NOTES: Encoder receiver transmitter (ERT) is a trademark of Itron, Inc.The information below is based upon Grid Insight's independent research. It is offered here without warranty. Itron's encoder receiver transmitter (ERT) technology was originally developed in Minneapolis by Itron's predecessor company, EnScan. Itron phased out manufacturing of the series 45 add-on modules and began focusing its attention on the its Centron C1S meters. One ERT-equipped version of this model is called the C1SR, and was sold originally under the Schlumberger brand name until Itron completed the acquisition of Schlumberger.
Itron Inc. is a technology and services company dedicated to the resourceful use of energy and water. Itron corporate headquarters is based in Liberty Lake, Washington (state) . They provide comprehensive solutions that measure, manage and analyze energy and water. Itron has over 8,000 customers in more than 100 countries and they are dedicated to helping manage energy and water resources.
Description. Itron, Inc. (Itron) is a technology and service company, offering metering solutions to electric, natural gas, and water utilities around the world. The Company provides solutions that measure, manage, and analyze energy and water use. More from FactSet ». Itron, Inc. (Itron) is a technology and service company, offering metering solutions to electric, natural gas, and water utilities around the world.
Remember Choice. Itron is a world-leading technology and services company dedicated to the resourceful use of energy and water. We provide comprehensive solutions that measure, manage and analyze energy and water. Our broad product portfolio helps utilities responsibly and efficiently manage our precious resources. 
The first thing that one must realize is that both ITRON and T-Engine provide a set of specifications for real-time and embedded systems. The specifications are agreed on by a set of members and are released to members and the public. Therefore, there are a number of technical enhancements in the T-Kernel. However, there are a few important differences between ITRON and T-Kernel. The main differences between T-Kernel and ITRON are as follows: 1  Specification versus Source: In terms of deliverables from the T-Engine Forum, ITRON is only a specification.
However, there is a big difference in what they specify. In the case of ITRON, the specifications are for a hard real-time operating system (RTOS). On the other hand, the T-Engine specifications cover a much larger set of items – in simple terms, it is said that the T-Engine is an. . Therefore, there are a number of technical enhancements in the T-Kernel. However, there are a few important differences between ITRON and T-Kernel. The main differences between T-Kernel and ITRON are as follows: 1  Specification versus Source: In terms of deliverables from the T-Engine Forum, ITRON is only a specification.
Page Content. Itron is a world-leading technology and services company dedicated to the resourceful use of energy and water. We provide comprehensive solutions that measure, manage and analyze energy and water. 
Itron Inc. is a leading technology provider to the global energy and water industries. Our company is the world’s leading provider of metering, data collection and utility software solutions, with nearly 8,000 utilities worldwide relying on our technology to optimize the delivery and use of energy and water. 3 Executive Summary The OpenWay ® by Itron system was designed to meet the ever-changing requirements for advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) and smart grid initiatives in the energy and utility industries—industries Itron has served for over 25 years as a true market leader.