Under current UK law, a child can leave home with their  parent/guardians' consent at the age of 16+ (the child does not  need consent if they are leaving an abusive situati … on). Once the  child has turned 18, they are considered an adult and can then move  out at any time. In Montana, a child must be 18 years old to be able to move out. However, if a child wants to move out before the age of 18, they can become emancipated, which requires filing … a petition in family court. To do that, it is best for the child to meet with a family lawyer who knows what to do.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I was told it was the age of 14. As long as you and the mother agree, along with the grandparents, it's legal for your 15 year old to live with them. If you feel better, you could go to court and give them temporary custody, in case they have to take the child/teen to the doctors. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Although the age of majority in Texas is 18, you can be 17 when you can legally leave your parents' home in Texas. Kelle, yet again is wrong and doesn't know what she is talking about. Source(s): I am a juvenile corrections officer in MO with similar laws. Zach · 5 years ago. 
1 choose which parent to live with-at age 16 a young person can usually decide which parent to live with if their parents are separated, and decide whether/when to visit the other parent. 2  choose to leave home-at age 16 a young person can leave home without their parents' consent. 1 Generally the law allows parents to leave a young person without supervision from age 14 - however, leaving a child unsupervised for an unreasonable period of time in a way that puts them at risk of harm could be considered neglect.
The law on leaving your child on their own. The law doesn’t say an age when you can leave a child on their own, but it’s an offence to leave a child alone if it places them at risk. Use your judgement on how mature your child is before you decide to leave them alone, eg at home or in a car. 
What age can a child legally leave home?   Answer     i believe that you can leave home when you are 18 years of age unless you get emancipated which you have to go to court and have it be approved by a … judge then you can do what you want. Answer   A person can legally leave home at 16 years old with the parent assent or by himself at the age of 18 years old.
Please watch your kids. The legal age when you can leave a kid home is 12. But that is the legal requirement, parents should always think twice before leaving a small kid in the hands of a 12 year old. 12 year old is still a small kid and giving a responsibility of a an even younger kid to a 12 year can be dangerous. These states do not set a specific age after which a child legally can stay home alone but do provide recommendations. I have to say that I am surprised by the lack of official age restrictions in most states. And for the states that do, there is a very wide range of ages: 8-14.
1 choose to leave home-at age 16 a young person can leave home without their parents' consent. 2  But until 17, Child, Youth and Family can send the child home if they believe they're at risk. 3  get married or enter into a civil union with parents' consent-age 16. 4  be legally independent of my guardianship-age 18. 1 Generally the law allows parents to leave a young person without supervision from age 14 - however, leaving a child unsupervised for an unreasonable period of time in a way that puts them at risk of harm could be considered neglect.
Answer   The legal age in California to leave a child home is 9 years old.   Answer   There is no legal age set for leaving a child home in California, but there … are guidelines. In Montana, a child must be 18 years old to be able to move out. However, if a child wants to move out before the age of 18, they can become emancipated, which requires filing … a petition in family court. To do that, it is best for the child to meet with a family lawyer who knows what to do.
1 But until 17, Child, Youth and Family can send the child home if they believe they're at risk. 2  get married or enter into a civil union with parents' consent-age 16. 3  be legally independent of my guardianship-age 18. 1 Generally the law allows parents to leave a young person without supervision from age 14 - however, leaving a child unsupervised for an unreasonable period of time in a way that puts them at risk of harm could be considered neglect.