It is possible, though perhaps unlikely, that among the remaining giant tortoises of the Galapagos Galápagos, islands there exists an-old timer that was a hatchling at the time Of Charles'darwin s famous visit in. 1835 giant tortoises are the-longest lived of all, vertebrates averaging over 100. years The oldest on record lived to be 152. They are also the world's largest tortoises, with some specimens exceeding 5 feet (1.5 meters) in length and reaching 550 pounds (250 kilograms). There are now only 11 types of giant tortoises left in the Galapagos, galápagos down from 15 When darwin. arrived
up to 4 feet long. There are many subspecies of giant tortoises that are found on different islands and have different appearances. Those that live on the larger islands where there is more rain have “dome” shaped shells, while those that live in drier conditions are smaller tortoises and have a “saddleback” shell. On June 24, 2012, the world-famous giant tortoise affectionately known as “Lonesome George” passed away.
Turtles and tortoises are some of the most long-lived members of the reptile family. Even small species that are typically kept as pets, like box turtles and terrapins, live between 30 and 40 years if they're kept healthy. Larger species such as sea turtles are estimated to live about 80 years. The giant tortoise, the largest of all land turtles, typically lives at least a century. Theories. There is no hard and fast answer for why turtles and tortoises live so long. There are, however, a few theories, including the slow rate of their metabolisms, naturally healthy lifestyles and evolutionary theories regarding reproduction.
Giant tortoises originally made their way to islands from the mainland; for example, Aldabra Atoll and Mascarenes giant tortoises are related to Madagascar tortoises while Galapagos giant tortoises are related to Ecuador mainland tortoises. Aldabra giant tortoises reproduce and lay up to 25 rubbery eggs between February and May. Mating is a noisy process, with the males bellowing like a bull, and chasing after the females. During copulation, the male’s tail guides his penis into position to fertilize the female, with copulation lasting for 10–15 minutes.
Giant tortoises are the longest-lived of all vertebrates, averaging over 100 years. The oldest on record lived to be 152. They are also the world's largest tortoises, with some specimens exceeding 5 feet (1.5 meters) in length and reaching 550 pounds (250 kilograms). There are now only 11 types of giant tortoises left in the Galapagos, galápagos down from 15 When darwin. arrived
There are now only 11 types of giant tortoises left in the Galapagos, galápagos down from 15 When darwin. Arrived hunted as food by, pirates, whalers and merchantmen during the, 17th, 18th and 19th, centuries more 100,000 100000 tortoises are estimated to have been killed. off The oldest on record lived to be 152. They are also the world's largest tortoises, with some specimens exceeding 5 feet (1.5 meters) in length and reaching 550 pounds (250 kilograms). There are now only 11 types of giant tortoises left in the Galapagos, galápagos down from 15 When darwin. arrived
The Galapagos Giant Tortoise can live for more than 100 years, the oldest recorded tortoise being 152 years old. The Giant Tortoises are thought to belong to just one species, Geochelone elephantopus, with 14 different races or sub-species, four of which are believed to be extinct. The Galapagos Giant Tortoise is probably the best well known animal of the Galapagos Isles. Galapagos Giant Tortoises keep growing until they are about 40 – 50 years old and can reach a weight of 500 pounds.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Giant Tortoise are characteristic reptiles that are found on two groups of tropical islands: the Aldabra Atoll in Seychelles and the Galapagos Islands in Ecuador. These tortoises can weigh as much as 300 kg (660 lb) and can grow to be 1.3 m (4 ft 3 in) long. Aldabra giant tortoises reproduce and lay up to 25 rubbery eggs between February and May. Mating is a noisy process, with the males bellowing like a bull, and chasing after the females. During copulation, the male’s tail guides his penis into position to fertilize the female, with copulation lasting for 10–15 minutes.
Introduction Giant tortoises are reptiles that live in tropical countries. These tortoises are believed to be one of the few ancient reptiles that lived till modern days. Anal … ysis from fossils indicates that they might be 250 million years old. Answer to the question.... They weigh up to 500 lbs. or more. 