A blood gas analysis is ordered when someone has symptoms of an oxygen/carbon dioxide or pH imbalance, such as difficulty breathing, shortness of breath, nausea, or vomiting. It may also be ordered when someone is known to have a respiratory, metabolic, or kidney disease and is experiencing respiratory distress. Abnormal results of any of the blood gas components may indicate one or more of the following issues: 1  A person is not getting enough oxygen. 2  A person is not getting rid of enough carbon dioxide.
Your physician may order a test known as a blood gas analysis or arterial blood gas (ABG) test to determine your levels. This test requires collecting a small amount of blood from an artery and reading the results within 10 minutes. Identifying imbalances in your pH and blood gas levels can provide an early warning about how your body is handling illness. Your physician may order a blood gas analysis if he or she suspects you are experiencing any of the following conditions: 1  lung disease. 2  kidney disease. 3  metabolic disease.
Blood gas analysis give a snapshot of a person's blood pH and O 2 and CO 2 content. The following components can be determined by blood gas analysis: 1  pH. 2  A measure of the balance of acids and bases in the blood. 3  Increased amounts of carbon dioxide and other acids can cause blood pH to decrease (become acidic). 
Why It Is Done. An arterial blood gas (ABG) test is done to: 1  Check for severe breathing problems and lung diseases, such as asthma, cystic fibrosis, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) . 2  See how well treatment for lung diseases is working. 3  Find out if you need extra oxygen or help with breathing (mechanical ventilation). As blood passes through your lungs, oxygen moves into the blood while carbon dioxide moves out of the blood into the lungs. An ABG test uses blood drawn from an artery, where the oxygen and carbon dioxide levels can be measured before they enter body tissues. An ABG measures: 1  Partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2).
Arterial Blood Gases. Guide. An arterial blood gas (ABG) test measures the acidity (pH) and the levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood from an artery. This test is used to check how well your lungs are able to move oxygen into the blood and remove carbon dioxide from the blood. As blood passes through your lungs, oxygen moves into the blood while carbon dioxide moves out of the blood into the lungs. An ABG test uses blood drawn from an artery, where the oxygen and carbon dioxide levels can be measured before they enter body tissues. An ABG measures: 1  Partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2).
Blood gas analysis is performed on blood from an artery. It measures the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood, as well as oxygen content, oxygen saturation, bicarbonate content, and blood pH. blood gas analysis, transcutaneous the determination of P O 2 and P CO 2 by placement of a heated electrode over the skin to get an inference of Pa O 2 and Pa CO 2. blood group the phenotype of erythrocytes defined by one or more cellular antigenic structural groupings under the control of allelic genes.
How to Interpret Blood Gas Results. An arterial blood gas analysis is used by doctors to measure the partial levels of carbon dioxide, oxygen and the pH in a blood sample. This test can help monitor several conditions that can cause serious health complications. This article will tell you how to interpret blood gas results. Inspect the PO2 number in your blood gas test results. This is the amount of oxygen that is dissolved in the blood. The normal PO2 level should be between 80 to 100 mmHg. If they are below limits, there is evidence of hypoxemia, therefore, no compensation is done to restore the pH balance.
blood gas analysis, mixed venous blood gas analysis performed on a blood sample obtained from the pulmonary artery. blood gas analysis, transcutaneous the determination of P O 2 and P CO 2 by placement of a heated electrode over the skin to get an inference of Pa O 2 and Pa CO 2. blood group the phenotype of erythrocytes defined by one or more cellular antigenic structural groupings under the control of allelic genes.
An arterial blood gas (ABG) is a blood test that is performed using blood from an artery. It involves puncturing an artery with a thin needle and syringe and drawing a small volume of blood. The blood can also be drawn from an arterial catheter. Pulse oximetry plus transcutaneous carbon dioxide measurement is an alternative method of obtaining similar information as well. An ABG is a test that measures the arterial oxygen tension (PaO 2), carbon dioxide tension (PaCO 2), and acidity (pH).
Blood gas analysis, also called arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis, is a test which measures the amounts of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood, as well as the acidity (pH) of the blood. blood gas analysis, transcutaneous the determination of P O 2 and P CO 2 by placement of a heated electrode over the skin to get an inference of Pa O 2 and Pa CO 2. blood group the phenotype of erythrocytes defined by one or more cellular antigenic structural groupings under the control of allelic genes.