Trichomoniasis. Trichomoniasis, sometimes called trich (pronounced trick), is a common sexually transmitted infection (STI) that affects both females and males, but symptoms are more common in females. Trichomoniasis is caused by the single-celled protozoan parasite, Trichomonas vaginalis. The vagina is the most common site of infection in girls and women, and the urethra (urine canal) is the most common site of infection in boys and men
Trichomonas vaginalis is a tiny parasite which causes an infection. In women the infection can be found in the vagina and the urethra (tube where urine comes out). In men it can be found in the urethra. The infection is easily passed from one person to another through sexual contact. 
Trichomonas is a one-celled animal that is found in the vagina, urinary tract, and intestines of women, and in the urinary tract and intestines of men. It may or may not cause symptoms and usually does not pose a health threat. Vaginal infections caused by trichomonas are primarily passed through sexual contact. 
The vagina is the most common site of infection in women, and the urethra (urine canal) is the most common site of infection in men. The parasite is sexually transmitted through penis-to-vagina intercourse or vulva-to-vulva (the genital area outside the vagina) contact with an infected partner. Infection with trichomonas (trichomoniasis) is the most common curable sexually transmitted disease (STD) in young sexually active women.) in young sexually active women. The species of trichomonas responsible for STD is Trichomonas vaginalis
The test is used to diagnose an infection with the parasite Trichomonas vaginalis (T. vaginalis). Secretions from the vagina (for women) or urethra (for men) are tested by one of the following methods: 1  Wet prep. 
2 3 Trichomonas vaginalis Trichomonas vaginalis is a sexually transmitted infection (STI). It is sometimes referred to as trichomonas or trichomoniasis, or shortened to TV. In this booklet the term trichomonas is used. This booklet gives you information about trichomonas, what you can do if you are worried that you might have the infection and advice on how to protect yourself.
The test is used to diagnose an infection with the parasite Trichomonas vaginalis (T. vaginalis). Secretions from the vagina (for women) or urethra (for men) are tested by one of the following methods: 1  Wet prep. If someone is infected, their sexual partner(s) should also be tested and treated as well. A negative test means either there is no infection with T. vaginalis or the parasite was not able to be detected in the sample using the method performed.
Trichomoniasis (or “trich”) is a very common sexually transmitted disease (STD) that is caused by infection with a protozoan parasite called Trichomonas vaginalis. Although symptoms of the disease vary, most women and men who have the parasite cannot tell they are infected. Back to Top. 
Trichomonas vaginalis is a tiny parasite which causes an infection. In women the infection can be found in the vagina and the urethra (tube where urine comes out). In men it can be found in the urethra. The infection is easily passed from one person to another through sexual contact. It is sometimes referred to as trichomonas or trichomoniasis, or shortened to TV. In this booklet the term trichomonas is used. This booklet gives you information about trichomonas, what you can do if you are worried that you might have the infection and advice on how to protect yourself.