Antiviral drugs are a type of medication used specifically for treating viral infections. They act by killing or preventing the growth of viruses. Borders. Oseltamivir (Tamiflu) and Zanamivir (Relenza) are two types of antiviral medications used against the flu virus. You may have been advised to take one of these. 
Genital herpes is an infection of the genitals (penis in men, vulva and vagina in women) and surrounding area of skin. It is caused by the herpes simplex virus. Antiviral medicines such as aciclovir, famciclovir, and valaciclovir are used to treat genital herpes infection. They do not clear the virus completely from the body, so the symptoms may come back (recur). They work by stopping the herpes virus from multiplying. They do not clear the virus from the body. If an antiviral medicine is started early in an episode of symptoms, it tends to reduce the severity and duration of symptoms during an episode of genital herpes.
Antiviral drugs. Antiviral drugs are medicines that cure or control virus infections. There are several different drugs in the antiviral family, and each is used for specific kinds of viral infections. Other types of antiviral drugs, such as amantadine (Symmetrel) and rimantadine (Flumadine) are used to prevent or treat certain kinds of influenza (flu).They are given either alone or in combination with flu shots. Still another class of drugs, antiretroviral drugs, targets a specific type of virus calleda retrovirus.
When used for treatment, antiviral drugs can lessen symptoms and shorten the time you are sick by 1 or 2 days. They also can prevent serious flu complications, like pneumonia. Antiviral drugs are a second line of defense to treat the flu if you get sick. A flu vaccine is still the first and best way to prevent influenza.
Antivirals are medications that help fight flu, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. They're available only with a prescription from a health care professional. Antiviral drugs work against viruses; they don't fight bacteria like antibiotics do. The two antivirals used as flu treatments are oseltamivir phosphate (Tamiflu) and zanamivir (Relenza). 
Antiviral drugs are a class of medication used specifically for treating viral infections. Like antibiotics for bacteria, specific antivirals are used for specific viruses. Unlike most antibiotics, antiviral drugs do not destroy their target pathogen; instead they inhibit their development. Most of the antiviral drugs now available are designed to help deal with HIV, herpes viruses, the hepatitis B and C viruses, and influenza A and B viruses.
Some side effects have been associated with the use of flu antiviral drugs, including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, runny or stuffy nose, cough, diarrhea, headache and some behavioral side effects. These are uncommon. Antiviral drugs are a second line of defense to treat the flu if you get sick. A flu vaccine is still the first and best way to prevent influenza.
Antiviral drugs are one class of antimicrobials, a larger group which also includes antibiotic (also termed antibacterial), antifungal and antiparasitic drugs, or antiviral drugs based on monoclonal antibodies. Most antivirals are considered relatively harmless to the host, and therefore can be used to treat infections. Most of the antiviral drugs now available are designed to help deal with HIV, herpes viruses, the hepatitis B and C viruses, and influenza A and B viruses.