Working with the Arrow Edit. Felicity and John Diggle traveled to Lian Yu in order to find Oliver Queen. In the process, she chartered a rickety airplane that she inevitably jumped out of and eventually stepped on a land mine, which Oliver saved her from by swinging from a tree using a rope arrow.
Diehard Arrow fans have been dreading this week's episode, Broken Arrow, for a while now, ever since Stephen Amell and Colton Haynes solemnly tweeted about filming a particularly tough goodbye scene for it in early March: Sometimes real feelings creep into a scene.
Based on actor Stephen Amell's recent cryptic 'goodbye' tweet, the producers' latest statements and actress Emily Bett Rickard's reaction to the who dies question, it seems quite likely that Arrow season 3 will end with the death of Oliver's love interest-Felicity.
I think it is set up to look like Felicity because of the tears and Barry’s presence which is why I don’t think it is Felicity. Barry’s presence could be because he was involved in whatever incident has taken place that brought about the death and not necessarily because he has an attachment to the person who died.
Arrow gave its fans a collective heart attack with a shocking jaw-dropper in the final moments of the season four premiere: One of the characters will die, and it will stick. The show broke tradition, flash-forwarding six months and settling on a cemetery just outside of Star City for the episode’s last scene.
Felicity Megan Smoak (born 1989) is the daughter of Mr. Smoak, and Donna Smoak. Felicity is a former member of Team Arrow, former vice president of Palmer Technologies, and Oliver Queen's former executive assistant. Following the defeat of Ra's al Ghul, Felicty and Oliver left Starling City to begin a new life together.
Felicity helped Oliver put it on, becoming the first person to see him as The Arrow. When asked how he looked, Felicity told him that he looked like a hero. Felicity had gone to Central City to stay with Barry Allen, who was in a coma.
Felicity Smoak (Rickards). The promo for this week's episode contains a glimpse of the much-anticipated Felicity and Oliver hook-up, which, by horror movie rules, doesn't put Felicity at great odds to survive. However, Felicity is a fan favorite, and Arrow isn't Scream.