Treat Nausea. One of the most recognized benefits of ginger tea is its ability to relieve nausea. A cup of tea before the traveling can prevent nausea and vomiting. Ginger tea is excellent for pregnant women who have problems with morning sickness. Always drink a cup of ginger tea once you feel the first signs of nausea. In the traditional Chinese medicine ginger tea (and some brown sugar added) is used to relieve menstrual cramps. Women who often experience severe menstrual cramps should apply some warm ginger tea compresses. Soak a small towel in some hot ginger tea and place it on the stomach.
10 Health Benefits of Ginger Tea. Last updated on August 6, 2012. Ginger root is a common culinary spice that has also been used medicinally for thousands of years. Ginger tea is made from ginger steeped in hot water. It offers a spicy, stimulating flavor and great nutritional value. Here are 10 health benefits of ginger tea: Heart Health. Ginger tea may help reduce the risk of blocked arteries, a common cause of heart attacks and cardiovascular disease. 
This will help you make a very flavorful ginger tea. Boil the ginger in water for at least 10 minutes. For a stronger and tangier tea, allow to boil for 20 minutes or more, and use more slices of ginger. You really can't over do it, so feel free to add as much ginger and simmer it for as long as you want. 
To make a good ginger tea, all you need is fresh ginger and filtered water. The rest of the ingredients are optional, but it might taste better with a little honey in it, as well a splash of fresh lemon juice. 
Ginger is not often used by the majority of Americans, even though it commonly appears in the kitchens of countries across the globe. With so many healthy properties to it, it makes sense to start adding this to more of your dishes, or to start brewing a daily glass of ginger tea. Ginger tea has several health benefits. Ginger tea has some effect against cancer because it inhibits the formation or action of cancer causing substance. Recent research indicates that tea may work against attacks, stoke and thrombosis.
Ginger (Zingiber officinale Roscoe) is a flowering plant in the family Zingiberaceae whose rhizome, ginger root or simply ginger, is widely used as a spice or a folk medicine. It is a herbaceous perennial which grows annual stems about a meter tall bearing narrow green leaves and yellow flowers. Fresh, as well as dried, ginger is used to spice tea and coffee, especially in winter. Ginger powder is used in food preparations intended primarily for pregnant or nursing women, the most popular one being katlu, which is a mixture of gum resin, ghee, nuts, and sugar.
It can be used fresh, dried and powdered, or as a juice or oil. Ginger is commonly used to treat various types of “ stomach problems,” including motion sickness, morning sickness, colic, upset stomach, gas, diarrhea, nausea caused by cancer treatment, nausea and vomiting after surgery, as well as loss of appetite. In foods and beverages, ginger is used as a flavoring agent. In manufacturing, ginger is used as for fragrance in soaps and cosmetics. One of the chemicals in ginger is also used as an ingredient in laxative, anti-gas, and antacid medications.
Ginger tea can ease inflammation of the joints, which is commonly referred to as rheumatoid arthritis. It is also effective in alleviating tired, sore muscles and joints. A warm ginger tea soak can lessen swelling and puffiness. Ginger is brown, fleshy, and has a pungent smell and a scorching taste. It is valued for its wondrous qualities that help cure a number of common diseases. Best consumed as tea, ginger is a perfect source of a number of vitamins and minerals such as vitamin C and magnesium.
Other uses include pain relief from arthritis or muscle soreness, menstrual pain, upper respiratory tract infections, cough, and bronchitis. Ginger is also sometimes used for chest pain, low back pain, and stomach pain. Some people pour the fresh juice on their skin to treat burns. The oil made from ginger is sometimes applied to the skin to relieve pain. In foods and beverages, ginger is used as a flavoring agent. In manufacturing, ginger is used as for fragrance in soaps and cosmetics. One of the chemicals in ginger is also used as an ingredient in laxative, anti-gas, and antacid medications.
Digestion and Morning Sickness. Ginger ale is a go-to drink for many people’s digestive upsets, but ginger tea is a healthier option that can be just as effective. It’s a simple yet soothing home remedy for nausea and other digestive symptoms, such as when your digestive system just feels unsettled. 