To change your default search engine in Google Chrome: Click the Chrome menu icon (at the top right corner of Google Chrome) select Settings, in the Search section click Manage Search Engines..., remove  Trovi Search  and add or select your preferred domain. Change homepage: Click the Chrome menu icon (at the top right corner of Google Chrome) select Settings. In On startup section click set pages, hover your mouse over Trovi.com and click the x symbol. Now you can add your preferred website as your homepage.
1 STEP 1. Uninstall Search Protect application using Control Panel. 2  STEP 2. 3  Remove Trovi.com redirect from Internet Explorer. 4  STEP 3. Remove Trovi.com browser hijacker from Google Chrome. 5  STEP 4. Remove Trovi.com homepage and default search engine from Mozilla Firefox. Change homepage: Click the Chrome menu icon (at the top right corner of Google Chrome) select Settings. In On startup section click set pages, hover your mouse over Trovi.com and click the x symbol. Now you can add your preferred website as your homepage.
Trovi.com/lab.trovi.com changes the default homepage and search-engine of Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome without your permission.Once installed Trovi will change your browser homepage and default search engine to http ://www.trovigo.com, lab.trovi.com or www.trovi.com. 
Remove Trovi.com from Google Chrome. 1  Open Chrome and click the Chrome menu on the browser toolbar. 2  Select Settings. 3  In the Search section, click Manage search engine. 4  Check if (Default) is displayed next to your preferred search engine. 5  If not, mouse over it and click Make default. 1 Open Chrome and click the Chrome menu on the browser toolbar. 2  Select Settings. 3  In the Search section, click Manage search engine. 4  Check if (Default) is displayed next to your preferred search engine. 5  If not, mouse over it and click Make default.
by News Editor on July 31st, 2015 in Security Tips. If your default search engine was changed and your browser keeps redirecting you to http://trovigo.com that means your browser was hijacked with Trovi Search. It is able to become the startup page of your web browser via modifying browser settings. No matter which browser you are using (Internet Explorer, Safari, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox or Opera), you can see the browser is occupied by it completely. To protect your homepage in the future download Web Companion. The Trovi Search is a Browser Helper Object that injects itself into users' Internet browsers
Trovi.com is a browser hijacker that can infect most of the popular web browsers, including Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome. Once installed, it will add plugin and extensions to your web browser, and change the homepage, startup page and new tab page to Trovi .com. 2. To change homepage: hit Change →change homepage to google.com or any other webs you desire. 3. To reset default search engine: click on Manage search engine → set a desired search engine as your default search engine → remove any unwanted and suspicious search engine from the list. 4.
Re: I can't get trovi.com/bing search off of my browser. I only want google chrome. John1865. 6/9/14 9:14 PM. Sorry to hear that! Browser redirect virus of trovi.com can spread into your machine in many ways. Please follow the removal guide to get rid of it and other hidden adware programs or PUPs. If your issue is not there, please provide a detailed description here : I DID A SPELLING GAME ON THE GOOGLE SEARCH BAR BY THE FELING LUCKY AND IT SWITCHED MY SEARCH ENGINE TO TROVIE.COM & ALSO BING SEARCH. I HAVE TRIE EVERYTHING AND I CAN'T GET IT OFF MY COMPUTER.
If you can't remove trovi.com, follow the step-by-step instruction. This video is a guide how to delete trovi.com from PC and browser (Firefox, IE, Chrome) manually. Recommended removal tool: http://pcfixhelp.net/removal-tool. Text guide: http://pcfixhelp.net/ads/5-trovi-sear... What is trovi.com. 
Remove malicious extensions from Google Chrome: Change homepage: Click the Chrome menu icon (at the top right corner of Google Chrome) select Settings. In On startup section click set pages, hover your mouse over Trovi.com and click the x symbol. Now you can add your preferred website as your homepage.