Answer   An oxymoron (plural oxymora or oxymorons) (noun) is a figure of speech that combines two normally contradictory terms (e.g. deafening silence jumbo shrimp … ). 
Report Abuse. An oxymoron (plural oxymora or, more commonly, oxymorons) (noun) is a figure of speech that combines two normally contradictory terms (e.g. deafening silence) to make a point. Oxymoron is a Greek term derived from oxy (sharp) and moros (dull or dumb), which means the word is an oxymoron. Another, similar oxymoron is sophomore, meaning wise fool. Oxymorons are a proper subset of the expressions called contradiction in terms. Oxymoron is a Greek term derived from oxy (sharp) and moros (dull). The meaning is that which is sharp and dull, thereby designating and also exhibiting an opposition between two adjectives which serve as predicates for one subject. Oxymorons are a proper subset of the expressions called contradictions in terms.
It has nothing to do with ones intelligence. You girlfriend does not know what it means or she would not call you that. An oxymoron (plural oxymora or, more commonly, oxymorons) (noun) is a figure of speech that combines two normally contradictory terms. I have never heard this used as an insult before, saying that a person is an oxymoron. I have included a link for the direct definition and a link for a list of popular oxymorons. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxymoron http://www.oxymoronlist.com/.
Best Answer: an oxymoron is a contradiction of sorts...it means you use two words that contradict each other.. such as it's a pretty ugly day pretty is normally used to describe something beautiful and ugly well self explanatory. I have never heard this used as an insult before, saying that a person is an oxymoron. I have included a link for the direct definition and a link for a list of popular oxymorons. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxymoron http://www.oxymoronlist.com/.
Report Abuse. An oxymoron (plural oxymora (greek plural) or, more often, oxymorons) (sharply dull in Greek) is a figure of speech that combines normally contradictory terms.
It is important to understand the difference between a paradox and an oxymoron. A paradox may consist of a sentence or even a group of sentences. An oxymoron, on the other hand, is a combination of two contradictory or opposite words. A paradox seems contradictory to the general truth but it does contain an implied truth. An oxymoron, however, may produce a dramatic effect but does not make sense.
An oxymoron (plural oxymora or, more commonly, oxymorons) (noun) is a figure of speech that combines two normally contradictory terms. Oxymoron is a Greek term derived from oxy (sharp) and moros (dull). The meaning is that which is sharp and dull, thereby designating and also exhibiting an opposition between two adjectives which serve as predicates for one subject. Oxymorons are a proper subset of the expressions called contradictions in terms.
Definition. An oxymoron is a figure of speech in which incongruous or seemingly contradictory terms appear side by side; a compressed paradox. Plural: oxymora or oxymorons. Adjective: oxymoronic or oxymoric. The Oxford English Dictionary defines oxymoron as an expression [that] in its superficial or literal meaning [is] self-contradictory or absurd, but involving a point..
Oxymoron, ehich is a greek word, means a way of speaking about something which is exactly the opposite, or it is used to describe an absurd and contradictory situation with a funny and ridiculous aspect. Eg. If you call a small doggy Tiger, that's an oxymoron. I have never heard this used as an insult before, saying that a person is an oxymoron. I have included a link for the direct definition and a link for a list of popular oxymorons. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxymoron http://www.oxymoronlist.com/.
Oxymoron Definition. Oxymoron, plural oxymora, is a figure of speech in which two opposite ideas are joined to create an effect. The common oxymoron phrase is a combination of an adjective proceeded by a noun with contrasting meanings e.g. “cruel kindness” or “living death”. An oxymoron, on the other hand, is a combination of two contradictory or opposite words. A paradox seems contradictory to the general truth but it does contain an implied truth. An oxymoron, however, may produce a dramatic effect but does not make sense.