Trivex vs. Polycarbonate. Even though Trivex has been available for a while now, there is still much debate and confusion about how Trivex and polycarbonate stack up against one another. We'll lay out the facts and attempt to put the question to rest. Summary. In summary, Trivex has the impact resistance and inherent UV protection of polycarbonate. With a lower index of refraction, Trivex may be slightly thicker than polycarbonate, but is lighter, and can be surfaced to the same 1mm center thickness.
Having eyewear that delivers continuous performance is essential to get the most out of life. Only Trivex lens material is an advanced technology that brings an unprecedented combination of crisp, clear vision, ultra-lightweight comfort, unsurpassed strength and protection to your patients’ lenses…and their lives. Trivex was originally developed for the military as “visual armor.” Trivex lenses not only passes the FDA impact resistance test at the usual 2.0 mm center thickness, it also passes the test at a 1.0 mm center thickness, making it stronger than the FDA requirement.
Trivex (Best for rimless frames) Lenses. Trivex lenses are a relatively new development in the lens world. Trivex lenses have a 1.53 index which makes them a bit thinner than regular plastic lenses, and a bit thicker than polycarbonate lenses. 
Trivex Lenses. Trivex was invented for the military as a polymer that is clearer and lighter than poly. The name Trivex was derived to reflect the combination of the three distinctive characteristics: excellent optics, impact resistance and its lightweight nature. 
Here is a brief comparison of polycarbonate and Trivex lenses to help you decide which lenses might be best for you: 1  Thickness. 2  Polycarbonate has a higher index of refraction than Trivex (1.58 vs. 1.53), so polycarbonate lenses are about 10 percent thinner than Trivex lenses. 3  Weight. 
Polycarbonate and Trivex Lenses are both materials for you to choose from when it comes to glasses. Anyone who wears glasses knows the difficulty of certain activities is increased because you must keep your glasses on your face while active. Trivex Lenses. Trivex lenses are made from a lightweight, impact-resistant material. It was developed in 2001 by PPG Industries as an alternative to polycarbonate. Trivex lenses are made from a urethane-based monomer.
Cost. Trivex eyeglasses are more expensive as anything is new and better. You have two options, trivex lenses and polycarbonate eyeglass lenses if you want impact resistant and comfortable lenses with UV protection for your eyes.
Trivex Lenses. Finding the right brand of eyeglasses can be difficult because of the overwhelming number of brands on the market and selecting the right lenses is an even more daunting task; there are well known frame brands and lens brands a wearer may never have heard of before. Trivex lenses are also impact resistant which make them perfect for children’s lenses, sports goggles, and safety glasses. One of the newer and more popular brands of High Index materials on the market today is Trivex available in Trilogy and PNX lenses.
Trivex material is True to Life. As the foundation of all eyewear, the lens material determines how well a lens will perform in real life situations. Being “True to Life” means that the lenses will provide just what your eyes need at any given moment. Trivex was originally developed for the military as “visual armor.” Trivex lenses not only passes the FDA impact resistance test at the usual 2.0 mm center thickness, it also passes the test at a 1.0 mm center thickness, making it stronger than the FDA requirement.
And then there’s Trivex lens material…. Trivex material provides the complete package of optical quality, lightweight comfort, strength and protection—the critical performance characteristics called for in everyday living. Trivex material is True to Life. As the foundation of all eyewear, the lens material determines how well a lens will perform in real life situations. Being “True to Life” means that the lenses you fit on your patients provide just what their eyes need at any given moment.