Opium is the dried paste that is secreted by the opium poppy plant. Opium contains up to 12% morphine, an alkaloid, which is frequently processed to produce heroin for the illegal drug trade. The latex paste also includes codeine and non-narcotic alkaloids such as papaverine, thebaine and noscapine.
An opioid or opiate, is a derivative of the opium poppy such as morphine, a depressant. There are also synthetic opioids such as oxycodone and semi synthetic opioids like hero … in, all of which are depressants. Opium is a depressant in all senses of the word. Opium is such a strong depressant if given to someone with low respiration or BP it will kill them.
Opium is a drug made from the poppy plant. Poppies grow in many different countries but most poppies today are used to make heroin and opium is much less popular than in was i … n the past. In the past opium was widely used for both medical and recreational purposes. Smoking opium is VERY addictive, as well as using it in ANY other way or form. Opiate medications are also VERY addictive, and should ONLY be used if prescribed by a doctor. I recommend that any one considering using opium, or any opiate drug, does NOT do it.
Opium is a non-synthetic drug. According to the DOJ, it is “extracted from the poppy plant, Papaver somniferum.” Opium itself is the dried latex that comes from the poppy seed. It is taken out, processed, and used recreationally by those looking to obtain its high. It can also be used to create other drugs. 
The primary component of opium is 12% morphine which is an alkaloid that is often processed chemically to produce illegal drugs such as heroin. Codeine and other non-narcotic alkaloids are also found in the latex that is derived from the opium poppy plant. Opium is the main component of morphine. Traditionally, opium was obtained from the latex of the poppy plant by scoring the seed pods by hand and allowing the latex to leak out and dry up. 
Opium is classified as a central-nervous depressant, containing phenanthrene alkaloids morphine, codeine, and to a lesser extent thebaine. In the United States, opium is listed as a Schedule II narcotic, outlawing sale, distribution and purchase by anyone. Opium has a history of many medical applications. Opium contains up to 12% morphine, an alkaloid, which is frequently processed to produce heroin for the illegal drug trade. The latex paste also includes codeine and non-narcotic alkaloids such as papaverine, thebaine and noscapine.
Opium (poppy tears, lachryma papaveris) is the dried latex obtained from the opium poppy (Papaver somniferum). Opium latex contains approximately 12% of the analgesic alkaloid morphine, which is processed chemically to produce heroin and other synthetic opioids for medicinal use and for the illegal drug trade. Opium trade became more regular by the 17th century, when it was mixed with tobacco for smoking, and addiction was first recognized. Prior to the arrival of the tobacco pipe, opium was only taken orally; when smoked, the drug has a far more potent effect, and its addictive effect is greatly magnified.
Heroin is a natural opiate made from morphine (opiates dull pain). Morphine is extracted from the opium poppy. Like many drugs made from opium, including synthetic opioids (e.g. methadone) heroin is a very strong painkiller. 'Street' heroin sold as 'brown' is sometimes used by clubbers as a chill out after a big night out. Smoking opium is VERY addictive, as well as using it in ANY other way or form. Opiate medications are also VERY addictive, and should ONLY be used if prescribed by a doctor. I recommend that any one considering using opium, or any opiate drug, does NOT do it.
Opium preparation is an opioid. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Opium is derived from the seed pod of a poppy plant. It works by increasing smooth muscle tone and decreasing fluid secretions in the intestines. This slows the movement of bowel matter through the intestines.
Opium – cont’d. Opium Overview Opium is a highly addictive non-synthetic narcotic that is extracted from the poppy plant, Papaver somniferum. The opium poppy is the key source for many narcotics, including morphine, codeine, and heroin. Legal status in the United States Opium is a Schedule II drug under the Controlled Substances Act. Most opioids are Schedule II, III, IV, or V drugs. Some drugs that are derived from opium, such as heroin, are Schedule I drugs. Common places of origin The poppy plant, Papaver somniferum, is the source of opium.