However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days  to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition  and nutritional health. Length of gestation is primarily an  inherited trait, but has nothing to do with the rate of maturity of  a certain breed or an individual animal. Since the Brahman is known to be the latest maturing breed of all cattle in North America, the typical gestation period for a Brahman cow would last from 290 to over 300 days … in length.
On average, the gestation period or length-of-pregnancy of a cow is  285 days long. This is similar to the pregnancy period of a woman,  which is closer to around 9 months o … r ~260 days. Since the Brahman is known to be the latest maturing breed of all cattle in North America, the typical gestation period for a Brahman cow would last from 290 to over 300 days … in length.
A cow carrying a calf a long time in one gestation is likely to do so in the next gestation. Some cows in this study had an average gestation period of 288 to 290 days, whereas others had a period of only 274 to 276 days, irrespective of the sex of the calf. The calf was a normal 84-pound heifer and the 278-day breeding date was used. One cow was observed to accept service during 2 out of 3 pregnancies included in this study. In the calculation of results, all abortions were excluded, as well as one gestation period of 322 days from the last-known service.
The gestation period for a cow is about nine months long. A newborn calf's size can vary among breeds, but a typical calf typically weighs 25 to 45 kg (55 to 99 lb). Adult size and weight vary significantly among breeds and sex. 1 In Australia, the term Japanese ox is used for grain-fed steers in the weight range of 500 to 650 kg that are destined for the Japanese meat trade. 2  In North America, draft cattle under four years old are called working steers.
Duration [edit]. For most species, the amount a fetus grows before birth determines the length of the gestation period. Smaller species normally have a shorter gestation period than larger animals. For example, a cat's gestation normally takes 58–65 days while an elephant's takes nearly 2 years (21 months). However, growth does not necessarily determine the length of gestation for all species, especially for those with a breeding season. Various other factors can come into play in determining the duration of gestation. For humans, male fetuses normally gestate several days longer than females and multiple pregnancies gestate for a shorter period. Ethnicity may also lengthen or shorten
During the period we have had the gestation length EPD, the average gestation length of the Gelbvieh breed has been reduced from 289 to 284 days. Virtually all of ourA.I. sired registered cattle go into the data bank. If a calf is born at 275 days gestation versus the breed average of 283, that cow will usually have an easier delivery and will automatically have an additional eight days postpartum interval advantage.”.
This is similar to the pregnancy period of a woman, which is closer to around 9 months or ~260 days. However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition and nutritional health. Gestation period is also controlled by genetics, but not rate of maturity
On average, the gestation period or length-of-pregnancy of a cow is 285 days long. This is similar to the pregnancy period of a woman, which is closer to around 9 months or ~2 … 60 days. However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition and nutritional health. Since the Brahman is known to be the latest maturing breed of all cattle in North America, the typical gestation period for a Brahman cow would last from 290 to over 300 days … in length.
This is similar to the pregnancy period of a woman,  which is closer to around 9 months o … r ~260 days.    However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days  to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition  and nutritional health. Length of gestation is primarily an  inherited trait, but has nothing to do with the rate of maturity of  a certain breed or an individual animal. However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition