It is open daily from 8 a.m. until sunset. Admission is $5 for vehicles carrying only one person and $8 for vehicles carrying up to 8 people.The former Silver River State Park is now part of Silver Springs State Park.
Silver Springs is located about 6 miles east of downtown Ocala. From the intersection of U.S. Highway 301 and State Road 40 in Ocala, drive east on State Road 40 (East Silver Springs Blvd) for 6.1 miles to the Main Entrance to Silver Springs State Park (on the right). In 2013, the State of Florida took over management of the headsprings area, combining it with the existing Silver River State Park to create the new Silver Springs State Park. The natural beauty of Silver Springs has attracted visitors from around the world since the mid-19th century. Silver Springs, one of the largest of Florida’s 33 first-magnitude springs, is made up of a group of springs that occur in the headwaters, coves, and edges of the Silver River
Silver River Museum Information. The Silver River Museum is located in the 5,000-acre Silver River State Park just east of Ocala. Open weekends from 9 to 5, and weekdays during June, July and most holidays. Admission is $6 per car to get into the State Park and $2 for the museum. The address is 1445 NE 58th Ave., Ocala FL 34470. Phone: (352) 236-5401. Website: http://www.silverrivermuseum.com.
There are three entrances to Silver Springs State Park. The Main Entrance is located on State Road 40 at 5656 E Silver Springs Blvd, Silver Springs, FL 34488. The Camping Entrance is located on State Road 35 at 1425 NE 58th Avenue, Ocala FL 34470. The third entrance is our Equestrian Entrance, also located on State Road 40, about 1.3 miles east of the SR 40 Main Entrance. PLEASE NOTE: Due to a sewer project in the campground area, reservations are not available between April 15, 2015 and August 30, 2015. Campsites and cabins will be available first come, first served. The Equestrian Entrance: Silver Springs State Parks horse trail traverses a wetland habitat.
Come experience Silver Springs State Park. Explore this central Florida destination that invites all guests to enjoy nature’s most charming attraction. Guests are welcome 9 AM – sunset, 365 days a year. Enjoy. Since the 19th century, Silver Springs has been one of Florida’s most treasured landscapes. As one of the largest artesian springs ever discovered, audiences have long been captured by the springs’ natural beauty and vibrant clarity.
This section of the park is also open from 8 a.m. until sunset and the entry fee covers admission to both parts of the new park.The entrance to Silver Springs is located just east of Ocala on State Road 40. The gate to the Silver River area of the park is on State Road 35, one mile south of State Road 40. Admission is $5 for vehicles carrying only one person and $8 for vehicles carrying up to 8 people.The former Silver River State Park is now part of Silver Springs State Park.
Silver Springs, one of the original Florida attractions, is now offering free admission to the public. The botanical park, which has long drawn visitors with their glass-bottom boat rides that offer views deep into the crystal clear artesian spring-fed waters, is a family favorite. Regular daily admission to the park was $34.99 for adults and is still charged on days when a concert is scheduled. Silver Springs is located at 5656 E. Silver Springs Blvd., near Ocala. For more information about Silver Springs, visit http://www.silversprings.com/tickets.html#ssa.
Silver Springs is a group of artesian springs that feed into the Silver River in Marion County, Florida. It is the largest artesian spring in the world and Florida's oldest tourist attraction. It is the largest artesian spring in the United States. Later in 1993, Florida Leisure Acquisition Corporation (FLAC) sold the land occupied by the Silver Springs and Wild Waters to the State of Florida, but continued to manage the parks under a long-term lease.