measure-you get a measurement of 2 1/2 feet. Measure it again and you get 2 1/2 feet. Measure it repeatedly and you consistently get a measurement of 2 1/2 feet. The tape measure yields reliable results. Validity refers to the extent we are measuring what we hope to measure (and what we think we are measuring). 
1 Validity The extent to which an assessmentinstrument measures what it is supposed tomeasure Reliability The consistency of assessment results Reliability is a necessary but not sufﬁcientcondition for validity. About validity. . . 9 Face Validity • Not technically a facet of validity, but refers toa test “appearing” to measure what it isdesigned to measure. • Content-based evidence of validity is acquiredthrough a systematic and technical analysis ofthe test content, face validity only involves thesuperﬁcial appearance of a test.
Construct validity is “the degree to which a test measures what it claims, or purports, to be measuring.” In the classical model of test validity, construct validity is one of three main types of validity evidence, alongside content validity and criterion validity. Convergent validity refers to the degree to which two measures of constructs that theoretically should be related, are in fact related. In contrast discriminant validity tests whether concepts or measurements that are supposed to be unrelated are, in fact, unrelated. Take, for example, a construct of general happiness.
Validity. The extent to which a test measures what it is supposed to measure. All tests are designed to measure something; hopefully something specific. If the test does indeed measure what it is intended to measure, then we can say that the test is --------. Split-Half Reliability. A measure of consistency where a test is split in two and the scores for each half of the test is compared with one another. If the test is consistent it leads the experimenter to believe that it is most likely measuring the same thing.
Face validity is the extent to which a test appears to measure what it is intended to measure. 1,2 This type of validity would be important if you are advocating for the universal use of a particular test by a clinical community. 1,2 There is no simple way to definitively establish the construct validity of an outcome measure. However, the question of whether a test actually measures what it is intended to measure for a particular purpose in a particular population is critical to selecting an appropriate
(in research) the extent to which a test measurement or other device measures what it is intended to measure. A data collection tool should accurately reflect the concept that it is intended to measure. Kinds of validity include construct validity, content validity, current validity, and predictive validity. The extent to which a measurement correctly measures what it is supposed to measure or to which extent the findings of an investigation reflect the truth. In health sciences, validity is commonly assessed by determining the sensitivity and specificity factors. See reliability; sensitivity; specificity. (vă-lid'i-tē).
VALIDITYI. VALIDITY-test measures what it is supposed to measure-What a test measures and how well it measures it-What may be inferred or predicted from a test scoreII. TYPES OF VALIDITYA.
Validity: Very simply, validity is the extent to which a test measures what it is supposed to measure. The question of validity is raised in the context of the three points made above, the form of the test, the purpose of the test and the population for whom it is intended. Construct validity is the degree to which a test measures an intended hypothetical construct. Many times psychologists assess/measure abstract attributes or constructs. The process of validating the interpretations about that construct as indicated by the test score is construct validation.