The best use of CEA is as a tumor marker, especially for cancers of the gastrointestinal tract. When the CEA level is abnormally high before surgery or other treatment, it is expected to fall to normal following successful surgery to remove all of the cancer. A rising CEA level indicates progression or recurrence of the cancer.
Carcinoembryonic Antigen Test (CEA). A carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test is a blood test used to help diagnose and manage certain types of cancers, especially cancer of the colon. The test measures the amount of CEA present in the blood. If you already have cancer, this test helps a doctor determine if the treatment for the cancer is working. An antigen is a harmful substance that is released by cancerous tumors.
Carcinoembryonic antigen blood test. Last reviewed: September 20, 2013. The CEA test measures the level of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in the blood. CEA is a protein normally found in the tissue of a developing baby in the womb. The blood level of this protein disappears or becomes very low after birth
The CEA test may be used: 1  To monitor the treatment of people diagnosed with colon cancer. 2  It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 3  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value. A CEA test may be used in combination with other tumor markers in the evaluation of cancer. Not all cancers produce CEA, and a positive CEA test is not always due to cancer. Therefore, CEA is not recommended for screening the general population.
CEA (carcinoembryonic antigen) and Ca 19-9 (Carbohydrate antigen 19-9) are two blood tests commonly used to follow patients with known cancers. CEA is a glycoprotein (sugar protein) present in embryonic tissues and in extracts from normal colonic washings. CA 19-9 is a modified blood group antigen (Lewis(a)). Neither test should be used as a cancer screening test of asymptomatic individuals. Although CEA and/or levels are often elevated in patients with gastrointestinal malignancies (colon, pancreas, etc), patients with confirmed cancers frequently have normal levels (in the range of healthy individuals).
It is important to note that a test that is positive for CEA may not always be indicative of cancers. It is due to this reason that this test is not used to screen for cancers. The CEA blood test normal range is from 0 to 2.5 micrograms per liter. In people who smoke regularly, this normal range is slightly increased. For them, the CEA blood test range is 0 to 5 micrograms per liter. Values slightly higher than this are accepted as normal. However, if the CEA values are considerably higher, further testing may be prescribed by the doctor to look for possible cancerous growths in the various parts of the body. 
CEA Bood Test is done to check for the return of colon and other cancers in people already diagnosed with cancer; it is not used as a screening test for cancer! To find out more about CEA Blood Test and to interpret your test results, go to MedSipo-Medical Tests Interpreter: http://medsipo.com/details/carcinoemb... 