Viral infections cause a variety of demyelinating diseases in animals and humans. Demyelinating diseases are defined as disorders of the central or peripheral nervous system with destruction of myelin and relative preservation of axons. The pathogenesis of the demyelination is different with different infections; these mechanisms range from direct infection and lysis of oligodendrocytes to immune destruction of myelin or supporting cells by cell-mediated immune responses, antibody, or cytokines (see Box 1-1).
Causes of Demyelination. Inflammation is the most common cause of myelin damage. Other causes include: 1  inflammation. 2  infection with certain viruses. 3  metabolic problems. 4  loss of oxygen. 5  physical compression. MS is a chronic disease where demyelination occurs in the white matter of the brain and in the spinal cord. In areas where myelin is under attack by the immune system, lesions or “plaques” form. These plaques are scar tissue. The name “sclerosis” means scar
Organophosphates, a class of chemicals which are the active ingredients in commercial insecticides such as sheep dip, weed-killers, and flea treatment preparations for pets, etc., will also demyelinate nerves. Neuroleptics can also cause demyelination. The demyelinating diseases of the peripheral nervous system include: 1  Guillain-Barre barré syndrome and its chronic, counterpart chronic inflammatory demyelinating. 2  Polyneuropathy-ANTI mag peripheral. 3  Neuropathy-Charcot-Marie Tooth.  disease
Demyelination is the breakdown of the protective covering of the nerve fibers in the spinal cord and brain. This protective covering, called a myelin sheath, helps promote proper nerve function. Demyelination is a condition known as demyelinating disease. There are several causes of demyelination. Myelin, found in the insulating white matter around the nerves, is an important part of the nerves. During transmission of information, myelin has the responsibility of receiving and interpreting the messages sent from the brain.
The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Demyelination. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Alzheimer's disease. 2  Multiple sclerosis. 3  Age related. 4  Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy-CIDP. 5  Organophosphates. 6  Guillain Barre syndrome. Other medical conditions listed in the Disease Database as possible causes of Demyelination as a symptom include: 1  Abetalipoproteinaemia. 2  Alexander disease. 3  Aspartylglucosaminuria. 4  Central pontine myelinosis. 5  Diffuse sclerosis of Schilder. 6  Familial Danish dementia. 7  Hereditary sensorimotor neuropathy type 3. 8  Levamisole.
Demyelination occurs when there is a breakdown of the protective covering of nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord. Multiple sclerosis is a common cause of demyelination. Physical therapy may be implemented as part of a comprehensive treatment plan for demyelination. There are several causes of demyelination. Myelin, found in the insulating white matter around the nerves, is an important part of the nerves. During transmission of information, myelin has the responsibility of receiving and interpreting the messages sent from the brain.
The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Demyelination. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Alzheimer's disease. 2  Multiple sclerosis. 3  Age related. 4  Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy-CIDP. 5  Organophosphates. 6  Guillain Barre syndrome. Other medical conditions listed in the Disease Database as possible causes of Demyelination as a symptom include: 1  Abetalipoproteinaemia. 2  Alexander disease. 3  Aspartylglucosaminuria. 4  Central pontine myelinosis. 5  Diffuse sclerosis of Schilder. 6  Familial Danish dementia. 7  Hereditary sensorimotor neuropathy type 3. 8  Levamisol