Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat noodle. Made of only kelp (a sea vegetable), sodium alginate (sodium salt extract from a brown seaweed), and water, Kelp Noodles are fat-free, gluten-free and very low in carbohydrates and calories.
1 Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat raw noodle. 2  Made of only kelp (a sea vegetable), sodium alginate (sodium salt extracted from a brown seaweed), and water, Kelp Noodles are fat-free, gluten-free, and very low in carbohydrates and calories. Just like spaghetti & 100 % RAW FOOD. Just like Chia Seeds, Kelp Noodles are one of our top sellers, and there's no question why! Healthful, delicious, easy to prepare and fun to eat-Kelp Noodles are.
1 Ready to eat. 2  Neutral taste. 3  Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat raw noodle. 4  Made of only kelp (a sea vegetable), sodium alginate (sodium salt extracted from a brown seaweed), and water, Kelp Noodles are fat-free, gluten-free, and very low in carbohydrates and calories. 1 Free of all allergens. 2  Ready to eat. 3  Neutral taste. 4  Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat raw noodle. 5
1 Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat raw noodle. 2  Made of only kelp (a sea vegetable), sodium alginate (sodium salt extracted from a brown seaweed), and water, Kelp Noodles are fat-free, gluten-free, and very low in carbohydrates and calories. 1 Free of all allergens. 2  Ready to eat. 3  Neutral taste. 4  Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat raw noodle. 5
1 Ready to eat. 2  Neutral taste. 3  Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat raw noodle. 4  Made of only kelp (a sea vegetable), sodium alginate (sodium salt extracted from a brown seaweed), and water, Kelp Noodles are fat-free, gluten-free, and very low in carbohydrates and calories. Just like spaghetti & 100 % RAW FOOD. Just like Chia Seeds, Kelp Noodles are one of our top sellers, and there's no question why! Healthful, delicious, easy to prepare and fun to eat-Kelp Noodles are.
Kelp Noodles. At only 20 calories a serving, kelp noodles are a low calorie, raw substitute for pasta. Kelp noodles are made from kelp (a brown seaweed), sodium alginate (a salt derived from seaweed), and water. Kelp is an edible seaweed that is high in nutrients. Kelp noodles can be used right out of the bag. Just rinse under water, pat dry and incorporate with your favorite sauces. They really have no taste so they pick up the flavor of what ever they are mixed with. The texture is mildly crunchy but surprisingly like an al dente pasta.
1 Neutral taste. 2  Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat raw noodle. 3  Made of only kelp (a sea vegetable), sodium alginate (sodium salt extracted from a brown seaweed), and water, Kelp Noodles are fat-free, gluten-free, and very low in carbohydrates and calories. 1 Free of all allergens. 2  Ready to eat. 3  Neutral taste. 4  Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat raw noodle. 5
KELP NOODLES. Kelp Noodles are a sea vegetable in the form of an easy to eat raw noodle. Made of only kelp (a sea vegetable), sodium alginate (sodium salt extracted from a brown seaweed), and water, Kelp Noodles are fat-free, gluten-free, and very low in carbohydrates and calories.
Kelp noodles are a trendy, low-carb, low-calorie food marketed as “raw, gluten, dairy and sugar free.” Made from kelp, an edible sea vegetable that anchors to the ocean floor these clear, crunchy “noodles” are praised for their health benefits. As the word “sodium” in sodium alginate suggests, this is a food that anyone on a sodium-restricted diet needs to be aware of. On the package of kelp noodles from a popular brand, there are 3 ingredients listed: kelp, water and sodium alginate.