A List of Definitions. Sound devices are resources used by poets to convey and reinforce the meaning or experience of poetry through the skillful use of sound. After all, poets are trying to use a concentrated blend of sound and imagery to create an emotional response. The words and their order should evoke images, and the words themselves have sounds, which can reinforce or otherwise clarify those images. All in all, the poet is trying to get you, the reader, to sense a particular thing, and the use of sound devices are some of the poet s tools.
Sound devices are resources used by poets to convey and reinforce the meaning or experience of poetry through the skillful use of sound. After all, poets are trying to use a c … oncentrated blend of sound and imagery to create an emotional response. Answer by Devion dennis. Confidence votes 37. Sound devices help set the mood in poetry. Things like alliteration and rhyme help poems to flow, euphony and cacophony let you know whether the mood of the poem is positive or negative, and much more. Even the way that a poem is written out, or how it's words are divided is a sound devices
SOUND IN POETRY. Sound-patterning is a feature of the great majority of poems, and only in the last few centuries have readers become accustomed to silently reading a printed text. Poems were previously written for performance, and only committed to print subsequently, if at all. Introduction
Sound poetry is an artistic form bridging literary and musical composition, in which the phonetic aspects of human speech are foregrounded instead of more conventional semantic and syntactic values; verse without words. By definition, sound poetry is intended primarily for performance. 
The following literary terms and devices may be used in poetry:alliteration-the repetition of the same consonant sound (usually at the beginnings) of several words. IE: He … hates hats.apostrophe-address to an person or personified object not present.assonance-the repetition of vowel sounds; similar to alliteration. Answer by Devion dennis. Confidence votes 37. Sound devices help set the mood in poetry. Things like alliteration and rhyme help poems to flow, euphony and cacophony let you know whether the mood of the poem is positive or negative, and much more. Even the way that a poem is written out, or how it's words are divided is a sound devices
Also, the particular sound or types of sounds which appear in a poem convey the meaning of the poem. For example, if a poem has repeated s sounds and mentions snakes, the sound of the words is evoking the imagery of the poem. In this way, the poet reinforces his or her imagery through the reading of the poem.
SOUND DEVICES USED IN POETRY. [i]Sound devices are resources used by poets to convey and reinforce the meaning or experience of poetry through the skillful use of sound. After all, poets are trying to use a concentrated blend of sound and imagery to create an emotional response. Poetic Sound Devices. [h1]{PAGETITLE}[/h1]. Sound devices are resources used by poets to convey and reinforce the meaning or experience of poetry through the skillful use of sound. After all, poets are trying to use a concentrated blend of sound and imagery to create an emotional response.
Sound: Rhythm & Rhyme. SOUND: Rhythm/Meter/Melody/Rhyme. You probably first read a poem to yourself, silently, but most poems also create sense though sounds, unlike concrete poetry, which operates visually. Try reading the poem aloud. 