•Use Ecoza topical foam exactly as your doctor tells you to use it. • Apply Ecoza topical foam to the affected skin areas of your feet 1 time a day for 4 weeks. • If Ecoza topical foam gets in or near your eyes, rinse them well with water. ● Wash your hands after you apply Ecoza topical foam. Ecoza topical foam is flammable. Avoid heat, flame, and smoking during and immediately. following application. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture and/or incinerate the containers. Do not expose containers to heat and/or store at temperatures above 120°F (49°C) even when. empty.
1 Apply Ecoza topical foam to the affected skin areas of your feet 1 time a day for 4 weeks. 2  If Ecoza topical foam gets in or near your eyes, rinse them well with water. 3  Wash your hands after you apply Ecoza topical foam. Gently rub the foam into the skin. (See Figure D). Figure D. Step 5: You should apply Ecoza topical foam to your toes, to the spaces between your toes, and to the surrounding areas 1 time a day for 4 weeks or as prescribed by your doctor. Step 6: Replace the cap. Wash your hands after applying
See the detailed Instructions for Use for information about how to use Ecoza topical foam. 1  Use Ecoza topical foam exactly as your doctor tells you to use it. 2  Apply Ecoza topical foam to the affected skin areas of your feet 1 time a day for 4 weeks. Each gram of Ecoza topical foam, 1% contains 10 mg of econazole nitrate, USP, in a white to off-white foam. Ecoza topical foam, 1% is alcohol (ethanol)-free and for topical use only. Chemically, econazole nitrate is 1-[2-{(4-chloro-phenyl)methoxy}-2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-1H-imidazole mononitrate.
Step 5: You should apply Ecoza topical foam to your toes, to the spaces between your toes, and to the surrounding areas 1 time a day for 4 weeks or as prescribed by your doctor. Figure B Figure C. Use your finger-tips to scoop up small amounts of Ecoza topical foam and. apply to the affected skin areas on your feet. Ecoza topical foam is flammable. Avoid heat, flame, and smoking during and immediately. following application. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture and/or incinerate the containers. Do not expose containers to heat and/or store at temperatures above 120°F (49°C) even when. empty.
In a pediatric maximal use trial, Ecoza topical foam, 1% was applied once daily to eighteen subjects aged 12 to 17 years with interdigital tinea pedis for 28 days [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The safety findings for subjects 12 to 17 years were similar to those in adult population. Each gram of Ecoza topical foam, 1% contains 10 mg of econazole nitrate, USP, in a white to off-white foam. Ecoza topical foam, 1% is alcohol (ethanol)-free and for topical use only. Chemically, econazole nitrate is 1-[2-{(4-chloro-phenyl)methoxy}-2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-1H-imidazole mononitrate.
Ecoza topical foam, 1% should be applied to cover affected areas once daily for 4 weeks. Foam, 1%. Each gram of Ecoza topical foam, 1%, contains 10 mg of econazole nitrate in a white to off-white foam. Ecoza topical foam, 1% is white to off-white foam supplied in 70 g (NDC 23710-100-70) aluminum pressurized canister. Do not refrigerate or freeze. Ecoza topical foam is flammable. Avoid heat, flame, and smoking during and immediately following application. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture and/or incinerate the containers. Do not expose containers to heat and/or store at temperatures above 120°F (49°C) even when empty.
Ecoza topical foam, 1% is for topical use only. Ecoza topical foam, 1% is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Ecoza topical foam, 1% should be applied to cover affected areas once daily for 4 weeks. Each gram of Ecoza topical foam, 1% contains 10 mg of econazole nitrate, USP, in a white to off-white foam. Ecoza topical foam, 1% is alcohol (ethanol)-free and for topical use only. Chemically, econazole nitrate is 1-[2-{(4-chloro-phenyl)methoxy}-2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-1H-imidazole mononitrate.
1 Use Ecoza topical foam exactly as your doctor tells you to use it. 2  Apply Ecoza topical foam to the affected skin areas of your feet 1 time a day for 4 weeks. 3  If Ecoza topical foam gets in or near your eyes, rinse them well with water. Each gram of Ecoza topical foam, 1% contains 10 mg of econazole nitrate, USP, in a white to off-white foam. Ecoza topical foam, 1% is alcohol (ethanol)-free and for topical use only. Chemically, econazole nitrate is 1-[2-{(4-chloro-phenyl)methoxy}-2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-1H-imidazole mononitrate.
1 Use Ecoza topical foam exactly as your doctor tells you to use it. 2  Apply Ecoza topical foam to the affected skin areas of your feet 1 time a day for 4 weeks. 3  If Ecoza topical foam gets in or near your eyes, rinse them well with water. 4  Wash your hands after you apply Ecoza topical foam. Gently rub the foam into the skin. (See Figure D). Figure D. Step 5: You should apply Ecoza topical foam to your toes, to the spaces between your toes, and to the surrounding areas 1 time a day for 4 weeks or as prescribed by your doctor. Step 6: Replace the cap. Wash your hands after applying