Awamat: A traditional and common sweet in Lebanon. This awamat recipe or awama is easy and delicious authentic Lebanese dessert dish that you can find it in Lebanese restaurants. Read more... Barazek: an Arabic dessert famous in Lebanon, Jordan, Syria, and Palestine that is Served with Turkish coffee or hot tea. Over 20 Lebanese Sweets Recipes-Enjoy the best homemade traditional Lebanese sweets in any occasion. Baklava: This is a baklava recip...
If there’s one dessert that rules as the Queen of Arabic sweets, I would nominate Kunafe Nabulsia, the sticky pastry made of gooey sweet cheese sandwiched between layers of shredded kunafe pastry. Most recipes call for a total of 1 kg (2.2 lbs.) cheese. I like to use a little less, as this also makes a thinner and more delicate kunafe. Because it’s a sweet dessert, the mozzarella and akawwi cheese require desalting—a simple task of soaking it in water for a day. (No need to do this with ricotta).
Backlava or Baklawa from Lebanon. Traditional Lebanese pastries made from wheat flour, sugar, sheep butter ghee, wheat starch, water, whole milk powder, and salt, stuffed with cashew nuts, or pistachios. The best known among oriental sweets and desserts. Weight includes box.
This Egyptian dessert contains phyllo dough or puff pastry, milk and nuts. Use any kind of nuts that you would like and eat it with a spoon. Legend has it that Om Ali was the first wife of the sultan Ezz El Din Aybek. When the sultan died, his second wife had a dispute with Om Ali, resulting in the second wife's death. 
Halva, generally is called alva (алва) in Serbian, while semolina based is called ćetena alva (ћетен алва) and sesame based is called tan alva (тан алва) or tehen alva (техен алва). It is common to the whole region. Alva is a typical sweet in local church fairs around Serbia. Traditionally, halva prepared with flour (un helvası) is cooked and served upon the death of a person. In addition, some sweets and desserts are also called helva, such as pamuk helva or koz helva, a sweet-like dessert which is widespread in Turkey. In Safranbolu, koz helva is also called leaf-halva.
If there’s one dessert that rules as the Queen of Arabic sweets, I would nominate Kunafe Nabulsia, the sticky pastry made of gooey sweet cheese sandwiched between layers of shredded kunafe pastry. Most recipes call for a total of 1 kg (2.2 lbs.) cheese. I like to use a little less, as this also makes a thinner and more delicate kunafe. Because it’s a sweet dessert, the mozzarella and akawwi cheese require desalting—a simple task of soaking it in water for a day.