Foods containing simple carbohydrates include sugary fluids like soda or energy drinks, deserts, syrups, and processed foods. Complex carbohydrates include two types of foods: dietary fibers and starches. Foods with dietary fiber include nuts seed, fruits, beans, oatmeal, barley, bran, and vegetables. Starches include potatoes, beans, peas, corn, and some breads, cereals, and grains. 
Good carbs are also an important part of a healthy low glycemic diet. Eating foods with a low glycemic index can help you lose weight and maintain healthy blood sugar and triglyceride levels to manage or avoid developing diabetes and heart disease. But bad carbs are detrimental to a healthy diet. And consistently eating from the bad carbs list will rapidly sabotage all your health and weight management goals. So choose all of your carbohydrates from this great list of healthy carbohydrate foods.
Carbs within colorful vegetables and fruits are always better for your body than carb-rich foods like breads, pastas, rice, and potatoes. Here's a great graphic that illustrates how to incorporate carbs into your diet. It is also best to aim for fiber-rich carbohydrates (peas and beans, fruit, oatmeal). Other Foods. The correct amount of carbohydrates that should be eaten during dieting is one the the most controversial subjects in the dieting industry. Some preach low carbs, others say only calories matter, and yet others say to eat only slow carbs.
The Good Carb Bad Carb Bottom Line Unhealthy bad carbs are filled with empty calories that have no nutritional value. And eating a diet high in bad carbohydrate foods, as most everyone does, increases your risk of heart disease, stroke, arthritis, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes and obesity. But bad carbs are detrimental to a healthy diet. And consistently eating from the bad carbs list will rapidly sabotage all your health and weight management goals. So choose all of your carbohydrates from this great list of healthy carbohydrate foods.
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates. Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health.
Eating foods from our good carbs list can help you to have a better brain and a strong trim naturally energetic body. But choosing often from the bad carbs list can lead to overweight, heart disease and diabetes. So it makes good sense to choose from our healthy carbohydrates list. Your best good carbs sources are from this healthy carbohydrates list: 1  Raw and lightly steamed vegetables, 2  Legumes, beans, nuts and seeds, 3  High fiber 100% whole grains, 4  Raw, whole, fresh fruits, 5  Most low fat dairy.
And it's vitally important to your health that you know the good carb bad carb difference. The good carbs on the list of carbohydrate foods can provide your body with energy, optimum nutrition, proper brain and organ function and a healthy, attractive appearance. But bad carbs are detrimental to a healthy diet. And consistently eating from the bad carbs list will rapidly sabotage all your health and weight management goals. So choose all of your carbohydrates from this great list of healthy carbohydrate foods.
Foods High in Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are macronutrients made up of carbon and hydrogen atoms, and there are many different types found in the food we eat. Carbohydrates and the molecules they break down into are the body's main and preferred source of energy. Foods highest in carbohydrates, and considered less nutritious, are sugary, processed foods that are devoid of other important nutrients. The following list includes these foods.