Radiologic technologists perform diagnostic imaging examinations, such as x-rays, in order to help physicians diagnose the problems that are ailing their patients. The average radiologic technologist makes $54,340 per year and the career is growing at a rate of 28% of 2010-2012. Part 1 of 3: Getting Certified. 1. Get a high school diploma or a GED. You will need to pursue a higher education to become a radiologic technologist, so you will have to start here if you do not have this degree already. If you're still in high school and know you want to be a radiologic technologist, then you can try to take courses that can help you succeed in the field
In most states, you must be licensed to become a radiology technician, but requirements are variable. You need to contact the health board in your state for licensing specifics. As for certification, the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT) provides voluntary certification in a variety of specialties. How to Become a Radiology Technician in 5 Steps. Explore the career requirements for radiology technician. Get the facts about education, salary, licensure requirements and potential job growth to determine if this is the right career for you.
If your goal is to become a Radiologic Technologist, then you will need to complete a program that will prepare you for the ARRT exam. You must pass the ARRT exam in order to get the title of Radiologic Technologist, or RT, as it is commonly referred to in the field. 3. Become certified through the ARRT and complete licensing requirements for your state. Once you have completed your radiology program, you will need to get licensed through your state and pass
In order to become a radiologist assistant, one must first train to be a radiologic technologist. While associate's degree programs in radiography are common, many RA programs require applicants to hold a bachelor's degree, so earning only an associate's degree could limit individuals' choices for higher education. 
There are training and certificate programs for radiology techs that take around a year, as well as associate’s and bachelor’s degrees that take anywhere from two to four years. The best credentials are a combination of formal training, a professional license, and work experience. 
Read following requirements to become a radiology technician. To become a radiology technician, the candidate requires an entry level education (GED certificate or high school diploma in biology, math, physics, and chemistry). The radiology student should then complete 2 years of associate’s degree from an accredited program in a school or hospital to become a radiology technician. The candidate should undergo 2 years of radiology training and become a registered radiologic technician by the A.R.R.T followed by certification.
Please try again later. In order to become a radiology technician, a person must attend a state-accredited radiology school where she is trained to perform the imaging modalities required for radiology. Learn about the licenses needed to be a radiology technician with help from a radiologist in this free video on radiology technicians. 
Many people are unaware that it takes only two years to become a Radiologic Technologist. The only prerequisite is that you have received your high school diploma or GED. You will find that the field of radiology presents many interesting paths and advancement opportunities. 3. Become certified through the ARRT and complete licensing requirements for your state. Once you have completed your radiology program, you will need to get licensed through your state and pass the ARRT exam.