During your 40’s and 50’s, the signs and symptoms of COPD typically start to appear. Shortness of breath, chronic cough and tightness of the chest are the symptoms most often reported by COPD sufferers. COPD in your 60’s and beyond is when the disease does the most damage. COPD doesn’t have to be the end. Do some research and ask your doctor everything you can about this progressive disease. If you or a loved one suffers from COPD and want to learn more about treatment options, contact us or call (855) 469-5864.
If you're in your 20s or 30s. A diagnosis of COPD is rare at this age. “Although we dont see COPD in children, we do realize now that children who have asthma may be at risk of COPD later in life because of the [lung changes] that result from asthma,” explains Dr. Schachter. Only about 100,000 people in the United States have it, but it makes the lungs (and liver) incredibly sensitive to damage and can result in an under-30 diagnosis of COPD (even in otherwise healthy nonsmokers).
COPD can be diagnosed in adults as early as their 20's and 30's, but COPD diagnosis in people in their 40's is on the rise, says Dr. Neil Schachter, medical director of respiratory care at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City. If I'm diagnosed with COPD at a young age, will I receive different treatment than older people with COPD? For the answer to this question and more, Watch for my next sharepost on Young with COPD to learn if young people with COPD get different treatment than older people with COPD and more.
The diagnosis of COPD should be considered in anyone over the age of 35 to 40 who has shortness of breath, a chronic cough, sputum production, or frequent winter colds and a history of exposure to risk factors for the disease. Spirometry is then used to confirm the diagnosis. 
Whether you have a genetic predisposition or not, experts agree that the best way to prevent COPD is to avoid smoking, which can set the stage for a COPD diagnosis in your 40s and 50s. Smoking is responsible for about 75% of COPD deaths, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Only about 100,000 people in the United States have it, but it makes the lungs (and liver) incredibly sensitive to damage and can result in an under-30 diagnosis of COPD (even in otherwise healthy nonsmokers).
The very same article does mention that getting COPD in your 20’s or 30’s is a rare occurrence, but it can happen if there is a history of severe asthma, ongoing smoking or in rare cases; through a rare genetic disorder called alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. COPD doesn’t have to be the end. Do some research and ask your doctor everything you can about this progressive disease. If you or a loved one suffers from COPD and want to learn more about treatment options, contact us or call (855) 469-5864.
According to Health magazine, in the year 2000, 3.9 percent of the U.S. population between the ages of 25 to 44 were living with COPD, 7.7 percent between the ages of 55 to 65 and 9.5 percent of people over the age of 74. COPD doesn’t have to be the end. Do some research and ask your doctor everything you can about this progressive disease. If you or a loved one suffers from COPD and want to learn more about treatment options, contact us or call (855) 469-5864.
COPD & Age. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) makes up a group of lung disorders that cause blocked airways. The most common forms are chronic bronchitis and emphysema. According to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), COPD is the third most common cause of death in the United States. Unlike other types of lung disease, COPD is most prevalent in older adults. It’s a progressive illness that takes several years to develop. The Mayo Clinic states that most people are at least 35 to 40 years old when COPD first shows signs. The NHLBI reports that the disease develops most often in people who are 40 or older. While rare, it’s not entirely impossible to develop COPD as a young adult.
Lifestyle changes and treatments, however, can slow it down. In 2000, 3.9% of the U.S. population between the ages of 25–44 were living with COPD; that number was 7.7% for those between ages 55–64, and 9.5% in people over 74 years of age. While smoking is a major risk factor, more than 15% of people who develop COPD have never smoked. Only about 100,000 people in the United States have it, but it makes the lungs (and liver) incredibly sensitive to damage and can result in an under-30 diagnosis of COPD (even in otherwise healthy nonsmokers).
COPD most often occurs in people age 40 and older with a history of smoking (either current or former smokers). However, as many as one out of six people with COPD never smoked. Smoking during childhood and teenage years can slow how lungs grow and develop. This can increase the risk of developing COPD in adulthood. 