A muscle cramp is a strong, painful contraction or tightening of a muscle that comes on suddenly and lasts from a few seconds to several minutes. It often occurs in the legs. A muscle cramp is also called a charley horse. Nighttime leg cramps are usually sudden spasms, or tightening, of muscles in the calf. The muscle cramps can sometimes happen in the thigh or the foot.
Definition. Night leg cramps, also called nocturnal leg cramps, are painful, involuntary spasms, aching or contractions of muscles in your legs. In most cases, night leg cramps involve your calf muscles, but muscles in your feet or thighs may cramp as well. 1  Causes. Night leg cramps, also called nocturnal leg cramps, are painful, involuntary spasms, aching or contractions of muscles in your legs. In most cases, night leg cramps involve your calf muscles, but muscles in your feet or thighs may cramp as well
Treating leg cramps. If the cause of your leg cramps is known, it may be possible to treat the underlying cause. For example, secondary leg cramps that are related to liver disease are caused by high levels of toxins in the blood which trigger muscles spasms. During an episode of leg cramp, stretch and massage the affected muscle. For example, if the cramp is in your calf muscle: 1  Straighten your leg and lift your foot upwards, bending it at the ankle so that your toes point towards your shin. 2  Walk around on your heels for a few minutes.
Causes. Most of the time, night leg cramps occur for no known reason, and they're usually harmless. In general, night leg cramps are likely to be related to muscle fatigue and nerve problems. The risk of having night leg cramps increases with age. Pregnant women also have a higher likelihood of experiencing night leg cramps. Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is sometimes confused with night leg cramps, but it's a separate condition. In general, pain is not a main feature of RLS, but RLS could be the cause of
Nocturnal leg cramps are pains that occur in the legs during the night. They usually cause awakenings from sleep, but they may also occur while awake at night during periods of inactivity. These cramps are most often present in the calf muscles but can also occur in the thighs or feet. Nocturnal leg cramps are quite painful and cause the affected muscles to feel tight or knotted.
The cramp, or charley horse, is due to the muscle contracting (shortening and tightening) in a sudden and violent way. These nocturnal leg cramps usually occur in the calf muscle. But foot and leg cramps do happen at night also. Cramps in the thighs are less common. One main reason for the pain is because blood flow to the muscle is restricted. Waste products also build up within the muscle tissue. 1 Dehydration. 2  Not staying hydrated with enough water during the day may be one of the big causes of leg cramps at night. 3  This is most likely due to fluid imbalances of electrolytes (mainly sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium). 4  Overuse of the muscles, perhaps from exercising, gardening or other physical activities
The muscle may remain tender for up to 24 hours after a leg cramp. Leg cramps usually occur when you are resting-most commonly at night when in bed. (They are often called night cramps.) They may wake you. It can become a distressing condition if your sleep is regularly disturbed. A leg cramp is a pain that comes from a leg muscle. It is due to a muscle spasm, which is when a muscle contracts too hard. It usually occurs in a calf muscle, below and behind a knee. The small muscles of the feet are sometimes affected.
And even if you aren't taking one of these drugs, it's still wise to consult with your doctor if you often cramp up at night. In most cases, leg cramps are harmless. But they can signal an underlying medical problem, especially if you also have muscle weakness, swelling, or numbness or pain that just won't go away. 