Knowing that you’ll achieve the best weight loss results if you don’t drink any alcohol, does not mean that you’ll never be able to enjoy it… ever. We often quote the saying by St Augustus who said “I find total abstinence far easier than perfect moderation.”. Now different strategies work best for different people. When alcohol was consumed (mainly on weekends) the weight loss did not just stop, but weight increased. The net effect is that her weight loss journey is far slower and longer than it would be if she abstained. We’ve seen many cases where alcohol stopped all weight loss.
With 20 grams of alcohol x 5.7 calories + the total amount of carbs, you end up with a drink that contains 150 calories. The range of caloric intake for beers ranges from 64-250+. Wine and shots also average about the same amount of calories. Our brains are seemingly wired to desire a cold refreshing alcoholic beverage after a tough day at work. But, the truth is that alcohol, when not consumed in moderation (1-2 drinks a few times per week) has very negative effects on weight loss.
Now you are only travelling 1 km every hour. It’s so slow, you may be tempted to throw in the towel! For this member, the lesson she learned was absolutely clear. If she drinks (alcohol) her weight goes up for a few days and it takes the rest of the week to get her weight loss back on track. Now this article is NOT about any moral, legal or health issues to do with drinking. But when it comes to weight loss, sometimes we have to be careful of our self talk. When alcohol was consumed (mainly on weekends) the weight loss did not just stop, but weight increased. The net effect is that her weight loss journey is far slower and longer than it would be if she abstained. We’ve seen many cases where alcohol stopped all weight loss.
67 thoughts on “ 8 Lessons I learnt from Giving Up Alcohol to Lose Weight ”. Fantastic advice here, I’m two weeks in to my alcohol abstinence healthy eating new lifestyle. Like you say within a couple of days you notice a positive effect. For me however, I was having a beer or two every night at home when I got in from work. This was part of my routine and the idea of that routine being broken was very scary, it was a crutch that I needed. However, once I’d found the motivation to lose weight by giving up alcohol, I was able to overcome that fear.
In order to lose the weight, I had to stop drinking. I had tried to lose weight many times before, but I refused to give up the booze, so I was unsuccessful. One day, I decided to sit down and add up the calories I consumed in alcohol on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis. 
Lesson #6 – Alcohol is the epicenter of why you’ve put weight on. They say that losing weight is 80% diet and 20% exercise. I never believed this and over the years, have always tried to lose weight from hardcore exercise. However, it was only when I gave up booze that I really understood that the 80/20 thing is true. For me however, I was having a beer or two every night at home when I got in from work. This was part of my routine and the idea of that routine being broken was very scary, it was a crutch that I needed. However, once I’d found the motivation to lose weight by giving up alcohol, I was able to overcome that fear.
Abstinance: periods of time off alcohol can be beneficial in more ways than one. Just as the festive season is associated with over-indulging, for some, the months that follow are all about abstinence, whether it's Dry January or FebFast, thousands of Australians are taking part. 
Wrong. The idea that alcohol converts to fat is a myth. If you want to lose weight and be lean and fit for life you need the facts about alcohol and weight loss, and you need to understand how alcohol consumption and weight loss seem to be a problem for most people. First, let’s address alcohol and weight gain or weight loss. Alcohol does NOT convert to fat.
Research considers an alcoholic drink to be about 15 grams of ethanol alcohol. Fifteen grams of alcohol is found in 5 ounces of wine, 1 1/2 ounces of an 80 proof/40% drink such as vodka or whiskey, and 12 ounces of beer. Because these are general guidelines, clearly some drinks may be stronger than others. Our brains are seemingly wired to desire a cold refreshing alcoholic beverage after a tough day at work. But, the truth is that alcohol, when not consumed in moderation (1-2 drinks a few times per week) has very negative effects on weight loss.