A goldfish will grow to the depth of the water it is kept in. If the tank is not large enough to allow the goldfish to grow, it's growth will be stunted and this can cause the fish to become unhealthy and die. The fancy goldfish do not get as large as the common/comet/shubunkin/feeder goldfish. The more room you can give your goldfish, the faster it will grow.
Minimum size tank 29 gallon for one or two Minimum for three or more would be 50 gallons Lots of filtration-goldfish put out a lot of waste-I like to double the filter on the goldfish tanks (60 gallon filter for the 29 gallon tank) Feed once a day, as much as they will eat in a couple of minutes.
How fast do goldfish grow is really a tough question to answer really. As mentioned above these factors will influence the growth potential of your goldfish. For example the how clean your water is impacts how fast they will grow. If the water is too clear then lacks algae and food to feed on.
You will see your goldfish grow fast. The goldfish food that you feed them plays a part in their growth as well. If you want your goldfish to grow fast consider feeding them a wide variety of food. Also high growth food will help as well maximizing the growth of your goldfish.
When goldfish are in a tiny bowl, they still grow, but much more slowly. It's best to provide at least one gallon of water per full grown fish. This gives goldfish room to swim and explore their home. Plan the aquarium space according to how big the fish can become, not how big he is at the time of purchase.
Genetics are the predetermined factor in how big your fish will grow. Goldfish sold as tank suitable will grow to about 10 inches while those sold as pond suitable will reach a maximum of about 18 inches.
A Goldfish will grow quicker if you increase its metabolism slightly. This can be done by keeping the water at summer temperatures of around 65F to 70F. Goldfish kept at this higher temp will also need added space (2 gals per inch of fish), air bubbles and a really good filtration system.