1 The cytoplasm is the place where the cell expands and growth of the cell takes place. 2  The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 3  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement. 4  It also aids in the movement of the different cellular elements. Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred.
The membrane-bound organelle (mini organ) in eukaryotic cells, aka those cells that contain a membrane-bound nucleus, that is the control center of the cell. The nucleus houses the genetic instructions necessary to synthesize proteins and other molecules needed for cell survival, growth, and reproduction. Most of the ATP in a cell is made in the mitochondria, the cell's powerhouse. ATP is a coenzyme (the-ase in the name gives it away) and a strong reducing agent, or electron donor, that acts as the principal energy carrier in the cell.
The nucleus of a eukaryotic cell contains the DNA, the genetic material of the cell. The DNA contains the information necessary for constructing the cell and directing the multitude of synthesis tasks performed by the cell in the process of life and reproduction. The nucleolus is the central portion of the cell nucleus and is composed of ribosomal RNA, proteins and DNA. It also contains ribosomes in various stages of synthesis. The nucleolus accomplishes the manufacture of the ribosomes.
This organelle has two major functions: it stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include growth, intermediary metabolism, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. Generally there is only one nucleus per cell, but there are exceptions, such as the cells of slime molds and the Siphonales group of algae. Simpler one-celled organisms (prokaryotes), like the bacteria and cyanobacteria, don't have a nucleus.
The general name given to the membrane-bound structures within a eukaryotic cell (the cells that have nuclei) that perform specific functions necessary for cell survival, growth, or reproduction. Examples include Golgi bodies, lysosomes, mitochondria, chloroplasts, endoplasmic reticulum, vacuoles, and vesicles. Most of the ATP in a cell is made in the mitochondria, the cell's powerhouse. ATP is a coenzyme (the-ase in the name gives it away) and a strong reducing agent, or electron donor, that acts as the principal energy carrier in the cell.
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. 
1 Cell nucleus-a membrane-enclosed organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. 2  It contains most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes. 
They are simpler and smaller than eukaryotic cells, and lack membrane-bound organelles such as the nucleus. Prokaryotes include two of the domains of life, bacteria and archaea. The DNA of a prokaryotic cell consists of a single chromosome that is in direct contact with the cytoplasm. 1 The eukaryotic DNA is organized in one or more linear molecules, called chromosomes, which are associated with histone proteins. 2  All chromosomal DNA is stored in the cell nucleus, separated from the cytoplasm by a membrane. 3  Some eukaryotic organelles such as mitochondria also contain some DNA.
The. nucleus. is a cell structure that has DNA, and controls cellular growth and reproduction. A universal remote is like the nucleus because it can control almost everything in the house. The job of the. nucleolus. is to make RNA and DNA nucleotides.
The cytoplasm of the animal cell is a gel-like material made of water. It fills the cells and contains proteins and important molecules that are necessary for the cell. The cytoplasm is made of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, amino acids and nucleotides. Cytoplasm holds all the cellular organelles. Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred.