Habitat. Where do African wild dogs live? What is an African wild dog? African wild dogs have diverse tastes. They are quite social and intelligent. The entire pack is involved in the welfare of the pups. African wild dogs are very vocal. The African wild dog—also sometimes called the hunting dog or African painted dog—has a colorful, patchy coat; large bat-like ears; and a bushy tail with a white tip that may serve as a flag to keep the pack in contact while hunting. No two wild dogs are marked exactly the same, making it easy to identify individuals.
The African wild dog is a highly social animal, living in packs with separate dominance hierarchies for males and females. The African wild dog is the bulkiest and most solidly built of African canids. The species stands 60–75 cm (24–30 in) in shoulder height, and weighs 20–25 kg (44–55 lb) in East Africa and up to 30 kg (66 lb) in southern Africa.
The African wild dogs don't follow them. During migrations the dogs survive on bugs and rodents. The African wild dog lives in grasslands, savannas, and open woodlands of eastern and southern Africa. They are mostly found in the African plains; they do not live in jungle areas. They also live in parts of Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique, Swaziland, and in the Transvaal of South Africa
Where does the African Wild Dog live? The African Wild Dog lives in most countries along the east coast of Africa from Eritrea to far northern points of South Africa, and swaths of areas from Kenya to Cameroon and … Malawi to Angola/Namibia. 18 people found this useful. African wild dogs live in plains and woodland forests-wherever there is abundant prey-in an area of Africa that is mostly tropical savanna.
What country does an African wild dog live on? Algeria, Libya, Niger, Burkina Faso, Benin, Togo, Chad, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Ethiopia, South Sudan, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Ang … ola, and South Africa. African wild dogs live in plains and woodland forests-wherever there is abundant prey-in an area of Africa that is mostly tropical savanna.
African wild dog. African wild dogs form packs of up to 40 members, each with a dominant breeding pair, that remain monogamous for life. These gregarious animals are co-operative hunters, relying on sight rather than smell to pinpoint their prey. 
The African wild dog, also called the hunting dog, is a vanishing species in East Africa. Field studies have shown that the wild dog is a highly intelligent and social animal. The Latin name for the African wild dog means painted wolf, which aptly describes the colorful coat of dark brown, black and yellow patches. Wild dogs have bushy tails with white tips that may serve as a flag to keep the pack in contact while hunting. Habitat. Wild dogs live mostly in arid zones and in the savanna.
They are quite social and intelligent. African wild dogs live in packs of six to 20. The aggression exhibited toward prey is completely nonexistent between members of the pack, and there is little intimidation among the social hierarchy. The African wild dog—also sometimes called the hunting dog or African painted dog—has a colorful, patchy coat; large bat-like ears; and a bushy tail with a white tip that may serve as a flag to keep the pack in contact while hunting. No two wild dogs are marked exactly the same, making it easy to identify individuals.
The African Wild Dog lives in most countries along the east coast of Africa from Eritrea to far northern points of South Africa, and swaths of areas from Kenya to Cameroon and Malawi to Angola/Namibia. African wild dogs live in plains and woodland forests-wherever there is abundant prey-in an area of Africa that is mostly tropical savanna.