In China, dragons have long symbolized power, creativity, heaven,  and good fortune. They are thought … to have authority over bodies of  water, rain, floods and storms.   In time, Chinese Buddhist artists adopted the dragon as a symbol of  enlightenment. Today dragons decorate roofs and gates of temples,  both as guardians and to symbolize the dragon's power of clarity.  Buddhist dragons often are depicted holding a mani jewel, which  represents the Buddha's teaching.
A pregnant dragon is particularly auspicious as a symbol of future growth and expansion. The dragon is most useful in connection with fame, reputation and career. When the dragon symbol is applied in feng shui, the most effective placement is in the fame area of a home or in connection with a home office.
The koi also represents strength, good fortune, and eternal wealth. Dragons: They are similar to a ying/yang symbol. They represent the elements (Water, Fire, etc), the directions (East, wast, etc), and the Sky and Underworld.
Dragon Meanings and Symbolism for Guidance. A Look at the Dragon Totem Meanings. A Dragon totem is one of the most powerful totems, representing a huge range of qualities, emotions, and traits. When Dragons come to us, it could mean many things.
European Dragons In western culture, the dragon is traditionally depicted as a powerful, mystical guard over treasure or a savage beast which likes to wreak havoc over the surrounding countryside. This negative image comes from the use of the word to describe Satan in the Bible.
Oriental Dragons In eastern culture, the dragon is a benevolent symbol, representing wisdom and power, usually with many magical abilities. They are depicted as wise and helpful entities, much to the contrast to their western kin.
Dragon Meaning in the Orient. Dragons in the Orient are associated with wisdom and longevity. They usually possess some form of magic or supernatural power. Chinese dragons tend to be benevolent; European dragons are often malevolent. Asian dragons are usually associated with water in some way.
Chinese dragons traditionally symbolize potent and auspicious powers, particularly control over water, rainfall, typhoons, and floods. The dragon is also a symbol of power, strength, and good luck for people who are worthy of it.