This nerve originates from the retinal ganglion cells in the retina and extends from the back of the eye to the brain. A ganglion is a mass of tissue composed of nerve cell bodies and a retinal ganglion cell is a type of neuron or nerve cell near the surface of the retina of the eye. When the eye is open, light hits the retina and initiates nerve impulses that travel along the optic nerves to the visual centers of the brain. The spot on the retina where the optic nerve leaves the eye is called the optic disc.
The inner retina is supplied by the central retinal artery, the branch of the ophthalmic artery that enters the optic nerve 4 mm posterior to the eye. The central retinal artery has 4 main branches within the retina. These vessels emerge from the optic nerve head and run radially away from the optic nerve. Retinal nerve fibers exit the eye through the optic nerve, located nasally and on the same plane as the anatomical center of the retina. There is no retinal tissue overlying the optic nerve head. The optic nerve head or optic disc is oval in shape and measures approximately 1.75 mm.
The optic nerve (also known as cranial nerve II) is a continuation of the axons of the ganglion cells in the retina. There are approximately 1.1 million nerve cells in each optic nerve. The optic nerve, which acts like a cable connecting the eye with the brain, actually is more like brain tissue than it is nerve tissue. blind spot. The beginning of the optic nerve in the retina is called the optic nerve head or optic disc. Since there are no photoreceptors (cones and rods) in the optic nerve head, this area of the retina cannot respond to light stimulation. As a result, it is known as the blind spot, and everybody has one in each ey
There are twelve cranial nerves. In terms of its embryonic development, the optic nerve is a part of the central nervous system (CNS) rather than a peripheral nerve. The word optic comes from the Greek optikos, pertaining to sight. Aside from the optic nerve, the eye has a number of other components. These include the cornea, iris, pupil, lens, retina, macula, and vitreous. The cornea is the clear front window of the eye that transmits and focuses light into the eye. It can be viewed as the only visible part of the brain (or extension of it). The optic nerve is the second cranial nerve. The cranial nerve emerge from or enter the skull (the cranium), as opposed to the spinal nerves which emerge from the vertebral column.
The optic nerve lies completely within the central nervous system and is the second cranial nerve (CN II). Optic nerve anatomy is similar to brain tissue and differs from peripheral nerves in several ways. The optic nerves extends from the back of the eye to the visual centers of the brain. slide 1 of 5. The optic nerve is the nerve of sight and is the second of twelve paired cranial nerves. It is also known as CN II. This nerve is part of the central nervous system and connects the eye to the brain. When the eye is open, light hits the retina and initiates nerve impulses that travel along the optic nerves to the visual centers of the brain. The spot on the retina where the optic nerve leaves the eye is called the optic disc.
The optic tract (from the Latin tractus opticus) is a part of the visual system in the brain. It is a continuation of the optic nerve that relays information from the optic chiasm to the ipsilateral lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) , pretectal nuclei, and superior colliculus. 
Optic Nerve eye-definition and function. Optic Nerve-the second cranial NERVE, which conveys nerve impulses from the EYE to the BRAIN. There are two optic nerves, one from each eye. The fibers that become the optic nerve originate in the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, in an area called the visual cortex. Each extends along structures called the optic tracts that pass through the temporal lobes and the center of the brain, converging in the optic chiasm. It appears as a pale circle, about the size of a pencil eraser, against the dark background of the retina. The retina’s network of nerves extends from the optic nerve, gathering nerve impulses from the rods, cones, and other nerve cells in the retina.