If you are a CSRS employee who has, or will have, enough Social Security credits to be eligible for an earned Social Security benefit (through Social Security-covered earnings before, after or–on the side–during your federal career), you need to know what affect being covered by CSRS will have on that benefit. Now I want to focus on CSRS Offset employees and retirees, who have a different set of rules applied to them. For example, if you are covered by CSRS Offset, the GPO doesn’t apply to you. You may receive a spousal Social Security benefit.
A: His Social Security will not be reduced due to his receiving a survivor benefit (either CSRS or FERS). First, you are paying for that benefit by a deduction in your pension after you retire. Second, reductions to Social Security based on CSRS service apply only to the CSRS retiree, not to their spouse. John Grobe and his firm, Federal Career Experts, are available to deliver in-depth pre-retirement seminars for federal agencies. Agency HR staff can contact John for more information.
If you have reached your full retirement age, you can receive Social Security benefits with no limit on your earnings. CSRS employees who are eligible to receive Social Security will typically be affected by the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP). However, the WEP does not begin until you start receiving your annuity. If you are under your full retirement age, the Social Security Administration will deduct a portion of your benefits for every dollar that you earn above an annual limit, $15,480 in 2014, unless 2014 is the year in which you reach your full retirement age, in which case the limit is $41,400.
FERS retirees receive Social Security benefits and in certain cases a supplement if they retire under age 62. CSRS retirees may receive benefits if they worked 40 quarters, 10 years in the private sector. CSRS retiree benefits are reduced by the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) . If you served 4 years military service and didn't buy back your military time, your federal CSRS annuity will decrease by approximately 8%., 2% for each year of military service. If you pay your military time back your annuity will not decrease and you will also collect a Social Security check.
Under CSRS, employees do not pay Social Security taxes or earn Social Security benefits. Federal employees first hired in 1984 or later are covered by the Federal Employees’ Retirement System (FERS). All federal employees who are enrolled in FERS pay Social Security taxes and earn Social Security benefits. 
Until 1984, employment by the Federal government was covered under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and not by Social Security. If you worked for a Federal agency during those years, you did not pay Social Security tax on your earnings and those earnings are not shown on your record. Your CSRS pension may affect your Social Security benefit amount. If you. Had enough work to qualify for Social Security benefits. Qualify for Social Security benefits as a spouse. 1  Information For Government Employees. 2  Windfall Elimination Provision. 3  Government Pension Offset.
Under the government pension offset, any Social Security spousal benefit to which you would be entitled would be reduced by $2 for every $3 you receive in your CSRS annuity. In most cases, the GPO eliminates the Social Security spousal benefit. Up to this point, I’ve been focusing on pure CSRS employees and retirees. Now I want to focus on CSRS Offset employees and retirees, who have a different set of rules applied to them. For example, if you are covered by CSRS Offset, the GPO doesn’t apply to you. You may receive a spousal Social Security benefit.
Federal CSRS retirees are subject to the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) that reduces Social Security benefits for those with less than 30 years of substantial coverage and who earned a retirement benefit from employment not covered by Social Security-your CSRS service for example. If you served 4 years military service and didn't buy back your military time, your federal CSRS annuity will decrease by approximately 8%., 2% for each year of military service. If you pay your military time back your annuity will not decrease and you will also collect a Social Security check.
FERS employees who retire After their Minimum Retirement Age (MRA) with 30 years of service will receive a Special Retirement Supplement which is paid as an annuity until you reach age 62 and become eligible for Social Securit y. 
En espanol | Español, yes you can receive A Social security benefit and A Civil service. Pension, however Your Social security benefit may be. Reduced if you are receiving retirement, benefits your benefit could be reduced by The Windfall Elimination. provision En espanol | Español, yes you can receive A Social security benefit and A Civil service. pension