“At the moment, this is a one-dose immunization, but the CDC is now discussing whether children who receive the vaccine at 11 or 12 years old need a booster shot just before college. The meningitis vaccine “is also a good idea for travelers who go to certain parts of sub-Saharan Africa, the so-called meningitis belt,” Schaffner says.
Yes! Since the meningitis vaccine is thought to be effective for only about five years, you’ll need a booster vaccine about 4- 5 years after you got your first (meningococcal) vaccine. If you were 11 or 12 years old when you were vaccinated (against meningococcal disease), you should have a booster vaccine when you are 16. If you missed your vaccine when you were a preteen, it’s not too late to get vaccinated. Talk with your health care provider.
A booster dose is recommended at age 16 years. For teens who receive the first dose at age 13 through 15 years, a booster dose should be administered, preferably at age 16 through 18 years, before the period of increased risk. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
Vaccination is the best way to prevent meningitis. Meningococcal Vaccine Schedule. Vaccination is the best way to prevent meningitis. There are different types of meningococcal vaccines: MCV4 (conjugate), MenB (serogroup B), and MPSV4 (polysaccharide) vaccines. MCV4 is given to preteens and teens at age 11 or 12 years. A booster dose is needed at 16 years. Teens and young adults age 16 through 23 years may also be given MenB. 
Teens age 16 through 18 years can get the booster dose at any time. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
Meningococcal disease is a serious illness caused by a bacteria. It can cause meningitis, which is an infection of the brain and spinal cord, and it can also cause blood infections. About 2,600 people get the disease each year in the U.S. And up to one out of seven (10-14%) of those who get the disease will die. The vaccine has also been recommended for 11 – 12 year olds since 2005, so it is possible that incoming freshmen may have already received a dose. If you received a dose before age 16, you should get a booster before you go to college.
Physicians can still use serogroup B meningococcal vaccines for people 10 through 25 years old consistent with the labeled indication. ACIP is currently considering use of serogroup B meningococcal vaccines in preteens, teens, and young adults. A decision on recommendations is expected soon. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
When quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine was first recommended for preteens and teens in 2005, the expectation was that protection would last for 10 years; however, currently available data suggest protection declines in most teens within 5 years. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
Of the 1,000-2,600 people who get meningococcal disease each year, one-third are teens and young adults. Ten percent to 15% of those who get sick with the disease will die, even with antibiotic treatment. As many as 20% will have permanent side effects, such as hearing loss or brain damage. MPSV4 and MCV4 can prevent four types of meningococcal disease, which make up about 70% of the cases in the U.S. The MenB vaccines prevent the Meningococcal B strain. MCV4 is preferred for people age 55 and younger. The recommendation for teens is one dose at age 11 and one dose at age 16