Possess is a verb. Its plural form (the one used with plural subjects) is possess, while the form used with singular subjects is possesses. Examples: We possess, they possess. He, she or it possesses. The noun form of possess is possession, plural possessions
The majority of nouns are made plural by adding an s to the end, though as with so many things in the English language, there are exceptions (e.g., tooth and teeth). A noun is possessive when it shows ownership or possession of something. An exception to this rule is the possessive of plural nouns that do not end in s.. These are formed by adding an apostrophe and an s to the noun: The women's dressing room was very small. When the singular and plural of a noun both end in an s, the possessive for both is formed by adding an apostrophe only:
1 When making plural possessive nouns, add only an apostrophe if the noun ends with an “s”, like buses’ and countries’. 2  Hyphenated and compound nouns need an apostrophe and “s” added to the last noun, like father-in-law’s. Rules for Plural Possessive Nouns. The function of a noun in a sentence can be the subject or an object. They can modify by being possessive or an appositive. They can also modify by acting like an adverb or an adjective.
A plural possessive is a noun form for two or more people of things (a plural noun) that shows something in the sentence belongs to those people or things. The possessive form … can be either singular or plural. A singular possessive is formed by adding an apostrophe s ('s) to the end of the word. A plural possessive, for plurals that end in S, is formed by adding just an apostrophe (') after the S at the end of the word. Plural nouns that don't end in S (irregular plurals) form the possessive in the usual way, with an apostrophe S ('s) added to the end of the word
Possessive nouns are nouns that show ownership or possession. Normally these words would be a singular or plural noun, but in the possessive form they are used as adjectives to modify another a noun or pronoun. The cat’s fur is a matted mess. Here the word “cat’s” is a possessive noun. It is letting you know that the noun “fur” belongs to the cat
1 To make a singular noun possessive, add an apostrophe and an “s.” This applies to plural nouns that do not end with an “s”, like children-children’s and men-men’s. 2  When making plural possessive nouns, add only an apostrophe if the noun ends with an “s”, like buses’ and countries’. Rules for Plural Possessive Nouns. The function of a noun in a sentence can be the subject or an object. They can modify by being possessive or an appositive. They can also modify by acting like an adverb or an adjective.
Since the plural form for the noun moose is the same, moose, the singular possessive moose's, and the plural possessive, moose's are the same. Example: We found a moose's … footprints in our garden. We found several moose's footprints in our garden. Its plural form (the one used with plural subjects) is possess, while the form used with singular subjects is possesses. Examples: We possess, they possess. He, she or it
A plural possessive noun represents more than one thing or person, place, or thing and shows ownership. Let’s look at how you make a noun plural and possessive and the rules that apply to their uses. Rules for Plural Possessive Nouns. The function of a noun in a sentence can be the subject or an object. They can modify by being possessive or an appositive. They can also modify by acting like an adverb or an adjective.
Plural means more than one. So, the plural of guitar is guitars, and the plural of glass is glasses. To make a plural noun that ends in s possessive, add just an apostrophe-not an apostrophe and an s. We'll look at two example sentences with the nouns 'Smiths' and 'kids,' which are plural and which end in s. Making each of these plural nouns possessive requires simply adding an apostrophe at the end. Examples of nouns would be 'teacher' and 'horse.' We use the possessive form of a noun when we want to show ownership by that noun. In other words, we use the possessive form of a noun to show that someone has something, like a brother's car or a teacher's briefcase.