Raya is a name commonly used in Bulgaria as well. The meaning of the name is strongly related to the Bulgarian word for heaven which sounds pretty close to 'Raya' - RAI. In Bulgaria Raisa is not very popular for it sounds Russian indeed. Nevertheless Raya is considered one of our most beautiful although not most popular names. She told me that in her case it is a pet form of Raisa, but that because there are now many immigrants to Israel called Raisa the pet form Raya has morphed into a Hebrew name meaning (to quote her exact definition) bosom friend. She added that her own Hebrew name is not Rachel, as I'd assumed, but Ruth.
This doesn't mean that the name Raya is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Raya are: 1  Hebrew meaning: Friend. 2  Russian meaning: Pet form of Rayna. 3  Arabic meaning: Big Flag.
Ok to make it 100% clear: the Hebrew meaning of Raya is a wife or literally a spouse רעיה pronounced as Reaya. However, the name Raya has nothing to do with this. It's just a short (pet) name of Raisa (Jewish-Russian origin), which originally was formed as a short name of Rachel or Rachil in Yiddish. She told me that in her case it is a pet form of Raisa, but that because there are now many immigrants to Israel called Raisa the pet form Raya has morphed into a Hebrew name meaning (to quote her exact definition) bosom friend. She added that her own Hebrew name is not Rachel, as I'd assumed, but Ruth.
The name Raya is in the following categories: Arabic Names, Bulgarian Names, Hebrew Names, Jewish Names, Russian Names, Uncommon Names, Unique Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here). It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Raya are: 1  Hebrew meaning: Friend. 2  Russian meaning: Pet form of Rayna. 3  Arabic meaning: Big Flag.
Raya /raya/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced RAY-ah. It is of Israeli origin, and the meaning of Raya is friend. Raya is pronounced similarly to Rae ▼ , Ray ▼ , Raye, Rea, Reya, Rhaya, Rhea ▼ , Rhia, Ria, Roya and Rye. Other recommended similar baby names are Daya, Haya, Jaya, Kaya ▼ , Maya ▲ , Rafa, Raja, Rama, Rana, Rasya, Rayla, Rayma, Rayna and Taya ▼ . These names tend to be more commonly used than Raya.
Raya is also a Slavic diminutive form of the Slavic, English, Russian, and Yiddish name Rayna as well as a form of the Slavic, Czech, English, German, Polish, and Russian name Raina. Raya is also a Russian diminutive form of the English, Russian, and Yiddish name Raisa. Raya is seldom used as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. Out of the group of girl names directly related to Raya, Raina was the most popular in 2012. [ 2 syll. ra-ya, ray-a ] The baby girl name Raya is pronounced as R AA-Yaa- †. Raya is a Slavic and Russian name of Slavonic, Germanic, and Old Greek origin. Raya is a Slavic diminutive form of the Slavic, English, Russian, and Yiddish name Rayna as well as a Slavic form of the Czech and Slavic name Radka.
Raya is an uncommonly occurring first name for females but a very prominent surname for all people (#5653 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). The only prominent alternative form of Raya (not in Top 1000) is Raina (#960 last year) . Raya is pronounced similarly to Rae ▼ , Ray ▼ , Raye, Rea, Reya, Rhaya, Rhea ▼ , Rhia, Ria, Roya and Rye. Other recommended similar baby names are Daya, Haya, Jaya, Kaya ▼ , Maya ▲ , Rafa, Raja, Rama, Rana, Rasya, Rayla, Rayma, Rayna and Taya ▼ . These names tend to be more commonly used than Raya.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Raya and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Raya and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Raya are: 1  Hebrew meaning: Friend. 2  Russian meaning: Pet form of Rayna. 3  Arabic meaning: Big Flag.