They are looking for an Intermediate Quantity Surveyor to support senior QS's in the delivery of key frameworks and key projects... CV-Library - 6 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Edge Careers jobs-Bradford jobs. 
Intermediate Quantity Surveyor required to work for a successful i ndependent consultancy in Birmingham. Our client is a successful cost and property consultant who are working on a handful of projects ranging from 300k to 3m. We have an exciting opportunity for an Intermediate Quantity Surveyor looking to work for a small, friendly practice that can offer huge prospects, progression and a chance to join their team's ever-growing success.
A quantity surveyor (QS) is a professional working within the construction industry concerned with construction costs and contracts. Services provided by a quantity surveyor may include: 1  Cost planning and commercial management throughout the entire life cycle of the project from inception to post-completion. 2  Value engineering.
Assistant Quantity Surveyor / Intermediate Quantity Surveyor. As part of the ongoing growth of our Cambridge office we are seeking to recruit Assistant and Intermediate Quantity Surveyors.... 49 minutes ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Capita Plc jobs-Cambridge jobs.
Intermediate Quantity Surveyor. An Intermediate Quantity Surveyor is required for a very well established construction company based in central London. The company are a mid-sized principle contractor who work on a variety of projects from Refurbishments & Fit-Outs to Commercial New Builds and Homes. We have an exciting opportunity for an Intermediate Quantity Surveyor looking to work for a small, friendly practice that can offer huge prospects, progression and a chance to join their team's ever-growing success.
Intermediate Quantity Surveyor A construction consultancy based in Londons W1 offering Project Management / Quantity Surveying / Bank Monitoring services are on the lookout for an intermediate /Project Quantity Surveyor to join the team. Intermediate Quantity Surveyor A construction consultancy 10 minutes' walk from the London Eye are hoping to employ an Intermediate Quantity Surveyor who has experience working on public and private sector projects across London.
Intermediate Quantity Surveyor - £18,000 - £25,000 + package My client are a large blue chip main contractor who work throughout the UK. They have over 10 large offices throughout the country. You will be based on an industrial project in the Liverpool area. Intermediate Quantity Surveyor A construction consultancy 10 minutes' walk from the London Eye are hoping to employ an Intermediate Quantity Surveyor who has experience working on public and private sector projects across London.
Intermediate Quantity Surveyor This expanding, mid-sized PQS with offices at a number of UK locations are seeking an Intermediate Quantity surveyor to join their busy team at their Birmingham office. Due to an ever increasing list of 'Blue Chip' clients, this company is becoming a major force in the... Intermediate Quantity Surveyor A construction consultancy 10 minutes' walk from the London Eye are hoping to employ an Intermediate Quantity Surveyor who has experience working on public and private sector projects across London.
Intermediate Quantity Surveyor An international Consultancy with offices across the UK are seeking an intermediate Quantity Surveyor to join their busy Nottingham, ten minutes from the M1. They are seeking an individual who has 4 years + experience in the role working towards their MRICS and has a... Intermediate Quantity Surveyor A construction consultancy 10 minutes' walk from the London Eye are hoping to employ an Intermediate Quantity Surveyor who has experience working on public and private sector projects across London.