In statistics, a random effect(s) model, also called a variance components model, is a kind of hierarchical linear model. It assumes that the dataset being analysed consists of a hierarchy of different populations whose differences relate to that hierarchy. There are two common assumptions made about the individual specific effect, the random effects assumption and the fixed effects assumption. The random effects assumption (made in a random effects model) is that the individual specific effects are uncorrelated with the independent variables. The fixed effect assumption is that the individual specific effect is correlated with the independent variables
xtreg— Fixed-, between-, and random-effects and population-averaged linear models 5 Options for BE model Model be requests the between regression estimator.wls speciﬁes that, for unbalanced data, weighted least squares be used rather than the default OLS .Both methods produce consistent estimates. xtreg— Fixed-, between-, and random-effects and population-averaged linear models 9 More is required to justify the between estimator of(2), but the conditioning on the sample is notassumed because  i + i is treated as an error term.
This is an important point, and explained better by Holmes' random-effects model, which should be required reading for anyone doing a random-effects test. In general, you want to include whatever image is a summary of your effect size, and not a measure of the significance of your effect size. For the most part, the rule of thumb is: single-subject analyses should be fixed-effects (to leverage the greater power of a fixed-effects model) and any analysis involving a group of subjects that you'd like to express something about the population should be random-effects. 4.
Ronald Fisher introduced random effects models to study the correlations of trait values between relatives. In the 1950s, Charles Roy Henderson provided best linear unbiased estimates (BLUE) of fixed effects and best linear unbiased predictions (BLUP) of random effects. 
To fit a mixed model, you must specify the random effects in the Fit Model launch window. However, if all of your model effects are random, you can also fit your model in the Variability / Attribute Gauge Chart platform. Only certain models can be fit in this platform. To specify a random effect, highlight it in the Construct Model Effects list and select. This appends &Random to the effect name in the model effect list. (For a definition of random effects, see Random Effects .) Random effects can also be specified in a separate effects tab.
In econometrics, random effects models are used in the analysis of hierarchical or panel data when one assumes no fixed effects (it allows for individual effects). The random effects model is a special case of the fixed effects model. There are two common assumptions made about the individual specific effect, the random effects assumption and the fixed effects assumption. The random effects assumption (made in a random effects model) is that the individual specific effects are uncorrelated with the independent variables. The fixed effect assumption is that the individual specific effect is correlated with the independent variables
In summary. . . If you use a particular definition of fixed and random effects, don’t automatically assume that the other definitions apply also. For example, if an effect is interesting in itself (see definition 2), it is not necessary to estimate it using least squares (see definition 5). People are always asking me if I want to use a fixed or random effects model for this or that. I always reply that these terms have no agreed-upon definition. People with their own favorite definition of “fixed and random effects” don’t always realize that other definitions are out there.
8xtreg— Fixed-, between-, and random-effects and population-averaged linear models The following option is available with xtreg but is not shown in the dialog box:coeflegend; see[ R ] estimation options. xtreg— Fixed-, between-, and random-effects and population-averaged linear models 9 More is required to justify the between estimator of(2), but the conditioning on the sample is notassumed because  i + i is treated as an error term.
(See Random Effects .) Such models are also called variance component models. Random effect models are often hierarchical models. A model that contains both fixed and random effects is called a mixed model. Repeated measures and split-plot models are special cases of mixed models. Often the term mixed model is used to subsume random effect models. To specify a random effect, highlight it in the Construct Model Effects list and select. This appends &Random to the effect name in the model effect list. (For a definition of random effects, see Random Effects .) Random effects can also be specified in a separate effects tab.