How to Dress in a Gamine Style. The gamine style is sweet, childlike, gentle, innocent and adorably charming. Gamine is originally a French word that means waif or playful child. But since the time of Audrey Hepburn (the original gamine), it has been used to describe a slim, boyish, doe eyed girl with mischievous and innocent childlike appeal. In this article, you'll discover some ways to adapt the gamine style to your own needs.
Gamine Hairstyles. Gamine hairstyles are sleek and chic styles that are quickly emerging as a very popular choice among many women. The Gamine Haircut. This style originally emerged in the sixties and seventies as a style fitted for small framed individuals with sharp features. 
In 1997 the publisher HarperCollins drew up a list of 101 words – one a year – that defined the years 1896 to 1997. Gamine was chosen for 1899, being described by Philip Howard in The Times as follows: An elfish young woman. Audrey Hepburn in Roman Holiday was the archetypal, unforgettable, adorable gamine. It was used in English from about the mid-19th century (for example, by William Makepeace Thackeray in 1840 in one of his Parisian sketches), but in the 20th century, came to be applied in its more modern sense.
Beano, TSM. If you haven’t heard of PSY or his internet sensation ‘Gangnam Style,’ you obviously have not been in-tune with anything related to pop-culture (not that that is a bad thing). According to an interview PSY did with NPR, Gangnam is a territory in Seoul, Korea. I describe it as noble at the daytime and going crazy at the night time. I compare ladies to the territory. So — noble at the daytime, going crazy at the night time — and the lyric says I am the right guy for the lady who is like that.
A gamine is a slim, often boyish, elegant, wide-eyed young woman who is, or is perceived to be, mischievous, teasing or sexually appealing. The word gamine is a French word, the feminine form of gamin, originally meaning urchin, waif or playful, naughty child. It was used in English from about the mid-19th century (for example, by William Makepeace Thackeray in 1840 in one of his Parisian sketches), but in the 20th century, came to be applied in its more modern sense.
Gamine has been used particularly of such women in the performing arts or world of fashion. In that context, the closest English word – of Anglo-Norman origin – is probably waif (although gamine is often seen as conveying an additional sense of style and chic). It was used in English from about the mid-19th century (for example, by William Makepeace Thackeray in 1840 in one of his Parisian sketches), but in the 20th century, came to be applied in its more modern sense.
Soft Gamine vs. Ingenue. One of the notable things about Kibbe’s system is that it lacks the Ingenue category. If you look at the quiz, A answers are Dramatic, B are Natural, C is Classic, E is Romantic, and mixed A and E is Gamine. But he does not mention Ingenue, nor what the D category means, at all.
Understand that a gamine is an innocent and childlike person. AS a gamine, you might want to keep it quite simple, yet quite romantic. However, this doesn't mean you can't make your outfits more boyish if you prefer to, because, after all, a gamine is a 'street urchin' and a 'girl of impish appeal'. But since the time of Audrey Hepburn (the original gamine), it has been used to describe a slim, boyish, doe eyed girl with mischievous and innocent childlike appeal. In this article, you'll discover some ways to adapt the gamine style to your own needs.
One of the notable things about Kibbe’s system is that it lacks the Ingenue category. If you look at the quiz, A answers are Dramatic, B are Natural, C is Classic, E is Romantic, and mixed A and E is Gamine. But he does not mention Ingenue, nor what the D category means, at all. The D answers correlate to the Ingenue answers for systems that do have this category. I think it’s important here to clarify the major difference between Soft Gamine and Ingenue, and that is the amount of yin. In McJimsey ‘s interpretation, the Ingenue is the polar opposite of Dramatic.