If the heart valve leak is severe, it may impair the forward flow of blood. This can cause symptoms of congestive heart failure, which include: 1  Shortness of breath, especially with exertion or when lying flat. 2  Leg swelling or fluid retention elsewhere in the body. Any of the four valves can become leaky. This means that just after the heart squeezes and pumps blood forward, some blood will leak backward through the valve. Leaking through the valve is also called valve regurgitation.
Except the mitral valve, each valve typically has three flaps. The mitral valve has two flaps. Any of the four valves can become leaky. This means that just after the heart squeezes and pumps blood forward, some blood will leak backward through the valve. Leaking through the valve is also called valve regurgitation.
1 Mitral regurgitation is the most common type of valve problem. 2  Aortic valve regurgitation may stem from a congenital heart defect, complications of an infection or other more rare causes. 3  Pulmonary or spumoni regurgitation is more rare and is usually a result of other problems like pulmonary hypertension. Valve regurgitation can come on suddenly or it may develop gradually over decades. Read more about regurgitation and specific valves: 1 
A leaky heart valve might go unnoticed. Or it could cause health problems that could be either minor or serious. How serious a leaky heart valve is depends on how much it interferes with normal blood flow through the heart. Treatments include medicines, surgical repair, or surgical replacement of the leaky valve. Any of the four valves can become leaky. This means that just after the heart squeezes and pumps blood forward, some blood will leak backward through the valve. Leaking through the valve is also called valve regurgitation.
Regurgitation is the name for leaking heart valves. Sometimes the condition is minor and may not require treatment, but other times valve regurgitation places a strain on the heart. It can cause the heart to work harder to pump the same amount of blood. Regurgitation occurs when: Valve regurgitation can come on suddenly or it may develop gradually over decades. Read more about regurgitation and specific valves: 1  Mitral regurgitation is the most common type of valve problem. 2  Aortic valve regurgitation may stem from a congenital heart defect, complications of an infection or other more rare causes.
In this article. Mitral valve prolapse is a common cause of a heart murmur caused by a leaky heart valve. Most cases of mitral valve prolapse are not serious and only need to be monitored. Mitral valve prolapse is associated with many other symptoms and conditions. The chest pain may be very bothersome and frightening, but it does not increase the risk of heart attack, death, or other heart problems. Mitral valve prolapse is the most common cause of mitral regurgitation. That's a condition in which some blood flows backward through the mitral valve with each heartbeat.
Chest pain is the most frequent symptom in people who have symptoms with mitral valve prolapse. The chest pain may be very bothersome and frightening, but it does not increase the risk of heart attack, death, or other heart problems. Mitral valve prolapse is the most common cause of mitral regurgitation. That's a condition in which some blood flows backward through the mitral valve with each heartbeat. Over years, moderate or severe mitral regurgitation can cause weakness of the heart muscle, known as congestive heart failur
Many patients with mitral valve disease are asymptomatic (have no symptoms), even with a leak that is severe. When symptoms develop, they include shortness of breath, fatigue, loss of energy, swelling of the ankles and palpitations (extra or skipped heart beats). 
Heart valve repair or replacement surgery is a treatment option for valvular heart disease. When heart valves become damaged or diseased, they may not function properly. Conditions which may cause heart valve dysfunction are valvular stenosis and valvular insufficiency (regurgitation). 
Watch an animation of mitral valve regurgitation. A leaking mitral valve allows blood to flow in two directions during the contraction. Some blood flows from the ventricle through the aortic valve — as it should — and some blood flows back into the atrium. If regurgitation is severe enough, the forward flow of blood is reduced enough to cause heart failure (when the heart does not pump enough blood to the body) which may produce also symptoms ranging from shortness of breath during exertion, coughing, congestion around the heart and lungs, swelling of the legs and feet.