The first 10 amendments are known as the Bill of Rights. 1. Freedom of Religion, Press, and Speech 2. Right to Bear Arms 3. Quartering of soldiers 4. Search and Seizure … 5. Trial and Punishment, Compensation for Taking, Double Jeopardy 6.Right to speedy trial 7. Trial by Jury 8. Cruel and unusual punishment 9. The First Amendment protects five of the most basic liberties that we actually take for granted. Freedom of speech Freedom of press Freedom to petition the government Freedom of religion Freedom to peacefully assemble with only minimal government regulation.
First Amendment freedoms are most in danger when the government seeks to control thought or to justify its laws for that impermissible end. The right to think is the beginning of freedom, and speech must be protected from the government because speech is the beginning of thought. . . in the words of Jefferson, the [First Amendment] clause against establishment of religion by law was intended to erect 'a wall of separation between church and State' . . . That wall must be kept high and impregnable.
The First Amendment, sometimes called Amendment 1, is the first amendment to the United States Constitution and is also one out of ten amendments in the Bill of Rights. Here are some explanations on what exactly they mean. Freedom of religion: The First Amendment of the United States Constitution prevents the government from setting up or establishing an official religion of the country.
First Amendment: An Overview. The First Amendment of the United States Constitution protects the right to freedom of religion and freedom of expression from government interference. See U.S. Const. amend. I. Despite popular misunderstanding the right to freedom of the press guaranteed by the first amendment is not very different from the right to freedom of speech. It allows an individual to express themselves through publication and dissemination.
The First Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees US citizens several rights. These rights are freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom to peaceably ass … emble, and the freedom to petition the government for a redress of grievances. The First Amendment protects five of the most basic liberties that we actually take for granted. Freedom of speech Freedom of press Freedom to petition the government Freedom of religion Freedom to peacefully assemble with only minimal government regulation.
The first ten amendments to the Constitution of the United States of America are called The Bill of Rights. They are not there to safeguard the rights of an individual but to … restrict Congress and the government. Citizens must be forever vigilant to protect their rights. 
first amendment. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.
The First Amendment of the United States Constitution protects the right to freedom of religion and freedom of expression from government interference. See U.S. Const. amend. Despite popular misunderstanding the right to freedom of the press guaranteed by the first amendment is not very different from the right to freedom of speech. It allows an individual to express themselves through publication and dissemination.
About the First Amendment. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. 
First Amendment. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press, or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petitition the Government for a redress of grievances. ARTICLES in addition to, and Amendment of the Constitution of the United States of America, proposed by Congress, and ratified by the Legislatures of the several States, pursuant to the fifth Article of the original Constitution.