The name Lisa is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Lisa is: Devoted to God. American Meaning: The name Lisa is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lisa is: Devoted to God. Hebrew Meaning: The name Lisa is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Lisa is: or Elizabeth, from Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Also a diminutive of Bethia (daughter or worshipper of God), and of Bethany, a New Testament village near Jerusalem. In Greek the meaning of the name Lisa is: From the Hebrew Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Also, the lilly flower. English Meaning: The name Lisa is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lisa is: Oath of God. My God is bountiful.
Lisa means a female who is devoted to god. The name Lisa, Lissa or Liza initially gained popularity in the UK in the 1960s. This was the fifth most popular name in UK in 1974 and continued to remain popular for next decade. In the USA Lisa was very popular in 1960s. 
Hebrew Name Meaning-Diminutive of Elisabeth or Elizabeth, from Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Also a diminutive of Bethia (daughter or worshipper of God), and of Bethany, a New Testament village near Jerusalem.. Other origins for the name Lisa include-Hebrew, Israeli, English, German.The name Lisa is most often used as a girl name or female name.
Lisa is a variant spelling of Liza. Lisa is a diminutive (nickname) of Elizabeth. The Hebrew name Elisheva, appears in the Old Testament where Elisheva is the wife of Aaron. The name Elizabeth appears in the New Testament where Elizabeth is the mother of John the Baptist. What does Lisa mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Lisa is of English origin. The meaning of Lisa is my G-d is an oath, pledged to G-d.
Lisa /lisa/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced LEE-sah. It is of English and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Lisa is  God is my oath . Short form of Elisabeth. Actresses Lisa Bonet, Lisa Kudrow; talk show host Leeza Gibbons; basketball player Lisa Leslie. 
Greek Meaning: The name Lisa is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Lisa is: From the Hebrew Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Also, the lilly flower. English Meaning: The name Lisa is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lisa is: Oath of God. My God is bountiful.
Also a diminutive of Bethia (daughter or worshipper of God), and of Bethany, a New Testament village near Jerusalem. Greek Female Diminutive of Elizabeth: From the Hebrew Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Also, the lilly flower. German Female Devoted to God. English Female Diminutive of Elizabeth: Oath of God. My God is bountiful. Lisa is often used as an independent first name. 
[ 2 syll. li-sa, lis-a ] The baby girl name Lisa is pronounced L IY-Sah (English) or L IY-Zaa (German) †. Lisa's language of origin is Hebrew, and it is predominantly used in Albanian, Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, and Scandinavian. Biblical name: The name first developed as a diminutive of Elisabeth. Tweet. The origin and thus the meaning of the name Lisa is inherited by all variant forms. See also the related forms, Analisa, Annalise, Carlisa, Janalisa, Jelisa, Jillisa, Jolisa, Julissa, Kalisa, Lisamaria, Lisanne, Marialisa, Marisa, Marlisa, Shalisa, Shelisa, and Talisa.
Meaning of Lisa. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Lisa means-Diminutive of Elisabeth or Elizabeth, from Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Also a diminutive of Bethia (daughter or worshipper of God), and of Bethany, a New Testament village near Jerusalem.. Other origins for the name Lisa include-Hebrew, Israeli, English, German.The name Lisa is most often used as a girl name or female name.