Confidence votes 110. Reeds were used for making houses back in the Mesopotamian time. They were the most common items used to build homes. Reeds are also used with clarinets.It is an object used on the mouthpiece that vibrates and makes the sound.I know this because I play the clarinet myself... On the intake / compression stroke, the reeds are pulled open, exposing the holes milled into the plate, or cage, allowing the fuel charge to be pulled into the engine crankcase from the carburetor.
Reeds are perennial grasses which are classically distinguished by having hollow stems and broad leaves. These grasses typically grow in wetlands, and they can be found throughout the temperate and tropical regions of the world, with some reed types growing in colder environments. Common reeds can also be trimmed and fired to make crude charcoal pencils or pen nibs, and they can be pulped to make a coarse form of paper, as well. The reed which lends its name to the reeds in musical instruments is Arundo donax, the giant reed.
A reed is a thin strip of material which vibrates to produce a sound on a musical instrument. The reeds of most woodwind instruments are made from Arundo donax (Giant cane) or synthetic material; tuned reeds (as in harmonicas and accordions) are made of metal or synthetics. In a box of 10 reeds, not every reed will be usable. This needs to be understood from the beginning. Because reeds change with climate, reeds that are too soft can be kept in the hopes that they will eventually change with the climate and become thicker, but there is nothing else that can be done to them.
The common reed is probably the most famous and widely distributed reed. Common reeds have been used in roof thatching for centuries, and it has also been used to make baskets and woven reed mats. Common reeds can also be trimmed and fired to make crude charcoal pencils or pen nibs, and they can be pulped to make a coarse form of paper, as well. The reed which lends its name to the reeds in musical instruments is Arundo donax, the giant reed.
The reed, together with the mouthpiece onto which the reed is fixed makes the air in the instrument vibrate when you blow into it (technically speaking: create acoustic waves). So the reed is a very important part of a clarinet. When you close your lips around the mouthpiece and the reed and blow, a tone is created. Technically speaking, the reed together with the mouthpiece work as a valve that opens and closes: The air presses the reed against the opening of the mouthpiece so that the stream of air is blocked.
The reeds are made of a reed grass that originally grows in the Mediterranean, called Arundo Donax. Arundo Donax is quite similar in appearance to Bamboo but not as hard. The plant grows to its full size within a year. When you close your lips around the mouthpiece and the reed and blow, a tone is created. Technically speaking, the reed together with the mouthpiece work as a valve that opens and closes: The air presses the reed against the opening of the mouthpiece so that the stream of air is blocked.
Single reeds are used on the mouthpieces of clarinets and saxophones. The back of the reed is flat and is placed against the mouthpiece, the rounded top side tapers to a thin tip. These reeds are roughly rectangular in shape except for the thin vibrating tip, which is curved to match the curve of the mouthpiece tip. In a box of 10 reeds, not every reed will be usable. This needs to be understood from the beginning. Because reeds change with climate, reeds that are too soft can be kept in the hopes that they will eventually change with the climate and become thicker, but there is nothing else that can be done to them.
Phragmites australis, the common reed, is used in many areas for thatching roofs. In the United Kingdom, common reed used for this purpose is known as Norfolk reed or water reed. However, wheat reed and Devon reed are not in fact reed at all, but long-stemmed wheat straw. 
There are many to choose from, and all brands make and sell their reeds a little differently. Rico, a US brand, is popular with all clarinetists, and is often recommended for beginners. It also makes reeds under the La Voz and Mitchell Lurie names. Vandoren (which also makes mouthpieces) is a popular French brand. How to Choose a Reed for a Clarinet. While every part of the clarinet has its own purpose in producing a good sound, perhaps the most important piece is the two-and-a-half inch long, wafer-thin piece of cane called the reed.