Chicory and Jerusalem Artichoke. Chicory and Jerusalem artichoke are particularly high in inulin and oligofructose, and these foods are commonly used as commercial sources of inulin. (See Reference 2) Chicory root contains 15 to 20 percent inulin and five to 10 percent oligofructose. (See Reference 7-9)
Inulin is a type of fiber that's found in certain plant foods. Chicory root is the main source of inulin in supplement form. Chicory was originally found in Europe and Asia. Egyptians grew it thousands of years ago as a medicine. Many foods -- and plants that are less commonly eaten -- contain inulin. These include: 1  Asparagus. 2  Bananas. 3  Burdock. 4  Chicory, which is used in salads. 5  Dandelion root. 6  Garlic. 7  Jerusalem artichokes. 8  Leeks.
Inulin foods contain what are known as super-complex carbohydrates. Insulin fiber in addition to serving as a food additive substitute for sugar promotes healthy gut flora, the ultimate prebiotic. Prebiotic foods with insulin including bananas, corn, and garlic are low gi making it easier to control blood sugar. The Jerusalem artichoke is one of the top 3 foods high in inulin fiber alongside chicory root and asparagus. It is a tuber (potatoes-like vegetable) weighing between 75 and 200g dry. In addition to being a good source of other valuable nutrients, the Jerusalem artichoke is considerably high in potassium.
Inulin is increasingly used in processed foods because it has unusually adaptable characteristics. Its flavour ranges from bland to subtly sweet (about 10% of the sweetness of sugar/sucrose). It can be used to replace sugar, fat, and flour. This is advantageous because inulin contains 25-35% of the food energy of carbohydrates (starch, sugar). In addition to being a versatile ingredient, inulin has many health benefits. It increases calcium absorption and possibly magnesium absorption, while promoting the growth of beneficial intestinal bacteria.
Inulin is a natural storage carbohydrate present in more than 36,000 species of plants, including wheat, onion, bananas, garlic, asparagus, sunchoke and chicory. For these plants, inulin is used as an energy reserve and for regulating cold resistance. Because it is soluble in water, it is osmotically active. This is advantageous because inulin contains 25-35% of the food energy of carbohydrates (starch, sugar). In addition to being a versatile ingredient, inulin has many health benefits. It increases calcium absorption and possibly magnesium absorption, while promoting the growth of beneficial intestinal bacteria.
Furthermore, inulin has a multitude of characteristics beneficial to functional foods. The use of non-digestible oligosaccharides (inulin) can improve taste, texture, and moisture in many foods. Inulin has gelling characteristics that can be used to make low fat cheeses, sauces, soups and table spreads. Natural Sources of Inulin. Inulin is naturally present in many different foods. Some every day foods, such as asparagus, leek, onions, banana, wheat and garlic are sources of inulin. Higher concentrations exist in herbs. Dandelion root, elecampane root and chicory root all have large amounts of inulin
List of foods containing inulin. Foods with inulin such as chicory root, onions, bananas, corn, and garlic gives your health benefiting inulin fiber without having to resort to supplements that tend to be costly in the long term. The Jerusalem artichoke is one of the top 3 foods high in inulin fiber alongside chicory root and asparagus. It is a tuber (potatoes-like vegetable) weighing between 75 and 200g dry. In addition to being a good source of other valuable nutrients, the Jerusalem artichoke is considerably high in potassium.
Here are some facts about this little-known dietary fiber. What is inulin? Inulin is a specific type of dietary fiber that is naturally found in hundreds of common foods such as leeks, artichokes, asparagus, onions, garlic, bananas, wheat, rye, and…chicory root. As with anything, remember that more is not necessarily better. There are no reports of inulin toxicity. However, it is still best to stick with foods naturally high in inulin such as onions, artichokes, bananas, asparagus, and garlic. These foods have centuries behind them to prove they are safe to eat.