Occupational therapy will continue to be an important part of treatment for people with various illnesses and disabilities, such as Alzheimer’s disease, cerebral palsy, autism, or the loss of a limb. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median salary for occupational therapists is $75,400. Occupational therapists use the occupations of self-care, work, and play/leisure activities to increase independence, enhance development, and/or prevent disability. To achieve these goals occupational therapists may also adapt the task or the environment.
In its simplest terms, occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants help people across the lifespan participate in the things they want and need to do through the therapeutic use of everyday activities (occupations). 
Occupational therapists work in a variety of settings. These could include hospitals, rehabilitation centers, nursing facilities, home health, outpatient clinics, private practice, school systems, private organizations, industry, and community agencies such as return to work programs, prisons, and community settings. Occupational therapists use the occupations of self-care, work, and play/leisure activities to increase independence, enhance development, and/or prevent disability. To achieve these goals occupational therapists may also adapt the task or the environment.
Occupational therapy is a health and rehabilitation profession. Occupational therapists work with people of all ages who need specialized assistance to lead independent, productive, and satisfying lives due to physical, developmental, social, or emotional problems. Occupational therapists use the occupations of self-care, work, and play/leisure activities to increase independence, enhance development, and/or prevent disability. To achieve these goals occupational therapists may also adapt the task or the environment.
2. You have exceptional people skills: Occupational therapists work with people of all ages who have disabilities, injuries, or mental problems. Some clients may have a bad day once in a while, while others are frustrated, angry, and upset all the time. As an occupational therapist, you will only succeed after your clients do—but oh boy, it can be rewarding! Unlike other types of therapy, occupational therapy takes a holistic approach and deals with the whole person rather than focusing on one specific problem.
To be an occupational. Anonymous on Thu, 12/27/2012 - 11:41 PM. To be an occupational therapist, you must have a good communication and strong interpersonal skills that could teach in emt classes orange county for the students to help a patients for performing a work activities someday. 1  reply.
Hear what the pros have to say about being a occupational therapist and what it takes mentally, emotionally, and physically to succeed in the field. Home » Advice for Future & Current Students » Successful Occupational Therapists. As an occupational therapist, you will only succeed after your clients do—but oh boy, it can be rewarding! Unlike other types of therapy, occupational therapy takes a holistic approach and deals with the whole person rather than focusing on one specific problem.
Occupational therapists use special equipment to help children with developmental disabilities. Occupational therapists treat injured, ill, or disabled patients through the therapeutic use of everyday activities. They help these patients develop, recover, and improve the skills needed for daily living and working. Communication skills. Occupational therapists must be able to listen attentively to what patients tell them and be able to explain what they want their patients to do. Compassion. Occupational therapists are usually drawn to the profession by a desire to help people and improve the daily lives of others. Flexibility