Another cause of white tongue is thrush, which is a yeast infection in the mouth and requires treatment. Other less likely conditions which cause a white tongue are leukoplakia which is a potential precursor to cancer and oral lichen planus which causes a lacy white pattern on your tongue and its cause is often unknown. Another common reason for a white tongue in the morning is if you have been breathing through your mouth instead of your nose the night before which will dry out your mouth. This is commonly due to allergies or a cold. Dehydration, smoking, and medications that cause dry mouth can also cause a white tongue.
A white tongue is white discoloration of all or a part of the tongue, an organ that is composed mainly of muscle. Your tongue may look like it has a white coating or white patches or spots, and may or may not be painful. A white tongue may be caused by a coating of dead cells and debris, which can accumulate due to poor oral hygiene, excessive alcohol use, smoking, or dehydration.
Often, a white tongue could be caused by a removable coating of food debris or bacterial plaque. Otherwise, the following are some common causes of white tongue -- a fungal infection referred to as oral thrush, leukoplakia, oral lichen planus, hairy leukoplakia, and linea alba. 
Inflammation and whitening of the tongue can also occur due to dryness or environmental irritants such as smoking or other tobacco use, and may be associated with bad breath. Inflammation of the tongue is known as glossitis. Some white patches on the tongue, known as leukoplakia, can be precancerous lesions. Geographic tongue is a condition in which some areas of the tongue lack the papillae normally present on the tongue surface, resulting in irregular red patches on the tongue with a white border. Thrush (Oral Candidiasis) Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus. Symptoms of Thrush include pain or difficulty swallowing, a...learn more ». Thrush and Other Yeast Infections in Children Yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of a type of fungus called Candida.
Definition. White tongue is a coating of debris, bacteria and dead cells on your tongue that makes it look white. Although the appearance of white tongue may be alarming, the condition is usually harmless and temporary
Causes. White tongue is the result of an overgrowth and swelling of the fingerlike projections (papillae) on the surface of your tongue. The appearance of a white coating is caused by debris, bacteria and dead cells getting lodged between the enlarged and sometimes inflamed papillae
Whitening of the tongue can occur when there is a buildup or coating of bacteria and debris on the surface of the tongue due to mild dehydration, illness (when there is less use of the tongue for talking or eating), or dryness of the mouth. Thrush (Oral Candidiasis) Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus. Symptoms of Thrush include pain or difficulty swallowing, a...learn more ». Thrush and Other Yeast Infections in Children Yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of a type of fungus called Candida.
White patches on the tongue of a tobacco user could be a sign the person is at risk of developing cancer. In some cases, a white tongue can be treated by practicing good oral hygiene. Many conditions causing white tongue can be easily treated with good oral hygiene or avoiding tobacco. 