Oakum and tools for caulking. Hemp. Prisoners picking oakum at Coldbath Fields Prison in London. Oakum is a preparation of tarred fibre used in shipbuilding for caulking or packing the joints of timbers in wooden vessels and the deck planking of iron and steel ships, as well as cast iron pipe plumbing applications. Oakum can be used to seal cast iron pipe drains. After setting the pipes together, workers pack oakum into the joints, then pour molten lead into the joint to create a permanent seal.
Noun. 1. oakum-loose hemp or jute fiber obtained by unravelling old ropes; when impregnated with tar it was used to caulk seams and pack joints in wooden ships. fiber, fibre-a slender and greatly elongated substance capable of being spun into yarn.
Our Oakum caulking is made with bentonite, an inorganic compound that expands over 10 times its volume when wet. It is clean from knots and yarns, is long stranded and has no lumps or ends of sacking. 5 lb. box. Twisted jute packing. 5 lbs. yields 30 lengths of 2-1/2 ft. each. 
Oakum was at one time recycled from old tarry ropes and cordage, which were painstakingly unravelled and taken apart into fibre. This task of picking and preparation was a common penal occupation in prisons and workhouses. In modern times, the fibrous material used in oakum comes from virgin hemp or jute. The fibers are impregnated with tar or a tar-like substance, traditionally pine tar (also called 'Stockholm tar'), an amber-coloured pitch made from pine sap. Tar-like petroleum by-products can also be used for modern oakum. Oakum can be used to seal cast iron pipe drains. After setting the pipes together, workers pack oakum into the joints, then pour molten lead into the joint to create a permanent seal.
Oakum is a preparation of tarred fiber used in shipbuilding, for caulking or packing the joints of timbers in wooden vessels and the deck planking of iron and steel ships, as well as cast iron pipe plumbing applications. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: oakum (noun). loose hemp or jute fiber obtained by unravelling old ropes; when impregnated with tar it was used to caulk seams and pack joints in wooden ships.
Definition of OAKUM. : loosely twisted hemp or jute fiber impregnated with tar or a tar derivative and used in caulking seams and packing joints. See oakum defined for kids.
Oakum. Oakum can be used between the logs to seal out the elements...and in traditional wooden boat building...and some plumbing with caste iron pipes...placed in the control joints in concrete (we've heard both vertical and horizontal)...lots of uses. Oiled Oakum can be used between the logs, in traditional log home building, to seal out the elements...and in traditional wooden boat building...and some plumbing with caste iron pipes... Starting at $7.95.
• OAKUM (noun). The noun OAKUM has 1 sense: 1. loose hemp or jute fiber obtained by unravelling old ropes; when impregnated with tar it was used to caulk seams and pack joints in wooden ships. Familiarity information: OAKUM used as a noun is very rare. 
Definition. A caulking material made from hemp fibers that are sometimes saturated with tar. Oakum is commonly used with a bell-and-spigot joint in cast iron pipe. Oakum is packed into the joint with a hammer and chisel before molten lead is poured into the joint to seal it. Print | Cite This Source | Link to This Page