Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. Lean principles are derived from the Japanese manufacturing industry. The term was first coined by John Krafcik in his 1988 article, Triumph of the Lean Production System, based on his master's thesis at the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Lean management is an approach to running an organization that supports the concept of continuous improvement, a long-term approach to work that systematically seeks to achieve small, incremental changes in processes in order to improve efficiency and quality. The philosophy has its roots in manufacturing. Guiding principles for lean management include: 1  Defining value from the standpoint of the end customer. 2  Identifying each step in a business process and eliminating those steps that do not create value. 3  Making the value-creating steps occur in tight sequence.
Definition. Doing more with less by employing 'lean thinking.' Lean manufacturing involves never ending efforts to eliminate or reduce ' muda ' (Japanese for waste or any activity that consumes resources without adding value) in design, manufacturing, distribution, and customer service processes. Show more usage examples... A forever thorn in the side of the cotton pickers of Macon, Georgia was lean manufacturing, because when the cotton gin was invented there was no need for over half of the workers in the field, making for lean times too.
Lean Production. Submitted by Anonymous on. Lean production is the term given to a range of measures traditionally used by Japanese businesses in an attempt to reduce waste and costs in production.
To accomplish this, lean thinking changes the focus of management from optimizing separate technologies, assets, and vertical departments to optimizing the flow of products and services through entire value streams that flow horizontally across technologies, assets, and departments to customers. Not true. Lean applies in every business and every process. It is not a tactic or a cost reduction program, but a way of thinking and acting for an entire organization. Businesses in all industries and services, including healthcare and governments, are using lean principles as the way they think and do.
So what is Lean? The concept of “lean” is based on the principles of the Toyota Production System (TPS). TPS was developed with the objective of identifying and reducing wasteful activities in manufacturing processes through education and involvement of the workforce in order to better serve customers. 
The core idea is to maximize customer value while minimizing waste. Simply, lean means creating more value for customers with fewer resources. A lean organization understands customer value and focuses its key processes to continuously increase it. The ultimate goal is to provide perfect value to the customer through a perfect value creation process that has zero waste. Not true. Lean applies in every business and every process. It is not a tactic or a cost reduction program, but a way of thinking and acting for an entire organization. Businesses in all industries and services, including healthcare and governments, are using lean principles as the way they think and do.
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. Lean principles are derived from the Japanese manufacturing industry. The term was first coined by John Krafcik in his 1988 article, Triumph of the Lean Production System, based on his master's thesis at the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Lean Manufacturing (also known as the Toyota Production System) is, in it's most basic form, the systematic elimination of waste-overproduction, waiting, transportation, inventory, motion, over-processing, defective units-and the implementation of the concepts of continuous flow and customer pull. 
Lean production is an assembly-line methodology developed originally for Toyota and the manufacturing of automobiles. It is also known as the Toyota Production System or just-in-time production. Lean production principles are also referred to as lean management or lean thinking. Engineer Taiichi Ohno is credited with developing the principles of lean production after World War II. His philosophy, which focused on eliminating waste and empowering workers, reduced inventory and improved productivity.