Helper T cells help B cells in this process. Plasma cells produce antibodies that are specific to the antigen that stimulated their production. After the first encounter with an antigen, production of enough of the specific antibody takes several days. Thus, the primary immune response is slow. 
Antibodies are manufactured by the lymph system. Antibodies are specialized proteins that the body produces in response to invasion by a foreign substance. The process of antibody formation begins when an antigen stimulates specialized lymphocytes, called B cells, into action. 
Antigens are chemicals on the surface of a cell. All cells have these. The immune system checks cells and identifies them as self or non-self. Antibodies are proteins produced by certain lymphocytes in response to a specific antigen. B-lymphocytes and T-lymphocytes produce the antibodies. B-lymphocytes become plasma cells which then generate antibodies. T-lymphocytes attack cells which bear antigens they recognize. Bone marrow contains tissue that produces lymphocytes. B-lymphocytes (B-cells) mature in the bone marrow. T-lymphocytes (T-cells) mature in the thymus gland. Other blood cells such as monocytes and leukocytes are produced
They are B lymphocytes (B cells) and T lymphocytes (T cells). B cells. B cells develop from bone marrow stem cells in adults. When B cells become activated due to the presence of a particular antigen, they create antibodies that are specific to that specific antigen.
T cells. t lymphocytes. small lymphocytes that mature in the thymus as a result of exposure to the hormone thymosin which is secreted by the thymus, contribute to immune defense by coordinating immune defenses and killing infected cells on contact.
Lymphocytes are divided mainly into B and T cells. 1  B lymphocytes produce antibodies-proteins (gamma globulins) that recognize foreign substances (antigen) and attach themselves to them. 2  B lymphocytes (or B cells) are each programmed to make one specific antibody. The Immune system is a complex network of cells (such as lymphocytes) and organs that work together to defend the body against foreign substances (antigens) such as bacteria, a virus or tumor cell. When the body discovers such a substance several kinds of cells go into action in what is called an immune response.
1 B lymphocytes produce antibodies-proteins (gamma globulins) that recognize foreign substances (antigen) and attach themselves to them. 2  B lymphocytes (or B cells) are each programmed to make one specific antibody. 3  When a B cell comes across its triggering antigen it gives rise to many large cells known as plasma cells. The Immune system is a complex network of cells (such as lymphocytes) and organs that work together to defend the body against foreign substances (antigens) such as bacteria, a virus or tumor cell. When the body discovers such a substance several kinds of cells go into action in what is called an immune response.
Lymphocytes. A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell that is part of the immune system. There are two main types of lymphocytes: B cells and T cells. The B cells produce antibodies that are used to attack invading bacteria, viruses, and toxins. The T cells destroy the body's own cells that have themselves been taken over by viruses or become cancerous.