Perhaps the most eye-catching feature of this stingray is its long, whip-like tail, which may be 2.5 times as long as the body. The many thorny plates, or tubercles, on the outer parts of the body, or disc, and along the base of the tail give this species its common name, roughtail.
Like in most whiptail stingrays, the Southern Stingray’s tail is very long, often longer than the body width. This species reproduces via internal fertilization and gives live birth. However, Southern Stingrays do not connect to their young through a placenta, like in most mammals.
Whiptail Stingrays generally inhabit shallow coastlines down to 100 or 200 meters but some species can be found at 600 meters or more. Reproduction. All Whiptail Stingrays are ovoviviparous. (A mode of reproduction in which the embryo is contained within a membranous egg case.
Dasyatidae-whiptail stingrays. There are around 69 species in this family. Most species are found in shallow tropical and subtropical oceans around the world, although some species in Africa and South America are found in rivers and lakes.
The river stingrays, and a number of whiptail stingrays (such as the Niger stingray), are restricted to fresh water. Most myliobatoids are demersal, but some, such as the pelagic stingray and the eagle rays, are pelagic.
Share. The Southern Stingray is a moderately sized whiptail stingray native to the western Atlantic Ocean. Unlike the eagle rays, the Southern Stingray spends much of its time in contact with the seafloor, often buried in soft sediment with only its large eyes uncovered.
Learn more about this article. The whiptail stingrays are a family, Dasyatidae, of rays in the order Myliobatiformes. They are found worldwide in tropical to temperate marine waters, and a number of species have also penetrated into fresh water in North America, Africa, Asia, and Australia.
The whiptail stingray family has 8 genera and approximately 88 species, several of which can be found in aquarium stores. Dasyatid rays have a large spine (or spines) on the tail, sheathed in venomous tissue; the spines are used as defensive weapons.