Thermage Cost. Thermage can cost from $900 - $4000, depending on area and degree of work. The old (original) protocol of one or possibly two treatments was very painful. Newer protocols entail more treatments over time with less discomfor
1 Thermage, a patented procedure that has been described as a non-surgical facelift, usually costs between $1,000 and $5,000 per treatment, with an average of $2,000, according to A Board Certified Plastic Surgeon Resource. 2  Often, only one treatment is required, but some patients will need more. 1 Derma Network gives a description of the Thermage procedure. 2  After the procedure, some improvements will be immediately visible, but skin should continue to get tighter and firmer for about six months afterward.
Thermage Cost. The cost of a Thermage treatment may range between $2,500 and $9,000 depending on where you live and other factors. This is merely a guide and may not accurately reflect the price for your treatment. Talk to your doctor to discuss your options
Thermage® Cost and Financing. updated. Thermage® cost averages around $2000, but can fall anywhere in the $1000 to $5000 range. Although Thermage® is considered a cost-effective treatment compared with surgical alternatives such as face lift, the price may still seem daunting to some. In the United States, the average cost of a Thermage ® skin tightening treatment is between $1,000 and $5000, while a traditional facelift can cost as much as $10,000. A number of issues factor into the cost of Thermage® treatment, including:
Additional costs: 1  During a Thermage procedure, which usually lasts a few hours, the surgeon uses a hand-held device that emits radiofrequency energy to heat the deeper layers of the skin, while using a fine mist of water to cool, and prevent damage to, the outer layers of skin. 1 Derma Network gives a description of the Thermage procedure. 2  After the procedure, some improvements will be immediately visible, but skin should continue to get tighter and firmer for about six months afterward.
Cost. The cost of Thermage® skin tightening is one of its chief advantages. Averaging between $1000 and $5000, Thermage® ThermaCool® treatment is considerably less expensive than surgical facial rejuvenation alternatives, such as face lift, which can total $10,000 or more. Also, many dermatologists make payment plans and other financing options available for Thermage® patients. Thermage® treatment has the advantage of being a non-surgical procedure using relatively inexpensive equipment in a quick and simple treatment process. As a result, the average cost of Thermage® is around $2000 - much less than surgical face lifts and laser skin tightening.
Thermage® Price Breakdown. Thermage ® cost is markedly less than the cost of other, more invasive facial rejuvenation therapies. In the United States, the average cost of a Thermage ® skin tightening treatment is between $1,000 and $5000, while a traditional facelift can cost as much as $10,000. A number of issues factor into the cost of Thermage® treatment, including:
Thermage cost ranges between $1,000 and $5,000 per treatment. If the out-of-pocket cost is prohibitive, ask your surgeon about payment plans. Cost is also increased if other procedures are done in conjunction with or following Thermage. The Thermage Procedure. Thermage is typically performed in a doctor's office and may take up to an hour, depending on the size and condition of the treatment area. Thermage delivers radiofrequency energy to heat collagen, a structural protein located in the deep layers of the skin.
Related articles: Botox Treatments, Microdermabrasion, Skin Peel. 1  Thermage, a patented procedure that has been described as a non-surgical facelift, usually costs between $1,000 and $5,000 per treatment, with an average of $2,000, according to A Board Certified Plastic Surgeon Resource. 1 Derma Network gives a description of the Thermage procedure. 2  After the procedure, some improvements will be immediately visible, but skin should continue to get tighter and firmer for about six months afterward.