Graduates with a master’s degree in psychology can work as industrial-organizational psychologists. When working under the supervision of a doctoral psychologist, master’s graduates can also work as psychological assistants in clinical, counseling, or research settings. Psychologists can complete a Ph.D. in psychology or a Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) degree. A Ph.D. in psychology is a research degree that culminates in a comprehensive exam and a dissertation based on original research.
Essential Information. Psychologists study the human mind and behavior to help patients overcome emotional or psychological difficulties. Becoming a psychologist requires obtaining a master's or doctoral degree. During this process, students may perform research, work supervised clinical rotations and teach classes. They may work in a variety of specialties, such as counseling, school or clinical psychology.
Master's Degree. Your master's degree is where you will get the specialized training you need to become a licensed therapist. You will likely take classes in interpersonal, group, family, and child psychology, as well as classes on ethics in therapy, psychological theories, research methods, and clinical best practices. Before you begin formal training in graduate school to become a therapist, you will have to finish a bachelor's degree at a college or university. A major in a field such as psychology or social work can give you the strong background you will need to excel in graduate school.
Licensing Information. Child psychologists are required to be licensed by the state in which they practice. Licensing requirements vary by state. Common requirements for licensing include a degree from a doctoral program that's been accredited both regionally and by the American Psychology Association (APA). 
The Path to Becoming a Psychologist. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. A master's degree will give you a broad introduction to the field of psychology. You can then use your electives to focus your study in a particular field. Successful graduates of this program often pursue positions in education, government, human services, health care mental health care, and marketing/advertising.
Degrees Needed for a Psychology Career. There are several paths one can take to pursue a psychology career. While some may start at a four-year college or university earning bachelor’s degrees, others may first obtain associate’s degrees. For most occupations, completion of a graduate program is required. These degrees are designed to help someone transfer from a two-year institution to a four-year college or university and serve to fulfill the more general requirements for a four-year degree. For those interested in psychology, associate’s degrees in psychology and related subjects are available.
The bachelor’s degree may not need to be in the same field as the master’s program one is applying to, but schools will likely expect to see that one has taken some introductory psychology courses. Like undergraduate schools, graduate schools are interested in standardized test results in the form of the GRE. These degrees are designed to help someone transfer from a two-year institution to a four-year college or university and serve to fulfill the more general requirements for a four-year degree. For those interested in psychology, associate’s degrees in psychology and related subjects are available.
But here is a general timeline. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. A master's degree will give you a broad introduction to the field of psychology. You can then use your electives to focus your study in a particular field. Successful graduates of this program often pursue positions in education, government, human services, health care mental health care, and marketing/advertising.
Job prospects should be best for those who have a specialist degree or doctoral degree in school psychology. Employment of school psychologists will continue to grow because of the raised awareness of the connection between mental health and learning and the need for mental health services in schools. Psychologists can complete a Ph.D. in psychology or a Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) degree. A Ph.D. in psychology is a research degree that culminates in a comprehensive exam and a dissertation based on original research.
Undergraduate Level. A bachelor's degree is the minimum requirement for work in the psychology field, and competition is keen for jobs at this level. The BLS says that individuals who hold a bachelor's degree can apply for a limited number of jobs with the federal government or work as assistants to psychologists. Becoming a psychologist requires obtaining a master's or doctoral degree. During this process, students may perform research, work supervised clinical rotations and teach classes. They may work in a variety of specialties, such as counseling, school or clinical psychology.