Ash dieback fungal disease, which has infected some 90% of the species in Denmark, is threatening to devastate Britain's 80m ash population. Symptoms of the disease can be visible on leaves, shoots and branches of affected trees. Click on the panels on the guide below to learn how to spot the key signs. CLICKABLE. 
Ash dieback (Chalara fraxinea) is a fungal disease that affects ash trees. It has spread throughout much of western Europe. The disease causes die back of the tree's crown and infects the vascular system causing blockages. 
274 SEVERITY AND CAUSES OF ASH DIEBACK by Craig R. Hibben and Savel B. Silverborg Abstract. Ash dieback is a disease that causes progressivedeath of branches and tree mortality in white ash and to alesser extent in green ash (Fraxinus americana L, F. penn-sylvanica March.). It affects all-aged trees in woodland,hedgerow, streetside, and home sites
Ash dieback is caused by the fungus Hymenoscyphus fraxineus which was previously known as Chalara fraxinea. Research into the genetics of the resistance of ash (Fraxinus excelsior) has shown that resistance does occur in European populations, but, at least for the samples tested, it is neither common nor strong. Fraxinus excelsior — known as the ash, or European ash or common ash to distinguish it from other types of ash — is a species of Fraxinus native to most of Europe from Portugal to Russia, with the exception of northern Scandinavia and southern Iberia.
Ash Dieback is caused by a fungal infection, now known as Hymenoscyphus fraxineus (aka H. pseudoalbidus, or Chalara fraxinea). Ash dieback has moved rapidly across Europe since the early 1990's, decimating ash tree populations. Ash dieback symptoms include bark lesions (above) and crown dieback, leading to tree death. 80-99% of our ash trees may die from the disease within the next 20 years or so.
Chalara dieback of ash is a serious disease of ash trees caused by a fungus called Chalara fraxinea, including its sexual stage, Hymenoscyphus fraxineus. The disease causes leaf loss and crown dieback in affected trees, and is usually fatal. 
Description. Chalara dieback of ash, also known as Chalara or ash dieback, is a disease of ash trees caused by a fungus called Hymenoscyphus fraxineus. (The fungus was previously called Chalara fraxinea, hence the name of the disease. See 'The Science' below for an explanation of the name change.). Chalara dieback of ash is especially destructive of common or European ash (Fraxinus excelsior), including its ‘Pendula’ ornamental variety. Narrow-leaved ash (Fraxinus angustifolia) is also susceptible.
The disease can be confused with another disorder known as ash dieback which has been known for many years and is widespread in the UK. The disorder causes crown dieback in mature trees. The cause is unknown but it is thought to be a mainly physical rather than biological condition. Trees now believed to have been infected with this pathogen were first reported dying in Poland in 1992. It is now entrenched in Europe. It is closely related to a native fungus Hymenoscyphus albidus, which is saprotrophic and grows on the dead leaves of ash trees.
Hymenoscyphus fraxineus is an Ascomycete fungus that causes ash dieback, a chronic fungal disease of ash trees in Europe characterised by leaf loss and crown dieback in infected trees. The fungus was first scientifically described in 2006 under the name Chalara fraxinea. Trees now believed to have been infected with this pathogen were first reported dying in Poland in 1992. It is now entrenched in Europe. It is closely related to a native fungus Hymenoscyphus albidus, which is saprotrophic and grows on the dead leaves of ash trees.