In order to use Google Docs you'll want to upload some documents to work on. In this episode we show you how easy it is to upload files to Google Docs and show you how to change the privacy settings on the files that you upload. @ butterscotch.com: http://bit.ly/hoEvbL. 1  Howto & Style. 
Congratulations, you have successfully uploaded one video clip to your Google Docs account. To upload more videos, simply click the Upload more files button. Viewing and Sharing Videos From Your Google Docs Account. To view the videos, go to Google Docs and click All documents. Then click the video file that appears in the list of documents, as shown below: This will open the video in a new browser window, where you can watch it or download it to your computer, so that you can view it offline. 
1 Files that you upload but don’t convert to Google Docs format: Up to 10GB each. 2  Note that this upload limit is larger than the free storage space given to each Google Docs user. 3  Every user is given 5GB of free storage space for files, and can purchase additional Google Docs storage to upload larger files. Two Methods: Google Docs Method Gmail Method. Storing files on Google is a great way to be able to access them from anywhere without having to carry around a USB drive. To upload files (including .zip files) onto Google, use one of the following methods.
Google Docs Upload Button (All Browsers). Save all of your files to one folder on your computer and then open Google Docs to the Home screen. Step 2. Click the “Upload” button on the left side of the screen above the sidebar links to open the Upload menu. Click “Folder…” to display the Browse for Folder dialog box. Step 4. Press the “Ctrl” key on your keyboard, select the files you saved on your desktop, and then release the Ctrl key. Step 5. Select one of the file icons, drag it to Google Docs, and release the mouse key when the Documents list turns yellow. The Upload Settings dialog box opens.
Method 3 – Google’s Firefox Toolbar. The latest version of Google Toolbar for Firefox allows users to upload documents and spreadsheets directly to Google Docs. Just you need to drag the document files and drop them to Firefox. You will have to enable this feature by going to Toolbar options before using it. Install Google Toolbar from here. 
Users can upload any type of file to Google Drive and convert certain types of files to a web-based Google document format—a Google Doc, Sheet, or Slide. See Manually upload files and folders to Google Drive in the user help center to learn more. Upload files to Google Drive. If you share an uploaded file that hasn't been converted to a web-based Google document, (such as a Doc, Sheet, or Slide), both the view and edit permissions allow users to only download the file. Users can collaborate only on web-based Google documents
Related Reading: How to Copy Google Docs Files to a CD. Step 3. Click the Restore Down button in the top right corner of your browser to reduce the size of your browser window without closing it. This button is located to the left of the X that you click to close the window. Step 4. Press the “Ctrl” key on your keyboard, select the files you saved on your desktop, and then release the Ctrl key. Step 5. Select one of the file icons, drag it to Google Docs, and release the mouse key when the Documents list turns yellow. The Upload Settings dialog box opens.
From the Google Docs home screen, click on the Upload button and then choose Files… from the drop down menu. 2. In the window that opens, browse to the Word or .pdf file on your computer. When you’ve located the file, click on it once to highlight it, then click Open.. 
Google Drive. To actually edit an item in the Google Docs/Drive interface, the item must be in a Google document format. That is, though you can upload and share Microsoft Word files in Google Drive, you cannot edit them in the browser (you would need to download the item, edit it in MS Word, and then re-upload it). However, if you convert the Word file to Google Doc format, you and collaborators can edit it in the browser. To change how files are uploaded. 1  click on the settings gear in the top-right corner. 2  click on Settings. 3  to convert uploaded files to Docs format, check the box for Convert uploaded files to Google Docs editor format and click Done.