Lalatendu Pattanayak, IIIT-Bhubaneswar. 113 Views. A Monograph is a scholarly piece of writing of essay or book length on a specific, often limited subject. A magazine is a periodical with a popular focus, i.e. aimed at the general public, and containing news, personal narratives, and opinion. I have assumed you are asking this question from an academic angle. So hope this helps. A monograph is a specialist book on a single subject written by one author. For example: Jai Arjun Singh's monograph on the film Jane Bhi Do Yaaro, Jane Bhi Do Yaaro: Seriously Funny Since 1983.
How to navigate a scholarly monograph. 1  To find out if a particular monograph might meet your research needs: 2  Skim the introduction and/or preface. 3  Read through the table of contents. 4  If you need to use a scholarly monograph to find specific facts for your research or for an exam, but don’t want to read the whole thing: 5  Use the index to look up ... 1 If you need to use a scholarly monograph to find specific facts for your research or for an exam, but don’t want to read the whole thing: 2  Use the index to look up terms related to the information you need.
Sophia_Apkalikov/iStock/Getty Images. The dictionary defines a monograph as a “learned treatise on a small area of learning,” which may not be particularly helpful in understanding what a monograph encompasses. Simplified, a monograph is a detailed article about a single, narrow topic
The term monographia is derived from the Greek 'mono' (single) and grapho (to write), meaning writing on a single subject. Unlike a textbook, which surveys the state of knowledge in a field, the main purpose of a monograph is to present primary research and original scholarship. 
n. A scholarly piece of writing of essay or book length on a specific, often limited subject. tr.v. mon·o·graphed, mon·o·graph·ing, mon·o·graphs. To write a monograph on. mo·nog′ra·pher (mə-nŏg′rə-fər) n. mon′o·graph′ic adj. mon′o·graph′i·cal·ly adv.
monograph. a book, treatise, or other written work of a scholarly nature dealing with one specific subject. Also, Rare. monography. — monographer, n. — monographic, monographical, adj. A scholarly piece of writing of essay or book length on a specific, often limited subject. tr.v. mon·o·graphed, mon·o·graph·ing, mon·o·graphs. To write a monograph on. mo·nog′ra·pher (mə-nŏg′rə-fər) n. mon′o·graph′ic adj. mon′o·graph′i·cal·ly adv.