Categorization of a megadrile earthworm into one of its taxonomic families under suborders Lumbricina and Moniligastrida is based on such features as the makeup of the clitellum, the location and disposition of the sex features (pores, prostatic glands, etc.), number of gizzards, and body shape. 1 Chemical: In addition to dead organic matter, the earthworm also ingests any other soil particles that are small enough—including sand grains up to 1/20 of an inch (1.25 mm)—into its gizzard, wherein those minute fragments of grit grind everything into a fine paste which is then digested in the intestine.
Genus and Species. The earthworm genus is generally accepted to be Lumbricus. There are approximately 4,400 different species of earthworm. You should be able to find out more about a particular earthworm's taxonomy by narrowing it down based on region and habitat. Annelids are segmented worms. Earthworms belong to this phylum because their bodies are sectioned, creating the ridged or ringed appearance that gives the ringed worms of this phylum their name.
The classification of the common earthworm is: Kingdom-Animalia Phylum-Ann … elida Class-Clitellata Subclass-Oligochaeta Order-Haplotaxida Family-Lumbricidae Genus-Lumbricus Species-L. terrestris. 16 people found this useful. James Dawe. 216,095 Contributions. ................ an earthworm is a creature which has a simple structure, and lives a simple life, it lives in the ground -- soil, eats soil, digests it
The seven categories of biological taxonomy are Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus and Species. All living organisms belong to specific groups within these categories, most of which have already been established, and earthworms are no exception. Annelids are segmented worms. Earthworms belong to this phylum because their bodies are sectioned, creating the ridged or ringed appearance that gives the ringed worms of this phylum their name.
(assorted species, including: Lumbricus terrestris and Lumbricus rubellus). The two most common species of earthworms in Northern Virginia are the Common Earthworm, or nightcrawler (Lumbricus terrestris) and the Red Earthworm (Lumbricus rubellus). These earthworms were introduced from Europe many years ago. The rest of it is in its burrow. Earthworms are hermaphroditic, meaning they can all lay eggs after they mate. Earthworms lay coccoons which have an egg inside. Once an earthworm has hatched, it can live up to about three years.
An earthworm is a tube-shaped, segmented worm found in the phylum Annelida. They are commonly found living in soil, feeding on live and dead organic matter. Its digestive system runs through the length of its body. It conducts respiration through its skin. 1 Chemical: In addition to dead organic matter, the earthworm also ingests any other soil particles that are small enough—including sand grains up to 1/20 of an inch (1.25 mm)—into its gizzard, wherein those minute fragments of grit grind everything into a fine paste which is then digested in the intestine.
Phylum: Annelida. Annelids are segmented worms. Earthworms belong to this phylum because their bodies are sectioned, creating the ridged or ringed appearance that gives the ringed worms of this phylum their name.
Genus is after family but before species. An example of a genus would be canis (canine, dog). Here is a website with information and a table on classification, including genus: http://www.abelard.org/briefings/taxonomy.php. Hope this will help you. 4 people found this useful. ................ an earthworm is a creature which has a simple structure, and lives a simple life, it lives in the ground -- soil, eats soil, digests it
Share to: ................ an earthworm is a creature which has a simple structure, and lives a simple life, it lives in the ground -- soil, eats soil, digests it ...............
Theoretical cladistic studies have placed them, instead, in the suborder Lumbricina of the order Haplotaxida, but this may again soon change. Folk names for the earthworm include dew-worm, rainworm, night crawler, and angleworm (due to its use as fishing bait). 1 Chemical: In addition to dead organic matter, the earthworm also ingests any other soil particles that are small enough—including sand grains up to 1/20 of an inch (1.25 mm)—into its gizzard, wherein those minute fragments of grit grind everything into a fine paste which is then digested in the intestine.