1991 Aug;180(2):306. Radiology. 1992 Apr;183(1):284. Ultrasound (US) images of the pelvis were evaluated in 112 asymptomatic postmenopausal women to investigate the normal range of endometrial thickness (double-layer measurement) and the effect of hormone replacement on these measurements. Twenty-one patients (19%) had endometrial thickness greater than 0.8 cm
Normal range of endometrial thickness. The designation of normal limits of endometrial thickness rests on determining at which thickness the risk of endometrial carcinoma is significantly increased.
1 8. 2  on hormonal replacement therapy: upper limit is 5 mm. 3  no history of vaginal bleeding: 4  the acceptable range of endometrial thickness is less well established in this group, cut-off values of 8-11 mm have been suggested. The designation of normal limits of endometrial thickness rests on determining at which thickness the risk of endometrial carcinoma is significantly increased.
The reported normal range for this bilayer endometrial thickness is up to 5 mm in asymptomatic postmenopausal women not receiving hormones and up to 8 mm in asymptomatic postmenopausal women on HRT. Some advocate calling all measurements greater than 5 mm abnormal with or without HRT. In 24 patients with primary endometrial malignancy reported by Walsh and Goplerud, CT showed normal uterine attenuation findings in 50% of patients and 1- to 5-cm low-attenuation tumor areas in the uterus in the other 50% of patients.
1 on hormonal replacement therapy: upper limit is 5 mm. 2  no history of vaginal bleeding: 3  the acceptable range of endometrial thickness is less well established in this group, cut-off values of 8-11 mm have been suggested. The designation of normal limits of endometrial thickness rests on determining at which thickness the risk of endometrial carcinoma is significantly increased.
At birth, the uterus is similar in size to the cervix (2.3–4.6 cm), and the endometrium generally appears as a thin, echogenic line (Fig 1) (1). Approximately one-fourth of neonates will have fluid collections within the endometrial cavity (1). In general, a double-layer thickness of less than 5 mm without focal thickening excludes significant disease and is consistent with atrophy (25 – 27). Homogeneous, smooth endometria measuring 5 mm or less are considered within the normal range with or without hormonal replacement therapy (28).
During menstruation, the endometrium appears as a thin, echogenic line 1–4 mm in thickness (Fig 3) (4, 5). The endometrium is usually best seen on endovaginal scans. Endometrial thickness is measured from echogenic border to echogenic border across the endometrial cavity on a sagittal midline image. In general, a double-layer thickness of less than 5 mm without focal thickening excludes significant disease and is consistent with atrophy (25 – 27). Homogeneous, smooth endometria measuring 5 mm or less are considered within the normal range with or without hormonal replacement therapy (28).
The appearance, as well as the thickness of the endometrium, will depend on whether the patient is of reproductive age or post-menopausal and, if of reproductive age, at what point in the menstrual cycle they are examined. The designation of normal limits of endometrial thickness rests on determining at which thickness the risk of endometrial carcinoma is significantly increased.
Depending on the hormone levels the growth of the endometrium occurs.In the first phase (menstrual phase) the thickness is 1-4mm (first 5 days of the cycle). second phase(proliferative phase) - 4 -14mm (next 10 days of the cycle). Third phase (secretary phase) 14 -26mm (last 14 days of the cycle).There can be wide variation in the thickness depending on many factors like age, parity,medications etc.