There are a multitude of reasons why the leaves on a laurel turns yellow. The good news is, often these problems can be reversed with the right attention – and in some cases professional help. The key to successfully treating any problem is to act quickly.
Here are the most common reasons for yellowing leaves: 1  Normal aging. 2  As many plants age, the lower leaves will turn yellow and drop off as a normal part of growth. 3  This is especially true of foliage plants like dieffenbachia and dracaena. 4  In this case, don't worry.
Moisture Stress. The most common reason that plants’ leaves turn yellow is because of moisture stress, which can be from either over watering or under watering. If you have a plant that has yellow leaves, check the soil in the pot to see if the soil is dry.
Nutrient deficiency – Lastly, if your bay laurel has yellow leaves, the root of the problem may be either an iron or a nitrogen deficiency. A deficiency in iron is also called iron chlorosis and is a major issue in the garden that is caused by several problems, most often overly alkaline soil or damaged roots.
Leaves Turn Yellow means Soil Too Alkaline. When acid loving plants are in soil that is too alkaline they develop a condition called chlorosis. The yellowing of their foliage is a signal that they need more acid in their soil.
Though fairly resistant to pests and disease, these may nonetheless strike, causing the leaves to turn yellow on the bay laurel. You may be wondering why my bay laurel is turning yellow if you see yellowing of the bay laurel leaves. Bay trees are evergreen shrubs that grow beautifully in either the garden or in containers. They make wonderful topiaries shaped as balls, pyramids, or “lollipops” and may even have braided or spirally trained stems.
Leaves turn yellow on bay laurel for a number of reasons, resulting from an environmental condition, pest infestation or disease. Advertisement. Root rot – A yellow bay laurel plant may be indicative of waterlogged roots or wet weather creating root rot, a fungal disease that does exactly what is says. This usually applies to container grown plants and symptoms also include leaf wilt and drooping as well as yellow leaves.