Uses For hydrocortisone valerate. Hydrocortisone valerate topical is used to help relieve redness, itching, swelling, or other discomfort caused by skin conditions. This medicine is a corticosteroid (cortisone-like medicine or steroid). This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. Precautions While Using hydrocortisone valerate. It is very important that your doctor check your or your child's progress at regular visits for any problems or unwanted effects that may be caused by this medicine.
Uses. This medication is used to treat a variety of skin conditions (e.g., eczema, dermatitis, allergies, rash). Hydrocortisone valerate reduces the swelling, itching, and redness that can occur in these types of conditions. This medication is a medium-strength corticosteroid. How to use hydrocortisone valerate topical. Use this medication on the skin only. However, do not use it on the face, groin, or underarms unless directed to do so by your doctor. Wash and dry your hands before using.
Featured: hydrocortisone valerate, Westcort Main Article. Hydrocortisone valerate (Westcort) is a corticosteroid that is used topically (on the skin) for the relief of inflammation and itching caused by a variety of skin conditions (for example, insect bites, eczema, and allergic reactions). 
Descriptions. Hydrocortisone valerate topical is used to help relieve redness, itching, swelling, or other discomfort caused by skin conditions. This medicine is a corticosteroid (cortisone-like medicine or steroid). This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription
BRAND NAME: Westcort. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Hydrocortisone valerate is a synthetic (man-made) corticosteroid that is used on the skin (topically). The naturally-occurring corticosteroid is cortisol or hydrocortisone produced by the adrenal gland. Corticosteroids have potent anti-inflammatory actions and also suppress the immune response.
Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP, 0.2% is a medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses in adult patients. DESCRIPTION. Hydrocortisone valerate cream USP, 0.2% contains hydrocortisone valerate, 11,21-dihydroxy-17-[(1-oxopentyl)oxy]-(11β)-pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione, a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use.
Westcort (hydrocortisone valerate) Cream, 0.2% is a corticosteroid used to treat inflammation of the skin caused by a number of conditions such as allergic reactions, eczema, or psoriasis. 
PRESCRIBED FOR: Hydrocortisone valerate is used for the relief of itching and inflammation caused by a wide variety of skin conditions (for example, insect bites, allergic reactions and eczema). SIDE EFFECTS: The most common side effects of hydrocortisone valerate are: DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Hydrocortisone valerate is a synthetic (man-made) corticosteroid that is used on the skin (topically). The naturally-occurring corticosteroid is cortisol or hydrocortisone produced by the adrenal gland. Corticosteroids have potent anti-inflammatory actions and also suppress the immune response.