Vitamin A supplements are toxic in high doses. Supplements of beta-carotene (the form of vitamin A in fruits and vegetables) have been shown to increase cancer risk in smokers. Vitamin B-group (B-1, B-2, B-6, B-12, Folate). Keeps the immune and nervous system healthy. white beans, potatoes, meat, fish, chicken, watermelon, grains, nuts, avocados, broccoli, and green leafy vegetables. Vitamin C. Helps protect the body from infection and aids in recovery.
Vitamins and minerals are substancesyour body needs to grow properly,function normally and stay healthy. It’spossible — and highly recommended —that you get these substances from thefoods you eat. However, it sometimescan be difficult to get the recommendedamount of some vitamins and mineralsfrom diet alone. 
Fifteen minerals are essential for health: calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sodium, chloride, magnesium, iron, zinc, iodine, chromium, copper, fluoride, molybdenum, manganese, and selenium. Many foods also have fiber and other substances that can provide health benefits. However, some people who don’t get enough vitamins and minerals from food alone, or who have certain medical conditions or problems, might benefit from taking one or more of these nutrients found in single-nutrient supplements or in MVMs.
Vitamins and minerals are essential substances that our bodies need to develop and function normally. There are 14 known vitamins: vitamins A, C, D, E, and K, choline, and the vitamins (thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, pantothenic acid, biotin, vitamin B 6, vitamin B 12, and folate/folic acid). Many foods also have fiber and other substances that can provide health benefits. However, some people who don’t get enough vitamins and minerals from food alone, or who have certain medical conditions or problems, might benefit from taking one or more of these nutrients found in single-nutrient supplements or in MVMs.
Vitamin D. The benefits of Vitamin D for absorption of calcium and improving bone health are well known. It is an extremely important nutrient for boosting immunity as well. Deficiency of vitamin D has been shown to increase the risk of developing auto-immune diseases, cancer, cardio-vascular diseases and diabetes. Vitamin D reduces the risk of influenza, throat infections, fever and cough. Vitamin A. This fat-soluble vitamin functions as one of the most efficient immune system boosters. It prevents infections by promoting the functions of T cells, B cells and cytokines. It helps in protecting against viral infections, measles, common cold, flu, etc. and enhances the functions of white blood cells.
From our #1 Pharmacist Recommended brand of Letter Vitamins, * which includes essential immune-supporting nutrients like vitamins A, C, D and E, to minerals like zinc, we make high quality products to help support the immune system. Because nothing’s more important than a healthy you! 
Getting enough vitamins and minerals will support your immune system to help fight off colds, flu and other illnesses. The best way to get enough immune-boosting nutrients is to eat a wide variety of vegetables. For the best immune system support, your body needs to get enough of each nutrient. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, women should aim for at least 75 milligrams of vitamin C daily, and men need 90 milligrams daily.
Do your immune system a favor, and pack some more fruits and vegetables on your plate. They're loaded with nutrients, called antioxidants, that are good for you. Add more fruits and vegetables of any kind to your diet. It'll help your health. Some foods are higher in antioxidants than others, though. The three major antioxidant vitamins are beta-carotene, vitamin C, and vitamin E. You’ll find them in colorful fruits and vegetables, especially those with purple, blue, red, orange, and yellow hues.
Vitamin C: Championed by Linus Pauling as an antiviral and anticancer nutrient, vitamin C is an immune system booster par excellence. White blood cells use vitamin C to combat infections, and in the face of inflammation or microbial challenge, levels of vitamin C are depleted. B vitamins: The B vitamins often are thought to work together in concert as a “B complex.” For example, in AIDS, more rapid disease progression is seen in patients with deficiencies of the B Vitamins B6 and B12. B6 is particularly important for immune function.