Australia's population is concentrated along the coastal region of Australia from Adelaide to Cairns, with a small concentration around Perth, Western Australia. The centre of Australia is sparsely populated.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Australia Is A Sparsely Populated Area Because.... Australia Is Mostly Desert. There is a fair amount of grassland but most of the area is desert and deserts are not great places to live.
1 5. 2  Pictures of Australia. 3  This part of Australia is Sparsely populated because it has extreme climates (30C+) This picture shows how flat and sparsely populated Australia is. 4  This part of Australia is densely populated around the coast
Most of Australia is either arid or semi-arid, with no regular rainfall and no permanent surface water. The major population centres are along the east and south-east co … asts, with a few other habitable areas in the south-west and far north. 6 people found this useful.
Most of Australia is either arid or semi-arid, with no regular rainfall and no permanent surface water. The major population centres are along the east and south-east coasts, with a few other habitable areas in the south-west and far north.
1 This part of Australia is Sparsely populated because it has extreme climates (30C+) This picture shows how flat and sparsely populated Australia is. 2  This part of Australia is densely populated around the coast of Australia. 3  6.
1 Pictures of Australia. 2  This part of Australia is Sparsely populated because it has extreme climates (30C+) This picture shows how flat and sparsely populated Australia is. 3  This part of Australia is densely populated around the coast
Very cold areas like Greenland and most of Canada and Russia are sparsely populated, as are desert areas like the Sahara (Algeria, Libya, etc.), Saudi Arabia, and Mongolia. An area is sparsely populated because it has an unfavorable climate and/or lacks the resources necessary to sustain a denser population.
Namibia, Australia, and Iceland are also sparsely populated. The USA comes in at 32,155 people per 1000 km^2. Monaco is #1 or #2, with 16,923,000 people per 1000 km^2 (if it had 1000 km^2; it is actually 33,000 people packed into 1.95 km^2).