The next rows of scutes on either side of the spine are called costal scutes, and the outer scutes are known as marginal scutes. The plastron or underside of the turtle’s shell is also made up of scutes. Ad. Each scute forms in a lower layer of the skin, the dermis, under the epidermis. These scutes have a bony base and are known as osteoderms. In turtles and tortoises, the entire carapace, or upper shell, is a structure of fused scutes. The scutes running down the center of the shell along the spine are called central scutes.
Scutes are similar to scales and serve the same function. Unlike the scales of lizards and snakes, which are formed from the epidermis, scutes are formed in the lower vascular layer of the skin and the epidermal element is only the top surface. Scutes will usually not overlap as snake scales (but see the pangolin). The outer keratin layer is shed piecemeal, and not in one continuous layer of skin as seen in snakes or lizards. The dermal base may contain bone and produce dermal armour. Scutes with a bony base are properly called osteoderms.
Reptiles with prominent scutes include crocodiles, alligators, and turtles. Scutes on alligators and crocodiles are the bony, ridged plates that make up the animal’s tough skin, protecting it from predators and possibly helping it regulate its temperature. These scutes have a bony base and are known as osteoderms. In turtles and tortoises, the entire carapace, or upper shell, is a structure of fused scutes. The scutes running down the center of the shell along the spine are called central scutes.
This is a first-class Fossil Alligator Scute or Boney Osteoderm. It is black with a little chocolate in color and part of the armor plate or dermal scute from a Pleistocene Alligator. Super nice quality and detail on this scute. Fantastic for any collection. You can see both the upper and lower teeth in a crocodiles mouth. On average they weigh about 800 pounds and are about 13 feet in length. The largest ever recorded, in Florida, was 17'5 long.Alligator habitat is in fresh or brackish marshes, bays, rivers, lakes, swamps, and ponds.
You can see the upper teeth when the Alligator's jaws are closed. You can see both the upper and lower teeth in a crocodiles mouth. On average they weigh about 800 pounds and are about 13 feet in length. The largest ever recorded, in Florida, was 17'5 long.Alligator habitat is in fresh or brackish marshes, bays, rivers, lakes, swamps, and ponds.
Alligator Features. ­Alligators have a number of special features that have allowed them to stick around for 180 million years. For example, alligators are armor-plated. Bony plates inside the skin, called osteoderms or scutes, make the skin very hard to penetrate. When you look at the ridges on the back of an alligator, each little spike is made by a piece of bone in that section of skin. Click here to see a photo of typical osteoderms. Each spike on an alligator's back is called a scute. Inside the scute is a bone that helps protect the alligator from attack. Even though alligators are huge and cold-blooded, they can be quite fast, with a top speed of 11 MPH (17 KPH) over short distances.
A scute or scutum (Latin scutum, plural: scuta  shield ) is a bony external plate or scale overlaid with horn, as on the shell of a turtle, the skin of crocodilians, and the feet of birds. The term is also used to describe the anterior portion of the mesonotum in insects. Scutes will usually not overlap as snake scales (but see the pangolin). The outer keratin layer is shed piecemeal, and not in one continuous layer of skin as seen in snakes or lizards. The dermal base may contain bone and produce dermal armour. Scutes with a bony base are properly called osteoderms.
Taxonomy. The average size for an adult female American alligator is 8.2 feet (2.6 m), and the average size for a male is 11.2 feet (3.4 m). Exceptionally large males can reach a weight of nearly half a ton or 1,000 pounds. 
The skin of an alligator is extremely thick and acts as a suit of armor. The alligator has osteoderms, or scutes, on its back, which are small, embedded bony plates that strengthen this layer of protection. An alligator can be green, olive, brown, grey, or black, and its stomach is generally white. 
The Alligator has a wider nose and darker color than the crocodile does. You can see the upper teeth when the Alligator's jaws are closed. You can see both the upper and lower teeth in a crocodiles mouth. On average they weigh about 800 pounds and are about 13 feet in length. The largest ever recorded, in Florida, was 17'5 long. Alligator habitat is in fresh or brackish marshes, bays, rivers, lakes, swamps, and ponds. 