The jet stream flows at around 160kmph (100mph). We often hear that the jet stream is responsible for influencing the weather in the UK, so it is natural to wonder what causes the jet stream and why it has such an influence on the weather we experience on the ground. The strongest areas of the jet stream are known as jet streaks. These are areas where the jet stream has increased in speed by as much as 100kmph. A typical jet streak is 160km wide, 2-3 km thick and lasting several hundred km in length.
The two jet streams that directly affect our weather in the continental US are the polar jet and the subtropical jet. They are responsible for transporting the weather systems that affect us. The polar front is the boundary between the cold North Pole air and the warm equatorial air. A jet stream is an area of strong winds ranging from 120-250 mph that can be thousands of miles long, a couple of hundred miles across and a few miles deep.
While the polar and subtropical jet streams are the best known and most studied, other jet streams can form when wind speeds are above 58 mph (93.3 kph) in the upper atmosphere at about 6 miles (9.6 kilometers) to 9 miles (14.5 kilometers) above the surface. Jet streams form a border between hot and cold air. Because air temperature influences jet streams, they are more active in the winter when there are wider ranges of temperatures between the competing Arctic and tropic air masses. Temperature also influences the velocity of the jet stream. The greater the difference in air temperature, the faster the jet stream, which can reach speeds of up to 250 mph (402 kph) or greater, but average about 110 mph (177 kph)
Best Answer: The Jet Stream are very strong westerly winds at the top of the troposphere and right over the polar front. It doesn't affect only Grand Rapids but most of the temperate north and south hemisphere. They are a kind of horizontal tornado that results from the kink in the tropopause and the Coriolis effect. I need to figure out how the jet stream affects the weather in Grand Rapids, MI.
Meteorologists use the location of some of the jet streams as an aid in weather forecasting. The main commercial relevance of the jet streams is in air travel, as flight time can be dramatically affected by either flying with the flow or against the flow of a jet stream. Jet streams are fast flowing, narrow air currents found in the atmosphere of some planets, including Earth. The main jet streams are located near the altitude of the tropopause. The major jet streams on Earth are westerly winds (flowing west to east).
To try explain how the jet stream affects the weather in the UK, it is worth going back to the jet stream chart seen in Fig 1, now zoom in to the jet stream analysis over the Atlantic as seen in Fig 2. The jet stream is shown in pink at its strongest point fading to yellow at its weakest. The strongest areas of the jet stream are known as jet streaks. These are areas where the jet stream has increased in speed by as much as 100kmph. A typical jet streak is 160km wide, 2-3 km thick and lasting several hundred km in length.
Best Answer: Good question. The Jet Stream, a narrow band of fast moving wind, generally above 30,000 feet has three dimensional regions or pockets of maximum winds along the jet. Where the winds enter these max regions it is appropriately call an entrance region and where it exits, an exit region. The Jet Stream is basically a river of air high in the atmosphere. The Jet Stream blows from west to east. Winds can reach as high as 275 mph, but often vary. There is a Polar Jet Stream located at 60 degrees north and south latitude and a Subtropical Jet Stream located at 30 degrees north and south latitude