North Avondale is a centrally located community with relatively easy access to both major interstates (75 & 71), as well as close proximity to Downtown Cincinnati, Xavier University (part of the campus is in North Avondale), University of Cincinnati, major hospitals, the Cincinnati Zoo, and major shopping areas.
North Avondale is safer than 64% of the cities in the Ohio. In North Avondale you have a 1 in 18 chance of becoming a victim of any crime. The number of total year over year crimes in Cincinnati has decreased by 4%.
Crime in North Avondale has been a problem, not as great as in Avondale. However, the portion of North Avondale that is closest to Avondale AND the area along Reading Road continues to see a good deal of crime. As I said in my review, the area of North Avondale to the north of Clnton SPrings has much less overall crime.
Avondale is safer than 41% of the cities in the Ohio. In Avondale you have a 1 in 11 chance of becoming a victim of any crime. The number of total year over year crimes in Cincinnati has decreased by 4%.
Welcome. Greetings on behalf of the Avondale Community Council. (ACC) The ACC works diligently to make Avondale a better place to live, work, play and worship. We are recognized by the City of Cincinnati as the official voice of the Avondale community.
In terms of schooling, North Avondale is home to the North Avondale Montessori School, the New School, Xavier University, Burton Public School, Zion Temple Christian Academy, Shiloh Preparatory School, and Cincinnati Christian College.
Cincinnati may not have the high crime rates of other metropolitan areas, but crime does exist. There are both safe places and areas to avoid in Cincinnati. Before you visit, you need to know the information that can help keep you safe. Cincinnati, like any major metropolitan area, has its share of crime.
CINCINNATI — Police have found an 8-year-old boy who disappeared in Avondale. Cincinnati police say DeShawn Foster was located Thursday morning on Reading Road. The boy was last seen on Reading near Hutchins Avenue around 6 p.m. Wednesday.