His collaboration with Rula Jebreal, who penned the screenplay and original source novel for Schnabel's film Miral, extended beyond the movie. Schnabel was in a relationship with her from 2007 to June 2011. Since 2012, Schnabel has been dating May Andersen, a former model and assistant director at the Hole Gallery. Schnabel and Anderson have one son, Shooter, who was born in August 2013. He was admitted into the program. Schnabel worked as a short-order cook and frequented Max's Kansas City, a restaurant-nightclub, while he worked on his art. In 1975, Schnabel had his first solo museum, exhibition at the Contemporary Arts Museum in Houston.
This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname SCHNABEL. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull. SCHNABEL Genealogy. The vast majority of Argentine Jews are descended from immigrants who arrived from Europe. These ashkenazic Jews migrated from small towns or shtetels of Poland, Lithuania, Russia, Germany, Romania or Ukraine, leaving behind most of their Jewish relatives.
Schnabel is a German surname meaning  beak . Notable people with the surname include: 1  Artur Schnabel (1882–1951), Polish-Austrian classical pianist and composer, husband of Therese Schnabel. 2  Charles Schnabel (1895–1974), American agricultural chemist. 3  Enrico Schnabel (born 1974), German rower. 1 Artur Schnabel (1882–1951), Polish-Austrian classical pianist and composer, husband of Therese Schnabel. 2  Charles Schnabel (1895–1974), American agricultural chemist.
Julian Schnabel (born October 26, 1951) is an American painter and filmmaker. He was admitted into the program. Schnabel worked as a short-order cook and frequented Max's Kansas City, a restaurant-nightclub, while he worked on his art. In 1975, Schnabel had his first solo museum, exhibition at the Contemporary Arts Museum in Houston.
Bio: Vito Schnabel (born in 1986) is the son of artist/filmmaker Julian Schnabel and his first wife, Jaqueline. Vito has achieved great success as a young art dealer based in New York City’s West Village, having opened his first small gallery at just 16 years old.
You can find out where the majority of the Schnabel families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Schnabel immigration records. You can find out when most of the Schnabel families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era.
The 27-year-old Schnabel was born in 1986. Schnabel is an art dealer based in New York City and People magazine reported that the duo toured art galleries in Paris on Monday. Schnabel made a name for himself as a curator and art dealer while still a teenager, People added.
American gold miner Parker Schnabel has an estimated net worth of $500 thousand. Born in Haines, Alaska, he has been involved with mining since he was a child. He grew up working for Big Nugget, his grandfather John Schnabel’s mining company. Currently in high school, he plays on the varsity basketball team. 