External Links. The Fourier Transform is a tool that breaks a waveform (a function or signal) into an alternate representation, characterized by sine and cosines. The Fourier Transform shows that any waveform can be re-written as the sum of sinusoidal functions. Fourier Series gives us a method of decomposing periodic functions into their sinusoidal components. The Fourier Series can also be viewed as a special introductory case of the Fourier Transform, so no Fourier Transform tutorial is complete without a study of Fourier Series.
The Fourier transform of a function of time itself is a complex-valued function of frequency, whose absolute value represents the amount of that frequency present in the original function, and whose complex argument is the phase offset of the basic sinusoid in that frequency. The Fourier transform decomposes a function of time (a signal) into the frequencies that make it up, similarly to how a musical chord can be expressed as the amplitude (or loudness) of its constituent notes.
In the first row is the graph of the unit pulse function and its Fourier transform, a function of frequency. Translation (that is, delay) in the time domain goes over to complex phase shifts in the frequency domain. The Fourier transform decomposes a function of time (a signal) into the frequencies that make it up, similarly to how a musical chord can be expressed as the amplitude (or loudness) of its constituent notes.
The Fourier transform is called the frequency domain representation of the original signal. The term Fourier transform refers to both the frequency domain representation and the mathematical operation that associates the frequency domain representation to a function of time. The Fourier transform decomposes a function of time (a signal) into the frequencies that make it up, similarly to how a musical chord can be expressed as the amplitude (or loudness) of its constituent notes.
The Fourier transform is a mathematical technique that allows an MR signal to be decomposed into a sum of sine waves of different frequencies, phases, and amplitudes. This remarkable result derives from the work of Jean-Baptiste Joseph Fourier (1768-1830), a French mathematician and physicist. 
The Fourier series is used to represent a periodic function by a discrete sum of complex exponentials, while the Fourier transform is then used to represent a general, nonperiodic function by a continuous superposition or integral of complex exponentials. It can also transform fourier series into frequency domain as fourier series is nothing but a simplified form of time domain PERIODIC function and nothing else. FOURIER SERIES ------------ 1. Periodic function ----------- converts into a DISCRETE exponential or sin cos function.
A detailed description of the Fourier transform (FT) has waited until now, when you have a better appreciation of why it is needed. A Fourier transform is an operation which converts functions from time to frequency domains. An inverse Fourier transform (IFT) converts from the frequency domain to the time domain. The Fourier transform (FT) process is like the musician hearing a tone (time domain signal) and determining what note (frequency) is being played. The inverse Fourier Transform (IFT) is like the musician seeing notes (frequencies) on a sheet of music and converting them to tones (time domain signals).
A Fourier series is an expansion of a periodic function in terms of an infinite sum of sines and cosines. Fourier series make use of the orthogonality relationships of the sine and cosine functions. 
Fast Fourier Transforms. Fourier analysis of a periodic function refers to the extraction of the series of sines and cosines which when superimposed will reproduce the function. This analysis can be expressed as a Fourier series. The fast Fourier transform is a mathematical method for transforming a function of time into a function of frequency. Sometimes it is described as transforming from the time domain to the frequency domain. It is very useful for analysis of time-dependent phenomena. One important application is for the analysis of sound. 