by Katrina Cain. Tweet. The biggest ocean in the world is the Pacific Ocean. It covers almost 33% of the Earth’s surface at 169 million square kilometers. The Pacific Ocean stretches from the North Pole to the South Pole and is the giant stretch of water separating the west coast of North America from Japan. Almost the entire boundary of the Pacific Ocean is a subduction zone; a boundary between two tectonic plates. The volcanoes on the west coast of North America are a result of the Pacific Plate (under the Pacific Ocean) colliding with the North American Plate.
The water above the continental shelf is the neritic zone. Underwater forest of kelp and grassy meadows of sea grass are home to tiny fish, green turtles, sea cows, seahorses and tiny shrimp. Coral reefs have thousands of animals and plants that live in the waters of the neritic zone. Open ocean zone. The open ocean zone lies beyond the continental slope and contains 65% of the water in the oceans. This zone is divided further into three subzones. The sunlit zone is where photosynthesis takes place. Plankton and jellyfish are drifters that inhabit this zone.
Below the sunlit zone is the twilight zone where some light penetrates the ocean to a depth of 3000 feet. Viper fish, firefly squid, and the chambered nautilus live in this zone. The midnight zone extends from a depth of 3000 feet to the seafloor. The open ocean zone lies beyond the continental slope and contains 65% of the water in the oceans. This zone is divided further into three subzones. The sunlit zone is where photosynthesis takes place. Plankton and jellyfish are drifters that inhabit
There are four major oceanic zones where plants and animals live in the ocean. The four major zones are intertidal zone, neritic zone, open ocean zone and benthic zone. These zones contain the largest ecosystem on Earth. The open ocean zone lies beyond the continental slope and contains 65% of the water in the oceans. This zone is divided further into three subzones. The sunlit zone is where photosynthesis takes place. Plankton and jellyfish are drifters that inhabit this zone.
Open Ocean. The open ocean or pelagic zone is the largest area of the marine ecosystem and contains a diverse environment of life. Although the pelagic zone has the greatest volume and vertical range of any life zone, it is only home to about 10% of all marine species
Dead zone is a more common term for hypoxia, which refers to a reduced level of oxygen in the water. Hypoxic zones are areas in the ocean of such low oxygen concentration that animal life suffocates and dies, and as a result are sometimes called dead zones.. One of the largest dead zones forms in the Gulf of Mexico every spring. 
By Jennifer Kennedy. Pelagic Zone Background: The open ocean, or pelagic zone, is the area of the ocean outside of coastal areas, and where you’ll find some of the biggest marine life species. The sea floor (demersal zone) is not included in the pelagic zone. Different Zones in the Open Ocean: 
The oceanic zone begins in the area off shore where the water measures 200 metres (656 feet) deep or deeper. It is the region of open sea beyond the edge of the continental shelf and includes 65% of the ocean’s completely open water. 
The Gulf dead zone is yet another reason for Congress to kill that mandate. The largest 'dead zone' ever recorded is headed for the Gulf of Mexico this summer, as high levels of pollution runoff, elevated by Midwestern floods, seep into the ocean. 