Rabies is spread when an infected animal scratches or bites another animal or human. Saliva from an infected animal can also transmit rabies if the saliva comes into contact with the mouth, nose, or eyes. Globally, dogs are the most common animal involved. 
Rarely, the virus may spread when saliva or tissue from an infected animal enters an open wound or mucous membrane * , such as when an infected animal licks a person's broken skin. In rare instances, exposure to bats, with no known bite or scratch, causes human rabies. Rabies has not been found to be contagious from person to person. In theory, if a person infected with rabies were to bite someone else, the virus might spread, but no such cases have been recorded. Animal bites are the most common cause of rabies in people.
1 Rabies virus enters the raccoon through infected saliva. 2  Rabies virus spreads through the nerves to the spinal cord and brain. 3  The virus incubates in raccoon's body for apporximately 3-12 weeks. The time between the bite and the appearance of symptoms is called the incubation period and it may last for weeks to months. A bite by the animal during the incubation period does not carry a risk of rabies because the virus has not yet made it to the saliva.
How rabies spreads. Rabies can be spread to humans from infected animals through a bite, scratch or lick to broken skin, the mouth or the eye. You may also be at risk if an animal spits in your face. In very rare cases, rabies can be spread during an organ transplant.
Rabies is mostly transmitted to humans, and between animals, through the saliva of infected animals. Transmission is generally through a bite from any infected animal. Transmission between humans is extremely rare, although it can happen through organ transplants, or through bites. After a typical human infection by bite, the virus enters the peripheral nervous system. Any mammal may become infected with the rabies virus and develop symptoms, including humans. Most animals can be infected by the virus and can transmit the disease to humans. Infected bats, monkeys, raccoons, foxes, skunks, cattle, wolves, dogs or cats provide the greatest risk
People can get rabies if they are exposed to the saliva or nervous tissue of a rabid animal through a bite or scratch. Although rare, exposure can also occur if infected saliva or nervous tissue gets into a fresh wound (one that has bled within 24 hours) or mucous membrane (eyes, nose, mouth). 
1 The rabies virus is present in the saliva of an infected animal and is usually transmitted by a bite. 2  Rabies may also be transmitted if infectious material (such as saliva) of the infected animal enters a wound or mucous membrane such as the eyes, nose or mouth. 1 It is possible to get rabies following exposure to an infected animal. 2  However, rabies can be prevented in humans with the administration of a post-exposure rabies treatment, or prophylaxis, as soon as possible following an exposure. 3  Once symptoms develop, rabies is usually fatal.
1 Rabies virus spreads through the nerves to the spinal cord and brain. 2  The virus incubates in raccoon's body for apporximately 3-12 weeks. 3  The raccoon has no signs of illness during this time. The time between the bite and the appearance of symptoms is called the incubation period and it may last for weeks to months. A bite by the animal during the incubation period does not carry a risk of rabies because the virus has not yet made it to the saliva.
1 Raccoon is bitten by a rabid animal. 2  Rabies virus enters the raccoon through infected saliva. 3  Rabies virus spreads through the nerves to the spinal cord and brain. 4  The virus incubates in raccoon's body for apporximately 3-12 weeks. 5  The raccoon has no signs of illness during this time. The time between the bite and the appearance of symptoms is called the incubation period and it may last for weeks to months. A bite by the animal during the incubation period does not carry a risk of rabies because the virus has not yet made it to the saliva.
In people, the incubation period (the time between initial contact with the virus and onset of the disease) generally ranges from two to eight weeks. In rare cases, it can vary from 10 days to 2 years. The incubation period is shorter in children and in people exposed to a large dose of the rabies virus. The dose of virus depends on the size, severity and location of an animal bite or scratch. 