Secondary osteoarthritis is a form of osteoarthritis that is caused by another disease or condition. Conditions that can lead to secondary osteoarthritis include obesity, repeated trauma or surgery to the joint structures, abnormal joints at birth (congenital abnormalities), gout, diabetes, and other hormone disorders. 1 Osteoarthritis is a joint inflammation that results from cartilage degeneration. 2  Osteoarthritis can be caused by aging, heredity, and injury from trauma or disease. 3  The most common symptom of osteoarthritis is pain in the affected joint(s) after repetitive use. 4  There is no blood test for the diagnosis of osteoarthritis.
About OA. People with osteoarthritis usually experience joint pain and stiffness. The most commonly affected joints are those at the ends of the fingers (closest to the nail), thumbs, neck, lower back, knees, and hips. Osteoarthritis affects different people differently. 
Osteoarthritis is a form of arthritis that features the breakdown and eventual loss of the cartilage of one or more joints. Cartilage is a protein substance that serves as a cushion between the bones of the joints. Among the over 100 different types of arthritis conditions, osteoarthritis is the most common. 1 Osteoarthritis is a joint inflammation that results from cartilage degeneration. 2  Osteoarthritis can be caused by aging, heredity, and injury from trauma or disease. 3  The most common symptom of osteoarthritis is pain in the affected joint(s) after repetitive use. 4  There is no blood test for the diagnosis of osteoarthritis.
Osteoarthritis is a joint disease that mostly affects cartilage. Cartilage is the slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones in a joint. Healthy cartilage allows bones to glide over each other. It also helps absorb shock of movement. In osteoarthritis, the top layer of cartilage breaks down and wears away. Unlike some other forms of arthritis, osteoarthritis affects only joints and not internal organs. Rheumatoid arthritis -- the second most common form of arthritis -- affects other parts of the body besides the joints. Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis
A. Arthritis is a general term that means inflammation of the joints. Osteoarthritis, commonly known as wear and tear arthritis, is the most common type of arthritis. It is associated with a breakdown of cartilage in joints and can occur in almost any joint in the body. It commonly occurs in the weight-bearing joints of the hips, knees, and spine. 
Osteoarthritis is a disease of the joints. Unlike many other forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus, osteoarthritis does not affect other organs of the body. The most common symptom of osteoarthritis is pain in the affected joints after repetitive use. Joint pain is usually worse later in the day. Osteoarthritis Overview. Osteoarthritis (OA) is caused by aging joints, injury, and obesity. OA symptoms include joint pain and stiffness. Treatment depends on the affected joint, including the hand, wrist, neck, back, knee, and hip, and involves medication and exercise.
Osteoarthritis. Sometimes called degenerative joint disease or “wear and tear” arthritis, osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common chronic condition of the joints. It occurs when the cartilage or cushion between joints breaks down leading to pain, stiffness and swelling. pain. 
Outcomes for most people with osteoarthritis are good. OA is the most common form of arthritis with disease of the knee and hip affecting about 3.8% of people as of 2010. Among those over 60 years old about 10% of males and 18% of females are affected. It is the cause of about 2% of years lived with disability.