Tindora Sabzi – Ivy gourd/Gherkin Stir fry (4). Less is more. This tindora/ivy gourd recipe walks away a winner with the minimal of ingredients and a flavor to die for. I love the simplicity of this recipe and how comforting it is to the palate. Amchur or raw mango powder is what gives the tindora, a boost of flavor. Dondakaya Annam ~ Tindora (Ivy Gourd) Rice. I made a simple and comforting rice dish featuring dondakaya as the star ingredient. Perfumed with whole garam masala, spiced with green chilies, sweetened with coconut, Dondakaya rice recipe is jazzed up with a squeeze of fresh lemon and brightened with fresh coriander.
The tinda and plural called tinday (in Urdu ٹنڈه or ٹنڈے), also called Indian round gourd or apple gourd or Indian baby pumpkin, is a squash-like cucurbit grown for its immature fruit, a vegetable especially popular in South Asia. It is the only member of the genus Praecitrullus. 
Tindora by itself is a bland vegetable, Bhide told me. This is very aromatic and you get the toasty flavor of cumin.. Even cooked through, the tindora retain a little crunchiness from the skin and it makes a terrific side dish. Bhide said she uses that method for a lot of vegetables, like cauliflower or zucchini. Cruising the Charlotte Regional Farmers Market recently, I spotted a pile of vegetables labeled tindora. Even though I found them at a stand that mostly has Mexican produce, I eventually learned tindora is more common in Indian cooking.
Tweet. Tindora is a green vegetable which is popular in many parts of India and is known by many names (ivy gourd, kovakai, tondli, giloda…just to name a few). It resembles a watermelon but is only the size of your little pinky. Tindora can be cooked as a subzi all by itself or mixed with other vegetables like potato. Tindora are also used in many sambar recipes.
Indian Ivy Gourd is a widely consumed vegetable, available in India through out the year. Called Dondakaya (Telugu) or Tindora/Tondli (Hindi), these cute looking small, stubby, green colored vegetables which grow aggressively on vines are used to prepare delicious stuffed curries, stews, pickles, salads and stir fries. 2 Heat a few drops of oil in a cooking vessel. Once the oil is hot, reduce heat to medium flame, add the cumin seeds and let them splutter and turn brown. Add the red chillis and fry for a few seconds stirring continuosly. Turn off heat and cool.
Tindora plants are native to tropical Africa and Asia. Since their first cultivation, Tindora has been introduced as a food crop in the Far East, the Caribbean, Southern United States and the South Pacific, including Hawaii, where it is listed as a noxious weed as it will inevitably invade natural habitat. It has also been used medicinally in Ayurvedic practices in India as an anti-oxidant, anti-triglyceride, and anti-bacterial. Tindora has been used to treat jaundice, abscesses and high blood pressure. Tindora is often added to curries, stir fries and used as a main ingredient in chutneys. It can be eaten raw as a salad vegetable, however the addition of vinegar and sugar can reduce or remove any bitter aftertaste the fruit may impar
Coccinia grandis, the ivy gourd, also known as baby watermelon, little gourd, gentleman's toes, tindora, or (misleadingly) gherkin, is a tropical vine. It is also known as Cephalandra indica, Kovakka, and Coccinia indica. Ivy gourd at Thrissur, Kerala, India. Its native range extends from Africa to Asia, including India, the Philippines, Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam, eastern Papua New Guinea, and the Northern Territories, Australia.
(Coccinia grandis). Description: Tindora is a deciduous perennial vine with angularly heart-shaped leaves, white 5-lobed flowers and fruits that are 5 to 6 cm long and green but become red when overripe. Uses: Tindora is a popular vegetable used to make curries.