Anyone who thinks the world’s going to hell in a hand basket can take heart. Nancy G. Slack and Allison W. Bell’s Adirondack Alpine Summits: An Ecological Field Guide, recently published by the Adirondack Mountain Club, demonstrates that some things are getting better, and even excellence can be improved upon. 
Directions. View map of the IPA. The IPA is situated in the North west corner of England in the county of Cumbria. The M6 runs to the east: to get there take Junction 36 and then A590 for the southern end of the Lake District, take Junction 40 and the A66 or A592 for the northern end. Further information.
Mother’s day garden. The small Mother’s Day garden with it’s central larch tree adjoins the boggarden. In this garden a bench under the curtain of a willow tree is an ideal spot to relax, enjoy the flowers and watch the birds and butterflies, dream or even take a nap. The gardens are both old and new and exhibit the diversity of native and exotic plants, trees and shrubs that can be grown in the central New Hampshire climate. Conditions include sun and shade, sandy and wet soils. Flowering trees, shrubs, perennials and water features fill the gardens creating a paradeof new vistas.
The arctic-alpines include purple saxifrage, moss campion, alpine cinquefoil, mountain avens, alpine lady’s mantle, alpine catchfly and alpine mouse-ear. These species often flourish where the soils are rich in basic minerals which in the high fells generally equates to the gullies or flushes. The IPA is situated in the North west corner of England in the county of Cumbria. The M6 runs to the east: to get there take Junction 36 and then A590 for the southern end of the Lake District, take Junction 40 and the A66 or A592 for the northern end. Further information.
The upper reaches of a gentle south facing slope provide an ideal environment for the Alpine Garden. Varieties of thyme edge the crushed stone path. Miniature evergreens with a variety of texture and colors dwell among the moss and lichen covered boulders. Alpine flowers add to the beauty of this garden. The gardens are both old and new and exhibit the diversity of native and exotic plants, trees and shrubs that can be grown in the central New Hampshire climate. Conditions include sun and shade, sandy and wet soils. Flowering trees, shrubs, perennials and water features fill the gardens creating a paradeof new vistas.
Accumulations of Sphagnum can store water, since both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside their cells; plants may hold 16–26 times as much water as their dry weight, depending on the species. The empty cells help retain water in drier conditions. Sphagnum is a genus of approximately 120 species of mosses, commonly known as peat moss.
Illustrated on this page are some northern Ontario alien wildflowers that grow on bogs and f ens. These areas are wet year round, when the ground is not frozen. The plants grow on a base of moss or peat.. 
Mid to late summer offers a short window for the plants in this alpine community to flower. With luck, you might see the tiny, sticky fly-eating leaves of the sundew (Drosera rotundifolia) and catch the flowers of the small cranberry (Vaccinium oxycoccus), creeping snow-berry (Gaultheria hispidula), and others. The sliding fen is a peatland perched on alpine bedrock at the top of bare slabs or cliffs. Sliding fens presumably become supersaturated from major rain events and slide off the cliff before peat build-up resumes (Sperduto and Cogbill 1999).
[ - ]. This community is characterized as a shallow peat bog on 5-35 degree slopes on the brow of alpine or subalpine cliffs or slides. Pickering's reedgrass (Calamagrostis pickeringii), compact peatmoss (Sphagnum compactum), and other bog plants are found in these peatlands. The sliding fen is a peatland perched on alpine bedrock at the top of bare slabs or cliffs. Sliding fens presumably become supersaturated from major rain events and slide off the cliff before peat build-up resumes (Sperduto and Cogbill 1999).
Carnivorous plants require appropriate nutrient-poor soil. Most appreciate a 3:1 mixture of Sphagnum peat to sharp horticultural sand (coir is an acceptable, and more ecofriendly substitute for peat). Nepenthes will grow in orchid compost or in pure Sphagnum moss. For example, Triphyophyllum is a passive flypaper that secretes mucilage, but whose leaves do not grow or move in response to prey capture. Meanwhile, sundews are active flypaper traps whose leaves undergo rapid acid growth, which is an expansion of individual cells as opposed to cell division.