Ironically, the Cowardly Lion had courage long before the Wizard of Oz supposedly gave him what he already had. For there were many instances in which the Lion showed himself to be anything but Cowardly. If I remember correctly the Wizard of Oz did not give the lion anything. He simply told the lion that he already found courage by helping Dorothy on her journey. He was given … a medal of honor, for courage.
I am an arborist. Graduate study, travel, work make me an expert in benthics, European languages, wildlife mapping, world fauna and flora. In the original 1900 book edition of 'The Wizard of Oz', the Cowardly Lion receives a green-colored container from the Wizard. Inside is a potion that he must drink. Once he has drunk it, he has inside him the courage that he already has long before meeting up with the humbug Wizard of Oz. 
The Cowardly Lion is a character from the fictional Land of Oz created by American author L. Frank Baum, in his 1900 children's novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, and its several sequel books writtren by Baum as well. The Cowardly Lion can sing songs, in a deep bass voice (Glinda of Oz) (1920). In The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the Cowardly Lion is the last of the companions Dorothy Gale encounters and befriends while traveling on the yellow brick road.
Actor Burt Lahr was a known Comedian and stared in many Hollywood films before Oz. Bert Lahr as the Cowardly Lion in the 1939 film. Bert Lahr is justifiably famous for his portrayal of the iconic Lion in the 1939 MGM film The Wizard of Oz. Lahr's other role was Aunt Em and Uncle Henry's farm worker, Zeke. He is introduced in Baum's first Oz book titled The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, published in 1900. He makes his debut appearance in the sixth chapter of the novel titled The Cowardly Lion. He also is the third and final being to join the story's child protagonist and heroine of the tale named Dorothy Gale.
Courage, learns the Cowardly Lion in the classic film The Wizard of Oz (1939), is something without which we can have no real self-esteem, pride or power, and must ultimately come from within rather than without. 
In the original 1900 book edition of 'The Wizard of Oz', the Cowardly Lion receives a green-colored container from the Wizard. Inside is a potion that he must drink. If I remember correctly the Wizard of Oz did not give the lion anything. He simply told the lion that he already found courage by helping Dorothy on her journey. He was given … a medal of honor, for courage.
The Cowardly Lion is a fictional animal character created by L. Frank Baum, author and inventor of the Oz legacy. He is introduced in Baum's first Oz book titled The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, published in 1900. He makes his debut appearance in the sixth chapter of the novel titled The Cowardly Lion. He also is the third and final being to join the story's child protagonist and heroine of the tale named Dorothy Gale.
In The Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger in Little Wizard Stories of Oz, the Lion begins with cowardly bravado, intending to find a man to tear apart, and the Tiger a fat baby to devour. Instead, they find a small child (bigger than a baby) and return it to its mother. The Cowardly Lion can sing songs, in a deep bass voice (Glinda of Oz) (1920). In The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the Cowardly Lion is the last of the companions Dorothy Gale encounters and befriends while traveling on the yellow brick road.
We all know the story of the Cowardly Lion in the classic movie “The Wizard of Oz” – he overcame all kinds of threats and obstacles (with Dorothy, the Tin Man, and the Scarecrow) to get to the Wizard, who “gave” him his courage in the form of a medal. Turns out, he already had it – he just didn’t believe it. 
In the classic 1939 movie The Wizard of Oz, the Cowardly Lion was a humanoid biped and played by Bert Lahr, a popular vaudeville and Broadway star, with many of Lahr's trademark mannerisms deliberately worked into the film. The Cowardly Lion can sing songs, in a deep bass voice (Glinda of Oz) (1920). In The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the Cowardly Lion is the last of the companions Dorothy Gale encounters and befriends while traveling on the yellow brick road.