The average age of participants when they moved to a nursing home was about 83. The average length of stay before death was 13.7 months, while the median was five months. Fifty-three percent ofnursing home residents in the study died within six months. Men died after a median stay of three months, while women died after a median stay of eight months. Smith describes the average and median length of stay before death as “surprisingly brief.” The implication, he says, is that “we need to engage nursing home residents in planning conversations about end-of-life care and treatment preferences very soon after they are admitted.
The average age of participants when they moved to a nursing home was about 83. The average length of stay before death was 13.7 months, while the median was five months. Fifty-three percent of nursing home residents in the study died within six months. Men died after a median stay of three months, while women died after a median stay of eight months. Married participants died a median four months sooner than those who were unmarried.
Short-Term Care Nursing Home Patients. The average stay of patients in a nursing home for acute rehabilitation is 23 days; only 9 percent of nursing home patients fall into this category. Long-Term Care Nursing Home Patients. According to the National Nursing Home Survey, the average length of stay for patients currently in nursing homes is 892 days, or 2.44 years. The average length of stay for those patients who are able to be discharged is 272 days, or approximately nine months
When hospices began, workers often entered a home months before a death with plenty of time to help the family prepare emotionally for the death. But the average length of stay in a hospice fell from an average of 90 days in 1990 to 48 days in 1999, according to the IOM. Half of Medicare hospice users received care for 19 days or less, the General Ac-. counting Office found in a review last year. A week or less was common.
Smith describes the average and median length of stay before death as “surprisingly brief.” The implication, he says, is that “we need to engage nursing home residents in planning conversations about end-of-life care and treatment preferences very soon after they are admitted. Fifty-three percent of nursing home residents in the study died within six months. Men died after a median stay of three months, while women died after a median stay of eight months. Married participants died a median four months sooner than those who were unmarried.
79: Average age upon admittance to a nursing home. 40% : The percentage of individuals who reach age 65 who will enter a nursing home during their lifetimes. 892 days (2.44 years) : Average length of stay for current nursing-home residents, 1999. 272 days (8.94 months) : Average length of stay for discharged nursing-home residents, 1999. 65% : The percentage of people who entered a nursing home who died within one year of admission. Five months: The typical length of nursing-home stay for patients who eventually died in the nursing home. 25% : The percentage of deaths in the U.S. that occurred in nursing homes, 2010.
The probability of nursing home use increased sharply with age at death: 17 percent for age 65 to 74, 36 percent for age 75 to 84, and 60 percent for age 85 to 94. For persons who turned 65 in 1990, we project that 43 percent will enter a nursing home at some time before they die. 
1 65% died within 1 year of nursing home admission. 2  53% died within 6 months of nursing home admission. 3  men died sooner after admission than women (men had a median length of stay of around 3 months versus 8 for women). Most of these patients (70%) actually died in the nursing home without being transferred to another setting like a hospital. The length of stay data were striking: The authors also found that length of stay varied based on a number of demographic, social, and clinical factors.