Lean manufacturing. Lean manufacturing, lean enterprise, or lean production, often simply, Lean, is a production practice that considers the expenditure of resources for any goal other than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful, and thus a target for elimination. 
The core idea is to maximize customer value while minimizing waste. Simply, lean means creating more value for customers with fewer resources. A lean organization understands customer value and focuses its key processes to continuously increase it. The ultimate goal is to provide perfect value to the customer through a perfect value creation process that has zero waste. Not true. Lean applies in every business and every process. It is not a tactic or a cost reduction program, but a way of thinking and acting for an entire organization. Businesses in all industries and services, including healthcare and governments, are using lean principles as the way they think and do.
Definition. Doing more with less by employing 'lean thinking.' Lean manufacturing involves never ending efforts to eliminate or reduce ' muda ' (Japanese for waste or any activity that consumes resources without adding value) in design, manufacturing, distribution, and customer service processes. Use lean manufacturing in a sentence. Show more usage examples... A forever thorn in the side of the cotton pickers of Macon, Georgia was lean manufacturing, because when the cotton gin was invented there was no need for over half of the workers in the field, making for lean times too.
Lean manufacturing includes a set of principles that lean thinkers use to achieve improvements in productivity, quality, and lead-time by eliminating waste through kaizen. Kaizen is a Japanese word that essentially means change for the better or good change.. Lean manufacturing is the term most commonly used to describe the Toyota Production System (TPS). In the above figure, we have the TPS house. At the base, we have operational stability, which means creating consistency in methods and tasks, equipment, workplace organization, and output of work
Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. Toyota's view is that the main method of lean is not the tools, but the reduction of three types of waste: muda (non-value-adding work), muri (overburden), and mura (unevenness), to expose problems systematically and to use the tools where the ideal cannot be achieved.
Lean IT is the extension of lean manufacturing and lean services principles to the development and management of information technology (IT) products and services. Its central concern, applied in the context of IT, is the elimination of waste, where waste is work that adds no value to a product or service. 
Lean is not an acronym (“LEAN”). A list of things Lean is not: “ Lean ” is the set of management practices based on the Toyota Production System (TPS). The phrase “Lean Production” was coined by a group of MIT researchers who wrote the book The Machine That Changed the World. Lean is not about being skinny and it’s not about “cutting to the bone.” Lean is about having the right resources in place to do the right work for the customer, with the right quality, at the right time. Lean is not “mean” (although the words rhyme, unfortunately).
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. Toyota's view is that the main method of lean is not the tools, but the reduction of three types of waste: muda (non-value-adding work), muri (overburden), and mura (unevenness), to expose problems systematically and to use the tools where the ideal cannot be achieved.
Lean production is an assembly-line methodology developed originally for Toyota and the manufacturing of automobiles. It is also known as the Toyota Production System or just-in-time production. Lean production principles are also referred to as lean management or lean thinking. 