Dingoes live in Australia. They are most commonly found in remote areas of the outback, such as bushland areas and semi-arid regions, as long as there is a food source, but th … ey have certainly been known to move closer in to human habitations. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Dingoes live between 5 - 10 years in the wild, and in captivity 13 - 15. On rare cases up to 24 years.
The dingo (Canis lupus dingo) is a wild dog found mainly in Australia and Southeast Asia. Though no larger than a medium sized dog (about 30lbs), dingoes are the largest land-going predator in Australia. 
Dingo (or Warrigal) The origins of the dingo are obscure and there is much controversy. It is not truly native to Australia but is thought to have arrived between 3500 and 4000 years ago. Whatever its origins, the dingo was a highly valued companion to the Aborigines. Dingo.
Animal Species: Dingo. The Dingo is Australia's wild dog. It was probably introduced to Australia by Asian seafarers about 4,000 years ago. Its origins have been traced back to a south Asian variety of Grey Wolf (Canis lupus lupus). Generally speaking, Dingoes can live in a wide range of habitats found on the Australian mainland. Their preference is woodland and grassland areas that extend to the edge of forests. They are only limited by access to viable water sources.
Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The dingo is legendary as Australia's wild dog, though it also occurs in Southeast Asia. The Australian animals may be descendents of Asian dingoes that were introduced to the continent some 3,000 to 4,000 years ago. It is likely that more dingoes live in Australia today than when Europeans first arrived. Though dingoes are numerous, their pure genetic strain is gradually being compromised. They can and do interbreed with domestic dogs to produce hybrid animals.
Dingoes live in Australia. They are most commonly found in remote areas of the outback, such as bushland areas and semi-arid regions, as long as there is a food source, but they have certainly been known to move closer in to human habitations. Dingoes do not live in sandy deserts. They live almost everywhere, including semi-arid areas of Australia, where spin … ifex grass or scrubland is plentiful, and where there is a permanent water supply, even if they have to dig to reach it.
It depends upon what you understand by the term desert. Dingoes do not live in sandy deserts. They live almost everywhere, including semi-arid areas of Australia, where spin … ifex grass or scrubland is plentiful, and where there is a permanent water supply, even if they have to dig to reach it. Where there is any type of vegetation, there is also animal life. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Dingoes live between 5 - 10 years in the wild, and in captivity 13 - 15. On rare cases up to 24 years.
Dingoes live between 5 - 10 years in the wild, and in captivity 13 - 15. On rare cases up to 24 years. Dingoes do not live in sandy deserts. They live almost everywhere, including semi-arid areas of Australia, where spin … ifex grass or scrubland is plentiful, and where there is a permanent water supply, even if they have to dig to reach it.
1 Dingoes can be found living in Australia and Southeast Asia, mainly Thailand. 2  Australian dingoes are larger than Asian dingoes. 3  The plural of dingo is dingoes, not dingos. 4  Male dingoes are larger than females. 5  Males weigh 26 to 43 pounds (12 to 20 kg) and females weigh 21 to 35 pounds. 1 Australian dingoes are larger than Asian dingoes. 2  The plural of dingo is dingoes, not dingos. 3  Male dingoes are larger than females. 4  Males weigh 26 to 43 pounds (12 to 20 kg) and females weigh 21 to 35 pounds. 5  Most Australian dingoes are ginger-coloured or sandy coloured with white chests.
It depends upon what you understand by the term desert. Dingoes do not live in sandy deserts. They live almost everywhere, including semi-arid areas of Australia, where spin … ifex grass or scrubland is plentiful, and where there is a permanent water supply, even if they have to dig to reach it. Where there is any type of vegetation, there is also animal life