If you have been at the company for more than a year, you can get up to 4 months off (one months before, three months after). Every company is different though. No matter what, you will qualify for some maternity leave. By law, they can't fire you for having a baby. Report Abuse. I think it's 6 months employment before you qualify for the 12 weeks paid leave and a full year of employment before you get a year off.
Overview. Maternity Allowance is usually paid to you if you don’t qualify for Statutory Maternity Pay. The amount you can get depends on your eligibility. You can claim Maternity Allowance as soon as you’ve been pregnant for 26 weeks. Payments can start 11 weeks before your baby is due.
First off though, you need to be employed by a company. If that’s the case, you have the right to 26 weeks of Ordinary Maternity Leave and 26 weeks of Additional Maternity Leave, making one year in total. The combined 52 weeks is known as Statutory Maternity Leave (SML). You should tell your employer you want to take SML at least 15 weeks before the beginning of the week your baby is due. So long as you have given the correct notice, you are entitled to this no matter: 1  How long you have been with your employer. 
Second, you must have worked for the employer for at least 1250 hours in the 12 months before you take leave. That works out to an average of about 24 hours per week over the course of a year. Lastly, you must work at a location where the employer has at least 50 employees within 75 miles of your worksite. 
Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP). To qualify for SMP you must: 1  earn on average at least £112 a week. 2  give the correct notice. 3  give proof you’re pregnant. 4  have worked for your employer continuously for at least 26 weeks up to the ‘qualifying week’ - the 15th week before the expected week of childbirth.
You may then take an extra 26 weeks' additional maternity leave, giving you a year's leave in total. If you take a year off, you'll have taken your full statutory maternity leave. You have the right to maternity leave regardless of how long you've been in your job, how many hours you work, or how much you're paid. After your first two weeks of compulsory maternity leave, you can work for up to 10 days during your maternity leave. These are called keeping-in-touch days. You should agree with your employer what work you'll be doing and how much you'll be paid.
In most provinces, you can apply for maternity leave up to eight weeks before your baby is due. Some provinces allow you to start maternity leave as early as 11 weeks before your due date. Check with your province's ministry of labour if you are interested in going on mat leave early. So, in order to qualify for maternity leave benefits you really have to qualify for Employment insurance (EI). Here's what you need to qualify for EI: If you are self-employed you can choose to pay into EI so that you will one day qualify for maternity leave.
1. Maternity Allowance is usually paid to you if you don’t qualify for Statutory Maternity Pay. The amount you can get depends on your eligibility. You can claim Maternity Allowance as soon as you’ve been pregnant for 26 weeks. Payments can start 11 weeks before your baby is due.
You can start maternity leave any time from 11 weeks before the beginning of the week your baby's due. You can bring the date forward if you need to take time off work for pregnancy-related reasons within four weeks of the expected birth date. Your employer may make you start your leave from then. After your first two weeks of compulsory maternity leave, you can work for up to 10 days during your maternity leave. These are called keeping-in-touch days. You should agree with your employer what work you'll be doing and how much you'll be paid.