Strombolian eruptions are a type of volcanic eruption, named after the volcano Stromboli, which has been erupting continuously for centuries. Strombolian eruptions are driven by the bursting of gas bubbles within the magma. These gas bubbles within the magma accumulate and coalesce into large bubbles, called gas slugs. Several types of volcanic eruptions —during which lava, tephra (ash, lapilli, volcanic bombs and blocks), and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure —have been distinguished by volcanologists. These are often named after famous volcanoes where that type of behavior has been observed.
Stromboli is widely known for its spectacular eruptions which jet fountains of molten rock from its lava-filled central crater. Because these eruptions are so distinctive and well known, geologists use the word  Strombolian  to clearly describe similar eruptive activity at other volcanoes. Because it has been active for much of the last 2,000 years and its eruptions are visible for long distances at night, it is known as the Lighthouse of the Mediterranean. It is among the world's most visited
A diagram of a strombolian eruption. Strombolian eruptions are relatively mild explosive with a VEI volcanic explosive index of about 2 to 3 volcanic eruptions, and are named after the Italian volcano Stromboli, which is the type volcano for this style of eruption. For example, the Paricutin parícutin volcano erupted continuously between-1943, 1952 Mount, Erebus antarctica has Produced strombolian eruptions for at least many, decades And stromboli itself has been Producing strombolian eruptions for over two thousand. years
Strombolian eruptions are named from the small volcano-island of Stromboli (image), located between Sicily and Italy. This volcano has been erupting almost constantly for hundreds of years. A classic example of a Strombolian-type eruption was the Paricutin eruption in 1943, about 200 miles west of Mexico City. This eruption marks the first time scientists were able to observe the complete life cycle of a volcano, from birth to extinction.
Stromboli is one of the most active volcanoes on Earth and has been erupting almost continuously since 1932. Because it has been active for much of the last 2,000 years and its eruptions are visible for long distances at night, it is known as the Lighthouse of the Mediterranean. It is among the world's most visited volcanoes.
Mt. Stromboli's Eruptions. Mt. Stromboli has been active for the last 2000 years. This volcano is in Sicily, Italy. There are 5 vents. The lava consists of 7 small gas elements. This volcano is so active they had to evacuate it. There are some people who take the risk including some fire man
Also, other volcanoes that have the same kinda of eruption as the Stromboli volcano, are calleed Strombolian.. Deaths and Injuries: 1919-  Stromboli ejected 30-60 ton blocks onto houses in San Vincenzo and Ginostra. Four people were killed and 20 injured. The Stromboli Volcano, Italy. Stromboli Volcano, located in Italy above the subduction zone, is an ongoing, erupting, stratovolcano. It has been erupting continuously since 1932, and active for more than 2000 years.
Stromboli is the type location for the Strombolian style of eruptions. Strombolian eruptions are mild explosive events where slugs of gas periodically rise through a magma-filled volcanic conduit, burst at the surface, and throw bits of lava into the air. Because it has been active for much of the last 2,000 years and its eruptions are visible for long distances at night, it is known as the Lighthouse of the Mediterranean. It is among the world's most visited volcanoes.
Stromboli is one of the most active volcanoes on Earth. It has been in nearly continuous eruption for about 2,000 years (some volcanologists suggest 5,000 years). Most of the present cone was well developed 15,000 years ago. This photo shows the volcano and town of Stromboli. Stromboli is one of the Aeolian Islands of Italy. The island is about 3 miles (2 km) in diameter and 2,900 feet (900 m) above sea level. It rises 10,000 feet (3,000 m) above the floor of the Tyrrhenian Sea.