1. Of, relating to, or caused by a toxin or other poison: a toxic condition; toxic hepatitis. 2. Capable of causing injury or death, especially by chemical means; poisonous: toxic industrial waste. 3. 1. of, pertaining to, affected with, or caused by a toxin or poison: a toxic condition. 2. acting as or having the effect of a poison; poisonous: a toxic drug.
Definition of Toxic and Poisonous. Toxic ‘“ refers to the condition of a substance and the degree to which it can cause damage to you or any other organism or system. In colloquial usage, toxic can refer to biological organisms and non-biological substances, the latter in a more allegorical context.
Some poisons are also toxins, which is any poison produced by animals, vegetables or bacterium, such as the bacterial proteins which cause tetanus and botulism. A distinction between the two terms is not always observed, even among scientists. The derivative forms toxic and poisonous are synonymous. Indeed, 2,4-D is not a poison, but classified as harmful (EU). Many substances regarded as poisons are toxic only indirectly, by toxication. An example is wood alcohol or methanol, which is not poisonous itself, but is chemically converted to toxic formaldehyde and formic acid in the liver.
Poisons include highly toxic chemicals not meant for human ingestion or contact, such as cyanide, paint thinners, or household cleaning products. Many poisons, however, are substances meant for humans to eat, including foods and medicines. Food Poisoning ». Food poisoning is defined as an illness caused by the consumption of food or water contaminated with bacteria and/or their toxins, parasites, viruses, or chemicals.
Get help right away from a local poison expert. If someone is unconscious or has trouble breathing, call 911. A poison is anything that can harm someone if it is 1) used in the wrong way, 2) used by the wrong person, or 3) used in the wrong amount. Some poisons may be harmful if they come into direct contact with your eyes or skin. Others may be toxic if you breathe them or swallow them. 
The term poison is often used colloquially to describe any harmful substance, particularly corrosive substances, carcinogens, mutagens, teratogens and harmful pollutants, and to exaggerate the dangers of chemicals. Indeed, 2,4-D is not a poison, but classified as harmful (EU). Many substances regarded as poisons are toxic only indirectly, by toxication. An example is wood alcohol or methanol, which is not poisonous itself, but is chemically converted to toxic formaldehyde and formic acid in the liver.
Mercury poisoning (also known as hydrargyria or mercurialism) is a type of metal poisoning and a medical condition caused by exposure to mercury or its compounds. Mercury (chemical symbol Hg) is a heavy metal occurring in several forms. 
In biology, poisons are substances which cause disturbances to organisms, usually by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale, when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by an organism. The fields of medicine (particularly veterinary) and zoology often distinguish a poison from a toxin, and from a venom. Toxins are poisons produced by organisms in nature, and venoms are toxins which are injected by a bite or sting (this is exclusive to animals). Indeed, 2,4-D is not a poison, but classified as harmful (EU). Many substances regarded as poisons are toxic only indirectly, by toxication. An example is wood alcohol or methanol, which is not poisonous itself, but is chemically converted to toxic formaldehyde and formic acid in the liver.
Poisoning by way of household substances, toxic berries, dangerous fumes, and other sources leads to thousands of hospitalizations every year. Knowing how to handle the situation quickly and effectively can mean the difference between survival or death. Leave the toxic area immediately. Poisoning by inhalation can occur as a result of toxic fumes, smoke, or gas. Move the person, and anyone else in the vicinity, to an area safe from these substances. It's best to go outdoors, well away from the building where the inhalation occurred.