Tax your vehicle. Tax your car, motorcycle or other vehicle using your reminder letter (V11). If you don’t have a reminder letter, you can use: 1  a V5C registration certificate (log book) that’s in your name-get a replacement if you don’t have one. 2  your new keeper supplement (V5C/2) if you’ve just bought the vehicle.
Your Motorcheck report will show if the vehicle’s road tax is current in Ireland as well as the expiry date of its existing disc and the expiry dates of previous discs (where available). If the road tax has expired Motorcheck will tell you how long it has been out of date. Your report will also highlight any gaps in the vehicle’s previous tax history where it may have been off the road. If a car hasn’t been taxed for a long period it’s important you find out why.
If it is out of date then it is not taxed-if it is not there at all then it is not legal to drive on the highway even though it may actually be taxed. If you want to check then go here and put the vehicle details in http://www.taxdisc.direct.gov.uk/EvlPort... Source(s): photog · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
This free online vehicle enquiry tool will check your vehicle against the DVLA database, and ensure it is taxed. It also provides the current cost of vehicle excise, basic vehicle data, and tax expiry date. Check a vehicle.
If you do a SORN for insurance DVLA will automatically cancel the tax disc and it's up to the owner to get a refund-so just coz it's got a disc doesn't mean it's actually taxed. A pain in the arse when you're buying a car.
There will be a tax disc in the windscreen and you can check at http://www.taxdisc.direct.gov.uk/EvlPort... You need to know the make and reg number to use the enquiry system on there. If it is taxed but you do not display a disc you can be fined up to £200. Timbo is here · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
Report Abuse. There will be a tax disc in the windscreen and you can check at http://www.taxdisc.direct.gov.uk/EvlPort... You need to know the make and reg number to use the enquiry system on there. If it is taxed but you do not display a disc you can be fined up to £200. Timbo is here · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.