Symptoms of a Bartonella infection include fever, fatigue, malaise, swollen lymph nodes, joint aches and swelling, neurological abnormalities, and skin rash or markings.
1 Oroya fever: During this phase, patients may present with fever, headache, muscle aches, abdominal pain, and severe anemia. 2  Verruga peruana: During this later phase, lesions appear under the skin as nodular growths, then emerge from the skin as red-to-purple vascular lesions that are prone to ulceration and bleeding.
Bartonella Symptoms. Fatigue, weakness, headaches, dizziness, irritability, aggression, muscle pain, joint pain, nerve pain, back pain, fever, chills, heart palpations and a host of skin rashes (papules, hives, stretch marks, and skin rashes that suddenly appear for no apparent reason and then go away).
Bartonella infections: Infection with bacteria from the Bartonella genus of bacteria. Specific bacteria from within this group are Bartonella bacilliforms (Oroya fever), Bartonella Heneslae (Cat-scratch disease). Other conditions caused by this bacteria are endocarditis, bacteremia and angiomatosis.
The list of signs and symptoms mentioned in various sources for Bartonella infections includes the 37 symptoms listed below: 1  Fever. 2  Headache. 3  Severe bone pain. 4  Severe joint pain. 5  Enlarged liver. 6  Enlarged spleen. 7  Enlarge lymph nodes.
Although more investigations are needed, current research suggests that symptoms of Bartonella infection may include recurring fever, headaches, insomnia, joint and muscle pain, arthropathy, myalgia, neurologic dysfunction, and vasculitis.
Bartonellosis, (Bartonella spp infection) is an infectious disease caused by bacteria in the genus Bartonella. Popularly known in the United States as Cat Scratch Disease (CSD) or Trench Fever, Bartonella spp bacteria are very difficult to detect in patient samples.
This disease has 2 distinct phases: 1  Oroya fever: During this phase, patients may present with fever, headache, muscle aches, abdominal pain, and severe anemia.
Research implicates Bartonella infection in persistent symptoms affecting the joints, neurological system, and vascular system. Symptoms can range from flu-like symptoms to more serious issues, like vision loss, numbness in hands and feet, or even seizures.