Temperature of Venus. While the weather of Venus is a swirling, chaotic scenario; the temperature is intense and drastically hot. In fact, the surface of Venus is so hot, it will melt lead rapidly. The average temperature of Venus is a whopping 464 degrees Celsius, which is equivalent to 867 degrees Fahrenheit. This temperature barely varies from area to area, or night to day. While the actual ground of the planet is severely hot, the temperature decreases rapidly moving upward
The atmospheric pressure at the planet's surface is 92 times that of Earth's. With a mean surface temperature of 735 K (462 °C; 863 °F), Venus is by far the hottest planet in the Solar System, even though Mercury is closer to the Sun. Venus is shrouded by an opaque layer of highly reflective clouds of sulfuric acid, preventing its surface from being seen from space in visible light. Venus is the second planet from the Sun, orbiting it every 224.7 Earth days. It has no natural satellite. It is named after the Roman goddess of love and beauty. After the Moon, it is the brightest natural object in the night sky, reaching an apparent magnitude of −4.6, bright enough to cast shadows.
The average temperature on Venus is 864 degrees Fahrenheit (462 degrees Celsius). Temperature changes slightly traveling through the atmosphere, growing cooler farther away from the surface. Lead would melt on the surface of the planet, where the temperature is around 872 F (467 C). A warm blanket. Venus is the planet most similar to the Earth in terms of size and mass, but its atmosphere causes huge differences in the temperatures of the two planets. The distance to Venus from the sun plays only a small role in the cause of its elevated heat wave.
In addition, the surface temperature on Venus does not vary like it does here on Earth. On our planet, temperatures vary wildly due to the time of year and even more so based on the location on our planet. The hottest temperature ever recorded on Earth was 70.7°C in the Lut Desert of Iran in 2005. However, for all the characteristics these two planets have in common, average temperature is not one of them. Whereas the Earth has an average surface temperature of 14 degrees Celsius, the average temperature of Venus is 460 degrees Celsius. That is roughly 410 degrees hotter than the hottest deserts on our planet
Venus is the second closest planet to our Sun, and is the hottest planet in the solar system. The blistering temperature on Venus is due in part to the oppressive atmosphere that is 100 times heavier than that of Earth. The greenhouse gasses that smother the planet create a uniform and constant temperature on all sides of Venus. Uniform Temperature. Unlike a planet such as Earth, which has a variable temperature range, Venus' surface temperature remains constantly around 480 degrees Celsius, or 896 degrees Fahrenheit. This uniform temperature is due to two primary causes -- the tilt of the planet on its axis and the atmospheric conditions.
Although it is the second planet from the sun, Venus is the hottest planet in the solar system. The reason Venus is hotter than even Mercury is not because of its position in the solar system but because of its thick, dense cloud layer. A warm blanket. Venus is the planet most similar to the Earth in terms of size and mass, but its atmosphere causes huge differences in the temperatures of the two planets. The distance to Venus from the sun plays only a small role in the cause of its elevated heat wave.
In fact, at a searing 750 K (477 °C), the surface of Venus is the hottest in the solar system. Venus is closer to the Sun by 108 million km, (about 30% closer than the Earth), but it is mainly due to the planet’s thick atmosphere. However, for all the characteristics these two planets have in common, average temperature is not one of them. Whereas the Earth has an average surface temperature of 14 degrees Celsius, the average temperature of Venus is 460 degrees Celsius. That is roughly 410 degrees hotter than the hottest deserts on our planet
The average temperature on Venus is about 464 °C (867°F). It is this hot because it is the second planet from the sun, and has what scientists call a 'runaway greenhouse' effect. A thick layer of clouds (carbon dioxide and some sulphuric acid) covers the surface and traps infrared radiation, raising the surface temperature of the planet. Venus is very hot, often around 460° C and there are winds (just a few km/h at the surface but around 300 km/h higher up) in the atmosphere which is very thick (92 times the … pressure of Earth at sea level) The atmosphere consists of carbon dioxide [CO2] with sulfuric acid [H2SO4] clouds.