Other Bank Checks 2-3 (longer for new account holders). Depending on your relationship with the bank, how long a check takes to clear depends on if you do a lot of deposits, less withdrawals or always cashing checks with a dollar in the account, overdraft monster. Checks will never be held if you show good relationship. Checks will be held if you owe them money all the time. How long does a chase check take to clear at a chase bank? I know with my situations, I deposited an out-of-state check into my account for $1,500- they gave me $200 for the rest of that same day, then the remaining $1,500 becomes ava … ilable the next day.
How long does a chase check take to clear at a chase bank? I know with my situations, I deposited an out-of-state check into my account for $1,500- they gave me $200 for the rest of that same day, then the remaining $1,500 becomes ava … ilable the next day. How long does it take Wells Fargo to clear a check? The time it takes for Wells Fargo to clear a check depends on the history of the person who wrote the check, how much the check was written for and the time or the year the ch … eck was written.
There has been a LOT of fraud lately with cashier's checks and money orders. If it's drawn on a major national bank with offices near where the recipient lives it should clear in a day or so. However many checks from obscure local banks can take weeks to clear in some cases. The fraudsters have become so good with their fake checks that it's possible to take as long as 20 days or more for a bogus cashier's check to bounce. 
Report Abuse. Oh no NOT AGAIN. Don't tell me the certified check is from someone in Nigeria... If it is, the check is a forgery and will bounce in a week or so. DO NOT sent the crook who sent you this check ANY money via Western Union... don't do it... don't do it. If you contact the bank on which the check was drawn you will find it is either a stolen check or counterfeit. This is a total scam and when the check bounces you will be out any money you sent back to the crook in Nigeria and not only that you could be arrested as an accessory to fraud
If your deposit is cash, a money order, a certified check, a check from an account at the same or another branch of your bank or credit union, or a check from the government, you can withdraw or use the full amount on the next business day if you make the deposit in person to a bank employee. 
Check Clearing Times. The exact time it takes for a check to clear depends on bank policies and the nature of the deposit. Most national banks promise that deposited checks will clear and post to your account either the same day or the next business day. If the account is less than 30 days old, the check may take a few extra days to clear.
Depending on the institution, it may take anywhere from one business day to seven business days to clear a check. The usual time is 2-3 business days, but it may take more or … less time to clear due to your bank's procedures and delays/ bank holidays. 20 people found this useful. How long does it take Wells Fargo to clear a check? The time it takes for Wells Fargo to clear a check depends on the history of the person who wrote the check, how much the check was written for and the time or the year the ch … eck was written.
Depending on the institution, it may take anywhere from one business day to seven business days to clear a check. The usual time is 2-3 business days, but it may take more or … less time to clear due to your bank's procedures and delays/ bank holidays. How long does a chase check take to clear at a chase bank? I know with my situations, I deposited an out-of-state check into my account for $1,500- they gave me $200 for the rest of that same day, then the remaining $1,500 becomes ava … ilable the next day.
Writing a check to someone else is a different matter and is dependent on how long it takes for the recipient to deposit it, as well as how long the other bank takes to process the check. BNY Mellon. 1  Standard deposit – The first $5,000 from a deposit of checks will be available on the first business day of your deposit. This list is comprised of banks ranked 11 to 20 based on the total value of account deposits, which means these are among the top 20 banks in America. Just to clarify, this information concerns how long it would take for a check to clear when you deposit it into your own bank account.