Moon's Elongation = H.A. of the Sun-H.A. of the Moon. This formula can be used to find the Moon's elongation (angular distance from the Sun), even at night when we cannot see the Sun. This is possible because we know where the Sun is if we know the time of day. At midnight, for example, the Sun is on the other side of the Earth (H.A is about 180°), out of view. Note that the Moon's elongation, the angle between the Sun and the Moon, is the difference between these two hour angles. If you get a negative number, just add 360 degrees.
The Moon's elongation is its angular distance east of the Sun at any time. At new moon, it is zero and the Moon is said to be in conjunction. At full moon, the elongation is 180° and it is said to be in opposition. In both cases, the Moon is in syzygy, that is, the Sun, Moon and Earth are nearly aligned. When elongation is either 90° or 270°, the Moon is said to be in quadrature. With a mean orbital velocity of 1.023 km/s, the Moon moves relative to the stars each hour by an amount roughly equal to its angular diameter, or by about 0.5°. The Moon differs from most satellites of other planets in that its orbit is close to the plane of the ecliptic, and not to Earth's equatorial plane.
(glossary entry). The elongation of the Moon is the apparent angular distance of the center of the Moon from the center of the Sun as seen by a particular observer. - JimMosher. This page has been edited 5 times. The last modification was made by-JimMosher on Nov 25, 2008 12:20 pm-mgx2. 1 The elongation angle is listed as the Sun-Observer-Target or SOT angle in the lunar output from JPL Horizons. 2  It is an approximate determinant of the theoretical percent illumination of the Moon, which is calculated as if the Moon were a perfect sphere (see: phase). - 3  JimMosher.
Elongation is the angle between the sun and a planet as seen by an observer on earth. Imagine that you could see Venus and the sun at the same time. To measure the elongation of Venus, you could hold a piece of paper so that its flat edge is in line with the two objects. If a planet is at the opposite point in the sky from the sun, it has an elongation of 180°. However, some planets will never have such an elongation. To see why, we need to consider the difference between inferior planets and superior planets.
First quarter is 90 degrees eastern elongation, or when the angle between your line of sight to the sun and the moon is 90 degrees to the east. For last quarter, the moon is 90 degrees west of the sun in the sky, or at 90 degrees western elongation. Source(s): Rich · 5 years ago. I think it means the distance of the Moon from the Sun in degrees...that is what it means with respect to Mercury and Venus. So it would be 0° at New Moon, 90° East at First Quarter, 180° at Full Moon, and 90° West at Third Quarter.
Fig 1: Elongation angle is the angle between planet and sun as seen from earth. To make a good model of the solar system required good observations. Good observations require a good way to talk about them. Planets were referred to their position in two ways. The angle between the sun and the planet is called elongation. Venus and Mercury were always seen near the sun, either right before sunrise or right after sunset. Indeed, it took awhile for the ancient Greeks to realize these morning and evening stars were the same planet.
Best Answer: Elongation is the measure of the moon's position in the sky with respect to its angle from the sun, from the observer's perspective. A three-and-a-half day old moon would be at 45 degrees eastern elongation. I think it means the distance of the Moon from the Sun in degrees...that is what it means with respect to Mercury and Venus. So it would be 0° at New Moon, 90° East at First Quarter, 180° at Full Moon, and 90° West at Third Quarter.
See Also: Earth Time Clock animated visualization of the Earth's rotation. Close X. The Moon Tonight (Where Is The Moon) ver. 0.1 visualizes today's/tonight's or simulated Moon's phase (as viewed from the northern hemisphere) and position of the Moon in relation to the Earth and the Sun (from above the north pole). Additionally, it displays some lunar astronomical parameters