Appendix A: Job plan guidance and template Introduction 1. The job planning process is described in schedule 4 of the Salaried Primary Dental Care Services terms and conditions of service. This section suggests a number of steps that can be taken in order to achieve an agreed job plan. 
The average Pacific Dental Services salary ranges from approximately $22,000 per year for Dental Assistant to $340,000 per year for General Dentist. Average Pacific Dental Services hourly pay ranges from approximately $12.00 per hour for Receptionist to $45.00 per hour for Dental Hygienist. Salary information comes from 74 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed
This informs employers in the NHS (England) of the freeze in the national pay rates of hospital medical and dental staff and doctors and dentists in public health, the community health service, salaried primary dental care and salaried general practitioners effective from 1 April 2012. This pay circular notifies the changes in national pay and conditions of service of hospital medical and dental staff, doctors and dentists in public health, the community health service, salaried primary dental care and salaried GPs, with effect from 1 April 2009. Pay Circular (M&D) 5/2008 - Mileage rates.
Add to BDA bookmarks. SDC has developed a vision for the future of salaried primary dental care services (SPDCS). Contained within this vision is an explanation of what the SPDCS does, an assessment of current issues facing the SPDCS along with recommendations for future commissioning. 
Download your copy of the Dental Service leaflet here. The Oxfordshire Salaried Primary Care Dental Service provides care for patients from ten dental clinics across Oxfordshire located at Abingdon, Banbury, Bicester, Didcot, East Oxford, Luther Street, Kidlington, Wallingford, Wantage and Witney. You can find the address details below. If the problem is more urgent, they can access out-of-hours dental services in their area by calling 111. OSPCDS operates an out-of-hours service at the times below, all users are required to call 111 to access this service.
The Salaried Dental Service provides both an Urgent Care service through its Dental Access Centres and a Special Care Dental Service. Dental Access Centres. The Dental Access Centres are available to anyone who resides in the Devon area, who does not have a regular general dental practitioner (NHS or Private).
Changes in national pay and conditions of service of hospital medical and dental staff, doctors and dentists in public health, the community health service, salaried primary dental care and salaried GPs, with effect from 1 April 2008. This pay circular notifies the changes in national pay and conditions of service of hospital medical and dental staff, doctors and dentists in public health, the community health service, salaried primary dental care and salaried GPs, with effect from 1 April 2009. Pay Circular (M&D) 5/2008 - Mileage rates.
The Rotherham Foundation Trust Salaried Dental Service consists of the Community Dental Services in Barnsley, Doncaster and Rotherham, Intravenous (IV) Sedation Service in Rotherham and the Dental Access Service in Mexborough. What we do. This is a referral service for the treatment of severely anxious and phobic patients over the age of 16 years under IV sedation. Referral to this service can only be made by general dental practitioners in Rotherham.
This informs employers in the NHS (England) of the freeze in the national pay rates of hospital, medical, and dental staff and doctors and dentists in public health, the community health service, salaried primary dental care and salaried general practitioners, effective from 1 April 2011. This pay circular notifies the changes in national pay and conditions of service of hospital medical and dental staff, doctors and dentists in public health, the community health service, salaried primary dental care and salaried GPs, with effect from 1 April 2009. Pay Circular (M&D) 5/2008 - Mileage rates.
Dental services in Oxford Health NHS Foundation Trust are provided by the Oxfordshire Salaried Primary Care Dental Service (OSPCDS). This service provides NHS dentistry to a wide range of patients including both adults and children. If the problem is more urgent, they can access out-of-hours dental services in their area by calling 111. OSPCDS operates an out-of-hours service at the times below, all users are required to call 111 to access this service.