Legal Assistant Job Description. This legal assistant sample job description can assist in your creating a job application that will attract job candidates who are qualified for the job. Feel free to revise this job description to meet your specific job duties and job requirements. Legal Assistant Job Duties: 1  Keeps cases organized by establishing and organizing files; monitoring calendars; meeting deadlines; documenting actions; inputting information into file database and case management software; confirming case status with attorney.
At the August 1997 ABA Annual Meeting, the ABA's policy making body, the House of Delegates, adopted the current definition of legal assistant/paralegal, as recommended by the Standing Committee on Legal Assistants. The current definition reads as follows: A legal assistant or paralegal is a person, qualified by education, training or work experience who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible.
The current definition of legal assistant/paralegal replaces the definition adopted by the ABA Board of Governors in 1986. It adds the term paralegal since the terms legal assistant and paralegal are, in practice, used interchangeably. A legal assistant or paralegal is a person, qualified by education, training or work experience who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible.
A: The administrative assistant legal job description is based on a number of diverse tasks and responsibilities. Legal administrative assistants usually provide a large amount of legal administrative support. They are required to carry out a number of tasks such as technical, secretarial, and administrative functions. The generalized training and education legal assistants receive enables them to fill a variety of managerial and administrative roles in various organizations which may or may not be included in the legal assistant job description.
Legal Secretary Job Description. A legal secretary is an administrative assistant trained exclusively in the field of law. Through a comprehensive and specialized training program, legal secretaries are proficient at handling all administrative duties within a law office or legal department setting. 
For example, the NALA offers a certified legal assistant credential. This credential is based on a two-day examination that includes legal research, legal terminology, ethics, communications, and four areas of Substantive Law chosen by the candidate. Legal assistants cannot represent a client or give legal advice. All work performed by legal assistants must be done under the supervision of an attorney, who is subject to disciplinary procedures for ethical violations committed by the legal assistant.
Legal Assistant. A person, working under the supervision of a lawyer, qualified through education, training, or work experience to perform substantive legal work that requires knowledge of legal concepts and is customarily, but not exclusively, performed by a lawyer; also known as a paralegal. Legal assistants cannot represent a client or give legal advice. All work performed by legal assistants must be done under the supervision of an attorney, who is subject to disciplinary procedures for ethical violations committed by the legal assistant.
The National Association of Legal Assistants (NALA) states that the terms paralegal and legal assistant are interchangeable. Therefore, a legal assistant job description is the same as a paralegal job description. Even though the job description for legal assistants may change depending on the firm and the attorney, several common tasks appear on the majority of legal assistant job descriptions. 1  Ability to perform legal research. 2  Draft legal documents. 3  Read case law and prepare case briefs