1 A precipitate is a solid formed in a solution as the result of a chemical reaction. 2  The reaction with baking soda solution and calcium chloride produced a white precipitate (calcium carbonate). 3  Another common precipitate is soap scum. 1 In the chemical reaction with baking soda solution and calcium chloride, breaking bonds between the atoms of sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) requires energy. 2  It also takes energy to break the bonds between the ions in calcium chloride.
Calcium Chloride CaCl2 is an inorganic salt, which exists in a solid form or as a liquid solution. Solid calcium chloride is a white, crystalline substance in the form of flake, granule or powder. Depending on the crystallized water contents, it can be dehydrate or anhydrous. Liquid calcium chloride is a colourless liquid.
CaCl 2(l) → Ca (s) + Cl 2(g). Calcium chloride has a very high enthalpy change of solution. A considerable temperature rise accompanies its dissolution in water. The anhydrous salt is deliquescent; it can accumulate enough water in its crystal lattice to form a solution. The anhydrous form of calcium chloride may also be used for this purpose and can provide a measure of the moisture in concrete. Calcium chloride is used in swimming pool water as a pH buffer and to adjust the calcium hardness of the water.
As baking soda and calcium chloride dissolve in a water-based indicator, temperature changes occur. As the dissolved chemicals mix in solution, carbon dioxide gas is created and the Ziplock bag swells. The gas mixes with water to produce a weak acid that changes the indicator color from red to yellow. 
Calcium chloride and baking soda solution: Exothermic. 1  In the chemical reaction with baking soda solution and calcium chloride, breaking bonds between the atoms of sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) requires energy. 2  It also takes energy to break the bonds between the ions in calcium chloride. 1 In the chemical reaction with baking soda solution and calcium chloride, breaking bonds between the atoms of sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) requires energy. 2  It also takes energy to break the bonds between the ions in calcium chloride.
1 The reaction with baking soda solution and calcium chloride produced a white precipitate (calcium carbonate). 2  Another common precipitate is soap scum. 3  You can add a soap solution to an Epsom salt solution to produce a soap scum precipitate. 1 In the chemical reaction with baking soda solution and calcium chloride, breaking bonds between the atoms of sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) requires energy. 2  It also takes energy to break the bonds between the ions in calcium chloride.
1 Chemical reactions can also form a precipitate. 2  A precipitate is a solid formed in a solution as the result of a chemical reaction. 3  The reaction with baking soda solution and calcium chloride produced a white precipitate (calcium carbonate). 4  Another common precipitate is soap scum. 1 In the chemical reaction with baking soda solution and calcium chloride, breaking bonds between the atoms of sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) requires energy. 2  It also takes energy to break the bonds between the ions in calcium chloride.
Skin Contact Solid calcium chloride might cause mild skin irritation (dry skin). Aqueous solutions or solid in contact with wet skin might cause severe irritation or burns. Eye Contact Causes mechanical abrasion or burns from heat of hydrolysis and chloride irritation. 
Calcium chloride can serve as a source of calcium ions in an aqueous solution, as calcium chloride is soluble in water. This property can be useful for displacing ions from solution. For example, phosphate is displaced from solution by calcium: The anhydrous form of calcium chloride may also be used for this purpose and can provide a measure of the moisture in concrete. Calcium chloride is used in swimming pool water as a pH buffer and to adjust the calcium hardness of the water.