Mammary gland. Mammary gland. (Science: anatomy) milk producing gland of female mammals. An adapted sweat Gland, it is made up of milk producing alveolar cells, surrounded by contractile myoepithelial cells, together with considerable numbers of fat cells. Milk production is hormonally controlled. 
mammary gland. organ of the female mammal that produces and secretes milk for the nourishment of the young. A mammal may have from 1 to 11 pairs of mammary glands, depending on the species. Generally, those mammals that bear larger litters have more glands. The mammary gland of the cow and of some other mammals is known as the udder. Mammary gland. A unique anatomical structure of mammals that secretes milk for the nourishment of the newborn. The mammary gland contains thousands of milk-producing units called alveoli, each of which consists of a unicellular layer of epithelial cells arranged in a spheroid structure.
noun. The milk-producing gland of women or other female mammals. Example sentences. 1  Some mutations involving the hair are accompanied by defects of the skin and its appendages, such as nails, teeth, sebaceous glands, and mammary glands. 
mammary gland. n. 1. (Anatomy) any of the milk-producing glands in mammals. In higher mammals each gland consists of a network of tubes and cavities connected to the exterior by a nipple. 2. (Zoology) any of the milk-producing glands in mammals. mam·ma·ry gland. One of the glands in female mammals that produces milk. It is present but undeveloped in the male. In most animals, the gland opens onto the surface by means of a nipple or teat.
Mammary duct. In mammals, a mammary duct is present in order to produce milk. The mammary duct is an organ known as an exocrine gland, which is a type of gland that secretes a substance. The mammary duct is an enlarged sweat gland. The mammary gland, or mammary duct, is composed of alveoli.
Mammary gland. The mammary gland is a gland located in the breasts of females that is responsible for lactation, or the production of milk. Both males and females have glandular tissue within the breasts; however, in females the glandular tissue begins to develop after puberty in response to estrogen release.
mammary. pertaining to the mammary gland. mammary abscess. usually an abscess of connective and subcutaneous tissue with no abnormality of the milk. used in the classification of human breast tumors as an aid to prognosis; five grades of severity based on morphological criteria, especially degree of local invasion and lymph node involvement. mammary underdevelopment. congenital lack of development of all glands, possibly an inherited defect.