Learn More About GUST. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for gust. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of gust. Nglish: Translation of gust for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of gust for Arabic speakers. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about gust. Origin of GUST. probably from Old Norse gustr; akin to Old High German gussa flood, and perhaps to Old English gēotan to pour — more at found. First Known Use: 1588
More specifically, the National Digital Forecast Database defines a wind gust as the maximum 3-second wind speed (in knots) forecast to occur within a 2-minute interval at a height of 10 meters (~32.8 feet). One of the highest non-tornadic wind gusts ever recorded occurred in 1934 at the top of Mount Washington. 
Wind is the flow of gases on a large scale. On the surface of the Earth, wind consists of the bulk movement of air. In outer space, solar wind is the movement of gases or charged particles from the Sun through space, while planetary wind is the outgassing of light chemical elements from a planet's atmosphere into space. 
Wind Speed & Gusts, with Barbs learn more. The Wind Speed and Gusts, with Barbs map displays the current wind speeds (in mph) at each Mesonet site. The wind barb is an arrow that depicts the wind speed and direction. 
Wind speed, or wind flow velocity, is a fundamental atmospheric rate. Wind speed is caused by air moving from high pressure to low pressure, usually due to changes in temperature. Wind speed is now commonly measured with an anemometer but can also be classified using the older Beaufort scale which is based on people's observation of specifically defined wind effects.
Wind Gust. Is a sudden, brief increase in speed of the wind. According to U.S. weather observing practice, gusts are reported when the peak wind speed reaches at least 16 knots and the variation in wind speed between the peaks and lulls is at least 9 knots. The duration of a gust is usually less than 20 seconds. 
Example Sentences Including 'gust'. A strong, moisture-laden gust of wind came off the ocean. The room acted like a lung, sucking in a deep gust of icy air. A gust of cold wind met him in the street; March was declining to give way to April. 
gust 1. n. 1. A strong, abrupt rush of wind. 2. A sudden burst, as of rain or smoke. 3. An outburst of emotion. intr.v. gust·ed, gust·ing, gusts. gust 1. 1. a sudden strong blast of wind. 2. a sudden rush or burst, as of water or fire. 3. an outburst of passionate feeling. 4. to blow or rush in gusts.