The vertebral column (also known as the backbone or the spine), is a column of approximately 33 small bones, called vertebrae. The column runs from the cranium to the apex of the coccyx, on the posterior aspect of the body. It contains and protects the spinal cord. 
The series of vertebrae extending from the base of the skull to the coccyx (tailbone) that forms the supporting axis of the body in vertebrate animals. It encloses and protects the spinal cord and provides a stable attachment for the muscles of the trunk. Also called backbone, spinal column, spine. vertebral column. (or backbone or spine) The column of vertebrae between the skull and the hip bones, supporting the body and shielding the spinal cord. It has five sections: cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. See also coccyx, sacrum
The vertebral column usually consists of 33 vertebrae: 24 presacral vertebrae (7 cervical, 12 thoracic, and 5 lumbar) followed by the sacrum (5 fused sacral vertebrae) and the coccyx (4 frequently fused coccygeal vertebrae). The 24 presacral vertebrae allow movement and hence render the vertebral column flexible. 
The Spinal Column. The spine (also called the vertebral column or spinal column) is composed of a series of bones called vertebrae stacked one upon another. There are four regions of the spine: 1  cervical (neck). 2  thoracic (chest/trunk). 3  lumbar (low back)
Vertebral column of a goat. The vertebral column, also known as the backbone or spine, is a bony skeletal structure found in vertebrates. It is formed from individual bones called vertebrae (singular: vertebra), which houses the spinal canal, a cavity that encloses and protects the spinal cord. There about 50,000 species of animals that have a vertebral column. The human vertebral column is one of the most-studied examples.
The vertebral column is made up of 33 bones, called vertebrae, which are stacked in a slightly curved formation from the base of the skull through the entire length of the back. 
Vertebral column: The 33 vertebrae that fit together to form a flexible, yet extraordinarily tough, column that serves to support the back through a full range of motion. The vertebral column also protects the spinal cord, which runs from the brain through the hollow space in the middle of the vertebral column. 
The vertebral column is composed of a series of 31 separate bones known as vertebrae. There are seven cervical or neck vertebrae, 12 thoracic vertebrae, and five lumbar vertebrae. The sacrum is composed of five fused vertebrae, and there are two coccygeal vertebrae which are sometimes fused (fig. 1). In the normal adult there are four curvatures in the vertebral column in an anteroposterior plane. These serve to align the head with a vertical line through the pelvis (fig. 2).
The spine, also known as the vertebral column or spinal column, is a column of 26 bones in an adult body – 24 separate vertebrae interspaced with cartilage, and then additionally the sacrum and coccyx.... 