It is a symbol of Earth, the 4th element. Fours are here to build a firm foundation, to labor with concentration and secure the right to work out their patterns of freedom from any obstacles-poverty, heartache and failure. Fours are very down-to-earth, good grounded people. You are generous but like to see returns from your giving. You have an executive ability, you are a leader. You are moral, balanced, honest and intellectual, and you may attain spirituality.
A nephew is a son of one's sibling or half-sibling, and a niece is a daughter of one's sibling or half-sibling. Sons and daughters of siblings-in-law are also referred to as nephews and nieces respectively, even though there is no blood relation. The word nephew is derived from the French word neveu. 1  Nephew – son of one's brother/sister (and his/her spouse). 2  Niece – daughter of one's sister/brother (and her/his spouse).
[ syll. la-nie-ce, lan-i- ece ] The baby girl name Laniece is pronounced as LAHN IY-S- †. Laniece is used mostly in English and it is of English-American origin. Laniece is a derivative of the English name Laneisha. Laniece is seldom used as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Laniece include Lameese, Liena, Lacina, Lagina (English), Lagoona, Lagoonah, Lagouna, Lagounah, Laguna, Lagunah, Lahoma (English), Laiona, Lakenya (English), Lakshana (Indian), Lakshmea, Lamea, Lameah, Lanaia, Lanetta (English), and Laquana (English).
People's names in several cultures include one or more additional names placed between the first given name and the surname. Middle names can be either given names (as in Anthony Michael Hall) or surnames (as in George Walker Bush). In some other countries, the term middle name is only used for names that are originally last names, but not part of the last name of the bearer (for instance one can have one's mother's maiden name as a middle name).
The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME. You are generous but like to see returns from your giving. You have an executive ability, you are a leader. You are moral, balanced, honest and intellectual, and you may attain spirituality.
[ 3 syll. la-nei -(s) ha, lan-ei-sha ] The baby girl name Laneisha is pronounced as LaaN IY-SH-aa- †. Laneisha is an English name of English-American origin. The name is derived from the combination of the prefix ' La -' and the name Keneisha or Aisha. The name Lanecia, the name Laneesha, the name Lanesha, the English Lanice, the English Laniece, and the name Lanisha are derivatives of Laneisha. Laneisha is not popular as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Laniece is a rare first name for women. Laniece is an equivalently rare surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of the girl name Laniece and associated names. Prominent alternative forms of Laniece (outside Top 1000) are Lavonne, Latrice, Latisha and Latifah.
It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Janice is God is gracious. Derivative of Jane with the suffix-ice from names like Candice and Bernice. Probably first coined as the name of the heroine of the novel Janice Meredith (1899) by Paul Leicester Ford. Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of Janice and corresponding names. Prominent variation forms of Janice rated in the Top 1000 are Bernice, Candice, Jan, Janae (#932 a year ago) , Jane (#322) , Janessa (#761) , Janie, Janine, Janis, Jeanie and Kandice.
List of African baby names, African baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & African names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of African baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Laniece in African origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details.