Put the potatoes on the grill, cut side down, directly over the hottest part of the fire. Cover the grill (if you're using a charcoal grill, cover it only partially and make sure the bottom vents are open). Cook the potatoes until deep reddish-golden brown, 4 to 6 minutes, and turn them over onto their other cut side.
Grilling baked potatoes whole takes 30-45 minutes in foil on the grill, if the potatoes are whole. If you’re running short on time, parboil your potatoes for 10 minutes before you put them on the grill or microwave them for 3 minutes per side, and you’ll only need to grill your baked potatoes for 5-10 minutes.
Cover and grill until nicely colored, another 4 to 6 minutes. Move the potatoes to the cooler side of the grill, flipping them so they're skin side down. Cover and grill until tender when pierced with a sharp knife, about another
Here are answers to frequently asked questions about cooking times for baked potatoes. How Long To Bake A Potato. Bake a potato for 45 minutes, in the oven at 400°. Clean the potato thoroughly, wrap it in foil, vent it with a fork 5 times, and place it on a cookie sheet or directly onto the oven rack. To test that your potato’s properly cooked, poke it with a toothpick to check for tenderness.
1 You can also speed up the process of grilling baked potatoes by microwaving each whole potato for about 2-4 minutes per side (without the foil, of course) before finishing the baking on the grill for 5-10 minutes.
Baked potatoes that have been cut into slices or wedges, 5-10 minutes on the grill. How To Make A Baked Potato. Conventional Oven Baked Potatoes: Wrap the potato in foil, poke it with a fork 5 times for venting, and bake it in the oven for 45 minutes at 400°. Grilling Baked Potatoes: Wrap the potato in foil, poke it with a fork 5 times, and place it on the grill for 45 minutes.
1 The amount of heat and the size of the potatoes determine their cooking time. 2  Generally, when grilled with the lid down, whole foil wrapped potatoes take 30 to 45 minutes to cook through. 3  In the last 5 to 10 minutes of cooking, you can remove the potatoes from the foil and return them to the grill, unwrapped.
Baked potatoes on the grill, whole, 45 minutes. Baked potatoes on the grill, sliced, 5-10 minutes. Baked potatoes in the microwave, 2-4 minutes per side, depending on the size of the potato and the strength of the microwave. How Long Does It Take To Grill Baked Potatoes.