Sedentary activities include sitting, reading, watching television, playing video games, and computer use for much of the day with little or no vigorous physical exercise. A sedentary lifestyle can contribute to many preventable causes of death. Screen time is the amount of time a person spends watching a screen such as a television, computer monitor, or mobile device. It is shown to be a risk factor on its own independent of hard exercise and BMI. The more still, the higher risk of chronic diseases. People that sit still more than 4 hours per day have a 40 percent higher risk than those that sit fewer than 4 hours per day.
The vocational guidelines for Social Security disability define work activity as medium, light, or sedentary. This is how these work activity levels are defined. 1  Sedentary work means that you are able to sit for up to 6 hours in an 8 hour day and lift up to 10 lbs. occasionally during a day. Social Security medical consultants assign an applicant a residual functional capacity (RFC) level of sedentary, light, or medium work, and then disability claims examiners use the RFC to see if the applicant can be expected to work by using a vocational grid pubished by Social Security.
Photo: yourdon /Flickr. A sedentary lifestyle is defined by an excessive amount of daily sitting. Be it to watch television, work the computer, or even read, its negative health influences include increased anxiety, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, depression and more. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. A sedentary lifestyle is a mode of living in which a person, an adult or child, does not engage in sufficient physical activity or exercise for what is generally considered healthy living. Post 4. @Cafe41 - I think that a lot of people live a sedentary life because they are so busy. Many people have very demanding jobs in which they have to travel constantly. Although there are gyms in the hotels this type of lifestyle does make it more difficult to maintain a healthy lifestyle.
The consequences of sedentary lifestyle are obvious. Obesity, heart disease, colon cancer, diabetes and hypertension are linked to sedentary lifestyle. In addition, mood disorders are more common in those with sedentary lifestyle. Substance use and abuse is more common in those who are physically inactive. Overall, reversing a sedentary lifestyle is one of the most rewarding lifestyle changes a person can undertake. Initiation of exercise releases the body s natural opioids; the phenomenon of runner s high is well documented. Plus, becoming active can have nearly immediate reinforcing effects.
A sedentary lifestyle is a type of lifestyle with no or irregular physical activity. A person who lives a sedentary lifestyle may colloquially be known as a slob or couch potato. It is commonly found in both the developed and developing world. It is shown to be a risk factor on its own independent of hard exercise and BMI. The more still, the higher risk of chronic diseases. People that sit still more than 4 hours per day have a 40 percent higher risk than those that sit fewer than 4 hours per day.
What is a sedentary man? A sedentary person is someone who lives in a single place for a extended period of time (many years)opposed to Nomadic people who move very frequently. A sedentary lifestyle (which is the context that sedentary is most commonly used in) means an inactive lifestyle. A quiet lifestyle, as opposed to lazy.
First, you may be wondering what we are referring to when we mention a sedentary lifestyle. A sedentary lifestyle is defined as a type of lifestyle where an individual does not receive regular amounts of physical activity. Overall, sedentary jobs have increased 83% since 1950 and physically active jobs now make up only about 25% of our workforce, which is 50% less than in 1950. Additionally, our average work week is longer. Americans now work 47 hours a week–164 more hours a year than 20 years ago.
The more active we are the more energy we expend. The energy cost of an activity can be expressed as multiples of metabolic rate (to account for differences in body size) as a metabolic energy equivalent (MET) or physical activity ratio (PAR). 