ON THE WEB: Toaster History In the decade following the invention of the toaster, toasters sparked a great deal of public interest, and a variety of toaster models were produced. Then, in 1919 the toaster was improved dramatically by Charles Strite's invention of the automatic or pop-up toaster. (URL:www.bergen ...
While General Electric built the first electric toaster for the home in 1909, it was 10 years later when Minnesota mechanic Charles Strite created an easy-to-use toaster designed for restaurants. He received his patent for the slice toaster in 1921 and formed the Waters-Genter Company to manufacture his product.
Strite patented his toaster in 1919 and began selling it to restaurants under the brand name Toastmaster. Because each toaster was made by hand, production was extremely slow. In 1925, Murray Ireland joined the company and redesigned Strite's original plans so that the toasters could be mass-produced.
In order to accommodate bagels and thicker slices of bread, the 2-slice toaster was manufactured with wider slots; heat-resistant plastic was also used to make toasters more economical. The cheaper construction methods made even a 4-slice toaster or 6-slice toaster more affordable for families.
In 1910, William Hadaway went on to design the first toaster made by Westinghouse, a horizontal combination toaster-cooker. One major improvement in electric ovens was the invention of resistor heating coils, a familar design in ovens also seen in hotplates.
Credit for the invention of the first practical electric toaster  goes to Charles P. Strite of Stillwater, Minnesota. It's said that  Strite had grown tired of the smell (an … d most certainly the taste!)  of burnt toast in the company cafeteria, so he set out to fix the  problem.
The Waters Genter Company begins selling the Toastmaster model 1-A-1, the first automatic pop-up toaster made for home use. McGraw Electric acquired the Bersted Manufacturing Company, Chicago; the wholesale operation of McGraw Electric sold to Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company.
Toasting bread began as a method of prolonging the life of bread. It was very common activity in Roman times, 'tostum' is the latin word for scorching or burning. The first electric toaster was invented in 1893 in Great Britain by Crompton and Co (UK) and re-invented in 1909 in the United States. It only toasted one side of the bread at a time and it required a person to stand by and turn it off manually when the toast looked done.