Names. We're pretty sure Dickens had one party of a time cooking up the names in this novel. For example, Pip is the nickname Pip gave himself, because he could not say his full name (Phillip Pirrip). Or Magwitch: he pretty much collects names, but we like this one the best, mainly because it sounds like a magnet met a witch. The witch part of his name is very interesting, because we fancy him to be a bit of a magician himself, a bit of a mysterious creature.
A person would be called by the word for an animal or force of nature in orde … r to bring valued attributes to that person. Later names described something about a person and referred to what they did, what they looked like or where they came from. As a result, most names derive from a word with some meaning. However, in many cases the knowledge of that meaning is lost in everyday usage ad is merely an interesting but trivial piece of information, not expected to reflect any actual aspect of the person using the name. The idiomatic phrase you name it is a way of describing the completeness or wide extent of a collection or group. Whatever individual version of a thing or concept you can s … elect (name) is already included in the group.
Consider the symbolism or significance of the character names: “Estella”, the “Pockets”, “Havisham”, and “Drummle”. Explain how their names reflect their role in the story or reveal some aspect of their personalities. 
Estella, whose name means star is perceived as an almost ethereal being of great beauty by the naive Pip. Of course, the figurative irony of her name is later revealed. Mr. Jaggers, then, is a character whose name has meaning that extends beyond the identity of his person. For, as Pip describes him in Chapter 18, The strange gentleman, with an air of authority not to be disputed, and a manner expressive of knowing something secret about every one of us.... Instead, any other name would not work for many of his characters since these names are symbolic. That is, the names represent more than the literal nomenclature of a character; the names have figurative meanings as well. One such example of a character whose silly name indicates his foolish nature is Uncle Pumblechook.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Drummle is an ancient Irish name for a hilltop fortress, usually built as a lookout point on top of an old faery ring or Drumlin. The idiomatic phrase you name it is a way of describing the completeness or wide extent of a collection or group. Whatever individual version of a thing or concept you can s … elect (name) is already included in the group.
Dickens’ uses pathetic fallacy by the mists to demonstrate clarity of thinking. Whenever the mists rise, Pip is able to see things around him clearly. When the mists are present, they can symbolize danger and uncertainty like when Magwitch attacks Pip, shortly after arriving in London or before the attack of Orlick. Dickens uses the ever so famous archetype of light to represent the goodness and dark to represent the evil or unknown. Joe’s character almost emits light to guide Pip along the way while the Satis House is almost completely dark.
Like the protagonist, Pip, Estella is introduced as an orphan, but where Pip was raised by his sister and her husband to become a blacksmith, Estella was adopted and raised by the wealthy and eccentric Miss Havisham to become a lady. Estella Havisham (best known in literature simply as Estella) is a significant character in the Charles Dickens novel, Great Expectations.
Read an in-depth analysis of Pip. Estella-Miss Havisham’s beautiful young ward, Estella is Pip’s unattainable dream throughout the novel. He loves her passionately, but, though she sometimes seems to consider him a friend, she is usually cold, cruel, and uninterested in him. Analysis of Major Characters. Pip-The protagonist and narrator of Great Expectations, Pip begins the story as a young orphan boy being raised by his sister and brother-in-law in the marsh country of Kent, in the southeast of England.
Jaggers actually likes Drummle (well, he is a shady lawyer), but tells Pip to stay away from him. Drummle eventually marries Estella, to Pip's great anguish, and he becomes an abusive husband. He dies while mistreating a horse, and we're only a little sorry. 