If you have Windows Phone 8: Update 3 or later, you can manually trigger this aggressive clean-up process in your phone storage settings. On Windows Phone 8.1, in the App list, go to Storage Sense Phone Temporary files, and then tap Delete. On Windows Phone 8, go to Settings Phone storage instead of Storage Sense.
Share files over a home network or on a shared PC. To share files and folders on your network (homegroup, workgroup, or domain) or on a PC that you share with other people, you can also use the Share tab in File Explorer. The next sections provide more info about this type of sharing.
How-To Geek. Share a folder with Windows’ built-in sharing options and you can access it on an Android device, iPad, or iPhone. This is a convenient way to stream videos from your PC or access other files wirelessly.
Choose how you want to share the file or folder. For more info about the sharing options on OneDrive, see. Use the Share charm. In many Windows Store apps, you can share files with other people by using
This video shows how-to use Wifi file sharing to transfer files between Wifi-enabled Windows Phone 8 (WP8) apps and other devices. Important: the information is transfered unencrypted over the Wifi network. Thus, use this only if you are either in a secure network, or the data is not important.
In situations like these, you may want to just connect your phone to a computer, copy the files to the computer, and then connect the other person’s phone to the computer and copy the files onto the other phone.
Step 1: Right-click on the folder you want to share on your Windows and click on Properties to open the folder properties. Navigate to the Sharing tab and click on the Share button to open the File Sharing window.
Get to your files, where and when you need them. Use ShareFile on your iOS, Android, Windows or Blackberry device to access, share, request and even edit files from anywhere, with the security you expect from ShareFile. See how our mobile apps work. Get a text with a link to download the app.