sodium hydroxide. NaOH, a whitish solid, soluble in water and making a clear solution. It is an antacid and a caustic. It is used in laundry detergents and in commercial compounds to clean sink traps, toilets, and in the preparation of soap. 1 Administer solution via rectal tube or 28-French Foley catheter with 30-mL balloon. 2  Insert tube at least 20 cm and tape in place. 3  For retention enema, add powder to 100 mL of prescribed solution (usually sorbitol or 20% dextrose in water).
Stiff-person syndrome (SPS) is a rare neurological disorder with features of an autoimmune disease. SPS is characterized by fluctuating muscle rigidity in the trunk and limbs and a heightened sensitivity to stimuli such as noise, touch, and emotional distress, which can set off muscle spasms. Abnormal postures, often hunched over and stiffened, are characteristic of the disorder. It is frequently associated with other autoimmune diseases such as diabetes, thyroiditis, vitiligo, and pernicious anemia. Scientists don’t yet understand what causes SPS, but research indicates that it is the result of an autoimmune response gone awry in the brain and spinal cord. The disorder is often misdiagnosed as Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, fibromyalgia, psychosomatic illness, or anxiety and phobia
Figure 1 represents an example of how an. system could be physically assembled to support the full storage and data protection needs of two geographically dispersed sites--including the full recovery of all data in either site in the event of a single site failure.
Origin of SPS. Latin sine prole superstite. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
SPS. Stands for the Standardized Pump Scale.. A scale used to indicate a girl's hotness. The assigned numerical value is determined by estimating the amount of pumps it would take to ejaculate while having sexual intercourse with the girl. The lower the number of pumps, the hotter the girl.
According to Annex A of the SPS Agreement, an SPS measure is any measure applied: 1  to protect animal or plant life or health within the territory of the Member from risks arising from the entry, establishment or spread of pests, diseases, disease-carrying organisms or disease-causing organisms; 
What Does LPS And SPS Mean? in the Corals forums, part of the Saltwater Aquarium Fish and Reef Tank Forum category. Hey All You SW Experts, What Does &quot; LPS &quot; and &quot; SPS &quot; mean. It has to do with the size of the polyps. LPS (Large Polyp Stony) corals have, as the name implies, large polyps. These include brains, candy cane, Frogspawn, hammer, etc. SPS (Small Polyp Stony) corals have small polyps; these are your acros, birdsnest, digitata, etc.
(S tandby P ower S ystem) A UPS system that switches to battery backup upon detection of power failure. See UPS. Computer Desktop Encyclopedia THIS DEFINITION IS FOR PERSONAL USE ONLY All other reproduction is strictly prohibited without permission from the publisher. 
Short for Standby Power Supply, an SPS contains a circuit that is capable of telling if and when a disturbance in electricity occurs. When a disturbance occurs, the SPS switches to battery power, however, if the SPS switch time is not fast enough, all power may still be lost. Higher quality SPS systems offer a ferroresonant transformer that offers a small amount of power while switching takes place.