Desmond Hume is a character from the ABC television show Lost. Also Known As: Desmond. First Appearance: Lost : Man of Science, Man of Faith. Desmond Hume, played by Henry Ian Cusick, is a character from the ABC television show Lost. Desmond was the first character we see in the second season. We see him working on his daily routine, and from the looks of it he had been doing it for a long time
Desmond's name is a tribute to David Hume, the famous empiricist philosopher. Desmond was not a passenger of Flight 815. He had been stranded on the island three years prior to the crash as the result of a shipwreck. In 2006 Cusick's portrayal was nominated for an Emmy. In 2007 a two-week-long tournament style competition for Lost' s best character with over six thousand voters hosted by the Washington Post voted Desmond the winner.
Henry Ian Cusick was born in Trujillo, Peru, to a Peruvian mother (Esperanza Chavez) chávez and A scottish (Father Henry Joseph). Cusick when he was, two his family moved To, Madrid, spain Then, Glasgow, scotland before moving To trinidad And tobago where they lived for ten. years After appearing in recurring roles in series such as Casualty and The Book Group, he starred as Jesus Christ in the 2003 film The Visual Bible: The Gospel of John. His largest role to date came in 2005 when he was cast as Desmond Hume in the ABC series Lost.
Henry Ian Cusick (born 17 April 1967) is a Peruvian-born British actor of television, film, and theatre. He is well known for his role as Desmond Hume on the U.S. television series Lost, for which he received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination. He starred in the ABC drama Scandal, as Stephen Finch, and is currently starring as Marcus Kane In the CW drama The 100. After appearing in recurring roles in series such as Casualty and The Book Group, he starred as Jesus Christ in the 2003 film The Visual Bible: The Gospel of John. His largest role to date came in 2005 when he was cast as Desmond Hume in the ABC series Lost.
Official Photos ». Henry Ian Cusick was born on April 17, 1967 in Trujillo, Peru. He is an actor, known for Lost (2004), Hitman (2007) and Half Light (2006). He has been married to Annie Cusick Wood since May 2, 1992. They have three children. See full bio ».
This song is played by Kelvin inside the hatch with Desmond when they fake the Lockdown to work on the hatch's blast door map. When Juliet plays Patula Clark Down Town, Juliet takes the CD out of the CD jewel case, Talking Heads Speaking In Tongues; The liner art can be seen in the CD case. This song is being played inside Charlie and Liam's apartment. While Libby and Hurley are doing laundry in the hatch, this song is heard on the record player. One of the last notes of this song is heard when Sayid and Hurley are trying to receive a signal on the radio.
Desmond David Hume was a Scotsman who spent years on the Island. He had a number of unusual experiences there with electromagnetism, sending his mind repeatedly through time. Before coming to the Island, Desmond's life seemed to be defined by failure. In 2007, Desmond awoke with a sudden memory of instructions from Daniel on the Island. He traveled to London, against Penny's recommendations, to seek out Daniel 's mother, but no record of Faraday remained there.
Desmond David Hume is a fictional character on the ABC television series Lost portrayed by Henry Ian Cusick. In 2006 Cusick's portrayal was nominated for an Emmy. In 2007 a two-week-long tournament style competition for Lost' s best character with over six thousand voters hosted by the Washington Post voted Desmond the winner.