Welcome to Our Online Catalogue. The Lutterworth Press is one of the oldest independent British publishing houses. We have been trading since the late 18th Century, and have built up a worldwide reputation for publishing books of high quality by authors of distinction. Our sister imprint, James Clarke and Co Ltd, specialises in academic and theological titles.
Location. Lutterworth is a city/town with a small population in the state/region of Leicestershire, England which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Lutterworth include Broughton Astley, Sapcote, Cosby and Rugby. The closest major cities include Leicester, Coventry, Birmingham and Derby
detailed map of Lutterworth and near places. Welcome to the Lutterworth google satellite map! This place is situated in Leicestershire County, East Midlands, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 52° 27' 0 North, 1° 12' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Lutterworth. Lutterworth hotel deals. Luxury hotels (including 5 star hotels and 4 star hotels) and cheap Lutterworth hotels (with best discount rates and up-to-date hotel deals) are both available in separate lists. Always bear in mind that with Maplandia.com and Booking.com the best price is guaranteed!
The name of Lutterworth is probably derived from the Old Norse name Lutter's Vordig meaning Luther's farm. Lutterworth was mentioned in the Domesday Book of 1086. The town was granted its market charter in 1214 by King John and continues to hold a market to this day, every Thursday. This former abattoir and butcher's is the oldest timber-framed building in Lutterworth dating back to the 16th century, it was a first used as a public house in 1791 until 1840 it was then converted back to a home and butcher's shop. In 1982 it was converted back into a public house and named the Shambles.
France. Lutterworth is a city/town with a small population in the state/region of Leicestershire, England which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Lutterworth include Broughton Astley, Sapcote, Cosby and Rugby. The closest major cities include Leicester, Coventry, Birmingham and Derby
Lutterworth is a market town and civil parish in the Harborough district of Leicestershire, England. The town is located in southern Leicestershire, 6.8 mi (10.9 km) north of Rugby, in Warwickshire and 15 mi (24 km) south of Leicester. This former abattoir and butcher's is the oldest timber-framed building in Lutterworth dating back to the 16th century, it was a first used as a public house in 1791 until 1840 it was then converted back to a home and butcher's shop. In 1982 it was converted back into a public house and named the Shambles.
At the southern most tip of Leicestershire, Lutterworth is an attractive market town which has twice made its mark on world history. 
In the 14th century religious reformer Canon John Wycliffe was Rector in Lutterworth's Parish Church of St Mary between 1374 and 1384, and it was here that he is traditionally believed to have produced the first translation of the Bible from Latin into English. This former abattoir and butcher's is the oldest timber-framed building in Lutterworth dating back to the 16th century, it was a first used as a public house in 1791 until 1840 it was then converted back to a home and butcher's shop. In 1982 it was converted back into a public house and named the Shambles.
Welcome to Lutterworth College. Formerly known as Lutterworth Grammar School, we have a long tradition of providing a quality education with high expectations for all our students both in and out of the classroom. Our motto is Sapere Aude or Dare to be Wise.
Welcome to Our Online Catalogue. The Lutterworth Press is one of the oldest independent British publishing houses. We have been trading since the late 18th Century, and have built up a worldwide reputation for publishing books of high quality by authors of distinction. You do not have to create an account with us in order to browse our catalogue, but an account is required to purchase books on our website. Guests can also sign up to our mailing list without creating an account.