Best Answer: Plants do not have centrioles just centrosomes. Animal cells have centrioles, so as to what produces the spindle fibers is one of the differences between plant and animal mitosis. The phases of mitosis and what goes on in each phase is the same except when it comes to how cytokinesis is accomplished. The difference between plant cells and animal cells has to do with structure and function. Plant cells have chloroplasts, have a cell wall, a sap vacoule.. and thats all I can think of. Animal cells dont have these features with several temporary vacuoles.
The differences between a plant and animal cell are that plant cells have cell walls and animal cells only have a cell membrane. The cell wall is more protective than the cell … membrane. The cell wall is also what gives the crunchy texture in celery. The other difference is that plant cells have chloroplasts. A plant cell has a cell wall made of cellulose. However, an animal cell will lack a cell wall.   Another difference is their organelles, which are the tiny specialized stru … ctures in a cell that perform a certain function. Plant cells have chloroplasts, but animal cells don't
Question and answer. one difference between cell division in plant cells and in animal cells is that plant cells have a cell. Plants do not have centrioles just centrosomes. Animal cells have centrioles, so as to what produces the spindle fibers is one of the differences between plant and animal mitosis. [ The phases of mitosis and what goes on in each phase is the same except when it comes to how cytokinesis is accomplished.
The steps in cell division are very similar between plant and animal cells, but the formation of the spindle and cytokinesis are different in plants. There are five steps to mitosis: prophase, prometaphase, metaphase, anaphase and telophase. 
Plant cells divide the cytoplasm between the two new nuclei by forming a cell plate (new cell wall) between the nuclei. Animal cells accomplish this by forming a cleavage furrow which is a pinching in at the middle of the cell until two new cells have been formed with cytoplasm and organelles for each new nuclei. The difference between plant cells and animal cells has to do with structure and function. Plant cells have chloroplasts, have a cell wall, a sap vacoule.. and thats all I can think of. Animal cells dont have these features with several temporary vacuoles.
Best Answer: E is the correct answers. After the last phase of mitosis, animal cells undergo cytokinesis-a pinching of the cytoplasm and cell membrane into two separate entities. However, plant cells simply grow a new wall in the middle of the cell once chromosomes and organelles have separated from the metaphase plate. D)... show more What is one of the differences between cell division in plant cells and cell division in animal cells? A) Plant cells do not use a mitotic spindle to separate chromosomes. B) Plant cells separate chromosomes by attachment to the plasma membrane. C) In a plant cell, there is no nucleus around the chromosomes
The differences between a plant and animal cell are that plant cells have cell walls and animal cells only have a cell membrane. The cell wall is more protective than the cell … membrane. The cell wall is also what gives the crunchy texture in celery. The other difference is that plant cells have chloroplasts. In humans and most animals, cells formed by meiosis division become gametes (sperm or eggs). In plants,meiosis cell division results in the formation of meiospores that grow into haploid gametophytes. These gametophytes in turn produce gametes by mitotic division