Rainbow. A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection of light in water droplets in the Earth's atmosphere, resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky. Wiktionary (5.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: rainbow (Noun). A multicoloured arch in the sky, produced by prismatic refraction of light within droplets of rain in the air. rainbow (Noun). Any prismatic refraction of light showing a spectrum of colours. rainbow (Noun). A wide assortment; a varied multitude
What the Bible Says About Rainbows. Throughout Scripture, the rainbow symbolizes God’s glory — the radiance of his beauty, holiness, and perfection. Like the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud on the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness all around. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord.
Colors of the Rainbow and Their Meanings. The rainbow is a beautiful natural phenomenon; knowing the significance of each of the colors of the rainbow makes it even more beautiful. While Nature or God has created this glorious natural phenomenon; philosophers have given a meaning to its colors. 
As of 2008, the most common variant consists of six stripes, with the colors red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet. The flag is commonly flown horizontally, with the red stripe on top, as it would be in a natural rainbow. The rainbow flag is a symbol of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) pride and LGBT social movements in use since the 1970s.
ANSWER: Interestingly, we only need to look in three places in the Bible to discover the meaning of a rainbow and what certain colors mean. These places to study are found in the books of Genesis, Ezekiel and Revelation. 12. And God said, This is the sign of the covenant which I make between Me and you and every living creature with you, for everlasting generations: 13. I set My rainbow in the cloud, and it shall be the sign of the covenant between Me and the earth. . . and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
Where the Celts associated the meaning of rainbows with the promise of new life provided by the divine feminine, in Christianity, the rainbow is also a symbol of promise. We see evidence of this in Genesis, 9:13 - I have set my (rain)bow in the clouds, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth.. I hope you have enjoyed these thoughts about the symbolic meaning of rainbows, and this article has given you some colorful ideas about the potential this natural phenomenon can pose in your life. If you liked this page, you might want to check out other related topics at the end of this page.
It's a kickback from the ancient Celts. Because their meaning of rainbows is feminine-and the pot (or, back in their day, the cauldron) is a highly feminine symbol. Not to get too graphic, but in general...openings are feminine symbols, where as protrusions are male (you figure it out). The gold is symbolic of offspring. I hope you have enjoyed these thoughts about the symbolic meaning of rainbows, and this article has given you some colorful ideas about the potential this natural phenomenon can pose in your life. If you liked this page, you might want to check out other related topics at the end of this page.
The end of the Rainbow signifies a pot of gold and the magic that surrounds your dreams coming true, and the end of the rainbow is the enchanted magical land of leprechauns. Rainbow symbolism has such a powerful meaning to each of us and graciously bestows the energy of blessings. The symbolism of a Rainbow intuitively tells us to hold onto hope, to believe beyond a shadow of a doubt that sacred blessings open to us when we are following our hearts desire. This is the same color order as the color of Chakras, and the colors on a color wheel. Understanding the meaning of the colors, can be very helpful in knowing the significance of the deeper meaning of Rainbow symbolism, and the message it has for us at the time it appears for us.
The most common colors seen by the naked are, as listed by Isaac Newton: Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Indigo, and Violet. In English, a popular way of remembering these colors is to memorize the name ROY G. BIV.. The primary colors are red, yellow, green, blue and violet. 12. And God said, This is the sign of the covenant which I make between Me and you and every living creature with you, for everlasting generations: 13. I set My rainbow in the cloud, and it shall be the sign of the covenant between Me and the earth. . . and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.