: rule by a dictator: rule, control, or leadership by one person with total power. : a government or country in which total power is held by a dictator or a small group. 2. : autocratic rule, control, or leadership. 3. a: a form of government in which absolute power is concentrated in a dictator or a small clique b: a government organization or group in which absolute power is so concentrated c: a despotic state. See dictatorship defined for English-language learners.
A dictatorship is a form of government characterized by the absolute rule of one person or a very small group of people who hold all political power. While a dictatorship is a form of government in some nations, just as monarchy or representative democracy is the form of government in others, dictatorships are seen by non-dictatorships as dangerous and cruel because of the way they tend to treat their citizens.
In modern usage, the term dictator is generally used to describe a leader who holds and/or abuses an extraordinary amount of personal power, especially the power to make laws without effective restraint by a legislative assembly. The word originated as the title of a magistrate in ancient Rome appointed by the Senate to rule the republic in times of emergency (see Roman dictator and justitium).
A dictator is a ruler who wields absolute authority. A state ruled by a dictator is called a dictatorship. The word originated as the title of a magistrate in ancient Rome appointed by the Senate to rule the republic in times of emergency (see Roman dictator and justitium).
The term dictator is comparable to – but not synonymous with – the ancient concept of a tyrant; initially tyrant, like dictator, did not carry negative connotations. The word originated as the title of a magistrate in ancient Rome appointed by the Senate to rule the republic in times of emergency (see Roman dictator and justitium).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Dictatorship is a form of government where political authority is monopolized by a person or political entity, and exercised through various mechanisms to ensure the entity's power remains strong. 
1. dictatorship-a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.). monocracy, one-man rule, shogunate, Stalinism, totalitarianism, tyranny, authoritarianism, Caesarism, despotism, absolutism. 1. a country, government, or the form of government in which absolute power is exercised by a dictator. 2. absolute, imperious, or overbearing power or control. 3. the office or position hel
Lesson Summary. A dictatorship is a form of government characterized by the rule of one person or a small group of people who have no checks and balances on their power. While portrayed to their people as benevolent, loving rulers, dictators typically come to power simply to benefit themselves. While a dictatorship is a form of government in some nations, just as monarchy or representative democracy is the form of government in others, dictatorships are seen by non-dictatorships as dangerous and cruel because of the way they tend to treat their citizens.