The South Perth Foreshore (SPF) is an extensive area of public open space that occupies approximately 62 hectares of Swan River foreshore land. It stretches from the Narrows Bridge in the west to Ellam Street in the east, where it joins the Town of Victoria Park’s foreshore reserves, including McCallum Park. The primary aim in establishing the South Perth Foreshore Strategy and Management Plan (SPF Plan) is to balance the competing demands for use, development and management of this precious reserve with the need to conserve and enhance a functional healthy river and foreshore environment.
Noun. 1. foreshore-the part of the seashore between the highwater mark and the low-water mark. geological formation, formation - (geology) the geological features of the earth. coast, seacoast, sea-coast, seashore-the shore of a sea or ocea
The Cape Town Partnership explores the history and potential of this desolate, windswept part of the city. The conception and development of Cape Town’s Foreshore can only be described as a leap of the imagination. To begin with, the land on which it is built had to be physically reclaimed from the ocean. The Foreshore is one of the few areas near the Central Business District (CBD) where parking is ample, inexpensive or free. During the day, multi-coloured pools of cars, glittering in the sunlight, collect on its vast, unused stretches of land. At night these spaces are deserted and unsafe.
foreshore. n. 1. (Physical Geography) the part of the shore that lies between the limits for high and low tides. 2. (Physical Geography) the part of the shore that lies just above the high-water mark. 1. foreshore-the part of the seashore between the highwater mark and the low-water mark. geological formation, formation - (geology) the geological features of the earth.
Foreshore land is a part of the shore, which is alternately covered and uncovered by the ebb and flow of the tide while on the other hand, marshy land is a wetland whose soil is permanently or protractedly saturated by water and whose vegetation is dominated by grasses or sedges. Coastal areas all over the Philippines are being developed rapidly since people like to live and do business near the sea. The consequences is that beaches and foreshore land areas are in demand and are being utilized for industry, construction, dumping, boat landings, recreation, habitation, and many other uses.
PO Box 50 / 9 Stirling Hwy, North Fremantle WA 6159 | Ph: (08) 9430 8955 | Fax: (08) 9430 8977 | www.ecoscape.com.au science+designWith over 20,000km of coastline as well as numerous rivers and lakes, foreshore development is an area of particular importance in Western Australia. 
Foreshore land is a part of the shore, which is alternately covered and uncovered by the ebb and flow of the tide. (DAO 99-34, series 1999). 3. That part of the land adjacent to the sea, which is alternately covered and left dry by the ordinary flow of the tides. 
Foreshore land is a part of the shore, which is alternately covered and uncovered by the ebb and flow of the tide. DAO 99-35, series 1999. That part of the land adjacent to the sea, which is alternately covered and left dry by the ordinary flow of the tides. Coastal areas all over the Philippines are being developed rapidly since people like to live and do business near the sea. The consequences is that beaches and foreshore land areas are in demand and are being utilized for industry, construction, dumping, boat landings, recreation, habitation, and many other uses.
Much of the Foreshore area is occupied by transport infrastructure for the port and Cape Town Railway Station. Other notable buildings in the area are the Cape Town Civic Centre, the Artscape Theatre Centre and the Cape Town International Convention Centre. When the area was reclaimed, the Government undertook a detailed study (the Szlumper Commission) to decide how to utilize the land not needed by South African Railways. This resulted in the issuance of a detailed proposal, The Cape Town Foreshore Pla
The Foreshore is an area in Cape Town, South Africa, situated between the historic city centre and the modern Port of Cape Town. Other notable buildings in the area are the Cape Town Civic Centre, the Artscape Theatre Centre and the Cape Town International Convention Centre. When the area was reclaimed, the Government undertook a detailed study (the Szlumper Commission) to decide how to utilize the land not needed by South African Railways.