Proportions: 1:2. Tongan Flag Description: The flag of Tonga consists of a red base with a white square in the upper left corner. There is a red cross centered on the white square. The white stands for purity and the red represents the blood Jesus shed at his crucifixion and reminds Tonga's people that they owe their salvation to him. Tongan Flag History: The Tongan flag originated in the 1860s and was adopted on November 4, 1875, making it one of the world's oldest flags.
Tonga used to fly a flag that was the same as the flag of the Red Cross organization, so the Tongan flag was changed to avoid confusion with it. An 1875 law states the Tongan flag should never be altered. The white stands for purity and the red represents the blood Jesus shed at his crucifixion and reminds Tonga's people that they owe their salvation to him. Tongan Flag History: The Tongan flag originated in the 1860s and was adopted on November 4, 1875, making it one of the world's oldest flags.
Tongan Flag Meaning: The red cross represents the country's belief in Christianity. The white stands for purity and the red represents the blood Jesus shed at his crucifixion and reminds Tonga's people that they owe their salvation to him. Tongan Flag History: The Tongan flag originated in the 1860s and was adopted on November 4, 1875, making it one of the world's oldest flags.
The flag itself is red with a white rectangle in the top left corner; within that rectangle is a red cross. The cross symbolizes Christianity, and in Christian symbolism, white stands for purity, and the red stands for the blood of Jesus Christ when he was crucified. 
The colors of the Tongan flag are red and white. The flag itself is red with a white rectangle in the top left corner; within that rectangle is a red cross. The cross symbo … lizes Christianity, and in Christian symbolism, white stands for purity, and the red stands for the blood of Jesus Christ when he was crucified. King George Tupou I ordered the cross on the Tongan flag symbolizing that he was giving Tonga to God. Thus the famous Tongan slogan, Ko e 'Otua mo Tonga ko hoku Tofi'a. (God and Tonga are my inheritance. Tongans (most) since then have been devout Christians.
The Tonga Flag is red in color with a white quarter at the upper left corner on the hoist-side of the flag. The white quarter bears a red cross placed at the center. The Red Cross is very much symbolic of the coming of Christianity to Tonga islands. The color red in the Tonga flag also represents the blood of Christ and his sacrifice. The white quarter symbolizes purity
The flag of Tonga consists of a red field with a white canton charged with a red couped cross. Adopted in 1875 after being officially enshrined into the nation's constitution, it has been the flag of the Kingdom of Tonga since that year. The constitution stipulates that the national flag can never be changed.
The flag of Tonga is a red field with a bold red cross on a white rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner; the cross reflects the deep-rooted Christianity in Tonga; red represents the blood of Christ and his sacrifice; white signifies purity. 
Print this map. Tonga Flag: The flag of Tonga was officially adopted on November 4, 1875. One of the oldest flags of the island countries in the South Pacific Ocean, the flag's widely recognized red cross is symbolic of Christianity coming to the islands; white symbolizes purity, and red represents the blood of Christ. Larger Tonga flag. Tonga Coat of Arms:
DESCRIPTION. The flag of Tonga was officially adopted on November 4, 1875. One of the oldest flags of the island countries in the South Pacific Ocean, the flag's widely recognized red cross is symbolic of Christianity coming to the islands; white symbolizes purity, and red represents the blood of Christ. all Country Flags here!