The greater amberjack is the most abundant, but the others certainly cannot be considered rare. It is a colorful fish with lavender and golden tints and an amber band from the eye along the middle of their body to the tail. The back is blue or olive green and the side and belly are silvery-white. Amberjacks are members of the jack family, Carangidae, and are found throughout Florida around natural or man made reefs, rock outcrops and wrecks. A close cousin to the Jack and Pompano, the Amberjack (Hardious Pullious) is slender and more streamline.
Amberjacks, members of the jack family (Carangidae), is the common name for fish of the genus Seriola. One of the largest (up to 6 feet) the greater amberjack (Seriola dumerili) , is found in the Mediterranean, the Caribbean the eastern seaboard of both North and South America, and in some parts of the Indo-Pacific. Amberjack are found throughout Florida around natural or man-made reefs, rock outcrops and wrecks
However, Amberjack is also farmed in Japan and Australia, using 3 or 4 different species of the Jack family. Wild Amberjack have the tendency to have parasites. Hiramasa from Japan is also an Amberjack but does not have a parasite tendency. This species of Amberjack is also farmed in Japan and Australia. Although there are sustainability issues with farmed Amberjack (see below), the meat of the farmed fish is generally considered to be a higher quality than the wild Amberjack.
Shark is definitely edible. You should know what kind of shark you have before deciding to cook it up and serve it to people. There are over 350 species of sharks and shark meat can be very salty (just depends on where the shark lives); however, many species are edible. Shark meat is delicious when properly prepared.
Trout,spot, croaker, flounder, pretty much all fish are edible but stay away from amberjack they have a parasitic worm ugh (but people do eat them) you can even eat shark meat, and blowfish. Source(s): sports fisherman. i want to go fishing for fish that people eat, like the ones they sell in the store. Update: what i meanby edible is that i know that you can eat any fish, but which ones are the ones that healthy for you. i had sheephead many times but i read that you shouldnt eat it.
Newsletter sign up. Newsletter sign up. There is a great deal of confusion as to what kind of fish exactly a Yellowtail Jack is. That's because it's actually a group of very closely-related fish, and people in different parts of the world use the family name to apply to the species that they catch near them. All members of the family have a lot in common. 
Re: are amberjack edible? Good question, we caught 4-5 nice Amberjack this past Monday. Guy I went with insisted they were not good to eat, but said he'd eaten one in the Gulf area and it was good. Are they safe to eat and are they good to eat? I read on a webpage that some amberjacks, like barracuda, can acquire cigueratoxin in their flesh from the reef fish that they eat. I've been told that barracudas caught around here (SE US coast) should not be eaten because of this toxin.
An astute fisherman might not be surprised to learn that there is more than one variety of amberjack in the Gulf – in fact, there are really four. The recognized common names of these are: greater amberjack, lesser amberjack, Almaco jack, and banded rudderfish. Amberjacks are members of the jack family, Carangidae, and are found throughout Florida around natural or man made reefs, rock outcrops and wrecks. A close cousin to the Jack and Pompano, the Amberjack (Hardious Pullious) is slender and more streamline.
Other Names. Amberjack, Coronado, Amberfish. Description. Greater amberjack is a large reef fish found in the Gulf. It is the largest and most common amberjack that lives along the coast.More slender than most jacks, they do not have finlets and the keel at the base of the tails is slight and soft. The back is bluish purple, the sides yellowish and the underside silver.