Extensions are more expensive: RICS gives a guide cost of between £1,260 and £1,680 per square metre for an extension with plastered finish. So a 20-square metre single-storey extension will range from £25,200 to £33,600 – before you've put down flooring or installed a kitchen. 
When it comes to an addition, extension or renovation you most likely know what you want but the big question is what it all costs. Some will tell you that there is a “cost per m 2 ” or a “cost per room” or that you can build a new home for half the “cost per m 2 ” of an addition, extension or renovation. 
A double storey extension can cost between £500 - £1500 per meter square. Planning costs can cost between £1000 - £27000, although the average price is around £5100. Basic conservatories cost around £500 per square metre to supply and fit. If the ground needs levelling this price will increase. These prices are a rough guideline to what you can expect to pay. A range of different factors will affect the final quote. It is very difficult to give an exact price of what you should expect to pay for an extension on your home. Prices can vary dramatically depending on a number of factors.
As a rough idea you can typically say that it will cost at least £1000 per m 2 or 93 per ft 2 including basic plumbing and electrician work. This price is per unit area of internal floor space and so a 5x4m single floor extension will have a total floor area of 20m 2 and a double storey will have 40m 2. There are basic costs that don't increase too much with size and hence the cost per square metre will decrease as the floor area increases. The price for a home extension depends on several factors. 1  Where you are in the country. 2  How busy the appropriate trades are.
Most builders can give you an idea of what your extension will cost per square foot or metre. For example, a basic single storey extension would typically cost around £1,000 per square metre but it could be up to £1,600 or more for a premium two storey extension. So a 3 x 5 metre extension would cost £15,000 and up to £50,000 for a two storey, more premium extension.
House Extension Costs Calculator. The current uncertainty in the housing market has caused an upsurge in the number of house extensions being built. Adding a bedroom to a house is an almost certain way of increasing the value of a property beyond the cost of having the work done. Whatprice provide a useful cost calculator (below), or better still why not use our FREE quotation service to get an accurate cost for building an extension. With the extension cost calculator you can get a quick, free, rough estimate of at least some of the costs involved in building extra room(s) for your house.
The price per square metre also depends on the size of the property. There are basic costs that don't increase too much with size and hence the cost per square metre will decrease as the floor area increases. The price for a home extension depends on several factors. 1  Where you are in the country. 2  How busy the appropriate trades are.
The best way to find out the cost of building an extension in your your area is to Post an Enquiry for home extension costs. You will get up to four house extension prices to compare and you are under no obligation whatsoever to accept any of them. Finding out the cost of building an extension is a good starting point as you will also get loads of advice on different extension designs and extension ideas. A large proportion of the cost of an extension goes into the groundwork’s and foundations and then on the roof. To add the required courses of blocks and bricks for the second storey and then fit them out isn't such a huge increase in the cost.
This calculator is to assist you in estimating the approximate cost of building a home extension in Ireland. In order to use this home extension price calculator for your extension project-you have to know the floor area of your planned house extension and also the floor area of associated house renovation works. Press the “Calculate” button to estimate your house extension cost: House extension cost calculator only valid for extensions from 12 square metres upwards. Please note that the above extension cost is indicative and your budget should not be relied upon, as price will vary significantly for each individual project.