In molecular biology, DNA ligase is a specific type of enzyme, a ligase, (EC 6.5.1.1) that facilitates the joining of DNA strands together by catalyzing the formation of a phosphodiester bond. The mechanism of DNA ligase is to form two covalent phosphodiester bonds between 3' hydroxyl ends of one nucleotide, (acceptor) with the 5' phosphate end of another (donor).
DNA ligase is an enzyme that has a very critical role in the process of DNA replication and DNA repair. There are two different things going on when DNA is replicated. Let's revisit this process very briefly. DNA ligase is similar to the construction crew that builds the bridges. Through the process of DNA replication, many fragments are produced. DNA ligase fills the spaces between the different fragments to bridge together the gaps in DNA. It accomplishes this by creating phosphodiester bonds between the 3' end of one nucleotide and the 5' end of the next nucleotide
DNA ligase adds on nucleotides in the usual 5' to 3' direction along the DNA strand. In addition to bridging gaps during the process of DNA replication, DNA ligase also works to do the same thing during DNA repair. When DNA is repaired, a portion of the DNA where the error or damage occurred is removed. New DNA is synthesized that is not damaged and contains the correct DNA sequence. DNA ligase is similar to the construction crew that builds the bridges. Through the process of DNA replication, many fragments are produced. DNA ligase fills the spaces between the different fragments to bridge together the gaps in DNA. It accomplishes this by creating phosphodiester bonds between the 3' end of one nucleotide and the 5' end of the next nucleotid
Report Abuse. DNA helicase-unwinds the DNA DNA polymerase-makes a copy of the DNA in the 5' to 3' direction-on the leading strand DNA ligase-binds okazaki fragments-on the lagging strand. Source(s): My fantastic Biology teacher who made us buy an expensive Biology book that we didn't even use. Anne · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Ligase here means the reconnection or more specifically the re-splicing together of Dna 'fragments'. Dna ligase's role in Dna replication is to reconnect the Okazaki fragments … that are created by the pattern of replication that takes place upon the COMPLEMENTARY 5'-3' strand of DNA. DNA helicase unzip, or separate, a strand of DNA at positions  called origins. This means that the hydrogen bonds between  complementary base pairs are removed (DNA is dou … ble stranded!).  When they separate double-stranded DNA into single strands, it  allows each strand to be copied (replication).
Ligase here means the reconnection or more specifically the re-splicing together of Dna 'fragments'. Dna ligase's role in Dna replication is to reconnect the Okazaki fragments that are created by the pattern of replication that takes place upon the COMPLEMENTARY 5'-3' strand of DNA. This happens because DNA polymerases can only read the DNA template from the 5' to the 3' end and add free nucleotides in this direction. DNA ligase is responsible for joining together fragments of DNA. In DNA replication, after the primers are replaced by DNA Polymerase I, DNA ligase assists in the formation ph … osphodiester bonds between the fragments. This is essential for creating one continuous strand
DNA ligase, an enzyme that can repair breaks in a strand of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) by synthesizing a bond between adjoining nucleotides. Under some circumstances the enzyme can join together loose ends of DNA strands, and in some cases it can repair breaks in ribonucleic acid (RNA). It serves as a catalyst. a collection of cloned DNA molecules from a genome. DNA ligase. an enzyme that seals nicks in the DNA helix, joins Okazaki fragments together during DNA replication and is essential in recombinant DNA technology for DNA cloning.
DNA ligase is responsible for joining together fragments of DNA. In DNA replication, after the primers are replaced by DNA Polymerase I, DNA ligase assists in the formation ph … osphodiester bonds between the fragments. This is essential for creating one continuous strand. DNA helicase unzip, or separate, a strand of DNA at positions  called origins. This means that the hydrogen bonds between  complementary base pairs are removed (DNA is dou … ble stranded!).  When they separate double-stranded DNA into single strands, it  allows each strand to be copied (replication).