Overview [edit | edit source]. The Narcotic is an item in ARK: Survival Evolved. It can be used to keep dinosaurs unconscious during Taming. Upon consumption, Narcotics increase the Torpor of a survivor or creature by 40, which is equal to the amount of torpor given by the 5 narcoberries required to make it. Usage [edit | edit source]. Narcotics are primarily used in the Taming process to keep dinosaurs unconscious. This is done by putting the Narcotic in the creatures inventory, selecting it, and pressing the Remote Use button. The creature's torpidity will then rise by a total of 40 over the next few seconds
1 punch with fists in order to drop the dinosaur unconcious. 2  feed the dinosaur berries/meat depending on its diet. 3  feed it narcoberries in order to keep it unoncious (need to remote use-the dinosaur won't eat them by itself). 4  wait until you capture. Lowlevel with no slingshot. 1  punch with fists in order to drop the dinosaur unconcious. 2  feed the dinosaur berries/meat depending on its diet. 3  feed it narcoberries in order to keep it unoncious (need to remote use-the dinosaur won't eat them by itself).
Dinosaur Taming Weapons. The first thing that is important in order to tame your first dinosaur is weapons. In order to tame a dinosaur you first need to knock it unconscious. There are a few ways to render a dinosaur unconscious, the first being with your fists. Food for Taming Dinosaurs. While the dinosaur is passed out, you will have to feed it the right type of food. If you are trying to tame is a herbivore, the best type of food to give is a mejoberry. This will increase the taming bar the most per unit of food.
Dinosaur Taming Tips for ARK Survival Evolved. Now that you know everything about how to tame a dinosaur, there are a few more pointers before you actually tame the dinosaur. First things first is have enough time. Taming a dinosaur can take anywhere from an hour, all the up to six in my experience. Food for Taming Dinosaurs. While the dinosaur is passed out, you will have to feed it the right type of food. If you are trying to tame is a herbivore, the best type of food to give is a mejoberry. This will increase the taming bar the most per unit of food.
How to tame a dinosaur Edit. Lowlevel with no slingshot. 1  punch with fists in order to drop the dinosaur unconcious. 2  feed the dinosaur berries/meat depending on its diet. 3  feed it narcoberries in order to keep it unoncious (need to remote use-the dinosaur won't eat them by itself). 4  wait until you capture. Lowlevel with no slingshot. 1  punch with fists in order to drop the dinosaur unconcious. 2  feed the dinosaur berries/meat depending on its diet. 3  feed it narcoberries in order to keep it unoncious (need to remote use-the dinosaur won't eat them by itself)
Narcotics = 24 Topor). REMEMBER!!! Keep your dino unconscious by using Narco berries/Narcotics by dragging them into the dinos inventory, highlight the icon and force feed them to your dino with the “use remote item” tab. Keeping your dino sleeping is key to taming your dino. Use Narco berries/Narcotics increases an unconscious dino’s Topor. (Topor: how long the dino remains unconscious) The higher the Topor the longer it will stay unconscious and the better chance you will have at
Follow Me On Twitter: https://twitter.com/xIVERTiiGOIx. a short video on how to train your very own dinosaur in ARK. This is my first ARK video and will not be my last, i plan on also starting a new series in the game. What is ARK: Survival Evolved? 