Butter is a product made from the solid components in milk (fat and protein). Although most often made from cow’s milk, butter can be made out of milk from sheep, goats, buffalo, or other mammals. Butter usually consists of approximately 80 percent fat, 15 percent water, and five percent protein. Today, commercial cultured butter is made from cream that has been pasteurized and then re-inoculated with a specific bacteria strain to produce fermentation. Ghee – Ghee, or clarified butter, is produced by heating butter until the water evaporates off and the proteins separate from the fat.
In addition to her first Butter Cow, Pratt also crafted Superman of Superman Returns (Norwalk, Iowa, native Brandon Routh, who starred as the Man of Steel) and Mr. State Fair. Bill Riley (in honor of his 60th Fair). Much of the butter is recycled and reused for up to 10 years. In addition to the Butter Cow, a companion sculpture also graces the Agriculture Building coolers. During the 2015 Fair, a celebration of the 80th anniversary of beloved family board game, Monopoly, was on display.
Butter is produced by agitating cream, which damages these membranes and allows the milk fats to conjoin, separating from the other parts of the cream. Variations in the production method will create butters with different consistencies, mostly due to the butterfat composition in the finished product. Ghee is clarified butter that has been heated to around 120 °C (250 °F) after the water evaporated, turning the milk solids brown. This process flavors the ghee, and also produces antioxidants that help protect it from rancidity. Because of this, ghee can keep for six to eight months under normal conditions.
Salt, flavorings and preservatives are sometimes added to butter. Rendering butter produces clarified butter or ghee, which is almost entirely butterfat. Butter is a water-in-oil emulsion resulting from an inversion of the cream, an oil-in-water emulsion; the milk proteins are the emulsifiers. Butter remains a solid when refrigerated, but softens to a spreadable consistency at room temperature, and melts to a thin liquid consistency at 32–35 °C (90–95 °F). Ghee is clarified butter that has been heated to around 120 °C (250 °F) after the water evaporated, turning the milk solids brown. This process flavors the ghee, and also produces antioxidants that help protect it from rancidity. Because of this, ghee can keep for six to eight months under normal conditions.
In 1911 J.K. Daniels sculpted the Fair's first butter cow and was succeeded by J.E. Wallace of Florida. In 1957 Earl Frank Dutt of Illinois took over the sculpting duties. Norma “Duffy” Lyon of Toledo, Iowa, began sculpting in 1960, becoming the fourth person and first woman to sculpt the Fair's butter beauties. Much of the butter is recycled and reused for up to 10 years. In addition to the Butter Cow, a companion sculpture also graces the Agriculture Building coolers. During the 2015 Fair, a celebration of the 80th anniversary of beloved family board game, Monopoly, was on display.
The Butter Cow starts with a wood, metal, wire and steel mesh frame and about 600 lbs. of low moisture, pure cream Iowa butter. Once inside the 40-degree cooler, layers of butter are applied until a life-size butter cow emerges-measuring about 5-1/2-ft high and 8-ft long. Much of the butter is recycled and reused for up to 10 years. In addition to the Butter Cow, a companion sculpture also graces the Agriculture Building coolers. During the 2015 Fair, a celebration of the 80th anniversary of beloved family board game, Monopoly, was on display.
Making butter is pretty straightforward. Milk a cow, separate the cream, agitate it, and you’re done. After the apocalypse*, obtaining enough milk will be the biggest hurdle in the process, especially if you’re looking to milk a wild cow for the first time.
Butter is a solid dairy product made by churning fresh or fermented cream or milk, to separate the butterfat from the buttermilk. It is generally used as a spread on plain or toasted bread products and a condiment on cooked vegetables, as well as in cooking, such as baking, sauce making, and pan frying. Ghee is clarified butter that has been heated to around 120 °C (250 °F) after the water evaporated, turning the milk solids brown. This process flavors the ghee, and also produces antioxidants that help protect it from rancidity. Because of this, ghee can keep for six to eight months under normal conditions.
It’s impossible to precisely define butter when the word is applied to substances as diverse as cashew butter, pumpkin butter, and shea butter. But it seems fair to say that there are four general categories of butter. The first is actual butter, the golden, creamy semisolid made of fat particles from cow’s milk. The second is nut butter, a smooth paste of tree nuts or seeds, best known as a sandwich filling.