Unfortunately there are diseases of the pancreas that can cause problems, as well as lead to an enlarged pancreas. These diseases include, tumors, diabetes mellitus, as well as acute and chronic pancreatitis. There may also be a pancreas enzyme deficiency. Diabetes mellitus is one common problem with the pancreas.
Acute pancreatitis is another condition that can cause an enlarged pancreas. There are several things that can cause this condition, including trauma, gallbladder disease, alcohol, high concentration of fat in the blood, and genetics.
But other causes of an enlarged pancreas may include the following: 1  Pancreatitis occurs when digestive enzymes become active inside the pancreas, attacking and damaging its tissues. 2  This can cause an enlarged pancreas. 3  Acute pancreatitis is inflammation that occurs suddenly in the pancreas.
1 Gall stone: The most common cause for enlarged pancreatic duct is an obstruction in the duct caused due to a stone, especially the gall stone. 2  The tiny gall stone gets lodged into the ampulla of vater, and blocks the flow of pancreatic juice and bile into the duodenum.
Causes. Although an enlarged pancreas can mean nothing, pancreatitis is the most common cause for the pancreas being enlarged; pancreatitis can be caused by food and alcohol or by gallstones. Pancreatic cancer can also cause the pancreas to be enlarged as cancer cells grow inside the pancreas.
Enlarged Pancreas: Causes, Symptoms, and Treatments An enlarged pancreas can occur for many reasons. The pancreas is a gland that sits behind your stomach in the upper abdomen and helps with digestion. It produces enzymes that are secreted into the small intestine, digesting protein, fat, and carbohydrates.
An integral part of the digestive system, the pancreas produces enzymes for digestion and insulin for glucose, or sugar, breakdown, according to Jackson Siegelbaum Gastroenterology in Camp Hill, Pennsylvania. Diseases of the pancreas can destroy this organ and are frequently the cause for an enlarged pancreas.
1 Pancreatitis occurs when digestive enzymes become active inside the pancreas, attacking and damaging its tissues. 2  This can cause an enlarged pancreas. 3  Acute pancreatitis is inflammation that occurs suddenly in the pancreas. 4  It can be very serious, even life-threatening.