All the color in beer comes from the malted barley. A lightly-roasted malt will produce a very pale beer. Deeply roasted malts produce dark or black beers. So, take lightly roasted malt and make a beer from it. Use an ale yeast, and the result will be a pale ale, the classic English pub beer, or a bitter or golden ale. Use a lager yeast, and the result will be a style such as pilsner. Use a malt with more of a golden roast, and the ale variety will be an amber ale or a Scottish ale; if a lager, perhaps it will be a Maerzen, märzen a festbier or An oktoberfest—beer all beer styles with a slighter sweeter. character
Malted grain is used to make beer; whisky; malted shakes; malt vinegar; confections such as Maltesers and Whoppers; flavored drinks such as Horlicks, Ovaltine and Milo; and some baked goods, such as malt loaf, bagels and rich tea biscuits. Malted grain that has been ground into a coarse meal is known as sweet meal. Malting is the process of converting barley or other cereal grains into malt, for use in brewing, distilling, or in foods and takes place in a maltings, sometimes called a malthouse, or a malting floor. The cereal is spread out on the malting floor in a layer of 8 to 12 cm (3 to 5 inch) depth.
Malt extract production [edit]. Malt extract is frequently used in the brewing of beer. Its production begins by germinating barley grain in a process known as malting, immersing barley in water to encourage the grain to sprout, then drying the barley to halt the progress when the sprouting begins. Malting is the process of converting barley or other cereal grains into malt, for use in brewing, distilling, or in foods and takes place in a maltings, sometimes called a malthouse, or a malting floor. The cereal is spread out on the malting floor in a layer of 8 to 12 cm (3 to 5 inch) depth.
Malt extract is a product most commonly known for its use in brewing beer. It is available in both a liquid form for the purist, and a dry form for the practical. Both types are produced by first simulating the germination of the barley grain with a process called malting. 
Beer is Nature's Gift. Beer is an alcoholic drink brewed mainly from malted barley, hops, yeast and water although other sources of fermentable carbohydrate (eg. maize, wheat, rice) and other natural ingredients may be added to create different styles and flavours.
Malt – Malted cereal grains are the meat and potatoes of beer. They provide the sugars that are fermented by the yeast to create alcohol and CO 2. They are the primary source of beer color and contribute significantly to flavor and mouthfeel. The most common of the malted grains is barley malt. Others include wheat, rye, and oats. In addition to the malted grains, some unmalted cereal grains are used in brewing including corn, rice, wheat, rye, oats, and sorghum. Malting is a process of controlled sprouting and kilning of the grains. But not all malt sugars are fermentable, some are left behind. Thus any sweetness perceived in beer is the product of the malt. It is also helpful to remember that malt is grain. Think of other products that are made with grain, like bread, crackers, pasta, or polenta.
A bottle of German non-alcoholic malt beer (Malzbier). Malt beer is a sweet, low-alcohol beer (0%–2.5% ABV) that is brewed like regular beer but with low or minimal fermentation. After soft drinks, malt beer is one of the most popular beverages sold in Iceland. The two main brands are Egils Maltextrakt (1.2% ABV) and Viking Víking (maltoel.maltöl0 9). %, abv additionally a seasonal hvitoel hvítöl is Available in (the.christmasmonth 2). 2 % abv
Malt beer is considered to be nutritious and is sometimes given to nursing mothers. Malt beer is sometimes called malta or wheat soda, but that term is properly reserved for the non-alcoholic but similarly tasting soft drink. Several brands popularly referred to as Malzbier in Germany, Austria and Switzerland are actually types of Malta. After soft drinks, malt beer is one of the most popular beverages sold in Iceland. The two main brands are Egils Maltextrakt (1.2% ABV) and Viking Víking (maltoel.maltöl0 9). %, abv additionally a seasonal hvitoel hvítöl is Available in (the.christmasmonth 2). 2 % abv