In a triple bypass heart surgery, three arteries are affected while the quadruple bypass heart surgery deals with four blocked arteries. The blood that flows from the coronary arteries through the heart is hindered by plaque or fatty deposits. The blockage produces muscle pains and eventually leads to a heart attack. A single coronary artery blocked or damaged by a heart attack will undergo coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Then it follows that if there are two arteries affected bypass will be double, if three arteries, triple bypass and for four arteries, quadruple bypass surgery.
The surgeon removes a healthy blood vessel-often from the leg-and attaches (grafts) it to the narrowed or blocked artery. The new blood vessel bypasses the diseased artery to increase blood flow to the heart. You may need just one bypass graft, or you may need more. 1 How long a bypass lasts depends on how long the blood vessel grafts stay open. 2  The risk of needing another operation gets higher each year after your surgery. 3  After 5 years, about 2 out of 100 people need another surgery. 4  After 10 years, 7
My dad is about to have a triple bypass in about a week. He would like to know how long the recovery time would be and how soon can he get back to work. This is an elective surgery and not an emergency and he is fairly healthy. He is 47 yo and his doctor says he has a strong heart and has no trouble pumping blood. As for waiting for the surgery. Recovery time is a lot longer for a heart attack. That is IF there is a recovery. In the USA I haven't heard of anyone being fired for being off work for a disability. It is against Federal law to fire someone for a disability.Just make sure the paper work is done. FYI-Open heart surgery is really common today
A. A. The first phase of heart surgery recovery can last from six to eight weeks. Upon discharge from the hospital or health care facility, the patient -- and often the caregiver -- will be given a set of instructions on post-surgery care. 
As a coronary artery bypass graft surgery patient, you have just undergone major surgery. Even though specific problems in your heart have been addressed, your body has been through a lot, and you will need time to recover and regain your strength. Everyone’s recovery is unique. Recovery at Home. After coronary bypass surgery, a typical recovery at home is six weeks, though recovery can take anywhere from four to twelve weeks. When you arrive at home, you and your caregiver—a family member, friend, or home health aide you have identified before the surgery-will:
In this article you will learn about triple bypass surgery and how recovery is important to the healing process. slide 1 of 5. Triple bypass surgery is performed when there is a blockage in more than one artery or one has coronary artery disease. The blockage impedes blood flow that can be life threatening by causing one to have a heart attack or stroke. The surgery is performed to create new ways for the blood to flow to correct the blocked artery. In this article you will learn about triple bypass surgery and recovery and the importance of both.
My dad is about to have a triple bypass in about a week. He would like to know how long the recovery time would be and how soon can he get back to work. This is an elective surgery and not an emergency and he is fairly healthy. He is 47 yo and his doctor says he has a strong heart and has no... As for waiting for the surgery. Recovery time is a lot longer for a heart attack. That is IF there is a recovery. In the USA I haven't heard of anyone being fired for being off work for a disability. It is against Federal law to fire someone for a disability.Just make sure the paper work is done. FYI-Open heart surgery is really common today
During a coronary artery bypass, the diseased sections of your coronary arteries are bypassed with healthy artery or vein grafts to increase blood flow to the heart muscle tissue. This procedure is also called coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Bypass typically requires open-chest surgery. 1 How long a bypass lasts depends on how long the blood vessel grafts stay open. 2  The risk of needing another operation gets higher each year after your surgery. 3  After 5 years, about 2 out of 100 people need another surgery. 4  After 10 years, 7