Within a grow room, where control of all plant growth factors – light, temperature, CO2, water and nutrition, is possible, the objective is to provide a temperature range that will maximise plant growth, rather than restrict it. Temperature and Humidity The interaction of temperature and humidity in the grow room is fairly simple – the warmer the temperature, the more water is lost from the plants. This water from plant transpiration rapidly increases the humidity in the air surrounding the crop to fairly high levels.
1 Temperature influence on growth – Seeds of cool season crops germinate at 40°F to 80°F. Warm season crop seeds germinate at 50°F to 90°F. 2  In the spring, cool soil temperatures are a limiting factor for plant growth. 3  In mid-summer, hot soil temperatures may prohibit seed germination. Temperature affects the growth and productivity of plants, depending on whether the plant is a warm season or cool season crop. 1  Photosynthesis – Within limits, rates of photosynthesis and respiration both rise with increasing temperatures.
Thus with a higher level of CO2 in the air plants can grow faster with a higher temperature. Plants transpire water vapor to keep an even temperature. There are tiny holes on the underside of plant leaves, called somata, which are the openings through which the plant absorbs CO2. With higher level of CO2 concentration in the air the somata do not have to be open as wide.
As temperature increases, the water holding capacity of that air increases sharply. The amount of water does not change, just the ability of that air to hold water. Because warmer air can hold more water, its relative humidity is less than the same air sample at a lower temperature, or it is ‘drier air’. 
Figure 3. For the tomato plant, rates of photosynthesis and respiration both increase with increasing temperatures. As the temperature approaches 96°F, the rate of photosynthesis levels off, while the rate of respiration continues to rise. Figure 4. Simple equation for respiration. In photosynthesis, the plant uses water and nutrients from the soil, and carbon dioxide from the air with the sun’s energy to create photosynthates. Oxygen is releases as a byproduct. Figure 2.
More gas can be dissolved in cold water than in warm water. Animals, such as salmon, that require a high level of dissolved oxygen will only thrive in cold water. Increased water temperature can also cause an increase in the photosynthetic rate of aquatic plants and algae. This can lead to increased plant growth and algal blooms, which can be harmful to the local ecosystem. If the water temperature changes by even a few degrees, it could indicate a source of unnatural warming of the water or thermal pollution. Thermal pollution caused by human activities is one factor that can affect water temperature.
Plants grow faster at a higher temperature providing they have adequate levels of CO2, water, sunlight and plant nutrients. The C4 plants have a great response rate for a higher temperature than does the C3 plants. Plants transpire water vapor to keep an even temperature. There are tiny holes on the underside of plant leaves, called somata, which are the openings through which the plant absorbs CO2. With higher level of CO2 concentration in the air the somata do not have to be open as wide.
Conductivity increases approximately 2-3% per 1°C increase in temperature, though in pure water it will increase approximately 5% per 1°C 11. This variation is why many professionals use a standardized comparison of conductivity, known as specific conductance, that is temperature corrected to 25°C 10. However, that does not mean that temperature changes will make a solution more acidic or basic. Because the ratio of hydrogen and hydroxyl ions remains the same, the acidity of water does not change with temperature 28. Instead, the entire pH range shifts, so that neutral water will have a value other than 7.
The humidity level is like a pressure cap on the plant, keeping the moisture in the plant, allowing it to have proper transpiration rates of the fluids. Ideal humidity levels in a grow room range between 50% to 70% in vegetative growth, and 50% to 60% for flowering plants. When humidity levels drop too low, the plants transpire at a rate much quicker than that of nutrient uptake. Temperature and Humidity The interaction of temperature and humidity in the grow room is fairly simple – the warmer the temperature, the more water is lost from the plants. This water from plant transpiration rapidly increases the humidity in the air surrounding the crop to fairly high levels.
On Plant Growth. The ideal temperature range for plant growth without CO2 supplementation is 70-75 degrees. Temperature is probably the factor that causes the most problems in an indoor garden. When the temperature in a garden climbs higher than 85 degrees, plant growth damage can happen quickly. 