The name Keegan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Keegan is: A thinker; fiery. Form of Hugh. American Meaning: The name Keegan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Keegan is: A thinker; fiery. Form of Hugh. Celtic Meaning: The name Keegan is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Keegan is: Son of Egan. Gaelic Meaning: The name Keegan is a Gaelic
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Keegan is a surname of Irish origin and derives from Mac Aodhagain aodhagáin meaning (son or) descendant Of (aodhagan aodhagán a diminutive Of the Irish). Name aodh in the late 20th and early 21st centuries keegan is more commonly being used as a. first name From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Keegan is a surname of Irish origin and derives from Mac Aodhagain aodhagáin meaning (son or) descendant Of (aodhagan aodhagán a diminutive Of the Irish). name aodh
Keegan is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kee-gan. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 238 in baby name popularity for boys with 1547 occurrences. It ranked 1760 in popular baby names for girls with 117 occurrences. View the Keegan Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Keegan has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Keegan to other names. Keegan is a variant spelling of Keagan. Variants of the name Keegan include Kegan
Keegan's language of origin is Celtic. It is predominantly used in the English and Irish languages. It is derived from the word mac which means 'son'. The first name is from Anglicized form of the Gaelic surname Mac Aodhagain, aodhagáin which ' means descendant Of'. aodhagan aodhagán
Keegan /kee-gan/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KEE-gan. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Keegan is small flame; ardent . Historian John Keegan. Kreatif forms: Kaigan, Keigan, Kigan. Keegan is a rare given name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#3388 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census).
The name Keegan is a baby boy name. The name Keegan comes from the Celtic origin. In Celtic The meaning of the name Keegan is: Son of Egan. 
Variants of Keegan include Kaegan, Kagan (English and Irish), Kagen (English), Keagan (English and Irish), Keagen, Keaghan, Keegen, Keeghan, Keigan, and Kiegan. Keegan is a popular baby boy name. The name's popularity has been growing since the 1970s; before that, it was of only irregular use. Its usage peaked modestly in 2008 with 0.077% of baby boys being given the name Keegan. It was #222 in rank then. It is predominantly used in the English and Irish languages. It is derived from the word mac which means 'son'. The first name is from Anglicized form of the Gaelic surname Mac Aodhagain, aodhagáin which ' means descendant Of'. aodhagan aodhagán