Pregnancy Nutrition: Weight Change and Calories. Your body will gain weight during your pregnancy ! As you watch your weight begin to increase, take it as proof that your body is nurturing your growing baby. By the time you are ready to give birth, your total blood volume will have increased by as much as 60% . Your breasts will have filled with milk. The daily requirement of calcium is around 1000 milligrams during pregnancy. Calcium helps your body regulate fluids, and it helps build your baby’s bones and tooth buds. Examples of daily sources of calcium: 3-4 servings of dairy. 1  milk (1 serving = 1 cup). 2  eggs (1 serving = 1 large egg).
It's important to get enough protein throughout your pregnancy, but especially during the second and third trimesters, when your baby is growing the fastest and your breasts and organs are getting bigger to accommodate the needs of your growing baby. Calcium in your pregnancy diet. Learn why you need calcium when you're pregnant, how much calcium you need in your pregnancy diet, food sources, and when you n... Pregnancy nutrients you need to help your baby grow.
Protein is required for the physical growth and cellular development of your baby. It is also required for the placenta, amniotic tissues, and maternal tissues. Further, a woman's blood volume increases by 50% during pregnancy, and protein is needed to produce new blood cells and circulating proteins. 
Overview. Your body goes through a great deal of hormonal, physiological, and physical changes during pregnancy. The way you nourish your body during this process will affect your own health, as well as the health of your baby. During pregnancy you gain about 15 to 20 pounds in water alone. You can discuss with your provider the appropriate amount of weight for you to gain during your pregnancy. The chart below provides some general recommendations.
Protein requirements in pregnancy rise to 1.1 g/kg/day (71 g), amounting to more than a 50% increase in protein intake to allow for fetal growth and milk production. The source of protein may be as important as the quantity, however. 
Do not neglect your baby’s health by neglecting your own! Myth: Now that you are pregnant, you should be eating for two. Fact: It is true that your nutrient needs increase, but energy requirements only increase by about 300 calories per day for the second and third trimester of pregnancy. The daily requirement of calcium is around 1000 milligrams during pregnancy. Calcium helps your body regulate fluids, and it helps build your baby’s bones and tooth buds. Examples of daily sources of calcium: 3-4 servings of dairy. 1  milk (1 serving = 1 cup). 2  eggs (1 serving = 1 large egg).
Two approaches have been used to estimate energy requirements during pregnancy. The factorial approach is a summation of the energy equivalents of tissue protein and fat accretion and the energy need for metabolism of the added tissue. 
You need protein for your muscles, bones, and the rest of your body. Exactly how much you need changes with age: 1  Babies need about 10 grams a day. 2  School-age kids need 19-34 grams a day. 3  Teenage boys need up to 52 grams a day. 4  Teenage girls need 46 grams a day. 5  Adult men need about 56 grams a day. 
A woman gains more weight than just the weight of the baby. In order to produce a healthy baby, your body requires extra fluids-extra water, blood, and amniotic fluid. During pregnancy you gain about 15 to 20 pounds in water alone. You can discuss with your provider the appropriate amount of weight for you to gain during your pregnancy. The chart below provides some general recommendations.
Individualized Needs. Your individualized protein needs during pregnancy are based on your pre-pregnancy body weight. The Institute of Medicine encourages pregnant women to consume at least 1.1 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight, or about 0.5 gram of protein per pound of body weight each day. Protein needs for pregnant women are significantly higher than for non-pregnant women, especially during the second and third trimesters, due to the increased protein demands of a rapidly growing fetus. Eating a variety of protein-rich foods throughout the day will help you meet these increased needs.