The classification levels become more specific towards the bottom. Many organisms belong to the same kingdom, fewer belong to the same phylum, and so on, with species being the most specific classification. A species is one group of genetically distinct, interbreeding organisms. Taxonomy is the science of classifying organisms. The system currently used by taxonomists is called the Linnaean taxonomic system, in honor of Swedish biologist Carolus Linnaeus (1707 — 1778). The Linnaean system breaks down organisms into seven major divisions, called taxa (singular: taxon).
All humans, including those that edit at wiki.Answers.com belong to the species Homo sapiens, of the family Hominidae, of the class Mammalia, of the phylum Chordata. 3 people found this useful. 
Mammals (class Mammalia /məˈmeɪli.ə/ from Latin mamma breast) are any members of a clade of endothermic amniotes distinguished from reptiles and birds by the possession of hair, three middle ear bones, mammary glands, and a neocortex (a region of the brain). The marsupials constitute the crown group of the Metatheria, and include all living metatherians as well as many extinct ones; the placentals are the crown group of the Eutheria. Except for the five species of monotremes (egg-laying mammals), all modern mammals give birth to live young.
Their subphylum is Vertebrata, meaning that their backbones are segmented. Mammals, members of the class Mammalia of vertebrate animals that includes humans, are the most highly advanced organisms on Earth. They are warm-blooded, hairy, have four-chambered hearts, relatively large brains, and they suckle their young.
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals. Arthropod Phylum: All the jointed legged animals. All of these animals have an exoskeleton, meaning the skeleton is on the outside of the body.
The mammals include the largest animals on the planet, the rorquals and other large whales, as well as some of the most intelligent, such as elephants, some primates, including humans, and some of the cetaceans. The marsupials constitute the crown group of the Metatheria, and include all living metatherians as well as many extinct ones; the placentals are the crown group of the Eutheria. Except for the five species of monotremes (egg-laying mammals), all modern mammals give birth to live young.
Mammals have adapted to live in a variety of environments, including on land throughout the world, in the air, and in the sea. Mammals make up the largest animals both on land and in the sea. This class includes animals as diverse as the platypus, koala, wolf, cat, cow, pig, whale, dolphin, bat, and human. The phylum Chordata contains all animals that possess, at some point during their lives, a hollow nerve cord and a notochord, a flexible rod between the nerve cord and the digestive track.
Phylum. Immediately below kingdom is the phylum level of classification. At this level, animals are grouped together based on similarities in basic body plan or organization. For instance, species in the phylum Arthropoda have external skeletons as well as jointed bodies and limbs. Kingdom to Subphylum. The highest category in the traditional Linnaean system of classification is the kingdom. At this level, organisms are distinguished on the basis of cellular organization and methods of nutrition.
Kingdom: Animalia. Sharing with all other members of this group the need to feed on organic matter (unlike plants which can create energy using light and minerals). Phylum: Chordata (or vertebrata) …. Sharing with all other members of this group of animals, a backbone with a hollow nerve chord.
Taxonomy. Marine mammals are mammals that have adapted to life in the ocean. Marine mammals have all the characteristics of mammals, yet they are distinctive in their appearance and survival strategies. Learning to identify marine mammals is made easier by learning their scientific classification or taxonomy. 