Best Answer: Hello, If you want to go by public transportation then the metro is the way to go. You can buy a single use ticket for 1 euro, a one day ticket for 4 euros, a 3 day ticket for 11 euros or a 7 day ticket for 16 euros. There are only 2 metro lines and they connect most of the sites in Rome. The vatican is a little further out but is still only about 15 minutes past the pantheon. The cheapest way is to walk, followed by taking the metro. Since you are staying in Rome for 6 days, you might want to consider getting the romapass.
Getting Around Rome. The best way to get around Rome is on foot. And because many of the best attractions are clustered together in traffic-free zones, walking makes the most sense. However, some places, like Vatican City, are pretty far from the central historic district, necessitating the use of the metro or a taxi. Wear some comfortable shoes for climbing the Spanish Steps, entering the Colosseum and venturing to the Roman Forum. Metro. Traffic above ground is bad, so the subterranean metro is the quickest means of public transportation to get around. The metro in Rome runs two lines and you'll find stations scattered throughout the city marked by signs with a big red M on them
Otherwise, to just get around in Rome, taxis can be a good option if you’re traveling at night after the buses and Metro have stopped running or you’re unsure enough of your surroundings or your destination that you want someone to drop you at the door, but be sure you’re paying attention to the meter. In other words, even if you’re using the Metro quite a bit, you may need to supplement it with other forms of public transportation in Rome. Rome’s Metro lines only intersect at one point – Termini Station.
Transportation tickets in Rome. You can get single-use tickets that work on buses, trams, and the Metro, or you can get multi-day transportation passes. Each single-use ticket is good for 100 minutes, and transportation passes come in 24-hour, 3-day, or 7-day increments.
BY BUS IN ROME. The most convenient and economic way of getting around Rome is by far the Public Transit Bus service. Buses run 24 hrs. a day and cover the entire city. Bus tickets and subway metro tickets are interchangeable within the time validity of the ticket. RENTAL CARS. Renting a car in Rome is quite easy, it's the driving around that presents a problem! If you are in need of a car to move around the city or for other trips around the country with your family or friends and want to move freely without the hassle of public transit a rental car could be an alternative.
Some of Rome’s main sights are close to Metro stops (including the Colosseum), and the tickets for buses and trams also work on the Metro, so you can certainly use it for some trips. Unlike in some other cities, however, Rome’s Metro isn’t the best way to get around the city. You can get single-use tickets that work on buses, trams, and the Metro, or you can get multi-day transportation passes. Each single-use ticket is good for 100 minutes, and transportation passes come in 24-hour, 3-day, or 7-day increments.
The best way to get around Rome is on foot. And because many of the best attractions are clustered together in traffic-free zones, walking makes the most sense. Wear some comfortable shoes for climbing the Spanish Steps, entering the Colosseum and venturing to the Roman Forum. Metro. Traffic above ground is bad, so the subterranean metro is the quickest means of public transportation to get around. The metro in Rome runs two lines and you'll find stations scattered throughout the city marked by signs with a big red M on them
By Bike -- Other than walking, the best way to get through the medieval alleys and small piazzas of Rome is perched on the seat of a bicycle. Despite being hilly, the heart of ancient Rome is riddled with bicycle lanes to get you through the murderous traffic. The most convenient place to rent bikes is Bici & Baci, Via del Viminale 5 (www.bicibaci.com; [tel] 06-4828443), lying 2 blocks west of Stazione Termini, the main rail station.
For 1.50€ you can ride to most parts of Rome on buses or trams, although it can be slow going in all that traffic, and the buses are often very crowded. A ticket is valid for 100 minutes, and you can get on many buses and trams during that time by using the same ticket (as well as one run on the Metro). Despite being hilly, the heart of ancient Rome is riddled with bicycle lanes to get you through the murderous traffic. The most convenient place to rent bikes is Bici & Baci, Via del Viminale 5 (www.bicibaci.com; [tel] 06-4828443), lying 2 blocks west of Stazione Termini, the main rail station.