LOCATION: Most temperate, deciduous (leaf-shedding) forests are located in the eastern United States, Canada, Europe, China, Japan, and parts of Russia. Deciduous forests are broken up into five zones. The firstzone is the tree stratum zone. 
Definition of Deciduous Trees. More than likely, you are not too far from a deciduous tree right now. Deciduous trees are trees that drop their leaves for part of the year. They are found in temperate and tropical climates all over the world. Deciduous trees have broad flat leaves that catch a lot of light and require a great amount of water. In some cases, leaf loss coincides with winter-namely in temperate or polar climates when there is less sunlight for the process of photosynthesis. There are approximately 19 species of hickory trees found in China, India, the U.S., Mexico, and Canada. They are characterized by large compound leaves and the fruit they produce in the form of a large nut.
Great Lakes/St. Among Canada’s forest regions, the Great Lakes/St Lawrence area is second in size only to the boreal, covering southeastern Manitoba to the Gaspe Gaspé. Peninsula trees in this region are a mix of coniferous and, deciduous with species such as the red, pine eastern white, pine yellow birch and eastern. hemlock 
Boreal (taiga) Forest. Location: This is the northern most forest type and is found between 50 and 60 degrees N latitude. Boreal forests are found in Canada, northern Asia, Siberia and Scandinavia (Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland). About two-thirds of the world's boreal forests are found in Scandinavia. Climate: There are four distinct seasons in temperate deciduous forests and precipitation falls throughout the year, as rain in the spring, summer and fall and snow in the winter. Temperate deciduous forests receive 30-60 inches of rain per year. Soil: The soil in these forests is very fertile. Plants: The forest floor in temperate deciduous forests supports mosses, ferns and wildflowers and the understory supports a variety of shrubs and ferns. Maple, oak and birch trees are some examples of the deciduous trees that dominate these forests
In botany and horticulture, deciduous plants, including trees, shrubs and herbaceous perennials, are those that lose all of their leaves for part of the year. This process is called abscission. In some cases leaf loss coincides with winter — namely in temperate or polar climates. The converse of deciduous is evergreen, where foliage is shed on a different schedule from deciduous trees, therefore appearing to remain green year round. Plants that are intermediate may be called semi-deciduous; they lose old foliage as new growth begins.