Low water temperature is stressful to tropical fish. The best temperature range for tropical fish is generally 28°C to 30°C. Corals and anemones will also require specific water temperatures, some corals are more sensitive to temperature fluctuations than the actual fish. 
A heater may be used to maintain water temperature in your aquarium. Most tropical fish require a constant water temperature between 75° and 80° F. Goldfish and certain other cold water species are the exception to the rule. They can exist quite comfortably without a heater. 
It depends on the species, but in general tropical fish are most healthy in the range of 75-80°F (24-27°C). Cold water fish do better in temperatures well below that, some of them enjoy water well below 70°F, which is not suitable for any tropical fish. Ultimately the best temperature will depend on the species of fish in the aquarium.
For typical freshwater fish, the temp in my aquariums is between 70 and 78 F. There are others that require higher or lower temps, for instance blind cave fish can take 63-75 F, and Bettas as high as 70-85 F. Saltwater aquarium fish typically come from the tropics, so 75-80 F is best. Report Abuse. Tropical temperature range is considered to be 72-84º F/22-29º C Below this range for room temperature (coldwater) aquariums. Time light is left on would largely depend on the plants, if any, you're keeping with the fish. Generally, no more than 8 hours.
1 Make sure your aquarium is positioned where this can’t occur. 2  The wrong amount of water in the tank. 3  We suggest you have one inch of fish per one gallon of water. 4  For example, a 10-gallon tank should have only 10 fish that are one inch each. Excess waste, like excess food, gives off ammonia and nitrites. You should have one gallon of water per one inch of (mature) tropical fish. Have three gallons of water per one inch of goldfish. It is best to buy the largest aquarium you can afford.
Tropical fish are those that require heated water, generally in the range of 75-80°F (24-27°C). Because many homes are not kept in that temperature range day and night, these fish require a heated aquarium. Cold water fish do better in temperatures well below that, some of them enjoy water well below 70°F, which is not suitable for any tropical fish. Ultimately the best temperature will depend on the species of fish in the aquarium.
The best water temperature for your Betta fish is within a range. Bettas are tropical fish and so they like their water a little warmer-but not too warm. Consistency in water temperature is also important. The optimal range of water temperature for your Betta fish is 74 -78 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Heating. Tropical fish require a normal maintenance temperature between approx. 22-29 o C (72-84 o F), with many species being kept at a 'middle value' of 24-25 o C (75-77 o F). Maintaining a stable temperature (and more importantly avoiding rapid changes) is vital to avoid stressing fish. The temperature of a tropical aquarium can be maintained in a number of ways
Warmer temperatures would actually increase their metabolism and shorten their lifespan. For a tropical fish tank, maintaining a warm environmental temperature ranging between 75 to 80 °F (24 to 27 °C) enables the fish to thrive. Aquariums may be decorated with sand or gravel, live or plastic plants, driftwood, rocks, and a variety of commercially made plastic sculptures. Freshwater fish may be either coldwater or tropical species. Although freshwater aquariums can be set up as community tanks, coldwater and tropical fish are generally not mixed due to incompatibilities in temperature requirements. Coldwater aquariums house goldfish and other species that do not require a heating apparatu