foliated. adj. 1. (Architecture) architect ornamented with or made up of foliage or foils. 2. (Geological Science) (of rocks and minerals, esp schists) composed of thin easily separable layers. 3. (Botany) (esp of parts of animals or plants) resembling a leaf. 1. foliated-ornamented with foliage or foils; foliate tracery; a foliated capital. foliate. architecture-the discipline dealing with the principles of design and construction and ornamentation of fine buildings; architecture and eloquence are mixed arts whose end is sometimes beauty and sometimes use.
Foliated Metamorphic Rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks are formed within the Earth's interior under extremely high pressures that are unequal, occurring when the pressure is greater in one direction than in the others (directed pressure). 
Foliation is a geologic term that is used to describe the banded or layered appearance of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss display banding and re … grouping of its mineral constituents as a result of enormous pressures and heat. Non-foliated rocks do not have distinct layers or bands. These rocks, such as quartzite, marble, and soapstone, often are. more even in color than foliated rocks. If the mineral grains are. visible at all, they do not seem to line up in any particular direction.
Definition of FOLIATION. 1. a: the process of forming into a leaf b: the state of being in leaf c: vernation. 2. : the numbering of the leaves of a manuscript or early printed book. 3. a: ornamentation with foliage b: a decoration resembling a leaf. 4. : the enrichment of an opening by foils. 
There are two basic types of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, phyllite, schist, and slate have a layered or banded appearance that is produced by exposure to heat and directed pressure. Non-foliated metamorphic rocks such as hornfels, marble, quartzite, and novaculite do not have a layered or banded appearance. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common types of metamorphic rocks are shown on this page.
Gneiss, a foliated metamorphic rock. Foliation in geology refers to repetitive layering in metamorphic rocks. Each layer may be as thin as a sheet of paper, or over a meter in thickness. The word comes from the Latin folium, meaning leaf, and refers to the sheet-like planar structure. Alignment of tabular minerals in metamorphic rocks, igneous rocks and intrusive rocks may form a foliation. Typical examples of metamorphic rocks include porphyroblastic schists where large, oblate minerals form an alignment either due to growth or rotation in the groundmass.
Foliation is a geologic term that is used to describe the appearance of metamorphic rocks.   Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss display banding and regrouping of its … mineral constituents as a result of enormous pressures and heat. Non-foliated rocks do not have distinct layers or bands. These rocks, such as quartzite, marble, and soapstone, often are. more even in color than foliated rocks. If the mineral grains are. visible at all, they do not seem to line up in any particular direction.
Rockhound. Foliation is a geologic term that is used to describe the appearance of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss display banding and regrouping of its mineral constituents as a result of enormous pressures and heat. The banding forms perpendicularly to the direction of pressure. Non-foliated metamorphic rocks such as quartzite and marble do not display the banding or layering that are present in foliated rocks. This is because their parent rock was usually sedimentary and more pure in mineral composition than the parent rocks of foliated rocks.
Adj. 1. foliated-ornamented with foliage or foils; foliate tracery; a foliated capital. foliate. architecture-the discipline dealing with the principles of design and construction and ornamentation of fine buildings; architecture and eloquence are mixed arts whose end is sometimes beauty and sometimes use.