Matoaka was the beautiful and lively daughter of Powhatan, ruler of the land that the English named Virginia. Pocahontas was her childhood nickname, translated as little wanton, meaning she was playful and hard to control. When she was born, Powhatan sent her mother home to her own village, to raise Pocahontas. The Peace of Pocahontas began with the marriage of Pocahontas to John Rolfe. Their son Thomas was born around 1615. In 1616, the Virginia Company sent the Rolfe family on a promotional English tour, with several other Indians and colonists.
Totem Pole Maker. Pocahontas was born in 1595 in Werowocomoco (Eastern Virginia) to the powerful tribal leader Powhatan. She was one of as many as one hundred children. Pocahontas, however, was said to be Powhatan’s favorite. Powhatan was the chief of the Algonquian Indians in the Virginia area. Pocahontas’s real name was Matoaka. 
Pocahontas (1595 - 1617). Pocahontas was the daughter of Powhatan, the powerful chief of the Pamunkeys, a tribe that inhabited the area around the Chesapeake Bay later settled by the English. She was born around 1595 to one of Powhatan’s many wives. Her given name was Matoaka, but she has gone down in history by her nickname Pocahontas, which suggests she was a mischievous little child. Pocahontas first observed the English when they landed in Virginia in May of 1607. 
Pocahontas was born in 1595. Elizabeth I was queen of England at that time. Pocahontas met James I, who became king in 1603 after Elizabeth died. Pocahontas lived at the same time as the famous writer William Shakespeare. 
» See all Pocahontas Articles. Pocahontas summary: Pocahontas, born Matoaka, was the daughter of a Powhatan Indian chief and was born around the year 1595 in Werowocomoco, Virginia. When English colonists settled in Jamestown in 1607, Pocahontas befriended them. 
Pocahontas was a Powhatan Native American woman, born around 1595, known for her involvement with English colonial settlement at Jamestown, Virginia. In a well-known historical anecdote, she saved the life of Englishman John Smith, by placing her head upon his own at the moment of his execution. Rolfe and Pocahontas married on April 5, 1614, and lived for two years on Rolfe's farm. On January 30, 1615, Pocahontas gave birth to Thomas Rolfe. According to Ralph Hamor, the marriage created a period of peace between the colonists and Powhatan.
Born: c. 1595 Virginia Died: 1617 Gravesend, Kent, England. Native American princess. Pocahontas was the daughter of a Native American chief in Virginia at the time when the British came to settle in the area. Her marriage to an English settler brought eight years of peace between the Indians and the British. Pocahontas's real name was Matoaka. As a child, she was also called Pocahontas, meaning playful one, and the name stuck. Her father was Powhatan (c. 1550–1618), the chief of a group of tribes that bore his name and spoke the Native American Algonquian language.
Pocahontas was born in 1595 probably in Virginia because that where she met John Smith and the British. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Pocahontas (c. 1595 – March 21, 1617) was a Native American woman who married an Englishman, John Rolfe, and became a celebrity in London toward the end of her life.
Born 1595, Pocahontas, which means Little Wanton (Matoaka (or Matoika), Amonute, Rebecca Rolfe) was a member of the Powhatan (Virginia Algonquians) tribes. She married John … Rolfe on April 5th 1614 and gave birth to one son Thomas Rolfe, 1615. She died of Small Pox in Gravesend, England and was buried at St. George's Church March 21, 1617. Virginia Indian  notable for her association with the colonial settlement at  Jamestown, Virginia.