Sedimentary rocks can be categorized into three groups based on sediment type. Most sedimentary rocks are formed by the lithification of weathered rock debris that has been physically transported and deposited. Some types of clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of weathered rock material like gravel, sand, silt, and clay. Others can be constructed from the break up and deposition of shells, coral and other marine organisms by wave-action and ocean currents.
Sedimentary Rock Examples. Common clastic sedimentary rocks are listed on the table below. They are listed by grain size in decending order. Grain size is one factor in classifying sedimentary rocks .Clicking on the name of the rock will bring up a larger picture and a description of the rock type in a new window.
Such material, called detritus, consists of fragments of rocks and minerals. When the energy of the transporting current is not strong enough to carry these particles, the particles drop out in the process of sedimentation. This type of sedimentary deposition is referred to as clastic sedimentation. LIthification of sediment into sedimentary rocks takes place after the sediment has been deposited and buried. The processes by which the sediment becomes lithified into a hard sedimentary rock is called diagenesis and includes all physical, chemical and biological processes that act on the sediment.
Examples of this type of sedimentary rock include conglomerate and sandstone. Scientists sometimes call this general group of sedimentary rocks clastic. The remaining types of sedimentary rocks are created either from chemical precipitation and crystallization, or by the lithification of once living organic matter. Some types of clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of weathered rock material like gravel, sand, silt, and clay. Others can be constructed from the break up and deposition of shells, coral and other marine organisms by wave-action and ocean currents.
Shale is made from silt particles cemented together. It is similar to siltstone but with even finer grain size, The table below shows examples of common chemical sedimentary rocks. Clicking on the name of the rock will bring up a larger picture and a description of the rock type in a new window. Grain size is one factor in classifying sedimentary rocks .
Picture Gallery of the Most Common Rock Types. Breccia is a clastic sedimentary rock that is composed of large (over two millimeter diameter) angular fragments. The spaces between the large fragments can be filled with a matrix of smaller particles or a mineral cement which binds the rock together. Chemical sedimentary rocks, such as rock salt, iron ore, chert, flint, some dolomites, and some limestones, form when dissolved materials precipitate from solution. Organic sedimentary rocks such as coal, some dolomites, and some limestones, form from the accumulation of plant or animal debris. Photos and brief descriptions of some common sedimentary rock types are shown on this page. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock that forms mainly from plant debris
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
The three main types, or classes, of rock are sedimentary, metamorphic, and igneous and the differences among them have to do with how they are formed. Sedimentary. Sedimentary rocks are formed from particles of sand, shells, pebbles, and other fragments of material. Together, all these particles are called sediment. Gradually, the sediment accumulates in layers and over a long period of time hardens into rock. Examples of this rock type include gneiss and marble. Igneous. Igneous rocks are formed when magma (molten rock deep within the earth) cools and hardens. Sometimes the magma cools inside the earth, and other times it erupts onto the surface from volcanoes (in this case, it is called lava).
Sedimentary rocks are formed by the accumulation of sediments. There are three basic types of sedimentary rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks such as breccia, conglomerate, sandstone, siltstone, and shale are formed from mechanical weathering debris. Chemical sedimentary rocks, such as rock salt, iron ore, chert, flint, some dolomites, and some limestones, form when dissolved materials precipitate from solution. Organic sedimentary rocks such as coal, some dolomites, and some limestones, form from the accumulation of plant or animal debris. Photos and brief descriptions of some common sedimentary rock types are shown on this page. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock that forms mainly from plant