1 Washington's minimum salary for overtime-exempt workers is $250 per week. 2  The new federal rules raise the federal minimum. 3  It previously was as little as $155 per week, but now is $455 per week. The federal rules have, in some cases, changed who in Washington State can be considered exempt from overtime. Notable differences include: Minimum salary requirement: 1  Washington's minimum salary for overtime-exempt workers is $250 per week.
The new federal minimum salary of $455 per week will apply to most workers in Washington. Please remember that the minimum salary requirement for exempting a worker from overtime is only ONE FACTOR in determining whether a worker is exempt. The federal rules have, in some cases, changed who in Washington State can be considered exempt from overtime. Notable differences include: Minimum salary requirement: 1  Washington's minimum salary for overtime-exempt workers is $250 per week. 2  The new federal rules raise the federal minimum. 3  It previously was as little as $155 per week, but now is $455 per week
In addition, exempt employees must be paid on a genuine salary basis as opposed to hourly or other methods of payment. Almost all Oregon employers are subject to the fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). Employers subject to the FLSA are required to pay a minimum weekly salary of $455 a week or $23,660 annually. 
With few exceptions, to be exempt an employee must (a) be paid at least $23,600 per year ($455 per week), and (b) be paid on a salary basis, and also (c) perform exempt job duties. These requirements are outlined in the FLSA Regulations (promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor). Most employees must meet all three tests to be exempt. Salary level test. Employees who are paid less than $23,600 per year ($455 per week) are nonexempt.
Fact Sheet #17G: Salary Basis Requirement and the Part 541 Exemptions Under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). This fact sheet provides general information on the exemption from. minimum wage and overtime pay provided by Section 13(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act as defined by Regulations, 29 CFR Part 541. These salary requirements do not apply to outside sales employees, teachers, and employees practicing law or medicine. Exempt computer employees may be paid at least $455 on a salary basis or on an hourly basis at a rate not less than $27.63 an hour.
Washington’s minimum salary for overtime-exempt workers is $250/wk vs. the federal minimum of $455/wk. Also, state rules have a less stringent three-part executive short test. Employees who perform “administrative” duties. 1 Comparison: Washington State and federal overtime rules Worker type (as defined by federal rules) Federal requirements that must be met to be exempt from overtime pay Differences between state and federal rules Employees who perform “execu
To qualify for exemption, employees generally must be paid at not less than $455 per week on a salary basis. These salary requirements do not apply to outside sales employees, teachers, and employees practicing law or medicine. Exempt computer employees may be paid at least $455 on a salary basis or on an hourly basis at a rate not less than $27.63 an hour.
Make sure to check both state and federal requirements. $100,000-per-year salary cap: Under the new federal rules, white-collar positions paying more than $100,000 per year are exempt from overtime pay if the worker has performed at least one duty in an executive, administrative, or professional function job. The federal rules have, in some cases, changed who in Washington State can be considered exempt from overtime. Notable differences include: Minimum salary requirement: 1  Washington's minimum salary for overtime-exempt workers is $250 per week. 2  The new federal rules raise the federal minimum. 3  It previously was as little as $155 per week, but now is $455 per week
An example follows: Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00. The employee's gross wages for the week, including overtime, would be $550 (the $500 salary plus $50 in overtime pay). Wisconsin law allows this method of overtime compensation for salaried, non-exempt employees, but federal law may not.