2. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs throughout the body. Smooth muscle contractions are involuntary movements triggered by impulses that travel through the autonomic nervous system to the smooth muscle tissue. Cardiac muscle contracts the heart to pump blood. The smooth muscle tissue that forms organs like the stomach and bladder changes shape to facilitate bodily functions. Here are more details about the structure and function of each type of muscle tissue in the human body. 1.
1 Cardiac muscle occurs only in the heart, and consists of small cells that are striated and under involuntary control. 2  Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs, and consists of small elongated cells that are not striated and are under involuntary control. 
A year ago. The type of muscle found in the walls of hollow organs, such as the stomach, and. The type of muscle found in the walls of hollow organs, such as the stomach, and in the walls of blood vessels is: A) cardiac muscle. B) skeletal muscle. C) smooth muscle. D) both smooth muscle and skeletal muscle.
1 Smooth muscle, neither striated in structure nor under voluntary control, is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair). 
Smooth muscle lines the intestines, and contracts in waves to push food along.   Smooth muscle smooth muscle The type of muscle that the pushes food down to the intestines is called smooth muscle tissue. This is an involuntary non-straited muscle that is found within the walls of blood vessels. Yes smooth muscles are the muscles found in small intestine.
Cardiac muscle (heart muscle). This type of muscle is found solely in the walls of the heart. It has similarities with skeletal muscles in that it is striated and with smooth muscles in that its contractions are not under conscious control. However this type of muscle is highly specialised. Smooth muscle is also sometimes known as Involuntary muscle due to our inability to control its movements, or Unstriated as it does not have the stripy appearance of Skeletal muscle. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs such as the Stomach, Oesophagus, Bronchi and in the walls of blood vessels.
Report Abuse. Smooth muscle tissue is a tissue type. This type is usually found in the walls of the hollow viscera. Found in distending and contractile organs such as the bladder and the stomach. This tissue is involuntary. sterlingtears · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. Best Answer: Smooth muscle tissue is located in the walls of organs, the bladder, abdominal cavity, uterus, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, vasculature, skin, ciliary muscle, and the iris of the eye. Its purpose is to keep organ structure against other forces. It is elastic and easily stretched.
Smooth muscle: Found in the walls of hollow organs. Cardiac muscle: Exists only in your heart. Three types of muscle. You've got around 650 muscles in your body, and they make up roughly half of your bodyweight. These muscles can be divided into three different groups: skeletal, smooth and cardiac. Skeletal muscle generates heat as a by-product of muscle activity. This heat is vital for maintaining your normal body temperature. Smooth Muscle. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs like your intestines and stomach. They work automatically without you being aware of them. Smooth muscles are involved in many 'housekeeping' functions of the body. The muscular walls of your intestines contract to push food through your body