Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 11741 in baby name popularity for girls with 9 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Sula Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sula has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sula to other names.
Comments and insights on the name Sula: | Edit. Sula is a variant of the Hebrew name Shulamith (Salome) and a nickname for Ursula. Sula and Saul are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters.
List of Latin baby names, Latin baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Latin names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Latin baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Sula in Latin origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. © Copyright 2015 Babynology.
[ 2 syll. su-la, sul-a ] The baby girl name Sula is pronounced as S UW-Laa- †. Sula is mainly used in the Estonian language, and it is of Icelandic and Latin origin. From Icelandic roots, its meaning is the gannett. In addition, Sula is a variant form of the English, German, Italian, and Scandinavian name Ursula in the Estonian language. The name Soola is a variant form of Sula. Sula is rare as a baby name for girls. In 1900, 0.009% of baby girls were given the name Sula. It ranked at #703 then.
Characters' names are of great significance in this novel; they are often direct reflections of the characters and their personalities. Sula's last name is Peace, which might be ironic, since she brings anything but peace to the people in her life. Nel's last name is Wright. 
Sula is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Su-la. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 11741 in baby name popularity for girls with 9 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Sula Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sula has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sula to other names.
You can find out where the majority of the Sula families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. 
Meaning: The Hebrew name Sula means-a short form of Shulamith, Ursula. Meaning: The Greek name Sula means-a short form of Shulamith, Ursula. Rating:
Sula /su-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Sula's root is Hebrew, and the meaning of the name Sula is peace; little she-bear. Sula is an alternate spelling of Shulamith (Hebrew): composer Shulamit Ran. Sula is also a variation of Ursula (Scandinavian, Latin). Kreatif forms: Siola, Suhan, Suvia