Housing Prices. Though South Carolina is a popular state and has a number of wealthy communities, the average home price in 2011 was $158,900. Of course, actual prices vary per region and there are some places, such as Hilton Head Island, where homes can be expensive. In addition to a relatively low cost of living, South Carolina has an average household income of $39,454, so it’s clear that if you have a reliable source of income and manage your finances responsibly, you should be able to attain a comfortable lifestyle here.
The South Carolina Propane Gas Association is a trade and membership service organization that represents propane marketers throughout the state. Founded March 25, 1948, the Association has grown in its influence, while maintaining its core principles of education and safety. 
The prices below are for regular gasoline as of 10/15/2015 2:34:17 AM local time. Show Average Prices By Metro Area. 
Average price of gas in South Carolina drops to $3.16 a gallon. CHARLESTON, SC (WCSC) -. Gas prices are down nationally about 15 cents from the holiday weekend a year ago. In South Carolina, the average price has dropped to $3.16 a gallon. If you need to fill your tank, we've rounded up some of the cheapest gas across the Lowcountry. In North Charleston, gas is just $3.03 a gallon at the Sunoco on West Montague Avenue at Fargo Street
The prices below are for regular gasoline as of 10/15/2015 3:21:56 AM local time. Show Average Prices By Metro Area. 
Gas Prices for Cities in South Carolina. The links below are to pages that are not part of the fueleconomy.gov. We offer these external links for your convenience in accessing additional information that may be useful or interesting to you.
Cost of Living in South Carolina. Compared to the US average, the cost of living in South Carolina is almost 13 percent lower, and compared to the most expensive states such as Hawaii, New York, Alaska and California, costs are lower by approximately 30 percent! In addition to a relatively low cost of living, South Carolina has an average household income of $39,454, so it’s clear that if you have a reliable source of income and manage your finances responsibly, you should be able to attain a comfortable lifestyle here.
21st lowest. South Carolina has below average electricity prices (16 percent lower) and the third lowest gasoline prices in the United States. More than half of South Carolina’s electricity is generated by nuclear power plants and another 35 percent comes from coal-fired power plants. Natural gas supplies most of the remainder, with gas supplied by pipeline from the Gulf coast. South Carolina is one of the top nuclear power producers in the United States.
Rents are relatively high in South Carolina, with a two-bedroom in Columbia costing around $725 per month and a three-bedroom, $1,000. In Charleston, expect to pay $1,150 for a two-bedroom and $1,500 for a three-bedroom. In addition to a relatively low cost of living, South Carolina has an average household income of $39,454, so it’s clear that if you have a reliable source of income and manage your finances responsibly, you should be able to attain a comfortable lifestyle here.