Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Danny568. Confidence votes 11. red, white,yellow, pink, and orange are the colors that roses come in naturally. However, there are certain colors, like blue, green, purple, and even black that are artifically colored, but its still a real rose. I have several Rose of Sharon trees, and they range in color from a very pale pink to an almost red color. The strange part about this is that most of them came from t … he same original tree as rooting. So in reality they are clones.
Let's start with bloom colors. Miniature roses come in almost every hue imaginable from the purest white to the darkest red, plus pink, yellow, orange, mauve, russet and many shades and blends in between. There are many striped miniature roses such as red and white, yellow and red, orange and yellow, and pink and red. There's a mini color for everybody's whim or taste, except the truest blue, grassy green, and the deepest midnight black.
Pink-, yellow-, red-or white-colored roses (Rosa spp.), some striped or splotched, naturally occur in wild and species roses in varying shades and intensities. Breeders expand the natural range of rose-color possibilities when they combine parent roses to bring out exciting coloration in the offspring's flower petals. No true blue-or black-colored roses exists in nature. Rose colors exist to attract pollinators at the appropriate times. While genetics primarily determine a flower's color, lighting and temperature as well as flower age -- all conditions that concern propagators -- influence color variations.
Red. Although red is the traditional color of the romantic long stem bouquet given on Valentine’s Day, this color is also used in the smaller, sturdier “Knockout” roses used in landscaping and gardening. This color attracts both butterflies and hummingbirds, adding even more color to the garden. The “Rainbow Knockout” rose (Rosa x “Radcor”) grows in USDA zones 5 through 10 and features two colors within the same flower. The outside of the flat-form flower features a bright pink color, but the petals turn bright yellow near the center. 1  Dig This.
Yellow. “Knockout” roses also come in yellow, and this color is often used to contrast with red and pink roses. The vibrant yellow is also attractive to butterflies and birds and is particularly attractive to bees. The “Rainbow Knockout” rose (Rosa x “Radcor”) grows in USDA zones 5 through 10 and features two colors within the same flower. The outside of the flat-form flower features a bright pink color, but the petals turn bright yellow near the center. 1  Dig This.
Roses-Significance and Meaning of Each Color. Roses come in a wide range of colors. Each different color has a different meaning, or significance. It sends a silent, yet extremely important message from the sender to receiver. Make that a dozen! The meaning of this rose color is quite clear. Red roses represent love, beauty, courage and respect. White Whit is the color of purity and innocence. It also represents silence or secrecy, reverence and humility.
Flower colors of red, pink, blue and purple come mainly from the pigments called anthocyanins, which are in the class of chemicals called flavanoids (what gives plants their color). Other pigments are carotenoids, found in tomatoes and carrots, that provide yellow, red and orange in the plastids. 
Roses are red, and pink, and many other colors. Passion Growers knows that giving roses as a gift shows a deep appreciation for the recipient and your feelings towards them. Deep or dark red roses can reveal an unconscious beauty. Pink. Words like admiration, gentleness, grace, gladness, joy and sweetness are just a few ways to describe the meaning behind the pink rose. A pink rose can also convey happiness, gracefulness and admiration.
“Knockout” roses also come in yellow, and this color is often used to contrast with red and pink roses. The “Rainbow Knockout” rose (Rosa x “Radcor”) grows in USDA zones 5 through 10 and features two colors within the same flower. The outside of the flat-form flower features a bright pink color, but the petals turn bright yellow near the center. 1  Dig This.