Nerve cells differ from other cells in that they have a unique shape and an electrically excitable membrane. This allows them to receive and transmit electrical signals. The … ends of nerve cells (dendrites) resemble trees-with the ends branching out in many directions. A single nerve can carry a lot of nerve impulses on its bundled axons, much as a phone cable can carry many phone messages on the individual wires inside the cable. A nerve cell is part of a cell and a nerve is something completely different. 7 people found this useful.
A different set of genes are active in muscle cells which allow it to perform particular functions. A different set of genes are active in nerve cells which allow the nerve cell to perform a different set of specialized functions. Muscle cells differ from nerve cells mainly because? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. When you're not busy performing, what do you like to do for fun? Mature human nerve cells and muscle cells? What type of nerve cell stimulates muscle cells to contract? How are bone cells and nerve ...
A different set of genes are active in muscle cells which allow it to perform particular functions. A different set of genes are active in nerve cells which allow the nerve cell to perform a different set of specialized functions. 8 people found this useful. Sandapanda Hildebranda. A single nerve can carry a lot of nerve impulses on its bundled axons, much as a phone cable can carry many phone messages on the individual wires inside the cable. A nerve cell is part of a cell and a nerve is something completely different. 7
Stem cells (that may differentiate into any cell) turn into nerve and muscle cells. Once they differentiate to the different type of it cannot switch from one type of cell to … another. So, in short, the answer is no.. 3 people found this useful. Muscle cells differ from nerve cells mainly because? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. When you're not busy performing, what do you like to do for fun? Mature human nerve cells and muscle cells? What type of nerve cell stimulates muscle cells to contract? How are bone cells and nerve ...
In other cells, such as gland cells and ciliated cells, it is believed that the membrane voltage is important to the execution of cell function. The origin of the membrane voltage is the same in nerve cells as in muscle cells. In both cell types, the membrane generates an impulse as a consequence of excitation. This impulse propagates in both cell types in the same manner. What follows is a short introduction to the anatomy and physiology of nerve cells. (2) numerous short processes of the soma, called the dendrites; and, (3) the single long nerve fiber, the axon. These are described in Figure 2.1. The body of a nerve cell (see also (Schad and Ford, 1973)) is similar to that of all other cells.
Nerve cells differ from other cells in that they have a unique shape and an electrically excitable membrane. This allows them to receive and transmit electrical signals. The … ends of nerve cells (dendrites) resemble trees-with the ends branching out in many directions. Muscle cells differ from nerve cells mainly because? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. When you're not busy performing, what do you like to do for fun? Mature human nerve cells and muscle cells? What type of nerve cell stimulates muscle cells to contract? How are bone cells and nerve ...
2. Muscle cells differ from nerve cells ... 3. What would occur if the repressor of an ... 4. The functioning of enhancers is an ... 5. Absence of bicoid mRNA from a ... 6. Which of the following statements about ... A. the production of tissue-specific proteins such as muscle actin. B. the movement of cells. C. the transcription of the myoD genes. D. the selective loss of certain genes from the genome. E. the cells sensitivity to environmental cues, such as light or heat.
Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated. Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle.
Cells are specialized in their anatomy and physiology to perform different tasks. All cells exhibit a voltage difference across the cell membrane. Nerve cells and muscle cells are excitable. Their cell membrane can produce electrochemical impulses and conduct them along the membrane. In muscle cells, this electric phenomenon is also associated with the contraction of the cell. (2) numerous short processes of the soma, called the dendrites; and, (3) the single long nerve fiber, the axon. These are described in Figure 2.1. The body of a nerve cell (see also (Schad and Ford, 1973)) is similar to that of all other cells.