Best Answer: There's only one way to get pregnant the guy has to be physically inside of you weather he's on top or your on top if his private area has to be in. I think you may want to sit down and have the birds and bee's talk with your parents. Report Abuse. You get pregnant by having sex, and if you dont know how you can get pregnant then you need to quit all things until you know about these things. sweetm12004 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
First, review the basics: 1  You can ovulate anywhere from 13 to 20 days before your next period. 2  To get pregnant, you should have sex a few days leading up to and on the day of ovulation. 3  Sperm can live up to 6 days in your body, but your egg can only survive 12 to 24 hours. 1 You can ovulate anywhere from 13 to 20 days before your next period. 2  To get pregnant, you should have sex a few days leading up to and on the day of ovulation.
For women with regular cycles between 26-32 days it is much easier to simply know that you can get pregnant as early as day 8 of your cycle and as late as day 19 of your cycle and on all the days in between. If you have intercourse often during this time, you have an extremely high probability of getting pregnant. This is because sperm can live for up to 5 days in a woman's body, and the ovum lives for only 12-24 hours. However, the key to knowing when to get pregnant is to know when you ovulate.
Know Your Days. There are only six days during any cycle when a woman can get pregnant-the five days leading up to ovulation and the 24 hours after ovulation. This is because sperm can live for up to 5 days in a woman's body, and the ovum lives for only 12-24 hours. However, the key to knowing when to get pregnant is to know when you ovulate.
Now everyone can cure infertility using this natural remedy https://healthcare.im/getting-pregnant infertility can run in the family and one of the first things the doctor asks you when you go to a fertility clinic is your family history regarding cases of infertility or other reproductive issues. Report Abuse. You get pregnant by having sex, and if you dont know how you can get pregnant then you need to quit all things until you know about these things. sweetm12004 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Yes, you can get pregnant right after your period. You are actually starting to move into your fertility window. On a typical cycle that occurs every 28 to 30 days, the fertility window is usually between Day 11 and Day 21. As noted above sperm can live 2, 3 and up to 5 days. The question about whether you can get pregnant on your period or not is probably the most common of the three situations noted above. The answer is yes and no. The probability is that you would not get pregnant having sex during
1 To get pregnant, you should have sex a few days leading up to and on the day of ovulation. 2  Sperm can live up to 6 days in your body, but your egg can only survive 12 to 24 hours. 3  That's why having sex before and during ovulation is best, so that you raise the odds of the sperm and egg meeting. 1 You can ovulate anywhere from 13 to 20 days before your next period. 2  To get pregnant, you should have sex a few days leading up to and on the day of ovulation. 3  Sperm can live up to 6 days in your body, but your egg can only survive 12 to 24 hours
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A woman can get pregnant in sevral ways but the general way is this: If either the sperm or pre-ejaculation comes in conntact with the vagina it can cause a woman to become impregnated. Any sex with out a condom can cause a prenancy, this includes anal sex. 
Understanding how pregnancy happens is important. If you want to avoid pregnancy, it helps to know when a woman is most likely to get pregnant, and when she is not. If you are trying to become pregnant, it is important to know when getting pregnant is most likely and the different ways it can happen. And some women have different patterns from one month to the next. One way is to chart your menstrual cycle. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long, but many women have cycles that are shorter or longer, and some women have irregular cycles. If you have an irregular cycle, it can be hard to predict ovulation.