A section of the mastoid process of the temporal bone of the cranium shows it to be hollowed out into a number of spaces, the mastoid cells, which exhibit great variety in their size and number. 
As mentioned above, mastoiditis most often develops as a result of a middle ear infection. Bacteria from the middle ear can travel into the air cells of the mastoid bone. In addition, a type of skin cyst in the middle ear, called a cholesteatoma, may block drainage of the ear, leading to mastoiditis. Mastoiditis is a bacterial infection of the mastoid bone. The mastoid bone, which sits behind the ear, consists of air spaces that help drain the middle ear. When the mastoid cells become infected or inflamed, often as a result of an unresolved middle ear infection (otitis media), mastoiditis can develop. In acute mastoiditis, infection may spread outside of the mastoid bone and cause serious health complication
Mastoid air cell disease most commonly refers to infection or inflammation involving the mastoid air cells. These are a system of air cells within the mastoid bone. The mastoid bone is located immediately behind the ear and is continuous with the middle ear space. 
Partial opacification of the bilateral mastoid air cells, middle ear, ethmoid air cells. 2. Get help from a doctor now ›. Inflammation: May be due to allergy, a viral or bacterial infection or its residual. Need more history to better define. Ct showed near complete opacification in the right mastoid air cells. 3. Get help from a doctor now ›. Mastoiditis: Hello. If the mastoid cavity is actively infected, then this is considered a medical emergency because the infection is so close to the brain.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Opacification of the mastoid air cells means there is an infection in the nasal cavity. This is when there is a mastoid inflammation or infection and involves the mastoid air cells. 
Opacification of the mastoid air cells means there is an infection  in the nasal cavity. This is when there is a mastoid inflammation  or infection and involves the mastoid … air cells. 11 people found this useful. If the mastoid air cells are absent or fluid filled, there is less compliance in the system, decreasing the ability for the tympanic membrane to move and transmit sound, decreasing auditory acuity.
In addition, the mastoid air cells provide secretions that slowly travel from the mastoid air cells through the middle ear and into the posterior nasopharynx by way of the eustachian tubes in order to keep the middle ear clear of debris. If the mastoid air cells are absent or fluid filled, there is less compliance in the system, decreasing the ability for the tympanic membrane to move and transmit sound, decreasing auditory acuity.
Many patients have some mucosal thickening or a small amount of fluid in 1 or more of the sinuses or mastoid air cells. However, if there is pressure, pain or tenderness over the sinuses or around/behind an ear, a fever or foul smelling, bloody or purulent nasal secretions, a sinus infection or mastoiditis is a concern. Ct showed near complete opacification in the right mastoid air cells. 3. Get help from a doctor now ›. Mastoiditis: Hello. If the mastoid cavity is actively infected, then this is considered a medical emergency because the infection is so close to the brain.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Mastoiditis is the result of an infection that extends to the air cells of the skull behind the ear. Specifically, it is an inflammation of the mucosal lining of the mastoid antrum and mastoid air cell system inside the mastoid process. The mastoid process is the portion of the temporal bone of the skull that is behind the ear which contains open, air-containing spaces