Archipelago. An archipelago, sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster or collection of islands. The word archipelago is derived from the Greek ἄρχι- – arkhi-and πέλαγος – pelagos pélagos through The italian. arcipelago
An Archipelago is a landform that is a group of many islands. Some of the most famous. archipelagos of the world are many of the islands around Japan, Hawaii and the British Islands. Most people think this type of landform is what you see on movies but that is not necessarily so.
The Greeks originally used the word archipelagos for the Aegean Sea, which washes against the shores of Greece and was their “chief sea.” Since the Aegean Sea is studded with many islands, the word “archipelago” came to mean any sea that is filled with islands.
An archipelago is a group, chain or cluster of islands surrounded by a large body of water, usually the open sea.
The largest archipelagic state in the world by area and population is Indonesia. The archipelago with the most islands is the Swedish East Coast Archipelago, which contains the Stockholm Archipelago, which, in turn, connects to the world's second largest archipelago, the Archipelago Sea in Finland.
An archipelago (/ɑrkɨˈpɛləɡoʊ/ ark-i-PEL-ə-goh), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster or collection of islands. The word archipelago is derived from the Greek ἄρχι- – arkhi- (chief) and πέλαγος – pelagos (pélagos) sea through The italian. arcipelago
An archipelago is a group, chain or cluster of islands surrounded by a large body of water, usually the open sea. + 85 others found this useful. Ben Ward. Edit. Share to: Bayley Dole. 1,609 Contributions. Avid reader of American History books, previous AP Government and AP US History student.
Archipelago is a fancy geographical term for a chain or group of islands scattered across a body of water. Although archipelagos can be found in large lakes or rivers, they're most often found in the world's oceans. Several large modern countries are actually archipelagos.