Botox is short for botulinum toxin, a poison created by a Clostridium botulinum, or the bacterium that causes botulism. It is the most toxic substance known to man. It is a pr … otein, and thus made of the usual elements (carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen and additionally sulfur). + 20 others found this useful. No, botox is not made from snake venom. There is new anti-aging/anti-wrinkle treatment involving the use of synthetic venom proteins that are copies of the neuro-toxic p … roteins found in
Botox is short for botulinum toxin, a poison created by a Clostridium botulinum, or the bacterium that causes botulism. It is the most toxic substance known to man. It is a protein, and thus made of the usual elements (carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen and additionally sulfur). No, botox is not made from snake venom. There is new anti-aging/anti-wrinkle treatment involving the use of synthetic venom proteins that are copies of the neuro-toxic p … roteins found in snake venom. Rather than being injected, these venom proteins are put into a topical cream that is applied to the skin.
Botox is a popular treatment for facial wrinkles that has been used for over 15 years by the cosmetic surgery industry. Botox is a bacteria that can be harmful to the human body in high doses. This bacteria is called Clostridium Botulinum which is the same bacteria that causes food poisoning. Despite the dangers botox can be used in small quantities as a muscle relaxant to get rid of facial wrinkles quickl
Botox on the other hand is derived from the bacteria Clostridium botulinum which is the bacteria responsible for the foodborne illness known as botulism. Botox, also known as Botulinum toxin type A, is a drug made from a toxin produced by the bacteria. No, botox is not made from snake venom. There is new anti-aging/anti-wrinkle treatment involving the use of synthetic venom proteins that are copies of the neuro-toxic p … roteins found in snake venom. Rather than being injected, these venom proteins are put into a topical cream that is applied to the skin.
1 Botox is a neurotoxin derived from Clostridium botulinum, an organism found in the natural environment where it is largely inactive and non-toxic. 2  Botulinum toxin is used to reduce fine lines and wrinkles by paralysing the underlying muscles. Botulinum toxin is sold commercially under the names: 1  Botox, Vistabel, Botox cosmetic (OnabotulinumtoxinA or botulinum toxin type A). 2  Dysport (AbobotulinumtoxinA or botulinum toxin type A). 3  Bocouture, Xeomin (IncobotulinumtoxinA or botulinum toxin type A). 4  Myobloc (RimabotulinumtoxinB or botulinum toxin type B).
Knowledge center. Botox is a drug made from a neurotoxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum called botulinum toxin. It is used medically to treat certain muscular conditions and cosmetically remove wrinkles by temporarily paralyzing muscles. Botulinum toxin is sold commercially under the names: 1  Botox, Vistabel, Botox cosmetic (OnabotulinumtoxinA or botulinum toxin type A). 2  Dysport (AbobotulinumtoxinA or botulinum toxin type A). 3  Bocouture, Xeomin (IncobotulinumtoxinA or botulinum toxin type A). 4  Myobloc (RimabotulinumtoxinB or botulinum toxin type B).
Botox is made from botulinum toxin type A, which comes from the Clostridium botulinum bacterium--the same organism that causes the food poisoning known as botulism. Botox is approved for the treatment of 20 conditions in dozens of countries around the world. Serious conditions treated by Botox include cervical dystonia, belpharospasm, strabismus and severe primary axillary hyperhidrosis.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Botulinum toxin type A or BOTOX Botulinum toxin type A is a toxin produced by the bacteria that causes botulism. Botulinum toxin type A affects the nerves. When injected into a muscle, it produces a reduction in the activity of the muscle. Botulinum toxin type A is used to reduce abnormal head position and neck pain in patients with cervical dystonia (spasms of the neck muscles).
Botox on the other hand is derived from the bacteria Clostridium botulinum which is the bacteria responsible for the foodborne illness known as botulism. Botox, also known as Botulinum toxin type A, is a drug made from a toxin produced by the bacteria. No, botox is not made from snake venom. There is new anti-aging/anti-wrinkle treatment involving the use of synthetic venom proteins that are copies of the neuro-toxic p … roteins found in