While the body is able to produce anywhere from 1 to 2 grams of creatine per day, a healthy male adult weighing 200 pounds or more might be able to consume another 10 grams per day, as long as a sufficient amount of water is also being consumed. Up to 199 pounds can take about 8 grams per day, while 200 to 240 pound people can safely take from 8 to ten grams per day. Finally, a healthy adult who weighs more than 240 pounds can take anywhere from 10 to 12 grams of creatine per day. Remember, these amounts are just suggestions and can vary based on many factors.
Creatine usually stays in the body for about an hour. Photo Credit Photos.com/Photos.com/Getty Images. Creatine is a much-touted sports supplement that many users believe enhances athletic performance while reducing post-workout recovery times. According to Creatine: What You Need to Know author Edmund Burke, some users purport taking the supplement with grape or apple juice lessens the potential for these side effects, claiming the sugar in the juice allows the body to better absorb the extra creatine.
Originally Posted by Brawndo89 First of all, if you retain a lot of water, you're probably taking too much creatine. For instance, I get the same result at 5grams 4 days a week that I do at 5grams 7 days a week. The difference? I gain 5-7 pounds of water at 5g/7days. When I initally switched from 5g/7 to 5g/4 I seriously pissed out that 5-7 pounds of water I mentioned. But when I cycle off creatine completely...it takes about 4-5 days to piss out all the water. edit: No you don't HAVE to cycle off creatine...I just like to. It also lets me know it works, which I like. Rep Power: 6388. First of all, if you retain a lot of water, you're probably taking too much creatine. For instance, I get the same result at 5grams 4 days a week that I do at 5grams 7 days a week.
Using a small dose (5g), this will take up to thirty days depending on the individual's lean body mass. However using a loading dosage of 15-25g per day for 5 days, one can quickly saturate the muscle cells in this time period and then use a maintenance dosage (3-5g) for the remainder of their time taking creatine. Meaning taking excess creatine for a short period of time (4-8 weeks) may temporarily increase your creatine phosphate stores but after awhile your body's feedback mechanisms will likely place some time of control on creatine phosphate storage to bring the levels back down to normal.
For the fastest possible benefits, take 10-to-20 grams of creatine monohydrate daily for 7-to-14 days. This is known as the loading phase and will shorten the time necessary to see results from creatine. I started taking MusclePharm Creatine 7 days ago, 4 days of 10grams and the last 3 days I've been taking 5 grams. My weight before starting creatine was 142lbs and now a week later, my weight is 148lbs.
Yes, it is extremely safe to take creatine. Creatine is considered an amino acid that is naturally produced by the body in both animals and humans. An average human being has more than 100 grams of creatine stored in their body in the form of creatine phosphate. Up to 199 pounds can take about 8 grams per day, while 200 to 240 pound people can safely take from 8 to ten grams per day. Finally, a healthy adult who weighs more than 240 pounds can take anywhere from 10 to 12 grams of creatine per day. Remember, these amounts are just suggestions and can vary based on many factors.
Dose. Generally speaking, the average dose of creatine a person ingests is 1 to 2 tbsp. daily. Most fitness goers using the supplement usually split their doses in half, taking one helping about an hour before a workout or athletic performance and another within an hour afterward. According to Creatine: What You Need to Know author Edmund Burke, some users purport taking the supplement with grape or apple juice lessens the potential for these side effects, claiming the sugar in the juice allows the body to better absorb the extra creatine.
However if you want to raise the creatine levels within your body even faster, then consider the loading phase, taking 5g of creatine 4 times a day for the first 5 days. To order from the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, Spain, France or Italy see product links below. Although there is nothing wrong with cycling creatine, it is not actually necasery, however if you cycle creatine it takes around 30 days for the creatine levels to return back to normal, you could cycle 30 days on 30 days off, 60 days on 30 days off etc..