If you have misplaced your lifetime member number, you can call Weight Watchers at 800-651-6000, or by filling out a request form at WeightWatchers.com. To learn more about Weight Watchers or other diet services, see our reviews and comparison chart.
You're awarded Lifetime Membership once you reach the following criteria: 1  You select and achieve a weight goal that is within the Weight Watchers Healthy Weight Ranges (or above Weight Watchers weight ranges if a note from a physician has been provided) and at least 5 lbs less than your initial start weight.
Great for support when you're traveling! ► FREE ETOOLS ◄. When you reach Lifetime Member status, your meeting leader or receptionist will give you a voucher with a special online access code which is good for eight free weeks of Weight Watchers eTools.
If you attend Weight Watchers meetings (sorry, WW Online-only members can't attain Lifetime Member status, but read my comments at the end of this post and I'll tell you how you can!) and you reach your WW-approved goal weight, you will switch from weight loss mode to a 6 week maintenance period.
As a Lifetime Member, you don’t have to pay for any missed meetings unless you haven’t weighed in at a Weight Watchers meeting in the previous calendar month or are 2 lbs above your goal weight. 1  If you are at goal but missed a month, you will only have to pay for the missed monthly weigh-in.
A: Weight Watchers meetings members who reach their goal weight and maintain that goal weight within two pounds for six consecutive weeks are awarded lifetime memberships. Lifetime members may attend Weight Watchers meetings at no charge, as long as they remain no more than two pounds above their goal weight. Once you have reached lifetime member status, you will always be a lifetime member and will never have to pay another registration fee.
Lifetime members never have to pay a registration fee, should they return to Weight Watchers after a hiatus from meetings. Lifetime members also have the opportunity to work for Weight Watchers as receptionists or Leaders in the meeting room.
The cost for the 10-week session is $125 for new members and rejoining members; $120 for continuing members; $110 for lifetime members who are above their goal weight; and $49 for a monthly pass, which includes the very helpful online e-tools.