A gait disorder is any type of abnormality that impairs an individual's ability to walk normally. Because cerebral palsy causes many patients to develop an abnormal skeletal structure and/or muscle tone, many patients will have difficulty walking, which can manifest as: 1  bowlegs. 2  clubfoot. 
The diagnosis of a functional gait disorder is usually made by a neurologist. It can be a difficult diagnosis to make because it requires expert knowledge of the full range of movement disorders due to neurological disease, many of which are unusual or even bizarre. 1. Dragging Gait of Functional Leg Weakness. One of the most common functional gait disorders is the ‘dragging’ gait seen in patients with functional weakness of one leg. You can read more about functional leg weakness here. People with this kind of leg weakness find that the leg drags along the ground. It doesnt often look as dramatic as this
Gait abnormality is a deviation from normal walking (gait). Watching a patient walk is the most important part of the neurological examination. Normal gait requires that many systems, including strength, sensation and coordination, function in an integrated fashion. Many common problems in the nervous system and musculoskeletal system will show up in the way a person walks.
gait disorder, an abnormality in the manner or style of walking, which usually results from neuromuscular, arthritic, or other body changes. The body's center of gravity may change over the years, causing a change in the degree of knee flexion needed to maintain one's balance when walking. Some individuals with neuromuscular disorders walk with a shuffling gait or move with lurching actions. At times a gait disorder may be the result of a medication that causes confusion or loss of coordination or an eye or ear disturbance that affects the sense of balance
Gait disorder: Gait disorder refers to a variety of disorders of walking. See detailed information below for a list of 52 causes of Gait disorder, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. Gait disorder: Comorbid Symptoms. Some of the comorbid or associated medical symptoms for Gait disorder may include these symptoms: 1  Musculoskeletal symptoms. 2  Nerve symptoms. 3  Abnormal gait. 4  Muscl
Gait and balance disorders are common in older adults and are a major cause of falls in this population. They are associated with increased morbidity and mortality, as well as reduced level of function. Because gait and balance disorders are major causes of falls, and predict future falls more consistently than other identified risk factors (likelihood ratio range, 1.7 to 2.4), 27 evaluation of gait and balance is an essential step in identifying persons at increased risk of falling.
Report Abuse. Gait disorder would mean some type of disorder with walking. It could be from a stroke or some disease like MS or parkinsons etc. It is a general term per say and not a diagnosis really. 
Gait disorder: Symptom Checker. Listed below are some combinations of symptoms associated with Gait disorder, as listed in our database. Visit the Symptom Checker, to add and remove symptoms and research your condition. Gait disorder: Comorbid Symptoms. Some of the comorbid or associated medical symptoms for Gait disorder may include these symptoms: 1  Musculoskeletal symptoms. 2  Nerve symptoms. 3  Abnormal gait. 4  Muscl
The evaluation of gait and balance disorders parallels the evaluation of falls 9, 28, 29 and is described in Table 2. 28, 29, 31, 32 Patient problems (e.g., foot pain) and descriptions of difficulties with gait or balance (e.g., feeling unsteady) help frame the evaluation of gait and balance disorders. Because gait and balance disorders are major causes of falls, and predict future falls more consistently than other identified risk factors (likelihood ratio range, 1.7 to 2.4), 27 evaluation of gait and balance is an essential step in identifying persons at increased risk of falling.