The two most common forms of arthritis from disease are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Osteoarthritis is much more common and generally affects older people. Also known as wear and tear arthritis, osteoarthritis causes cartilage to wear away. It appears in a predictable pattern in certain joints. Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic disease that can affect many parts of your body. It causes the joint lining (synovium) to swell, which causes pain and stiffness in the joint. Rheumatoid arthritis most often starts in the small joints of the hands and feet. It usually affects the same joints on both sides of the bod
Symptoms of osteoarthritis may include joint pain and progressive stiffness that develops gradually. Symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis may include painful swelling, inflammation, and stiffness in the fingers, arms, legs, and wrists occurring in the same joints on both sides of the body, especially upon awakening. Arthritis Overview. Common arthritis symptoms of pain and stiffness are usually caused by degenerative arthritis (osteoarthritis). The more than 100 types of arthritis include rheumatoid arthritis and gout. A diagnosis is necessary in order to develop a treatment plan.
Common arthritis symptoms of pain and stiffness are usually caused by degenerative arthritis (osteoarthritis). The more than 100 types of arthritis include rheumatoid arthritis and gout. Arthritis Overview. Common arthritis symptoms of pain and stiffness are usually caused by degenerative arthritis (osteoarthritis). The more than 100 types of arthritis include rheumatoid arthritis and gout. A diagnosis is necessary in order to develop a treatment plan.
For many people, arthritis of the elbow can cause pain not only when they bend their elbow, but also when they straighten it, such as to carry a briefcase. The most common cause of arthritis of the elbow is rheumatoid arthritis. Osteoarthritis and injuries can also cause arthritis in the elbow joint. Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease of the joint linings, or synovia. As the joint lining swells, the joint space narrows.
Arthritis-like pain: Introduction. Arthritis-like pain: Arthritis-like pain is discomfort that resembles the pain of arthritis. See detailed information below for a list of 10 causes of Arthritis-like pain, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Arthritis-like pain: Causes | Symptom Checker ». The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Arthritis-like pain. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Ankylosing spondylitis. 2  Osteomalacia. 3  Osteopetrosis. 4  Hemophilia. 5  Hemochromatosis. 6  Avascular necrosis.
Arthritis-like symptoms usually refers to joint pain, joint redness, joint inflammation, joint swelling, and other joint symptoms. 
Rheumatoid arthritis has many symptoms that you might not associate with arthritis pain. These can include: 1  Joint pain that occurs on both sides of the body, such as both feet, ankles, wrists, or fingers. 2  Significant stiffness in the morning that persists for at least an hour. 3  Aching muscles all over the body. 4  Weak muscles. While joint pain and stiffness are the most common terms used to describe arthritis pain, the warning signs are pretty specific. Here's what you need to know in order to get the right diagnosis — and the best treatment.
Arthritis Pain. Arthritis is a painful and degenerative condition marked by inflammation in the joints that causes stiffness and pain. Osteoarthritis, the most common type of arthritis, gets worse with age and is caused by wear and tear over the years. 