Earth's Tilt Is the Reason for the Seasons! During the year, the seasons change depending on the amount of sunlight reaching the Earth as it revolves around the Sun. The seasons are caused as the Earth, tilted on its axis, travels in a loop around the Sun each year. Summer happens in the hemisphere tilted towards the Sun, and winter happens in the hemisphere tilted away from the Sun. 
In astronomy, axial tilt, also known as obliquity, is the angle between an object's rotational axis and its orbital axis, or, equivalently, the angle between its equatorial plane and orbital plane. It differs from orbital inclination. At an obliquity of zero, these lines point in the same direction i.e. the rotational axis is perpendicular to the orbital plane. Axial tilt differs from inclination. Because the planet Venus has an axial tilt of 177° its rotation can be considered retrograde, opposite that of most of the other planets.
Because the Earth axis is tilted, we experience the seasons on Earth. During summer in the northern hemisphere, the Earth’s axis is tilted so that the north pole of the Earth is tilted towards the Sun. Regions in the northern hemisphere experience more sunlight and so they’re warmer than the southern hemisphere.
Earth view from Apollo 11. Have you ever why the Earth is tilted instead of just perpendicular with its plane of orbit. Scientists have taken a crack at answering that question. The main consensus is that it has to do with Earth’s formation along with the rest of the planets in the Solar system. All the same the Earth’s tilt is very important. It is perfectly positioned so that it gives us the seasons and on top of that the seasons are near perfectly calibrated for life. When compared with other planets Earth’s tilt allows for season that are not two extreme in temperature but are pretty well balanced.
Obliquity (change in axial tilt). As the axial tilt increases, the seasonal contrast increases so that winters are colder and summers are warmer in both hemispheres. Today, the Earth's axis is tilted 23.5 degrees from the plane of its orbit around the sun. But this tilt changes. During a cycle that averages about 40,000 years, the tilt of the axis varies between 22.1 and 24.5 degrees. Because this tilt changes, the seasons as we know them can become exaggerated. 
Earth 's orbital plane is known as the ecliptic plane, and Earth's tilt is known to astronomers as the obliquity of the ecliptic, being the angle between the ecliptic and the celestial equator on the celestial sphere. It is denoted by the Greek letter ε. At an obliquity of zero, these lines point in the same direction i.e. the rotational axis is perpendicular to the orbital plane. Axial tilt differs from inclination. Because the planet Venus has an axial tilt of 177° its rotation can be considered retrograde, opposite that of most of the other planets.
That’s logical, but not the case, for Earth. Instead, Earth has seasons because our planet’s axis of rotation is tilted at an angle of 23.5 degrees relative to our orbital plane – the plane of Earth’s orbit around the sun. The tilt in the axis of the Earth is called its obliquity by scientists. Instead, our seasons change because Earth tilts on its axis, and the angle of tilt causes the Northern and Southern Hemisphere to trade places throughout the year in receiving the sun’s light and warmth most directly.
The Earth's axis is tilted from perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic by 23.45°. This tilting is what gives us the four seasons of the year-spring, summer, autumn (fall) and winter. Since the axis is tilted, different parts of the globe are oriented towards the Sun at different times of the year. These effects are due to the tilt of the Earth's axis. Solstices. The solstices are days when the Sun reaches its farthest northern and southern declinations. The winter solstice occurs on December 21 or 22 and marks the beginning of winter (this is the shortest day of the year).
The Earth’s axis is tilted at an angle of 23.5° away from the plane of the ecliptic. And it’s because of this tilt that we have seasons here on Earth. To better understand this, first we have to think of the Sun. Imagine there’s a line passing through the north pole and south poles of the Sun. During summer in the northern hemisphere, the Earth’s axis is tilted so that the north pole of the Earth is tilted towards the Sun. Regions in the northern hemisphere experience more sunlight and so they’re warmer than the southern hemisphere.
The fact that the earth is tilted on its axis is what's responsible for giving us different seasons. And it's why the southern hemisphere is getting ready for winter at the same time the northern hemisphere is heading into summer. In this Science Update, you'll hear how that tilt got knocked into place. 