Founded in 1909, the NAACP is the nation’s oldest civil rights organization. Throughout the 1920s and 1930s, the association led the black civil rights struggle in fighting injustices such as the denial of voting rights, racial violence, discrimination in employment, and segregated public facilities. 
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). At the time of Martin Luther King, Jr.,’s birth in 1929, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) was already the largest and most influential civil rights organization in the United States. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The NAACP is the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The NAACP was started 12 February 1909 as an organization to promote the rights of minorities. The NAACP consists of different departments that are concerned with various aspects of minority rights such as legal, education and employment. ...the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) is a non-profit organization established with the objective of insuring the political, educational, … social and economic equality of minority groups.. 18 people found this useful.
NAACP. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) was founded in 1909 in New York City by a group of bi-racial activists. Originally called the National Negro Committee, it is the nation's oldest civil rights organization. 
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, or NAACP, is one of the oldest and most influential civil rights organizations in the United States. It was founded in 1909 to work on behalf of black people. 
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) is an American organization that was founded on 12 February 1909 to promote the rights of minorities. The NAACP is an initialism for The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The NAACP began in with W.E.B. DeBois's Niagara Movement.
Founded in 1909, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) today has approximately 425,000 members. In 1916, a new field secretary, James Weldon Johnson, began expanding the organization’s membership in the South. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) was founded in 1909-1910 in New York City by a group of white and black intellectuals.
Report Abuse. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), is one of the oldest and most influential civil rights organizations in the United States. It was founded February 12, 1909 to work on behalf of African Americans. Best Answer: The mission of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is to ensure the political, educational, social and economic equality of rights of all persons and to eliminate racial hatred and racial discrimination. Source(s): http://www.naacp.org/about/about_mission... moomoo · 10 years ago.
Introduction. Founded in 1909, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) was one of the earliest and most influential civil rights organization in the United States. During its early years, the NAACP focused on legal strategies designed to confront the critical civil rights issues of the day. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) was founded in 1909-1910 in New York City by a group of white and black intellectuals.