Tablets. Levofloxacin is given to treat a bacterial infection. It is useful for treating infections such as sinusitis, chest infections, urine infections, prostatitis, and some skin and soft tissue infections. It works by killing the bacteria which are the cause of the infection. 1 Take levofloxacin exactly as your doctor tells you to. 2  The usual dose is 500 mg daily, although for some types of infection a dose of 250 mg daily is sufficient, and for others, 500 mg twice daily is needed. 3  Read the label carefully to make sure you know what dose is right for you.
Levofloxacin and other fluoroquinolones are generally well tolerated, but in rare instances have produced serious adverse reactions such as spontaneous tendon ruptures and irreversible peripheral neuropathy. Tendon damage may manifest months after therapy had been completed. Levofloxacin is the levo isomer of the racemate ofloxacin, another quinolone antimicrobial agent. In layman terms, this means that levofloxacin is the 50% of ofloxacin that have been found to be effective against bacteria, while the other 50% have been removed.
Levaquin ® (levofloxacin) is an antibiotic used to treat a variety of different infections in adults, including: 1  Sinus infections. 2  Bronchitis. 3  Pneumonia. 4  Skin infections. 5  Urinary tract infections. 6  Kidney infections. 7  Prostate infections. 8  Plague infections. Levaquin is approved for treating the infections listed above only when they are caused by certain types of bacteria. Not all bacteria will respond to Levaquin. Also, bacteria have different resistance patterns in different regions of the country.
Levofloxacin is in a group of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones (flor-o-KWIN-o-lones). Levofloxacin fights bacteria in the body. Levofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections of the skin, sinuses, kidneys, bladder, or prostate. Levofloxacin is also used to treat bacterial infections that cause bronchitis or pneumonia, and to treat people who have been exposed to anthrax or plague. Levofloxacin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. What is the most important information I should know about levofloxacin (Levaquin)? You should not use this medication if you are allergic to levofloxacin or similar antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro), gemifloxacin (Factive), moxifloxacin (Avelox), ofloxacin (Floxin), norfloxacin (Noroxin), and others.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Levofloxacin is an antibiotic that is used for treating bacterial infections. Many common infections in humans are caused by bacteria. Bacteria can grow and multiply, infecting different parts of the body. Drugs that control and eradicate these bacteria are called antibiotics. 
A: Levaquin (levofloxacin) is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic which is used to treat many types of bacterial infections including urinary tract infection, and acute pyelonephritis (kidney infection). The most common side effects with Levaquin are headache, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, insomnia, dizziness and rash. Levaquin is the brand name for levofloxacin, a prescription drug used to treat a variety of bacterial infections, such as: 1  Pneumonia. 2  Acute bacterial sinusitis. 3  Chronic bronchitis worsened by bacterial infections. 4  Skin infections. 5  Chronic prostate gland infection. 6  Urinary tract infection. 7  Acute kidney infection
Levofloxacin (trade names Levaquin (US), Tavanic (EU), and others) is a broad-spectrum antibiotic of the fluoroquinolone drug class, and the levo isomer of its predecessor ofloxacin. Levofloxacin is the levo isomer of the racemate ofloxacin, another quinolone antimicrobial agent. In layman terms, this means that levofloxacin is the 50% of ofloxacin that have been found to be effective against bacteria, while the other 50% have been removed.
Levofloxacin and other fluoroquinolones are valued for their broad spectrum of activity, excellent tissue penetration, and for their availability in both oral and intravenous formulations. Levofloxacin is the levo isomer of the racemate ofloxacin, another quinolone antimicrobial agent. In layman terms, this means that levofloxacin is the 50% of ofloxacin that have been found to be effective against bacteria, while the other 50% have been removed.
Levofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. It is also used to prevent an anthrax infection after a person has been exposed to anthrax. 