Ignacio is a male Spanish name originating either from the Roman family name Egnatius, meaning unknown, of Etruscan origin, or from the Latin name  Ignatius  from the word Ignis meaning fire. People 1  : Arnell Ignacio, 21st-century Filipino game show host, comedian, actor and singer-songwriter. 2  Chief Ignacio, a 19th-20th-century leader of the Ute tribe. 3  Dion Ignacio (Dion Joseph Ignacio), 21st-century Filipino actor.
Ignatia has its origins in the Etrusk language and it is used largely in German. It is derived from the word ignis with the meaning 'fire'. From the Roman family name. Ignatia is the feminine version of the Dutch and English Ignatius. Forms of Ignatia include the name Igantiah, the name Ignacia, the German and Italian Ignazia, and the name Iniga. Ignatia is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Ignatia include Ianina, Ignazia, Ismenea, Ismenia, Iuanah, Iuanna, Iuannah, Iuginia, Iugenea, Iugeneah, Iugenia, Iugeniah, Iuginea, Iugineah, Iuginiah, Iugynia, Iugyniah, Igantiah, Ignacia, and Ignia. 
The meaning of Ignatia is “Fiery”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Popularity of the Name Ignatia. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Ignatia is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US
Meaning of Ignatia. Latin-American name. In Latin-American, the name Ignatia means-fiery.The name Ignatia originated as an Latin-American name. The name Ignatia is most often used as a girl name or female name. Latin-American Name Meaning-fiery. Origin-Latin-America
Ignatia is an unusual first name for women. Ignatia is an equivalently unusual last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Ignatia for girls. Ignatia has not been recorded in the Top 1000 thus far. Ignatia /ig-na-tia/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is a variant transcription of Ignacia: feminine of Ignatius. Ignacio is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Ignatiaio, Inatia, Ioignatia.
[ 4 syll. i-gna-tia, ig-nat-ia ] The baby boy name Ignatia is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is ihGN AA-Ziy-aa- †. Ignatia is derived from Etrusk origins. Ignatia is a variant of the name Ignatius (Dutch and English). Ignatia is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Ignatia and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Ignatia and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Popularity of the Name Ignatia. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Ignatia is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US
The first thing you should know if you are considering Ignatia for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Ignatia is a girl name. The name Ignatia is of Latin origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Popularity of the Name Ignatia. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Ignatia is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US