Characteristic pancorporeal varicella lesions in unvaccinated person. The incubation period for varicella is 14 to 16 days after exposure to a varicella or a herpes zoster rash, with a range of 10 to 21 days. A mild prodrome of fever and malaise may occur 1 to 2 days before rash onset, particularly in adults. In children, the rash is often the first sign of disease. A person with varicella is contagious from 1-2 days before rash onset until the lesions have crusted. It takes from 10-21 days after exposure to the virus for someone to develop varicella.
1 Herpes zoster (shingles) is a viral infection caused by the Varicella Zoster (chicken pox) virus but, unlike chickenpox, shingles is not contagious; 2  Herpes zoster is not caused by Herpes simplex Types 1 and 2 associated with cold sores and sexually transmitted genital herpes; Herpes zoster (shingles) is an inflammation of nerves and the surrounding area of skin caused by Varicella Zoster (chickenpox) virus infection. Shingles usually occurs when the dormant Varicella Zoster virus is reactivated in an adult, who has recovered from chickenpox as a child.
Course and Symptoms. The incubation period, the length of time from exposure to the virus to developing the condition, is two to three weeks. If someone in the house has chickenpox, the likelihood of someone else in the house catching it, who has not already had it, is as high as 90% - 9 out of 10. Having had chickenpox most people are immune and can not catch it again. However the virus particles remain dormant in your nervous system and can, at a later stage, cause shingles. As a result of the large numbers of people who catch chickenpox as children, 90% of adults are immune.
Chickenpox is a highly contagious illness caused by the varicella-zoster virus (VZV), a type of herpes virus. It is often a mild illness, characterized by an itchy rash on the face, scalp and trunk with pink spots and tiny fluid-filled blisters that dry and become scabs four to five days later. A vaccine to protect children against chickenpox was first licensed in 1995. Children who have never had chickenpox should routinely be administered two doses of varicella vaccine with the first dose at 12 to 15 months and the second dose at four to six years of age.
Chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus. You catch it by coming into contact with someone who is infected. Chickenpox is a very contagious infection. Around 90% of people who have not previously had chickenpox will become infected when they come into contact with the virus. Someone with chickenpox is most infectious from one to two days before the rash appears, until all the blisters have crusted over. This usually takes five to six days from the start of the rash.
Chickenpox, also known as varicella, is a highly contagious disease caused by the initial infection with varicella zoster virus (VZV). The disease results in a characteristic skin rash that forms small, itchy blisters, which eventually scab over. Chickenpox was not separated from smallpox until the late 19th century. In 1888 its connection to shingles was determined. The first documented use of the term chicken pox was in 1658. Various explanations have been suggested for the use of chicken in the name, one being the relative mildness of the disease.
The first symptoms of chickenpox usually develop about 14 to 16 days after contact with a person infected with the virus. Most people feel sick and have a fever, a decreased appetite, a headache, a cough, and a sore throat. The itchy chickenpox rash usually appears about 1 or 2 days after the first symptoms start. 
For some children, they get an outbreak of spots all at once on days 1 and 2 which scab over within a week but for some children the spots come in batches with new ones appearing everyday for the first 3 or 4 days so the total time for the last ones to scab over in those cases would definitely be more than 5 days. 