1 Slice zucchini in 1/8 to 1/4 inch slices. 2  Toss with melted butter and oregano. 3  Arrange in a single layer on a greased baking sheet. 4  Sprinkle with parmesan cheese. 5  Bake, uncovered, at 350 degrees F for 35-40 minutes. 6  Season to taste with salt and pepper. Directions. 1  Slice zucchini in 1/8 to 1/4 inch slices. 2  Toss with melted butter and oregano. 3  Arrange in a single layer on a greased baking sheet. 4  Sprinkle with parmesan cheese.
1 Place the zucchini halves into a baking dish, and cover tightly with foil. 2  Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes, remove from oven, and remove the foil. 3  Sprinkle 1/2 cup of shredded mozzarella cheese over each zucchini half. 1 Lightly stuff both halves of the zucchini with the meat mixture. 2  Place the zucchini halves into a baking dish, and cover tightly with foil. 3  Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes, remove from oven, and remove the foil. 4
Photo Credit Jocelyn Vodnik/Demand Media. Place the zucchini in an oven preheated to 375 degrees Fahrenheit for about 30 minutes, or until the squash is tender when you poke it with a fork. Step 6. Photo Credit Jocelyn Vodnik/Demand Media. Place the zucchini in an oven preheated to 375 degrees Fahrenheit for about 30 minutes, or until the squash is tender when you poke it with a fork. Don't overcook the zucchini, as overcooking results in loss of flavor and nutrients.
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 450. 2  Grease roasting pan with olive oil. 3  Chop zucchini and yellow squash and put into large bowl. 4  Drizzle olive oil over squash. 5  Pour squash into roasting pan and spread it out until it evenly covers the pan. 6  Bake 15 to 20 minutes, stirring once until cooked through. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 450. 2  Grease roasting pan with olive oil. 3  Chop zucchini and yellow squash and put into large bowl. 4  Drizzle olive oil over squash. 5  Mix with a large spoon until squash is evenly coated.
1 Preheat oven to 450°F. Make sure there is a rack on the top rack spot in the oven. Place the zucchini and garlic in a bowl and toss with olive oil. Spread the zucchini out onto a foil or silicone-lined roasting pan, skin side down. Sprinkle with salt (1/4 to 1/2 a teaspoon). 2 Roast the zucchini for 8-15 minutes, or until it begins to brown. (Start checking at about 7 minutes and keep checking every few minutes.) Once the zucchini has started to brown at the edges, remove it from the oven and place the zucchini in a bowl. Gently mix in the herbs and salt and pepper to taste. 
Preheat oven to ... paper. Place sliced zucchini in a bowl ... oil over the slices. In a ... into each slice. Bake for 22-28 min ... sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Arrange zucchini in 8 x ... Sprinkle with parsley; drizzle with butter. Bake until golden brown, 25 to 30 minutes. 4 to 6 servings.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Coat a baking sheet with cooking spray. Slice the zucchini into 1/4-inch thick rounds. In a medium bowl, toss the zucchini with the oil. In a small bowl, combine the Parmesan, bread crumbs, salt, and a few turns of pepper. Directions. 
Again, the emphasis is added on lightly. Bake the zucchini slices in a 225 degree F oven for about 40 minutes. Flip the zucchini slices, coat with oil and season with salt. Cook for about another 40 minutes. The zucchini slices should be lightly browned. 
1 In a small bowl, combine Parmesan, thyme, oregano, basil, garlic powder, salt and pepper, to taste. 2  Place zucchini onto prepared baking sheet. 3  Drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle with Parmesan mixture. 4  Place into oven and bake until tender, about 15 minutes. 1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat a cooling rack with nonstick spray and place on a baking sheet; set aside. 2  In a small bowl, combine Parmesan, thyme, oregano, basil, garlic powder, salt and pepper, to taste. 3