An IUD is a tiny, T-shaped polyethylene device that is wrapped in copper, or contains hormones. It inserted by a doctor directly into the uterus without sedation or anesthesia although some women may feel faint, nauseated or dizzy for a few minutes during, or immediately after, placement.
Copper T IUD Side Effects. The Copper T is the most common and widely used intra-uterine device used by many women worldwide. it is a T-shaped IUD and possesses copper in order to kill the sperms and prevent fertilization. Copper T is safe and the process of inserting it into the uterus is the same as the rest.
Most common IUD side effect in cramping and heavy menstrual bleeding. A copper IUD. IUD side effects can include minor to severe acne. Some women with IUDs may experience abnormal vaginal discharge. Although an IUD may prevent pregnancy, condoms should be worn to prevent sexually transmitted disease.
1 Copper IUD. 2  The most commonly used IUD is the copper IUD (such as Paragard). 3  Copper wire is wound around the stem of the T-shaped IUD. 4  The copper IUD can stay in place for up to 10 years and is a highly effective form of contraception.
1 The most commonly used IUD is the copper IUD (such as Paragard). 2  Copper wire is wound around the stem of the T-shaped IUD. 3  The copper IUD can stay in place for up to 10 years and is a highly effective form of contraception.
The ParaGard Intrauterine Device (IUD) Copper T 380A is a small, T-shaped contraceptive device, about 1-1/4 inches wide by 1-3/8 inches long, made of flexible plastic and wrapped in copper.
While the copper IUD is a safe form of birth control, side effects are possible -- such as irregular bleeding, infection or displacement of the device.
The most common side effects of ParaGard ® are heavier, longer periods and spotting between periods; most of these side effects diminish after 2-3 months. However, if your menstrual flow continues to be heavy or long, or spotting continues, contact your healthcare provider.
Other want to settle for ordinary copper IUD since other IUDs can be costly. The effect and the reliability is still the same as the rest. Upon insertion of the copper IUD side effects will be felt like abdominal cramping and pain in the lower back area. The spotting in between cycle is still present.