The non-geocentric model of the Universe was proposed by the Pythagorean philosopher Philolaus (d. 390 BC). According to Philolaus, there was at the center of the Universe a central fire around which the Earth, Sun, Moon and Planets revolved in uniform circular motion. In the 16th century, Nicolaus Copernicus 's De revolutionibus presented a full discussion of a heliocentric model of the universe in much the same way as Ptolemy 's Almagest had presented his geocentric model in the 2nd century.
Answers. Best Answer: Geocentric theory is just the belief that the earth is at the center of the universe. This was a common belief throughout the world until the publications of Ptolemy and Newton introduced a better model. 
Copernicus proposed a heliocentric model of the solar system – a model where everything orbited around the Sun. Today, with advancements in science and technology, the geocentric model seems preposterous. Simple tools, such as the telescope – which helped convince Galileo that the Earth was not the center of the universe – can prove that ancient theory incorrect. You might want to check out one article on the history of the geocentric model and one regarding the geocentric theory. Here are links to two other articles from Universe Today on what the center of the universe is and Galileo one of the advocates of the heliocentric model.
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the Earth and planets revolve around the Sun at the center of the Solar System. In the 16th century, Nicolaus Copernicus 's De revolutionibus presented a full discussion of a heliocentric model of the universe in much the same way as Ptolemy 's Almagest had presented his geocentric model in the 2nd century.
Copernican heliocentrism is the name given to the astronomical model developed by Nicolaus Copernicus and published in 1543. It positioned the Sun near the center of the Universe, motionless, with Earth and the other planets rotating around it in circular paths modified by epicycles and at uniform speeds. The Copernican model departed from the Ptolemaic system that prevailed in Western culture for centuries, placing Earth at the center of the Universe, and is often regarded as the launching point to modern astronomy and the Scientific Revolution.
Nicolaus Copernicus was a Polish astronomer who put forth the theory that the Sun is at rest near the center of the Universe, and that the Earth, spinning on its axis once daily, revolves annually around the Sun. This is called the heliocentric, or Sun-centered, system. In 1504, Copernicus began the research that culminated in his heliocentric theory. He had already returned to Poland, taking a position at the Collegiate Church of the Holy Cross in Breslau, Silesia (now Wroclaw, Poland).
The geocentric model, also known as the Ptolemaic system, is a theory that was developed by philosophers in Ancient Greece and was named after the philosopher Claudius Ptolemy who lived circa 90 to 168 A.D. It was developed to explain how the planets, the Sun, and even the stars orbit around the Earth. You might want to check out one article on the history of the geocentric model and one regarding the geocentric theory. Here are links to two other articles from Universe Today on what the center of the universe is and Galileo one of the advocates of the heliocentric model.
Nicolaus Copernicus was the astronomer that came up with the idea This is a very common misconception. The one who first came up with the idea and even presented a model of … the Heliocentric view of the universe was Aristarchus, NOT Copernicus. 1 person found this useful. Answered. In the heliocentric model, the sun is at the center of our solar system and the earth is the third planet that orbits it. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history.
After 1,400 years, Copernicus was the first to propose a theory which differed from Ptolemy's geocentric system, according to which the earth is at rest in the center with the rest of the planets revolving around it. T he word helios in Greek means sun.. Heliocentric means that the sun is at the center. A heliocentric system is one in which the planets revolve around a fixed sun. Thus Mercury, Venus, the Earth, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn all revolve around the sun.