About Jasper-History and Introduction. Jasper is one of the many gemstone varieties of quartz available today. It is an opaque and impure variety of silicon dioxide (SiO2). The name 'jasper' is derived from the Greek word for 'spotted stone', referring to its typical multicolored, striped, spotted or flamed appearance. Jasper can form in virtually any color. Jasper is a variety of quartz with a chemical composition composed primarily of silicon dioxide. Up to 20% percent of fine dense jasper can be composed of foreign materials, typically hematite, pyrolusite, clay or calcite.
Thank you! Answer: The meaning of jasper stone is in the essence of its energy. Jasper is a very nourishing, warm and protective stone no matter what colour you find the jasper in-be it yellow, green, blue, purple or the deep earthy red. Jasper often has stripes or bands that amplify the healing and earthy energy of this stone. You can also find many feng shui home decor cures in jasper, from Buddha to elephants, turtles and more. Jasper has a special place in many feng shui cures because it is one of the main stones for period 8 feng shui.
Jasper, an aggregate of microquartz and/or chalcedony and other mineral phases, is an opaque, impure variety of silica, usually red, yellow, brown or green in color; and rarely blue. It can be highly polished and is used for vases, seals, and snuff boxes. The specific gravity of jasper is typically 2.5 to 2.9. Along with heliotrope (bloodstone) , jasper (green with red spots) is one of the traditional birthstones for March.
The common red color is due to iron(III) inclusions. The mineral aggregate breaks with a smooth surface and is used for ornamentation or as a gemstone. It can be highly polished and is used for vases, seals, and snuff boxes. The specific gravity of jasper is typically 2.5 to 2.9. Along with heliotrope (bloodstone) , jasper (green with red spots) is one of the traditional birthstones for March.
The Gemstone Jasper. Jasper is an opaque variety of Chalcedony, and is usually associated with brown, yellow, or reddish colors, but may be used to describe other opaque colors of Chalcedony such as dark or mottled green, orange, and black. Jasper is almost always multicolored, with unique color patterns and habits
1 Black Jasper, or Basanite, is a flinty form, one of the rarer Jaspers. 2  It empowers supreme physical and mental efforts, and is highly shielding against curses, threats, and danger in high risk occupations. 3  In polished form, it is an excellent scrying stone for discerning what is hidden. Jasper is a dense, opaque, microcrystalline variety of Quartz. Fibrous and grainy varieties of Quartz are often grouped together and referred to as Chalcedony, though Jasper’s microcrystals are laid out in large, sugar-like grains rather than the fibrous layers of Chalcedony or Agate.
Jasper is an opaque, impure variety of silica, usually red, yellow, brown, green or blue in color. The color stems from the mineral content of the original sediments or ash. Patterns arise during the consolidation process forming flow and depositional patterns. Jasper can be highly polished. The name jasper means spotted or speckled stone. Jasper is known to have been a favorite gem in the ancient world; its name can be traced back in Hebrew, Assyrian, Persian, Greek and Latin. The classification and naming of jasper presents an enormous challenge. 
Jasper Facts, Information and Description. Jasper is one of the birth stones listed for the Sun Sign of Virgo. It is also the Mystical birthstone for the month of October. See the birthstone tables for additional references to this stone. Jasper is an opaque and fine grained variety of Chalcedony
1 Agate Jasper-Opaque multicolored Jasper, or Jasper with banding; may also refer to a single stone with a combination of both Agate and Jasper. 2  Biggs Jasper-Jasper from Biggs Junction, Oregon, with varying light and dark color brown bands and pretty formations. Jasper is an opaque variety of Chalcedony, and is usually associated with brown, yellow, or reddish colors, but may be used to describe other opaque colors of Chalcedony such as dark or mottled green, orange, and black.