Reperformance is the auditor's independent execution of procedures or controls that were originally performed as part of the entity's internal control, either manually or through the use of CAATs, for example, reperforming the aging of accounts receivable. Audit evidence, which is cumulative in nature, includes audit evidence obtained from audit procedures performed during the course of the audit and may include audit evidence obtained from other sources, such as previous audits and a firm's quality control procedures for client acceptance and continuance.
The term is used by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The TDRA is used to determine the scope and required evidence to support management's testing of its internal controls under SOX404. 
Substantive procedures (or substantive tests) are those activities performed by the auditor to detect material misstatement or fraud at the assertion level. The different assertions of balances are: 1  existence, 2  rights and obligations, 3  valuation & allocation, and. 4  completeness. 
Trace. instruction normally associated w/ documentation or reperformance. instruction should state what the auditor is tracing and where it is being traced from and to. Often, an audit procedure that includes the term trace will also include a 2nd instruction like compare or recalculate-documentation/reperformance. 
The purpose of audit tests. The purpose of audit tests, or audit procedures, is to allow the auditor to collect sufficient appropriate audit evidence to be able to conclude with reasonable assurance that the financial statements (FS) are free of material misstatement. Each of these audit tests are testing a control or control procedure. They are therefore tests of control. These tests are not investigating the receivables balance in the SOFP. I repeat, a test of control tests controls, not amounts in the FS.
II. Types of Audit Evidence Physical examination Confirmations Documentation Analytical Procedures Inquiries of the Client Reperformance Observation A. Physical Examination Inspection or count by the auditor of a tangible asset. Different from examining documentation is that the asset has inherent value. The direction of testing must be from the recorded item to the supporting document. Tests existence or occurrence 3. Document Tracing The primary test for unrecorded items and therefore tests the completeness assertion. The direction of testing must be from the supporting document to the recorded item.
Reperformance is a form of audit evidence. Reperformance is the auditor's independent execution of procedures or controls that were originally performed as part of the entity's internal control, either manually or through the use of CAATs (computer-assisted audit techniques). Back to Letter R.
The process can compare two or more devices or programs in terms of parameters such as speed, data transfer rate, bandwidth, throughput, efficiency or reliability. Performance testing can also be used as a diagnostic aid in locating communications bottleneck s. Software testing fundamentals: Performance testing: Software performance testing is crucial to software development and very easy to mess up. These tips and expert opinions illustrate how to conduct performance tests effectively
Performance testing is the process of determining the speed or effectiveness of a computer, network, software program or device. Software testing fundamentals: Performance testing: Software performance testing is crucial to software development and very easy to mess up. These tips and expert opinions illustrate how to conduct performance tests effectively