Origin of the name Lauren: English cognate of the French Laurence, a feminine form of Laurent, which is derived from the Latin Laurentius (man from Laurentum, a town in Latium). Personal experiences with the name Lauren: | Edit. My name is Lauren and I pronounce it LAW-REN. I live in England and there are some of my friends with the same name as me! I find that senior citizens tend to pronounce my name wrong. I like it as it is like the laurel plant and I personally love nature.
Laurentum was an ancient Roman city of Latium situated between Ostia and Lavinium, on the west coast of the Italian Peninsula southwest of Rome. Roman writers regarded it as the original capital of the Latins, before Lavinium assumed that role after the death of King Latinus. In historical times, Laurentum was united with Lavinium, and the name Lauro-Lavinium is sometimes used to refer to both. Under the Empire, Laurentum was the site of an imperial villa. Pliny the Younger also had a villa in the area. Laurentius (feminine Laurentia), meaning someone from Laurentum or The one who wears a laurel wreath , was a common Roman given name.
Laurent is a French masculine given name of Latin origin. It is used in France, Canada, and other French-speaking countries. The name was derived from the Roman surname Laurentius, which meant from Laurentum. Laurentum was an ancient Roman city of Latium situated between Ostia and Lavinium, on the west coast of the Italian peninsula southwest of Rome.
Lauren /lau-ren/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less widely as boys' name Lauren) is pronounced LAWR-en. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Lauren is the bay, or laurel plant. Feminine of Lawrence or variant of Laura. The earliest feminine form of the name was Laurentia, dating from the time of the early Romans. The name was first made popular by Lauren Bacall in the 1940s. The fashion designer Ralph Lauren has given the name fashionable associations.
Latin Meaning: The name Laurent is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Laurent is: Laurel. French Meaning: The name Laurent is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Laurent is: From the place of the laurel trees. 
Laurent is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Lau-rent. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6844 in baby name popularity for boys with 12 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. 
A French accent makes almost everything sound better, especially when attached to a Twilight vampire. Laurent also has a high-style feel via designer Yves St-Laurent. Laurent de Brunhoff is the French author-illustrator who continued his father Jean 's series of Babar books. 
Latin Meaning: The name Lauren is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lauren is: Of Laurentum. From the place of the laurel leaves. Can also be interpreted as the English version of the Irish name Lorcan: Fierce. American Meaning: The name Lauren is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lauren is: Of Laurentum. From the place of the laurel leaves. Can also be interpreted as the English version of the Irish name Lorcan: Fierce.
Laurent /lau-rent/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Laurent's name origin is Latin, and Laurent means from Laurentum. Laurent is a French form of Lawrence (Latin). Laurant is a common surname. Laurent is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#5670 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census).