Market research analysts typically need a bachelor’s degree in market research or a related field. Many have degrees in fields such as statistics, math, and computer science. Others have backgrounds in business administration, the social sciences, or communications. Several schools offer graduate programs in marketing research, but many analysts complete degrees in other fields, such as statistics and marketing, and/or earn a Master of Business Administration (MBA). A master’s degree is often required for leadership positions or positions that perform more technical research.
1 Directly out of college: Once you’ve earned a bachelor’s degree in information systems, business, accounting, human resources, or any number of related fields, a good next step to secure an entry-level business analyst job is enrolling in a business analysis certificate program. Becoming a business analyst means launching a career of potential opportunity on the leading edge of innovation. Business analyst certification and training can provide a competitive advantage, along with the skills and knowledge you’ll need to land a business analyst job.
Career Options. Students who earn a bachelor's degree or master's degree in business administration, finance, accounting or a closely related field may qualify for work as business analysts. Three common types of business analysis positions are profiled in detail below. Educational Requirements for a Business Analyst. Bachelor's degree programs in finance, accounting or business administration may provide training for college students who want to become business analysts.
The potential business analyst starts with a bachelor’s degree in business or a related field such as finance or accounting. Bachelor's degree programs offer courses in investment management, taxation, basic cost accounting, foundational mathematics, statistics or econometrics, according to the Education Portal website. A business analyst consults with companies to initiate changes that enhance the company’s financial success. Once hired, a business analyst gathers information about a company by observing the day-to-day routines of the employees, looking at the company finances and reading company documents.
The degree is designed for you if you are working in a business or IT field and you need a bachelor’s degree to begin your business analysis career, or you are a business analysis practitioner and desire advancement but need a bachelor’s degree. Contact an admissions counselor to help you determine if a Business Analysis and Management degree is right for you. Learn more about the skills, abilities, and typical work activities of a business analyst.
Most business analyst positions require candidates to have a bachelor's degree in business administration or related degree for entry-level positions. A typical bachelor's degree program in business administration includes coursework in communication, accounting, business, law, and other specialized classes. Graduates can look for entry-level positions in business management, human resources, information technology, or related fields to gain the work experience necessary for a business analyst position. Once the experience is attained, candidates can look for entry-level positions as a business analyst.
Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. A bachelor's degree is sufficient for entry-level employment as a business analyst with some firms. Programs in business administration or subjects that emphasize organization and systemic thinking-such as engineering, computer science or information systems-are relevant options. Career Information At a Glance. A business analyst gathers and organizes information about a business, uses it to identify problems or inefficiencies in business processes, and provides advice about possible solutions. The goal of the position is to enhance a company's profits and efficiency.
Education and Training Required for Business Systems Analysts. Most employers will look for at least a bachelor’s degree when hiring systems analysts, typically in a technical field such as computer science, information technology, engineering or information systems. 
Business Analyst Education Degree Requirements. Business analyst education degree requirements vary widely. For entry-level business analyst positions, you may only need a bachelor’s degree. Some employers require business analysts to have a master’s degree in business administration. 