Islamic law is expression of Allah 's will according to Islamic belief. Sharia law (Arabic: شريعة‎ šarīʿah, IPA: [ʃaˈriːʕa], legislation; also spelled shariah, sharīʿah; also known as Islamic law, قانون إسلامي qānūn ʾIslāmī) is the moral code and religious law of Islam Sharia is derived from two primary sources of Islamic law: the precepts set forth in the Quran, and the example set by the Islamic prophet Muhammad in the Sunnah.
Islamic law represents one of the world's great legal systems. Sharia, an Arabic word meaning the right path, refers to traditional Islamic law. The Sharia comes from the Koran, the sacred book of Islam, which Muslims consider the actual word of God. Like Judaic law, which influenced western legal systems, Islamic law originated as an important part of the religion. Sharia, an Arabic word meaning the right path, refers to traditional Islamic law.
Thus, Islamic law, the Sharia, became an integral part of the Muslim religion. Following Muhammad's death in A.D. 632, companions of Muhammad ruled Arabia for about 30 years. These political-religious rulers, called caliphs, continued to develop Islamic law with their own pronouncements and decisions. Like Judaic law, which influenced western legal systems, Islamic law originated as an important part of the religion. Sharia, an Arabic word meaning the right path, refers to traditional Islamic law. The Sharia comes from the Koran, the sacred book of Islam, which Muslims consider the actual word of God
Sharia law is the law of Islam. The Sharia (also spelled Sharia h or Shari'a) law is cast from the actions and words of Muhammad, which are called  Sunnah , and the Quran, which he authored. 
Sharia or sharia law (Arabic: شريعة ‎ (. [ʃaˈriːʕa]), is the basic Islamic legal system derived from the religious precepts of Islam, particularly the Quran and the Hadith. The term sharia comes from the Arabic language term sharīʿah, which means a body of moral and religious law derived from religious prophecy, as opposed to human legislation. However, Islamic law does not grant non-Muslim women the same legal rights as the few it did grant Muslim women. Sharia recognizes the basic inequality between master and women slave, between free women and slave women, between Believers and non-Believers, as well as their unequal rights.
Introduction. Sharia, or Islamic law, influences the legal code in most Muslim countries. A movement to allow sharia to govern personal status law, a set of regulations that pertain to marriage, divorce, inheritance, and custody, is even expanding into the West. In Muslim countries where Islam is the official religion, sharia is declared to be a source, or the source, of the law. Examples include Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Yemen, and the United Arab Emirates, where the governments derive their legitimacy from Islam.
Government Under God. In Muslim countries where Islam is the official religion, sharia is declared to be a source, or the source, of the law. Examples include Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Yemen, and the United Arab Emirates, where the governments derive their legitimacy from Islam.