Occupational health and safety officers plan, implement and monitor workplace health and safety programs for a variety of industries and organizations. They also are called health and safety specialists, health and safety inspectors and other titles. To become an occupational health and safety officer typically requires a four-year degree in occupational health, occupational safety, safety engineering or a related area.
Industrial hygienists (a type of specialist) examine the workplace for health hazards, such as exposure to lead, asbestos, noise, pesticides, or communicable diseases. Occupational health and safety specialists analyze many types of work environments and work procedures. Specialists inspect workplaces for adherence to regulations on safety, health, and the environment. They also design programs to prevent disease or injury to workers and damage to the environment. Occupational health and safety specialists work with engineers and physicians to control or fix potentially hazardous conditions or equipment. They also work closely with occupational health and safety technicians to collect and analyze data in the workplace.
There are plenty of opportunities out there for health and safety officers in all sorts of settings. You could work for the government, a district health board or a private company. The chances of you finding work are increasing due to a growing emphasis on health and safety in the workplace. Health and safety officers monitor workplace health and safety risks and hazards, and advise workers and managers on how to minimise or eliminate these risks and hazards. Some may also carry out nursing duties. They work very closely with government legislation to ensure that a workplace is safe for all staff.
M I D. Occupational health and safety officers visit places of employment to detect unsafe or unhealthy working conditions, and ensure compliance with laws and regulations governing workplace safety. Also Known As. 
Occupational safety and health (OSH) also commonly referred to as occupational health and safety (OHS) or workplace health and safety (WHS) is an area concerned with the safety, health and welfare of people engaged in work or employment. In the United States the term occupational health and safety is referred to as occupational health and occupational and non-occupational safety and includes safety for activities outside work. In common-law jurisdictions, employers have a common law duty to take reasonable care for the safety of their employees.
An occupational health and safety officer may design a safety program for bio-hazardous waste disposal. OSHA offers a number of consent forms that should be included in an employment packet when new employees are hired. Safety officers ensure workers are following health guidelines at hazardous work sites. The occupational health and safety officer serves as the liaison between the employer and OSHA. Most safety programs in place within a company are created by this person.
Once a safety plan has been created, the occupational health and safety officer is also in charge of creating or obtaining any forms related to the practice. OSHA provides several form templates with details on a variety of general safety practices, such as fire safety and workplace first aid. The occupational health and safety officer serves as the liaison between the employer and OSHA. Most safety programs in place within a company are created by this person.
Occupational health and safety technicians collect data on the safety and health conditions of the workplace. Technicians work with occupational health and safety specialists in conducting tests and measuring hazards to help prevent harm to workers, property, the environment, and the general public. Although all occupational health and safety technicians work to maintain the health of workers and the environment, their responsibilities vary by industry, workplace, and types of hazards affecting employees.
An occupational health and safety officer may give expert advice on how to identify dangerous working conditions. Employers might require their health and safety employees to have certifications from various organizations representing different fields. They also are called health and safety specialists, health and safety inspectors and other titles. To become an occupational health and safety officer typically requires a four-year degree in occupational health, occupational safety, safety engineering or a related area.
Safety officers are also called occupational health and safety specialists because they are in charge of creating and maintaining a workplace that offers a safe and productive environment for workers, and follows occupational federal, state and local government regulations. 