Adenocarcinoma is a type of cancer that forms in mucus-secreting glands throughout the body. It can occur in many different places in the body, and is most prevalent in the following cancer types: 1  Lung cancer: Non-small cell lung cancer accounts for 80 percent of lung cancers, and adenocarcinoma is the most common type. 1 Esophageal cancer: Cancer that forms in the glandular cells of the esophagus is known as adenocarcinoma. 2  This is the most common type of esophageal cancer. 3  Colorectal cancer: Cancer that develops in the intestinal gland cells that line the inside of the colon and/or rectum is an adenocarcinoma.
Adenocarcinoma is a cancer originating in glandular tissue. The tissues affected are part of a larger tissue category known as epithelial. Epithelial tissues line skin, glands, cavities of organs etc. This epithelium comes from the ectoderm, endoderm and mesoderm in the fetus. Since epithelium and glandular tissues are widely occurring in the body, adenocarcinoma can affect several organs. The leading cancer of the colon is adenocarcinoma, and adenocarcinomas are extremely common in the lungs. Other organs that may be affected by adenocarcinoma include: 1  the cervix. 2  pancreas. 3  prostate.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a small virus which infects humans and some other primate species. AAV is not currently known to cause disease. Replication of the virus can also vary in one cell type, depending on the cell's current cell cycle phase. The characteristic feature of the adeno-associated virus is a deficiency in replication and thus its inability to multiply in unaffected cells. The first factor that was described as providing successful generation of new AAV particles, was the adenovirus, from which the AAV name originated
1 Prostate cancer: Cancer that forms in the prostate gland is typically an adenocarcinoma, which makes up 99 percent of all prostate cancers. 1 Esophageal cancer: Cancer that forms in the glandular cells of the esophagus is known as adenocarcinoma. 2  This is the most common type of esophageal cancer. 3  Colorectal cancer: Cancer that develops in the intestinal gland cells that line the inside of the colon and/or rectum is an adenocarcinoma.
Adeno-: Prefix referring to a gland, as in adenoma and adenopathy. From the Greek aden meaning originally an acorn and later a gland in the form of an acorn. Before a vowel, adeno-becomes aden-, as in adenitis (inflammation of a gland). 
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a small virus that infects humans but does not cause disease. It is uniquely suited for gene therapy application – because it cannot replicate on its own, it is unlikely to spread within the body. 
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Adenocarcinoma is a type of cancer that may affect various organs. It is derived from the word “adeno” meaning 'pertaining to a gland' and “carcinoma” meaning cancer. Since epithelium and glandular tissues are widely occurring in the body, adenocarcinoma can affect several organs. The leading cancer of the colon is adenocarcinoma, and adenocarcinomas are extremely common in the lungs. Other organs that may be affected by adenocarcinoma include: 1  the cervix. 2  pancreas. 3  prostate.
1 Lung cancer: Non-small cell lung cancer accounts for 80 percent of lung cancers, and adenocarcinoma is the most common type. 2  Prostate cancer: Cancer that forms in the prostate gland is typically an adenocarcinoma, which makes up 99 percent of all prostate cancers. 1 Esophageal cancer: Cancer that forms in the glandular cells of the esophagus is known as adenocarcinoma. 2  This is the most common type of esophageal cancer. 3  Colorectal cancer: Cancer that develops in the intestinal gland cells that line the inside of the colon and/or rectum is an adenocarcinoma.