As atherosclerosis is the commonest cause of arteriosclerosis, the two terms are often used interchangeably. Arteriosclerotic heart disease (ASHD), also called coronary artery disease (CAD) or coronary heart disease (CHD), refers to arteriosclerosis of heart or coronary arteries. The most common form of arteriosclerosis is atherosclerosis, in which fat, cholesterol and other substances build up on the inner walls of arteries and form hard structures called plaques or atheromas, which can restrict blood flow.
Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. Plaque is made of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin (a clotting material in the blood). Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis. 
Hardening of the arteries, also called atherosclerosis, occurs when fat, cholesterol, and other substances build up in the walls of arteries. These deposits are called plaques. Definition. Hardening of the arteries, also called atherosclerosis, occurs when fat, cholesterol, and other substances build up in the walls of arteries. These deposits are called plaques. Over time, these plaques can block the arteries and cause problems throughout the body.
Atherosclerosis (also known as arteriosclerotic vascular disease or ASVD) is a specific form of arteriosclerosis in which an artery wall thickens as a result of invasion and accumulation of white blood cells (WBCs) (foam cell) and proliferation of intimal smooth muscle cell creating a fibrofatty plaque. Atherosclerosis is a chronic disease that remains asymptomatic for decades. Atherosclerotic lesions, or atherosclerotic plaques, are separated into two broad categories: Stable and unstable (also called vulnerable).
If blood flow to your heart muscle is reduced or blocked, you may have angina (chest pain or discomfort) or a heart attack. Plaque also can form in the heart's smallest arteries. This disease is called coronary microvascular disease (MVD). These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart. Plaque narrows the coronary arteries and reduces blood flow to your heart muscle. Plaque buildup also makes it more likely that blood clots will form in your arteries.
Atherosclerosis & Arteriosclerosis Atherosclerosis, occurs when arteries (vessels carrying oxygen-rich blood to the brain and other body parts) become clogged up by fatty substances (also called plaques or atheromas), such as cholesterol. 
Coronary Heart Disease. Coronary heart disease (CHD), also called coronary artery disease, occurs when plaque builds up in the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart. Plaque narrows the coronary arteries and reduces blood flow to your heart muscle. Plaque buildup also makes it more likely that blood clots will form in your arteries.
Posted on January 4, 2014 at 6:05 PM. Monckeberg's arteriosclerosis, also called medial calcific sclerosis, is a form of arteriosclerosis or vessel hardening, where calcium deposits form in the middle layer of the walls of medium sized vessels (the tunica media). It is often not clinical unless it is severe. 
Overview. Atherosclerosis is a narrowing of the arteries caused by a buildup of plaque. It is also called arteriosclerosis or hardening of the arteries. Arteries are the blood vessels that carry oxygen and nutrients from the heart to the rest of your body. As you get older, fat and cholesterol can collect in the arteries and form plaque. It is also important to know the symptoms of heart attack and stroke. Both of these problems can be caused by atherosclerosis and require immediate medical attention. Symptoms of a heart attack include: 1  chest pain or discomfort.