Well, not exactly. There are many different types of stars, from the tiny brown dwarfs to the red and blue supergiants. There are even more bizarre kinds of stars, like neutron stars and Wolf-Rayet stars. Let’s take a look at all the different types of stars there are. Red giant Betelgeuse. Red Dwarf Star. Red dwarf stars are the most common kind of stars in the Universe. These are main sequence stars but they have such low mass that they’re much cooler than stars like our Sun. They have another advantage.
Star Wars Top 6 Unique One of a Kind Lightsabers. I don't own the movie footage in this, Star Wars is owned by Lucasfilm, Fox, and Disney. 1  Film & Animation. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
UY Scuti as seen in visible light. Below is a list of the largest known stars by radius. The unit of measurement used is the radius of the Sun (approximately 695,500 kilometers, or 432,450 miles). The exact order of this list is not complete, nor is it perfectly defined: 1  There are sometimes high uncertainties in derived values and sizes; 
Most of the things you can see in the night sky are stars: a few thousand are visible to the unaided eye. A star is a hot ball of mostly hydrogen gas; the Sun is an example of a typical, ordinary star. 
To figure out luminosity from absolute magnitude, one must calculate that a difference of five on the absolute magnitude scale is equivalent to a factor of 100 on the luminosity scale — for instance, a star with an absolute magnitude of 1 is 100 times as luminous as a star with an absolute magnitude of 6. However, the brightness of a star depends on its composition and how far it is from the planet. Astronomers define star brightness in terms of apparent magnitude (how bright the star appears from Earth) and absolute magnitude (how bright the star appears at a standard distance of 32.6 light years, or 10 parsecs). Astronomers also measure luminosity — the amount of energy (light) that a star emits from its surface
When we think about the stars, the first thing that comes into our minds is the Sun. The truth of the matter is that there are very many types of stars. By taking a critical look into the heavens one will notice that there are a variety of stars up there. The following are all the different types of stars in the known universe. Main Sequence Stars – For a star to be born there must be nuclear fusion in its core. This is where star life begins and stars in this stage are known as sequence stars.
What's left is an ultradense object called a neutron star, a city-sized object that can pack the mass of the sun in a small space. There are sub-categories of Type II supernovas, classified based on their light curves. Type 1b and 1c supernovas also undergo core-collapse just as Type II supernovas do, but they have lost most of their outer hydrogen envelopes. In 2014, scientists detected the faint, hard-to-locate companion star to a Type 1b supernova.
How to use. Press and hold the ALT key and type the number 9733 or 9734 to make star symbol. Use unicode star symbols in a html document or copy paste the character. Example usage of star symbols as rating: ★★★★★. 