Since 1992, all colleges offering pharmacy programs in the United States have considered the Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) to be the required degree in order to become a pharmacist. Pharm.D. programs do not require a bachelor's degree for admission, though some undergraduate study is required. Many colleges and universities offer 2-year pre-pharmacy programs that don't award a degree but prepare students to enter the doctoral program. Pharmacists are required to earn a Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) before they can gain licensure. But in order to meet specific course requirements for entry into a Pharm.D. program, students must first complete either two years of undergraduate study or a bachelor's degree program.
Overview of Available Online Pharmacy Degrees. Pharmacists are required to complete a professional graduate-level doctoral Pharm. D. program. Applicants need to have completed at least two years of pre-pharmacy education, although some programs require completion of a bachelor's degree for admission. An online pharmacy degree prepares students for the various tasks related to the field, including developing medications, providing prescriptions, counseling and advising patients, researching drug interactions, and administering pharmacies and educational programs.
Becoming a pharmacist requires years of education and training to obtain the necessary knowledge, skills and certifications. Aspiring pharmacists can spend anywhere between six years (fast-track) to thirteen years completing pre-requisites, Pharm.D coursework, clinical rotations and national exams. Pharmacist Schools. The first step in learning how to become a pharmacist is completing two years undergraduate training followed by four years in a pharmacy program. The following search tool provides a way to explore the many schools with pharmacy degree programs.
A: If you want to become a pharmacist you need to have a doctor of Pharmacy degree. This degree will make you eligible for the North American Licensure Examination (NAPLEX). After you have earned a doctor of pharmacy degree and passed the NAPLEX you can become a pharmacist anywhere in the country. A: If you want to become a pharmacist you should enroll in a PharmD or doctorate of Pharmacy degree. College students who want begin a four year pharmacy program need to complete two years of undergraduate course work and pass the Pharmacy college admission test (PCAT).
A: If you want to be a pharmacist in U.S. you will need to have a doctorate of pharmacy degree. Students who have completed two years of college education and have passed the Pharmacy college admission test can begin their pharmacy program. This program in pharmacy will take 4-7 years to complete. A: If you want to become a pharmacist you should enroll in a PharmD or doctorate of Pharmacy degree. College students who want begin a four year pharmacy program need to complete two years of undergraduate course work and pass the Pharmacy college admission test (PCAT).
Prospective pharmacists are required to have a Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) degree, a postgraduate professional degree. In July 2012, there were 124 Doctor of Pharmacy programs fully accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE). 
2. Get a bachelor's degree. You will need to have a Bachelor of Science (BS) degree from a four-year institution to apply to pharmacy school. It is required that you complete at least two years of pre-pharmacy coursework during this time, including anatomy, biology, calculus, chemistry, physics, and sociology.
A: The healthcare degree in PharmD is a degree in pharmacology. It is the Doctorate of Pharmacy. PharmD is a 4 year degree program focusing on extensive theoretical concepts and practical applications for those concepts. Completion of the Doctor of Pharmacy is necessary to obtain the status of a licensed pharmacist. These include bachelors of pharmacy, doctoral of pharmacy and bachelors of science in pharmacy. These degrees cover several related topics and courses, which include chemistry, drug interaction, biostatistics, pathology, immunology, anatomy, pharmacy law, diagnosis of diseases, pharmacy management and physiology.
Pharmacy Degrees. Pharmacists fill and distribute prescription drugs to patients and customers, advise and educate individuals about their medication, work with physicians to make sure there is a thorough understanding of the medications, and research and work to develop new medications. 1 Master’s. 2  Online masters pharmacy degrees will familiarize you with drugs, laws, practices, and research methods that apply to pharmacology. 3  While a professional, doctoral degree is required to practice pharmacology, a master’s degree will qualify you for a career in pharmaceutical research or teaching.