Add 1 cup of vinegar to the water, then stir the liquid. Dampen a clean cotton rag with the solution. Wash the exterior of the fireplace with the rag, starting at the top so that any dripping vinegar runs off on the rocks below it. Clean the nooks between the rocks as well as possible. Scrub the interior of the fireplace with a nylon scrub brush if the soot won't respond to a simple cloth wash. Dampen the scrub brush in the vinegar solution. Clean the interior of the fireplace from the top down the same as you did the exterior.
My favorite use for vinegar is as a hair rinse. We wash hair with baking soda (1 tbs soda in 1 cup of water, pour over hair and scrub) then condition with vinegar (1 tbs vinegar in 1 cup of water, pour over hair and comb through with fingers). 4. Get Rid of the Stink in Your Garbage Disposal – Make ice cubes with vinegar (full strength), and then run them through the garbage disposal. 5. Remove Build Up from Faucets – Use a mixture of four parts vinegar to one part salt as a scrub for these faucet areas.
When the crystals are clean to your satisfaction, rinse and rinse and rinse them. If you have hard water in your area, it is smart to use distilled water for rinsing to prevent possible yellow staining. Whichever method you use be careful in the cleaning process, follow the instructions for all chemicals, and wear proper protection. 1  EASY METHOD. 2  Wash the geodes in plain water with a bit of laundry detergent or dish soap. 3  OXALIC ACID METHOD. 4  This method is more effective if there is iron staining in your geode. 5  General precautions to take when ...
Charlene, You can try using dish soap and water, and scrubbing the stone with a scrub brush. You can also try scrubbing the mortar with sugar water. Vinegar is acidic and can be used to clean mortar off of stone. Make a 1:10 mix of vinegar in water, spray the solution on the mortar and allow the vinegar water to sit for several minutes before scrubbing. 
Add about 1 tablespoon of Iron Out to a pint of warm water in a plastic bucket or container. Soak your crystal clusters in the Iron Out solution for 5-20 minutes, up to a maximum of 1-2 hours. When done, pour the liquid down the drain and thoroughly rinse your mineral specimens. If your quartz crystals are encrusted with calcite, barite, or lime carbonates, you can try cleaning them with ordinary household vinegar and washing ammonia. You'll want to soak them for 8-12 hours in full-strength vinegar.
Many people enjoy having rocks in their landscape, whether it’s boulders, flagstone paths or fine white marble mulch. Cleaning larger landscaping rocks doesn’t pose much of a problem. With a little hard work, you can clean even small landscape rock mulch should it start to look dirty or messy. Tips. 1  After washing the smaller rocks in a tub you may want to store them in another container or on a tarp until all the rocks are clean before replacing them. 2  You may want to consider replacing rock mulch with the natural products like woodchips or pine straw. 3  It is difficult to get stains like rust off rocks
1 After washing the smaller rocks in a tub you may want to store them in another container or on a tarp until all the rocks are clean before replacing them. 2  You may want to consider replacing rock mulch with the natural products like woodchips or pine straw. 3  It is difficult to get stains like rust off rocks. Tips. 1  After washing the smaller rocks in a tub you may want to store them in another container or on a tarp until all the rocks are clean before replacing them. 2  You may want to consider replacing rock mulch with the natural products like woodchips or pine straw.
5. Add plain distilled white vinegar to the water in the tank, roughly 1 cup for each 5 gallons (18.9 L) of water. NEVER ever use a household cleaner, detergent, or disinfecting agent like dish or hand soap, Lysol, Comet, etc, as the chemical residue will be almost impossible to fully remove. sponge, or toothbrush in place of the sponge. As said earlier, DO NOT USE ANY detergent (including dish detergent). something to clean tank with. treat for turtle. (optional). Reptisafe or something to remove chlorine, you can also let it sit for a day. Or use water from a bottle.