Stratified squamous epithelium is found in areas where layers of epithelial cells are likely to be sloughed off. Examples of simple squamous epithelium: 1  Endothelium-lines the circulatory system. 2  Mesothelium-lines the peritoneal (abdominal), pleural (lung) and pericardial (heart) cavites. 3  Alveolar epithelium. Together with an underlying layer of connective tissue, they form mucous membranes. Epithelium may also line the surface of internal organs. An epithelial cells is said to be polarised as either side of the cell differs in terms of structure and function.
Cardiac tissue is found in the heart. The types of tissues that make up your heart are cardiac muscle tissue, nerve tissue and blood tissue. The cardiac muscle tissue contract … s, making the heart pump. The nerve tissue brings messages that tell the heart how fast to beat. The blood tissue is carried from the heart to other organs of the body.
Structure [edit]. The epithelium is part of the intestinal mucosa layer. In the small intestine this takes the form of villi but these are not present in the colon. In both parts of the mammalian intestine, the mucosa is covered by a single layer of epithelial cells that is renewed every 4–5 days. 
This layer of tissue helps to keep all of the organs separate and in place. Epithelial tissue also protects the organs. This tissue is not only in the stomach, but it can also be found surrounding the body's organs, in the outer layer of the skin, and on the inside of the mouth. 
Squamous means scale-like. simple squamous epithelium is a single layer of flat scale-shaped cells. Both the endothelial lining of blood vessels and the mesothelial lining of the body cavities are simple squamous epithelium. Try to identify the simple squamous epithelia in these pictures. Columnar. This picture shows columnar cells from the stomach. A few of the cells are outlined, to help you identify them. This is a single layer of cells, and the cells are all tall columnar. Tall columnar epithelium lines the ducts of many exocrine glands.
Epithelium (epi- + thele + -ium) is one of the four basic types of animal tissue. The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal
Confidence votes 131. All four tissue types are present in the stomach. The stomach is lined with EPITHELIAL type cells (simple columnar). Beneath the epithelial cells there is CONNECTIVE type tissue. Beneath this you will find (smooth) MUSCLE cells. There is also NERVOUS type tissue present in the wall of the stomach (myenteric and submucosal plexus). The types of tissues that make up your heart are cardiac muscle tissue, nerve tissue and blood tissue. The cardiac muscle tissue contract … s, making the heart pump. The nerve tissue brings messages that tell the heart how fast to beat. The blood tissue is carried from the heart to other organs of the body.
The stomach is one of the organs that form the digestive system. The stomach contains various tissues, and each tissue is made of a particular type of cell. In order of increasing size and complexity: cells → tissues → organ (the stomach) → organ system (the digestive system). Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  Back. 5  Next. 
There are several different types of epithelial tissue, all highly specialised to their function and location in the body. 1  Squamous epithelium-flattened, egg-shaped nucleus. 2  Cuboidal epithelium-cube-shaped, spherical nucleus. 3  Columnar epithelium-taller-then-wide, nucleus toward base. Together with an underlying layer of connective tissue, they form mucous membranes. Epithelium may also line the surface of internal organs. An epithelial cells is said to be polarised as either side of the cell differs in terms of structure and function.
The epithelium is a layer of cells-epithelial cells. They are highly specialised for selective secretion and absorption of ions and molecules. Epithelial cells line any surface that comes into contact with the external environment. So-the airways, the gut, the urinary tract, the cornea etc. Together with an underlying layer of connective tissue, they form mucous membranes. Epithelium may also line the surface of internal organs. An epithelial cells is said to be polarised as either side of the cell differs in terms of structure and function.