Choose your cleaner. I use CRC Mass Air Flow sensor Cleaner!! How convenient is that!! You may also use brake parts cleaner.Brake parts cleaner leaves no residue which means it's safe to use on your MAF. 
19. I've used brake cleaner a number of times on different MAFs, but you need the non-chlorinated kind if you are going to use it. I wouldn't put carb cleaner on it. If you can find MAF cleaner or electronics cleaner, but if not the non-chl brake cleaner will work just fine. I would not recommend touch the wire at all. 
How to clean mass air flow sensor (MAF) of a Ford Mondeo with brake cleaner. Method applicable to all the vehicles. clean mass air flow sensor ford mondeo. 
Another Method. There is another way to clean MAF sensor. You can use a brake or carb cleaner on the wires of the sensor. Just squirt a few drops of the cleaner on these surfaces and before long, the wires will look squeaky clean. The cleaner of course, evaporates. Do not use brake cleaner on the element of a Mass Airflow Sensor. It is extremely harmful and will corrode the element with enough use. The MAF Cleaner not only leaves no residue, which could interfere with accurate readings, but also is not corrosive enough to damage the elements used by manufactures.
Best Answer: NO NO NO. Use MAF sensor cleaner. As for the CEL light, it generally is emissions related or a misfire. Also, the ASR light, is the Anti-Spin-Regulation light, better known as anti-spin, which is linked to the ABS brake system.
DO NOT USE CARB CLEANER on a Mass Airflow sensor! How-to: Clean MAF (Mass Air Flow sensor) - remove the MAF from the car-spray some electrical contact cleaner (something … that leaves NO residue) through the sampling tube over the wires. I recommend using a MASS AIR FLOW cleaner from your local autoparts store. Do NOT use plain old carb cleaner or the like-ask at the parts store for the right kind of cleaner to use in order to avoid damaging this very expensive sensor. CRC makes a product specificly for your MAF sensor. DO NOT USE ANYTHING ELSE