• 1 pinch cream of tartar. • 2 tablespoons sugar. Place egg whites and cream of tartar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Beat egg whites until soft peaks form and then gradually add sugar and continue beating until stiff peaks form, approximately 1 to 2 minutes. Use to top lemon filling. 
Make decorative peaks with the back of the spoon. Bake the pie until the meringue peaks brown, 5 to 7 minutes. Cool the pie on a rack away from drafts to prevent the meringue from shrinking. Let stand at least 1 hour before serving. To slice, rinse a sharp, thin-bladed knife in hot water and shake off the excess before making each cut. 
Step 4: Add sugar gradually. Add the sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, while beating on high speed. The sugar must be added gradually as the egg whites are beaten to stiff peaks (tips stand straight). Adding the sugar too quickly will knock air out of the egg whites and make them difficult to mix thoroughly. 
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes or until meringue is golden. Remove from oven and cool on a wire rack. Make sure pie is cooled completely before slicing. Place egg whites and cream of tartar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Beat egg whites until soft peaks form and then gradually add sugar and continue beating until stiff peaks form, approximately 1 to 2 minutes. Use to top lemon filling. Yield: topping for 1 (9-inch) pie.
Report Abuse. You don't cook them, you bake them...... Preheat oven to 200 degrees F (105 degrees C) Bake the meringues for approximately 1 1/2 to 1 3/4 hours, rotating the baking sheet from front to back (about half way through) to ensure even baking. The meringues are done when they are pale in color and fairly crisp. 
Baking Meringue: Meringues will become more done if you bake them at a lower temperature for a longer time. Bake the meringue at 325 degrees F. for 20 to 30 minutes or until a cooking thermometer registers 160 degrees F. Remember a hot filling is important. This is the type of cooking and meat thermometer that I prefer and use in my cooking. Meringue recipes work better with eggs that are at least 3 or 4 days old. Thin, older egg whites whip more easily to a higher volume than thick, fresh egg whites.
Best Answer: If you want crispy meringues, preheat your oven to 150 degrees celsius, and as soon as you put your meringue into the oven, turn your temperature down to 100 degrees celsius. Let it cook for at least 2 hours. After two hours, turn the oven off, but leave the meringues in the oven until the oven has competely cooled down, or leave the meringues overnight. For a soft-centered meringue like a pavlova, preheat your oven to 150 degrees celsius. As soon as the meringue goes into the oven, turn the temperature down to 100 degrees celsius. Bake for 1 to 1.5 hours depending on size of meringue (approx. 4 inch diameter = 1 hour; 8 inch diameter = 1.5 hours). 
In this recipe, both the meringue and the filling should be at room temperature. Bake the pie until the meringue peaks brown, 5 to 7 minutes. Cool the pie on a rack away from drafts to prevent the meringue from shrinking. Let stand at least 1 hour before serving. 
Egg White Meringue Recipe-How To Make Perfect Meringue Whipping egg whites are much like blowing air into a balloon. Beating or whisking causes the protein in the egg whites to unfold, forming films that trap the air bubbles, and the sugar stiffens the foam. Meringue recipes work better with eggs that are at least 3 or 4 days old. Thin, older egg whites whip more easily to a higher volume than thick, fresh egg whites.