Cassia, scientifically known as cinnamomum cassia, is just as real. Most of the world's Ceylon cinnamon comes from Sri Lanka. Greg Elms via Getty Images. By most we mean up to 80-90 percent. Cassia cinnamon mainly comes from Indonesia, which is responsible for about two thirds of the crop. The rest comes from China, Vietnam and Burma. Cinnamon has lots of beauty benefits. 
The English word cinnamon and cassia, attested in English since the 15th century, derives from the Greek κιννάμωμον kinnamōmon (kinnámōmon later), kinnamon Kínnamon via latin And medieval french. Intermediate Forms the greek in turn was borrowed From a, phoenician word which would have been akin to The related. hebrew qinnamon Malobathrum from Egypt (Dioscorides I, 63) was based on beef fat and contained cinnamon, as well; one pound cost 300 denarii. The Roman poet Martial (VI, 55) made fun of Romans who drip unguents, smell of cassia and cinnamon taken from a bird's nest, and look down on a man who does not smell at all.
Cassia cinnamon is a plant. People use the bark and flower for medicine. Cassia cinnamon is used for many conditions, but so far science has not confirmed that it is effective for any of them. Research does show, however, that it is probably not effective for lowering blood sugar in type 1 or type 2 diabetes. In addition to diabetes, Cassia cinnamon is used for gas (flatulence), muscle and stomach spasms, preventing nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, infections, the common cold, and loss of appetite.
Cinnamon is the inner bark of a tropical evergreen tree. Cinnamon is the bark of a tree. The most common cinnamon sold in North America is from the Cassia, it is generally sweeter and more aromatic than true cinnamon but has an astringent edge. True Cinnamon (Ceylon) is from Sri Lanka and is the bark of an evergreen tree related to the bay laurel.
Unlike Ceylon cinnamon, harvesters use whole branches and entire trees of cassia cinnamon, rather than smaller shoots. The branches are cut, and the bark is peeled away. Farmers then sell the bark in large, unprocessed pieces or work with a processor to remove the thicker, outer bark. Growing. Farmers usually allow cassia cinnamon trees to reach the height of 10 to 15 meters tall before harvesting begins. This tree produces large, thick leaves, as well as buds, which are harvested, dried, and sold as a spice along with the bark.
Cassia cinnamon comes from a different plant and belongs to one of three varieties: Cinnamomum cassia, Cinnamomum aromaticaum, Cinnamomum burmannii. Cassia is native to Southeast Asia and can be found most often in Indonesia, Vietnam, and China. Growing. Farmers usually allow cassia cinnamon trees to reach the height of 10 to 15 meters tall before harvesting begins. This tree produces large, thick leaves, as well as buds, which are harvested, dried, and sold as a spice along with the bark.
Where Does Cinnamon Come From. Cinnamon spice comes from the bark of the cinnamon tree, Cinnamomum zeylanicum, which is native to Sri Lanka (Ceylon). Today, cinnamon is grown in many tropical areas, including Java, Burma, Borneo and throughout South America. Today, the cinnamon found on the spice shelves may either be pure cinnamon or a mixture of cinnamon and cassia. Cassia comes from similar trees but has a stronger flavor. Many commercial companies mix true cinnamon with cassia to enhance the flavor for cooking and baking.
Cinnamon is the bark of a tree. The most common cinnamon sold in North America is from the Cassia, it is generally sweeter and more aromatic than true cinnamon but has a … n astringent edge. True Cinnamon (Ceylon) is from Sri Lanka and is the bark of an evergreen tree related to the bay laurel. The most common cinnamon sold in North America is from the Cassia, it is generally sweeter and more aromatic than true cinnamon but has a
The English word cinnamon and cassia, attested in English since the 15th century, derives from the Greek κιννάμωμον kinnamōmon (kinnámōmon later), kinnamon Kínnamon via latin And medieval french. intermediate forms Malobathrum from Egypt (Dioscorides I, 63) was based on beef fat and contained cinnamon, as well; one pound cost 300 denarii. The Roman poet Martial (VI, 55) made fun of Romans who drip unguents, smell of cassia and cinnamon taken from a bird's nest, and look down on a man who does not smell at all.
A great deal of cassia cinnamon comes from Indonesia, although the tree is also grown in Vietnam, China and Burma [sources: Britannica: Cinnamon, Britannica: Cassia ]. When a cinnamon tree is around two years old, cultivators coppice, or cut back, the plant to the size of a stump and cover it with soil. 