Vetiver oil is the basis of the Indian perfume ‘Majmua’ and is the major ingredient in some 36% of all western perfumes (e.g. Caleche, Chanel No. 5, Dioressence, Parure, Opium) and 20% of all men’s fragrances. The other floret is pedicelled and staminate. Java vetiver is non flowering type has broader leaves (1.1 mm), medium thick stems, bushy growth bearing flowers with high pollen sterility; the plants give out more branching roots with higher oil content and the oil is dextro-rotatory in nature.
Toggle. Vetiver vétiver De. Guerlain a, raw, earthy masculine scent that has stood the test of. Time'it s the reference, vetiver the one they all look back, to a creation so—awesome And i'don t mean that in some metaphorical; way spray it on your, arm and this stuff inspires—awe that'it s humbled every maker. since 
Vetiver oil is obtained by steam distillation of roots of vetiver (Vetiveria zizanioides). The oil is one of the finest oriental perfumes with a persistent fragrance. The other floret is pedicelled and staminate. Java vetiver is non flowering type has broader leaves (1.1 mm), medium thick stems, bushy growth bearing flowers with high pollen sterility; the plants give out more branching roots with higher oil content and the oil is dextro-rotatory in nature.
Sycomore is right and falls in the easy to wear, beautiful, can’t screw up how you smell today category. The vetiver bargain of this century is Lalique Encre Noir. A great vetiver perfume at any price, but when you can pick up a 100 ml bottle for under $50, that’s a sweet spot you don’t find often in perfume. Peppery woodsy vetiver, it is a vetiver bonanza – not too rough, not too smooth. 
Photo Source: treesftf. Vetiver essential oil (Vetiveria zizanioides) is not a widely-known oil, even though its use dates back centuries. It's said to affect the nervous system, endocrine (hormone) system, skin and emotions. 
The Reference Vetiver... Jean-Paul Guerlain's Vetiver was one of the the first fragrances composed primarily around Vetiver, and it has become a classic ever since. For me, when I first opened this and sprayed it I was shocked. Vetiver by Guerlain is a Woody fragrance for men. Vetiver was launched in 1959. Top note is lemon; middle notes are tobacco and vetiver; base notes are nutmeg, tobacco and pepper.
Vetiver is a tall (1.5-2.0 m) perennial grass. It has a small stout rhizomatous stolen which gives rise to spongy, fibrous, dense roots system. Roots have aromatic properties and grow 20-30 cm deep in medium textured marginal soils under cultivation. The other floret is pedicelled and staminate. Java vetiver is non flowering type has broader leaves (1.1 mm), medium thick stems, bushy growth bearing flowers with high pollen sterility; the plants give out more branching roots with higher oil content and the oil is dextro-rotatory in nature.
Print. Print. Vetiver oil, also known as khus oil, is a lesser-known plant oil that offers a heavy, earthy fragrance, which is reminiscent of patchouli but with a touch of lemon. It is believed to be very grounding, calming, and stabilizing, and provides a range of essential oil uses and benefits.
Guerlain's Vetiver is a fresh, playful and gentle scent that projects maturity and class. On my skin it smells somewhat sweet (tonka bean and sage guess...), yet remains fresh (bergamot, pepper, lemon) with some tobacco in the background. Guerlain's Vetiver has always been the most popular fragrance of its class. Here is my personal view on the history of Vetiver. It must have been an idea of the late 1940's to use Vetiver as the main note for a gent's cologne.