Localised scleroderma. Localised scleroderma is the mildest form of the disease and can occur at any age. The disease just affects the skin, causing one or more hard patches. Internal organs are not affected. Exactly how the skin is affected depends on the type of localised scleroderma. There are two types: Morphoea: 1  small oval skin patches. 2  usually itchy. 3  can affect skin anywhere on the body. 4  patches may be hairless and/or lighter/darker than normal skin. 5  patches may fade after a few years. Scleroderma is an uncommon disease that results in hard, thickened areas of skin and sometimes problems with internal organs and blood vessels. There's no cure, but most people can lead a full, productive life. Scleroderma is an autoimmune condition, which means the body attacks its own tissues.
Scleroderma’s main types are localized and systemic. Localized means the disease affects only certain parts of the body. Systemic means it can affect the whole body. 1  The localized type often affects only skin tissues. 2  It does not harm major organs. 3  It may get better or go away without help. 4  But it can be severe in some people and can leave skin damage.
Back to Top Symptoms. Some types of scleroderma affect only the skin, while others affect the whole body. 1  Localized scleroderma. 2  Often affects only the skin on the hands and face. 3  It develops slowly, and rarely spreads in the body or causes serious problems. 4  Systemic scleroderma, or sclerosis. 
Scleroderma is a group of diseases that affect connective tissue in the body. This tissue supports your skin and internal organs. Scleroderma involves tissue that gets hard or thick. It can also cause swelling or pain in the muscles and joints. Some types of scleroderma lead to hard, tight skin. Localized means the disease affects only certain parts of the body. Systemic means it can affect the whole body. 1  The localized type often affects only skin tissues. 2  It does not harm major organs. 3  It may get better or go away without help. 4  But it can be severe in some people and can leave skin damage.
Scleroderma involves tissue that gets hard or thick. It can also cause swelling or pain in the muscles and joints. Some types of scleroderma lead to hard, tight skin. Other types affect blood vessels and major organs (such as the heart, lungs, and kidneys). 
There are three types of systemic scleroderma, defined by the tissues affected in the disorder. In one type of systemic scleroderma, known as limited cutaneous systemic scleroderma, fibrosis usually affects only the hands, arms, and face. In the third type of systemic scleroderma, called systemic sclerosis sine scleroderma (sine means without in Latin), fibrosis affects one or more internal organs but not the skin.
There are a number of treatments available to address the various conditions associated with scleroderma. None of these is a cure – they are designed to treat symptoms of the disease. The different classes of drugs listed below are currently approved, either in the US or Europe, to treat each condition. Side effects: Side effects from octreotide are not common, though pain or burning at the injection site may last for up to 15 minutes. Tell your physician if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: upset stomach, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach pain, bloating, flatulence, loss of appetite or increased hunger.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used to relieve some symptoms caused by arthritis (rheumatism), such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness and joint pain. For some people with certain medical conditions, NSAIDS can lead to the development of stomach bleeding and kidney disease. Side effects: Side effects from octreotide are not common, though pain or burning at the injection site may last for up to 15 minutes. Tell your physician if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: upset stomach, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach pain, bloating, flatulence, loss of appetite or increased hunger.
Medications. Several types of medications can help ease the signs and symptoms of limited scleroderma, including: 1  Topical antibiotics. 2  If skin ulcers become infected, you may need to apply topical antibiotics and bandage the area. 3  If topical treatment doesn't work, you may need oral or intravenous antibiotics. 4  Antacid drugs. 1 If skin ulcers become infected, you may need to apply topical antibiotics and bandage the area. 2  If topical treatment doesn't work, you may need oral or intravenous antibiotics. 3  Antacid drugs. 4  If limited scleroderma is giving you heartburn, your doctor may suggest drugs that reduce the production of stomach acid.
In another type of systemic scleroderma, known as diffuse cutaneous systemic scleroderma, the fibrosis affects large areas of skin, including the torso and the upper arms and legs, and often involves internal organs. In the third type of systemic scleroderma, called systemic sclerosis sine scleroderma (sine means without in Latin), fibrosis affects one or more internal organs but not the skin.