About RETINYL PALMITATE (VITAMIN A PALMITATE) : Retinyl palmitate is an ingredient composed of palmitic acid and retinol (Vitamin A). Data from an FDA study indicate that retinyl palmitate, when applied to the skin in the presence of sunlight, may ... read more. read more. About RETINYL PALMITATE (VITAMIN A PALMITATE) : Retinyl palmitate is an ingredient composed of palmitic acid and retinol (Vitamin A). Data from an FDA study indicate that retinyl palmitate, when applied to the skin in the presence of sunlight, may speed the development of skin tumors and lesions.
Retinyl Palmitate is produced from Retinol and is sometimes referred to as vitamin A palmitate. Retinol and Retinyl Palmitate are produced by commercial methods but can be found in animal fats, in fish liver oil, and in plants that contain beta-carotene, a vitamin A precursor. Retinol is the primary naturally occurring form of vitamin A. It is a pale yellow crystalline material or a thick liquid. Retinyl Palmitate is a yellow to yellow-red solid or oily substance. Retinyl Palmitate is the ester of Retinol and palmitic acid.
Vitamin A. Both retinol and retinyl palmitate are forms of vitamin A.. Retinyl palmitate is an ester -- or chemical compound -- formed from the reaction of retinol and palmitic acid. In order to use any form of topical vitamin A, the body must convert it first into retinoic acid. Retinyl palmitate must be broken down into retinol, then retinaldehyde and finally retinoic acid. 
Retinyl palmitate is considered to be a gentler, milder form of vitamin A. A combination of retinol and palmitic acid, it has been found in studies to be an effective antioxidant. Both are forms of vitamin A. Retinol is a pure form of the vitamin found in green and yellow vegetables, egg yolks, whole milk, beef, chicken, and fish-liver oil.
Both retinol and retinyl palmitate are widely used ingredients in skin care products. Both are forms of vitamin A. Retinol is a pure form of the vitamin found in green and yellow vegetables, egg yolks, whole milk, beef, chicken, and fish-liver oil.
Retinyl palmitate (vitamin A) on the other hand, is the normal form used for application on the skin and has great anti-aging, superb antioxidant and moisturizing capabilities. It accelerates cell renewal and stimulates the fibroblast and collagen in the skin, thereby reducing wrinkles and fine lines. 
Retinyl palmitate is a synthetic alternate for retinyl acetate in vitamin A supplements, and is available in oily or dry forms. It is a common vitamin supplement, available in both oral and injectable forms for treatment of vitamin A deficiency, under the brand names Aquasol A, Palmitate A and many others. Retinyl palmitate is also a constituent of some topically applied skin care products. After its absorption into the skin, retinyl palmitate is converted to retinol, and ultimately to retinoic acid (the active form of vitamin A present in Retin-A).
Retinyl palmitate, or vitamin A palmitate, is the ester of retinol (vitamin A) and palmitic acid, with formula C 36 H 60 O 2. An alternate spelling, retinol palmitate, which violates the-yl organic chemical naming convention for esters, is also frequently seen. Retinyl palmitate is also a constituent of some topically applied skin care products. After its absorption into the skin, retinyl palmitate is converted to retinol, and ultimately to retinoic acid (the active form of vitamin A present in Retin-A).