No, this isn't one of those days when I decide to pronounce everything with a British accent (though I do love those days.) Noosa Yoghurt, with an h, is so named because it's yogurt made in the Australian style. If you're asking yourself, What is Australian style yogurt?, don't worry, I did the same. Sounds like plain old Greek yogurt to me. To complicate things, this Aussie style yoghurt is actually made in Colorado, making it American style-Australian style-Greek style yogurt.. Sigh. I really wasn't compelled to try yet another type of yogurt.
See what you think. Every time you turn around there is a new brand of yogurt on the market. But Noosa Yoghurt stands out in the bunch. It is made from whole milk and the texture is somewhere between Greek yogurt and the standard variety. What makes Noosa so tempting is the taste. It is sweet-tangy without being either overly sweet or too tart. The fruit purees are the best surprise, with a rich fruit taste, true to the flavor. Yogurt is an excellent source of protein and calcium. Noosa would make a good breakfast or lunch choice. There are 10 flavors available: 1  Blueberry: 280 calories, 14 grams of protein and 380 milligrams of calcium. 2  Honey: 300 calories, 17 grams of protein and 39
If you prefer Greek yogurt, strain the yogurt through cheesecloth or in a Greek yogurt maker. The strained whey, the liquid left over from Greek yogurt, can be used like buttermilk. Don't Miss: Healthy Buttermilk Recipes. To make more yogurt, don’t forget to save at least 1/4 cup of the yogurt from your last batch. High in protein and calcium, and a probiotic powerhouse (if it’s got the live and active cultures label), yogurt is a magnificent food. Not only is yogurt simply delicious alone as a healthy snack or breakfast, it’s also an extremely versatile cooking ingredient.
Just had another container of the Noosa Yoghurt. One of the best things I ever ate in terms of yogurt. I tried the honey flavored, it was delicious. Just had the raspberry, loved it as well. The yogurt is very thick and is not your typical fat-free yogurt. The first one that I tried was the raspberry. It was absolutely amazing. The raspberry tasted just like raspberry pie filling and the yogurt which was on top of the raspberry was thick and creamy. My sister and I could not believe how good it was.
According to Noosa's website, Australian yogurt is Greek-style yogurt that's sweetened with honey, giving it a sweet tart tang and velvety texture.. Hmm. Sounds like plain old Greek yogurt to me. To complicate things, this Aussie style yoghurt is actually made in Colorado, making it American style-Australian style-Greek style yogurt.. Sigh. I really wasn't compelled to try yet another type of yogurt. I already eat Greek, Icelandic, Swiss, and French varieties
Hang with me, there is a lot to say about yogurt. Let’s start with the process that turns milk into yogurt. Yogurt is made through the fermentation process. Fermentation is the process of adding yeast or bacteria to turn carbohydrates into alcohol and carbon dioxide, or acids. Live, active bacteria are added to milk causing the milk’s sugar to turn into lactic acid. Just make sure you check the labels, just as you should with the dairy yogurts. Here’s what you don’t want to see on the label of your yogurt: 1  Aspartame-This is a very dangerous additive and should always be avoided in any food or drinks. 2  Aspartame has three components: methanol, phenylalanine, and aspartic acid.
To make your own yogurt, you’ll need 4 cups of milk and 1/4 cup of plain, unsweetened yogurt with live and active cultures. Because you need a little bit of yogurt to make your own yogurt, pick a plain yogurt you like the taste of. My favorite yogurt to use as a starter is Noosa, an Australian-style yogurt from Colorado, because the flavor is tangy. I prefer to use reduced-fat, 2% milk because it creates creamier yogurt than skim milk and without as much saturated fat or as many calories as whole milk, but you can use any milk you have on hand. High in protein and calcium, and a probiotic powerhouse (if it’s got the live and active cultures label), yogurt is a magnificent food. Not only is yogurt simply delicious alone as a healthy snack or breakfast, it’s also an extremely versatile cooking ingredient.
Noosa is a thick and creamy yogurt that comes in different fruity flavors. I was sent some samples of mango, strawberry rhubarb, raspberry, honey and blueberry. The first thing that I noticed was how different the container was compared to other yogurts. It comes in a flat 8 ounce container. The yogurt is very thick and is not your typical fat-free yogurt. The first one that I tried was the raspberry. It was absolutely amazing. The raspberry tasted just like raspberry pie filling and the yogurt which was on top of the raspberry was thick and creamy. My sister and I could not believe how good it was.
Review: Noosa Yogurt. Noosa is a brand of yogurt (they call it yoghurt) made in Colorado from a Australian recipe (that hails from Noosa, Australia, hence the name) . It comes in several varieties including the Strawberry Rhubarb and Blueberry flavors that I tried. I'm not sure if it's the whole milk, the recipe, or both but there's an awesomely creamy rich fullness to Noosa yogurt that I've never encountered in any other yogurt I've tried. It's lightly sweetened and has that yogurt tang to it but has a thick smooth texture that is like a softer Greek yogurt.