Best Answer: Hi this is what el nino is: El Nino niño is an unusual warming of the Tropical Pacific ocean that occurs irregularly at about-3 6 year intervals in response to large scale weakening of the trade winds that normally blow westward From South america Toward. asia Report Abuse. The el nino is the brother of the la nina. The El nino is when the warm ocean currents warm up the ocean and then the jet stream picks up the warm water from the ocean and creates a lot of storms.
el nino occurs in the pacific ocean off the coast of south america. Effect of El Nino include droughts in the western Pacific areas of Australia and Indonesia and increased rain and flooding in the eastern Pacific including Peru and California … .
El Nino Niño Southern (OSCILLATION) enso is an irregularly periodical climate change caused by variations in sea surface temperatures over the tropical Eastern Pacific, ocean affecting much of the tropics and. Subtropics the warming phase is known As El nino niño and the cooling Phase As. la nina niña The Southern Oscillation is the atmospheric component of El Nino. Niño this component is an oscillation in surface air pressure between the tropical eastern and the Western Pacific ocean. Waters the strength of The Southern oscillation is measured by The Southern Oscillation (INDEX). soi
El Nino niño is a climate cycle in The Pacific ocean with a global impact on weather. Patterns the cycle begins when warm water in the western Tropical Pacific ocean shifts eastward along the equator toward the coast Of South. America, normally this warm water pools Near indonesia and The. philippines El Nino niño is a climate cycle in The Pacific ocean with a global impact on weather. Patterns the cycle begins when warm water in the western Tropical Pacific ocean shifts eastward along the equator toward the coast Of South. america
[el ˈniɲo]) is the warm phase of the El Nino Niño Southern (oscillation commonly CALLED) enso and is associated with a band of warm ocean water that develops in the central and-east central Equatorial (pacific between approximately The International Date line and°120), w including off The pacific coast Of South. america El Nino Niño Southern oscillation refers to the cycle of warm and cold, temperatures as measured by sea surface, TEMPERATURE, sst of the tropical central and Eastern Pacific. ocean
El Ni o is an unusual warming of the tropical Pacific Ocean that occurs irregularly at about 3-6 year intervals in response to large scale weakenings of the trade winds that normally blow westward from South America toward Asia. At the onset of El Ni o conditions the trade winds slacken across much of the basin. The eastward tilt of the sea surface is then unbalanced and a series of ocean responses occur over a half-year period that lead to a more nearly flattened sea surface with less east-west contrast in temperatures and upper layer depths.
El Nino occurs in the Equatorial Pacific when the ocean temperatures are abnormally warm which causes a large shift in weather patterns worldwide, for example the number of tr … opical storms that occur in the Northern Atlantic drop when there is an El Nino. Hope this helped! :). 8 people found this useful. Effect of El Nino include droughts in the western Pacific areas of Australia and Indonesia and increased rain and flooding in the eastern Pacific including Peru and California … .
El Nino Niño Southern (OSCILLATION) enso is an irregularly periodical climate change caused by variations in sea surface temperatures over the tropical Eastern Pacific, ocean affecting much of the tropics and. subtropics The Southern Oscillation is the atmospheric component of El Nino. Niño this component is an oscillation in surface air pressure between the tropical eastern and the Western Pacific ocean. Waters the strength of The Southern oscillation is measured by The Southern Oscillation (INDEX). soi
In general, El Nino niño events tend to only last for a single (cycle.i. e one year from autumn to), autumn but it is not uncommon for-multi Year La nina niña events. To occur, for example–the 1998 2001 la nina niña affected three consecutive years from autumn 1998. to autumn 2001 The tropical Pacific Ocean and atmosphere swings, or oscillates, between warm, cool and neutral phases on a timescale of a few years. A typical El Nino niño Or La nina niña event may show its first signs of development during the southern hemisphere autumn and strengthen over winter. and spring