Jasper /ja-sper/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced JAS-per. It is of Greek origin. Variant of Caspar or Gaspar. Possibly (Persian) treasure keeper. Jasper is also a semiprecious gemstone, harder than glass, and red or reddish brown. Biblical: the jasper mentioned in the Book of Revelation actually may refer to a diamond. Painter Jasper Johns. Jasper is a very popular first name for men (#553 out of 1220, Top 45%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#3576 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Jasper for boy
In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 218 in baby name popularity for boys with 1731 occurrences. It ranked 4103 in popular baby names for girls with 36 occurrences. View the Jasper Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jasper has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jasper to other names. The names Caspar, Jaspar, Jesper, Kacper are all forms of Jasper. Jasper falls into the name categories gem or mineral, occupational. Some famous bearers of this name include: Jasper John
Thank you! Answer: The meaning of jasper stone is in the essence of its energy. Jasper is a very nourishing, warm and protective stone no matter what colour you find the jasper in-be it yellow, green, blue, purple or the deep earthy red. Jasper often has stripes or bands that amplify the healing and earthy energy of this stone. Popular forms of jasper include bloodstone (a combination of red or yellow jasper and green quartz), brecciated jasper (hematite and jasper together) and mookaite (Australian jasper with purple, soft pink and red colour).
Jasper is a popular baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been growing since the 1970s. Its usage peaked modestly in 2012 with 0.067% of baby boys being given the name Jasper. It ranked at #264 then. Among all boy names in its group, Jasper was the most popular in 2012. It is pronounced in English as JH AE S-PahR †. Jasper is used chiefly in the Dutch, English, French, and German languages, and it is derived from Old Persian and Old Greek origins. From Old Persian roots, its meaning is keeper of the treasure. A biblical name, it is derived from the elements 'ghaz' meaning treasure; 'bar' to manage
Notes: Jasper is a name with English origins. The meaning of the name Jasper is treasurer. Common nicknames for the name Jasper include Jasp, Jazz, and Jas. Jasper is a form of Casper. It is also the name of a semi-precious stone and one of the Three Magi in the Christian Bible. Jasper Johns was a famous artist and Jasper Packard was a 19th century U.S. representative from the state of Indiana.
The name Jasper is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jasper is: Jewel. English Meaning: The name Jasper is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jasper is: Master of the treasure. Arabic Meaning: The name Jasper is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Jasper is: Keeper of the treasure. French Meaning: The name Jasper is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Jasper is: Jasperstone. Persian Meaning: The name Jasper is a Persian baby name. In Persian the meaning of the name Jasper is: Keeper of treasure. Derived from Gaspar or Caspar.
• JASPER (noun). The noun JASPER has 1 sense: 1. an opaque form of quartz; red or yellow or brown or dark green in color; used for ornamentation or as a gemstone. Familiarity information: JASPER used as a noun is very rare. 