Wet Scrubbing. Wet scrubbing is a technique that air scrubbers use in which air is passed through a moist pad, wet cloth, or liquid chamber. As air passes through this liquid, particles and residue stick to the cloth while the air passes through it and exits the air scrubber as clean air. Plain water is used in some wet scrubbing devices. In other air scrubbers, reagents or other solutions are used to target and remove specific chemical compounds.
The exhaust gases of combustion may contain substances considered harmful to the environment, and the scrubber may remove or neutralize those. A wet scrubber is used to clean air, fuel gas or other gases of various pollutants and dust particles. Wet scrubbing works via the contact of target compounds or particulate matter with the scrubbing solution. Solutions may simply be water (for dust) or solutions of reagents that specifically target certain compounds. The first air scrubber was designed to remove carbon dioxide from the air of an early submarine, the Ictineo I, a role for which they continue to be used to this day.
Wet Scrubber Basic Configurations. The basic scrubber configurations are: 1  Orifice scrubbers-air or gas velocity is increased through an orifice-increased turbulence atomize the water droplets. 2  Venturi scrubbers-air or gas velocity is increased through a venturi shape-increased turbulence atomize the water droplets. In a wet scrubber process air is drawn through a mist of water made by spray nozzles, then through separators where water droplets with dust and particles are removed.
Dry Scrubbing. Dry scrubbing is a technique that air scrubbers use, in which a mechanism that introduces air into the device (usually a fan) and a process of removing particles and other items from the air (usually an ionic air purifier) are used. As air passes through this liquid, particles and residue stick to the cloth while the air passes through it and exits the air scrubber as clean air. Plain water is used in some wet scrubbing devices. In other air scrubbers, reagents or other solutions are used to target and remove specific chemical compounds.
Recently, the term is also used to describe systems that inject a dry reagent or slurry into a dirty exhaust stream to wash out acid gases. Scrubbers are one of the primary devices that control gaseous emissions, especially acid gases. The first air scrubber was designed to remove carbon dioxide from the air of an early submarine, the Ictineo I, a role for which they continue to be used to this day.
Several times each hour, the scrubber draws the contaminated air from the space while simultaneously pumping in fresh air that is free of gases, chemicals, or airborne particles. Many designs call for the inclusion of high efficiency particle air filters, commonly known as HEPA filters. Like most air filtration systems, an air scrubber makes use of purification filters that help to remove contaminants as the air within the space is circulated through the system.
An air scrubber is a device that is used to remove particles, gases, or chemicals from the air within a given area. While most air filtration systems of this type are designed to handle only one of these types of pollutants, there are a few industrial air cleaners that will handle two and even all three contaminants. Like most air filtration systems, an air scrubber makes use of purification filters that help to remove contaminants as the air within the space is circulated through the system.
An air scrubbe r is a portable filtration system that removes particles, gasses, and/or chemicals from the air within a given area. These machines draw air in from the surrounding environment and pass it through a series of filters to remove contaminants. An air scrubber can be used as a negative air machine, but it requires ducting, a sealed housing, precise airflow adjustment, and a variable speed blower motor. A negative air machine uses ducting to remove contaminated air from a sealed containment area. The filtered air is exhausted outside of the
Wet scrubbers are effective air pollution control devices for removing particles and/or gases from industrial exhaust streams. A wet scrubber operates by introducing the dirty gas stream with a scrubbing liquid – typically water. Particulate or gases are collected in the scrubbing liquid. Wet scrubbers are generally the most appropriate air pollution control device for collecting both particulate and gas in a single system. Pollution Systems offers a variety of wet scrubber systems specifically designed for your process application