A special warranty deed conveys the grantor's title to the grantee and promises to protect the grantee against title defects or claims asserted by the grantor and any persons whose right to assert a claim against the title arose during the period in which the grantor held title to the property. A warranty deed should contain an accurate description of the property being conveyed, be signed and witnessed according to the laws of the state where the property is located, and be delivered to the purchaser at closing.
Definition of WARRANTY DEED. : a deed warranting that the grantor has a good title free and clear of all liens and encumbrances and will defend the grantee against all claims. ADVERTISEMENT. Apostles' Creed, canary seed, velocipede
Warranty Deed Law & Legal Definition. A deed is the written document which transfers title (ownership) or an interest in real property to another person. The deed must describe the real property, name the party transferring the property (grantor), the party receiving the property (grantee) and be signed and notarized by the grantor. There are two basic types of deeds: a warranty deed, which guarantees that the grantor owns title, and the quitclaim deed, which transfers only that interest in the real property which the grantor actually has.
A general warranty deed not only conveys to the grantee all of the grantor's interest in and title to the property but also guarantees that if the title is defective or has a cloud on it, such as a mortgage claim, tax lien, title claim, judgment, or mechanic's lien, the grantee may hold the grantor liable. A warranty deed should contain an accurate description of the property being conveyed, be signed and witnessed according to the laws of the state where the property is located, and be delivered to the purchaser at closing.
warranty deed. n. a deed to real property which guarantees that the seller owns clear title which can be transferred (conveyed). A grant deed generally is a warranty deed, while a quit claim deed is not. A warranty deed should contain an accurate description of the property being conveyed, be signed and witnessed according to the laws of the state where the property is located, and be delivered to the purchaser at closing.
DEFINITION of 'Warranty Deed'. A document that may be used to legally transfer property. A warranty deed states that the owner can legally transfer the property and that no other entity has a claim or lien on it. These deeds are typically used in property sales and make warranties about the property’s title. Next Up
DEFINITION of 'Special Warranty Deed'. A special warranty deed is a deed in which the seller warrants or guarantees the title only against defects arising during the period of his or her tenure or ownership of the property.
Definition. A general warranty deed is a legal document that identifies the owner of a property and also guarantees to the owner that the property is free and clear of any encumbrances or claims against it. It makes this guarantee for as far back as the original defining of the property. While a general warranty deed guarantees clear title (and therefore ownership) to the property for all time in the past, special warranty deeds only guarantee a clear title dating from the time the seller first owned
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A warranty deed is a type of deed where the grantor (seller) guarantees that he or she holds clear title to a piece of real estate and has a right to sell it to the grantee (buyer). This is in contrast to a quitclaim deed, where the seller does not guarantee that he or she holds title to a piece of real estate. 
Definition. Document (instrument) that conveys a grantor's complete interest and claim to a property to a grantee, and (unlike a quitclaim deed) expressly guarantees a clean, clear, and marketable title to the property. http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/warranty-deed.html. 