Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are relatively rare cancers that originate in the cells of Cajal, which are specialized cells lining the digestive tract responsible for initiating the rhythmic movement that propels food and solid waste through the GI tract. GISTs may be cancerous (malignant) or noncancerous (benign). Malignant GISTs can occur in any part of the gastrointestinal tract—from the esophagus to the rectum—but occur most commonly in the stomach and small intestine.
They are defined as tumors whose behavior is driven by mutations in the KIT gene (85%), PDGFRA gene (10%), or BRAF kinase (rare). 95% of GISTs stain positively for KIT (CD117). Most (66%) occur in the stomach and gastric GISTs have a lower malignant potential than tumors found elsewhere in the GI tract. Although the generally accepted definition of pediatric GIST is a tumor that is diagnosed at the age of 18 years or younger, pediatric-type GISTs can be seen in adults, which affects risk assessment, the role of lymph node resection, and choice of therapy.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) account for less than 1% of gastrointestinal tumors, but they are the most common mesenchymal neoplasms of the gastrointestinal tract. GISTs are usually found in the stomach or small intestine but can occur anywhere along the GI tract and rarely have extra-GI involvement. 
Hyperlinked terms are defined in the glossary section of this website. Click the term to see a pop-up definition. Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is a rare cancer affecting the digestive tract or nearby structures within the abdomen. GI stromal tumor, or GIST cancer, is a sarcoma. When a GIST grows in a location where it is not encased in the peritoneal membranes, it is said to be retroperitoneal. For example, GISTs attached to some sections of the duodenum are retroperitoneal. Cancer is most threatening when it metastasizes or spreads to additional locations beyond the primary tumor site.
A GIST tumor that originates elsewhere and then spreads to the liver is still biologically a GIST tumor and not a liver tumor; therefore, GIST tumors in the liver are treated very differently than cancer which starts in the liver (liver cancer). Early symptoms of GIST may go unnoticed. And, because GIST is so rare, primary care physicians may not readily recognize its symptoms. Without early detection and treatment, the primary tumor can grow very large or spread (metastasize) to other locations in the body, such as the liver or abdominal cavity.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal neoplasms of the gastrointestinal tract. GISTs arise in the smooth muscle pacemaker interstitial cell of Cajal, or similar cells. Although the generally accepted definition of pediatric GIST is a tumor that is diagnosed at the age of 18 years or younger, pediatric-type GISTs can be seen in adults, which affects risk assessment, the role of lymph node resection, and choice of therapy.
GIST is a rare type of sarcoma found in the digestive system, most often in the wall of the stomach. Some GISTS behave in a non cancerous (benign) way. Or they can behave in a cancerous (malignant) way. Tumour means a lump or growth in the body. About 6 out of 10 (60%) of these tumours start in the stomach. But they can begin anywhere in the digestive system, for example in the bowel or food pipe (oesophagus). Very rarely, they develop outside the gastrointestinal tract.
The metastatic tumor is the same type of tumor as the primary tumor. For example, if a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) spreads to the liver, the tumor cells in the liver are actually GIST cells. The disease is metastatic GIST, not liver cancer. Resectable gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) can be completely or almost completely removed by surgery. Treatment may include the following: 1  Surgery to remove tumors that are 2 centimeters or larger. 2  Laparoscopic surgery may be done if the tumor is 5 cm or smaller.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) may be malignant (cancer) or benign (not cancer). They are most common in the stomach and small intestine but may be found anywhere in or near the GI tract. Some scientists believe that GISTs begin in cells called interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), in the wall of the GI tract. Resectable gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) can be completely or almost completely removed by surgery. Treatment may include the following: 1  Surgery to remove tumors that are 2 centimeters or larger. 2  Laparoscopic surgery may be done if the tumor is 5 cm or smaller.
A gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is a type of tumor that occurs in the gastrointestinal tract, most commonly in the stomach or small intestine. The tumors are thought to grow from specialized cells found in the gastrointestinal tract called interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs) or precursors to these cells. Small tumors may cause no signs or symptoms. However, some people with GISTs may experience pain or swelling in the abdomen, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or weight loss. Sometimes, tumors cause bleeding, which may lead to low red blood cell counts (anemia) and, consequently, weakness and tiredness.