Etymology & Historical Origin-Anika. Anika is the German, Dutch and Danish pet form of Anne. Anne is the English form of the Latin Anna which comes from the Hebrew name Hannah from the word “channah” meaning “grace, favor”.
Origin of the name Anika: A pet form of Anna, which is derived from the Hebrew Hannah (gracious, full of grace), which is from hannāh, chaanach (grace, gracious, mercy). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
The meaning of Anika has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Anika are: 1  Hebrew meaning: Grace; favour. 2  Latin meaning: Grace; favour. 3  Japanese meaning: Apricot from Nara. 4  Sanskrit meaning: Army; face; brilliance; form. Form of: Annika. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Anika and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Dutch Meaning: The name Anika is a Dutch baby name. In Dutch the meaning of the name Anika is: American Meaning: The name Anika is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Anika is: Hebrew Meaning: The name Anika is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Anika is: Grace.
Anika is a very prominent first name for women (#2087 out of 4276, Top 49%) but an unusual last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Anika for girls. Anika entered the list in 1970-1979 and reached its top rank of #478 in the U.S. in the year 2004, and is currently at #519. 
In addition, Anika is a diminutive form of Anna in the Dutch, German, and Scandinavian languages. Anika is also a variant spelling of the name Annika (Russian, Dutch, Finnish, German, Scandinavian, and English). Anika is used chiefly in the English, Dutch, German, and Scandinavian languages, and it is derived from African-Hausa and Hebrew origins. From African-Hausa roots, its meaning is sweetness of face-in this context, Anika can be used in the English language.
Name Anika generally means Goddess Durga, is of Hebrew, Dutch, Indian origin, Name Anika is a Feminine (or Girl) name. 
The different meanings of the name Anika are: The meaning of the name “Anika” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. Form of: Annika. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Anika and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Anika is a fairly popular baby name for girls. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1990s. At the modest peak of its usage in 2006, 0.031% of baby girls were given the name Anika. It ranked at #485 then. In 2012, its usage was 0.026% and its ranking #583. Anika is used chiefly in the English, Dutch, German, and Scandinavian languages, and it is derived from African-Hausa and Hebrew origins. From African-Hausa roots, its meaning is sweetness of face-in this context, Anika can be used in the English language.