1 • INTRODUCTION. The Walloons, who live in Belgium's southern provinces, are the country's French-speaking inhabitants. Their culture contrasts with that of the Flemings, who inhabit the northern part of the country and speak Flemish, a language similar to Dutch. The Walloons' closest cultural ties are to France and other countries in which Romance languages are spoken. In the fifth century.
Walloon is more distinct as a language than Belgian French, which differs from the French spoken in France only in some minor points of vocabulary and pronunciation. Walloon was the predominant language of the Walloon people until the beginning of the 20th century, although they had a passing knowledge of French. Since that time, the use of French has spread to the extent that now only 15% of the Walloon population speak their ancestral language.
Flemings are farmers who know French but don't want to speak it. Walloons are lazy and arrogant bon vivants. That is roughly how we think of each other according to a detailed study from Mark Elchardus (VUB) and Olivier Servais (UCL). We look at each other using cliches. Clichés and the negative ones are. prominent
The term Walloon is derived from *walha, a Proto-Germanic term used to refer to Celtic and Latin speakers. Walloon originated in Romance languages alongside other related terms, but it supplanted them. The border is clear (...) The provinces which are back the Walloon line, i.e.: the Province of Liege, liège The brabant, wallon The province Of, namur The province Of hainaut Are [...] Walloon and the other provinces throughout the [...] line Are. flemish
Walloon language. Walloon (Walon in Walloon) is a Romance language that was spoken as a primary language in large portions (70%) of Wallonia in Belgium, in some villages of Northern France (near Givet) and in the northeast part of Wisconsin until the mid 20th century. Walloon was the predominant language of the Walloon people until the beginning of the 20th century, although they had a passing knowledge of French. Since that time, the use of French has spread to the extent that now only 15% of the Walloon population speak their ancestral language.
[walɔ̃] ; Walloon: Walons) are a French-speaking people who live in Belgium, principally in Wallonia. Walloons are a distinctive ethnic community within Belgium. Important historical and anthropological criteria (religion, language, traditions, folklore) bind Walloons to the French people. More generally, the term also refers to the inhabitants of the Walloon Region. They speak regional languages such as Walloon (with Picard in the West and Lorrain in the South). Walloons are the descendants of Gallo-Romans with Germanic Frankish admixture. The border is clear (...) The provinces which are back the Walloon line, i.e.: the Province of Liege, liège The brabant, wallon The province Of, namur The province Of hainaut Are [...] Walloon and the other provinces throughout the [...] line Are. flemish
Best Answer: Belgian. There are two main types of Belgians though, the Walloons and the Flemish. North Belgium is the area of Flanders and Wallonia is in the South. The language in Flanders is Flemish and the language in Wallonia is French. So, in conclusion, people from Belgium are called Belgians (Belgen(D)/Belges(F)), the Dutch-speaking Belgians are called 'Flemish' (Vlamingen, adjective Vlaams), the French-speaking 'Walloon' (wallons, adiective wallon).
Even though people from both ethnic groups call themselves Flemish or Walloon, it still doesn't justify in why the situation should reach with politics. Despite them being (what you consider) socially divided, I still don't see how ethnic identity is the main cause of the crisis. -Few in Belgium refer to themselves as Belgian; they more readily call themselves Flemish or Walloon. -The divisions of a poor southern region, fair representation in government, and cultural differences are reminiscent of the causes of many civil wars.
Walloon was born between the 8th and the 12th centuries from the remnants of the Latin language brought to our regions by soldiers, merchants and settlers from Rome. At the time, the autochtons calles their language roman. The name Walloon (with its modern meaning) appears in the beginning of the 16th century. Our language is a member of the romance languages family and of the gallo-roman or oil oïl, subgroup of which the most famous member Is. french This page offers a basic presentation of several aspects of Walloon (a romance language spoken in Wallonia) from the viewpoints of linguistics, sociolinguistics, dialectology (see our map of Wallonia) and philology. Finally there are several words about today's Walloon culture.
Since then, most linguists (among them Louis Remacle), and gradually also Walloon politicians, regard Walloon as a regional language, the first in importance in Wallonia. It is the only one to have originated from that part of Belgium. Walloon was the predominant language of the Walloon people until the beginning of the 20th century, although they had a passing knowledge of French. Since that time, the use of French has spread to the extent that now only 15% of the Walloon population speak their ancestral language.