He became an instant billionaire in 1998 when eBay first went public. Omidyar founded eBay in 1995, but it did not go public until September 21, 1998. So now you know who invented eBay. Now let’s look at some interesting facts about the Internet’s most popular auction site.
AuctionWeb was founded in California, on September 4, 1995, by French-born Iranian-American computer programmer Pierre Omidyar (born June 21, 1967) as part of a larger personal site. One of the first items sold on AuctionWeb was a broken laser pointer for $14.83.
The company manages eBay.com, an online auction and shopping website in which people and businesses buy and sell a broad variety of goods and services worldwide.
eBay Inc. is an American multinational corporation and e-commerce company, providing consumer to consumer & business to consumer sales services via Internet. It is headquartered in San Jose, California. eBay was founded by Pierre Omidyar in 1995, and became a notable success story of the dot-com bubble.
He became a billionaire at the age of 31 with eBay's 1998 Initial Public Offering (IPO). Omidyar and his wife Pamela are well-known philanthropists who founded Omidyar Network in 2004 in order to expand their efforts beyond nonprofits to include for-profits and public policy.
It was from the start meant to be a marketplace for the sale of goods and services for individuals. In 1998, Pierre and his cofounder Jeff Skoll brought in Meg Whitman to sustain the success. Meg had studied at the Harvard Business School and had learned the importance of branding at companies such as Hasbro.
In 1997, Pierre Omidyar changed the company's name to eBay and began to advertise the service aggressively. The word eBay was made up on the fly by Omidyar when he was told that his first choice for his web site, echobay, had already been registered.
In 1995, at the age of 28, Omidyar began to write the original computer code for an online venue to enable the listing of a direct person-to-person auction for collectible items.
eBay was founded by an Iranian computer programmer named Pierre Omidyar. He became an instant billionaire in 1998 when eBay first went public. Omidyar founded eBay in 1995, but it did not go public until September 21, 1998.