The most obvious external differences are visible in the head—alligators and caimans have wider and shorter heads, and a more U-shaped than V-shaped snout. The alligator's upper jaw is wider than its lower jaw, and the teeth in the lower jaw fit into small depressions in the upper jaw. Alligators and crocodiles are in the same reptile subgroup. They mostly live in tropical or semitropical regions. Alligators are mostly found in the southern United States and the crocodiles in Africa, India, South America, and southern United States. They are among the largest reptiles.
1 Snout shape: Alligators have wider, U-shaped snouts, while crocodile front ends are more pointed and V-shaped. 2  Toothy grin: When their snouts are shut, crocodiles look like they're flashing a toothy grin, as the fourth tooth on each side of the lower jaw sticks up over the upper lip. Coming face to face with a crocodile or an alligator, you'd see a mouth full of serrated teeth that would likely scare the bejeezus out of you. The two reptile groups are close relatives, so their physical similarities are expected. Upon closer inspection, not recommended out in the wild, you'd spot glaring differences:
Two Methods: Similarities Differences. Alligators and crocodiles are commonly confused with one another, and the words are often used interchangeably. They look somewhat similar, but by looking for a few key details and pieces of information, you'll be able to use the words correctly. See Step 1 to learn to start distinguishing them correctly. Both alligators and crocodiles, are part of a family called The Crocodylia, which is one of the most common reasons, people get these two reptiles mixed up.
SIAMESE CROCODILE. 3. Placement of teeth: In alligators, the upper jaw is wider than the lower jaw and completely overlaps it. Therefore, the teeth in the lower jaw are almost completely hidden when the mouth closes, fitting neatly into small depressions or sockets in the upper jaw. Other differences: The above points are amongst the most obvious differences between crocodiles and alligators in terms of external appearance. However, each species is unique, and to list all the possible differences would be like comparing a jaguar with a lion. Differences in behaviour are also apparent.
Crocodile & Alligator Differences. Crocodiles and alligators are both reptiles from the same order of animals, named Crocodylia. There are however a number of important differences which set these apex predators apart. Read on to find out what some of these differences are while enjoying all our animal facts for kids.
The upper-lower jaw of the crocodile is the same width so their teeth are always exposed even when their mouth is closed. But the upper jaw on the alligator is wider. This means when their mouth is shut the lower jaw teeth slide into the sockets of the upper jaw. This makes it very easy for them to hide all their enormous teeth. Another distinguishing feature between the crocodile and alligator is their color. Alligators have a more blackish grayish color and crocodiles tend to have a more light tan appearance. In addition, you can tell them apart by their sizes with the crocodiles being the bigger of the two. To begin with, Crocodiles are from the crocodilian family and the alligatoridae family belongs to the alligators. If you look at the snout on the crocodiles, you will see it looks like a narrow ‘V’ that is very long, while the alligator’s snout has a wider ‘U’-shape.
While alligators (and caimans) are often confused with crocodiles, they belong to two quite separate taxonomic families.The most obvious external differences are visible in the head—alligators and caimans have wider and shorter heads, and a more U-shaped than V-shaped snout. The alligator's upper jaw is wider than its lower jaw, and the teeth in the lower jaw fit into small depressions in the upper jaw. The upper and lower jaws of the crocodiles are the same width, and teeth in the lower jaw fall along the edge or outside the upper jaw when the mouth is closed. When the crocodile's mouth is closed, the large fourth tooth in the lower jaw fits into a constriction in the upper jaw
Both alligators and crocodiles are members of the reptilian order Crocodylia, however they belong to different families. There are a total of 23 types of crocodilians (belonging to the Crocodylia order), including these two. Crocodilians date back 240 million years, that’s 65 million years more than the dinosaurs. Some crocodiles, such as the Nile crocodile, have even been known to eat humans. Also, crocodiles are famous for their temper and are considered far more aggressive than the alligators. Further differences between crocodiles and alligators include: Alligators. Crocodiles. Family. Alligatoridae. Crocodylidae. First appeared.