http://www.chacha.com/question/can-eczema-be-deadly. Eczema is a disease in a form of dermatitis,or inflammation of the epidermis. In rare cases someone vaccinated against smallpox can develop eczema vaccinatum, which can cause organ failure. Ordinary eczema is not deadly.
1 Eczema is not a single disease but a reaction pattern of the skin produced by a number conditions. 2  Atopic dermatitis, a common causes of eczema, is more prevalent in those with asthma and hay fever. 3  Eczema appears as small blisters that can weep and ooze, or as crusted, thickened plaques of skin.
One of the most fatal skin disease s is Eczema Herpeticum. Usually caused by a virus, this disease usually occurs at damaged skin locations which were prior affected with eczema (rashes on the skin) or atopic dermatitis (particular inflammation produced on the skin).
Can eczema be deadly. http://www.chacha.com/question/can-eczema-be-deadly. Eczema is a disease in a form of dermatitis,or inflammation of the epidermis. In rare cases someone vaccinated against smallpox can develop eczema vaccinatum, which can cause organ failure. Ordinary eczema is not deadly.
Viral infections, in particular herpes simplex virus (the virus that causes cold sores and genital herpes), is moe common in patients with atopic dermatitis. A herpes simplex infection can spread rapidly in the presence of eczema and cause a severe infection known as eczema herpeticum.
Eczema is a term for a group of medical conditions that cause the skin to become inflamed or irritated. The most common type of eczema is known as atopic dermatitis, or atopic eczema. Atopic refers to a group of diseases with an often inherited tendency to develop other allergic conditions, such as asthma and hay fever.
Eczema facts. 1  Eczema is not a single disease but a reaction pattern of the skin produced by a number conditions. 2  Atopic dermatitis, a common causes of eczema, is more prevalent in those with asthma and hay fever. 3  Eczema appears as small blisters that can weep and ooze, or as crusted, thickened plaques of skin.