During the summer, when the water temperature is above 60 degrees Fahrenheit, feed your Koi fish a high protein Koi food. During the fall and spring, when the water temperature is between 52 and 60 degrees Fahrenheit, feed them an easy to digest wheat germ based Koi food. 
The water temperature for your koi should be between 50-86 °F (10-30 °C). However, they can withstand temperatures slightly lower and slightly higher than this, but it is best not to keep them at extreme temperatures for very long. mikehunt762 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. I got a koi fish to put in with my goldfish. *right now he is only about 2-3 inches long, but when he gets bigger we will be giving him to my friend who has a koi pnd in their backyard.* Anyways, he was picking on my goldfish, so we moved him to my mom's 55 gallon tank, which is kept at 80 degrees...
Typically, Koi should be in ponds that are at least 1,000 gallons. Avoid Overstocking the Pond To maintain healthy fish and clear water, do not overload the ecosystem with too many fish. For a new pond, a good rule of thumb is one inch of fish per square foot of surface area. 
Step 1 Choosing an Aquarium. (A) Young Koi can be kept in a large aquarium. • Minimum aquarium size should be 29 gallons (110 L). (At least two gallons (8 L) of water for every 1 (3 cm) of fish). • With their large size and fast growth rate, mature Koi should be kept in a large outdoor pond (at least 50 gallons (190 L) of water per Koi). (B) An appropriate aquarium stand will safely support the weight of your filled aquarium
Koi fish can thrive in both indoor and outdoor ponds. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. As a koi owner, it is crucial that you keep your koi's tank or pond at a reasonable temperature. Koi rely on the water temperature to assist with their digestive process and cannot digest food if the water gets too cold.
When the temperatures in your koi pond or tank are between 52 and 60 degrees Fahrenheit, you will want to feed your koi an easy to digest food such as one made of wheat germ. You need to change his diet because his digestive system will not be moving very well. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. As a koi owner, it is crucial that you keep your koi's tank or pond at a reasonable temperature. Koi rely on the water temperature to assist with their digestive process and cannot digest food if the water gets too cold.
To determine what, in my opinion, is the maximum safe fish load for your tank or indoor pond, divide the total gallonage by 100. The result is the number of 12-inch koi that can be raised in that volume of water. For example, if you are using a 125-gallon tank, then the safe fish load would be 1.25 12-inch koi. In other words, one 12-inch fish would be fine, but two would be overcrowding. Most common fish health and aquarium/pond maintenance problems can be traced to the unfortunate habit of keeping too many fish in too little water. Consequently, during the past several years I have devised a rule of thumb for determining the maximum koi fish load for a given volume of water (aquarium or pond).
Temperature Range. According to Koi Acres, a company that sells koi and koi supplies, koi fish are able to survive in water that is anywhere between 34 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit. Even though koi can survive in extremely cold or very hot water, it does not mean that they do well at these temperatures. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. As a koi owner, it is crucial that you keep your koi's tank or pond at a reasonable temperature. Koi rely on the water temperature to assist with their digestive process and cannot digest food if the water gets too cold.
My koi survived nicely through the winter ice covered pond; water temperature 31f. And nicely survived through hot summer; air temperature of 102; water temp would be lot cooler because of evaporation heat though. If you keep koi in your basement during the winter months, it is quite ok. joosangbai · 11 months ago. Thumbs up. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: if you have a koi pond in your basment.. sure... if you have a tank in your basement, unless it's like 2000 gallons, it's not ok they live survive winters where lakes completely freeze over, and laso live in people in florida's pond where it's 70 degrees all year... whe it cold they stop feeding.