Long Term Effects. The most common long-term effect of abusing OxyContin®, and perhaps the worst effect, is the addiction itself. Addiction ruins a person’s life bit by bit, becoming worse over time. In this way, OxyContin® abuse is no different from heroin, cocaine, or alcohol abuse
Side Effects. The side effects of oxycodone are related to the organs that are affected by the drug, such as the liver, brain and kidneys. Some of the more-common side effects include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, itchy skin, insomnia and dizziness. Long-Term Effects of Oxycodone. One of the long-term effects of oxycodone is addiction that is characterized by greater dependence on the drug and tolerance to the dosage. Tolerance to a drug means that you must take more and more of the medication to get the same early effect
The most frequent minor side effects of Oxycontin include gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms of constipation, nausea, stomach pain, loss of appetite, and vomiting, and other symptoms including somnolence (sleepiness), dizziness, itching, headache, dry mouth, sweating, and decreases in the ability to feel pain. Common side effects may include: 1  nausea, vomiting, constipation, loss of appetite; 2  dizziness, headache, tired feeling; 3  dry mouth; 4  sweating; or
Abuse of oxycodone or other opiate painkillers can result in severe side effects, including unconsciousness, breathing problems including stopped breathing, and death. Oxycodone withdrawal symptoms, such as insomnia, anxiety, pain, and nausea, can be managed with the help of your doctor. Oxycodone is commonly used to treat moderate to severe pain. Common side effects for oxycodone include nausea, vomiting, constipation, loss of appetite, dizziness, headache, feeling tired, dry mouth, sweating, and itching.
Other side effects can be much more serious, and may require immediate medical help 1  : Fast or slow heartbeat. 2  Chest pain. 3  Hives, itching, or rash. 4  Swelling of the face, throat, tongue, lips, eyes, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs. 5  Hoarseness. 6  Difficulty breathing or swallowing. 7  Seizures. 8  Extreme drowsiness. 
Long-Term Effects of OxyContin. Opiates have severe effects on the brain, and OxyContin is no different. Long-term effects include persistent vomiting and diarrhea caused by its action on the stomach. The stomach is unable to regulate itself properly, leading to these issues
The most serious risk associated with opioids, including OxyContin, is respiratory depression — slowed breathing. Common opioid side effects are constipation, nausea, sedation, dizziness, vomiting, headache, dry mouth, sweating, mood changes, flushing, loss of appetite, and weakness. 
Common side effects of OxyContin® abuse are constipation, nausea, vomiting, sleepiness, lack of interest, dizziness, headache, dry mouth, sweating, and weakness. In the short term, OxyContin® can cause: 1  Warm flushing of the skin. 2  Dry mouth. 3  Heavy feeling in arms and legs. 4  Nausea. 5  Vomiting. 6  Severe itching. 