On average, the cost for children with autism and an intellectual disability in the U.S. was more than $107,800 per year up to age 5, and roughly $85,600 per year between ages 6 and 17. Among children with no diagnosed intellectual disabilities, the associated costs were lower: approximately $63,290 per year for those 5 and under, and $52,205 per year for those between 6 and 17.
The economic costs of childhood disability. Stabile M, Allin S. Childhood disabilities entail a range of immediate and long-term economic costs that have important implications for the well-being of the child, the family, and society but that are difficult to measure.
[8]. SSI benefits, which average $615 a month for a disabled child (the federal maximum is $698) [9] , lift many families out of poverty and especially out of “deep poverty”: SSI lifts more than 300,000 children with disabilities from below 50 percent of the poverty line to above that threshold. In a word, no. In October 2012, SSI provided monthly cash benefits to 1.3 million disabled children under age 18 whose families have low incomes and few assets (these are basic eligibility criteria) — or about 1.7 percent of all children in the United States.
The total costs per year for children with ASD in the United States were estimated to be between $11.5 billion - $60.9 billion (2011 US dollars). This significant economic burden represents a variety of direct and in-direct costs, from medical care to special education to lost parental productivity. 
Not surprisingly, the evidence points to high direct costs for families with children with disabilities, though estimates vary considerably within these families. Out-of-pocket expenditures, particularly those for medical costs, for example, are higher among families with children with a special health care need. Stabile M, Allin S. Childhood disabilities entail a range of immediate and long-term economic costs that have important implications for the well-being of the child, the family, and society but that are difficult to measure.
In 2003, around 51% of couple families who had a child with a disability had both parents employed, compared with 61% of couple families where no child had a disability. If the child's disability was profound/severe, the proportion having both parents employed was lower (42%). Over one-third (38%) of lone parents who had a child with a disability were employed, compared with around one-half (52%) of lone parents who did not have a child with a disability.
Stabile and Allin calculate that the direct costs to families, indirect costs through reduced family labor supply, direct costs to disabled children as they age into the labor force, and the costs of safety net programs for children with disabilities average $30,500 a year per family with a disabled child. Stabile M, Allin S. Childhood disabilities entail a range of immediate and long-term economic costs that have important implications for the well-being of the child, the family, and society but that are difficult to measure.
The lifetime cost of individuals with ASD and no intellectual disabilities was $1.4 million -- and that's in addition to the costs that would accrue with a typically-developing child, Mandell said. It's $2.4 million for individuals with intellectual disabilities.. Among children with no diagnosed intellectual disabilities, the associated costs were lower: approximately $63,290 per year for those 5 and under, and $52,205 per year for those between 6 and 17.
Among adults with autism in the U.S., the top average annual cost was for accommodations (many adults with autism benefit from living in some form of supported housing), followed by medical expenses and lost productivity. Average costs for adults with intellectual disabilities were more than $88,000 per year. Among children with no diagnosed intellectual disabilities, the associated costs were lower: approximately $63,290 per year for those 5 and under, and $52,205 per year for those between 6 and 17.