1 If you have signed in to Surface with a Microsoft account, your mail account is already set up. 2  You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 3  If you’ve signed in to Surface with a local account, your mail account is not yet set up. 1 You can then add other accounts from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to add an account using an email address to begin using Mail.
1 Above the Email Accounts list, click Microsoft Email Plans. 2  Next to the account you want to use, click Set Up Account. 3  Read the End User License Agreement, and then click Accept. 4  In the Organization name field, enter your company, business, or organization name, and then click Next. 1 In the Organizations list, click Domains for the Organization that you want edit. 2  Click Add Domain, and then do one of the following: 3  Click Add a domain in this account, and then select a domain from the list. 4  Click Add a domain Not in this account, and then enter a domain in the field. 5  Click OK.
The first time you start the Mail app: 1  If you signed in to your Surface with a Microsoft account, your mail account is already set up. 2  You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 1 You can then add other accounts from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to add an account using an email address to begin using Mail.
1 You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to get a Microsoft account, and use your Microsoft account email address to begin using the Mail app. 1 You can then add other accounts from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to add an account using an email address to begin using Mail.
You can add as many Exchange (EWS) accounts as you want. 1  Open Mail. 2  From the Mail menu, choose Preferences, then click Accounts. 3  Click the plus sign (+) to add an account. 4  Select Exchange from the list of account types, then click Continue. 5  Enter your name, email address, and password, then click Continue. 
To add an Exchange account, click the Add button. In the Add Accounts dialog box, select Exchange, and then click Next. In the Exchange Settings dialog box, enter an account name and the name of the Exchange Server computer. If you want to identify the user by using a specific value, enter a User Name. Individual users can add more Exchange accounts to their Outlook profiles within Outlook 2013. To do so, users can click the File tab, click Account Settings, and then click Add Account, or use the Windows Control Panel Mail module.
1 Above the Email Accounts list, click Microsoft Email Plans. 2  Next to the account you want to use, click Manage. 3  In the Organizations list, click Domains for the Organization that you want edit. 4  Click Add Domain, and then do one of the following: 5  Click Add a domain in this account, and then select a domain from the list. 1 In the Organizations list, click Domains for the Organization that you want edit. 2  Click Add Domain, and then do one of the following: 3  Click Add a domain in this account, and then select a domain from the list. 4  Click Add a domain Not in this account, and then enter a domain in the field. 5  Click OK.
1 If you signed in to your Surface with a Microsoft account, your mail account is already set up. 2  You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 1 You can then add other accounts from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to add an account using an email address to begin using Mail.
Add an email account in Outlook. Although most people add an email account when Outlook first runs, your first or additional email accounts can be added at any time. Click the File tab. Under Account Information, click Add Account. Enter your name, email address, and password, and then click Next. If you enter an email address that ends with outlook.com, or msn.com, you must use the Microsoft Outlook Hotmail Connector to add the email account. 