Sedum. Sedum is a hardy perennial that features thick, succulent leaves, fleshy stems, and clusters of star-shaped flowers that bloom in late summer and fall. Sedums are easy to care for and are good for cut flowers. Like most succulent plants, sedum grow best in dry, poor soil and require full sun. The plants are exceptionally heat and drought tolerant; they also tolerate cold and humidity. Propagate plants by division in fall or spring, or take cuttings in summer.
The common name for these beautiful plants is Stonecrop but it's not very common these days. In fact, most people now call the sedums Sedum, and it's all due to one spectacular plant---Sedum Autumn Joy, one of the most popular perennials of all time, with pinkish bloom. It's a must for late summer color. Read More »
Sedum kamtschaticum ‘Variegatum’. All 94 results here. Alphabetical list of all 3,000+ perennials here. (='Herbstfreude') The border varieties of Stonecrop are a dependable choice for the late summer and fall garden, offering foliage interest earlier in the season, then a colourful display of flowers in the fall. 
Sedum are perennial plants which are hardy, tough, and drought tolerant. Sedum plants are used for mass plantings and as individual ornamental plants. There are hundreds of species of sedums and they are widely grown because of the ease of growing these showy plants and for their outstanding drought tolerance. Sedum (Sedum Hybridum) - Yellow Stonecrop Sedum can be grown from ground cover seeds to form a spreading, hardy perennial that is resistant to both deer and rabbits. It's a good choice for rock walls, containers, and between stepping stones or used as a green roof.
Sedum (Sedum Kamtschaticum) - Also known as Russian Stonecrop this perennial ground cover plant is an attractive semi-evergreen. It is easily grown from Sedum Kamtschaticum seeds, and once established, it has glossy, deep green leaves that are toothed, and it grows in a mounding habit. Sedum (Sedum Hybridum) - Yellow Stonecrop Sedum can be grown from ground cover seeds to form a spreading, hardy perennial that is resistant to both deer and rabbits. It's a good choice for rock walls, containers, and between stepping stones or used as a green roof.
Mark Bolton/Photolibrary/Getty Images. Overview: Showy Sedum, the taller plants in the genus Sedum, are often taken for granted in the garden, partly because they don’t bloom until the fall, but also because they require so little care from the gardener. Their thick, succulent leaves are able to withstand drought and rainy weather. 
This Week's Best Sellers. Sedum plants are perennial and they are hardy, tough, and drought tolerant. Sedum plants are used for mass plantings and as individual ornamental plants. There are hundreds of species of sedums and they are widely grown because of the ease of growing these showy plants. Sedums are very versatile in the landscape
Sedum (Stonecrop) have succulent foliage, are drought tolerant and are an important nectar source for bees and butterflies. They prefer very well drained soil and full sun. The tall Sedum bloom in late summer and fall and light up the border in shades of red and pink. 
11 Item(s). Sedum plants are perennial and they are hardy, tough, and drought tolerant. Sedum plants are used for mass plantings and as individual ornamental plants. There are hundreds of species of sedums and they are widely grown because of the ease of growing these showy plants. Sedums are very versatile in the landscape