Granite is found all over the world. But granite is found in Canada, United States of America, Chili, Russia, Egypt, China, Japan, Green land.... Yosemite is a good example of exposed granitic plutons, and there are may other across the globe. Granite can also be found as erratic rocks in glacially transported till, widespread from previous periods of glaciation during ice ages.
Granite is found throughout northern and central Minnesota. It varies in age from 2.6 billion years in the Minnesota River Valley and northern Minnesota to about 1.7 billion years near St. Cloud. Minnesota granites are composed predominantly of the minerals feldspar, quartz, mica, and hornblende. These rocks formed deep below the surface in the roots of major mountain ranges. These once deeply buried rocks are now exposed at or near the surface due to uplift and erosion.
Minerals such as gold, emerald, granite, feldspar, mica, and pyrophyllite are found in North Carolina. North Carolina leads the nation in the production of feldspar, mica and pyrophyllite. Mining alone is a half-billion dollar industry in North Carolina. Gold. 
Granite /ˈɡraenɨt/ ˈɡrænɨt is a common type of felsic intrusive igneous rock that is granular and phaneritic in. Texture granites can be predominantly, white, pink or gray in, color depending on their. mineralogy By definition, granite is an igneous rock with at least 20% quartz and up to 65% alkali feldspar by volume. The term granitic means granite-like and is applied to granite and a group of intrusive igneous rocks with similar textures and slight variations on composition and origin.
Granite is an igneous rock composed of mostly two minerals: quartz and feldspar. It is an intrusive rock, meaning that it crystallized from magma that cooled far below the earth's surface. Its name is derived from the Latin word 'granum', which means 'grain', a reference to the easily-seen minerals in the rock. Granite also is found below much of the rest of the middle of the continent. Buried under hundreds of feet of sedimentary rocks and glacier-deposited sediment, you'll find what's called basement rock. Granite can make up much of this foundation of the continents.
Granite is a common igneous rock. It is formed as a by product of the cooling of the molten rock underneath the Earth's surface, and so can be found in nature anywhere where the deep crust has been brought up to the surface. It is also believed that granite is produced from sedimentary and metamorphic rocks in a process called granitisation which involves heating and ionisation. Granite can be found underneath any large land mass, and is the core rock in all mountain ranges.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Granite is found all over the world. But granite is found in Canada, United States of America, Chili, Russia, Egypt, China, Japan, Green land.... And many more!!
Granite is a light-colored igneous rock with grains large enough to be visible with the unaided eye. It forms from the slow crystallization of magma below Earth’s surface. Granite is composed mainly of quartz and feldspar with minor amounts of mica, amphiboles and other minerals. This mineral composition usually gives granite a red, pink, gray or white color with dark mineral grains visible throughout the rock. Granite is a coarse-grained, light-colored igneous rock composed mainly of feldspars and quartz with minor amounts of mica and amphibole minerals. This simple definition enables students to easily identify the rock based upon a visual inspection.
Granite forms deep underground from slow cooling magma, therefore, granite can be found as the base rock of most continents and as plutons beneath the surface. In areas where overlying rock and sediment have eroded away the material above these features, granite is exposed at the surface. Yosemite is a good example of exposed granitic plutons, and there are may other across the globe. Granite can also be found as erratic rocks in glacially transported till, widespread from previous periods of glaciation during ice ages.
Granite countertops can also be found where there has been a significant amount of erosion, causing the deeper layers of the Earth's crust to be exposed. It is also believed that granite is produced from sedimentary and metamorphic rocks in a process called granitisation which involves heating and ionisation. Granite can be found underneath any large land mass, and is the core rock in all mountain ranges. Granite contains a large proportion of oxygen and silicon, the two most common elements on the earth's surface, making granite the most common rock on any continent