collective unconscious. In the psychology of Carl Jung, an area of the unconscious mind that all members of a society share, including instincts and religious feelings. collective unconscious. n. 1. (Psychology) psychol (in Jungian psychological theory) a part of the unconscious mind incorporating patterns of memories, instincts, and experiences common to all mankind.
Types of collective intelligence. Collective intelligence is shared or group intelligence that emerges from the collaboration, collective efforts, and competition of many individuals and appears in consensus decision making. 
Collective Bargaining. The process through which a Labor Union and an employer negotiate the scope of the employment relationship. A collective bargaining agreement is the ultimate goal of the collective bargaining process.
Full Definition of COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. : negotiation between an employer and a labor union usually on wages, hours, and working conditions. See collective bargaining defined for English-language learners. See collective bargaining defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of collective is a group of people working together toward a common goal or in an organization. An example of collective used as an adjective is a collective art project, a group of artists working together on a mural.
Definition. Good-faith process between an organization's management and a trade union representing its employees, for negotiating wages, working hours, working conditions, and other matters of mutual interest. 
col·lec·tive. adj. 1. Assembled into or viewed as a whole. 2. Of, relating to, characteristic of, or made by a number of people acting as a group: a collective decision. n. 1. An undertaking, such as a business operation, set up on the principles or system of collectivism. 2. A collective noun. col·lec′tive·ly adv.
collective. adjective. 1  Assembled into or viewed as a whole. 2  Of, relating to, characteristic of, or made by a number of people acting as a group: a collective decision. The definition of collective is a group of people working together toward a common goal or in an organization. An example of collective used as an adjective is a collective art project, a group of artists working together on a mural.
(March 2015). Collective bargaining is a process of negotiation between employers and a group of employees aimed at reaching agreements to regulate working conditions. The interests of the employees are commonly presented by representatives of a trade union to which the employees belong. 