Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors form in hormone-making cells (islet cells) of the pancreas. The pancreas is a gland about 6 inches long that is shaped like a thin pear lying on its side. The wider end of the pancreas is called the head, the middle section is called the body, and the narrow end is called the tail. 1 They cluster together in many small groups (islets) throughout the pancreas. 2  Endocrine pancreas cells are also called islet cells or islets of Langerhans. 3  Tumors that form in islet cells are called islet cell tumors, pancreatic endocrine tumors, or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pancreatic NETs).
The Islets of Langerhans. The Islets of Langerhans are commonly referred to as islets (pronounced EYE-lets). Islets actually are clusters of cells, with each islet containing 3,000 to 4,000 cells. Scientists estimate there are 1 million islets in a healthy, adult pancreas. They make up only 1 to 2 percent of the entire organ. Within each islet are several types of cells, which work together to regulate blood sugar. One cell type is the beta cell
The pancreatic islets or islets of Langerhans are the regions of the pancreas that contain its endocrine (i.e., hormone-producing) cells. Discovered in 1869 by German pathological anatomist Paul Langerhans, the pancreatic islets constitute approximately 1-2% of the pancreas's mass and receive 10-15% of its blood flow. Hormones produced in the pancreatic islets are secreted directly into the blood flow by (at least) five types of cells. In rat islets, endocrine cell subsets are distributed as follows: 1  Alpha cells producing glucagon (15–20% of total islet cells). 2  Beta cells producing insulin and amylin (65–80%).
Description of Pancreatic islet function. Pancreatic islet function: physiological activity and functions of the pancreatic islets as a whole or of any of its cells that provide for the secretion of insulin and other hormones. Source: CRISP. 
pancreatic delta cells. cells in the islet of Langerhans; known to secrete somatostatin, and vasoactive intestinal peptide. pancreatic duct. one of the two excretory ducts of the pancreas. Depending on the species, it may unite with the common bile duct before entering the duodenum at the major duodenal papilla. Synonym(s): islet tissue; Langerhans islands; pancreatic islands; pancreatic islets. Langerhans cell granulomatosis. Langerhans cells-dendritic clear cells in the epidermis that are active participants in cutaneous delayed hypersensitivity.
1 Tumors that form in islet cells are called islet cell tumors, pancreatic endocrine tumors, or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pancreatic NETs). 2  Exocrine pancreas cells make enzymes that are released into the small intestine to help the body digest food. 1 They cluster together in many small groups (islets) throughout the pancreas. 2  Endocrine pancreas cells are also called islet cells or islets of Langerhans. 3  Tumors that form in islet cells are called islet cell tumors, pancreatic endocrine tumors, or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pancreatic NETs).
islets of cells scattered through the pancreas; contain alpha, beta, C and D cells. pancreatic islet cell tumor. see gastrinoma, insulinoma. pancreatic lipase. enzyme released from the exocrine pancreas; catalyzes the hydrolysis of dietary lipids in the presence of bile salts. See also lipase. Synonym(s): islet tissue; Langerhans islands; pancreatic islands; pancreatic islets. Langerhans cell granulomatosis. Langerhans cells-dendritic clear cells in the epidermis that are active participants in cutaneous delayed hypersensitivity.
A pancreatic islet cell tumor is a tumor that develops in the pancreas from a type of cell called an islet cell. These cells are responsible for manufacturing and releasing various hormones into the bloodstream. If the tumor is malignant and spreads to other parts of the body, the cancer can become very serious. Other names for a pancreatic islet cell tumor are islet of Langerhans tumor, pancreatic endocrine tumor, and neuroendocrine tumor.
A porcine pancreatic islet. The left image is a brightfield image created using hematoxylin stain; nuclei are dark circles and the acinar pancreatic tissue is darker than the islet tissue. The right image is the same section stained by immunofluorescence against insulin, indicating beta cells. Hormones produced in the pancreatic islets are secreted directly into the blood flow by (at least) five types of cells. In rat islets, endocrine cell subsets are distributed as follows: 1  Alpha cells producing glucagon (15–20% of total islet cells). 2  Beta cells producing insulin and amylin (65–80%).