3. Radon tests are divided into short-term tests (less than 90 days, typically 2 to 7 days) and long-term tests, which is anything from 3 to 12 months. The most commonly used device for making short-term radon measurements in homes is the charcoal canister. 
If your short-term test results were 8 pCi/L or above, follow up with another short-term test. If your short-term test results are below 8 pCi/L follow up with a long-term test. Long-term tests will give you a more accurate reading of your year-round average radon level. Step 3. Short-term tests last from 2-90 days whereas long-term tests last from 91 days to 1 year. Various other dynamic testing methods are also available but are generally much more expensive to use. 1  Learn more about types of radon tests. 2  Order a radon test kit online from the American Lung Association of Oregon.
1 How long does a long-term test take? 2  A long-term test remains in your home for more than 90 days (ideally during the winter months) and then it's shipped to a certified laboratory for analysis. 3  For the annual average, a long-term radon test can remain inside your home for up to one year. 1 When a short-term test is conducted for a real estate transaction, an electronic continuous radon monitor or a charcoal canister is typically used to measure radon. 2  When a continuous monitor is used, the test results, with a printed report, are available immediately upon completion of the test.
Step 1. Take a short-term radon test. If your result is 4 pCi/L or higher, take a follow up test to be sure. Step 2. Depending on the results of your first test, follow up with either a long-term test or a second short term test. Short-term tests last from 2-90 days whereas long-term tests last from 91 days to 1 year. Various other dynamic testing methods are also available but are generally much more expensive to use. 1  Learn more about types of radon tests. 2  Order a radon test kit online from the American Lung Association of Oregon.
Click here to learn about our Radon Reduction services. 1  How long does it take to perform a short-term radon test? 2  Typically, a short-term radon test remains in your home for a duration of 48 hours to 90 days, depending on the type of test device used. 1 When a short-term test is conducted for a real estate transaction, an electronic continuous radon monitor or a charcoal canister is typically used to measure radon. 2  When a continuous monitor is used, the test results, with a printed report, are available immediately upon completion of the test.
Charcoal Radon Test Kits. The quickest way to test for radon is with a short term charcoal radon testing kit. A short term radon test kit remains in your home for three to seven days. Follow-up with either a long term test or a second short term test: 1  For a better understanding of your year-round average radon level, use a long term alpha track radon test kit. 2  If you need results quickly, use a second short term charcoal
If your result is 4 pCi/L or higher take a follow-up test. Step 2. Conduct a follow-up test with either a long-term test (90 days to one year) or a second short-term test. Step 3. If you followed up with a long-term test: consider fixing your home if the result is 4 pCi/L or higher. 
It is important that either the professional service or home test kit be EPA-approved. Because radon levels can vary from day to day and from season to season, testing can be done on the short-term (two to 90 days) or long-term (greater than three months). Short-term tests are best done if the results are needed quickly and should be followed by another short-term test. Long-term tests will yield better information on a home's average year-round radon levels. Radon test devices are placed in the lowest occupied level of the home. 
A short term test takes 48 – 96 hours. A long term test takes three months. We mostly provide short term tests by customer request, however if you have the time, a long term test is the better option. If you don’t qualify for the FREE Radon Test Program and don’t want to risk having to pay $100/$150, please see How to Radon test your home. 
Using a short term charcoal radon test kit, if your result is 4 pCi/L or higher (0.02 Working Levels [WL] or higher) take a follow-up test (Step 2) to be sure. Follow-up with either a long term test or a second short term test: 1  For a better understanding of your year-round average radon level, use a long term alpha track radon test kit. 2  If you need results quickly, use a second short term charcoal radon test kit.