ATP is Adenosine Triphosphate. It is used an energy carrier between cells. It is produced during photosynthesis and is an important part of the metabolism process. Just like in animals, ATP created by the cell and used as an energy source.
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP.
Role of extracellular ATP in plants. ATP is a ubiquitous compound in all living cells; it not only provides the energy to drive many biochemical reactions, but also functions in signal transduction as a substrate for kinases, adenylatecyclases, etc. 
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. 
1 Most cells use ATP as their main form of energy. 2  Most eukaryotic cells, including plant cells, get their ATP from the process of cellular respiration. 3  Cellular respiration takes place in the mitochondria. 1 Cellular respiration takes place in the mitochondria. 2  Following this logic, if plant cells use ATP, and ATP is made in the mitochondria, then plant cells must have mitochondria. 3  Plants need to do something with all that glucose they make!
The sugar glucose is important because it is necessary for cellular respiration. During cellular respiration, the chemical energy in the glucose molecule is converted into a form that the plant can use for growth and reproduction. 
Answers. Best Answer: Light is used in a plant for photosynthesis, where its energy use used to bond hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen together to make glucose. If ATP is like 1 dollar of energy, then glucose is like a 1,000 dollar bill. It's not good for everyday purposes, but it's good for storing large amounts of energy. When a plant needs ATP, it takes some of the glucose it's stored up (1 X $1000), and uses a mitochondrion to break the glucose up and use its energy to make ATP (1000 X $1) for use in the cell.
Cellular respiration is the process by which the chemical energy of food molecules is released and partially captured in the form of ATP. Carbohydrates, fats, and proteins can all be used as fuels in cellular respiration, but glucose is most commonly used as an example to examine the reactions and pathways involved. 
First, we need to know what ATP really is-chemically, it is known as adenosine triphosphate. ATP is a usable form of energy for cells-the energy is trapped in a chemical bond that can be released and used to drive other reactions that require energy (endergonic reactions). 