1 Follower. A. The difference between Percocet and oxycodone is that percs have Tylenol in them & oxycodone doesn't. They are both made out of oxycodone which is made from a derivative called THEBAINE which is extracted from the roots of the opium poppy plant. They both should come back as oxycodone in a drug test. 
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Oxycodone is a strong narcotic pain-reliever and cough suppressant similar to morphine, codeine, and hydrocodone. The precise mechanism of action is not known but may involve stimulation of opioid receptors in the brain. 
Percocet Abuse Facts. Percocet Abuse Facts. FACT: Percocet is a combination of oxyodone and Acetaminophen. The Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is a common pain reliever, but the addition of the oxycodone, an opiate, makes Percocet far more powerful. FACT: Percocet has been proven effective for moderate to severe main and is commonly used to help cancer patients. FACT: Percocet, like other opiate pain medications, is highly addictive and widely abused. FACT: Prolonged use of Percocet can lead to the user craving the drug.
Oxycodone is the name of the generic drug. Purdue Pharma branded the name, Oxycontin. The drug is also called Percocet (this is combine with acetaminophen and paracetamol) , Percodan (this is combined with aspiring) , Roxicodone, and OxyNorm; many of these names have been copyrighted by pharmaceutical companies. 9. Oxycodone: The Drug. Oxycodone is a prescription in the narcotic family used to relieve moderate to severe pain. Oxycodone is a semi-synthetic opioid derived from a thebaine, which is a derivative of opium.
Answer by Maximilian333. Confidence votes 2.0K. Percocet is the commercial trade name for a drug which is a combination of Oxycodone/hydromorphone and acetaminophen (the active drug used in Tylenol). acetaminophen is used in Percocet and other similar drugs because it potentiates the effects of opioid pain killers. Percocet is a brand name drug (by Endo), containing oxycodone and acetaminophen (APAP). Oxycodone is an opioid (narcotic), and acetaminophen is a weak analgesic that, when tak … en with oxycodone, provides greater analgesia than either drug alone.
Oxycodone is available as single-ingredient medication in immediate release and controlled release. Parenteral formulations of 10 mg/mL and 50 mg/mL are available in the U.K. for IV/IM administration. Oxycodone is in Schedule I (derived from the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs) of the Commonwealth's Narcotic Drugs Act 1967. In addition, it is in Schedule 8 of the Australian Standard for the Uniform Scheduling of Drugs and Poisons (Poisons Standard), meaning it is a controlled drug...
FACT: Percocet addiction usually develops over time, but it is characterized by the inability of the person to stop using. FACT: Percocet addiction is a brain disease. FACT: Addiction to Percocet and other substances is not curable, but it is manageable through treatment and recovery programs. FACT: Percocet has been proven effective for moderate to severe main and is commonly used to help cancer patients. FACT: Percocet, like other opiate pain medications, is highly addictive and widely abused. FACT: Prolonged use of Percocet can lead to the user craving the drug.