Peripheral Vascular Disease Overview. Peripheral vascular disease, also called PVD, refers to any disease or disorder of the circulatory system outside of the brain and heart. The term can include any disorder that affects any blood vessels. It is, though, often used as a synonym for peripheral artery disease. PVD is the most common disease of the arteries. The build-up of fatty material inside the vessels, a condition called atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries, is what causes it.
PVD coatings are hard thin film coatings deposited from a physical source as opposed to a chemical one. They are deposited in a vaccuum chamber and are usually carbides, nitrides, borides and silicides of the IVth, Vth and VIth groups of the periodic table. PVD coatings deposited using vacuum coating machines are used in a vast array of industries and hundreds if not thousands of applications as diverse as “self-cleaning” windows, jewelry, medical implants, PVD Chrome wheels, cutting tools, decorative fittings PVD Coating watches and Formula 1 racing parts.
Physical Vapor Deposition, or PVD, is a term used to describe a family of coating processes. The most common of these PVD coating processes are evaporation (typically using cathodic arc or electron beam sources), and sputtering (using magnetic enhanced sources or “magnetrons”, cylindrical or hollow cathode sources). 
Physial vapor deposition (PVD) is a generic term for vacuum plating processes involving bombardment of the surface by energetic ions to enhance coating adhesion and improve coating structure. It is a common industrial process. Tolerances: PVD coatings are too thin to affect part tolerances, and in general will reflect the surface roughness of the base material. However, it is often necessary to plate the part surface with nickel and chromium prior to applying the PVD coatings. The combination can be thick enough to affect tolerances.
PVD Coatings. Welcome to the website devoted to PVD Coatings, Physical Vapour Deposition a group of vacuum coating techniques that are used to deposit thin film coatings that enhance the properties and performance of tools and machine components. PVD coatings deposited using vacuum coating machines are used in a vast array of industries and hundreds if not thousands of applications as diverse as “self-cleaning” windows, jewelry, medical implants, PVD Chrome wheels, cutting tools, decorative fittings PVD Coating watches and Formula 1 racing parts.
Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD) is a time tested proven technology that has been used for decades in other industries. It is now available for automotive wheels. This new state of the art process provides a superior alternative to traditional “Chrome Plating”. We guarantee the coating for (5) five full years. The PVD process is an environmentally friendly method of producing a bright wheel finish that is more durable than traditional chrome plating. PVD finish is also OEM approved.
PVD: Process flow diagram. Physical vapor deposition (PVD) describes a variety of vacuum deposition methods which can be used to produce thin films. PVD uses physical process (such as heating or sputtering) to produce a vapor of material, which is then deposited on the object which requires coating. PVD is used in the manufacture of items which require thin films for mechanical, chemical or electronic reasons. Inside the Plasma Spray-Physical Vapor Deposition, or PS-PVD, ceramic powder is introduced into the plasma flame, which vaporizes it and then condenses it on the (cooler) workpiece to form the ceramic coating.
PVD process is very competitive with alternative technologies like. E-coating, Powder Coating and Electroplating. Any material electroplated with Nickel/Chrome or Stainless Steel best support PVD Coatings. The most common chrome plated materials are Brass, Zinc, Steel, Aluminum and ABS plastic. PVD will not dull or enhance the appearance of your product.
Physical Vapor Deposition, or PVD, is a term used to describe a family of coating processes. The most common of these PVD coating processes are evaporation (typically using cathodic arc or electron beam sources), and sputtering (using magnetic enhanced sources or magnetrons, cylindrical or hollow cathode sources). 