Eukaryotes. Eukaryotes are organisms made up of cells that possess a membrane-bound nucleus (that holds genetic material) as well as membrane-bound organelles. Genetic material in eukaryotes is contained within a nucleus within the cell and DNA is organized into chromosomes. Eukaryotes are organisms made up of cells that possess a membrane-bound nucleus (that holds genetic material) as well as membrane-bound organelles. The cell is a fundamental component of our modern definition of life and living things.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Prokaryotic cells are primitive cells that lack a nucleus. Instead of storing genetic material in well-organized chromosomes protected by a membrane-bound nucleus, prokaryotes store their genetic material in an irregularly shaped nucleoid that is composed of 60% DNA. 
Prokaryotic Cell Structure. Prokaryotic cells are not as complex as eukaryotic cells. They have no true nucleus as the DNA is not contained within a membrane or separated from the rest of the cell, but is coiled up in a region of the cytoplasm called the nucleoid. Prokaryotic organisms have varying cell shapes. The most common bacteria shapes are spherical, rod-shaped, and spiral.
These two groups are the prokaryotes and the eukaryotes. Prokaryotes are organisms made up of cells that lack a cell nucleus or any membrane-encased organelles. Eukaryotes are organisms made up of cells that possess a membrane-bound nucleus (that holds genetic material) as well as membrane-bound organelles. The cell is a fundamental component of our modern definition of life and living things.
Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes. This is one of many pieces of evidence that mitochondria and chloroplasts are themselves descended from free-living bacteria.
Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, including a nucleus. Eukaryotes can be single-celled or multicelled, such as you, me, plants, fungi, and insects. Bacteria are an example of prokaryotes. Prokaryotic cells do not contain a nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelle. Both eukaryotes and prokaryotes have ribosomes. Ribosomes are not a membrane-bound organelle, but in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, they are used for translation of RNA into proteins. Eukaryotes and prokaryotes can both perform transport, DNA replication, transcription, translation, and movement.
The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA. 
Prokaryotes are organisms made up of cells that lack a cell nucleus or any membrane-encased organelles. This means the genetic material DNA in prokaryotes is not bound within a nucleus. Additionally, the DNA is less structured in prokaryotes than in eukaryotes. In prokaryotes, DNA is a single loop. Eukaryotes are organisms made up of cells that possess a membrane-bound nucleus (that holds genetic material) as well as membrane-bound organelles. The cell is a fundamental component of our modern definition of life and living things.
Prokaryotic Cells. Bacteria are examples of the prokaryotic cell type. An example is E. coli. In general, prokaryotic cells are those that do not have a membrane-bound nucleus. In fact pro-karyotic is Greek for before nucleus. Besides bacteria, the cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) are a major group of prokaryotes. 