Lack of oxygen delayed animal life on Earth by AKIpress News Agency. The volcanic rock formations including the Samail ophiolite (a large slab of oceanic crust that is made of volcanic rocks and ultramafic rocks from the Earth's upper mantle, which was thrust onto the. 
♦ The crust that lies underneath the oceans is called oceanic crust, and is approximately 3 to 6 miles (4.8 to 9.7 kilometers) thick. It has a similar composition to that of continental crust, but has higher concentrations of iron, magnesium, and calcium. crust-form a crust or form into a crust; The bread crusted in the oven. change surface-undergo or cause to undergo a change in the surface.
crustal plate; plate (a rigid layer of the Earth's crust that is believed to drift slowly). Holonyms (Earth's crust is a part of...): geosphere; lithosphere (the solid part of the earth consisting of the crust and outer mantle). Meronyms (substance of Earth's crust): sial (the granitelike rocks that form the outermost layer of the earth's crust; rich in silicon and aluminum). sima (rock that form the continuous lower layer of the earth's crust; rich in silicon and magnesium). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind
The oceanic crust is part of the crust that is made fully out of basaltic rock and is several times thinner than the continental crust which is made out of granitic rock. Ocea … nic crust underlies Earth's oceans and is produced at divergent plate boundaries which are commonly referred to as mid-ocean ridges. The crust is the outermost chemical layer of the Earth, of hard and brittle rock, composed of oceanic crust and continental crust. The crust is typically about 23 miles thick … beneath continents, and about 6.5 miles thick beneath oceans.
Meronyms (parts of crust): asthenosphere (the lower layer of the crust). Meronyms (substance of crust): sial (the granitelike rocks that form the outermost layer of the earth's crust; rich in silicon and aluminum). sima (rock that form the continuous lower layer of the earth's crust; rich in silicon and magnesium). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of crust): 2. a hard outer layer that covers something. 3. the trait of being rude and impertinent; inclined to take liberties. Familiarity information: CRUST used as a noun is uncommon. • CRUST (verb). The verb CRUST has 1 sense: 1. form a crust or form into a crust. Familiarity information: CRUST used as a verb is very rare.
Oceanic crust. Oceanic crust is the part of Earth's lithosphere that surfaces in the ocean basins. Oceanic crust is primarily composed of mafic rocks, or sima, which is rich in iron and magnesium. 
The Earth's Crust   The crust is the top part of the Earth. It is where we live. The Earth's crust is 6 miles deep. That is the Earth's crust. If you have a pet snail, or have seen a snail in your garden with crust on the hole of it's shell, well, first, good job at being so observant! What you have discovered is a s … nail in hibernation! Yes, believe it or not, snails do hibernate
crust. The solid, outermost layer of the Earth. ♦ The crust that lies underneath the continents is called continental crust, and is approximately 22 to 37 miles (35.4 to 59.6 kilometers) thick. It consists mostly of rocks rich in silica and aluminum, with minor amounts of iron, magnesium, calcium, sodium, and potassium. crust-form a crust or form into a crust; The bread crusted in the oven. change surface-undergo or cause to undergo a change in the surface.