Vasopressin also raises blood pressure by narrowing blood vessels. Vasopressin is used to treat diabetes insipidus, which is caused by a lack of this naturally occurring pituitary hormone in the body. Vasopressin is also used to treat or prevent certain conditions of the stomach after surgery or during abdominal x-rays. Vasopressin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Follow your doctor's instructions about the amount of liquids you should drink during your treatment with vasopressin.
Vasopressin is a man-made form of a hormone called anti-diuretic hormone that is normally secreted by the pituitary gland. In the body, vasopressin acts on the kidneys and blood vessels. Vasopressin helps prevent the loss of water from the body by reducing urine output and helping the kidneys reabsorb water in the body. Vasopressin also raises blood pressure by constricting (narrowing) blood vessels
Vasopressin, also known as arginine vasopressin (AVP), antidiuretic hormone (ADH), or argipressin, is a neurohypophysial hormone found in most mammals. Its two primary functions are to retain water in the body and to constrict blood vessels. The magnocellular neurons that make vasopressin are adjacent to magnocellular neurons that make oxytocin, and are similar in many respects. The similarity of the two peptides can cause some cross-reactions: oxytocin has a slight antidiuretic function, and high levels of AVP can cause uterine contractions.
Vasopressin may be given IV/IO or by endotracheal tube. 40 units of vasopressin IV/IO push may be given to replace the first or second dose of epinephrine, and at this time, there is insufficient evidence for recommendation of a specific dose per the endotracheal tube. In the ACLS pulseless arrest algorithm, vasopressin may replace the first or second dose of epinephrine. 
It acts on the kidneys to reduce the flow of urine. Vasopressin injection is also used to increase blood pressure in adults with vasodilatory shock (eg, post-cardiotomy, sepsis) who remain to have low blood pressure after receiving fluids and medicines. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. This is a condition that causes the body to lose too much water and become dehydrated. Vasopressin injection is also used to prevent and treat abdominal or stomach distension that occurs after surgery. It is also used in abdominal or stomach roentgenography. Vasopressin is a hormone that is produced in the body.
The antidiuretic hormone (ADH) test is used to help detect, diagnose, and determine the cause of antidiuretic hormone deficiencies and excesses. Antidiuretic hormone, also called arginine vasopressin (AVP), is a hormone produced by the hypothalamus in the brain and stored in the posterior pituitary gland at the base of the brain. ADH helps regulate water balance in the body.
Descriptions. Vasopressin injection is used to control the frequent urination, increased thirst, and loss of water caused by diabetes insipidus. This is a condition that causes the body to lose too much water and become dehydrated. Vasopressin injection is also used to prevent and treat abdominal or stomach distension that occurs after surgery. It is also used in abdominal or stomach roentgenography. Vasopressin is a hormone that is produced in the body.
Vasopressin is used to treat diabetes insipidus, which is caused by a lack of this naturally occurring pituitary hormone in the body. Vasopressin is also used to treat or prevent certain conditions of the stomach after surgery or during abdominal x-rays. In the body, vasopressin acts on the kidneys and blood vessels. Vasopressin helps prevent the loss of water from the body by reducing urine output and helping the kidneys reabsorb water
Vasopressin is a man-made form of a hormone called anti-diuretic hormone that is normally secreted by the pituitary gland. Vasopressin acts on the kidneys and blood vessels. Vasopressin is also used to treat or prevent certain conditions of the stomach after surgery or during abdominal x-rays. Vasopressin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Follow your doctor's instructions about the amount of liquids you should drink during your treatment with vasopressin.
Vasopressin is a peptide hormone that increases water permeability of the kidney's collecting duct and distal convoluted tubule by inducing translocation of aquaporin-CD water channels in the plasma membrane of collecting duct cells. The magnocellular neurons that make vasopressin are adjacent to magnocellular neurons that make oxytocin, and are similar in many respects. The similarity of the two peptides can cause some cross-reactions: oxytocin has a slight antidiuretic function, and high levels of AVP can cause uterine contractions.