The half-life of a 10 mg dose of hydrocodone is about 3.8 hours (± 0.3 hours). This means that it takes almost 4 hours for the body to process this amount of hydrocodone and eliminate half of its compounds from the system.
Lortab is metabolized fairly quickly in the body. This is why it’s difficult to detect Lortab in someone who isn’t a heavy or habitual user, especially after more than 24 hours. However, some methods of testing such as hair sample drug screens can identify Lortab use for up to 3 months after last dose.
Hydrocodone is excreted in the urine and can be detected in urine drug tests. Hydrocodone is detectable in hair samples for several months after use. Acetaminophen’s half-life is 2-3 hours.
In about 8 hours, hydrocodone reaches its maximum concentration in the urine, after which, the levels begin to significantly decrease. In this case, it only depends on the quantity that a person takes, so that a urine test will detect hydrocodone. In general, it is detectable for about 6 to 24 hours after ingestion.
42. Lortab is most likely to be found on a drug test or opiate screen if you’ve taken Lortab within the last 24 hours. After that, the amounts of Lortab metabolites in blood and urine are low enough that many labs won’t pick up on them.
A 10 mg dose of hydrocodone, has a half life of a bit under 4 hours, and it reaches the peak level after only 70 to 80 minutes.
Hydrocodone has a half-life of 3 to 4 hours; that’s how long it takes the body to eliminate half of the drug from the bloodstream. It takes several half-lives to eliminate all the hydrocodone. A small fraction may still be present in the blood a day or so after taking one pill.
Peak levels and half life of Lortab. The half life for the hydrocodone in Lortab in the typical adult is just under 4 hours. Hydrocodone reaches its peak level in the blood after about 1.3 hours. However, the amount of Lortab in someone’s system will vary on the amount of the medication taken.
Hydrocodone stays in your system for three to four days. If you are about to take a urine test, you should know that Hydrocodone will stay in your urine for that period of time. If your doctor has prescribed you this drug, you are probably well informed about its possible side effects.