Foliated Metamorphic Rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks are formed within the Earth's interior under extremely high pressures that are unequal, occurring when the pressure is greater in one direction than in the others (directed pressure). 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Tatgus. Confidence votes 47. Metamorphic rocks form deep in the earth where high temperature, great pressure, and chemical reactions cause one type of rock to change into another type of rock. Metamorphic rocks begin to form at 12-16 kilometers beneath the earth's surface. 
Metamorphic. When rocks are heated up or put under a lot of pressure, they can change drastically. This is because the minerals that make up the rocks form only at certain temperatures and pressures. At high temperatures or pressures, the elements will rearrange their crystal structure to form a different mineral.
Report Abuse. Metamorphic rocks come from the zone between magma and the crust. They form from heat and pressure changing the original or parent rock into a completely new rock. I hope this helps! 
Metamorphic minerals are those that form only at the high temperatures and pressures associated with the process of metamorphism. These minerals, known as index minerals, include sillimanite, kyanite, staurolite, andalusite, and some garnet. Quartzite, a form of metamorphic rock, from the Museum of Geology at University of Tartu collection. Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form.
Uplift and erosion help bring metamorphic rock to the Earth's surface. Examples of metamorphic rocks include anthracite, quartzite, marble, slate, granulite, gneiss and schist. Anthracite is a type of coal with a high carbon count, few impurities and with a high luster (meaning it looks shiny). Marble is a metamorphic rock that is formed from the sedimentary rock limestone. Granulite is a metamorphic rock that is formed from the igneous rock basalt. Learn about sedimentary rocks, igneous rocks, other rocks and minerals or fossils. Make a fossil cast or check out our rock sorting lesson plan.
Metamorphic rocks form deep in the earth where high temperature, great pressure, and chemical reactions cause one type of rock to change into another type of rock. Metamorphic … rocks begin to form at 12-16 kilometers beneath the earth's surface. Metamorphic rocks are formed from igneous, sedimentary, or other metamorphic rocks.
Metamorphic rocks started out as some other type of rock, but have been substantially changed from their original igneous, sedimentary, or earlier metamorphic form. Metamorphic rocks form when rocks are subjected to high heat, high pressure, hot, mineral-rich fluids or, more commonly, some combination of these factors. Conditions like these are found deep within the Earth or where tectonic plates meet. 