When leaving a message for a friend, be casual, but not too funky. 1  Say Hi (friend's name) this is (insert your first and last name). 2  Say I just wanted to call you (why you called). 3  Say what you wanted to tell them. This person is not home right now, please leave a message after the beep and you don't know what to say? Here I will tell you exactly how to leave one so tongue tying moments will never cross you again!
4. Preview your recording. After you have recorded your voicemail greeting you have the option to preview it before saving. Listen to your voicemail to ensure that you have spoken in a clear and polite manner, and that you have included all the important information. 1  Remember, you want to include your name or your family’s name. Enter the voicemail setup function on your phone. Depending on your carrier and phone, there are several ways to record a new greeting. 1  If you’re on an iPhone and have iOS 8 or later, you can go into your “Phone” app and hit the “Voicemail” button.
Back in the old days it was possible to call your voice mail box, choose the right option, and enter someone's phone number to record a voicemail message without calling them directly. For us, you can just call your own number and it will immediately go to your voicemail and you can choose to send a message from option 2. You just need to remember the person's number as you will need to input that. 1  reply.
Report Abuse. All you need to do is call the voicemail for the various carriers. When you connect to each carrier you try leaving them a voicemail but putting in the phone number. Unless they have a uncommon carrier or software you should be able to find the carrier that goes with the phone number. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If they're on the same network as you, it's possible. Call your voicemail, and listen to the main menu. If it's available, it will be something like To send a voicemail, press 4.. You'll press whatever number she says, type in your friend's phone number and record your message. If you're not on the same network, you'll have to wait until they turn their phone off-or turn it off for them
If you wish to leave yourself a message, and not jump directly to the My Halloo Dialtone, you must temporarily disable your caller-ID on the telephone you are using to call Halloo. On most US phone systems, simply dial ‘*67’, then your Halloo phone number. This will temporarily disable caller-ID on your phone, and allow you to reach your voicemail recording prompt. Alternatively, you may permanently disable the detection of your own caller-id for My Halloo Dialtone, by doing the following: 1  Sign into My Halloo Web. 2  Click the User Settings tab of your extension.
Report Abuse. I know with Sprint/Nextel you just go into your own personal voicemail like you are checking your mail and there is an option (like press 1 to.. press 2 to...) to record a message. Well you go into that record the voicemail that you want to leave the other person. I have heard it refered to as the voicemail backdoor because you can leave someone a voicemail without their cell phone ever ringing. Does anyone know how to do this with other cell phone providers like US Cellular, Sprint, Alltel, or any other US cell phone providers? Thanks.
1 Note: The best voicemail message you can leave is one with a specific purpose that addresses the needs of your prospect or client, and offers them a solution that is worth them taking the time to call you back to learn more about. 2  Here is the classic template-adjust and adapt it to fit your product or service. 1 In this and all examples, leave your phone number SLOWLY:  2 Hi __________, this is ___________ with (your company). 3  I'm calling about your new office that's opening in Houston next month, and I wanted to provide you with some ideas that may help with your networking issues.
Photo by roujo. I’m not a big fan of voicemail. I don’t mind leaving voicemail messages; I just hate having to listen to them. For some strange reason when people know their voice is being recorded, their brain short circuits. What normally would take 30 seconds to say, now takes 2 minutes. I don’t mind it so much for people I know. 
1 Sample Voicemail Message #1: 2  Note: The best voicemail message you can leave is one with a specific purpose that addresses the needs of your prospect or client, and offers them a solution that is worth them taking the time to call you back to learn more about. 1 In this and all examples, leave your phone number SLOWLY:  2 Hi __________, this is ___________ with (your company). 3  I'm calling about your new office that's opening in Houston next month, and I wanted to provide you with some ideas that may help with your networking issues.