Pocky is a Japanese snack food produced by Ezaki Glico. Pocky was first sold in 1966, and consists of chocolate-coated biscuit sticks. It was named after the Japanese onomatopoetic word pokkin. The original was followed by almond coatings in 1971, and strawberry coatings in 1977.
Pocky (ポッキー, Pokkī, Japanese pronunciation: [pokːiː] (listen)) /ˈpɒki/ is a Japanese snack food produced by Ezaki Glico. Pocky was first sold in 1966, and consists of chocolate-coated biscuit sticks. It was named after the Japanese onomatopoetic word pokkin (ポッキン) . The bittersweet version of chocolate Pocky is known as Men's Pocky. Regional flavors of Pocky include grape (Nagano), yūbari melon (Hokkaidō), giant mikan (tangerine, sold in the Kyūshū region), powdered tea azuki bean (Kyoto), Kobe wine (Kobe), and five-fusion berry (Goka).
A favorite amongst hard-core Pocky fans the world over, Pocky Matcha blends the distinct flavor of finely powdered green tea (matcha) into a smooth green tea cream wrapped around a tasty, crispy cookie biscuit stick. Light and refreshing, it's the perfect combination of a delicate flavor with a satisfying crunch. 
Pocky can be found in dozens of varieties such as chocolate, strawberry, and almond. Some of the more unusual flavors include the seasonal flavors of honey (spring) and kiwifruit mango (summer). The bittersweet version of chocolate Pocky is known as Men's Pocky. Regional flavors of Pocky include grape (Nagano), yūbari melon (Hokkaidō), giant mikan (tangerine, sold in the Kyūshū region), powdered tea azuki bean (Kyoto), Kobe wine (Kobe), and five-fusion berry (Goka).
Ezaki Glico first released Pocky Chocolate in 1966, promoting it as the world's first chocolate stick snack. Through several brainstorming sessions and trial & error, the simple yet innovative idea of leaving a portion uncoated brought to the world, a new way of enjoying snacks. The snack with a 'handle'. 
Pretz (プリッツ, Purittsu) is a Japanese snack made by Ezaki Glico. Like Ezaki Glico's other popular snack, Pocky, Pretz is stick-shaped and comes with a texture similar to pretzels. Unlike Pocky, Pretz is dusted with seasonings instead of enrobed in a flavored fudge. Pretz comes in a few varieties and three sizes: Regular, Kid's, and Giant.
Introduced in 1966 as the world's first chocolate stick snack, Pocky Chocolate is a tasty, crispy cookie biscuit stick dipped in rich, dark chocolate cream with a unique handle.. Delicious alone or with coffee, tea, milk, or wine, Pocky Chocolate is the perfect every-day, all-occasion chocolate snack. Great to have around the house. With the no-mess handle on every Pocky stick, your kids won’t have chocolate all over their hands. And for the same reason, Pocky is also great for parties. Try it as a drink stirrer in a cocktail or in your morning cup of coffee or tea.
Pocky® is a snack food that originated in Japan. Manufactured by the Ezaki Glico Co., Ltd. — also known as simply “Glico, a confectionery business from Osaka — it is one of Glico’s most popular products. Generally, the treat is stick-shaped and made out of a pretzel-like biscuit. “Men’s Pocky®” — which is dipped in bittersweet chocolate — is another popular version of the snack, known as the “mature” version. While Pocky® is eaten by all age groups, it was first popularized by teenagers.
Pocky. Pocky is a Japanese snack food produced by the Ezaki Glico Company of Japan. It was first sold in 1965, under the name Chocoteck, and consists of a biscuit stick coated with chocolate. Pocky was an instant hit among Japanese teenagers, and brought in sales of 30 billion yen in its first two years. In Malaysia, Pocky was renamed by the Glico Company as Rocky, perhaps to avoid a vulgar word in Malay with similar pronunciation. Pocky has recently been marketed in America by LU, a company of the Danone Group. Outside of Japan, Pocky is fairly popular among Japanophiles and otaku (anime fans).