About Chalcedony-History and Introduction. Chalcedony is a gemstone species which belongs to the quartz group of minerals. Technically, chalcedony is the gemological term applicable for all varieties of quartz in cryptocrystalline form, which can occur in a wide range of different colors, sizes and patterns. Chalcedony quartz can typically be identified from other minerals through its composition (silicon dioxide), hexagonal crystal structure and superior hardness. Chalcedony is also known to possess slight piezoelectricity, similar to that of tourmaline, which means it can carry a small electrical charge.
You may be familiar with gemstone names such as agate, bloodstone, chrysoprase, carnelian, chert, flint, jasper, onyx, sardonyx, touchstone and petrified wood. They are all varieties of chalcedony stone. This article deals specifically with what is called Blue Chalcedony. What we non-scientific types of humans call Chalcedony, is actually a specific form of quartz, one who's crystals are so tiny they are hard to be seen by a normal microscope. On the Market, only solid colored stones that range from a soft gray to a very nice blue shade are sold as
The Mineral chalcedony. Chalcedony is not scientifically its own mineral species, but rather a form of Quartz in microcrystalline form. However, the name is an old name, and almost all mineral reference guides and collectors distinguish Chalcedony separately from Quartz. Chalcedony, being a microcrystalline variety of the mineral Quartz, does not occur in visible crystals. It occurs in botryoidal, mammilary, stalactitic, massive, nodular forms, as smooth rounded pebbles, as banded masses, as amygdules, and as the linings of geodes.
Chalcedony meaning. Chalcedony is a variety of the mineral quartz that occurs in in a great variety of colors inlcuding blue, lavender, white, buff, light tan, gray, yellow, pink, red or brown. If chalcedony is conspicuously color-banded, it may be called agate and with other minerals it has various other names including carnelian, mocha stone, onyx, bloodstone to name a few. Considered a sacred stone by the Native American Indians, chalcedony nurtures and promotes brotherhood and good will.
In jewelry usage, the name Chalcedony is usually applied only to the light blue translucent and waxy form. Other stones in this group are know as agate, jasper, petrified wood, bloodstone, petrified dinosaur bone, fire agate, tiger's eye, chrysocolla, chrysoprase, onyx, sardonyx, and carnelian. Native American Indians believed chalcedony was a sacred stone and used in the spiritual ceremonies of the tribe. It is thought to increase vitality, stamina, and endurance and to promote emotional balance and charity while relieving melancholy, fever, gallstones, and eye problems.
Chalcedony Jewelry. $4.99. Pink Chalcedony. Chalcedony is a variety of the mineral quartz that occurs in in a great variety of colors inlcuding blue, lavender, white, buff, light tan, gray, yellow, pink, red or brown. If chalcedony is conspicuously color-banded, it may be called agate and with other minerals it has various other names including carnelian, mocha stone, onyx, bloodstone to name a few. Considered a sacred stone by the Native American Indians, chalcedony nurtures and promotes brotherhood and good will.
Chalcedony is found in all types of colors, and its varieties are named based on color. The variety Agate is a multicolored form, well known for its distinctive banding patterns. Some forms of Chalcedony, such as Chrysoprase, are intensely colored, while others are light. 1 Chrysoprase-Apple green variety of Chalcedony. 2  Fire Agate-Form of Agate or Chalcedony that is iridescent with a play of colors or fire similar to that of Opal. 3  Fire Agates usually have botryoidal growth included in their interior. 4  The play of color is caused by inclusions of Goethite or Limonite.
Chalcedony is a catch all term that includes many well known varieties of cryptocrystalline quartz gemstones. They are found in all 50 States, in many colors and color combinations, and in sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic rocks. 
Chalcedony /kaelˈsɛdəni/ kælˈsɛdəni is a cryptocrystalline form of, silica composed of very fine intergrowths of the minerals quartz and. moganite These are both silica minerals, but they differ in that quartz has a trigonal crystal structure, while moganite is monoclinic. Chalcedony's standard chemical structure (based on the chemical structure of quartz) is SiO 2 (silicon dioxide). Chalcedony has a waxy luster, and may be semitransparent or translucent. It can assume a wide range of colors, but those most commonly seen are white to gray, grayish-blue or a shade of brown ranging from pale to nearly black. The color of Chalcedony sold commercially is often enhanced by dying or heating.