kalex. I've had samples made for me from Ulta on a few different occasions. If you want the best skin care help call ahead and find out what days/times their Dermalogica Rep (the one who does the treatments and facials) will be there. Hey all!!! I was just woundering if i go to an ulta store and ask a sale associate for a sample of a product will they give it to me like at sephora. I have been dying to try some Dermalogica products but want samples first. please help
Samples-It is not Ulta policy to give samples. Customers abuse them and don't return to purchase them. We provide ample opportunity for you to test our high end products and have a relatively flixble return/exchange policy. The cups with lids that Ulta has are for use in salon skin treaments. 
ULTA is a beauty superstore chain that has branches all around the US. We have scoured the web to help you find all the ULTA coupons and free samples available at this time. ULTA Brand Overview: ULTA Salon, Cosmetics and Fragrance, Inc., founded in 1990, is a beauty super chain store available across the country. 
ULTA Free Samples and Coupons. Get a free shampoo and blow out at Ulta salons Feburary 16-17. You’ll also get a free gift. ULTA regularly offers free product samples with no purchase required. These free sample offers are advertised in ULTA’s monthly mailer, so be sure to get on the mailing list! You’ll also get coupons by mail. ULTA has a rewards program which is free to join
Best Answer: The Ulta in my town wouldn't do that. But they didn't sell Dermalogica, and the only makeup they gave away was if they did a complimentary make up application with the product you want to try. For Dermalogica samples, if you go to the Dermalogica website, you can locate salons in your area that sells and/or uses it. They will sometimes give you samples to try, especially if you're willing to buy another product. Personal experience, I've used Sebum Clearing, and I had ridiculous acne, it was great for i
From my experiencee, Ulta has more of a Kung-Fu Death grip on their samples than Sephora does. I haven't asked for a sample out of a testere, but I get 'deer-in-the-headlights when I ask if they have any samples to give me at check out. Hey all!!! I was just woundering if i go to an ulta store and ask a sale associate for a sample of a product will they give it to me like at sephora. I have been dying to try some Dermalogica products but want samples first. please help
Origins is always willing to give you samples of anything in the store as long as you ask. They carry the same little plastic sample things with lid that Sephora does, and unlike Sephora they are not stingy and fill them up COMPLETELY and most of the time they give me 2 of them. Younkers have a great gift from Clinique right now, $60 value with a $21.50 purchase. Also you can get your makeup done if you schedule an appoinment to see if you like the products. If you want a sample they have vials to put foundation or whatever in.
prettyinpa. Ulta gives free samples with purchase and free samples in store, but they don't make up samples of fragrance in store, the only samples they give out are prepackaged ones from the manufacturer, so often I don't get a sample of fragrances I would want to try and wear around before I purchase. Younkers have a great gift from Clinique right now, $60 value with a $21.50 purchase. Also you can get your makeup done if you schedule an appoinment to see if you like the products. If you want a sample they have vials to put foundation or whatever in.
Will Ulta, or perhaps Sephora, give out samples for this if I ask? I have tried asking for foundation samples at department stores before but I'm wondering if I can do that for the primer. Will Ulta, or perhaps Sephora, give out samples for this if I ask? I have tried asking for foundation samples at department stores before but I&#39;m wondering if I can do that for the...