Sunflowers belong to the family Asteraceae. With nearly 1,550 genera and approximately 24,000 species, this is the largest plant family. The orchid family (Orchidaceae) and legume family (Fabaceae) are the next two largest families. The common annual sunflower is arguably the most familiar sunflower, particularly in the West. The species grows 5 to 12 feet tall and has characteristic hairy, splotchy stems. The flower clusters are typically 3 to 6 inches across in species plants with dark yellow ray
The common sunflower (Helianthus annuus) grows wild in the western United States, Canada and northern Mexico. Many different cultivars that resemble the annual sunflower are available for garden use. The sunflowers belong to the largest plant family, which has a long list of characteristics. The common annual sunflower is arguably the most familiar sunflower, particularly in the West. The species grows 5 to 12 feet tall and has characteristic hairy, splotchy stems. The flower clusters are typically 3 to 6 inches across in species plants with dark yellow ray
The common name, sunflower, also applies to the popular annual species Helianthus annuus, the common sunflower. This and other species, notably Jerusalem artichoke (H. tuberosus), are cultivated in temperate regions as food crops and ornamental plants. Sunflowers are usually tall annuals, that grow to a height of 50–400 centimetres (20–157 in). The rough and hairy stem is branched in the upper part in wild plants but is usually unbranched in domesticated cultivars.
In biology, a phylum (/ˈfaɪləm/ ; plural: phyla) is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 35 phyla, Plantae contains 12, and Fungi contains 7.
Here's a possible solution for the common sunflower Helianthus annus * Kingdom: Plantae * Phylum: Magnoliophyta * Class: Magnoliopsida * Order: Asterales * Family: Asteraceae * Genus: Helianthus * Species: Helianthus annuus. Source(s): catme · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 
The Sunflower, scientifically named Helianthus annus, is of the family Asteraceae which is one of the largest families of flowering plants with over 20,000 species. Asteraceae are characterized by having a flower that forms a head or capitulum. 
Fruit: dry seeds produced in late Fall. Sunflowers (Helianthus sp.) belong to the largest order of flowering plants, the Compositae. Members of this order are characterized by the crowding together of individual flower heads. The heads of the flower are surrounded by tiny leaflets that protect forming buds. The flowers open in succession, beginning in the outer ring and moving inwards.
A phylum is the taxonomical rank below kingdom and above class. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 40 phyla. Organisms are grouped into phyla based on a general body … plan. A phylum is a group of animals that are directly drawn from a kingdom. A sub-phylum is a phylum that is slightly more accurate for a group of animals but is not a class.
Yes, you can definitly grow a sunflower from a sunflower seed. The whole reason the sunflower produces those sunflower seeds, is so that when the seeds mature and fall off the … flower, they grow new sunflower plants. Sunflowers only grow from a seed to maturity, and then to produce their own seeds once. A phylum is a group of animals that are directly drawn from a kingdom. A sub-phylum is a phylum that is slightly more accurate for a group of animals but is not a class.