EFT combines the physical benefits of acupuncture with the cognitive benefits of conventional therapy for a much faster, more complete treatment of emotional issues, and the physical and performance issues that often result. EFT is an emotional version of acupuncture, except we don't use needles.
EFT is a form of psychological acupressure, based on the same energy meridians used in traditional acupuncture to treat physical and emotional ailments for over five thousand years, but without the invasiveness of needles.
The Origins and Background. EFT-Emotional Freedom Techniques is a relatively new discovery and a fast-evolving treatment within the field of Energy Psychology which is catching the attention of healers, scientists, spiritualists and lay people.
Described as emotional acupuncture, it is one of the most effective ways to balance the body's energy system that I have experienced. EFT has been proven clinically effective as a simple yet powerful way of releasing fears, phobias, anxieties, angers, addictions, and all kinds of emotional and physical issues.
EFT, otherwise known as Emotional Freedom Techniques, is a type of Meridian Tapping that combines ancient Chinese acupressure and modern psychology with startling results.
Energy is the blueprint, the infrastructure, the invisible foundation for the health of your body. Your body is composed of energy pathways and energy centres that are in a dynamic interplay with your cells, organs, moods, and thoughts.
The EFT Tapping Basic Recipe is an easy to use healing tool that provides the very foundation for expanding your emotional freedom. It is the tapping procedure that we use in every round of EFT … it is easy to learn and easy to apply, which is why EFT has become well known as a tool that anyone can use.
Emotional Freedom Techniques is an Energy Psychology process developed by Gary Craig that works with the mind-body energy system to (often totally) eliminate all kinds of emotional, mental, physical and spiritual discomfort.