Atacama Desert. From the wildlife angle, Chile in Southern South America stretches in a north-south direction, called the spine of South America, has terrestrial borders with Argentina and Peru, and has long coast line of 6,435 metres (21,112 ft) on the South Pacific Ocean. Lapageria rosea (Chilean bellflower) is the national flower, Andean condor, (Vultur gryphus) (NT), is the national bird, and taruca or South Andean huemul, is the national animal of Chile.
The chili pepper (also chile pepper or chilli pepper, from Nahuatl chīlli [ˈt͡ʃiːli]) is the fruit of plants from the genus Capsicum, members of the nightshade family, Solanaceae. In Britain, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, India, and other Asian countries, the word pepper is usually omitted. 
Animals in Chile. The beautiful country of Chile is home to a variety of animals. Each species has adapted to each of the country's three main habitats consisting of the Andes Mountains, low coastal mountains, and the broad, fertile central valley. One of the animals found in Chile is the alpaca. Alpacas are similar to small llamas. These animals can be found grazing high on the Andes mountains. They are bred for their fur, which is used to make scarves, ponchos, hats and other items.
A high quality book featuring 81 newly commissioned, watercolour paintings showing the remarkable diversity of plants associated with the woods and forests of Chile. Included are many endemic species some of which are threatened with extinction. 1 Trees, shrubs, climbers, herbaceous and bulbous plant species, some of which have never been painted before. 2  Text that is non-technical and includes details about distribution, habitat, conservation, cultivation and uses. 3  Measures 420 x 300 mm, hard-back in a slip-case, with ca.200 pages (one fold-out), 81 plates.
The Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh (RBGE) in collaboration with the Universidad Austral de Chile (UACh) has developed effective strategies aimed at safeguarding the long-term future of some of the most threatened plant species from Chile’s forested regions. 1 Trees, shrubs, climbers, herbaceous and bulbous plant species, some of which have never been painted before. 2  Text that is non-technical and includes details about distribution, habitat, conservation, cultivation and uses. 3  Measures 420 x 300 mm, hard-back in a slip-case, with ca.200 pages (one fold-out), 81 plates.
Chile. Chile has a rich and distinctive flora with 2698 species of vascular plants found nowhere else by one count. Plant families unique to Chile include Lactoridaceae (Chilebosque) and Thyrsopteridaceae (flickr) from the Juan Fernandez Islands and Gomortegaceae (Flora Chilena) on the mainland.
This diversity is because Chile is a biogeographic island; bounded to the west by the Pacific Ocean, to the east by the high Andes and to the north by the Atacama Desert. However, much of Chile’s flora is under great threat, for example, estimates show a 40% decline in the forests of central and southern Chile. 1 Trees, shrubs, climbers, herbaceous and bulbous plant species, some of which have never been painted before. 2  Text that is non-technical and includes details about distribution, habitat, conservation, cultivation and uses. 3  Measures 420 x 300 mm, hard-back in a slip-case, with ca.200 pages (one fold-out), 81 plates.
Southern Hemisphere Plants of Chile, South America. Patagonia Plants brings you a wide selection of exclusive Chilean and Argentinean plants. We would like to introduce you to the wonderful flora of this fascinating part of the world. Patagonia Plants offers an extensive plant range from Chile and Argentina, in particular from the astonishing area Patagonia . 
Other striking plants confined to Chile include the Lantern Tree (Flora Chilena), the Chilean Blue Crocus (Kew), the Flame Nasturtium (ChileFlora.com), and the Ruil (Chilebosque). Plant families unique to Chile include Lactoridaceae (Chilebosque) and Thyrsopteridaceae (flickr) from the Juan Fernandez Islands and Gomortegaceae (Flora Chilena) on the mainland.