Shiplap siding is a type of exterior or interior paneling, most commonly made of wood, with tight joints that are formed by the overlap of one board on top of another. It is most often 3/4 of an inch or 1 inch thick and between 3 inches and 10 inches wide. A professional carpenter will cost more, between $25 and $50 per hour. Professional installation can thus significantly increase the cost of the project. Cost can be increased if the right tools are not already at hand for the job. A shiplap siding project requires a tape measure, a pencil, a saw, a hammer and nails.
The cost of prefinished wall paneling can vary wildly. Cheap 3/16 inch fake wood or patterned panels can cost around $10 per panel. A decent real wood veneer can soar to $40 each. It is common practice to put paneling over drywall. Two main reasons for that are fire rating and ability to spread adhesive evenly so panels don't bulge between studs. As a comparison, my drywall subcontractor charges me an average of $45 per sheet for 12 X 4 foot 1/2 inch rock, hung, taped, mudded, and sanded paint ready. This is really competitive with decent quality paneling, especially if you figure in a drywall untaped backer.
athensmomof3. Shiplap siding is lovely I think and can be used on a single accent wall, around a room or on a ceiling, either with or without beams. I have a picture of a great step down side porch which had been enclosed with shiplap siding and it was great :) You do have to put it over drywall. . . Jack Arnold does it some in his designs. It is used a lot in coastal applications but can work in many different areas. We used a 7 inch tongue and grove poplar and ran them horizontal. On any wall that was an exterior wall we had to have drywall behind the planking. Ours will be painted. Cost was $9.00 a square foot.I will try to post pictures later.
Shiplap is typically cut from pine or other inexpensive woods so costs stay low. Assuming a price of $1.00 per board-foot for a standard-grade product, $100 worth of shiplap siding will cover a 10-foot by 10-foot exterior wall. In addition to lumber cost, the project will also require stain or paint or sealant to protect the lumber from weather damage. A professional carpenter will cost more, between $25 and $50 per hour. Professional installation can thus significantly increase the cost of the project. Cost can be increased if the right tools are not already at hand for the job. A shiplap siding project requires a tape measure, a pencil, a saw, a hammer and nails.
Buy Wood and Cut Into Strips: To save money, we bought sheets of very thin plywood at Lowe’s for $13.97 a panel and had them cut it into 6″-wide strips for us at the store. The “real” shiplap boards cost $8.22/each, so it would have cost us over $400 to panel the room. With the plywood, we spent only $139. Julia-I love the look and the tutorial! This is very inspiring, as I think shiplap gives the walls texture and interest. What a clever way to achieve that feeling and – with a sensible cost! I predict that your son will want to study in here. Or chill out for hours. I cannot wait to see the rest of the room.
To save money, we bought sheets of very thin plywood at Lowe’s for $13.97 a panel and had them cut it into 6″-wide strips for us at the store. The “real” shiplap boards cost $8.22/each, so it would have cost us over $400 to panel the room. Julia-I love the look and the tutorial! This is very inspiring, as I think shiplap gives the walls texture and interest. What a clever way to achieve that feeling and – with a sensible cost! I predict that your son will want to study in here. Or chill out for hours. I cannot wait to see the rest of the room.
Cost of Drywall. Drywall materials average $0.25 to $0.65 per square foot, according to Cost Helper, as of 2011. This cost estimate commonly includes joint compound, tape, screws or nails. Red oak beadboard averages $11 per square foot; maple averages $18 per square foot -- and cherry averages as much as $22 per square foot, according to Cost Helper, as of 2011. To determine whether drywall or beadboard is less costly to install the size of the area, consider material and labor costs.
#3. To save money, we bought sheets of very thin plywood at Lowe’s for $13.97 a panel and had them cut it into 6″-wide strips for us at the store. The “real” shiplap boards cost $8.22/each, so it would have cost us over $400 to panel the room. With the plywood, we spent only $139. Julia-I love the look and the tutorial! This is very inspiring, as I think shiplap gives the walls texture and interest. What a clever way to achieve that feeling and – with a sensible cost! I predict that your son will want to study in here. Or chill out for hours. I cannot wait to see the rest of the room.
Assuming that 1 inch thick shiplap siding will be used, the number of board-feet required is the same as the area to be sided in square feet. A board-foot refers to the volume of a 1 foot by 1 foot by 1 inch piece of wood. A professional carpenter will cost more, between $25 and $50 per hour. Professional installation can thus significantly increase the cost of the project. Cost can be increased if the right tools are not already at hand for the job. A shiplap siding project requires a tape measure, a pencil, a saw, a hammer and nails.