catabolism (kətab´ōlizəm) , n the destructive processes (opposite of the anabolic-metabolic processes) by which complex substances are converted into more simple compounds. A proper relation between anabolism and catabolism is essential for the maintenance of bodily homeostasis and dynamic equilibrium. catabolism. any destructive process by which complex substances are converted by living cells into simpler compounds, with release of energy; the opposite of anabolism.
The various degradative pathways of catabolism are convergent. That is, many hundreds of different proteins, polysaccharides, and lipids are broken down into relatively few catabolic end products. The hundreds of anabolic pathways,however, are divergent. Catabolic and anabolic reactions are metabolic processes. Both the capture and use of energy by organisms involves a series of thousands of reactions (metabolism).
Report Abuse. catabolism is the breakdown of fats, proteins, polysaccharides into their subunits. In other words, it's normal metabolism whereby these items are broken down into amino acids, monosaccharides and fatty acids by AcetylCoA which feeds into the citric acid cycle of converting ADP to ATP. In other words, it's cellular metabolism. It's making big things into small ones. Anabolism is the opposite, it's using those building blocks to make things, like organs and tissues. So think of it this way, catabolism happens to what you eat.
Metabolism is usually divided into two categories: catabolism, the breaking down of organic matter by way of cellular respiration, and anabolism, the building up of components of cells such as proteins and nucleic acids. Usually, breaking down releases energy and building up consumes energy. Metabolism (from Greek: μεταβολή metabolē, change) is the set of life-sustaining chemical transformations within the cells of living organisms.
Thus, in contrast to the divergent reactions of anabolism, catabolism is a convergent process, in which many different types of molecules are broken down into relatively few types of end products. The energy required for anabolism is supplied by the energy-rich molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Report Abuse. Catabolism is the process of breaking down large molecules into smaller units while anabolism is the opposite since it takes the small molecules and builds it into more complex molecules.
Anabolism, or biosynthesis, is the process by which living organisms synthesize complex molecules of life from simpler ones. Anabolism, together with catabolism, are the two series of chemical processes in cells that are, together, called metabolism. Anabolic reactions are divergent processes. Report Abuse. Catabolism is the process of breaking down large molecules into smaller units while anabolism is the opposite since it takes the small molecules and builds it into more complex molecules.
Anabolism is the set of constructive metabolic processes where the energy released by catabolism is used to synthesize complex molecules. In general, the complex molecules that make up cellular structures are constructed step-by-step from small and simple precursors. Anabolism involves three basic stages. Metabolism (from Greek: μεταβολή metabolē, change) is the set of life-sustaining chemical transformations within the cells of living organisms.
Nutrients and tissues are broken down (catabolism), releasing energy which is utilized in the creation of new substances for growth and rebuilding (anabolism). metabolite any substance produced by a metabolic process. See also energy systems. catabolism. any destructive process by which complex substances are converted by living cells into simpler compounds, with release of energy; the opposite of anabolism.
Catabolism is the set of metabolic pathways which break down molecules into smaller units and release energy. In other words, it's cellular metabolism. It's making big things into small ones. Anabolism is the opposite, it's using those building blocks to make things, like organs and tissues. So think of it this way, catabolism happens to what you eat.
The sum of synthetic metabolic reactions. [G. anabolē, a raising up]. continuous series of chemical processes in the living body by which life is maintained. Nutrients and tissues are broken down (catabolism), releasing energy which is utilized in the creation of new substances for growth and rebuilding (anabolism). metabolite any substance produced by a metabolic process. See also energy systems. 