1 Use 1 1/2 cups of water or broth to 1 cup of lentils. 2  Add water or broth to a saucepan and if desired add flavorings, such as herbs, garlic, and onions. 3  Do not add salt until the lentils are cooked because the salt will toughen them if added at the beginning of the cooking time. 1 Boil for 2 or 3 minutes and then reduce heat to a simmer. 2  Cook until tender. 3  Cook green and brown lentils for approximately 45 minutes and red lentils for 25 minutes.
1 If cooking on a High setting, halve the time. 2  Cook the lentils for 2 hours instead of 4 hours. 3  Do not stir the lentils as they cook. 4  Avoid removing the lid during the cooking process, only doing so once you are ready to test for doneness. Cook the lentils until they become tender without turning mushy. 1  This process usually takes about 4 hours, but the time may vary depending on how old the lentils are. 2  Older lentils may take up to 6 hours, while younger, fresher lentils may only need 3 1/2 to 4 hours. 3 
Lentils will vary in their cooking times depending on their variety and age so always check the packet. As a rough guide to cooking times: Green and Brown lentils: 35 – 45 minutes. Red Split lentils: 15 – 20 minutes. 
1 Lentils take less time to cook than beans or split peas, typically around 25 minutes. 2  Dried lentils don’t require soaking, but they do require sorting and rinsing. 3  Once you’ve measured the amount of lentils you need, put them in a strainer and sift through them with your fingers, looking for grit or small stones. 1 Pre-soaked beans will take one to three hours to cook, depending on the kind of bean. 2  Follow the package directions for stove-top cooking times. 3  Using a pressure cooker cuts down cooking time significantly. 4  Here’s a chart that shows how long it takes to cook various kinds of beans in a pressure cooker.
When the lentils are tender and can easily be mashed with a fork, they are done. It usually takes about 30-45 minutes for them to cook (older lentils take longer to cook, so it’s best to just test them to decide when they are ready), or 20 minutes if using the split red lentils. Add salt in about the last 15 minutes of cooking time, so when you think the lentils are starting to get soft. 
Split peas and lentils do not require soaking. They take a short amount of time to cook (about 20 minutes to 1 hour depending on the recipe). Dried beans on the other hand, do require soaking for at least 4 hours. (It is best to soak them overnight. 1 Pre-soaked beans will take one to three hours to cook, depending on the kind of bean. 2  Follow the package directions for stove-top cooking times. 3  Using a pressure cooker cuts down cooking time significantly. 4  Here’s a chart that shows how long it takes to cook various kinds of beans in a pressure cooker.
1 Older lentils may take up to 6 hours, while younger, fresher lentils may only need 3 1/2 to 4 hours. 2  If cooking on a High setting, halve the time. 3  Cook the lentils for 2 hours instead of 4 hours. 4  Do not stir the lentils as they cook. Cook the lentils until they become tender without turning mushy. 1  This process usually takes about 4 hours, but the time may vary depending on how old the lentils are. 2  Older lentils may take up to 6 hours, while younger, fresher lentils may only need 3 1/2 to 4 hours. 3
1 Cook the lentils for 2 hours instead of 4 hours. 2  Do not stir the lentils as they cook. 3  Avoid removing the lid during the cooking process, only doing so once you are ready to test for doneness. 4  Removing the lid causes the heat built up in the slow cooker to escape, which could delay and lengthen your total cooking time. Cook the lentils until they become tender without turning mushy. 1  This process usually takes about 4 hours, but the time may vary depending on how old the lentils are. 2  Older lentils may take up to 6 hours, while younger, fresher lentils may only need 3 1/2 to 4 hours. 3  If cooking on a High setting, halve the time.
Lentil Cooking. Lentils must not be overcooked or they will become soft and mushy. Different varieties require different cooking times. 1  Use 1 1/2 cups of water or broth to 1 cup of lentils. 2  Add water or broth to a saucepan and if desired add flavorings, such as herbs, garlic, and onions. 3  Bring water or broth to a boil and add the lentils. 1 Boil for 2 or 3 minutes and then reduce heat to a simmer. 2  Cook until tender. 3  Cook green and brown lentils for approximately 45 minutes and red lentils for 25 minutes.