Click the Tools button, and then click Internet options. Click the Programs tab, and then click Make default. Click OK, and then close Internet Explorer. You might need to repin Internet Explorer to the taskbar once you've set it as your default browser.
To save time when launching the browser, pin the program tile to your Start screen. Press the “Windows” key, type “IE” and then right-click “Internet Explorer” in the search results. Select “Pin to Start” to add the program tile to the
Once you set IE10 as your default browser, you should be able to launch the Metro version by opening the Start Screen and searching for Internet Explorer. Invoking your default browser from Metro apps or from the Start Screen will always open its Metro version (if one exists).
Hello cypherx1, Open the IE8 and size the window to your liking. Then hold down the CTRL key while clicking the “X” to close the program. This will set the IE window to open at this setting every time.
Internet Explorer 11 opens in full screen mode when it's set as your default Web browser. Using IE in full screen mode prevents Windows from switching to the desktop view and instead opens the application in the modern UI.
1. The full screen mode of Internet Explorer and Firefox almost behave the same way. Once you go full screen, just drag your mouse to the top of the screen and you get the address bar and close buttons. To make full screen the default in both IE and Firefox, 1  Open the Firefox or IE browser. 2  Press F11 to go full screen. 3  Drag your mouse to the top so the close button appears. 4  Just close the browser and open it again.
Step 3. Browse the Web and close Internet Explorer when you're finished. As long as you leave the browser in full-screen mode when you close it, it will be in full screen when you open it again. You can close Internet Explorer by closing all the tabs or by pressing and holding the Alt key and then pressing F4..
To make Internet Explorer your default browser. Swipe in from the right edge of the screen, and then tap or click Search (if you're using a mouse, point to the upper-right corner of the screen, and move the mouse pointer down, and then click Search). Enter Default programs, and then tap or click Default Programs.