1 Complete installation of laminate flooring is $7-$11 a square foot, including foam underlay and glue, or $1,000-$1,585 for a 12x12-foot floor. 2  HardwoodInstaller.com lists estimates for various installation tasks. 3  Fees in urban areas may be higher and rural projects can cost less. 
There are solid and engineered woods, and there are also site finished and pre-finished options too. For this discussion, we will consider the materials and costs for the installation of a prefinished hardwood floor in the average 250 square foot living room. This pricing will assume that the owner will want to keep costs low and will NOT cover such costs as: 
Typical Costs. The cost for installation of a hardwood floor is usually quoted on a per-square-foot basis. The total cost of a given floor can vary greatly depending on the cost of the flooring material you choose and your location, but you can expect the range to be between $5 and $10 per square foot. Because a well-finished hardwood floor requires careful craftsmanship and a relatively large amount of labor, the overall cost of a flooring project is divided almost equally between labor and material costs.
The cost of a hardwood floor can vary greatly depending on the type of wood you choose. Because a well-finished hardwood floor requires careful craftsmanship and a relatively large amount of labor, the overall cost of a flooring project is divided almost equally between labor and material costs.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Hardwood Floor Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Hardwood Floor ranges between $8.56 - $11.51 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Wood Floor! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Hardwood Flooring Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Wood Floor ranges between $8.21 - $11.04 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
Hardwood Flooring Installation Cost. As our hardwood flooring installation cost guide indicates, you can expect to pay roughly $4,840 for 500 square feet of materials, labor and delivery. When compared to other flooring options, such as tile or carpet, hardwood is more expensive. 
Hardwood flooring comes in many different forms, styles and required installation methods. So, the installation costs associated with installing your hardwood floors will vary depending upon the type of product you choose. The graphic above illustrates an average range of labor costs for the various types of work that may be necessary in an install. Use this as a guide to help you determine hardwood flooring installation costs for your project. You may also find our handy dandy cost estimator useful for this exercise as well.