The xiphoid process /ˈzaɪfɔɪd/ , or xiphisternum or metasternum, is a small cartilaginous process (extension) of the lower part of the sternum which is usually ossified in the adult human. It may also be referred to as the ensiform process. In newborns and young (especially slender) infants, the tip of the xiphoid process may be both seen and felt as a lump just below the sternal notch. By age 15 to 29, the xiphoid usually fuses to the body of the sternum with a fibrous joint. Unlike the synovial articulation of major joints, this is non-movable
The sternum or breastbone is a long flat bone shaped like a necktie located in the center of the chest. It connects to the ribs via cartilage, forming the front of the rib cage, and thus helps to protect the heart, lungs, heart and major blood vessels from injury. 
Clinically, the xiphoid process plays an important role as a bony anatomical landmark in the trunk and may be damaged by improperly administered CPR. The xiphoid process is located inferior to the body of the sternum. The xiphoid process is the smallest and most inferior region of the sternum, or breastbone. At birth, it is a thin, roughly triangular region of cartilage that slowly ossifies into a bone and fuses with
In anatomy, a process is a projection or outgrowth from another body part. The xiphoid process is a small cartilaginous or bony projection from the lowermost portion of the sternum (breastbone). It is also called the xiphisternum or the xiphisternal bone. The xiphoid process is a small extension protruding downward from the site where the lowermost ribs join the sternum. You can feel your xiphoid process by feeling your lowermost rib and following it to your chest; the xiphoid process is just below that.
Sternum. The sternum, or breastbone, is a flat bone at the front center of the chest. The ribs and sternum make up what is called the ribcage.. The ribcage protects the lungs, blood vessels, and heart, along with parts of the spleen, stomach, and kidneys from traumatic injury. The sternum is attached to the first seven ribs and also to the clavicle, or collarbone. The sternum is made up of three parts called the manubrim, the body, and the xiphoid process. In adults, the sternum portions are fused. The top of the sternum is the manubrim, or handle. It is connected to the first two ribs and is not completely rigid
It rests at the 10th thoracic vertebra. It is the tiniest and lowest part of the sternum. Unlike the other two parts of the sternum namely manubrium and body, there are costal cartilages and ribs that are attached to the xiphoid process. Picture 1: Sternum lies on the anterior midline aspect of the thoracic wall. There are three parts: manubrium (green), body (blue), and xiphoid process (violet). Image Source: wikipedia.org. Picture 2: The xiphoid process is colored red.
The sternum is a natural ‘shield’ that protects the important organs in the thoracic cavity – the heart and great blood vessels. It has three parts known as the manubrium (top), body of the sternum (middle) and xiphoid process (bottom). The second rib is attached to the sternum at the junction of the manubrium and sternal body. The bottom of the manubrium has a small facet which is continuous with a small facet at the top of the sternal body to accommodate the costal cartilage of the second rib.
Click to read more below. The xiphoid process is the smallest and most inferior region of the sternum, or breastbone. At birth, it is a thin, roughly triangular region of cartilage that slowly ossifies into a bone and fuses with the body of the sternum