a body of people delegated to perform some function. ethics committee a group of individuals formed to protect the interests of patients and address moral issues. It normally includes a board member of the institution, a lay person, and an administrator. A member of the clergy may also be included, as well as an ethicist if one is available
Human Research Ethics Committee (HRECs) play a central role in the Australian system of ethical oversight of research involving humans. HRECs review research proposals involving human participants to ensure that they are ethically acceptable and in accordance with relevant standards and guidelines. 
(March 2014). An institutional review board (IRB), also known as an independent ethics committee (IEC), ethical review board (ERB), or research ethics board (REB), is a committee that has been formally designated to approve, monitor, and review biomedical and behavioral research involving humans. In the United States, IRBs are governed by Title 45 Code of Federal Regulations Part 46. These regulations define the rules and responsibilities for institutional review, which is required for all research that receives support, directly or indirectly, from the United States federal government.
1 Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research. Health Economics. 1  Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research.
Definition. 1  Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research. Health Economics. 1  Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research.
Detail. This document is the policy of the UK health departments, describing what is expected from the research ethics committees that review research proposals relating to areas of the departments’ responsibility. It also explains when review by these committees is required. Research and innovation in health and social care. Describes what is expected from health research ethics committees when reviewing research proposals.
Ethics Committee. 1  Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research. Health Economics. 1  Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research.
research ethics committee. A committee found in all institutions that conduct research on living organisms, and from which all research on human tissue must be approved. RECs have lay and professional member and are overseen by National Research Ethics Service, which is part of the NHS National Patient Safety Committee. REC Remit
Ethics Committee. The Ethics Committee is a Standing Committee of the Board of Trustees. It promotes the ethical practice of psychology and is responsible for the Code of Ethics and Conduct and other ethical guidance within the Society. Its main responsibilities are: 1  Promoting the ethical practice of psychology; 2  Providing guidance to members on ethical matters relating to psychology;