Protein is responsible for rebuilding your muscle tissues after exercise and also plays a minor role in producing energy under more extreme training conditions. The complete proteins we consume (e.g. meats, fish, dairy, eggs, etc.) are made up of the same amino acids that make up our muscles. 
Proteins are molecules made of amino acids. They are coded for by our genes and form the basis of living tissues. They also play a central role in biological processes. For example, proteins catalyse reactions in our bodies, transport molecules such as oxygen, keep us healthy as part of the immune system and transmit messages from cell to cell. Video: Role of proteins in human development. Each protein has a specific role in our body. However, scientists have discovered that some proteins perform more than 1 role. For example, Dr Julia Horsfield leads the Chromosome Structure and Development Group at the University of Otago.
There is protein in every single cell in your body – from your hair to your nails to your muscles and organs. These proteins are known as structural proteins; they quite literally provide the structure for your body. Without them, you could not walk, run or even stand. Protein is considered a macronutrient, which means that your body needs it in large amounts every day to function properly. When you eat protein, your body breaks it down into amino acids that are used for several purposes.
Scientists now recognize the crucial role that nutrition plays in supporting immune function. Nutrition authorities have long acknowledged the importance of macronutrients–adequate intake of protein and calories in maintaining the body’s defenses. 
The AIRE gene provides instructions for making a protein called the autoimmune regulator. This protein is active primarily in the thymus, which is a gland located behind the breastbone that plays an important role in immune system function. Specifically, the thymus produces infection-fighting cells called T cells. 
Proteins are also part of antibodies, interferon and complement proteins that support immune system cells or attack viruses, bacteria or other foreign substances in your body. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: nucleic acids contain genetic information. they are used in protein synthesis and reproduction of the cell it is in. Nucleic acids code for proteins to be produced in the body. These proteins can be used to make the cell, act as enzymes in important reactions, repair the cell etc. Nucleic acids are also used in the reproduction of the cell it is found in. In mitosis, the DNA is copied so produce 2 daughter cells identical to the orginal
The T helper cells (Th cells) are a type of T cell that play an important role in the immune system, particularly in the adaptive immune system. They help the activity of other immune cells by releasing T cell cytokines. These cells help suppress or regulate immune responses. Mature T h cells express the surface protein CD4 and are referred to as CD4+ T cells. Such CD4 + T cells are generally treated as having a pre-defined role as helper T cells within th
Immune Function. Your immune system relies heavily on proteins. When your body is exposed to potentially harmful substances, such as bacteria or a virus, your immune system sends out proteins called antibodies. These antibodies seek out and attack the virus or bacterium in an attempt to neutralize it and prevent it from multiplying and causing illness. Protein is considered a macronutrient, which means that your body needs it in large amounts every day to function properly. When you eat protein, your body breaks it down into amino acids that are used for several purposes.