1 TTN was the only gene with inplicated rare variants that occurred in multiple DCM families and A region (chr9q21.11-q22.31) with no known DCM genes with a maximum heterogeneity logarithm of odds score of 1.74. 1 Heterozygous TTN truncating mutations may not manifest unless associated with a second mutation in novel forms of core myopathy with heart disease. 2  Mutations in titin were found to cause familial restrictive cardiomyopathy.
Titin /ˈtaɪtɪn/ , also known as connectin, is a protein that, in humans, is encoded by the TTN gene. Titin is a giant protein, greater than 1 µm in length, that functions as a molecular spring which is responsible for the passive elasticity of muscle. Furthermore, the gene for titin contains the largest number of exons (363) discovered in any single gene, as well as the longest single exon (17,106 bp).
tibial muscular dystrophy-caused by mutations in the TTN gene. Several mutations in the TTN gene have been identified in people with tibial muscular dystrophy, a condition that primarily affects the muscles at the front of the lower leg. The TTN gene belongs to a family of genes called fibronectin type III domain containing (fibronectin type III domain containing). It also belongs to a family of genes called immunoglobulin superfamily, immunoglobulin-like domain containing (immunoglobulin superfamily, immunoglobulin-like domain containing)
After myosin and actin, titin is the third most abundant protein in muscle and an adult human contains approximately 0.5 kg of titin. With its length of ~27,000 to ~33,000 amino acids (depending on the splice isoform), titin is the largest known protein. Furthermore, the gene for titin contains the largest number of exons (363) discovered in any single gene, as well as the longest single exon (17,106 bp).
Mutations in the TTN gene cause tibial muscular dystrophy. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called titin. Titin plays an important role in muscles the body uses for movement (skeletal muscles) and in heart (cardiac) muscle. Tibial muscular dystrophy is a condition that affects the muscles at the front of the lower leg. The signs and symptoms of this condition typically appear after age 35. The first sign is usually weakness and wasting (atrophy) of a muscle in the lower leg called the tibialis anterior.
TEXT. A number sign (#) is used with this entry because of evidence that familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy-9 (CMH9) is caused by heterozygous mutation in the TTN gene (188840) on chromosome 2q31. (2012) used next-generation sequencing to analyze the TTN gene in 203 individuals with dilated cardiomyopathy (CMD; see CMD1G, 604145), 231 with CMH, and 249 controls. The frequency of TTN mutations was significantly higher among individuals with CMD (27%) than among those with CMH (1%) or controls (3%).
At least one TTN gene mutation has been found to cause limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2J (LGMD2J). Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy is a group of related disorders characterized by weakness and wasting of skeletal muscles, particularly in the shoulders, hips, and limbs. The TTN gene belongs to a family of genes called fibronectin type III domain containing (fibronectin type III domain containing). It also belongs to a family of genes called immunoglobulin superfamily, immunoglobulin-like domain containing (immunoglobulin superfamily, immunoglobulin-like domain containing)
The TTN gene provides instructions for making a very large protein called titin. This protein plays an important role in muscles the body uses for movement (skeletal muscles) and in heart (cardiac) muscle. The TTN gene belongs to a family of genes called fibronectin type III domain containing (fibronectin type III domain containing). It also belongs to a family of genes called immunoglobulin superfamily, immunoglobulin-like domain containing (immunoglobulin superfamily, immunoglobulin-like domain containing)
Phenotypic Series. TEXT. A number sign (#) is used with this entry because of evidence that autosomal dominant dilated cardiomyopathy-1G (CMD1G) is caused by heterozygous mutation in the titin gene (TTN; 188840) on chromosome 2q31. (2012) used next-generation sequencing to analyze the TTN gene in 203 individuals with dilated cardiomyopathy, 231 with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (CMH), and 249 controls.