This can be normal. If you miss one menstrual period and you have not missed any pills, everything is probably fine. Just start a new pack of pills at the usual time. But if you are concerned, or skip 2 periods in a row, you’re still probably fine, but check with your health care provider and get a pregnancy test.
Many women often become surprised and even scared due to a missed period while on birth control. Often women will have a late period on birth control and not a missed period. If six weeks passes and a woman does not have a period or menstrual cycle, it’s considered a missed period, or amenorrhea. Having missed a period on birth control or not does not always mean a woman is pregnant
Missed or delayed periods are common in young women, especially in the early years of menstruation, and things like stress, weight loss, and too much exercise can make periods irregular. Also, several birth control methods can cause periods to stop and can even be designed for just that purpose. For most women, periods usually occur from 21 to 35 days apart. In young girls and teenagers, periods are commonly irregular and have cycles ranging between 21 and 45 days. Keep track of your periods on a calendar (which can help you and your doctor determine what pattern is normal for you). 1  Previous.
Pregnancy is the most common cause of a missed period. If you might be pregnant, treat yourself as if you are pregnant until you know for sure. Use a home pregnancy test as the first step to finding out whether you are pregnant. If you are not pregnant, other causes of missed or irregular periods include: 1  Excessive weight loss or gain. 2  Although low body weight is a common cause of missed or irregular periods, obesity also can cause menstrual problems. 3  Eating disorders, such as anorexia or bulimia
Discharge during your period. It’s normal to have vaginal discharge (secretions), and it’s normal for the discharge to change during the menstrual cycle. “A clear or creamy white discharge is normal, and often makes slightly yellowish stains on underwear,” says Dr Cassidy. Missing a period could mean that you’re pregnant. If you miss a period and you've had sex, take a pregnancy test to find out. “If you’re not pregnant and you miss two or three periods, seek medical advice
Periods last around three to seven days. The average menstrual cycle lasts 28 days, although it’s normal to have a cycle that's shorter or longer than this. Women's periods can change. This doesn’t necessarily mean there's a serious problem, but it does need to be checked. To get help, women should go where they feel most comfortable, says Dr Cassidy. Missing a period could mean that you’re pregnant. If you miss a period and you've had sex, take a pregnancy test to find out. “If you’re not pregnant and you miss two or three periods, seek medical advice,”
If you have missed your period, but you’re only a week late, try not to stress out. There’s a possibility that your period is just late. Obviously, you should take a home pregnancy test (or two or three) to ensure that you’re not pregnant. You’re not pregnant, but your missed period might be a hormonal imbalance. Or possibly because of all the exercising, stress and anxiety, it’s thrown your hormones out of whack. Once your stress levels decrease, I bet your periods will return. If they do not, you should go see a doctor.
References. A menstrual cycle is the time from the day a menstrual period starts to the time the next period starts. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. However, a normal cycle can be shorter or longer than this. It may be anywhere from 21 to 35 days long. Most periods last 3 to 5 days, but anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. 
You may be different: You may have more or fewer. Missed or irregular periods must be looked at in terms of what is normal for you. Menstrual periods are often irregular during the first few years after menstruation starts. It may take several years for the hormones that control menstruation to reach a balance. If you are not pregnant, other causes of missed or irregular periods include: 1  Excessive weight loss or gain. 2  Although low body weight is a common cause of missed or irregular periods, obesity also can cause menstrual problems.
Woman should also not that the pill is not 100% effective and a missed period while on birth control could be a normal pregnancy. Again, talk with your doctor about these options to see what’s best for you and your situation. Often women will have a late period on birth control and not a missed period. If six weeks passes and a woman does not have a period or menstrual cycle, it’s considered a missed period, or amenorrhea.