Requirements. Education. The first step in becoming a veterinary technician is to enroll in a certificate or associate’s degree program in the field. Some institutions require candidates to complete college-level coursework in microbiology, chemistry, biology and the humanities prior to admission. Training generally takes two years to complete
Passing a state exam assures the public that the veterinary technician or technologist has sufficient knowledge to work in an animal clinic or hospital. Candidates are tested for competency through an examination that includes oral, written, and practical portions. Depending on the state, candidates may become registered, licensed, or certified. Most states use the National Veterinary Technician exam. Employers recommend American Association for Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) certification for anyone seeking employment in a research facility.
Veterinary Technician. While veterinary technicians do not go through the required graduate program to become full-fledged veterinarians, many veterinary technicians can run medical tests, take x-rays and even administer medicine while under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian. 
Every state regulates veterinary technicians differently, but most candidates are required to take a credentialing exam. In most states, the test used is the Veterinary Technician National Exam (VTNE). Vet techs must become certified, licensed or registered to practice, depending on the state. 
How to Become a Veterinary Technician in 5 Steps. Research what it takes to become a veterinary technician. Learn about job duties, education requirements, licensing and job outlook to find out if this is the career for you. Step 4: Become Credentialed. Before you may work as a veterinary technician in the United States, you must earn a credential, such as a license, certification or registration. Each state has its own credentialing exam, which may include written, oral and practical components.
Required Education. To become a veterinarian, you'll need to complete several years of education and training. You'll need to earn a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degree and obtain a license. Many DVM graduates also choose to continue their training through internships and residency programs
Veterinary Technician Education Requirements and Training Info. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a veterinary technician. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and training to find out if this is the career for you. Educational Requirements and Training Information. A 2-year associate's degree in veterinary technology equips students with the knowledge and skills necessary to work as veterinary technicians. Alternately, an associate's degree program for animal science may offer veterinary technology as an area of emphasis.
To become a veterinary technician, you must be the graduate of a 2-year or 4-year program from an AVMA-accredited school. For a list of AVMA accredited schools, click here. Most states also require technicians to pass the Veterinary Technician National Examination (VTNE) to be considered credentialed. 