For this reason, it is clear that the first people to discover Uluru were the Australian indigenous people. Explorer William Gosse, of the South Australian Survey Department, is believed to have been the first European explorer to see Ayers Rock.
Tourism can often peacefully coexist with Aboriginal land, but sometimes is a threat to Indigenous interests. Uluru (formerly known as Ayers Rock) is one such example. For Aboriginal people Uluru is a sacred site and should be off-limits for non-Indigenous visitors.
Uluru, or Ayers Rock, is a completely natural monolith, formed over thousands of years by nature, not man. Incidentally, it is the world's second largest monolith, not the lar … gest.
The biggest threat to Uluru is erosion of the sandstone by wind and rain. But it is unlikely that this will appreciably diminish the size of the rock over the next 1000 years.
Threats to Lions. Lions are facing an indirect threat from climate change called co-infection. Lions periodically face outbreaks of the disease distemper, and usually weather them with little mortality. However, distemper outbreaks in 1994 and 2001 caused massive die-offs.
The Anangu people know how Uluru and Kata Tjuta were formed. This knowledge comes from the Tjukurpa, the stories and lore that explain and govern A n angu life. But much of it, particularly about Kata Tju t a, is sacred and cannot be presented here.
Here are ten of the most interesting and important threats to the company that could be worth $100 billion, with quotes from Facebook's own S-1 document.
Uluru is the traditional indigenous name for the monolith which was  later named Ayers Rock by European explorer William Gosse. Although  variously quoted as meaning Great … Pebble, Earth Mother or  Meeting Place, the name Uluru actually has no other meaning or  translation in English.
Other threats includes people bringing in non-native invasive plant species by seeds and spores on their clothing and when they grow they destroy the habitat of the native animals, tourist performed silly stunts breaking the sacredness of the rock and wild bush fires is a major threat, both man made and natural.
All parts of the rock of Uluru was believed to have been created in the Dreamtime by about 10 Dreamtime spirit people. Most of the southern face was created by the battle between the Liru (poisonous snakes) and the Kunia (carpet snakes).