Best Answer: You can put the ribs in a single layer in a roaster, add sliced onion, chopped garlic, salt and pepper; add about 1/2 inch of water, cover with foil and bake 45 min. to one hour. Try using the dry rub, and grilling them over in-direct heat for 2 or 3 hours. They will need to be basted with bbq sauce, and to be turned every 30 minutes. It also takes alot of gas, and is pretty costly, but turns out great. The longer you can cook them slowly, the better and more tender they will turn out.
1 When cooking ribs in the oven, place ribs on rack of a broiler pan. 2  Brush with KRAFT or BULL’S-EYE Barbecue Sauce, then bake at 350°F for 1 hour 15 min. or until ribs are done, turning and brushing occasionally with additional barbecue sauce. 3  Ribs are not just for grilling. how to grill ribs. 1  When grilling ribs, think “low and slow!” Grill ribs slowly on medium heat to avoid burning and to help keep them tender. 2  When grilling ribs, plan on a cooking time of 1 hour to 1 hour 30 min., depending on the size and type of ribs used.
6. BABY BACK PORK RIBS. About 24 hours before cooking ribs, prepare sauce. ... precook ribs before grilling or baking them, ... cover with foil. Bake ribs in a ... until time to grill or bake them. ... Makes 1 1/2 cups. 7. Rub racks of ribs on both sides ... to room temperature before cooking. Heat oven ... carefully in oven. Bake 1 hour until ...
Place the roasting pan into the oven and bake until the ribs are tender, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Preheat the grill to medium heat. Grill the ribs on each side for 15 minutes, watching and flipping when necessary, for 30 minutes total. Baste with Jamie's BBQ Sauce the last 10 minutes. 
1 To speed up the cooking time when grilling ribs, simmer the ribs in boiling water for 20 min. 2  before adding them to the grill. 3  Then, brush ribs with your favorite KRAFT or BULL’S-EYE Barbecue Sauce and grill 10 to 15 min. or until sauce is caramelized, turning and brushing occasionally with additional sauce. how to grill ribs. 1  When grilling ribs, think “low and slow!” Grill ribs slowly on medium heat to avoid burning and to help keep them tender. 2  When grilling ribs, plan on a cooking time of 1 hour to 1 hour 30 min., depending on the size and type of ribs used.
1 When grilling ribs, plan on a cooking time of 1 hour to 1 hour 30 min., depending on the size and type of ribs used. 2  To speed up the cooking time when grilling ribs, simmer the ribs in boiling water for 20 min. 3  before adding them to the grill. how to grill ribs. 1  When grilling ribs, think “low and slow!” Grill ribs slowly on medium heat to avoid burning and to help keep them tender. 2  When grilling ribs, plan on a cooking time of 1 hour to 1 hour 30 min., depending on the size and type of ribs used.
how to cook ribs in the oven. 1  When cooking ribs in the oven, place ribs on rack of a broiler pan. 2  Brush with KRAFT or BULL’S-EYE Barbecue Sauce, then bake at 350°F for 1 hour 15 min. or until ribs are done, turning and brushing occasionally with additional barbecue sauce. how to grill ribs. 1  When grilling ribs, think “low and slow!” Grill ribs slowly on medium heat to avoid burning and to help keep them tender. 2  When grilling ribs, plan on a cooking time of 1 hour to 1 hour 30 min., depending on the size and type of ribs used.
1 Place the ribs on a baking sheet, apply marinade liberally to both sides and bake for one hour in a 350-degree oven. 2  On a hot grill, cook ribs for between three and five minutes until one side is browned. 3  Flip the ribs and close the grill, leaving the vents open then continue grilling for an additional 10 minutes. 1 Place the ribs on the foil and bake them for two hours. 2  Preheat your grill to between 200 and 250 degrees Fahrenheit. 3  Arrange the charcoal at the outer edges of the grill or turn off a burner on the gas grill to create an uneven temperature on the surface.
On the top section(the part with the slits in it) lay out your ribs. You may add a rub or sauce at this time or leave them plain. Cover the pan with foil and fold edges under to seal in the steam as they cook. Place in oven at 300 degrees for 2 1/2 to 3 hours. Remove foil carefully as steam will be very hot. Now all the grease is down in the bottom pan with the water and the ribs are completely cooked and tender. All you need to do is finish them up on the grill or under the broiler with sauce. 