The average amount of syrup that can be made from this ten gallons of sap is about one quart. These amounts vary greatly from year to year, and depend upon the length of the season, the sweetness of the sap, and many complex conditions of nature, such as weather conditions, soil, tree genetics, and tree health. Maple syrup is traditionally made in a building called a sugarhouse - the name of the building comes from the time when most sap was actually turned into sugar. Sugarhouses vary in size and shape, each with its own character.
The sap either drips into a bucket or flows down a special tube to a holding tank. Drop after drop collect until there are gallons upon gallons of sap. Many gallons of sap are needed to make just one gallon of maple syrup. It can range from 35-50 gallons of sap, depending on how much maple sugar there is in the sap. All maple syrup has the same amount of maple sugar, but the maple flavor can be different as we shall learn. The sap is collected into a large holding tank and from there is fed into the sugar house (the place where the magic happens!). 
Spring’s warmer temperatures coax sugar maple trees to turn stored starch back into sugar. Sap is made as the tree mixes ground water with the sugar. The sap is mostly crystal clear water with about 2% sugar. It takes 40 gallons of sap to make each gallon of maple syrup which has a sugar content of 66.9%. A typical sugaring season lasts 4 to 6 weeks. In this beautiful woodland environment sugar maple trees await early spring. Sugar made by the leaves during summer is stored as starch in the root tissues. As winter loosens its grip in February, the sugarmaker taps the trees.
How Maple Syrup is Made. The maple syrup production process gets its start from one of nature’s true phenomena. In springtime, when the nights are still cold, water from the soil is absorbed into the maple tree. About 40 liters (10.5 gallons) of sap boil down to one liter (about .25 gallons or one quart) of pure maple syrup. For other maple products – butter, taffy, or sugar – the sweet syrup is further boiled in the evaporator to the temperature necessary to produce the different types of maple products. After evaporation, the finished products get bottled or canned, and are shipped to their final destinations
Maple syrup is a syrup usually made from the xylem sap of sugar maple, red maple, or black maple trees, although it can also be made from other maple species. In cold climates, these trees store starch in their trunks and roots before the winter; the starch is then converted to sugar that rises in the sap in the spring. A maple syrup production farm is called a  sugarbush  or sugarwood. Sap is often boiled in a  sugar house  (also known as a sugar shack, sugar shanty, or cabane a à), sucre a building louvered at the top to vent the steam from the boiling. sap
A maple syrup production farm is called a  sugarbush  or sugarwood. Sap is often boiled in a  sugar house  (also known as a sugar shack, sugar shanty, or cabane a à), sucre a building louvered at the top to vent the steam from the boiling. Sap maples are usually tapped beginning at 30 to 40 years of. age A maple syrup production farm is called a  sugarbush  or sugarwood. Sap is often boiled in a  sugar house  (also known as a sugar shack, sugar shanty, or cabane a à), sucre a building louvered at the top to vent the steam from the boiling. sap
Three species of maple trees are predominantly used to produce maple syrup: the sugar maple (Acer saccharum) , the black maple (A. nigrum) , and the red maple (A. rubrum) , because of the high sugar content (roughly two to five percent) in the sap of these species. A maple syrup production farm is called a  sugarbush  or sugarwood. Sap is often boiled in a  sugar house  (also known as a sugar shack, sugar shanty, or cabane a à), sucre a building louvered at the top to vent the steam from the boiling. sap