Radish may also refer to any member of the genus Raphanus (the radishes). For other uses, see radish (disambiguation) . The radish (Raphanus sativus) is an edible root vegetable of the Brassicaceae family that was domesticated in Europe in pre-Roman times. Radishes are grown and consumed throughout the world, being mostly eaten raw as a crunchy salad vegetable. They have numerous varieties, varying in size, flavor, color and the length of time they take to mature.
The root is used as food and also as medicine. Radish is used for stomach and intestinal disorders, bile duct problems, loss of appetite, pain and swelling (inflammation) of the mouth and throat, tendency towards infections, inflammation or excessive mucus of the respiratory tract, bronchitis, fever, colds, and cough.
Radish nutrition facts. Radish is one of the nutritious root-vegetables featured in both raw salads as well as in main recipes. This widely used root vegetable belongs to the family of Brassica. In Chinese culture, radish along with cabbage and soybean curd (tofu) has been believed as healthful and sustenance food
Edibility. Though the root is the main vegetable considered of the radish plant but the flowers, leaves and young pods are also edible. The leaves are widely eaten in many mixed vegetable and salads. Radish is eaten raw as well as cooked. Picture 5 – Radish Seeds. Edible Uses. 1  The root is the primary vegetable is the most common and nutritious edible part of the whole plant. 2  Leaves of this plant are also eaten as leafy vegetable. 3  Bulb of radish is mostly eaten raw in salad. 4  Young leaves are also eaten as sprouts. 5  It is a common ingredient in most European dishes.
Common Name: {Radish extract}. Whether or not you like the pungent taste of the radish, these root veggies have a number of skin benefits that make them a great additive to any skin care routine. Their natural red color indicates that they are packed with antioxidants, just like any dark-colored fruit or vegetable. Radish Root is being used as a preservative and is the best natural alternative to synthetic preservatives.
Sometimes referred to as European radishes or spring radishes if they are planted in cooler weather, summer radishes are generally small and have a relatively short three to four week cultivation time. 1  The April Cross is a giant white radish hybrid that bolts very slowly. Radishes are grown and consumed throughout the world, being mostly eaten raw as a crunchy salad vegetable. They have numerous varieties, varying in size, flavor, color and the length of time they take to mature.
The health benefits of radishes have been known for millennia. Radishes have been used as both a food product and a medicine since before the Roman Empire. Radishes are a root vegetable, originally cultivated as a crop in Europe and China. A member of the Brassicaceae – kale, broccoli, cabbage – family, the radish is a common vegetable consumed around the world because the plant is extremely fast growing. When seeds are planted, sprouts appear in as little as three days. 
Raw daikon root is a white fleshed radish that has a very mild taste and is very low in calories, coming in at around 6 calories per ounce. Because of the multitude of benefits it gives, daikon is considered a superfood. 
Radish Root is not just to used to benefit the face. It is also a Natural Alternative to Synthetic Preservatives. The next generation of skincare takes this unique ingredient to a whole new level. Radish Root is being used as a preservative and is the best natural alternative to synthetic preservatives. The extract is fermented microb just like they do with Kimichi (a fermented cabbage) and becomes a preservative