1 A DAW 2 means that the BRAND name medication is filled at the patients request. 2  a prescriber’s signature (a prescription is incomplete without this important part of the prescription.). 3  the prescribers DEA Number and/or their NPI Number. A prescription has legal implications; this means the prescriber must assume his responsibility for the clinical care of the patient.
Dispense As Written:Frequently Asked Questions Sometimes, your doctor may mark your prescription as“DAW”—“dispense as written.” It’s important to know whatthis means and how this affects your prescription drug cover-age. This is not a Summary Plan Description and is not intended to replace the benefit summary or schedule of benefits contained within the Plan. If any provision of these materials is inconsistent with thelanguage of the Plan, the language of the Plan will govern. © Scrip World.
In addition to the adherence and fulfillment question, the use of dispense-as-written (DAW) prescriptions cost the overall health care system around $7.7 billion and patients in particular somewhere on the order of $1.7 million. 
Dispense as Written Codes are a vital part of dispensing prescriptions in a pharmacy. These are simple, one or two digit codes that provide information to the pharmacist. The DAW codes are as follows: 0 = No product selection indicated. This is the same as a blank, it just means there are no special instructions. This happens when the generic isn't stocked by the pharmacy and they use a brand name instead. 6 = Override DAW Code. This is the all-purpose override code and is used whenever an override is needed. 7 = Brand mandated by state law. This code means that the brand name must be dispensed due to
Truth about DAW-1. I really get angry when I see a DAW-1 on a prescription. To me, a DAW-1 without a good reason is like saying “Hey pharmacist bitch, do what I say right now because I’m the doctor and I know whats best in drug-land”. Bzzt, welcome to AngryPharmacyLand. Now some doctors are confused. Lets indulge ourselves into what a DAW-1 means from a pharmacist standpoint. You see, DAW-1 (to us) is meant to be used when a doctor wishes a BRAND NAME medication used instead of a FDA approved generic.
The word prescription, from pre- (before) and script (writing, written), refers to the fact that the prescription is an order that must be written down before a compound drug can be prepared. Those within the industry will often call prescriptions simply scripts. ℞ is a symbol meaning prescription. It is sometimes transliterated as R x  or just Rx. This symbol originated in medieval manuscripts as an abbreviation of the Late Latin verb recipe, the imperative form of recipere, to take or take thus.
For those who don’t work in medicine, a DAW-1 means “Dispense as Written code 1″ (There are a bunch of DAW codes to signify different things like “Generic not available”, “Brand dispensed as generic”, etc). Now some doctors are confused. Lets indulge ourselves into what a DAW-1 means from a pharmacist standpoint. You see, DAW-1 (to us) is meant to be used when a doctor wishes a BRAND NAME medication used instead of a FDA approved generic.
A prescription (℞) is a written order by a physician or medical doctor to a pharmacist in the form of medication instructions for an individual patient. It can also be defined as an order to take certain medications. A prescription has legal implications; this means the prescriber must assume his responsibility for the clinical care of the patient.
A prescription (℞) is a health-care program implemented by a physician or other qualified practitioner in the form of instructions that govern the plan of care for an individual patient. ℞ is a symbol meaning prescription. It is sometimes transliterated as R x  or just Rx. This symbol originated in medieval manuscripts as an abbreviation of the Late Latin verb recipe, the imperative form of recipere, to take or take thus.