Boil the sauerkraut in a large pot in a small amount of water for about 1 hour, until it softens. Grate the cabbage, add mushrooms and boil it in a separate pot (it requires about 30-40 min). It's sauerkraut and meat which define Polish bigos, cabbage is optional. If you choose not too use it, add mushrooms to the sauerkraut.
A national dish of Poland, bigos is a traditional meat-and-cabbage stew, often referred to as a hunter’s stew. The history of bigos stretches back to the 14th century: supposedly, Lithuanian Grand Duke Jogaila, who became king of Poland, served it to his hunting-party guests. 
Bigos (polish hunter stew). I have been asked to post this recipe by so many times that it finally have it’s moment! It’s the exact same bigos my Mum and grandma used to make – sticky, hearthy, full of smoky meaty flavours, perfect comfort food for cold days (autumn is coming guys!).
Bigos is already true to Paleo way of life, without even modifying the recipe. It’s considered by many to be the Polish national dish. Traditionally, there was a pot with some bigos cooking almost in permanence. 
Polish food is delicious! If you are wondering what the people of Poland typically eat, here is a list of traditional Polish food. If it sounds good to you, be sure to check out our Polish recipe section and make your own Polish dishes! Bigos. Bigos is a traditional stew (Hunter's Stew) and is considered to be the national dish of Poland. There are many different recipes and they may vary from region to region. Typically, Bigos includes sauerkraut, various meats and sausages, tomatoes, honey and mushrooms.
Simmer it for about 30 minutes. Then your bigos is ready. Traditional Polish bigos recipe-final effect. It can be served now, but remember that it's best to reheat it for a few times, as it will gain in taste and become more delicate then. Serve bigos with bread. Grate the cabbage, add mushrooms and boil it in a separate pot (it requires about 30-40 min). It's sauerkraut and meat which define Polish bigos, cabbage is optional. If you choose not too use it, add mushrooms to the sauerkraut.
Polish food is so much more than that, yet it would be wrong not to pay homage to Poland’s national dish – Bigos, or Hunter’s Stew. There are probably as many individual recipes for Bigos as there are cooks in Poland. Bigos is a savoury dish, traditionally made with sauerkraut (kapusta kiszona) or cabbage and meat. It used to be cooked in a cauldron or on a camp fire and Polish hunters would add whatever meat they had to hand, for example, venison or other game. It is even mentioned by Adam Mickiewicz in the epic poem Pan Tadeusz. 
Bigos is considered the national dish of Poland. It's a hearty, long-simmered meat-and-sauerkraut stew that goes back centuries. It was traditionally served at the start of the hunting season, from fall through Shrove Tuesday, or until the family's supply of barrel-cured sauerkraut ran out! 
Our list of 60+ Polish Recipes would not be complete without bigos, also known as Hunter's Stew.. It is actually a national Polish dish! If you go to any Polish event, you will always get four things: Pierogi, Polish Beer, kielbasa, and Bigos. There are so many recipes for bigos, it is hard to know what is best. 
Bigos, or traditional Polish Hunter's Stew, is one of those homey recipes that changes from home to home. In fact, in From A Polish Country House Kitchen, Anne Applebaum and Danielle Crittenden describe the stew as Poland's version of chili—long stewed meat with a suggestion of vegetable served with thick rustic bread. 