In this way, morphology is the branch of linguistics that studies patterns of word formation within and across languages and attempts to formulate rules that model the knowledge of the speakers of those languages. Polysynthetic languages, such as Chukchi, have words composed of many morphemes. Lexeme-based morphology usually takes what is called an item-and-process approach. Instead of analyzing a word form as a set of morphemes arranged in sequence, a word form is said to be the result of applying rules that alter a word-form or stem in order to produce a new one.
Full Definition of MORPHOLOGY. 1. a: a branch of biology that deals with the form and structure of animals and plants b: the form and structure of an organism or any of its parts.2. a: a study and description of word formation (as inflection, derivation, and compounding) in language b: the system of word-forming elements and processes in a language.ull Definition of MORPHOLOGY. 1. a: a branch of biology that deals with the form and structure of animals and plants b: the form and structure of an organism or any of its parts. 2.
Morphology is a field of linguistics focused on the study of the forms and formation of words in a language. morpheme is the smallest indivisible unit of a language that retains meaning. The rules of morphology within a language tend to be relatively regular, so that if one sees the noun morphemes for the first time, for example, one can deduce that it is likely related to the word morpheme.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Morphology is a field of linguistics focused on the study of the forms and formation of words in a language. A morpheme is the smallest indivisible unit of a language that retains meaning. The rules of morphology within a language tend to be relatively regular, so that if one sees the noun morphemes for the first time, for example, one can deduce that it is likely related to the word morpheme.
Morphology, in linguistics, is the study of the forms of words, and the ways in which words are related to other words of the same language. Formal differences among words serve a variety of purposes, from the creation of new lexical items to the indication of grammatical structure. 
Medical Definition of MORPHOLOGY. 1. : a branch of biology that deals with the form and structure of animals and plants especially with respect to the forms, relations, metamorphoses, and phylogenetic development of organs apart from their functions—see anatomy 1; compare physiology 1.2.ull Definition of MORPHOLOGY. 1. a: a branch of biology that deals with the form and structure of animals and plants b: the form and structure of an organism or any of its parts. 2.
2. such patterns of a particular language. — morphologist, n. — morphological, adj. 1. the study of the form or structure of anything. 2. the branch of biology that studies the form and structure of plants and animals. See also geomorphology.n. 1. (Biology) the branch of biology concerned with the form and structure of organisms. 2. (Linguistics) the form and structure of words in a language, esp the consistent patterns of inflection, combination, derivation and change, etc, that may be observed and classified. 3. the form and
Not to be confused with Morphological typology. In linguistics, morphology /mɔrˈfɒlɵdʒi/ is the identification, analysis and description of the structure of a given language's morphemes and other linguistic units, such as root words, affixes, parts of speech, intonations and stresses, or implied context. Lexeme-based morphology usually takes what is called an item-and-process approach. Instead of analyzing a word form as a set of morphemes arranged in sequence, a word form is said to be the result of applying rules that alter a word-form or stem in order to produce a new one.
morphology. 1. the science of the form and structure of organisms. 2. the form and structure of a particular organism, organ, tissue, or cell. adj., adj morpholog´ic. (mōr-fol'ō-jē), Avoid the jargonistic use of this word as a synonym of form or appearance.
Morphology is a branch of biology dealing with the study of the form and structure of organisms and their specific structural features. 1 Experimental Morphology is the study of the effects of external factors upon the morphology of organisms under experimental conditions, such as the effect of genetic mutation.  2  Anatomy  is a branch of morphology that deals with the structure of organisms .