The basic ration for a horse is hay plus grain. The amount of grain a horse needs depends on the growth or performance expected. The amount of total ration is based on a consumption of 2-1/4 pounds of airdry fed per cwt. Thus a 1,000-pound horse would receive a total daily ration of 22-1/2 pounds. 1 The term ration denotes feed for a 24-hour period. 2  Accustom horses to feed gradually. 3  In general, they maybe given as much hay as they will eat. 4  It is safe to start horses on 1/2 pound of grain daily for each hundred pound's of the animal's weight.
In reality, proteins are the most difficult energy source for the horse to digest and convert to usable energy. Therefore, they are a very limited energy source for horses. Protein requirements for growth and maintenance vary depending on age and workload. However, if you are increasing the fat in your horse's diet by simply pouring some type of oil or fat supplement on the feed, it is important to be sure that you are meeting irs requirements for other nutrients and not just its requirement for energy. Vitamins: Vitamins are critically important organic compounds.
1 Weanlings weighing 550 pounds need about 1.6 pounds of protein. 2  Because these younger horses eat less grass or hay, grain can be increased to 7 pounds a day. 3  Yearlings weighing 850 pounds eat more grass or hay and require about 4.5 pounds of concentrate to bring protein intake to 1.75 pounds a day. Adult horses need protein only for repair and maintenance of body tissues, so their total requirement is fairly low. Many mature horses get all the protein they need (about 10% of the diet, on average) from grass or hay. Owners can confirm that this need is met by having pastures and hay analyzed.
Since more concentrate is fed, the performance horse actually has a greater intake of protein, which readily satisfies its need for more protein. It is not necessary to increase the protein percent of a concentrate feed to 14%-16% for mature, performance horses. A 10% protein feed is adequate when fed with a good-quality grass hay, since the amount of grain fed is increased to meet the energy need. It is the opinion of some horse owners, breeders, and trainers that protein is a magical feed ingredient. Protein is often the only nutrient that some horse owners consider, which may explain why some feeding programs fail. Without a doubt, protein is both greatly overemphasized and misunderstood by many horse owners.
It is important to recognize that forage is also a source of protein. Select hay that will help meet the horse’s protein requirement. Hays can be categorized as either grass hays (e.g., bermudagrass, timothy) or legume hays (e.g., alfalfa, peanut, clover). The horse should always be fed a minimum of 1 percent of its body weight in forage (on a dry matter basis); the ideal is 1.5 to 2 percent of its body weight. Feeding less roughage than this can lead to health issues such as colic and ulcers. There are currently a number of safe feeds marketed to the horse industry.
1 A mature horse doing moderate to heavy work needs about 2 to 2.15 pounds of protein a day. 2  An owner could feed 22 pounds of grass or hay and add 2 to 4 pounds of fortified feed to meet the protein requirement. 3  A broodmare in late pregnancy needs high-quality protein to build placental and fetal tissue. Adult horses need protein only for repair and maintenance of body tissues, so their total requirement is fairly low. Many mature horses get all the protein they need (about 10% of the diet, on average) from grass or hay. Owners can confirm that this need is met by having pastures and hay analyzed.
Table 2 gives grain requirements for several types of horses. Table 2. - Amount of Grain To Be Included in a Horse's Ration Per Cwt. of the Horse's Weight Grain per cwt., lb. Work expected from the horse Grain or growth Breeding stock None Idle mature horse Maintenance .... .50 Light (0 to 3 hours per day) Light .... 1 The term ration denotes feed for a 24-hour period. 2  Accustom horses to feed gradually. 3  In general, they maybe given as much hay as they will eat. 4  It is safe to start horses on 1/2 pound of grain daily for each hundred pound's of the animal's weight.
The daily requirement for a lightly working 1,100-pound horse is 699 grams, according to the 2007 NRC recommendations. Average mixed hay is about 17 percent protein. Feeding 15 pounds of hay alone can deliver 1,157 grams of protein to a horse. Understanding the protein content and feeding rates of all the feed sources a horse has access to is key to achieving the proper protein ratio.
Although protein is listed as a percentage on feed tags, the National Research Council’s (NRC) latest recommendation for horses lists the protein requirement unit in grams. To understand how much protein to feed a horse, we need to do some math and further reading. Many people think that a 30 percent protein feed is way too much for a horse to handle. If one looks a little closer, the tag of Hubbard Life’s 30% Supplement indicates that a 1,100-pound horse should consume one pound per day. Thirty percent of one pound is 136 grams of protein. Average mixed hay is about 17 percent protein. Feeding 15 pounds of hay alone can deliver 1,157 grams of protein to a horse. Understanding the protein content and feeding rates of all the feed sources a horse has access to is key to achieving the proper protein ratio.
1 Accustom horses to feed gradually. 2  In general, they maybe given as much hay as they will eat. 3  It is safe to start horses on 1/2 pound of grain daily for each hundred pound's of the animal's weight. 4  Thereafter, 1/2 pound of grain added to the total ration every third day is advisable. 1 The term ration denotes feed for a 24-hour period. 2  Accustom horses to feed gradually. 3  In general, they maybe given as much hay as they will eat. 4