Tissues are groups of cells with similar structures & functions. Plants have 3 tissue systems --- ground, dermal, and vascular tissues. Plant tissues make up the main organs of a plant --- root, stem, leaf, & flower. Ground tissue makes up most of the plant's body, dermal tissue covers the outside of the plant, & vascular tissue conducts water & nutrients. Dermal Tissue:
Differentiation, is the process where cells develop into mature cells with specialized structures and functions. w produce dermal, ground and vascular tissue Many plants also grow in width as a result of meristematic tissue that lines the stems and roots of a plant. Specialized Tissues in Plants. Seed Plant Structures. Plants consist of three main tissue systems: 1. dermal tissue-like the skin of a plant or the outermost layer of cells. 2. vascular tissue-like the plants bloodstream, transporting water and. and nutrients throughout the plant.
Cell type 4. Epidermis: The epidermis (Dermal Tissue) is the essentially continuous outer layer(s) of cells around the plant body. The epidermis may have openings (pores) in it called stomata (singular: stoma). Each stoma is surrounded by two cells that control the opening and closing of the pore. Cells and Tissues of the Plant (Angiosperm) Body The vascular plant sporophyte is usually composed of three kinds of vegetative organs: stems, leaves, and roots. In this lab, you will learn about the various cells and tissues that make up these organs.
Concept 4: Dermal Tissues. The dermal tissue system protects the soft tissues of plants and controls interactions with the plants' surroundings. The epidermis is a dermal tissue that is usually a single layer of cells covering the younger parts of a plant. It secretes a waxy layer called the cuticle that inhibits water loss. 
Parenchyma is an example of a simple tissue (composed only of parenchyma cells); xylem is an example of a complex tissue (composed of tracheids, vessel members, parenchyma cells, and sometimes fibers). Tissues are organized into three tissue systems: the dermal, vascular, and ground systems. Cells and Tissues of the Plant (Angiosperm) Body The vascular plant sporophyte is usually composed of three kinds of vegetative organs: stems, leaves, and roots. In this lab, you will learn about the various cells and tissues that make up these organs.
Epidermal tissue is a single layer of cells, (except in velamen,pepperomia and rubber plants) that covers the plant body. 
Dermal tissue makes up the outer layers of the plant and contains epidermal cells that secrete and are coated with a waxy layer. This waxy coating, the cuticle, prevents excessive water loss from the plant. Dermal tissue. Dermal Tissue. generally a single layer of cells. They are tightly packed and covered with a trans parent, waxy, material called the cuticle. Vascular Tissue. functions in support and trans portation of food and water throughout the plant. Ground Tissue.
There are three types of tissue systems: dermal tissue, vascular tissue, and ground tissue systems. The dermal tissue system consists of the epidermis and the periderm. The epidermis is generally a single layer of closely packed cells. It both covers and protects the plant. It can be thought of as the plant's skin.. Depending on the part of the plant that it covers, the dermal tissue system can be specialized to a certain extent. Like other organisms, plant cells are grouped together into various tissues. These tissues can be simple, consisting of a single cell type, or complex, consisting of more than one cell type. Above and beyond tissues, plants also have a higher level of structure called plant
Lesson Summary. The dermal tissue of a plant is the extremely thin outer layer of the soft parts of a plant. It is also known as the epidermis. Epidermal cells are flattened and very close together. Stomata are found in the dermal tissue. These are tiny pores flanked by two guard cells. Probably not. Skin is clearly an important and well-known part of a person or animal. But surprisingly, plants have an outer layer known as dermal tissue that is essentially their skin.