The grey hair “rule of thumb” is that by the age of 50, half of the population have lost the colour in 50% of their hair. When researchers tested this rule, they found that 74% of people aged between 45 and 65 had grey hair, with an average intensity of 27%. Generally, men have more grey hair than women. 
Differs widely per person, but I would guess the average to be around 35. But my hair started turning gray at age 18! I've had to dye it ever since. Even though my parents and siblings didn't go gray for a long time after that, like closer to 36, 38. But I had a really bad case of Mono, and my hair started turning gray when I was sick, so maybe that had something to do with it.
There is no set age that hair begins to turn Grey, I have been a cosmetologist for 12 years and have seen all ages with gray hair. A traumatic experience or health issues can cause hair to become gray earlier or in one spot but heredity is usually the main factor. Sorry no prevention advice,just find a great colorist!! what age did your hair start turning gray.. when does your hair usually start turning gray.. thanx. x. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
The grey hair 'rule of thumb' is that by the age of 50, half of the population have lost the colour in 50 per cent of their hair. When researchers tested this rule, they found that 74 per cent of people aged between 45 and 65 had grey hair, with an average intensity of 27 per cent. No, stress DOESN'T turn your hair grey and men's beards really DO go ginger: Expert reveals what really affects our hair colour. 1  Rodney Sinclair is a Professor of Dermatology at University of Melbourne. 2  Claims that by age 50, half of us have lost colour in 50 per cent of our hair.
The grey hair “rule of thumb” is that by the age of 50, half of the population have lost the colour in 50% of their hair. When researchers tested this rule, they found that 74% of people aged between 45 and 65 had grey hair, with an average intensity of 27%. Generally, men have more grey hair than women. 
As you age the follicles lose their pigmentation. Hair isn't actually grey its white, but it looks grey   Why hair turns gray as we agePremature graying can happen at any a … ge ... generally from the 20's up. I knew a young man in Elementary school who had a tin can thrown at him which cut the scalp and he had a patch of white hair about two inches in diameter. 
Typically, white people start going gray in their mid-30s, Asians in their late 30s, and African-Americans in their mid-40s. Half of all people have a significant amount of gray hair by the time they turn 50. 
Here's a look at what causes hair to turn gray and some of the factors that affect graying. Answer: The age at which you'll get your first gray hair (assuming your hair doesn't simply fall out) is largely determined by genetics. You'll probably get that first strand of gray around the same age your parents and grandparents started to go gray. However, the rate at which the graying progresses is somewhat under your own control. Smoking is known to increase the rate of graying.
The Graying Process. With age, the pigment cells in a hair follicle gradually die off. As they do, that strand of hair will no longer grow in with as much color and will show up as more silver, gray or white as it continues to grow. Eventually, if all the pigment cells die, the hair grows in completely gray. 