The common thing between polyamide and polyester is both are synthetic fibers fall under class man made fibers. Nylon is commonly known as polyamide. Developed by Dupoint. Polyamide (nylon) is first engineering thermoplastic. Both polyester and polyamides have similar properties. Neither is  necessarily stronger than the other; however, the polyester does  perform better than the polyamide in cer … tain applications. The most  common polyamide is nylon, but silk and wool are also polyamides.
All polyamides are made by the formation of an amide function to link two molecules of monomer together. The monomers can be amides themselves (usually in the form of a cyclic lactam such as Caprolactam), α,ω-amino acids or a stoichiometric mixture of a diamine and a diacid. A polyamide is a macromolecule with repeating units linked by amide bonds. Polyamides occur both naturally and artificially. Examples of naturally occurring polyamides are proteins, such as wool and silk. Artificially made polyamides can be made through step-growth polymerization or solid-phase synthesis yielding materials such as nylons, aramids, and sodium poly(aspartate) 
Polyamide occurs both naturally and artificially and is used in the making of a variety of materials. Naturally occurring polyamides are wool and silk which are nothing but proteins, while artificially manufactured polyamides are nylon, sodium poly(asparate) and aramids. As far as Polyamide Fabric is concerned, it is generally sold as nylon in all parts of the world. Nylon is light-weight, but at the same time, a strong fabric. The fibers that are used to make nylon are smooth and non-absorbent, meaning anything that is made up of nylon dries up easily and quickly. Nylon is also dirt resistant and is not affected by any chemicals or sweat.
Nylon is chemically chains of amide molecules and the chains are arranged parallel to each other and are attached by hydrogen bonds. A polymerization process takes place that makes nylon fibers strong and since, this is a condensation reaction, no water is retained. Nylon is light-weight, but at the same time, a strong fabric. The fibers that are used to make nylon are smooth and non-absorbent, meaning anything that is made up of nylon dries up easily and quickly. Nylon is also dirt resistant and is not affected by any chemicals or sweat.
Polyamide is the class name for a group of polymers wherein the repeat units are connected by amide linkages. They are also called nylon, from the original DuPont trademark. The most common polyamides are nylon 6 and nylon 6,6 (polyhexamethylene adipamide). 
Synthetic polyamides are commonly used in textiles, automotive applications, carpets and sportswear due to their high durability and strength. The transportation industry is the major consumer, accounting for 35% of polyamide (PA) consumption. A polyamide is a macromolecule with repeating units linked by amide bonds. Polyamides occur both naturally and artificially. Examples of naturally occurring polyamides are proteins, such as wool and silk. Artificially made polyamides can be made through step-growth polymerization or solid-phase synthesis yielding materials such as nylons, aramids, and sodium poly(aspartate) 