Whooping cough treatment typically involves antibiotics and supportive care, which refers to providing relief of symptoms and complications as the body fights the whooping cough bacteria (Bordetella pertussis). 
There are several antibiotics (medications that can help treat diseases caused by bacteria) available to treat pertussis. If you or your child is diagnosed with pertussis, your doctor will explain how to treat the infection. Learn more about pertussis treatment recommended by CDC. Pertussis can sometimes be very serious, requiring treatment in the hospital. Babies are at greatest risk for serious complications from pertussis. View photos of a baby being treated for pertussis in the hospital. If Your Child Is Treated for Pertussis in the Hospital. Your child may need help keeping breathing passages clear, which may require suctioning (drawing out) of mucus. Breathing is monitored and oxygen will be given, if needed.
Whooping cough is a highly contagious disease caused by a bacterial infection of the respiratory tract. Whooping cough, also known as pertussis, is caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. The hallmark symptoms of whooping cough are violent coughing fits followed by a whooping sound made as a person gasps for air. Whooping cough is highly preventable through vaccination. 
Unfortunately, most people with whooping cough are diagnosed later with the condition in the second (paroxysmal) stage of the disease. Treatment with antibiotics is recommended for anyone who has had the disease for less than three to four weeks. There is no proven effective treatment for the paroxysms of coughing that accompany whooping cough. Antibiotics also are routinely administered to people who have had close contact with an infected person, regardless of their vaccination status.
Timing. Early treatment of pertussis is very important. The earlier a person, especially an infant, starts treatment the better. If treatment for pertussis is started early in the course of illness, during the first 1 to 2 weeks before coughing paroxysms occur, symptoms may be lessened. 
Treatment may make your infection less serious if it is started early, before coughing fits begin. Treatment can also help prevent spreading the disease to close contacts (people who have spent a lot of time around the infected person). If Your Child Is Treated for Pertussis in the Hospital. Your child may need help keeping breathing passages clear, which may require suctioning (drawing out) of mucus. Breathing is monitored and oxygen will be given, if needed.
(Redirected from Whooping cough). Pertussis, also known as whooping cough or 100-day cough, is a highly contagious bacterial disease. Initially, symptoms are usually similar to those of the common cold with a runny nose, fever, and mild cough. This is then followed by weeks of severe coughing fits. Following a fit of coughing, a high-pitched whoop sound or gasp may occur as the person breathes in. The coughing may last for 10 or more weeks, hence the phrase 100-day cough.
In the 1930's, before there was a vaccine, whooping cough was common -- over 200,000 cases per year in the US -- and it caused a lot of deaths in babies. A vaccine was introduced in the 1940's, and by the 1970's the number of cases of whooping cough decreased to less than 5,000 per year. 
Treatments and drugs. Infants are typically hospitalized for treatment because whooping cough is more dangerous for that age group. If your child can't keep down liquids or food, intravenous fluids may be necessary. Your child will also be isolated from others to prevent the infection from spreading. 