Answers. Best Answer: The superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava both enter the heart at the right atrium. The difference is that-as the name suggests-the superior vena vava carried deoxygenated blood back to the heart from the upper areas of the body (in Latin, superior == above). 
IVC is a vein that transports DE-oxygenated blood FROM the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart. The inferior vena cava (or IVC) is the large vein that carry de-oxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart. It is posterior to the abdominal cavity and runs alongside of the vertebral column on its right side (i.e. it is a retroperitoneal structure)
Six large veins carry blood to the heart: the superior vena cava and inferior vena cava carry blood from the body to the right atrium, and four pulmonary veins carry blood fro … m the lungs to the left atrium. Two arteries, the pulmonary trunk and the aorta, exit the heart. The Vena Cava carrys de oxygenated blood that is returning from the body and into the right atruim of the heart and the Aorta is the largest artery of the body which tr … ansports oxygenated blood to the rest of the body.     Hope this helps
The aorta is the main artery leaving the left ventricle of the heart-it carries blood to the head and body. There is a superior and inferior vena cava, both are large veins. … The superior returns blood to the heart from the head, neck and both upper limbs. Inferior vena cava is a vein carrying and returning the blood to the heart, and abdominal aorta is an artery taking oxygenated blood from the heart to the various organs and t … issues. 10 people found this useful.
The only difference between the ascending and descending aorta is the direction of the artery. The ascending aorta is only the area from the aortic semilunar valve to the aortic trunk. The descending is the part of the artery that takes it down the abdomen. The difference in the superior and inferior vena cava is the same, where the superior runs cranially and the inferior runs down the abdomen. They both, vena cavae, dump into the right atrium. :) I hope that answers your question. You have the flow listed correctly already. 
Inferior Vena Cava. Inferior vena cava is the largest vein in the body, which carries deoxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart. It is located posterior to the abdominal cavity and runs to the heart next to the abdominal aorta. Superior Vena Cava. Superior vena cava is a large vein which brings deoxygenated blood into the right atrium of the heart from the upper half of the body, including neck, head and upper limbs. It begins above the heart.
The superior vena cava is a large, yet short vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body to the heart's right atrium. The inferior vena cava (or IVC) … is the large vein that carries de-oxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart. Inferior vena cava is a vein carrying and returning the blood to the heart, and abdominal aorta is an artery taking oxygenated blood from the heart to the various organs and t … issues. 10 people found this useful.
Inferior vena cava is a vein carrying and returning the blood to the heart, and abdominal aorta is an artery taking oxygenated blood from the heart to the various organs and t … issues. 10 people found this useful. The Vena Cava carrys de oxygenated blood that is returning from the body and into the right atruim of the heart and the Aorta is the largest artery of the body which tr … ansports oxygenated blood to the rest of the body.     Hope this helps