Petticoat Junction is an American situation comedy that originally aired on CBS from September 1963 to April 1970. The series takes place at the Shady Rest Hotel, which is run by Kate Bradley, her Uncle Joe, and her three daughters Billie Jo, Bobbie Jo and Betty Jo. The series is one of three interrelated shows about rural characters created by Paul Henning. (During the first two seasons of Petticoat Junction, Allman was featured on the show in other roles). Mike Minor first appeared on the series as Selma Plout's son Dan in the third season episode Mother Of The Bride that aired December 15, 1964. After that episode, the character of Dan Plout is never seen again.
Petticoat Junction. Petticoat Junction is the name of the location of the Shady Rest Hotel, which is situated near the remote town of Hooterville, famous for its many Hooters Restaurants, not far from Green Acres, the farm of Oliver Wendell Douglas and his wife Lisa. 
The show was filmed in Southern California--mostly indoors. The train shots were filmed around Sonora, CA. Petticoat Junction is owned by CBS Corporation, after the show ended Paul Henning sold the rights to CBS. However some of the episodes (mostly the black & white ones, du … e to CBS not renewing the copyright on them for the syndication package) have become a part of the public-domain.
Sierra Railroad 4-6-0 #3 at Jamestown, Calif. for filming of the Petticoat Junction TV series, June 22, 1965. Men in photo L to R are: W.P. Cram, Boilermaker; Mike Pardina, Fireman; Louie Antone, Conductor. Never missed a show, always wondered what the engine looked like in color. TCnR Wrote: -------------------------------------------------------. Petticoat Junction is available on DVD. Amazon.com has a 20-episode first season DVD for $26.99.
The Hooterville Cannonball was a fictional railroad train featured in Petticoat Junction, an American situation comedy that was produced by Filmways, Inc. , and originally aired on the CBS network from 1963 to 1970. There were actually two Hooterville Cannonball trains used for filming. The working model was the Sierra No. 3 locomotive and was used to film all the long shots including the show's opening and closing credits.
Although the Cannonball was ever-present on Petticoat Junction, there was really very little film shot each season. Most of Petticoat Junction was filmed indoors with a full size wood model of the Cannonball that the studio had made for the 1950 Western, Ticket to Tomahawk with Dan Dailey and Rory Calhoun. A highlight of the event was the reuniting of three of the Bradley girls from Petticoat Junction, Meredith MacRae (the third to play Billie Jo), Lori Saunders (the second to play Bobbie Jo) and Linda Kaye.
Petticoat Junction was created upon the success of Henning's previous rural/urban-themed sitcom The Beverly Hillbillies (1962–1971). The success of Petticoat Junction led to a spin-off, Green Acres (1965–1971). (During the first two seasons of Petticoat Junction, Allman was featured on the show in other roles). Mike Minor first appeared on the series as Selma Plout's son Dan in the third season episode Mother Of The Bride that aired December 15, 1964. After that episode, the character of Dan Plout is never seen again.
I've always had a theory that the secret to a hit TV show was a catchy theme song that explains the premise of the show. Think about it, Gilligan's Island, Beverly Hillbillies, Addams Family, Brady Bunch, they all had great songs that we all know the words to, and Petticoat Junction was no exception. A highlight of the event was the reuniting of three of the Bradley girls from Petticoat Junction, Meredith MacRae (the third to play Billie Jo), Lori Saunders (the second to play Bobbie Jo) and Linda Kaye.
LA TOUR, MISSOURI. The dog on Petticoat Junction, whose real name was 'Higgins', was named simply 'Dog' on the show. The train and scenes were filmed on the Sierra Railway in California and the water tank is in Jamestown, CA. 