What to Expect for Refunds in 2015. The IRS issues more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days. However, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. The easiest way to check your refund status is by using our automated tools. Where’s My Refund? has the most up to date information available about your refund.
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.
Essentially, they’re saying most people will get their refunds in less than 21 days, but there won’t be any schedules they will follow this year. The IRS provides these tips to tax preparers to get the fastest tax refund: 1  File an accurate tax return. 2  Efile your
Tax refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you file electronically, but due to budget cuts, expect to wait a bit longer. Check the status of your refund within 24 hours after your e-filed tax return is received by the IRS or four weeks after your tax forms are mailed in.
If you paper file, it will take three to four weeks for the IRS to process the return and acknowledge your refund. If you e-file, you will get a notice of arrival within 24 hours and confirmation of refund within 72 hours.
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.
Don’t count on getting your refund by a certain date to make major purchases or pay other financial obligations. Even though the IRS issues most refunds in less than 21 days, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer.
If you filed a tax return by mail, your refund will be issued within six weeks from the date the return was received by the IRS, whether or not you opted for a paper check or an electronic deposit.