For instance, goods move from the customer to the distributor or to the manufacturer. When a manufacturer's product normally moves through the supply chain network, it is to reach the distributor or customer. Any process or management after the sale of the product involves reverse logistics. If the product is defective, the customer would return the product. Reverse logistics is more than just returns management, it is activities related to returns avoidance, gatekeeping, disposal and all other after-market supply chain issues.
Logistics The planning, execution, and control of the movement / placement of goods and / or people, and the related supporting activities, all within a system designed to achieve specific objectives. 
Logistics is the management of the flow of things between the point of origin and the point of consumption in order to meet requirements of customers or corporations. Outbound logistics :Outbound logistics is the process related to the storage and movement of the final product and the related information flows from the end of the production line to the end user.
Reverse logistics is for all operations related to the reuse of products and materials. It is the process of moving goods from their typical final destination for the purpose of capturing value, or proper disposal. Reverse logistics is more than just returns management, it is activities related to returns avoidance, gatekeeping, disposal and all other after-market supply chain issues.
We refer to the term reverse logistics as all activity associated with a product/service after the point of sale, the ultimate goal to optimize or make more efficient aftermarket activity, thus saving money and environmental resources. The chart below shows how ReverseLogistics™ comes into play in the Supply Chain. Our definition of Reverse Logistics has evolved since our founding to encourage all industries towards managing their assets Reverse Logistics is the scientific process of managing assets, in every department in all industries and across all disciplines.
By Robert Malone. No tags available. With product returns on the rise, many companies strive to formalize the reverse logistics process. Reverse logistics is the backward flow of what we all wish would be a forward-only process. If you expect zero product returns in your supply chain, you are living in dreamland. 
In the case of reverse logistics, the resource goes at least one step back in the supply chain. For instance, goods move from the customer to the distributor or to the manufacturer. When a manufacturer's product normally moves through the supply chain network, it is to reach the distributor or customer. Any process or management after the sale of the product involves reverse logistics. If the product is defective, the customer would return the product. The manufacturing firm would then have to organise shipping of the defective product, testing the product, dismantling, repairing, recycling or disposing the product. Reverse logistics flow, however, is a different story. Shippers generally do not initiate reverse logistics activity as a result of planning and decision making on the part of the firm, but in response to actions by consumers or downstream channel members.
Forward logistics is about getting your product to market and uses automated information systems to track items. Forward logistics ranges from product development to manufacturing to distribution to end-market. 
Logistics management is that part of the supply chain that plans, implements, and controls the efficient, effective forward and reverse flow and storage of goods, services, and related information between the point of origin and the point of consumption in order to meet customer requirements. Outbound logistics :Outbound logistics is the process related to the storage and movement of the final product and the related information flows from the end of the production line to the end user.
Therefore, reverse logistics is: The process of planning, implementing, and controlling the efficient, cost effective flow of raw materials, in-process inventory, finished goods and related information from the point of consumption to the point of origin for the purpose of recapturing value or proper disposal. Importance of Reverse Logistics. If no goods or materials are being sent backward, the activity probably is not a reverse logistics activity. Reverse logistics also includes processing returned merchandise due to damage, seasonal inventory, restock, salvage, recalls, and excess inventory.