Millions of Americans live with various types of mental illness and mental health problems, such as social anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, drug addiction, and personality disorders. Treatment options include medication and psychotherapy. 
Most treatment methods for mental health disorders can be categorized as either somatic or psychotherapeutic. Somatic treatments include drugs, electroconvulsive therapy, and other therapies that stimulate the brain (such as transcranial magnetic stimulation and vagus nerve stimulation). 
Medication tends to be most effective when it is used in combination with counseling or psychotherapy. There are many different types of medication for mental health problems, including anti-depressants, medication for attention issues, anti-anxiety medications, mood stabilizers, and antipsychotic medications. 
1 Mental illness refers to all of the diagnosable mental disorders and is characterized by abnormalities in thinking, feelings, or behaviors. 2  Some of the most common types of mental illness include anxiety, depressive, behavioral, and substance-abuse disorders. 3  There is no single cause for mental illness. 1 Some of the most common types of mental illness include anxiety, depressive, behavioral, and substance-abuse disorders. 2
Absolutely. Most cases of anxiety disorder can be treated successfully by appropriately trained mental health professionals such as licensed psychologists. Research has demonstrated that a form of psychotherapy known as cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) can be highly effective in treating anxiety disorders. Psychologists use CBT to help people identify and learn to manage the factors that contribute to their anxiety.
Psychiatric medication is also widely used to treat mental disorders. These are licenced psychoactive drugs usually prescribed by a psychiatrist or family doctor. There are several main groups. Antidepressants are used for the treatment of clinical depression as well as often for anxiety and other disorders. A common form of treatment for many mental disorders is psychotherapy. Psychotherapy is an interpersonal intervention, usually provided by a mental health professional such as a clinical psychologist, that employs any of a range of specific psychological techniques. There are several main types.
Innovations in the range of evidence based medications, therapy and psychosocial services such as psychiatric rehabilitation, housing, employment and peer supports have made wellness and recovery a reality for people living with mental health conditions. Choosing the right mix of treatments and supports that work for you is an important step in the recovery process. Treatment choices for mental health conditions will vary from person to person. Even people with the same diagnosis will have different experiences, needs, goals and objectives for treatment.
1 Psychotherapy – Psychotherapy is the therapeutic treatment of mental illness provided by a trained mental health professional. 2  Psychotherapy explores thoughts, feelings, and behaviors, and seeks to improve an individual’s well-being. 3  Psychotherapy paired with medication is the most effective way to promote recovery. 1 Medication – Medication does not outright cure mental illness. 2  However, it may help with the management of symptoms. 3  Medication paired with psychotherapy is the most effective way to promote recovery. 4  Case Management – Case management coordinates services for an individual with the help of a case manager.
Treatments and drugs. Your treatment depends on the type of mental illness you have, its severity and what works best for you. In many cases, a combination of treatments works best. If you have a mild mental illness with well-controlled symptoms, treatment from one health care provider may be sufficient. Psychiatric medications can also help make other treatments, such as psychotherapy, more effective. The best medications for you will depend on your particular situation and how your body responds to the medication. Some of the most commonly used classes of prescription psychiatric medications include: 1  Antidepressants.
There are many different treatment options available. There is no treatment that works for everyone – individuals can chose the treatment, or combination of treatments, that works best. 1  Psychotherapy – Psychotherapy is the therapeutic treatment of mental illness provided by a trained mental health professional. 1 Medication – Medication does not outright cure mental illness. 2  However, it may help with the management of symptoms. 3  Medication paired with psychotherapy is the most effective way to promote recovery. 4  Case Management – Case management coordinates services for an individual with the help of a case manager.