Heat a large cast-iron pan over medium-high heat. Sear steak on both sides until blackened, 8 to 10 minutes total. Transfer to oven and roast 15 to 20 minutes or until a meat thermometer inserted into center of steak registers 125 degrees for medium-rare. 
Place a 10-to-12-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and heat the oven to 500 degrees F. Bring the steak to room temperature. When the oven reaches temperature, remove the skillet and place on the range over high heat for 5 minutes. Coat the steak lightly with oil and sprinkle both sides with a generous pinch of salt. Grind on black pepper. Immediately place the steak in the middle of the hot, dry skillet. Cook 30 seconds without moving. Turn with tongs and cook another 30 seconds, then put the pan straight into the oven for 2 minutes. Flip the steak and cook for another 2 minutes. (This time is for medium-rare steak. If you prefer medium, add a minute to both of the oven turns.). Remove the steak from the skillet, cover loosely with foil and rest for 2 minutes. Serve whole or slice thin and fan onto plate.
Directions. 1  Sprinkle steaks liberally with Mccormick seasoning on both sides. 2  Preheat oven to 450°F Place steaks in shallow pan and place 1 Tb butter on each steak as well as beef broth, thyme and rosemary. 3  Roast until one side is browned/sizzled then turn over until other side is browned/sizzled. 1 Preheat oven to 450°F Place steaks in shallow pan and place 1 Tb butter on each steak as well as beef broth, thyme and rosemary. 2  Roast until one side is browned/sizzled then turn over until other side is browned/sizzled. 3  Leave a bit longer for well-done
Step 3: Broil. Place the steak in the oven and broil for the appropriate amount of time. A 3/4-inch boneless steak needs about 8 to 10 minutes while a 1-inch thick one needs 14 to 18 minutes. If you're broiling bone-in, a 1-inch steak needs 13 to 17 minutes. Go for the longer time if you want a more well-done piece of meat. Turn the meat once about halfway during the cooking process.
Season each side of the steak with about 1/2 teaspoon of salt and black pepper. You can either use to ovenproof skillets, like a cast iron skillet, or just a regular skillet like I did. Turn your exhaust fan on high. Cook the steaks searing one side for about 5 minutes. You want a nice brown crust to form on that side. Then flip the steak and repeat the process for the other side. When you are done transfer the steaks to a baking sheet for roasting. Roast the Steaks: Place the baking sheet in the oven for roasting time
Step 5: Heat your cast-iron grill pan (or aluminum grill pan) to high heat with vegetable oil until the oil is smoking. Quickly put the steaks onto the grill. Cook for 1.5 – 2 minutes on one side (lifting the steak halfway to re-distribute the fat), and then flip and cook another 2 – 2.5 min on the other side. Ingredients. 2-rib-eye steaks (1 1/2 to 1 3/4 inches thick). Kosher salt and ground black pepper. 1 T vegetable oil. Step 1: Preheat oven to 275 degrees and adjust oven rack to middle position. Dry the steaks with a paper towel and cut the 16-oz steaks in half to make 2 8-oz steaks (still same thickness!).
1 Cover with saran wrap and let marinade at room temperature for 30 minutes. 2  Preheat oven to 450°F Place steaks in shallow pan and place 1 Tb butter on each steak as well as beef broth, thyme and rosemary. 3  Roast until one side is browned/sizzled then turn over until other side is browned/sizzled. 1 Preheat oven to 450°F Place steaks in shallow pan and place 1 Tb butter on each steak as well as beef broth, thyme and rosemary. 2  Roast until one side is browned/sizzled then turn over until other side is browned/sizzled. 3  Leave a bit longer for well-done
Set a 14-inch saute pan over medium-high heat. Season the steaks with the salt and pepper. Add 1 tablespoon of the oil to the pan, and, once hot, place 2 of the steaks, fat side down, in the hot pan. Sear the steak until well caramelized and most of the fat has rendered, about 5 minutes. Turn the steak over and sear for 5 minutes on the other side
1 Season the steak/s with black pepper, then allow the meat to sit at room temperature for 1 to 1-1/2 hours. 2  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 3  Heat the oil in a cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat or just until the oil begins to lightly smoke. 