Usually you have a combination of 3 or 4 chemotherapy drugs together. But in some circumstances, you may have one on its own. You have chemotherapy as a course of treatment. Often, you have the drugs for between 1 and 5 days, then have a break for 3 to 4 weeks. This makes up one chemotherapy cycle. Then the cycle begins again.
Your course of chemotherapy. How often you have chemotherapy, how it’s given, and how long your whole course takes depends on: 1  the type of cancer you have. 2  the chemotherapy drugs you’re having and how the cancer responds to the drugs. 3  how the side effects are affecting you.
Chemotherapy for AML is usually given as several sessions (cycles) of treatment. Each cycle lasts 5-10 days and is followed by a rest period of 3-4 weeks. The rest period allows your body to recover from the side effects of the treatment. Most people have three or four cycles of chemotherapy.
You have chemotherapy as a course of treatment. The length of time the course takes varies depending on the drugs you have. Often, you have the drugs for between 1 and 5 days, then have a break for 3 to 4 weeks. The drug treatment, followed by the break makes up one cycle.
Chemotherapy is not usually a single treatment, but a course of treatments. A course usually takes between 3 to 6 months, but can be more or less than that. The treatment will include one or more chemotherapy drugs that you may have into a vein (intravenous drugs), or as chemotherapy tablets or capsules. During a course of treatment, you usually have between 4 to 8 cycles of treatment.
How often and how long you have chemotherapy depends on the type of cancer you have and the drugs that are used. You may have treatment daily, weekly or monthly for several months to a year. Chemotherapy is commonly given in courses (cycles), with rest periods in between.
Through research, doctors find out the best way to give each type of treatment. Chemotherapy is not usually a single treatment, but a course of treatments. A course usually lasts for between 3 and 6 months but may be shorter or longer. During this time, you will usually have between 4 and 8 cycles