A 1 change in pitch will usually result in a 200 RPM change in engine speed. Therefore, if your engine operates below the optimum proper rpm, you should consider a boat propeller with less pitch. Overton's has a huge selection of boat props & prop accessories at great prices! Feel free to browse the information below to gain a better understanding of how to select the right boat prop for your boat.
You may also want to view: Propeller Installation, Determining RPM, Propeller Sizing, Propeller Terminology. Q. What prop should I use with my boat and motor? --------------------------------------------------------------------------------. A. First, determine how the boat will be used or what the normal load will be. A. If a propeller is specified as 10x12 in size, this indicates it is a 10 diameter by 12 pitch. Propeller Dimensions are always given in this order. Diameter is determined by doubling the distance between the blade tip and the center of the hub.
Despite popular belief, choosing the correct propeller for a particular boat and motor is actually a fairly simple thing to do, once you understand what a propeller really is. First think of a propeller as a gear, whether it be on a car or even a bicycle. Let's take an example of an 18' boat with a 125 hp engine with a rpm range of 4500-5500. In most cases you purchase a boat with some sort of propeller on it. Let's say this motor has a 21 pitch prop on it and at wide open throttle under a normal boat load, the engine turns 4900 rpms.
If you're changing pitch on a recreational boat, remember that each inch of pitch is worth about 200 rpm. Lowering the pitch will increase rpm and vice versa. For example, going from a 23 pitch to a 21 pitch will increase engine rpm by about 400 revolutions. Pitch is defined as the distance a propeller would move in one revolution if it were moving through a soft solid, like a screw through wood.. For example, a 21-pitch propeller would move forward 21 inches in one revolution. Think of a propeller as you would a car's axle ratio. The lower the ratio, the more pulling power from a standstill. The same is true with a prop. The lower the pitch, the better your hole-shot
You need a prop that allows your motor to reach that rpm range without going over it, when the boat is loaded as it will normally be used, and the throttle is wide open. As big as that boat is, you should probably run a 10 7/8 X11 prop (11 being the pitch, 10 7/8 the diameter. You will likely only be able to run a 11 pitch prop on that motor. A prop is selected not for the size of the motor, but for how fast the motor turns when running wide open. Your motor has a maximum Wide Open Throttle (WOT) rpm range that is determined by Mercury.
When selecting a propeller pitch for your boat, it is important that the propeller runs at the upper end of your engines wide-open-throttle RPM range. If you want your RPM's to increase, go down in pitch. To decrease RPM's, go up in pitch. As a general guide, for every 2 of pitch, RPM's will change approximately 400 RPM's. For water sports or extra people on board, you should generally drop 2 of pitch to help compensate for the added weight and drag on your boat. Remember this rule of thumb: For every 2 of propeller pitch, rpm's will change approximately 400 rpm's. As you drop in pitch, rpm's increase, and as you go up in pitch, rpm's decrease. So if we want to raise our rpm's we should choose a lower pitch prop.
In general to increase top speed you would step up your prop. For example if you are using a 19 pitch prop now then you would increase the number IE: 21. This will decrease your ability to plane out as easily and the low end power will be diminished IE: pulling water skiers out of the water, etc. A stainless steel prop will help with overcoming the plane out/low end issues. 
In all likelihood, more than one propeller will be suitable for your boat and motor combination, depending on your usage. Ski boats need more top end speed, and should choose a prop with a higher pitch. The cupped propeller of the same pitch and diameter will typically reduce your r.p.m. by approximately 200. If you cannot reach maximum r.p.m., then pitch should be decreased. These recommendations apply to single engine installations only. For most twin engine installations it is necessary to increase pitch by 4.
If you don't know, diameter and pitch usually are stamped somewhere on the prop. Also know the engine's rpm at wide-open throttle when your boat is running with a typical load and trimmed for best speed. Perhaps what's most important is your performance goals. Pitch is defined as the distance a propeller would move in one revolution if it were moving through a soft solid, like a screw through wood.. For example, a 21-pitch propeller would move forward 21 inches in one revolution. Think of a propeller as you would a car's axle ratio. The lower the ratio, the more pulling power from a standstill. The same is true with a prop. The lower the pitch, the better your hole-shot