These bronchioles give rise to the air sacs in the lungs called the alveoli. The lungs are the largest organs in the lower respiratory tract. The lungs are suspended within the pleural cavity of the thorax. The pleurae are two thin membranes, one cell layer thick, which surrounds the lungs. The lower airways or lower respiratory tract includes the portion of the larynx below the vocal cords, trachea, bronchi and bronchioles. The lungs can be included in the lower respiratory tract or as separate entity and include the respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts, alveolar sacs, and alveoli.
The upper respiratory tract includes the nose, nasal cavity, paranasal sinuses, and ph … arynx. The lower respiratory tract includes the larynx, trachea, bronchial tree, and lungs. The upper respiratory tract includes several structures: the nose, the nasal cavity, the nasal and paranasal sinuses, and the larynx and pharynx. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: Conner Miskowiec. 1,315 Contributions. Researcher and nutrition expert who enjoys most of his spare time at Indiana University.
The thorax includes the thoracic cavity and the thoracic wall. It contains organs including the heart, lungs and thymus gland, as well as muscles and various other internal structures. Many diseases may affect the chest, and one of the most common symptoms is chest pain. The thorax or chest (Greek: θώραξ (from the Greek θώραξ thorax breastplate, cuirass, corslet), Latin: thorax is a part of the anatomy of humans and various other animals located between the neck and the abdomen.
The upper and lower respiratory system. The respiratory system is divided into the upper and lower respiratory tracts. The upper respiratory system consists of the organs located above the thorax. Organs of the respiratory system (upper tract). 1  nose. 2  pharynx. 3  larynx. 4  part of the trachea. 
An upper respiratory tract infection would include infection of the  nose, nasal cavity, nasal and paranasa … l sinuses, and the larynx and  pharynx.    A lower respiratory tract infection would include infection of the  trachea, bronchi or bronchial tree, and the lungs or pleural  cavity. The upper respiratory tract includes several structures: the nose, the nasal cavity, the nasal and paranasal sinuses, and the larynx and pharynx. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: Conner Miskowiec. 1,315 Contributions. Researcher and nutrition expert who enjoys most of his spare time at Indiana University.
The respiratory tract is divided into the upper airways and lower airways. The upper airways or upper respiratory tract includes the nose and nasal passages, paranasal sinuses, the pharynx, and the portion of the larynx above the vocal cords. The lower airways or lower respiratory tract includes the portion of the larynx below the vocal cords, trachea, bronchi and bronchioles. The lungs can be included in the lower respiratory tract or as separate entity and include the respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts, alveolar sacs, and alveoli.
The upper respiratory tract, can refer to the parts of the respiratory system lying above the sternal angle (outside of the thorax), above the glottis (vocal cords), or above the cricoid cartilage. So that the larynx is sometimes included in the upper airway and sometimes in the lower airway. The lower airways or lower respiratory tract includes the portion of the larynx below the vocal cords, trachea, bronchi and bronchioles. The lungs can be included in the lower respiratory tract or as separate entity and include the respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts, alveolar sacs, and alveoli.
The respiratory system provides oxygen to the body’s cells while removing carbon dioxide, a waste product that can be lethal if allowed to accumulate. There are 3 major parts of the respiratory system: the airway, the lungs, and the muscles of respiration. The airway, which includes the nose, mouth, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, carries air between the lungs and the body’s exterior. The lungs... Click to read more below. The cells of the human body require a constant stream of oxygen to stay alive.