Best Answer: Nitrogenous bases: A=Adenine T=Thymine G=Guanine C=Cytosine Each base attached to a pentose/five carbon sugar (deoxyribose), and a phosphate group. The phosphate and sugar molecules bind to each other with covalent bond, while the complementary bases bind with hydrogen bond. They are attached to a five carbon sugar through covalent bonds, and they also form the rungs of the ladder in the double helix through hydrogen bonds. These hydrogen bonds are between two nitrogenous bases.
These bases are crucially important because the sequencing of them in DNA and RNA is the way information is stored. The letters which form the codons in the genetic code are the A C U G of the bases. The larger bases adenine and guanine are purines which differ in the kinds of atoms that are attached to their double ring. The other bases cytosine, uracil, and thymine are pyrimidines which differ in the atoms attached to their single ring
1 Nitrogenous bases can form hydrogen bonds. 2  Adenine, Thymine, and Uracil can form TWO hydrogen bonds. 3  Guanine and Cytosine can form THREE hydrogen bonds. 4  In nucleic acids (DNA and RNA), nitrogenous bases can bind to each other by hydrogen bonding. 1 In DNA, Adenine binds to Thymine. 2  In RNA, Adenine binds to Uracil. 3  These hydrogen-bond interactions between nucleotides C-G and A-T or A-U are referred to as base-pairing or complementary base-pairing. 4  Base-pairing holds the double-stranded DNA molecule together.
Overview [edit]. A DNA nucleotide is composed of 3 main units: a sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. While the sugar and phosphate group alternate in sequence and form the backbone of the DNA double helix, the nitrogenous bases may differ in every adjoining nucleotide. The four nitrogenous bases present in DNA are adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C) and thymine (T). In RNA, the only differing nitrogenous base is uracil (U) (which replaces thymine in DNA and differs thymine only by the missing methyl group at carbon 5 of the pyrimidine ring)
Each nucleotide includes one nitrogenous base, attached to the 1’ carbon of the sugar. A nitrogenous base is an organic molecule containing both carbon and nitrogen atoms. The name nitrogenous base signifies that several nitrogen atoms act as bases in solution. 
The four nitrogen bases found in DNA are adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine. Each of these bases are often abbreviated a single letter: A (adenine), C (cytosine), G (guanine), T (thymine). The bases come in two categories: thymine and cytosine are pyrimidines, while adenine and guanine are purines (). The pyrimidine structure is produced by a six-membered, two-nitrogen molecule; purine refers to a nine-membered, four-nitrogen molecule.
These nitrogenous bases are adenine (A), uracil (U), guanine (G), thymine (T), and cytosine (C). These nitrogenous bases hydrogen bond between opposing DNA strands to form the rungs of the twisted ladder or double helix of DNA or a biological catalyst that is found in the nucleotides. Adenine is always paired with thymine, and guanine is always paired with cytosine. These are known as base pairs. The main biological function of a nitrogenous base is to bond nucleic acids together. A nitrogenous, or nitrogen-containing, base is an organic molecule with a nitrogen atom that has the chemical properties of a base. A nitrogenous base owes its basic properties to the lone pair of electrons of a nitrogen atom.
Of the nitrogenous bases, adenine and guanine are purines, which are aromatic compounds attached to an imidazole group, while cytosine and thymine and uracil compose a set of pyrimidines, which are one ring-aromatic compounds. While the sugar and phosphate group alternate in sequence and form the backbone of the DNA double helix, the nitrogenous bases may differ in every adjoining nucleotide. The four nitrogenous bases present in DNA are adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C) and thymine (T).
The nitrogenous bases can be in any order as long as they are attached to their complementary base. (Adenine pairs with Thymine and Guanine pairs with Cytosine) The orde … r of the bases in the DNA codes for traits. The many different orders they can go in gives everyone their uniqueness. 4 people found this useful. 