(United States). Group Home Supervisors in the United States may have to scrimp and save; the median compensation is $34K annually. Compensation ranges from $23K on the lower end to $44K per year on the higher end. In the end, more experience does seem to mean larger paychecks; seasoned Group Home Supervisors with more than 20 years of experience earn a predictably higher median salary of $41K.
This means that in a 5-bed group home with a 1:1 staff/client ratio, there is only one staff person available to the five people on any given shift. Remember it takes 5.3 people to cover one position 24 hours a day. So the real ratio that people actually experience is 1:5. If the staff person spends half their time filling out forms, cooking, cleaning, talking on the telephone, receiving supervision, etc., this leaves 48 minutes per shift for personal attention / engagement with each person 'served'. 48 minutes of engagement out of an eight hour shift is not a high level of support.
1 Find out the regulations pertaining to group homes, including how many residents you can have, how much staff you'll need, what kind of training the staff needs, what your facility must be equipped with, etc. [source: Schiffer 2  ]. Get first aid and/or CPR certification if necessary. 1 Acquire all the necessary permits and licenses. 2  Find out the regulations pertaining to group homes, including how many residents you can have, how much staff you'll need, what kind of training the staff needs, what your facility must be equipped with, etc. [source: Schiffer ].
Salary. The average salary for group home workers is $21,820 per year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. This breaks down to $10.49 per hour. The highest 10 percent make an average wage of $29,530 annually, or $14.20 per hour. The lowest 10 percent of group home workers make an average salary of $16,410 annually, or $7.89 per hour. Contributing Factors. The industry offering the highest level of employment is home health care services with 338,650 jobs at an average salary of $21,250 annually, or $10.22 per hour, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Linda is being pushed to place Darlene in a group home, by an expert and a system that doesn't understand supported living. Here's the picture, as I see it... In a shift-staffed group home, to cover one staff position twenty-four hours a day, it takes 5.3 'staff-man-years'. You're covering 3 shifts (that's 3 'staff-man-years'), plus weekends, statutory holidays, sick leave backup, and professional development days. If the staff person spends half their time filling out forms, cooking, cleaning, talking on the telephone, receiving supervision, etc., this leaves 48 minutes per shift for personal attention / engagement with each person 'served'. 48 minutes of engagement out of an eight hour shift is not a high level of support.
Alot of people do get the money but most of it is put back into the group home to pay the expenses of the occupants and the home itself. The expenses of the group home are mandatory if you want to keep your home from getting shut down or closed. But in a year a group home owner makes about $20,800 per child.
Most group home owners don't make on cent profit off of their group home, but if you are doing a group home to make money, you could get about 400 dollars a week per child from the state. The expenses of the group home are mandatory if you want to keep your home from getting shut down or closed. But in a year a group home owner makes about $20,800 per child.
By earning that degree and working your way up in the group home, you can also qualify for a manager position. According to data compiled by Indeed, group home managers earned an average salary of $70,000 as of December 2014. According to the BLS, employment of personal care aides is expected to increase 49 percent from 2012 to 2022, which is much faster than the average for all occupations.
The average pay reported by folks with 10 to 20 years of experience is around $34K. In the end, more experience does seem to mean larger paychecks; seasoned Group Home Supervisors with more than 20 years of experience earn a predictably higher median salary of $41K.