Note that many colleges with holistic admissions do not have specific course requirements for admission. The Yale University admissions website, as an example, states, Yale does not have any specific entrance requirements (for example, there is no foreign language requirement for admission to Yale).
To view the state course and credit requirements, look below for the section that matches when a student entered ninth grade for the first time. School counselors are available to answer any questions you may have about what is needed to reach the goal of high school graduation.
The State Board of Education adopted changes to the high school graduation requirements in January 2014. The new requirements are effective beginning with students who enter grade 9 in the 2014-15 school year. For students entering 9th grade beginning 2014-15 the new foundation curriculum plan with at least one endorsement will be required for admission consideration.
Courses without degree credit. Courses MATH:0100 Basic Algebra I and MATH:0300 Basic Geometry carry no degree credit. Students who take these courses, or courses equivalent to them at another college or university, may not count semester hours from these courses toward the 120 semester hours required for graduation.
Credit Hour Requirements & Policies. To earn a degree from the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must earn a minimum of 120 semester hours (s.h.) of credit towards graduation. You may find that you need to earn more than the minimum 120 semester hours if you.
Notes on CADR and Admission Standards CADR reflect the minimum number of credits required in six subject areas that students must earn to be eligible for routine admission consideration by four-year public baccalaureate institutions.
Math Requirements. Math is another subject that is absolutely needed to get into a 4-year college. Similar to English, college admission boards want to see at least 4 years of math; however, having only 3 years may not necessarily disqualify you for admission.
A minimum of two credits of laboratory science is required. At least one of the two credits must be in biology, chemistry, or physics. Students typically take this full credit course in two successive high school semesters.