Angiosperms, or flowering plants, undergo a unique process called double fertilization. After pollination brings a pollen grain to a flower's female reproductive structure (carpel), a pollen tube releases two sperm cells. One of these sperm cells unites with an egg cell to produce a diploid zygote. Angiosperms are plants that produce flowers and fruits, and they are the most common types of plants on Earth. Flowers are the reproductive structures of angiosperms. They include four basic parts: 1  Carpel: Female reproductive structure that makes eggs. 2  Stamen: Male reproductive structure that makes
What structure forms during angiosperm fertilization but does not form during fertilization among other types of plants? (1 point) a haploid egg cell a diploid zygote a haploid sperm cell a triploid cell 8. 
1 One sperm cell fuses with the egg forming the diploid zygote. 2  The other sperm cell fuses with the polar nuclei forming the endosperm nucleus. 3  Most angiosperms have two polar nuclei so the endosperm is triploid (3n). 4  The tube nucleus disintegrates. The megasporangia, called ovules, develop within the ovary. Meiosis of the megaspore mother cell in each ovule produces 4 haploid cells: 1  a large megaspore and. 2  3 small cells that disintegrate.
The female gametophyte, the megagametophyte, that participates in double fertilization in angiosperms is sometimes called the embryo sac. This develops within an ovule, enclosed by the ovary at the base of a carpel. Surrounding the megagametophyte are (one or) two integuments, which form an opening called the micropyle. The ovary, surrounding the ovules, develops into the fruit, which protects the seeds and may function to disperse them. The two central cell maternal nuclei (polar nuclei) that contribute to the endosperm, arise by mitosis from the same single meiotic product that gave rise to the egg.
Double fertilization in Arabidopsis. Double fertilization is a complex fertilization mechanism of flowering plants (angiosperms). This process involves the joining of a female gametophyte (megagametophyte, also called the embryo sac) with two male gametes (sperm). The ovary, surrounding the ovules, develops into the fruit, which protects the seeds and may function to disperse them. The two central cell maternal nuclei (polar nuclei) that contribute to the endosperm, arise by mitosis from the same single meiotic product that gave rise to the egg.
What structure forms during angiosperm fertilization but does not form during fertilization among other types of plants? (1 point)a haploid egg cell a diploid zygote a haploid sperm cell a triploid. 
Double fertilization. 1  One sperm cell fuses with the egg forming the diploid zygote. 2  The other sperm cell fuses with the polar nuclei forming the endosperm nucleus. 3  Most angiosperms have two polar nuclei so the endosperm is triploid (3n). 4  The tube nucleus disintegrates. The megasporangia, called ovules, develop within the ovary. Meiosis of the megaspore mother cell in each ovule produces 4 haploid cells: 1  a large megaspore and. 2  3 small cells that disintegrate.
During flowering plant reproduction, two structures are created: a zygote and the endosperm. A zygote will grow and develop into an embryo, or baby plant. The endosperm is the plant embryo's food source. This process of forming a zygote and endosperm is called double fertilization, and it is unique to angiosperms. Angiosperms are plants that produce flowers and fruits, and they are the most common types of plants on Earth. Flowers are the reproductive structures of angiosperms. They include four basic parts: 1  Carpel: Female reproductive structure that makes eggs. 2  Stamen: Male reproductive structure that makes sperm cells.
As in gymnosperms, the male gametophyte is the pollen grain. In order for fertilization to occur in most flowering plants, insects or other animals must transport the pollen to the pistil. A major distinguishing feature of angiosperms is the practice of double fertilization. In gymnosperms (conifers) and angiosperms (flowering plants), the meeting of the gametes occurs in the following way: male gametes are enclosed in pollen grains and are carried by wind or insects to the female reproductive organs.
The male gametophyte in angiosperms is significantly reduced in size compared to those of gymnosperm seed plants. The smaller size of the pollen reduces the amount of time between pollination — the pollen grain reaching the female plant — and fertilization. In gymnosperms, fertilization can occur up to a year after pollination, whereas in angiosperms, fertilization begins very soon after pollination. While the majority of flowers are perfect or hermaphrodite (having both pollen and ovule producing parts in the same flower structure), flowering plants have developed numerous morphological and physiological mechanisms to reduce or prevent self-