Celadrin is also known and has been proven to work very fast (within 30 minutes) when used as a local topical application. Celadrin was originsally sourced from a patented complex blend of special esterified fatty acids which are found in bovine tallow oil, though now, the African Kombo nut is the main source. Celadrin is an innovative all natural ingredient from vegetable origins, which has been shown to support joint health in dogs and has no side effects. Celadrin’s has a unique method of action which means that it can be given as an additional complimentary supplement for increased effect.
Celadrin has been sourced from a patented complex blend of special esterified fatty acids which are found in bovine tallow oil. It is then extracted and enhanced to make an effective treatment for various symptoms such as, joint pain and swelling. Most doctors have been supporting the effects that Celadrin can have. Although it is an all natural product your doctor will be more then happy to go through the effects of Celadrin with you. More and more doctors are open to alternative therapies now, and are happy to advise their patients on them.
Celadrin is made from a patented, complex blend of special fatty acids that have been esterified-they have been chemically changed into compounds called esters-to make them more bioavailable. Normally, the body has to convert fatty acids into esters in order to utilise them. The conclusion of a major clinical study reveals... “Celadrin provides an improvement in range of motion and overall function in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. Celadrin may be an (excellent) alternative to the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for the treatment of osteoarthritis.”.
100% bovine gelatin. Made from beef; no pork. Unflavored and unsweetened. Made in USA. Bernard Jensen's 100% bovine gelatin is the food of a thousand uses.. Unflavored and unsweetened, one level tablespoon of gelatin powder will jell one pint of liquid. Perfect to use with any recipe calling for gelatin. Made in the USA, this gelatin is made from beef
Celadrin's compound is made up of different fatty acid carbons, which have been arranged in a certain way to achieve maximum treatment for healthy joints. Celadrin is also known and has been proven to work very fast (within 30 minutes) as a pain relief. The Celadrin compound provides constant lubrication for the joints allowing the cell membranes to stop the inflammatory chemicals. Most doctors have been supporting the effects that Celadrin can have. Although it is an all natural product your doctor will be more then happy to go through the effects of Celadrin with you. More and more doctors are open to alternative therapies now, and are happy to advise their patients on them.
What is Celadrin?Celadrin is a registered trademark of Imagenetrix Corporation. Celadrin is also a proprietary blend of esterified fatty acid carbons of Myristate, Myristoeleate, Laurate, Oleate, Palmitate, and Palmitoleate in a base of tapioca and silica). There are only 2-3 studies reported (up to the date that I prepare this summary article).In a study, Hesslink et al evaluated 64 patients with chronic knee osteoarthritis at baseline, at 30 and 68 days after consuming either placebo or cetylated fatty acids (Celadrin; n = 33).
Maintains Joint Flexibility and Comfort. Celadrin may also help to maintain and support the healthy flexibility of joints along with supporting and maintaining joint comfort. Capsule and Celadrin are from a Bovine source (Beef Tallow). CONTAINS NO Corn, Wheat, Soya, Gluten, Lactose/Dairy. Celadrin is a unique formulation of esterified (stable) fatty acids that may help support and maintain the healthy inflammatory components of the immune system and help maintain healthy muscles and joints.
The Celadrin® used in our softgels is an animal source from bovine tallow. However this material goes through many patented processes and there is actually NO beef tallow left in the end product. There is no beef fat in Celadrin® and there is no calorie count. The conclusion of a major clinical study reveals... “Celadrin provides an improvement in range of motion and overall function in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. Celadrin may be an (excellent) alternative to the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for the treatment of osteoarthritis.”.
Celadrin is an all natural anti-inflammatory drug using complex fatty acids from bovine tallow oil. The drug has been shown to increase flexibility in joints, lessen joint degradation and held in cartilage creation. 
A – Celadrin® is one of the newest, most effective natural anti-inflammatory compounds that safely promotes flexibility and healthy joint function. A – Celadrin® is a very safe mix of fatty acids with no known or reported negative reactions or side effects. The esterification process takes place at extremely high temperatures (over 500 degrees Fahrenheit).