The name Cadence is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Cadence is: meaning a rhythmic flow of sounds. American Meaning: The name Cadence is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cadence is: meaning a rhythmic flow of sounds.
Irish Meaning: The name Cadence is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Cadence is: a rhythmic flow of sounds. French Meaning: The name Cadence is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Cadence is: Rhythmic. Latin Meaning: The name Cadence is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Cadence is: Rhythmic. In English the meaning of the name Cadence is: meaning a rhythmic flow of sounds. American Meaning: The name Cadence is an American baby name. In American
I knew what the word, Cadence, meant before ever considering it as a name for my child. However, I first heard the word used as a name in Shallow Hall; the little girl in the burn victim units' name was Cadence. Then I heard it used again in the movie American Wedding; Cadence was the sister of the bride. Too much like Candace, a name which I also dislike, while it has the ridiculous, tacky feel of names like Melody and Harmony. -- Anonymous User 1/11/2007. My first name is Cadence; in my opinion, it's a very, shall we say, unique name. You can thank my mother for that one.
The name Cadence is taken from the English vocabulary word which signifies the rhythmic flow of a sequence of sounds. Children's Books on the Baby Name Cadence. Dancing with Cadence: Disney Club Penguin (Tracey West) - Cadence is holding a dance-off at the Night Club, and the winner gets to perform alongside her on the Night Club rooftop!
[ 2 syll. ca-den-ce, cad-e- nce ] The baby girl name Cadence is also used as a boy name, though it is far more popular for girls. It is pronounced K EY-DahNZ †. Cadence's origin and use are both in the English language. The English word cadence refers to the rhythmic flow of sounds; it is ultimately of the Latin cadens. In literature, the name has appeared in Armistead Maupin's novel Maybe the Moon (1992); in film, the name has appeared in American Wedding (also known as American Pie 3) (2003). Cadence has 15 forms. 
Cadance /ca-dan-ce/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Cadance is with rhythm. Cadance is an alternate spelling of Cadence (Latin). Compare surname Clance. Kreatif forms: Cadanca, Cadancle, Cedance. 
Facebook Twitter Google+ Email. You can rustle up an Irish origin for Caden, but this name's popularity is about pure sound. You simply cannot get a more fashionable set of phonemes, and the nickname Cade is a winner too. But an entire classroom of rhyming boys is a real risk here. 
Cadence is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ca-dence. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 335 in baby name popularity for girls with 998 occurrences. It ranked 1878 in popular baby names for boys with 77 occurrences. 
Cadence /ca-den-ce/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAY-dens. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Cadence is with rhythm. Modern name based on the musical term. A feminine name linked with the masculine name Caden. Literary: Cadence Roth is the main character in Armistead Maupin's 1992 novel Maybe the Moon. Cadence Flaherty is a character in the 2003 film American wedding.
A Cadence is a rhythmic flow of sounds, as in a poem or a marching song. In the space of a few years in the early 2000s it suddenly became a popular name. 