Everyone is incredibly busy, and often we believe that we don't have the time to really think through an issue, said Jen Lawrence, co-author of  Engage the Fox: A Business Fable About Thinking Critically and Motivating Your Team  (Greenleaf Book Group Press, 2014).
§1. Critical thinking is a domain-general thinking skill. The ability to think clearly and rationally is important whatever we choose to do. If you work in education, research, finance, management or the legal profession, then critical thinking is obviously important. But critical thinking skills are not restricted to a particular subject area.
Critical thinking is a meta-skill-it governs a person's facility to process information in a logical manner. A person with critical thinking skills is capable of upgrading his own knowledge and can easily engage in independent self-learning.
What all of this means is that critical thinking skills are at a premium. The businesses that succeed now will be the ones that can best find or create managers and executives with the ability to “think outside the box” and see new possibilities for the future. The importance of abandoning assumptions.
Critical thinking gives you an intellectual approach that enables you to select from the available information that which is relevant to you and which you most agree with (e.g. what is the most up-to-date information, who is the most respected person in that area, what is the most credible source). In the workplace.
Therefore, critical thinking is focused on testing the validity of assumptions or beliefs by the application of a set of cognitive skills such as ‘interpretation, analysis, evaluation, inference, explanation and self-regulation’ (Facione, 2010: 5).
Critical thinking is a process which leads to reasoned conclusions, through the application of a set of skills. It can be applied and used in different contexts in order to test the validity of several hypotheses presented as solutions of a problem or an issue.
Lawrence noted that critical thinking helps employees gather all of the information required to analyze a situation, generate optimal solutions to a problem and get feedback from all the people involved in the situation. All of these steps, she said, contribute to better business solutions overall.