These include motor function, cognitive abilities (thinking and reasoning), sensory impulse interpretation, speech and language, bowel and bladder control, sexual desire, and emotional control. The commonly-used terms left brained and right brained refer to the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. Cerebrum (right and left). The cerebrum (right and left) is the upper, front portion of the brain and consists of two hemispheres, or halves. The two hemispheres are connected by the corpus callosum, which is a large bundle of nerve fibers. The cerebrum can be divided into four lobes: frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe
Report Abuse. I do believe that the right side of a brain controls the mathematical and logical thinking, as well as controlling your motor functions, while the left side of one's brain controls the creativity, artistic thinking, etc. of the individual. Source(s): I have a brain. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. the difference is that the right hemisphere controls the left half of the body and the left hemisphere controls the right half of the body....so if the left hemisphere for example gets paralyzed,right part of the body gets paralyzed...
The two hemispheres communicate information, such as sensory observations, to each other through the thick corpus callosum that connects them. The brain's right hemisphere controls the muscles on the left side of the body, while the left hemisphere controls the muscles on the right side of the human body. When you wink your right eye, that's the left side of your brain at work. Because of this criss-cross wiring, damage to one side of the brain affects the opposite side of the body. In general, the left hemisphere is dominant in language: processing what you hear and handling most of the duties of speaking. It's also in charge of carrying out logic and exact mathematical computations.
The human brain is divided into two hemispheres, the left and right, connected by a bundle of nerve fibers called the corpus callosum. The hemispheres are strongly, though not entirely, symmetrical. The left brain controls all the muscles on the right-hand side of the body; and the right brain controls the left side. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The left and right hemispheres of the brain have different functions. nothing there the same icelin tolliver wrote this. The left brain controls the right side of your body (i.e. being right handed). Characteristics of left brain are using logic, rationality, mathematical, enjoying puzzles, and is focused on written language. The right brain focuses more on art. Controlling the left side of the body, being left handed. The difference is that the left side of the brain controls the right sideof the body and vice versa. The back of the brain is thoughts and emotions. 6 people found this useful.
As for whether a person is right-brained or left-brained or even right-handed or left-handed the uses and preferences of the brain's two sections are far more complex than just a simple left vs. right equation. For example, some people throw a ball with their right hand but write with their left. Because of this criss-cross wiring, damage to one side of the brain affects the opposite side of the body. In general, the left hemisphere is dominant in language: processing what you hear and handling most of the duties of speaking. It's also in charge of carrying out logic and exact mathematical computations.
Wrinkled cortex increases the surface area of the brain, thereby increasing the number of neurons. This makes human brain to be more efficient than other vertebrates. Cerebrum is longitudinally divided into two major hemispheres, namely, left hemisphere and right hemisphere by the cerebral fissure. The two hemispheres are connected by the corpus callosum, which is made up of nerve fibers. 
The vertebrate cerebrum (brain) is formed by two cerebral hemispheres that are separated by a groove, the medial longitudinal fissure. The brain can thus be described as being divided into left and right cerebral hemispheres. 
While both sides of the cerebrum (right and left) are involved in all the activities listed above, brain research shows that the left side of the cerebrum is used more for language and logical processing, while the right side is more for visual and intuitive processing. Cerebrum (right and left). The cerebrum (right and left) is the upper, front portion of the brain and consists of two hemispheres, or halves. The two hemispheres are connected by the corpus callosum, which is a large bundle of nerve fibers. The cerebrum can be divided into four lobes: frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe