verge 1. 1. the limit beyond which something begins or occurs; brink: on the verge of a nervous breakdown. 2. the edge or margin of something: the verge of a desert. 3. a limiting belt, strip, or border of something. 4. a strip of turf bordering a walk or roadway. verge 1. n. 1. a. An edge or margin; a border. See Synonyms at border. b.
The Verge was founded in 2011 in partnership with Vox Media, and covers the intersection of technology, science, art, and culture. Its mission is to offer in-depth reporting and long-form feature stories, breaking news coverage, product information, and community content in a unified and cohesive manner. 
verge. 1  the edge, brink, or margin (of something): also used fig.: the verge of the forest, on the verge of hysteria. 2  Brit. a grassy border, as along a road. 3  an enclosing line or border; boundary, esp. of something more or less circular. 4  the area so enclosed. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a verge is the edge, border or brink of something. An example of being on the verge is the time right before scientists make a new discovery.
The Verge is an American technology news and media network operated by Vox Media with offices in Manhattan, New York. The network publishes news items, long-form feature stories, product reviews, podcasts, and an entertainment show. The website uses its own proprietary publishing platform with video content. On June 6, 2014, editors at The Verge and the @verge twitter handle began retweeting a Twitter account called @thisismynext which contained teasers for something coming soon, leading to speculation that The Verge would revive the This Is My Next brand for a new project.
The verge (or crown wheel) escapement is the earliest known type of mechanical escapement, the mechanism in a mechanical clock that controls its rate by allowing the gear train to advance at regular intervals or 'ticks'. 1 Verge timepieces tend to accelerate as the crown wheel and the pallets wear down. 2  This is particularly evident in verge watches from the mid-18th century onwards. 3  It is not in the least unusual for these watches, when run today, to gain many hours per day, or to simply spin as if there were no balance present.
2. a: something that borders, limits, or bounds: as (1) : an outer margin of an object or structural part (2) : the edge of roof covering (as tiling) projecting over the gable of a roof (3) British: a paved or planted strip of land at the edge of a road: shoulder. See verge defined for English-language learners