Prospit is derived from the word  prosperity , and the word respite, which would contrast with the root of Derse 's name (Derse is a combination of dearth and terse.) In addition, the Latin word prospicere means to look at, which may be a reference to Prospit's Skaian Clouds. Prospit has not been shown to have any Agents like Derse, although they do have Postal Workers. They also have a prison, where several guards are working. Compared to Derse, the prison on Prospit is less severe in assigning punishment for crimes.
T hus I’ve come up with a different way to decide Derse or Prospit, and you can pick either as you please! And this that For Trolls/Genderqueer people, your Derse or Prospit is simply decided by your Aspect! Because between the generations of trolls, we’ve seen that those who share an aspect, also share a Moon. Serkets are Light and Prospit, Zahhaks are Void and Derse, Leijons are Heart and Derse etc. And also I’m like 95% sure this is actually canon how you do it. I have done it. I have figured out the pattern! So while messing around trying to discover what determines Prospit or Derse, I may have stumbled on the answer! Below are the canon alignments for the Human characters.
Derse and Prospit are two very important places in Homestuck. players of Homestuck are assigned to either be a Derse or Prospit dreamer, and Derse and Prospit are the two moons who are at war, Derse is always going to win this war, but Prospit fights anyway. Derse is trying to destroy Skaia, while Prospit is protecting it. But the point of this analysis is not to tell you about these moons, but rather about the differences between them, and what seems to decide what kind of dreamer you are.
:D Well, there is the fact that Prospit dreamers are right up next to Skia, and can see prophetic clouds from Skia. Whereas if Derse dreamers were to look to the sky, they would only find horrorterrors, like Fef's lusus, if you understand what I'm getting at. 1 You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 2  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 3  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 4  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).
1,086 pages on this wiki. Prospit, also known as the Kingdom of Light, is one of the two kingdoms in the Incipisphere. Prospit wages an unending battle against the Dark Kingdom, Derse, protecting Skaia from the Dersite army, which seeks to activate The Reckoning and destroy it. This battle is one that Prospit is always destined to lose. Prospit has not been shown to have any Agents like Derse, although they do have Postal Workers. They also have a prison, where several guards are working. Compared to Derse, the prison on Prospit is less severe in assigning punishment for crimes.
Awakening Edit. Either Prospit or Derse can be chosen during pre-entry. If no dream moon is selected, the player's status is unawakened, and either Prospit or Derse can be chosen from the Player/Sprite Info page later on. Once a dream moon is chosen it cannot be changed.
Derse has always been destined to defeat Prospit, forcing the players to kill the Black King on their own to prevent Skaia from being destroyed. Derse is a portmanteau of  dearth  and  terse , which contrasts with the root of Prospit 's name. The demonym of Derse is Dersite. Derse is a shadow-cloaked violet city planet that orbits Skaia from far away, outside of The Veil, and is connected to its single moon by a large purple chain. Derse is ruled by the Black Queen, and the planet is inhabited by black-carapaced citizens who resemble black chess pieces. A series of spires exist on Derse, one for each player in a session of Sburb. The tops of these spires contain the data from pre-entry Kernelsprite prototypes.