Characteristics of Cancer Cells. Cancer is a cellular disease. Cancer Cells Lack Differentiation Cancer cells are nonspecialized and do not contribute to the functioning of a body part. Cancer Cells Have Abnormal Nuclei The nuclei of cancer cells are enlarged and may contain an abnormal number of chromosomes.
Changes in Physical Properties of Cancer Cells. The changes in cell behavior that occur as cancer develops are, in part, dependent on changes in physical properties of the cells. Some of the changes have been identified and may be used to identify cancer cells. Tumor cells display a characteristic set of features that distinguish them from normal cells. These traits allow the individual cells to form a tumor mass and eventually to metastasize to other parts of the body. 
Cancer cells are already cancer, it is redundant for a cancer cell to get cancer, however, it is true that cancer cells can die, for various reasons. The reason why cancer is … so dangerous to the body is that cancer receives all the same support that healthy cells receive, and is not attacked by the immune system. 
1 Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). 2  Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. 3  Older age can affect the risk of developing chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 
Cancer Cell Properties. Cancer cells have characteristics that differ from normal cells. 1  Cell Reproduction: Cancer cells acquire the ability to reproduce uncontrollably. 2  These cells may have gene mutations or chromosome mutations that affect the reproductive properties of the cells. 1 Normal cells reproduce properly. 2  Except for sex cells, all cells of the body reproduce by mitosis. 3  Sex cells reproduce through a process called meiosis. 4  Cell Communication: Cells communicate with other cells through chemical signals. 5  These signals help normal cells to know when to reproduce and when to stop reproducing.
Carcinoma is a type of cancer that develops from epithelial cells. Specifically, a carcinoma is a cancer that begins in a tissue that lines the inner or outer surfaces of the body, and that generally arises from cells originating in the endodermal or ectodermal germ layer during embryogenesis.
1 For example, cells can develop into heart cells, brain cells, lung cells or any other cell of a specific type. 2  Cell Death: Normal cells have the ability to self destruct when they become damaged or diseased. 3  They undergo a process called apoptosis in which cells break down and are disposed of by white blood cells. 1 Normal cells reproduce properly. 2  Except for sex cells, all cells of the body reproduce by mitosis. 3  Sex cells reproduce through a process called meiosis. 4  Cell Communication: Cells communicate with other cells through chemical signals. 5  These signals help normal cells to know when to reproduce and when to stop reproducing.
1 Cell Specialization: Normal cells have the ability to differentiate or develop into specialized cells. 2  For example, cells can develop into heart cells, brain cells, lung cells or any other cell of a specific type. 3  Cell Death: Normal cells have the ability to self destruct when they become damaged or diseased. 1 Normal cells reproduce properly. 2  Except for sex cells, all cells of the body reproduce by mitosis. 3  Sex cells reproduce through a process called meiosis. 4  Cell Communication: Cells communicate with other cells through chemical signals. 5  These signals help normal cells to know when to reproduce and when to stop reproducing.
There are numerous changes that must occur for a normal cell to become a cancer cell. Additional changes are needed for that single cell to form a group of cancer cells, called a tumor, and then for that tumor to grow and spread. 
Cancer cells have a number of abnormal characteristics that prevent them from functioning in the same manner as normal cells. They divide repeatedly and form tumors in the place of origin and in other parts of the body. Cancer is actually over a hundred different diseases. Cancer Cells Lack Differentiation Cancer cells are nonspecialized and do not contribute to the functioning of a body part. Cancer Cells Have Abnormal Nuclei The nuclei of cancer cells are enlarged and may contain an abnormal number of chromosomes.