As the levels of FSH and LH in the blood increase with puberty, the eggs begin to mature and a collection of fluid (the follicle) begins to develop around each. The first day of menses is identified as cycle day one.
Ovulation, that is a process by which a mature ovarian follicle releases an ovum, is triggered by the spike in the amount of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) released from the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland.
1 The pituitary gland is then triggered by this to release the follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). 2  The FSH is transported to the ovaries, via the bloodstream where it starts the growth of a follicle. 3  Upon the development of the follicle estrogen starts being produced.
GnRH stimulates (causes) the pituitary gland to produce follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), the hormone responsible for starting follicle (egg) development and causing the level of estrogen (the primary female hormone) to rise.
FSH. The hormone FSH FSH: Follicle Stimulating Hormone, which stimulates oestrogen production and the growth of follicles (egg-sacs) in the ovary. It is secreted by the pituitary gland. is secreted by the pituitary gland. FSH makes two things happen: 1  it causes an egg to mature in an ovary.
1 These hormones (FSH and LH) also trigger an increase in the production of the female hormone estrogen. 2  As estrogen levels rise, like a switch, it turns off the production of follicle-stimulating hormone. 3  This careful balance of hormones allows the body to limit the number of follicles that mature.
At the beginning of your cycle follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is produced by the pituitary gland in your brain. This is the main hormone involved in stimulating your ovaries to produce mature eggs. Follicles are the fluid-filled cavities in your ovaries. Each follicle contains one undeveloped egg.
LH. The hormone LH causes the mature egg to be released from the ovary. This image shows how the level of oestrogen changes during the menstrual cycle. Progesterone is another hormone secreted by ovaries: it maintains the lining of the uterus and stays high during pregnancy.
1 Two hormones, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), are released from the brain and travel in the blood to the ovaries. 2  The hormones stimulate the growth of about 15 to 20 eggs in the ovaries, each in its own shell, called a follicle.