Metamorphism is the change of minerals or geologic texture (distinct arrangement of minerals) in pre-existing rocks (protoliths), without the protolith melting into liquid magma (a solid-state change). The change occurs primarily due to heat, pressure, and the introduction of chemically active fluids. Contact metamorphism occurs typically around intrusive igneous rocks as a result of the temperature increase caused by the intrusion of magma into cooler country rock. The area surrounding the intrusion where the contact metamorphism effects are present is called the metamorphic aureole.
Definition of METAMORPHISM. : a change in the constitution of rock; specifically: a pronounced change effected by pressure, heat, and water that results in a more compact and more highly crystalline condition. ADVERTISEMENT
Contact metamorphism occurs when local rocks are metamorphosed by the heat from an igneous intrusion, such as limestone turning to marble along the contact zone. Some of the changes that occur in the older rock are due simply to the heat radiated from the igneous mass and to the pressures it creates. 
The original rock that has undergone metamorphism is called the protolith. Protolith can be any type of rock and sometimes the changes in texture and mineralogy are so dramatic that is difficult to distinguish what the protolith was. 1  Note that diagenesis and weathering are also a changes in form that occur in rocks. 
Foliation. Alteration of rock texture by metamorphism commonly results in a rearrangement of mineral particles into a parallel alignment, called foliation, as a result of directed stress. Foliation, called banding or layering, is probably the single most characteristic property of metamorphic rocks. Contact metamorphism occurs when local rocks are metamorphosed by the heat from an igneous intrusion, such as limestone turning to marble along the contact zone. Some of the changes that occur in the older rock are due simply to the heat radiated from the igneous mass and to the pressures it creates.
Confidence votes 19. Metamorphism is the process by which any kind of rock is changed into a metamorphic rock. Metamorphism uses heat and pressure to change the chemistry within a rock. 
metamorphism. in geology, process of change in the structure, texture, or composition of rocks rock,aggregation of solid matter composed of one or more of the minerals forming the earth's crust. The scientific study of rocks is called petrology. Contact metamorphism occurs when local rocks are metamorphosed by the heat from an igneous intrusion, such as limestone turning to marble along the contact zone. Some of the changes that occur in the older rock are due simply to the heat radiated from the igneous mass and to the pressures it creates.
metamorphism. 1. the process of change in the form and structure of rocks by the agency of heat, water, and pressure. 2. the change of particular types of rock, as limestone into marble. Also called epigenesis. See also change. — metamorphic, adj. change in form, structure, shape, appearance, etc. Noun. 1. metamorphism-change in the structure of rock by natural agencies such as pressure or heat or introduction of new chemical substances. anamorphism-metamorphism that occurs deep under the earth's surface; changes simple minerals into complex minerals.
Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form. 
metamorphism. 1. the process of change in the form and structure of rocks by the agency of heat, water, and pressure. 2. the change of particular types of rock, as limestone into marble. Also called epigenesis. See also change. — metamorphic, adj. metamorphism-change in the structure of rock by natural agencies such as pressure or heat or introduction of new chemical substances.