The term wireless refers, in the most basic and obvious sense, to communications sent without wires or cables. It is a broad term that encompasses all sorts of wireless technologies and devices, including cellular communications, networking between computers with wireless adapters, and wireless computer accessories.
An Ethernet or Wireless hardware address is a 6-byte hexadecimal number; for example: 080007A9B2FC. Each byte is written as two hexadecimal digits, so there are twelve hexadecimal digits; each hex digit is a number from 0-9 or a letter from A-F.
Wireless is a term used to describe telecommunications in which electromagnetic waves (rather than some form of wire) carry the signal over part or all of the communication path.
In the most general sense, a wireless system is any collection of elements (or subsystems) that operate interdependently and use unguided electromagnetic-wave propagation to perform some specified function(s).
802.11 Wireless Network Infrastructure. The following figure shows a simple example of a WLAN using a wireless access point and some of the Windows Server 2003 technologies on which a secure WLAN is dependent.
1 Wireless LAN networking is a perfect technology for environments where movement is required. 2  For example, retail environments can benefit when employees use a wireless portable computer or handheld device to enter inventory information directly into the store database from the sales floor.
1 For example, IEEE 802.11b, a prevalent wireless LAN technology, operates at a maximum of 11 megabits per second (Mbps), or about 30 to 100 times faster than standard dial-up technologies. 2  This data transfer rate is adequate for running a number of applications or services.
Wireless Networking. Networking technologies that connect multiple computers and devices together without wires -- i.e., in a wireless local area network or WLAN -- also fall under the wireless umbrella. Often, instead of referring to just wireless for these technologies, the term wi-fi or wifi will be used.
Wireless Industry. Wireless on its own is typically used to refer to products and services from the cellular telecommunications industry; CTIA, the Wireless Association , for example, is composed of wireless carriers, cell phone manufacturers, and others in the mobile phone market.