The very first record of the family name FOWLER was found in Norfolk, which is located in England. The FOWLER family traces their ancestral roots back to Anglo Saxon origin before the year 1100. From here they branched and migrated, gaining prosperity as a notable family of England and later other countries. This name is of ancient Anglo-Norman origin, and comes from the Anglo-Saxon word Fugal, meaning fowl. Old English and early American records carry frequent mention of the name in various forms, such as Fouler, but Fowler is the generally accepted form. - The House Of Fowler: A History of the Fowler Families of the South by Grover Parsons Fowler(1940).
Confidence votes 7. The surname Fowler has been traced back to English and Scottish origin, and is linguistically derived from fugelere, a classification of bird-catcher. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Fowler is an English and/or Scots surname with a linguistic origin in the Old English fugelere, indicative of a person occupied as a bird-catcher. 2. English and French: A variant of the English surname Corper,  which is a variant of the English surname Corpe,  derived from Old French corp, meaning, 'raven'.
Learn what others know about your family tree. Fowler in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Join others on the Fowler genealogy mailing list for discussion and sharing of information regarding family histories of Fowler surname and its variations. Note: Not all surnames have a mailing list. If you get the Page is Not Available message, no mailing list is available. Instead, check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Fowler in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Fowler surname forum. 
Origins of the Fowler Surname. While some countries have limited historical records for last name assignments, you are most likely to only find general guidance on the origin and meaning of the Fowler surname.
Fowler Name Meaning. English: occupational name for a bird-catcher (a common medieval occupation), Middle English fogelere, foulere (Old English fugelere, a derivative of fugol ‘bird’). Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press. 
The early traces of the name of Fowler date from the time when savage invaders from the northern areas of Europe altered the history and the map of Europe by their invasions and raids of what is now France and England. The name Fowler comes from the Anglo-Saxon 'Fugal, meaning fowl. It is of Anglo-Norman origin, however most of the Fowlers in America are of English descent. Henry the Fowler became King Henry I of Saxony in 919.
Though his surname is not Fowler, Henry I is included here as an example of usage of the term in relation to a name prior to the broad introduction of surnames in Europe. 1  Henry the Fowler, or Henry I of Germany (861–936), Duke of Saxony and King of the Germans. The name Fowler comes from the Anglo-Saxon 'Fugal, meaning fowl. It is of Anglo-Norman origin, however most of the Fowlers in America are of English descent. Henry the Fowler became King Henry I of Saxony in 919.
This interesting surname is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and is from an occupational name for a bird-catcher or hunter of wild birds. In the medieval period a fowler would have been an important position, and all major houses would have employed one. The derivation is from the Olde English pre 7th Century fugelere, hunter of wild birds. Job-descriptive surnames originally denoted the actual occupation of the namebearer, and later became hereditary. The name reached the New World in the early 17th Century, when it is recorded that one George Fowler, aged 22 yrs., sailed aboard the Primrose in July 1635, bound for Virginia.
For uses of Fowler other as a surname, see Fowler (disambiguation) . Fowler is an English and/or Scots surname with a linguistic origin in the Old English fugelere, indicative of a person occupied as a bird-catcher. The name Fowler comes from the Anglo-Saxon 'Fugal, meaning fowl. It is of Anglo-Norman origin, however most of the Fowlers in America are of English descent. Henry the Fowler became King Henry I of Saxony in 919.