On the Internet, an FSP (full-service provider) is an application service provider (ASP) that offers a wide range of Web-based information technology services to other companies-including the planning and creation of a Web presence, providing needed software applications, and hosting and maintaining the Web site. 
FSP. A gene on chromosome 4q21 that encodes a chemokine which, as a group, are involved in cell trafficking of leukocytes through interactions with 7-transmembrane and G protein-coupled receptors, and play critical roles in the development, homeostasis and function of the immune system.
In the case that your FSP file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit FSP file extensions. If your PC opens the FSP file, but it's the wrong application, you'll need to change your Windows registry file association settings. FSP File Opener. Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your FSP file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your FSP file.
In seconds, you will learn exactly what type of FSP file you have, the software program associated with your file, the publisher who created it, its security safety status, and a variety of other useful information. FSP File Opener. Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your FSP file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your FSP file.
Home. FSP Group is one of the global leading power supply manufacturer. Since its establishment in 1993, FSP Group has followed the management conception “service, profession, and innovation” to continuously fulfill its responsibilities as a green energy resolution supplier. 
FSP protocol is valuable in all kinds of environments because it is one of the only TCP/IP protocols that is not aggressive about bandwidth, while still being highly fault tolerant. FSP: reliable and bandwidth friendly way to access publicly available data. Some people calls it UDP FTP. 10-Sep-2009: After more than 4 years new release of fsp server and clients is finally available. Lot of fixes, GNU autotools build system was replaced by SCons, rmdir bug fixed, FSP now uses larger packet sizes by default so it should be bit faster.
Background : FSP Solutions is the leading independent insurance quotations aggregator for car, home and business insurance facilitating the products of most of SA’s leading insurers such as ABSA, Auto & General, Chartis (AIG), Etana, Hollard (eg. Pay as you Drive), New National, Oakhurst, Regent, Santam, Unity, and many more .......
File Service Protocol (FSP) is a UDP-based replacement for the File Transfer Protocol, designed for anonymous access with lower hardware and network requirements than FTP. As the FSP protocol is not officially recognized by IANA, it has no official port number. However, as a UDP equivalent of FTP, official FSP servers frequently run on UDP port 21, which is the same as FTP's TCP
What is the purpose of FSP. Written by A.J.Doherty@reading.ac.uk. FSP is a set of programs that implements a public-access archive similar to an anonymous-FTP archive. It is not meant to be a replacement for FTP; it is only meant to do what anonymous-FTP does, but in a manner more acceptable to the provider of the service and more friendly to the clients. About the only way to disrupt a FSP service is to flood the FSP site with network packets. FSP server prevents itself from 'counter-flooding' by filtering for legitimate requests using the following method: 1  Each request message contains a key.