Please try again later. StoCoat® Lotusan® is a smooth, vertical, above grade exterior wall coating with Lotus-Effect® technology for concrete, stucco, masonry and EIFS. Lotus-Effect® technology mimics the self cleaning capabilities of the lotus leaf. 1  Education. 
Bionic Facade Coatings. StoColor Lotusan® - for clean and dry facades. In addition to the excellent building physical properties, Lotusan facade paints and renders also incorporate the unique Lotus-Effect. The Lotus-Effect ensures that beautiful facades remain beautiful for longer. It enhances the self-cleaning effect: dirt runs off with the rain
StoCoat ® Lotusan ® Frequently Asked Questions Q1: What type of coating (paint) is StoCoat Lotusan? A1: Lotusan is a unique blend of proprietary ingredients that impart super-hydrophobic properties—the Lotus-Effect ® -- to the coating (paint). A9: Some water can be added to Lotusan to extend the working time of the product. For spray applications up to 5% dilution with water (40 ounces [1.2 L]) is permissible. The amount of water to add is proportional to the amount of colorant-darker colors use less water, lighter colors use more water.
StoCoat® Lotusan® is a smooth, vertical, above grade exterior wall coating with Lotus-Effect® technology for concrete, stucco, masonry and EIFS. Lotus-Effect® technology mimics the self cleaning capabilities of the lotus leaf. 
StoCoat ® Lotusan ® S647C 11/13 Printed in the U.S.A. Coatings Exterior The coating with Lotus-Effect ® technology that keeps buildings’ facades clean and attractive while saving money on maintenance and recoating. StoCoat ® Lotusan ® : Modeled on nature. The microstructure of a lotus leafmagnified 7,000 times: The nanoscopic photograph shows the extremelyreduced contact area for water and dirt. As thesurface is also highly water-repellent, waterimmediately forms droplets and flows off,taking dirt particles on the surface with it
Sto Corp. has duplicated that “lotus effect” in Lotusan, its self-cleaning silicone exterior paint. Lotusan was introduced to Europe in 1999, and now, it’s being sold in North America for the first time. Lotusan’s extreme resistance to water is a product of Sto technology. The coating, after it is applied, mimics the microstructure of the surface of a lotus leaf. Tiny peaks and valleys on the surface minimize the contact area for water and dirt. Lotusan is a flat finish paint available in 38 standard colors (Sto’s “classic color collection”) plus custom color tints. The coating can be used for new construction and recoat projects over concrete, stucco, EIFS, and fiber cement board substrates.
Uploaded on Sep 16, 2008. StoCoat Lotusan®: Dirt runs off with the water that falls on your facade. The Lotusan® exterior coating possesses a highly water-repellent surface similar to that of the lotus leaf. Its microstructure has been modeled on the lotus plant to minimize the contact area for water and dirt. The surface additionally offers enhanced hydrophobic properties. 
The StoCoat Lotusan exterior coating possesses ahighly water-repellent surface similar to that of the lotus leaf.Its microstructure has been modeled on the lotus plant tominimize the contact area for water and dirt. The surfaceadditionally offers enhanced hydrophobic properties. StoCoat ® Lotusan ® : Modeled on nature. The microstructure of a lotus leafmagnified 7,000 times: The nanoscopic photograph shows the extremelyreduced contact area for water and dirt. As thesurface is also highly water-repellent, waterimmediately forms droplets and flows off,taking dirt particles on the surface with it