1 The most common diabetes symptoms include frequent urination, intense thirst and hunger, weight gain, unusual weight loss, fatigue, cuts and bruises that do not heal, male sexual dysfunction, numbness and tingling in hands and feet. Approximately 10% of all diabetes cases are type 1. Patients with type 1 diabetes will need to take insulin injections for the rest of their life. They must also ensure proper blood-glucose levels by carrying out regular blood tests and following a special diet.
Diabetes is a disease that affects your body’s ability to produce or use insulin. Insulin is a hormone. When your body turns the food you eat into energy (also called sugar or glucose), insulin is released to help transport this energy to the cells. Pre-diabetes is a condition that causes a person’s blood sugar levels to be higher than normal but not high enough to be diagnosed with diabetes. The American Diabetes Association estimates that there are 41 million Americans that have pre-diabetes in addition to the 18.2 million
1 People with type 2 diabetes can produce insulin, but the body is not able to use the insulin effectively. 2  Symptoms of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes include. 3  excessive thirst, 4  excessive hunger, 5  weight loss, 6  fatigue, and. 7  excessive urination. 8  The cause of type 1 diabetes is believed to be an autoimmune reaction. 1 In type 1 diabetes, the body does not produce enough insulin. 2  People with type 2 diabetes can produce insulin, but the body is not able to use the insulin effectively. 3  Symptoms of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes include. 4  excessive thirst, 5  excessive hunger, 6  weight loss, 7  fatigue, and. 8  excessive urina
If you have diabetes and experience symptoms of high or low blood sugar, test your blood sugar and follow your treatment plan based on the test results. Get immediate help (call 911) if you don’t start feeling better quickly, if your symptoms worsen, or if someone you are with has these symptoms. In type 2 diabetes (adult-onset diabetes or non-insulin-dependent diabetes), the pancreas produces insulin, but there is not enough insulin or the body’s cells become resistant to its effects. Type 2 diabetes is the most common form of diabetes and is preventable in many cases.
1 Gestational Diabetes-this type affects females during pregnancy. 2  The most common diabetes symptoms include frequent urination, intense thirst and hunger, weight gain, unusual weight loss, fatigue, cuts and bruises that do not heal, male sexual dysfunction, numbness and tingling in hands and feet. Approximately 10% of all diabetes cases are type 1. Patients with type 1 diabetes will need to take insulin injections for the rest of their life. They must also ensure proper blood-glucose levels by carrying out regular blood tests and following a special diet.
View full size image. Diabetes is a condition characterized by high blood sugar (glucose) levels, and Type 2 diabetes is the most common form. Type 2 diabetes is a chronic disease, and left untreated, it can cause serious health complications. Causes. A hormone called insulin helps sugar get inside cells, which can then be used for energy. When the body's cells fail to respond properly to insulin, sugar builds up in the bloodstream, eventually leading to Type 2 diabetes.
Type 2 Diabetes: The Basics. Diabetes is a life-long disease that affects the way your body handles glucose, a kind of sugar, in your blood. Most people with the condition have type 2. There are about 27 million people in the U.S. with it. Another 86 million have prediabetes: Their blood glucose is not normal, but not high enough to be diabetes yet.
Some people, especially those with prediabetes or type 2 diabetes, may not experience symptoms initially. In type 1 diabetes, symptoms tend to come on quickly and be more severe. Some of the signs and symptoms of type 1 and type 2 diabetes are: 1  Increased thirst. 2  Frequent urination. 3  Extreme hunger. 4  Unexplained weight loss. 5  Presence of ketones in the urine (ketones are a byproduct of the breakdown of muscle and fat that happens when there's not enough available insulin). 6  Fatigue. 7  Irritability. 