Instrumental music gained importance rapidly and dramatically during the baroque period, One of the main developments in instrumental music was the sonata, a com position in several movements for one to eight instruments.
Many composers wrote specifically for the recorder, including Scarlatti, Schuetz, Schütz Telemann, Vivaldi, Bach handel And, purcell and the recorder was often used in operatic music of the. Period. Oboe the oboe was another wind instrument which gained great popularity in The baroque. era
Music was such an important part of life in the Baroque era that it can be found in all kinds of places. This instrument, the Trompe Dauphine, is a kind of hunting horn and would have been carried on horseback during the hunt and used to play signals to let the rest of the hunt know what was happening.
Harpsichord. The harpsichord, which we have already met in the Renaissance, came into its own in the Baroque period and is one of the instruments most closely associated with this era in music. The instrument became much bigger and more powerful in the Baroque era and could have two manuals (rows of keys).
A consort was a set of instruments similar in design and tone but varied in size and pitch. LISTEN: Praetorius, Terpsichore, Voltes (1612) Baroque History (Peri through J. S. Bach) The Baroque era of Western classical music is usually defined as the period from 1600 to 1750.
Flute. Wind instruments also became popular as solo instruments during the Baroque period, as well as finding an important place in the orchestra. One of the most popular of the wind instruments was the flute. In the Baroque era, it became very fashionable for noblemen to learn to the play
During the late baroque period, instrumental music became as important as vocal music for the first time. . In The Music Lesson (1662-1665), by the Dutch painter Jan Vermeer, the instruments shown are a viola da gamba and a virginal, which is a type of small harpsichord.
A lip-vibrated aerophone, the baroque trumpet is a musical instrument in the brass family (Smithers 1988). A baroque trumpet is a brass instrument used in the 16th through 18th centuries, or a modern replica of a period instrument. Modern reproductions include both natural trumpets and the slightly embellished vented trumpets (Barclay 1998).