Skin of a different nature exists in amphibians, reptiles, and birds. All mammals have some hair on their skin, even marine mammals which appear to be hairless. The skin interfaces with the environment and is the first line of defense from external factors. For example, the skin plays a key role in protecting the body against pathogens and excessive water loss. Reptiles and fish have hard protective scales on their skin for protection, and birds have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins. Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier, especially regarding the passage of chemicals via skin and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces.
On some animals, the skin is very hard and thick, and can be processed to create leather. Reptiles and fish have hard protective scales on their skin for protection, and birds have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins. Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier, especially regarding the passage of chemicals via skin and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces.
Every animal -- from cockroaches to apes -- makes melanin and can have albinism. Such animals fare poorly in the wild, says Chad Staples, a curator at Featherdale Wildlife Park in Doonside, Australia. Their rate of survival is virtually zero, says Staples. 
However, some  animals have evolved to have more protections in or on their skin  than this, including animals like turtles which have evolved to  change their body skin into a hard shell. Other animals rely on  their skin for camoflage, such as the speckled pattern on a fawn  (baby deer). Many animals have a layer if skin to protect their organs. Dogs,  cats, wolfs, elephants, birds, insects, and pigs all have a layer  of skin that can protect their organs an … d keep them warm in cold  climates. 1 person found this useful.
Every animal needs a protective layer on its outside. Some animals like beetles and crabs and turtles have hard shell layers on their outsides. Most other animals have a protective layer of skin. For most of the warm-blooded animals, skin is not enough to help them keep warm. Birds have feathers and mammals have hair. Some mammals have hairs that are tightly packed and cover most of their bodies. I guess you would call that fur. That helps keep them warm.
Starfish Skin. Although many organisms belonging to the echinoderm family have spiny, rough-textured skin, like sea cucumbers and sea urchins, starfish win the award for having the spiniest skin of them all. Their skin can be an array of various colors -- from bright, bold fuchsia and tangerine orange, to white and gray. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Starfish belong to the echinoderm family. Echinoderm literally translates to spiny skin, and although many starfish have skin with a spiny texture, not all do. There are more than 6,000 species of starfish, and many wallow at the bottom of the ocean floor
Mammals have fur, hair or body skin. They also give live birth. mammals are the only living creature that let baby's suck on their milk. Mammals have smooth skin, though sometimes it is covered with hair or fur. All mammals have either hair or fur, including humans. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Charlie N. 120,359 Contributions. I have spent many years renovating buildings and leading a commercial handyman crew.
Skin is the soft outer covering of vertebrates. Other animal coverings such as the arthropod exoskeleton have different developmental origin, structure and chemical composition. Reptiles and fish have hard protective scales on their skin for protection, and birds have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins. Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier, especially regarding the passage of chemicals via skin and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces.