A ligand is an ion or molecule which exists independently of any complex that it might form. In the complex [Co(NH 3) 6 ] 3+ , the ammonia molecules, which can exist outside of the complex, are acting as ligands. The complex is a combination of a Lewis acid (the central metal atom/ion) and some Lewis bases (the ligands). The main way of classifying ligands is by the number of points at which they are attached to, or bound to, the metal center. This is the denticity.
In coordination chemistry, a ligand (/lɪɡənd/) is an ion or molecule (functional group) that binds to a central metal atom to form a coordination complex. The bonding between metal and ligand generally involves formal donation of one or more of the ligand's electron pairs. EDTA 4− , when it is hexidentate, binds as a κ 6 -ligand, the amines and the carboxylate oxygen atoms are not contiguous. In practice, the n value of a ligand is not indicated explicitly but rather assumed. The binding affinity of a chelating system depends on the chelating angle or bite angle.
Naming Coordination Compounds. A complex is a substance in which a metal atom or ion is associated with a group of neutral molecules or anions called ligands. Coordination compounds are neutral substances (i.e. uncharged) in which at least one ion is present as a complex. 
1. An organic molecule attached to a central metal ion by multiple coordinate bonds. 2. An organic molecule attached to a tracer element, e.g., a radioisotope. 3. A molecule that binds to a macromolecule, e.g., a ligand binding to a receptor. 4. An organic molecule attached to a tracer element, for example, a radioisotope. 3. A molecule that binds to a macromolecule, for example, a ligand binding to a receptor. 4. The analyte in competitive binding assays, such as radioimmunoassay. 5. An atom or group covalently attached to a specified carbon atom in an organic molecule
Organometallic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds containing at least one bond between a carbon atom of an organic compound and a metal. Organometallic chemistry combines aspects of inorganic chemistry and organic chemistry. Organometallic compounds are widely used in homogeneous catalysis. However, if any of the ligands form a direct M-C bond, then complex is usually considered to be organometallic, e.g., [(C 6 H 6)Ru(H 2 O) 3 ] 2+ . Furthermore, many lipophilic compounds such as metal acetylacetonates and metal alkoxides are called metalorganics..
Many complexes feature coordination bonds between a metal and organic ligands. The organic ligands often bind the metal through a heteroatom such as oxygen or nitrogen, in which case such compounds are considered coordination compounds. However, if any of the ligands form a direct M-C bond, then complex is usually considered to be organometallic, e.g., [(C 6 H 6)Ru(H 2 O) 3 ] 2+ . Furthermore, many lipophilic compounds such as metal acetylacetonates and metal alkoxides are called metalorganics..
ligand. [lig′ənd, lī′gənd]. Etymology: L, ligare, to bind. 1 a molecule, ion, or group bound to the central metal atom of a chemical compound, such as the oxygen molecule in oxyhemoglobin, which is bound to the central iron atom. 2 an organic molecule attached to a specific site on a cell surface or to a tracer element. An organic molecule attached to a tracer element, for example, a radioisotope. 3. A molecule that binds to a macromolecule, for example, a ligand binding to a receptor. 4. The analyte in competitive binding assays, such as radioimmunoassay. 5. An atom or group covalently attached to a specified carbon atom in an organic molecule
Ligand Definition. A ligand is an atom, ion, or molecule that donates or shares one or more of its electrons through a covalent bond with a central atom or ion. It is a complexing group in coordination chemistry that stabilizes the central atom and determines it reactivity. Ligand Examples. Monodentate ligands have one atom that can bind to a central atom or ion. Water (H 2 O) and ammonia (NH 3) are examples of neutral monodentate ligands. A polydentate ligand has more than one donor site.
Metal ligand multiple bonds some ligands can bond to a metal center through the same atom but with a different number of lone pairs. The bond order of the metal ligand bond can be in part distinguished through the metal ligand bond angle (M-X-R). EDTA 4− , when it is hexidentate, binds as a κ 6 -ligand, the amines and the carboxylate oxygen atoms are not contiguous. In practice, the n value of a ligand is not indicated explicitly but rather assumed. The binding affinity of a chelating system depends on the chelating angle or bite angle.