Minimum Height Requirements. Most airlines have minimum height requirements for flight attendants to ensure that they can reach high enough to secure the overhead bins prior to flight. For example, United Airlines requires that flight attendants be at least 5 feet tall without shoes. Rather than a minimal height requirements, some airlines require that flight attendants have a minimal vertical reach. This is true of Hawaiian airlines, which requires that flight attendants can reach at least 82 inches above the floor
Airlines also require that flight attendants be able to sit in a seat and buckle the seat belt comfortably. 1  The height range for most airlines is between 5’0” - 5’ 1” and 5’8” - 6’3”. 2  Some airlines do not have height requirements, but instead require that you be able to reach a certain height. 
Tips. 1  Southwest Airlines requires that all flight attendant applicants are at least 20 years of age, have a high school diploma (or equivalent), can lift 50 pounds, and have proper authorization to work in line with the Immigration Reform Act. You will receive requirement information on how to become a Southwest Airlines Flight Attendant, such as providing high-quality customer service to passengers, in-flight responsibilities and what kind of operating conditions you might encounter during flights.
There is a minimum qualification/requirement for flight attendants. Qualification and requirements for flight attendants vary for different airline. Most airlines will require some or most of the qualification listed here. 1  At least 18 or 21 years of age (depending on the airline). 2  High school diploma or equivalent. 3  At lest 2 years of college or 2 years of customer service experience. 1 At least 18 or 21 years of age (depending on the airline). 2  High school diploma or equivalent. 3  At lest 2 years of college or 2 years of customer service experience. 4  Height requirement may vary from airline to airline.
While specific positions will have unique requirements (example: Flight Attendant minimum age requirement is 21 years of age; see individual job descriptions), you must possess at least a H.S. diploma/GED equivalent, be at least 18 years of age, and possess current authorization to work in the U.S. to work at Delta. A Flight Attendant's job revolves around the clock and your life has to move with it. In this video you'll see how new Flight Attendants balance the requirements of their flying schedule with the everyday demands of their personal schedule.
Becoming a flight attendant can be challenging. Competition for jobs is strong, and the number of jobs is not increasing; in fact, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics expects there to be about 200 fewer jobs for flight attendants in 2020 than there were in 2010. For example, United Airlines requires that flight attendants be at least 5 feet tall without shoes. Rather than a minimal height requirements, some airlines require that flight attendants have a minimal vertical reach.
Requirement No. 1: Minimum Age. First in a long list of flight attendant requirements is the minimum age. All flight attendants must be at least 18 years of age, but the minimum age can be higher depending on the airline – but never higher than 21 years. For example: at United Airlines, you must be 19. 
While flight attendants spend a majority of the time providing drinks, snacks and other comfort items to passengers, the primary purpose of a flight attendant is to make certain that passengers follow safety regulations. Other Qualifications. Flight attendants must be United States citizens or registered to work in the United States. Flight attendant applicants must pass an extensive FAA background check as well as a medical exam.
1 Southwest Airlines requires that all flight attendant applicants are at least 20 years of age, have a high school diploma (or equivalent), can lift 50 pounds, and have proper authorization to work in line with the Immigration Reform Act. 2  Resumes are kept on file with Southwest Airlines for up to 6 months. You will receive requirement information on how to become a Southwest Airlines Flight Attendant, such as providing high-quality customer service to passengers, in-flight responsibilities and what kind of operating conditions you might encounter during flights.
To qualify for certification, a flight attendant must complete a variety of training courses and demonstrate competency in performing the required duties of a flight attendant. Flight attendants must also complete periodic training courses and pass a safety examination from the FAA to maintain certification. Other Qualifications. Flight attendants must be United States citizens or registered to work in the United States. Flight attendant applicants must pass an extensive FAA background check as well as a medical exam.