Making the world better, one answer at a time. The winter solstice (and the summer solstice) ocur for a very interesting reason. The sun 'moves' around the earth in a path that is very tilted to the earth's equator. When the sun is farthest on this path north of the equator, it is the summer solstice. Twice a year. -Summer solstice, July 23rd-Winter solstice, December 13th The facts below only apply to the Northern Hemisphere-During the summer solstice, the north pole fa … ces directly at the sun, the suns rays hit directly on the tropic of cancer, it's the longest day of the year, & the start of summer.
In the Northern Hemisphere, it occurs when the sun is directly over the Tropic of Capricorn, which is located at 23.5° south of the equator and runs through Australia, Chile, southern Brazil, and northern South Africa. This year, the Northern Hemisphere winter solstice will occur at 4:03 pm MST on December 21, 2014. For a complete listing of the dates of the winter and summer solstice's and spring and fall equinox's through 2020, check out this site from the U.S. Naval Observatory. The summer solstice occurs when the sun is directly over the Tropic of Cancer, which is located at 23.5° North, and runs through Mexico, the Bahamas, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, India, and southern China. Because of the Earth's tilt, the sun is directly over the Tropic of Cancer near June 21.
Winter Solstice usually occurs I believe on December 21st in the Northern Hemisphere and June 21st in the Southern Hemisphere. -Summer solstice, July 23rd-Winter solstice, December 13th The facts below only apply to the Northern Hemisphere-During the summer solstice, the north pole fa … ces directly at the sun, the suns rays hit directly on the tropic of cancer, it's the longest day of the year, & the start of summer.
In the Northern Hemisphere, the winter solstice occurs either December 21 or 22, when the sun shines directly over the tropic of Capricorn; the summer solstice occurs either June 20 or 21, when the sun shines directly over the tropic of Cancer. In the Southern Hemisphere, the winter and summer solstices are reversed. 
Summer and Winter Solstice. The summer solstice occurs once a year in December when the Sun's track across the Australian sky reaches its highest point. It is the day that has the most daylight hours of any in the year. The summer solstice usually occurs on 21 December, but can occur between 20 and 22 December. The winter solstice is the day of the year that has the least daylight hours of any in the year and usually occurs on 21 June but can occur between 20 and 22 June. 
December Solstice: Shortest day of the year in the Northern Hemisphere. The December solstice is on either December 20, 21, 22 or 23. It is called Winter Solstice in the Northern Hemisphere, where it is the shortest day of the year. In the Southern Hemisphere, it is the Summer Solstice and the longest day of the year. The North Pole is tilted furthest from the Sun.
The winter solstice (and the summer solstice) ocur for a very interesting reason. The sun 'moves' around the earth in a path that is very tilted to the earth's equator. … When the sun is farthest on this path north of the equator, it is the summer solstice. -Summer solstice, July 23rd-Winter solstice, December 13th The facts below only apply to the Northern Hemisphere-During the summer solstice, the north pole fa … ces directly at the sun, the suns rays hit directly on the tropic of cancer, it's the longest day of the year, & the start of summer.
The winter solstice (and the summer solstice) ocur for a very interesting reason. The sun 'moves' around the earth in a path that is very tilted to the earth's equator. Twice a year. -Summer solstice, July 23rd-Winter solstice, December 13th The facts below only apply to the Northern Hemisphere-During the summer solstice, the north pole fa … ces directly at the sun, the suns rays hit directly on the tropic of cancer, it's the longest day of the year, & the start of summer.
The winter solstice occurs at a specific time, not just day. This year, at 12:11 p.m. EST on Saturday, Dec. 21, the sun shone directly over the Tropic of Capricorn, the farthest south the sun reaches. In the Southern Hemisphere, it was the longest day of the year. 
Twice a year. -Summer solstice, July 23rd-Winter solstice, December 13th The facts below only apply to the Northern Hemisphere-During the summer solstice, the north pole fa … ces directly at the sun, the suns rays hit directly on the tropic of cancer, it's the longest day of the year, & the start of summer.