It is traditionally served with a meat or vegetable stew spooned over it. Couscous is a staple food throughout the North African cuisines of Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Mauritania and Libya and to a lesser extent in the Middle East and Sicily. The couscous that is sold in most Western supermarkets has been pre-steamed and dried; the package directions usually instruct to add 1.5 measures of boiling water or stock and butter to each measure of couscous and to cover tightly for 5 minutes.
Couscous is one of the staple foods of the Maghrib (western North Africa). Couscous is made from two different sizes of the husked and crushed, but unground, semolina of hard wheat using water to bind them. Semolina is the hard part of the grain of hard wheat (Triticum turgidum var. durum), that resisted the grinding of the relatively primitive medieval millstone. The first of these steps, forming the couscous--that is, preparing couscous from scratch--is rarely done anymore, even by Moroccans, Algerians, and Tunisians. Only poorer folk, some rural populations, and Berber tribes still make couscous from scratch.
One of the earliest references to couscous in France is in Brittany, in a letter dated January 12, 1699. But it made an earlier appearance in Provence, where the traveler Jean-Jacques Bouchard wrote of eating it in Toulon in 1630. Couscous was originally made from millet. The couscous that is sold in most Western supermarkets has been pre-steamed and dried; the package directions usually instruct to add 1.5 measures of boiling water or stock and butter to each measure of couscous and to cover tightly for 5 minutes.
About our company DARI Products Discover the surprising story of the couscous through centuries Couscous in the countries of the Maghreb 1001 nutritive virtues of the couscous Couscous, the most popular dish from Morocco and North Africa, is now appreciated worldwide. South America became acquainted with couscous as well, through the Portuguese community who emigrated from Morocco. The expansion of couscous continued during the 20th century, driven by large waves of migration from North Africa to various European countries and especially France, where this dish became very popular.
Regular couscous is made from semolina wheat, while whole-wheat couscous derives from the whole grains of durum flour. This flour derives from durum wheat, which is high in protein and commonly used for other fare like pasta and pizza dough. A whole grain has its endosperm, germ and bran intact. 
Best Answer: Couscous is one of the staple foods of the Maghreb (western North Africa). Coucous is made from two different sizes of the husked and crushed, but unground, semolina of hard wheat using water to bind them. Semolina is the hard part of the grain of hard wheat (Triticum turgidum var. durum), that resisted the grinding of the relatively primitive medieval millstone. Couscous is also the name for all of the prepared dishes made from hard wheat or other grains such as barley, millet, sorghum, rice, or maize. Source(s): http://www.cliffordawright.com/history/c... Polo · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
COUSCOUS. COUSCOUS. Couscous (from the Berber word k'seksu) is the staple product of North Africa and the national dish of the countries of Maghrib, that is, Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia. Couscous spread from this area, where it originated, to Libya, Mauritania, Egypt, and sub-Saharan countries. 
Actually, couscous is a pasta, not a grain. It is made by mixing semolina (coarsely ground durum wheat) and water, and then shaping into the little grains of pasta. The past … a is then coated with flour to prevent them from sticking to each other. Couscous is a grain from the wheat plant; a staple of many North African countries, it tastes a bit like nutty pasta. It's about the size of a large grain of sand.   Originally it is a 'coarsely ground durum wheat', a kind of wheat semolina as it is for example the Rapunzel's cous-cous.
1001 nutritive virtues of the couscous. Couscous, the most popular dish from Morocco and North Africa, is now appreciated worldwide. Historians have different opinions as to the origin of couscous. Some claim that couscous, like pasta, originated from China; while others trace its origin to East Africa. However the most plausible evidence points to a North African origin. South America became acquainted with couscous as well, through the Portuguese community who emigrated from Morocco. The expansion of couscous continued during the 20th century, driven by large waves of migration from North Africa to various European countries and especially France, where this dish became very popular.