1 Sciatica is nerve pain from irritation of the sciatic nerve. 2  The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. 3  Sciatica pain is typically felt from the low back to behind the thigh and radiating down below the knee. 4  Treatments for sciatica depend on the underlying cause and the severity of the pain. Sciatica facts. 1 
Sciatica Symptoms. Sciatica is a term for pain that radiates along the sciatic nerve, anywhere from the lower back, buttocks, down the back of the leg, to the foot. There may also be weakness, numbness, tingling, particularly in the leg and/or foot. Sciatica refers to pain along the path of the sciatica nerve. It is usually caused by pressure on the sciatic nerve. Fortunately, most cases of sciatica are not serious and usually resolve within six weeks.
Sciatica is leg pain caused by a pinched nerve in the lower back. Although the pangs begin in nerve roots located on either side of the lower spine, they then course through the sciatic nerve, which runs the length of each leg from the buttock down to the foot. 
Symptoms. Pain that radiates from your lower (lumbar) spine to your buttock and down the back of your leg is the hallmark of sciatica. You might feel the discomfort almost anywhere along the nerve pathway, but it's especially likely to follow a path from your low back to your buttock and the back of your thigh and calf. It can be worse when you cough or sneeze, and prolonged sitting can aggravate symptoms. Usually only one side of your body is affected. Some people also have numbness, tingling or muscle weakness in the affected leg or foot. You might have pain in one part of your leg and numbness in another part.
When you experience sciatica, symptoms can range from back pain and tingling to pain and numbness that radiates down your legs. Exercise for the most part can help sciatica sufferers relieve muscle pain and stiffness. However, certain exercises can harm, not help you. Photo Credit Dirima/iStock/Getty Images. Sciatica is a painful condition that affects your lower back, causing the spinal discs of your lumbar vertebrae to slip out of place and press on your sciatic nerve, which runs from your lower back down each leg.
Sciatica usually affects only one side of the lower body. Often, the pain extends from the lower back all the way through the back of the thigh and down through the leg. Depending on where the sciatic nerve is affected, the pain may also extend to the foot or toes. Common symptoms of sciatica include: 1  Pain in the rear or leg that is worse when sitting. 2  Burning or tingling down the leg. 3  Weakness, numbness, or difficulty moving the leg or foot.
A woman holds her back in pain after exercising. Photo Credit Dirima/iStock/Getty Images. Sciatica is a painful condition that affects your lower back, causing the spinal discs of your lumbar vertebrae to slip out of place and press on your sciatic nerve, which runs from your lower back down each leg.
A pinched nerve in the lower spine causes sciatica. The most common cause of sciatica is a herniated disc in the lumbar spine (lower back) that puts pressure on the sciatic nerve or a nerve root. A herniated disc can occur suddenly and cause acute pain or it may develop gradually. Sciatica refers to pain along the path of the sciatica nerve. It is usually caused by pressure on the sciatic nerve. Fortunately, most cases of sciatica are not serious and usually resolve within six weeks.
Sciatica is pain, tingling, or numbness produced by an irritation of the nerve roots that lead to the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is formed by the nerve roots coming out of the spinal cord into the lower back. It goes down through the buttock, then its branches extend down the back of the leg to the ankle and foot. 