Rose-ringed parakeets measure on average 40 cm (16 in) in length, including the tail feathers, a large portion of their total length. Their average single-wing length is about 15–17.5 cm (5.9–6.9 in). In the wild, this is a noisy species with an unmistakable squawking call. It is herbivorous and not migratory. 
Nesting Requirements: A cage for a pair of breeding Parakeets should be a minimum size of 20 x 20 x 20, and should contain a wooden nest box that is at least 12 x 12. Some Parakeet breeders place wooden inserts into the bottom of their nest boxes to prevent splay legs. Proper nesting material, such as pine shavings, should be provided.
Taming of rumped parrots is hard and only possible with a lot of effort and time. DIET: Apart from millet and canary seeds, which are the main elements of the mixture for these birds, there are also shelled oats, hemp, black seeds, flax and seeds of saffron. The sunflower seeds can be offered in small doses. Aviaries for a pair don't need to be big and it is not rare for them to breed in a larger cage. The nest should be put on a higher place within the aviary or cage. The most suitable dimnesions for a nest are: 22 cm (9 in) in width and length and 30 cm (12 in) in height. Breeding begins in April.
Gaze deep into your parakeet's eyes. From birth until about 8 months, a parakeet's iris (the colored part) gradually lightens. If your parakeet has all-black eyes, he is probably less than 4 months old. If he has a very light iris that distinctly contrasts with his pupil, he is at least 8 months old. When a parakeet is about 3 or 4 months old, it molts for the first time. If your bird is younger than that, his head is adorned with stripes all the way from the forehead down the back of his neck. After his first molt, he loses the stripes from his forehea
Most baby ringneck will wean when they are 10 weeks old; however, if the ringneck is kept by itself expect a 11 – 12 week weaning period. To help your ringneck wean, you can start with warm sweet yams or mash potatoes. This helps your bird adapt to solid foods. 
The socialization of a ringneck begins as soon as the ringneck is a baby. In the wild, mother ringnecks stay with their chicks for at least 10 days. Humans simply cannot replicate this time spent with their mother but should make every effort to ensure the chick feels secure. Weaning. When a ringneck is with its mother they can wean as early as 10 weeks. This is normal as the mother and father make perfect examples of what to do. When ringnecks are kept with humans they usually wean around 12-13 weeks but some chicks may take longer if kept alone.
One look at a Indian ring-necked parakeets, however, should be enough to clue one in on the fact that not all parakeets are budgies. “With the Indian ringneck, there’s 9 inches of body to go along with 9 inches of tail,” Bush said. 
In the beginning, a female fed by a male, takes care of the younglings, but after 12 days, a male also participates in the feeding. Younglings leave the nest after 28 days and become independent 14 days after leaving the nest. The younglings are separated from their parents 4 weeks after leaving the nest. Aviaries for a pair don't need to be big and it is not rare for them to breed in a larger cage. The nest should be put on a higher place within the aviary or cage. The most suitable dimnesions for a nest are: 22 cm (9 in) in width and length and 30 cm (12 in) in height. Breeding begins in April.