Definition of HARMONIC. 1. a: overtone; especially: one whose vibration frequency is an integral multiple of that of the fundamental b: a flutelike tone produced on a stringed instrument by touching a vibrating string at a nodal point. 2.
If all the energy in a signal is contained at the fundamental frequency, then that signal is a perfect sine wave. If the signal is not a perfect sine wave, then some energy is contained in the harmonics. Some waveforms contain large amounts of energy at harmonic frequencies.
For a signal whose fundamental frequency is f, the second harmonic has a frequency 2 f, the third harmonic has a frequency of 3 f, and so on. Let w represent the wavelength of the signal or wave in a specified medium.
Full Definition of HARMONY. 1. archaic: tuneful sound: melody. 2. a: the combination of simultaneous musical notes in a chord b: the structure of music with respect to the composition and progression of chords c: the science of the structure, relation, and progression of chords.
A harmonic is a signal or wave whose frequency is an integral (whole-number) multiple of the frequency of some reference signal or wave. The term can also refer to the ratio of the frequency of such a signal or wave to the frequency of th
Definition: A harmonic frequency is a multiple of a fundamental frequency. A fundamental frequency of 500Hz has a first harmonic frequency of 1000Hz, double the fundamental frequency. Its second harmonic is 1500Hz, the third harmonic is 2000Hz and so on.
(R adio F requency remote control) A handheld, wireless device used to operate audio, video and other electronic equipment using radio frequency (RF) transmission. Unlike the more common infrared (IR) remotes, RF remotes do not require line of sight and do not have to be aimed at the equipment.
View More. Definition: A harmonic frequency is a multiple of a fundamental frequency. A fundamental frequency of 500Hz has a first harmonic frequency of 1000Hz, double the fundamental frequency. Its second harmonic is 1500Hz, the third harmonic is 2000Hz and so on.