So what are some of the most common traditional foods on a traditional Russian restaurant’s menu? 1  Borshch, of course, is beet soup, and one of the most famous Russian traditional foods. 2  You may have already heard of pirozhki. 3  Caviar, or ikra is really something to get worked up about in Russia. 4  Blini are also served rolled with a variety of 5  ... Rus 1 You can expect to find sour cream, or smetana, accompanying almost any Russian traditional food —with crepes, in soups, and even sometimes in dessert. 2  Often, this sour cream is fresh and often melts into any warm dish, adding to its distinctive flavor. 3  Russians love ice cream, called morozhenoe.
In Russia, there is always bread on the table. There are special feelings that Russians have towards rye bread (ржано́й хлеб), also known as black bread (чёрный хлеб) because of its dark color. Black bread is considered a traditional food in Russian homes and every foreigner absolutely needs to try it. The three meals of the day in Russia are zavtrak, obed and uzhin. With the exception of zavtrak, there are no exact English translations for these daily meals. For example, the second meal, obed, is served around 2 p.m. and can be called either lunch or dinner in English.
Russian food is very different and you can choose the best variant for you. We present you the main dishes, which are preferred by Russian people. Soup is the favorite hot dishe of Russian people. There are many different kinds of Russian soups. Shchi – is a cabbage soup, which is the most popular in Russian Federation. This soup is made with the sauerkraut or cabbage. You can also add meat to this soup, but also you can cook it only with the cabbage. Also you can add eggs, flour, milk or water, potatoes and a lot of other ingredients if you want to do this. Blini or pancakes is a national dish of Russia. They can be eaten with the sour-cream, honey, caviar, meat and with a lot of other products. Shashlyk is a favorite dish
Recent scientific research shows that there are more neurons in our guts than in our brain. Gut flora is a complex system that affects our mood, our well-being, our health, and even our cognitive capacities. So the idea that we are what we eat is not just a metaphor, it’s the truth. If that is really the case (and even if it is not), to eat like a Russian is to become one. The intensity of Russian food and drinks is not to be underestimated. A typical Russian meal leaves you very satisfied, drunk, and often unable to move
1 Borshch, of course, is beet soup, and one of the most famous Russian traditional foods. 2  Beets seem a strange base for soup to many Westerners, but there are plenty of reasons that this hearty soup is one of Russia’s most famous dishes. 1 You can expect to find sour cream, or smetana, accompanying almost any Russian traditional food —with crepes, in soups, and even sometimes in dessert. 2  Often, this sour cream is fresh and often melts into any warm dish, adding to its distinctive flavor. 3  Russians love ice cream, called morozhenoe.
The name of the soup comes from the Russian word botva, which means  leafy tops of root vegetables , and, true to its name, it is made with the leafy tops of young beets, sorrel, scallions, dill, cucumbers, and two types of kvass. Mustard, garlic, and horseradish are then added for flavor. This wholly native food remained the staple for the vast majority of Russians well into the 20th century. Russia's great expansions of culture, influence, and interest during the 16th–18th centuries brought more refined foods and culinary techniques, as well as one of the most refined food countries in the world.
You are here: » Recipes. Our recipes represent a rich collection of traditional Russian recipes from old times to nowadays reflecting the spirit of Russian people. Russian recipes are the classics of world cuisine and you have a great chance to discover this delicious world. 
Russian cuisine is a collection of the different cooking traditions of the Russian people. The cuisine is diverse, as Russia is by area the largest country in the world. Russian cuisine derives its varied character from the vast and multi-cultural expanse of Russia. Moreover, it is necessary to divide Russian traditional cuisine and Soviet cuisine, which has its own peculiarity. This wholly native food remained the staple for the vast majority of Russians well into the 20th century. Russia's great expansions of culture, influence, and interest during the 16th–18th centuries brought more refined foods and culinary techniques, as well as one of the most refined food countries in the world.
Russia has its own ideas about how and what to eat. Russian people like to eat home-cooked food, and rarely buy prepared meals at supermarkets. Usually Russians eat three times a day and prefer potatoes, which are eaten almost daily. The three meals of the day in Russia are zavtrak, obed and uzhin. With the exception of zavtrak, there are no exact English translations for these daily meals. For example, the second meal, obed, is served around 2 p.m. and can be called either lunch or dinner in English.