If you are covered by your credit card, make sure to use it to pay for your reservations. You can update your credit card info here. If you've been in an accident while driving a Zipcar and you've filed a claim with your credit card company, they will want to see documentation from Zipcar. You'll find the gas card in the driver's sun visor. To fill up, you’ll need to enter the vehicle's mileage (the odometer reading on the dash). You’ll also need the first six digits of your Zipcard number or your gas ID number. Watch a short video on how to fill up.
Zipcar provides automobile reservations to its members, billable by the hour or day. Zipcar members pay a monthly or annual membership fee in addition to car reservations charges. Zipcar was founded in 2000 by Cambridge, Massachusetts residents Antje Danielson and Robin Chase. Zipcar operates as a subsidiary of Avis Budget Group. Scott Griffith, who had run the company for the previous 10 years, resigned the day after the acquisition closed, and passed the reins to a new company president, Mark Norman. In early 2014, Kaye Ceille took over as Zipcar's North American President.
Zipcar membership can be cancelled at any time by contacting the office. You can do this either through email or through the local phone number listed on the site. 
Here's what you should know if you reserve a Zipcar in Spain: 1  Avancar branding: The cars are called Avancars. 2  The vehicle branding looks similar to what that you're used to, but will say Avancar instead. 3  Bring your Zipcard: You cannot start your reservation from the mobile app. You'll find the gas card in the driver's sun visor. To fill up, you’ll need to enter the vehicle's mileage (the odometer reading on the dash). You’ll also need the first six digits of your Zipcard number or your gas ID number. Watch a short video on how to fill up.
1 Zipcar App and Reservation System. 2  You can use the Zipcar app to manage your account’s billing information, find your nearest home location, and reserve a vehicle. 3  You can also call Zipcar’s hotline to make a reservation, but this costs $3.95 per use. 1 Monthly Driving Plan: $6 monthly fee, which is not refunded if you cancel before the month is up. 2  Each co-driver costs $3 extra per month. 3  This makes for an annual fee of $72 for a single driver. 4  Rates are identical to the Occasional Driving Plan.
You can reserve a Zipcar for as little as one hour, or as much as 7 days at a time. Whether it's a quick shopping trip or an extra long escape from the city, you can book your car or van in half-hour increments. If you'd like to keep a car for more than 7 days, you can call us and we'll try to help you out. 1 If over 75 years of age have two years driving experience in the last 5 years with no accidents or claims in that time. 2  Have a driving record that meets the following requirements: 3  Have held a full driving licence for a minimum of 12 months. 4  Have no more than 6 penalty points on your driving licence.
You can reserve a Zipcar for as little as one hour, or as much as 7 days at a time. Whether it's a quick shopping trip or a full week of freedom, you can book in half-hour increments. If you'd like to keep a car for more than 7 days, you can call us and we'll try to help you out. If there's a problem with your reservation or vehicle, please call Zipcar. While garage attendants have a good working relationship with Zipcar, they are employed by the garage — not by Zipcar. If you have an issue, the attendant may not be able to assist you in the same way that a Zipcar rep can.
If you've left something in your Zipcar, you can re-enter the car within three hours of the end of your reservation to retrieve the item, as long as the car hasn't been reserved by someone else. Please don't start the vehicle, or you will be charged for the use. You'll find the gas card in the driver's sun visor. To fill up, you’ll need to enter the vehicle's mileage (the odometer reading on the dash). You’ll also need the first six digits of your Zipcard number or your gas ID number. Watch a short video on how to fill up.
You can reserve a Zipcar for as little as one hour, or as much as 7 days at a time. Whether it's a quick shopping trip or a full week of freedom, you can book in half-hour increments. If you'd like to keep a car for more than 7 days, you can call us and we'll try to help you out. You'll find the gas card in the driver's sun visor. To fill up, you’ll need to enter the vehicle's mileage (the odometer reading on the dash). You’ll also need the first six digits of your Zipcard number or your gas ID number. Watch a short video on how to fill up.