The  Mediterranean climate is also called the Dry summer-subtropical  climate. Many locations with a such climate have an abudant  sunshine duration (usually above 2 500 hours) year-round but  especially in summer where cloudy days are almost non-existant but  even in winter during the wet season.
Mediterranean climate is a fairly dry climate. Almost no rain falls during the summer, so most of the rain falls during the cooler winter. The summer experiences cold ocean currents that bring dry air and no precipitation. During the winter the currents shift and warmer, moist air brings rain to these areas.
Example sentences. 1  Much of southern Australia experiences a typical Mediterranean climate with hot dry summers and predominantly winter rainfall. 2  While Ginkgo biloba is a hardy tree, it prefers areas with a distinct seasonality and moderate rainfall, such as Mediterranean climates with wet winters and hot summers.
Mediterranean Climate. a subtropical climate with hot dry summers and mild rainy winters. It occurs in the countries of the Mediterranean region; in the USSR such a climate is found on the Southern Crimean Shore and along the Black Sea coast of the Caucasus northwest of Tuapse.
Mediterranean climate is characterized by wet, mild winters and large, warm, dry summers. Most part of yearly rainfall occurs during the winter and there can be many dry months, with the exception of summer storms. Due to summer drought, wild fires are, also, a Mediterranean climate characteristic.
A climate distinguished by warm, wet winters under prevailing westerly winds and calm, hot, dry summers, as is characteristic of the Mediterranean region and parts of California, Chile, South Africa, and SW Australia.
The Mediterranean climate is characterized by warm to hot, dry summers and mild to cool, wet winters.
1 Much of southern Australia experiences a typical Mediterranean climate with hot dry summers and predominantly winter rainfall. 2  While Ginkgo biloba is a hardy tree, it prefers areas with a distinct seasonality and moderate rainfall, such as Mediterranean climates with wet winters and hot summers.