A: When you have mumps, you should avoid prolonged, close contact with other people until at least five days after your salivary glands begin to swell because you are contagious during this time. The time it takes for symptoms to appear after a person is exposed to the virus can range from 12 to 25 days. You should not go to work or school. You should stay home when you are sick with mumps and limit contact with the people you live with; for example, sleep in a separate room by yourself if you can. 
How long is a person with mumps contagious? People with mumps are usually considered most in-fectious from a few days before until 5 days after the onset of parotitis. Therefore, CDC recommends isolating mumps patients for 5 days after their glands begin to swell. What are the symptoms of mumps? Individuals with mumps usually first feel sick with nonspecific symptoms like headache, loss of appe-tite, and low-grade fever. The most well-known sign of mumps is parotitis, the swelling of the salivary glands, or parotid glands, below the ear.
A person infected with mumps can spread the virus to a non-infected person from approximately 3 days before symptoms appear, to 5 days after swelling of the salivary glands. Return to Top. Mumps illness is usually not serious. Severe complications are rare. However, mumps can sometimes lead to inflammation of the ovaries (oophoritis), miscarriage in early pregnancy, and very rarely to deafness or inflammation of the brain (encephalitis).
A person with mumps is contagious anytime from about three days prior to the onset of the swelling of the salivary glands (called parotitis) to nine days after the onset. A person can spread the disease if he or she becomes infected with the virus, even if symptoms never develop. 
1 FACT: Mumps is most contagious from one to two days before to five days after the onset of infection in the salivary glands (parotitis). 2  FACT: About two to three out of every 10 adolescent or adult men who have mumps may experience painful swelling of the testicles. Symptoms usually appear between 12 and 25 days after a person has been exposed to the mumps virus. As many as 30 to 40 percent of infected people will not have symptoms and nearly 50 percent will have non-specific or mostly respiratory symptoms, with or without infection in the salivary glands.
After 16 to 18 days, on average, symptoms can appear. This period between mumps transmission and the start of mumps symptoms is called the incubation period.. In some cases, the incubation period can be as short as 12 days or as long as 25 days. A person is not contagious during the early mumps incubation period. A person is most contagious about three days prior to the onset of the swelling of the salivary glands (called parotitis) to nine days after the onset of symptoms. 
1 FACT: Mumps can be prevented with a safe and effective vaccine. 2  FACT: Mumps is most contagious from one to two days before to five days after the onset of infection in the salivary glands (parotitis). Symptoms usually appear between 12 and 25 days after a person has been exposed to the mumps virus. As many as 30 to 40 percent of infected people will not have symptoms and nearly 50 percent will have non-specific or mostly respiratory symptoms, with or without infection in the salivary glands.
Mumps is a contagious viral infection that can cause painful swelling of the salivary glands, especially the parotid glands (between the ear and the jaw). Some people with mumps won't have gland swelling. They may feel like they have a bad cold or the flu instead. Mumps usually goes away on its own in about 10 days. This is called the incubation period. Some people who are infected with the mumps virus don't have any symptoms. If you have more serious symptoms, such as a stiff neck or a severe headache, painful testicles, or severe belly pain, call your doctor right away.
Mumps is a contagious viral infection that used to be common in children before the introduction of the MMR vaccine. It’s most recognisable by the painful swellings at the side of the face under the ears (the parotid glands), giving a person with mumps a distinctive hamster face appearance. Mumps is spread in the same way as colds and flu – through infected droplets of saliva that can be inhaled or picked up from surfaces and transferred into the mouth or nose. A person is most contagious a few days before the symptoms develop and for a few days afterwards.