The incubation period for bubonic plague is usually 2 to 6 days. If bubonic plague is untreated, plague bacteria invade the bloodstream and spread rapidly, causing septicemic plague, and if the lungs are seeded, secondary pneumonic plague. Septicemic and pneumonic plague may also be primary manifestations.
The period between becoming infected and the start of plague symptoms is called the plague incubation period. The bubonic plague incubation period is typically two to six days. The primary pneumonic plague incubation period is usually one to three days. The Plague.
1 People infected with plague usually develop “flu-like” symptoms after an incubation period of 3-7 days. 2  There are 3 forms of plague infection depending on the route of infection: bubonic, septicaemic and pneumonic. 3  Bubonic-characterized by painful swollen lymph nodes or ‘buboes’- is the most common form.
For example, the pneumonic plague incubation period is usually one to three days; for bubonic plague, the incubation period is typically two to six days.
Incubation Period for Pneumonic Plague. When a person becomes infected with the bacteria that cause pneumonic plague, the bacteria begin to multiply within the lungs. After one to three days, symptoms of pneumonic plague can begin.
Plague Incubation Period: A Summary. When a person becomes infected with the bacteria that cause plague (Yersinia pestis), the bacteria begin to multiply within the body. With bubonic plague, this occurs in the lymph system; with pneumonic plague, this occurs within the lungs.
A. Primary Pneumonic Plague Incubation period-typically 1-3 days (ranges up to 7 days) Symptoms-Patients exhibit acute and often fulminant onset of high fever, malaise, headache, myalgias and cough with production of sputum that is initially watery, before becoming bloody.
Infection of the lungs with the plague bacterium causes the pneumonic form of plague, a severe respiratory illness. The incubation period is one to six days for primary pneumonic plague. The first signs of illness are high fever, chills, myalgia, weakness and headache.