Re: best way to make bumpers black again. Nah, shoe polish will be no good. (I work at Clarks) ALTHOUGH you can get some 'extra shine' stuff from shoe shops or free from hotels which gives anything an extra shiny edge, so good for shows etc. Re: best way to make bumpers black again. Originally Posted by discodavies With a heatgun! gently heat the bumpers and you'll see them go back to black before your very eyes! honest! Not too much though they'll melt! Gotta agree there!
When it comes to finding the permanent solution to sun-faded car bumpers and black plastic trim, Forever Black Bumper, Trim Cleaner & Reconditioner Dye Kit is one of the car care industries amazing success stories. Forever Black is not a cosmetic dressing. It’s an easy-to-use permanent black bumper dye. It permanently colours black plastic, rubber and vinyl with the same polymers that the car manufacturers use. It is not a silicone dressing – silicone products will make plastic, vinyl and rubber appear to have regained their colour but the change is temporary. 
Re: best way to make bumpers black again. I was told to use washing power/detergent with warm water and scrub the surface violently until it was as faded as can be... Then build the shine back into the plastic using a hot air gun and autoglym back to balck to top it off. Re: best way to make bumpers black again. Originally Posted by discodavies With a heatgun! gently heat the bumpers and you'll see them go back to black before your very eyes! honest! Not too much though they'll melt! Gotta agree there!
From the hundreds of car back to black products available on the market there are only a handful that really provide more permanent, longer term solution. These actually bring long-lasting deep showroom blackness back to your faded bumpers and trim. Back To Black In 4 Simple Steps. To get the deep black colour that you desire, the steps you need to follow are really very simple and straight forward: 1) Simply remove all dirt and grease from your bumpers and trim. 2) Ensure the parts to be re-coloured are dry. 3) Using either a supplied applicator or a sponge applicator pad, evenly apply a coating of your chosen product across the surface or your bumper or other trim. 4) And that’s it
Use Black Again on smooth and textured surfaces, bumpers, trim, louvers, air vents, wiper arms, mud guards, tires, door handles, luggage and ski racks! Black Again is a clear, thick lotion that goes only where you put it. It won t run and leave residue where you don t want it. Simply pre-clean and dry the surface where Black Again is to be applied. Place product on a clean cloth or applicator pad and rub onto surface using a back and forth motion. Black Again is not a temporary fix. It provides a solution to the most common trim offenders: Oxidation, Sun Exposure, and Wax residue. From the moment you apply Black Again you will notice the difference: it cleans the area... permanently!
Re: best way to make bumpers black again. i ve used auto glym buper care. You have to give the bumpers a coating of black stuff with a sponge. Its really messy, but worth it later. Don`t learn from your mistakes.Live with them!!! Don`t learn from your mistakes. Re: best way to make bumpers black again. Originally Posted by discodavies With a heatgun! gently heat the bumpers and you'll see them go back to black before your very eyes! honest! Not too much though they'll melt! Gotta agree there!
So if your trim is looking a little faded hopefully the above will help you in your choice of products to help get the bumpers and other parts on your car back to black again. Tags: back to black, black bumpers, bumper black, car back to black. Back To Black In 4 Simple Steps. To get the deep black colour that you desire, the steps you need to follow are really very simple and straight forward: 1) Simply remove all dirt and grease from your bumpers and trim. 2) Ensure the parts to be re-coloured are dry. 3) Using either a supplied applicator or a sponge applicator pad, evenly apply a coating of your chosen product across the surface or your bumper or other trim. 4) And that’s it
Re: best way to make bumpers black again. ive used back to black and it returned to normal after half a day the car is 15 years old tho so it is pretty faded. Reply With Quote. 21-05-2004 20:10 #5. Re: best way to make bumpers black again. Originally Posted by discodavies With a heatgun! gently heat the bumpers and you'll see them go back to black before your very eyes! honest! Not too much though they'll melt! Gotta agree there!