Silchar in Assam offers you a unique experience blending all these and more. Silchar, the headquarters of Cachar district in Assam is the state’s second largest city. Sri Kancha Kanti Devi Temple. Situated 17 kms from Silchar, Sri Kancha Kanti Devi temple is a very famous temple, which is considered very powerful. Dedicated to a Goddess who is the combine of Kali and Durga, the temple was said to be built by a Kachari king on receiving a command in dream.
Silchar, the headquarters of Cachar district in Assam, is one of the must-visit places in the state. The reason for this is the large number of tourist attractions that it offers to the visitors. Right from natural beauty to architectural splendor, you will find the tourist places in Silchar to offer a large variety. Besides this, Silchar is an important educational center of the northeast section of India and has a host of educational and technical institutions like Silchar Medical College, Industrial Training Institute (ITI) and the NIT Silchar. So, on your next trip to Assam, do make sure to pay a visit to this city as well.
The airport is located at Kumbhirgram, about 22 km from Silchar and there are regular flights connecting Silchar with Kolkata, Guwahati & Tezpur. The airport is being modernised and is considered the fourth-busiest in north eastern India after Guwahati, Imphal and Agartala in terms of flight movements. 1 The Bhubaneshwar temple is about 50 km from Silchar and is on the top the Bhuvan hill. 2  This is a place of pilgrimage and during the festival of Shivaratri, thousand of Shivayats march towards the hilltop to worship Lord Shiva.
Silchar Airport (IATA: IXS, ICAO: VEKU) is located in Silchar in the state of Assam, India built by the British in 1944 and is also a Civil enclave airport as it is under the control of Indian Air Force. The airport is situated on the foothills of the Barail range. By road: Silchar Airport is about 24 kilometers away from the main city and it takes only a 45–50 minutes drive. Cabs and private cars are easily available at the city for the airport and the approximate charge is about 200 rupees per person.
03842. Silchar is the headquarters of the Cachar district of Assam and is the second largest town of the state. Nestled on the banks of the Barak River on the southern zone of the state, the town has an average elevation of about 72 feet and is renowned for its scenic beauty and natural splendor. Besides this, Silchar is an important educational center of the northeast section of India and has a host of educational and technical institutions like Silchar Medical College, Industrial Training Institute (ITI) and the NIT Silchar. So, on your next trip to Assam, do make sure to pay a visit to this city as well.
Silchar (/ˈsɪlˌʧə/ or /ˈʃɪlˌʧə/) (Bengali: শিলচর Shilchor) shilchôr is the headquarters Of cachar district in the state Of assam In. India it is 343 (kilometres 213) mi south east Of. guwahati 1 The Bhubaneshwar temple is about 50 km from Silchar and is on the top the Bhuvan hill. 2  This is a place of pilgrimage and during the festival of Shivaratri, thousand of Shivayats march towards the hilltop to worship Lord Shiva.
Silchar is situated by the banks of the Barak River in what is popularly known as Barak Valley. 1 The Bhubaneshwar temple is about 50 km from Silchar and is on the top the Bhuvan hill. 2  This is a place of pilgrimage and during the festival of Shivaratri, thousand of Shivayats march towards the hilltop to worship Lord Shiva.
By rail: Silchar Railway Station is located at a distance of 26 kilometres from Silchar airport by road. It is only about 50–55 minutes drive from the Airport till the railway station through Kumbhirgram Airport Road. Taxis and cabs are readily available outside the station for the airport and vice versa. By road: Silchar Airport is about 24 kilometers away from the main city and it takes only a 45–50 minutes drive. Cabs and private cars are easily available at the city for the airport and the approximate charge is about 200 rupees per person.
Silchar (/ˈsɪlˌʧə/ or /ˈʃɪlˌʧə/) (Bengali: শিলচর Shilchor) shilchôr is the headquarters Of cachar district in the state Of assam In. India it is 343 (kilometres 213) mi south east Of. Guwahati it is the-second largest city of the state in terms of population and municipal. area 1 The Bhubaneshwar temple is about 50 km from Silchar and is on the top the Bhuvan hill. 2  This is a place of pilgrimage and during the festival of Shivaratri, thousand of Shivayats march towards the hilltop to worship Lord Shiva.
detailed map of Silchar and near places. Welcome to the Silchar google satellite map! This place is situated in Cachar, Assam, India, its geographical coordinates are 24° 49' 0 North, 92° 48' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Silchar. See Silchar photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Silchar in India. Silchar hotels map is available on the target page linked above. Luxury hotels (including 5 star hotels and 4 star hotels) and cheap Silchar hotels (with best discount rates and up-to-date hotel deals) are both available in separate lists. Always bear in mind that with Maplandia.com and Booking.com the best price is guaranteed!