Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution. Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation
Sedimentary rock is one of the three main rock groups (along with igneous and metamorphic rocks) and is formed in three main ways—by the deposition of the weathered remains of other rocks (known as clastic sedimentary rocks); by the deposition of the results of biogenic activity; and by precipitation from solution. Sedimentary rocks are formed from overburden pressure as particles of sediment are deposited out of air, ice, or water flows carrying the particles in suspension.
Shale is a fine-grained sedimentary rock that forms from the compaction of silt and clay-size mineral particles that we commonly call mud. This composition places shale in a category of sedimentary rocks known as mudstones. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of sedimentary is something related to particles which are carried along by liquid, sometimes combining and compressing into rock. Rock that is formed out of dregs of liquid left behind on the surface of land is an example ofsedimentary rock
They're one of the three types of rocks (the other two being igneous and metamorphic), and are the rocks formed by processes acting on the earth's surface. Sediment refers to particles, or grains, of weathered rock or mineral debris. Lesson Summary. Sedimentary rocks are made of rock or mineral fragments deposited in layers by water, wind or ice at the earth's surface. Individual grains, or clasts, are bound together by compaction or cementation, or both. Clastic rocks are made from weathered rock
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution. Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation
Noun. (plural sedimentary rocks). ( 1 geology) one of the major groups of rock that makes up the crust of the Earth; formed by the deposition of either the weathered remains of other rocks, the results of biological activity, or precipitation from solution. 2  Link/Cite. 1 (