Humus coats the soil particles, giving them a dark color. Usually, the darker the color, the more organic matter the soil contains, and the more fertile and productive is the soil.Dark colors are typical of A horizons (the surface layer of soil). See Plates 2 and 8, pp. 50­A and 50­B. The organic matter content, climate, soil drainage, and mineralogy affect soil color. Most soil minerals are naturally white or light gray. Color is strongly influenced by humus and iron compounds. They change the outer color of the soil much like a coat of paint.
Generally speaking, the darker a soil is, the more nutrient rich it is. The darker color often indicates an increase in decomposed organic matter known as humus. Gray soils often indicate poor drainage, while red soils can indicate very poor soils. These general rules about soil colors can, however, be misleading. Soil Color. The most obvious property when looking at soil is its color. The color of soil can tell scientists a lot about it. Geologist officially recognize over 170 different soil colors. Most of these are shades of black, brown, red, gray, and white.
Humus is the stabilized particles of highly decomposed organic matter. Deep brown in color, humus forms over several years and provides nutrients and soil structure for plant growth. Humus should comprise about 50 percent of garden soil for optimal growth. Soils high in humus and decomposing organic matter are dark brown to black. Humus is dark in color because it has a high mineral content; it can also absorb and drain water. The top two layers of soil are usually highest in organic matter and are darker than lower levels
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Humus soil is soil made up of decayed organic material. Popularly, it refers to soil that is light in texture, dark brown or black in color, and sweet-smelling. It is considered the richest soil and is usually described as the ideal soil type. Most soils are a combination of the soil types, and tend have either more clay or more sand, with varying amounts of humus. Colloquially, humus can refer to any organic soil matter. It is often confused with compost, since the two can look alike. Finished compost should bear little to no resemblance to the original material that went into it and, like humus, compost has a light texture, dark color, and sweet-scent.
Humus has a characteristic black or dark brown color and is organic due to an accumulation of organic carbon. Soil scientists use the capital letters O, A, B, C, and E to identify the master horizons, and lowercase letters for distinctions of these horizons. Humus significantly influences the bulk density of soil and contributes to moisture and nutrient retention. Soil formation begins with the weathering of humus. In agriculture, humus is sometimes also used to describe mature, or natural compost extracted from a forest or other spontaneous source for use to amend soil.
The Color of Soil. The first impression we have when looking at bare earth or soil is of color. Bright colors especially, catch our eye. Geographers are familiar with Red Desert soils in California, Arizona, and Nevada (Arizona State Soil); and Gray Desert soils in Idaho, Utah, and Nevada (Nevada State Soil). As rocks containing iron or manganese weather, the elements oxidize. Iron forms small crystals with a yellow or red color, organic matter decomposes into black humus, and manganese forms black mineral deposits. These pigments paint the soil (Michigan
Color development and distribution of color within a soil profile are part of weathering. As rocks containing iron or manganese weather, the elements oxidize. Iron forms small crystals with a yellow or red color, organic matter decomposes into black humus, and manganese forms black mineral deposits. These pigments paint the soil (Michigan State Soil).
The principle component of humus is carbon. The color ranges from a light brown to a dark brownish-black. In order to build humus levels in soil the proper ratio of water, air, residue, bacteria, protozoa, algae, yeasts and fungi are needed. 
The first impression we have when looking at bare earth or soil is of color. Bright colors especially, catch our eye. Geographers are familiar with Red Desert soils in California, Arizona, and Nevada (Arizona State Soil); and Gray Desert soils in Idaho, Utah, and Nevada (Nevada State Soil). Red, brown, yellow, yellowish-red, grayish-brown, and pale red are all good descriptive colors of soil, but not very exact. Just as paint stores have pages of color chips, soil scientists use a book of color chips that follow the Munsell System of Color Notation (www.munsell.com).