The gluteus maximus is the largest of the gluteal muscles. It is also the most the most superficial, producing the shape of the buttocks. 1  Attachments: Originates from the gluteal (posterior) surface of the ilium, sacrum and coccyx.
The muscles in this region move the lower limb at the hip joint. The muscles of the gluteal region can be broadly divided into two groups: 1  Superficial abductors and extenders – A group of large muscles that abduct and extend the femur.
It passes anterolaterally between the gluteus medius and minimus and supplies both of those muscles as well as the tensor fasciae latae. The inferior gluteal nerve (L5, S1,2) (figs. 14-2 and 14-3) traverses the greater sciatic foramen just inferior to the piriformis muscle and supplies the gluteus maximus.
The superficial muscles in the gluteal region consist of the three glutei and the tensor fascia lata. They act mainly act to abduct and extend the lower limb at the hip joint.
Okay, so this is a tutorial on the muscles of the gluteal region and the muscles of the thigh. I’m going to cover quite a lot of muscles here, but I’m not going to go to a huge amount of detail because I’ve done that in some other individual tutorials.
The Gluteus maximus (fig. 648), the largest and most superficial muscle in the gluteal region, is a broad and thick fleshy mass of a quadrilateral shape, and forms the prominence of the buttock.
The gluteal group of muscles consists of 3 muscles: Gluteus Maximus, Gluteus Medius and Gluteus Minimus. Gluteus is Greek for rump. Maximus is the largest of the muscles and Minimus the smallest. The role of the Gluteus maximus is different from the medius and minimus muscles because of their attachment points.
The gluteal region is this region here between the iliac crest and the gluteal fold, so the fold of the buttock. It’s helpful to think of the gluteal region in terms of deep and superficial muscles. The deep muscles are small, little muscles and are mainly lateral rotators of the hip.