Richard Milhous Nixon (January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994) was the 37th President of the United States, serving from 1969 to 1974 when he became the only U.S. president to resign the office. 
Confidence votes 52.7K. Richard Nixon was NOT impeached. He resigned before the House had an opportunity to file articles of impeachment against him, to avoid the inevitable. Only two presidents have been impeached, that is, formal charges brought them: Andrew Johnson and William J. Clinton. Most likely, Nixon would have been impeached, convicted, and removed from office if he hadn't resigned first. The resignation allowed him to avoid giving testimony before Congress and allowed his successor, President Gerald Ford, to issue a pardon so Nixon didn't face criminal charges.
Richard Nixon 37th U.S. President About President Nixon: He served as vice president under Republican President Dwight D. Eisenhower from 1953-61. Nixon ran unsuccessfully for the presidency in 1960, losing by a very close margin to John F. Kennedy. In 1962, Nixon ran unsuccessfully for Governor of California.
Why Was Richard Nixon Impeached. Richard Milhous Nixon was the 37th president of the United States of America. He was born in Yorba Linda, California and practiced Law at La Habra. He joined the United States navy and was able to become a Lieutenant Commander in World War II
President Ford did not pardon President Nixon in an impeachment. President Nixon was never impeached because he resigned before the House could vote on articles of impeachment … . The House Judiciary Committee recommended President Richard Nixon  be impeached in February of 1974. President Nixon resigned before  the Articles of Impeachment were voted … on.
On this day in 1974, the House Judiciary Committee recommends that America’s 37th president, Richard M. Nixon, be impeached and removed from office. The impeachment proceedings resulted from a series of political scandals involving the Nixon administration that came to be collectively known as Watergate. A+E Networks. On this day in 1974, the House of Representatives charges President Richard M. Nixon with the first of three articles of impeachment for obstruction of justice after he refused to release White House tape recordings that contained crucial information regarding the Watergate scandal.
On this day in 1974, the House Judiciary Committee recommends that America’s 37th president, Richard M. Nixon, be impeached and removed from office. The impeachment proceedings resulted from a series of political scandals involving the Nixon administration that came to be collectively known as Watergate. 
President Nixon was never impeached. Nixon resigned on August 9, 1974, after the US Supreme Court decided he could not withhold taped conversations about the Watergate break … -in under the protection of Executive Privilege. Most likely, Nixon would have been impeached, convicted, and removed from office if he hadn't resigned first. The resignation allowed him to avoid giving testimony before Congress and allowed his successor, President Gerald Ford, to issue a pardon so Nixon didn't face criminal charges.
Richard Nixon was elected the 37th President of the United States (1969-1974) after previously serving as a U.S. Representative and a U.S. Senator from California. 