A lymph node is an oval-shaped organ of the lymphatic system, distributed widely throughout the body including the armpit and stomach and linked by lymphatic vessels. Lymph nodes are major sites of B, T, and other immune cells. Lymph nodes are bean or oval shaped and range in size from a few millimeters to about 1–2 cm long. Each lymph node is surrounded by a fibrous capsule, and inside the lymph node the fibrous capsule extends to form trabeculae. The substance of the lymph node is divided into the outer cortex and the inner medulla.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. In some areas of the body the enlarged lymph nodes are palpable, while others are to deep to feel and can be seen on CT scan or MRI.”. Inflammatory or autoimmune conditions occur when a person's immune system is active, and can result in enlargement of lymph nodes. This can happen in lupus, according to Hamrick.
The spleen is a major cluster of lymph nodes that may become enlarged in lymph node disorders. The lymphatic system also includes the lymphoid tissue through which the nodes and vessels of the lymphatic system circulate a clear fluid (lymph) throughout the body. A lymph node disorder is a condition in which the lymph nodes, an important part of the immune system, become enlarged in response to an underlying disease process.
Secondary cancer in the lymph nodes. Secondary cancer in the lymph nodes is when cancer cells have spread to the lymph nodes from a cancer that began elsewhere in the body. We have separate information about the different types of lymphomas | . We hope this information answers your questions. It can start there as a primary cancer, or it can spread into the lymph nodes from a primary cancer elsewhere in the body. Cancer that starts in the lymph nodes is called lymphoma. If cancer spreads into the lymph nodes from another part of the body, this is known as secondary or metastatic cancer.
Cancer in the lymph nodes Back to top. Cancer can develop in the lymph nodes in two ways. It can start there as a primary cancer, or it can spread into the lymph nodes from a primary cancer elsewhere in the body. Cancer that starts in the lymph nodes is called lymphoma. If cancer spreads into the lymph nodes from another part of the body, this is known as secondary or metastatic cancer.
Best Answer: A better way to say this is reactive lymph nodes. These nodes are enlarged and often tender. They are supposed to react/enlarge in response to infections or inflammatory processes in the region. 
What the lymphatic system is. The lymphatic system is a system of thin tubes and lymph nodes that run throughout the body. These tubes are called lymph vessels or lymphatic vessels. The lymph system is an important part of our immune system. It plays a role in fighting bacteria and other infections and destroying old or abnormal cells, such as cancer cells. From the lymph glands, the lymph moves into larger lymphatic vessels that join up. These eventually reach a very large lymph vessel at the base of the neck called the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct then empties the lymph back into the blood circulation.
To understand what a reactive lymph node is, think of the swollen glands you get in your neck when you have a cold or sore throat. Those are reactive lymph nodes. They have reacted to the infection by becoming enlarged, and under the microscope they have an increased number of inflammatory cells. 
The lymphatic system. The diagram shows the lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the other organs that make up the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is similar to the blood circulation. The lymph vessels branch through all parts of the body like the arteries and veins that carry blood. From the lymph glands, the lymph moves into larger lymphatic vessels that join up. These eventually reach a very large lymph vessel at the base of the neck called the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct then empties the lymph back in