Long Term Goals Example: one of your long-term goals is saving for your daughter’s college education, which is six years away. However, more recently your daughter decided she wants to attend a private high school, resulting in you tapping into your higher education savings.
Short Term vs. Long-Term Goals. When setting goals, you want to set both short-term and long-term goals. A short-term goal is a goal that is designed to be completed in a short period of time. Typically, short-term goals span a few days or a few weeks and never last longer than six months. Long-term goals span longer periods of time and can take six months or longer to complete.
There is a relationship between long-term goals and short-term goals. Often, achieving a long-term goal requires reach-ing a set of short-term goals.For example, in order to buy a $960 mountain bike in fouryears, Miranda needs to save $240 in each of the next fouryears, or $20 each month.
Revenue Goals. If your long-term revenue goal is to double revenue by the end of the current fiscal year, another example of a supporting short-term goal is to contract an advertising consultant for one month to help you analyze and capitalize on your customer's buying trends.
An example of a short-term goal is to increase your advertising budget each month for the next three months. An example of a long-term business goal that the short-term goal helps achieve is to double business revenue by the end of the fiscal year.
These are the sub-goals that you will have to accomplish in order to achieve your long-term goal. If your one year goal is a certain dollar level of profitability, your objectives could be in the areas of sales, marketing, distribution, manufacturing, cost control, staff development, technology and so on.
Long-Term Goals Example: with as little as $50 from each paycheck ($100 a month or $1,200 a year), you have contributed $48,000 after 40 years. Assuming a seven percent annualized rate of return, you would have more than $260,000. Use our Time Value Calculator to see how the time value of money works.