Khoa or khoya is a dairy product widely used in South Asian cuisine of India, Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan. It is also known as khuwa in Nepali and khuaa (ଖୁଆ) in Odia. Different types of khoya are used for different preparations. 1  Batti, meaning rock, has 20% moisture by weight and is the hardest of the three types; it can be grated like cheese. 2  Chikna (slippery or squishy) khoya has 50% moisture. 3  Daanedaar is a grainy variety. 4  Pindi, dry khoya, is used for preparing barfi and peda. 5  Dhap, a less dried ...
step by step method on how to make khoya or mawa: 1. pour milk in a large thick bottomed pan and place the pan on the stove top. 2. bring milk to gentle boil first on a low to medium flame. 3. then lower the flame and simmer the milk. stir at intervals whilst the milk is simmering. 14. collect the khoya or mawa in a bowl. with a spatula, scrape the milk solids from the sides and add these to the bowl. cover the bowl and let the khoya cool at room temperature. then you can refrigerate it. 15. add this homemade khoya or mawa as required while making various indian sweets or indian curries.
Best Answer: One meaning is lost second is a material. Read. Khoa (also khoya) is a milk food widely used in the Indian cuisine, made of either dried whole milk or milk thickened by heating in an open iron pan. Read more: http://www.kosmix.com/topic/Khoya#ixzz1G..
This is the easy way to preapre khoya/mawa at home by using only 2 ingredients i.e. Ghee and Ricotta Cheese. Khawa is used in most of the Indian sweets. So enjoy this great recipe from http://madhurasrecipe.com. 1  People & Blogs. 
Recipe for this Khoya/Mawa is just a one liner – ‘Heat milk, stirring often until they become thick’. But you guys know that I do not know to write any recipe crisply. I add details after details even for the simplest of recipes and make them sound like a ‘Juggernaut’. How to make Milk Khoya (Mawa) – with Step by Step pictures. [Click each image to view an enlarge picture]. Step 1. Take the 5 cups of milk in a heavy bottomed wide mouthed vessel. In Medium-High heat bring it to boil (Takes 10 minutes) [Stay near the stove and be watchful if you work with medium-high heat.
1 You might find something called Mawa powder in indian grocery stores. 2  However this is nothing but milk powder packaged with this name. 3  Take 2 cups of any dry milk powder or how much u want just make hard dough with peak milk or any drinking milk. 4  wrap any nylon or cloth freez for one hr. 1 In a bowl take 3 cups of full cream milk powder and 300ml of thickened cream and can of condence milk keep in microwave on high for 4 min then stir it then again keep it for 4 min stir it and your khoya is ready you can add it in halwa or make burfi or pedha.
Khoya or mawa is basically dried milk used for making most sweet dishes. You can get khoya from stores if you lived in India. Outside India you are out of luck. But then you don't just give up on your favorite sweets, certainly not if you know you ways around the kitchen. 1 In a bowl take 3 cups of full cream milk powder and 300ml of thickened cream and can of condence milk keep in microwave on high for 4 min then stir it then again keep it for 4 min stir it and your khoya is ready you can add it in halwa or make burfi or pedha.