Types of carbohydrates. There are three main types of carbohydrates: 1  Sugar. 2  Sugar is the simplest form of carbohydrates. 3  Sugar occurs naturally in some foods, including fruits, vegetables, milk and milk products. 4  Sugars include fruit sugar (fructose), table sugar (sucrose) and milk sugar (lactose). 5  Starch. 
Non-starchy vegetables have 5 grams of carbohydrates or less, per serving. A serving of non-starchy vegetables is 1 cup raw or one-half cup cooked vegetables. Some examples of non-starchy vegetables are spinach, salad greens, tomatoes, cucumbers, peppers and eggplant. Carbohydrates are an essential nutrient for your body. During digestion, they break down into glucose, or blood sugar, which is the primary source of fuel for all cells. Nearly all of the foods you eat contain carbohydrates. Meat, eggs and some types of seafood are the only foods that do not have carbs
Starch. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice. ( 4 The majority of grain products in the US are made from wheat flour. 
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates. Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates
Complex carbs: Carbs can be simple (containing 1 or 2 sugars) or complex (containing 3 or more sugars). Simple carbs are like table sugar, syrups, fruits like bananas, mangos, etc. Complex carbs are like legumes, starchy vegetables like yams, whole grains like brown rice, quinoa, whole grain breads & other cereals.
Beans and Dairy. You can find carbohydrates in both beans and dairy products. Dairy products such as milk and yogurt contain simple carbohydrates, and beans contain complex carbohydrates. One cup of low-fat yogurt has 16 g of carbohydrates, and 1 cup of skim milk has 12 g. Choose lower-calorie dairy. A white or sweet baked potato has 30 g of carbohydrates, 1/2 cup of corn has 17 g and 1/2 cup of peas contains 7 g, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Eat a baked potato with your dinner, and include peas and corn in your diet on occasion.
Understanding Carbohydrates. How much and what type of carbohydrate foods are important for managing diabetes. The balance between how much insulin is in your body and the carbohydrate you eat makes a difference in your blood glucose levels. 
1. Potatoes: Potatoes also contain good amounts of carbohydrates in the form of starch. 1 cup serving of boiled potatoes contains 31 grams of carbohydrates and a cup of mashed potatoes include 36 grams of carbs. Hash browns have the highest amount of carbohydrates with 35% while french fries contain 27% of carbs. Each gram of starch contains 4 calories. Sugars are simple carbohydrates that can be easily digested by the body. Fibers do not provide any calories because our bodies do not break fiber during digestion. Foods which contain a high level of sugar are candies, jellies, soda, cake and fruits.
Grains. Grains are an important source of carbohydrates, as they contain healthy fiber. Whole grains have undergone little processing, making these grains a low-glycemic food. According to the Harvard School of Public Health, carbohydrates with a low-glycemic index can help control blood sugar. A white or sweet baked potato has 30 g of carbohydrates, 1/2 cup of corn has 17 g and 1/2 cup of peas contains 7 g, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Eat a baked potato with your dinner, and include peas and corn in your diet on occasion.