Chamonix.net provides detailed info for all visitor questions: how to get to Chamonix, accommodation providers, restaurants, things to do, events, ski lifts. There is a multitude of summer activities on offer in Chamonix. Enroll in a paragliding school or take a tandem flight. Try the thrill of white water rafting or canyoning.
Chamonix Summer Activities. There is a multitude of summer activities on offer in Chamonix. Enroll in a paragliding school or take a tandem flight. Try the thrill of white water rafting or canyoning. Chamonix and the neighbouring region are meccas of climbing, mountaineering and trail running. On a rainy day, pay a visit to the impressive indoor climbing wall in Les Houches or the Chamonix Sports Center
The south side was in France, assigned to the commune of Saint-Gervais-les-Bains sharing the summit with its neighbor Chamonix. The town of Chamonix is served by French Route Nationale 205 (RN 205), nicknamed the Route blanche, or white route, due to its snowiness. This is an extension of French autoroute 40 (A40), similarly nicknamed the autoroute blanche, which ends at Le Fayet, a village in the commune of Saint-Gervais-les-Bains.
Situated near the massive peaks of the Aiguilles Rouges and most notably the Aiguille du Midi, Chamonix is one of the oldest ski resorts in France and is known as the gateway to the European Cascades.. The north side of the summit of Mont Blanc, and therefore the summit itself are part of the village of Chamonix. The town of Chamonix is served by French Route Nationale 205 (RN 205), nicknamed the Route blanche, or white route, due to its snowiness. This is an extension of French autoroute 40 (A40), similarly nicknamed the autoroute blanche, which ends at Le Fayet, a village in the commune of Saint-Gervais-les-Bains.
Chamonix-Mont-Blanc, more commonly known simply as Chamonix (formerly also spelled Chamounix), is a commune in the Haute-Savoie departement département in The-Rhone rhône alpes region-in South. Eastern france it was the site of The First winter olympics. in 1924 The town of Chamonix is served by French Route Nationale 205 (RN 205), nicknamed the Route blanche, or white route, due to its snowiness. This is an extension of French autoroute 40 (A40), similarly nicknamed the autoroute blanche, which ends at Le Fayet, a village in the commune of Saint-Gervais-les-Bains.
1 Hotel in Chamonix-Les Aiglons**** Resort & Spa is a 4-star hotel located in Chamonix, France with 107 comfortable and spacious rooms all granted with a wonderful view over the Mont Blanc. 2  Hotel with Spa, pool, and restaurant. 3  Organization of seminars at the Hotel les Aiglons**** Chamonix Mont-Blanc. 4  €90. For Advanced Skiers: [edit]. Chamonix has a reputation for adrenalin fueled skiing and for expert skiers the challenging long steep descent from the top of Les Grands Montets, from 3275m to 2000m, is world-class skiing.
Legendary Chamonix. Cham' is a destination popular the world over. In the streets of this high-mountain town you'll hear languages from every corner of the globe. But the people who come to this 'summit meeting' share the same way of thinking, the same love for mountaineering, its legends and its ethics. Chamonix valley official website © copyright 2015: Office de Tourisme de la vallee vallée De-Chamonix-Mont-Blanc tous droits RESERVES RéSERVéS OFFICES. de tourisme
The 1924 Winter Olympics, officially known as the I Olympic Winter Games (French: Les Iers Jeux olympiques d'hiver), were a winter multi-sport event which was held in 1924 in Chamonix, France. Originally called Semaine Internationale des Sports d'Hiver (International Winter Sports Week) and held in association with the 1924 Summer Olympics, the sports competitions were held at the foot of Mont Blanc in Chamonix, and Haute-Savoie, France between January 25 and February 5, 1924.