In this section I will explain how to remove/strip Formica plastic laminate from an existing cabinet or counter top. If you are planning to save the piece of laminate that you are trying to take off of the cabinet or counter, please remain patient throughout the process. 
If you have an undermount sink, remove the screws connecting the sink to the countertops and then pull the sink out of the opening. If the sink is a drop-in style, use a pry bar to gently pry the sink away from the countertop. Remove the Backsplash. Many laminate countertops come with an integral backsplash. Once you've cut away any caulk connecting the backsplash to the wall, slip a pry bar between the backsplash and the top of the countertop. Pry it away carefully to avoid damaging the drywall
Be careful not to damage a sink or cooktop that you plan to re-install in your new countertop. 1  Undermount-style sink: If the sink is an undermount type, unfasten the screws holding it to the countertop. 2  Drop-in fixture: Use a chisel or putty knife to pry the sink away from the countertop. Use a pry bar to take off this type of construction. 1  Formica or laminate countertop: Most countertops are bracketed to the base cabinets. 2  Tile countertop: Remove the tile from the surface. 3  Granite countertop: Most natural-stone countertops are heavy, and therefore, difficult to remove.
Use a pry bar to take off this type of construction. 1  Formica or laminate countertop: Most countertops are bracketed to the base cabinets. 2  Remove the retaining screws inside the brackets and set them aside. 3  If the counter is attached to the base cabinet with nails or an adhesive, use a pry bar to remove it. Use a pry bar to take off this type of construction. 1  Formica or laminate countertop: Most countertops are bracketed to the base cabinets. 2  Tile countertop: Remove the tile from the surface. 3  Granite countertop: Most natural-stone countertops are heavy, and therefore, difficult to remove.
Pull out the countertop fixtures. Be careful not to damage a sink or cooktop that you plan to re-install in your new countertop. 1  Undermount-style sink: If the sink is an undermount type, unfasten the screws holding it to the countertop. 2  The sink should come out easily once it is freed from the counter. Use a pry bar to take off this type of construction. 1  Formica or laminate countertop: Most countertops are bracketed to the base cabinets. 2  Tile countertop: Remove the tile from the surface. 3  Granite countertop: Most natural-stone countertops are heavy, and therefore, difficult to remove.
Tips. 1  Be careful when removing your old countertop so you don't damage adjacent cabinets or the backsplash. 2  Wear work gloves and protective eyewear when doing any renovation project. 3  Use a reciprocating saw on wood-backed countertops that are difficult to remove. Use a pry bar to take off this type of construction. 1  Formica or laminate countertop: Most countertops are bracketed to the base cabinets. 2  Tile countertop: Remove the tile from the surface. 3  Granite countertop: Most natural-stone countertops are heavy, and therefore, difficult to remove.
1. Shut off the water to the sink and unhook the plumbing fixtures. Remove the sink and the faucet. There are metal clips under the sink. Use a screwdriver to unscrew and remove them. Slide a putty knife under the top edge of the sink around the perimeter to cut the plumber's putty. Lift out the sink. 1 Just remove the nails before cutting on it. 2  Leave the fascia on it. 3  It's rare, but some countertops are screwed on. 4  If this is the case, use a cordless screwgun to remove the screws from the underside of the countertop and lift the counterop off in one piece.
Step 2 – Remove the Sink. In order to remove the countertop, you will need to remove faucet and sprayer from your sink. Then, disconnect the sink and remove it. You will need to use a utility knife to cut around the caulking in the sink before it is removed. Do this carefully so as to avoid scratching or damaging your sink. Of course, when removing your countertop, you will want to have a new countertop on hand to replace it. Keep in mind that, once it is removed you will have no working countertop space in your kitchen until your new top is installed. Use a helper when doing this project to make the project go more smoothly.