Lakshmi’s stepfather forces her to get a job in the city. Suddenly a world of possibility fills Lakshmi’s mind. She dreams of a new city life full of its extravagances. When Lakshmi is sold to the “Happiness House”, her dream quickly fades away. You wait for someone to explain what’s going on ‘till a woman comes into the room with a man, a customer. In Sold Patricia McCormick tells the story of how this happened to thirteen-year-old Lakshmi, a poor merchant girl born on a remote hilltop in Nepal. Ama, Lakshmi’s mother, is married to a terrible gambler after her first husband, Lakshmi’s father, died
But when Lakshmi leaves, she is not taken to the big city to work as a maid What a powerful, haunting story! Written in free verse from the perspective of a 13 year old Nepalese girl, who was sold from her mountain home to earn a living as a maid in the big city. In fact, I remember finally putting the book down in the dead of night.The book takes place in the Himalayan mountains. A young girl by the name of Lakshmi is s Originally I didn’t want to read Sold by Patricia McCormick.
After bad weather and her stepfather's carelessness ruin the family's finances, Lakshmi believes that she, too, can go to the city as a maid. But when her stepfather accepts 800 rupees from a woman who promises to take Lakshmi to the city to find work, Lakshmi has no idea of the appalling future that awaits her. In her previous novels, Patricia McCormick has proven her adeptness at the so-called young adult problem novel, tackling the subjects of self-mutilation (CUT) and drug abuse (MY BROTHER'S KEEPER) with a sensitivity and understanding of both her subjects and her readers.
This was amazing book with a heartbreaking story. Sold, truly puts life into perspective when placed in the shoes of a 13 year old girl sold into sexual slavery by her own family. Patricia McCormick tells a sad tale of Lakshmi, a girl from the mountains of Nepal. In fact, I remember finally putting the book down in the dead of night.The book takes place in the Himalayan mountains. A young girl by the name of Lakshmi is s Originally I didn’t want to read Sold by Patricia McCormick.
Books. books.google.com-Lakshmi is a thirteen-year-old girl who lives with her family in a small hut on a mountain in Nepal. Though she is desperately poor, her life is full of simple pleasures, like playing hopscotch with her best friend from school, and having her mother brush her hair by the light of an oil lamp. To research Sold, Patricia McCormick traveled to India and Nepal, where she interviewed the women of Calcutta's red-light district and girls who have been rescued from the sex trade.
Lakshmi is sold by her stepfather to work as a maid with a rich woman in the city. That woman is a broker who sells her to a madam. She goes planning to work hard and get money for a new roof for her family. In fact, I remember finally putting the book down in the dead of night.The book takes place in the Himalayan mountains. A young girl by the name of Lakshmi is s Originally I didn’t want to read Sold by Patricia McCormick.
1 Lakshmi, thirteen-year-old farm girl in danger, is the narrator and protagonist of the novel Sold. 2  When the monsoons come and her family’s crops are destroyed, she is sold into sex slavery by her stepfather. The novel is written in a series of short, vignette-style chapters, from the point of view of the main character. The 2014 movie Sold by Oscar-winning director Jeffrey D. Brown is based on the same novel.
Field was born in 1941 in New York City to a Greek father and an Armenian mother, who emigrated from Plomari, Lesbos, Greece. She was raised in Astoria, Queens, and has claimed credit for inventing the modern legging for women's fashion in the 1970s. She is the owner of the eponymous boutique Patricia Field. 
Sold is a novel by Patricia McCormick, published in 2006. It tells the story of a girl from Nepal named Lakshmi, who is sold into sexual slavery in India. The novel is written in a series of short, vignette-style chapters, from the point of view of the main character. The 2014 movie Sold by Oscar-winning director Jeffrey D. Brown is based on the same novel.