In January 2010, with the Traditional IRA now worth $7000, you decide that a Roth IRA would be better. If you convert the Traditional IRA to a Roth, you would get a $1250 tax reduction for 2009 but owe $1750 for 2010. If you recharacterize the 2009 contribution as a Roth contribution, you save $500 in taxes. Example: You contributed $5000 to a Roth IRA in April 2007 even though you were eligible for a deductible IRA. In October 2008, your Roth has lost 40% of its value. If you recharacterized a deductible IRA contribution as a Roth IRA contribution, you will owe extra tax. If you recharacterized a non-deductible IRA to a Roth IRA or vice versa, your tax owed will not change, but you still need to amend the return to correct your IRS Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs.
Current as of November 16, 2013. Overview of how to undo a Roth IRA mistake by recharacterizing a contribution or conversion. You might call it the “oops” rule. You can switch your IRA contribution from one type of IRA to another, or undo a conversion. Subject to some restrictions, you can go from Roth to traditional or from traditional to Roth.
One of the main reasons that people choose to recharacterize a Roth IRA back into a Traditional IRA is because their investments have suffered serious losses since their conversion. For example, if you have a Traditional IRA with a balance of $100,000 that you converted into a Roth IRA, you owe taxes on that conversion. If you recharacterize your investment back into a Traditional IRA, you would not owe the tax bill. It can be quite rewarding converting a Traditional IRA into a Roth IRA. The amount of future tax savings can be quite substantial, but there are some times when investors may have buyer’s remorse with their conversion.
If you made a contribution to a Roth IRA and later recharacterized it or made a Roth conversion, you can review the following IRS forms and publications, which provide guidance on how to report those transactions on your income tax return: 1  IRS Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs, and the related instructions. 
IRA Contribution. An individual may choose to recharacterize an IRA contribution to change the initial designation. For instance, an individual who makes a Traditional IRA contribution may recharacterize the contribution to a Roth IRA, thereby changing the contribution to a Roth IRA contribution, or vice versa. To treat the $400 as a Roth IRA contribution, Jack must recharacterize the amount to his Roth IRA and must include any earnings or subtract any loss on the $400. The value of Jack\'s Traditional IRA when he recharacterizes the $400 in April is $7,600
The value of your traditional IRA on that date is $4,400. You decide to recharacterize $3,000 of the traditional IRA contribution as a Roth IRA contribution, and have $3,300 ($3,000 contribution plus $300 related earnings) transferred from your traditional IRA to a Roth IRA in a trustee-to-trustee transfer. You deduct the $1,000 traditional IRA contribution on Form 1040. 
To recharacterize a conversion or contribution, you must move the assets from the IRA that first received the contribution (or conversion) to the IRA in which you want the assets to be maintained. Some financial institutions will process the recharacterization by simply changing the IRA from one type to another. To treat the $400 as a Roth IRA contribution, Jack must recharacterize the amount to his Roth IRA and must include any earnings or subtract any loss on the $400. The value of Jack\'s Traditional IRA when he recharacterizes the $400 in April is $7,600
Yes, if you recharacterize all or part of a rollover or conversion to a Roth IRA, you cannot reconvert the amount recharacterized to the same or another Roth IRA until the later of: 1  30 days after the recharacterization, or. 2  the year following the year of the rollover or conversion. You generally can recharacterize your rollover or conversion by October 15 of the following year, regardless of whether you requested an extension to file your tax return. For example, for your conversion to a Roth IRA in 2013, you have until October 15, 2014, to recharacterize.