A radiologist is a physician who specializes in using medical imaging techniques, such as X-ray and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to diagnose and treat diseases or injuries. Education is extensive and includes completion of a bachelor's degree, medical school and a residency. Medical licensure is required.
Radiologists physicians are usually board certified by the American Board of Radiology (for a doctor of medicine) or the American Osteopathic Board of Radiology (for an osteopathic doctor); an indication of a high level of training, and demonstrated excellence in the field.
Once in medical school, all of the classes and rotations are the same for everyone until the fourth year, when elective rotations can be taken. You would need to apply to radiology residency programs during that year of medical school and then complete a radiology residency (tpyically 4-5 years). Hope this helps! the grades you need for being a radiology is a c or above in science and other subject.
After you complete a one-year internship, you will need to complete a 4 year residency in diagnostic radiology. During the course of your residency, you will have to sit for several exams conducted by the American Board of Radiology. This includes a written and an oral board exam and a physics exam.
However, interventional radiologists may perform some therapeutic, image-guided procedures to aid in the treatment of cardiovascular disease, and some other health problems. Education and Training Required to Be a Radiologist: Radiologists must complete the requirements to become a medical doctor, or physician. This requires: 1  4 years of undergraduate (Bachelor’s degree). 2  4 years of medical school (Medical degree). 3  4 years of residency training. 4  1 year of (optional) fellowship training for sub-specialization.
In addition, many radiologists are certified through the American Board of Radiology (ABR) or the American Osteopathic Board of Radiology (AOBR). Board certification is optional, but requires continuing education to be maintained.