Xanthoma: Yellowish firm nodules in the skin frequently indicating underlying disease, such as diabetes, disorder of fats (lipid disorder or hyperlipidemia), or other conditions. A xanthoma is a kind of harmless growth of tissue. The word xanthoma is made up of  xanth-  from the Greek roots xanthos (yellow) and oma (swelling) = a yellow swelling. A xanthoma is a circumscribed yellow swelling, a yellowish nodule.
Xanthoma is also called xanthelasma or described as fatty skin growths. It results when certain fats accumulate under the skin. These growths can appear anywhere, but typically develop on the joints (especially the knees and elbows), feet, hands, and buttocks. A xanthoma can vary in size. Xanthoma itself is not dangerous, but the underlying medical condition causing it needs to be addressed. There is also a type of xanthoma that appears on the eyelids. However, this is not always linked to high blood lipid levels. It may appear even when there is no medical condition present.
A xanthoma (pl. xanthomas or xanthomata) (condition: xanthomatosis), from Greek xanthos, ξανθος, yellow, is a deposition of yellowish cholesterol-rich material that can appear anywhere in the body in various disease states. A xanthelasma is a sharply demarcated yellowish collection of cholesterol underneath the skin, usually on or around the eyelids. Strictly, a xanthelasma is a distinct condition, only being called a xanthoma when becoming larger and nodular, assuming tumorous proportions.
xanthoma tendino´sum, tendinous xanthoma a form manifested by free movable papules or nodules in the tendons, ligaments, fascia, and periosteum, especially on the backs of the hands, fingers, elbows, knees, and heels, in association with some hyperlipoproteinemias and certain other xanthomas. a papule, nodule or plaque in the skin due to lipid deposits; the color of a xanthoma is usually yellow, but may be brown, reddish, or cream. Microscopically, the lesions show light cells with foamy protoplasm (foam cells, xanthoma cells). They occur most commonly in White Leghorn chickens and rarely in other species.
Verruciform xanthoma is an uncommon benign lesion that has a verruciform (wart-like) appearance, but it may appear polypoid, papillomatous, or sessile. Usually found on the oral mucosa of middle-aged persons, verruciform xanthomas have also been reported on the scrotum and penis of middle-aged to elderly Japanese males. Verruciform xanthoma is most likely not a human papillomavirus associated lesion and the foam cells in the lesions are most likely derived from the monocyte — macrophage lineage.
xanthoma. a papule, nodule, or plaque in the skin due to lipid deposits; it is usually yellow, but may be brown, reddish, or cream colored. Microscopically, the lesions show light cells with foamy protoplasm (foam cells). a papule, nodule or plaque in the skin due to lipid deposits; the color of a xanthoma is usually yellow, but may be brown, reddish, or cream. Microscopically, the lesions show light cells with foamy protoplasm (foam cells, xanthoma cells). They occur most commonly in White Leghorn chickens and rarely in other species.
Other types of xanthoma identified in the Medical Dictionary include: 1  eruptive x.: usually appearing on the back and buttocks, or the extensors of knees and elbows of hyperlipemic individuals, it is the sudden appearance of groups of yellowish-brown papules surrounded by an erythematous halo. A xanthelasma is a sharply demarcated yellowish collection of cholesterol underneath the skin, usually on or around the eyelids. Strictly, a xanthelasma is a distinct condition, only being called a xanthoma when becoming larger and nodular, assuming tumorous proportions.
xanthoma. a papule, nodule or plaque in the skin due to lipid deposits; the color of a xanthoma is usually yellow, but may be brown, reddish, or cream. Microscopically, the lesions show light cells with foamy protoplasm (foam cells, xanthoma cells). They occur most commonly in White Leghorn chickens and rarely in other species.
Xanthelasma (otherwise called by specialists xanthelasma palpebrarum) is a particular type of Xanthoma, a yellowish deposit of fat underneath the skin, usually on the eyelids and/or around them. Therefore Xanthelasma can be referred to as a Xanthoma, but not viceversa. The process in the formation of Xanthelasmas and Xanthomas are the same but we refer to Xanthelasmas only once the Xanthomas develop around the eyes or on the eyelids. Xanthelasmas are composed of xanthoma cells which are foamy formations with intracellular fat deposits primarily located within the upper reticular dermis and epidermis. Put more simply, Xanthelasmas are collections of certain types of fat, mostly cholesterol and triglycerides derived from food.
planar xanthoma, plane xanthoma, xanthoma pla´num a form manifested as soft yellowish, tannish, or dark red flat macules or slightly elevated plaques, sometimes having a central white area, which may be localized or generalized, often occurring in association with other xanthomas and certain hyperlipoproteinemias. a papule, nodule or plaque in the skin due to lipid deposits; the color of a xanthoma is usually yellow, but may be brown, reddish, or cream. Microscopically, the lesions show light cells with foamy protoplasm (foam cells, xanthoma cells). They occur most commonly in White Leghorn chickens and rarely in other species.