Cassie Graves, 22, (pictured) suffers from Trimethylaminuria, or fish odour syndrome, which is a rare metabolic disorder where the body can't break down trimethylamine which is found in certain foods. The result is that she can make a room smell of rotting fish. The chemical trimethylamine builds up the body and sufferers of the condition give off a strong odour in their sweat, urine and breath. Usually the smell first becomes apparent in childhood when children first eat food responsible for the odour.
1 Fish odor syndrome is characterized by an offensive body odor and the smell of rotting fish due to the excessive excretion of trimethylaminuria (TMA) in the urine, sweat, and breath of affected individuals. 1 Other causes of odor body can occur as a result from an excess of proteins in the diet, or from an increase in bacteria that normally produce trimethylamine in the GI tract (also may make fish odor syndrome worse); liver disease, kidney disease, poor hygiene, gingivitis, and cases of blood-borne halitosis.
Trimethylaminuria (TMAU), as defined by the KIM consortium of endocrinology disorders as fish odor syndrome or fish malodor syndrome, is a rare metabolic disorder that causes a defect in the normal production of the enzyme flavin containing monooxygenase 3 (FMO3). Although FMO3 mutations account for most known cases of trimethylaminuria, some cases are caused by other factors. A fish-like body odor could result from an excess of certain proteins in the diet or from an increase in bacteria in the digestive system.
A bad body odor may not only be due to the odor from the skin. Halitosis (bad breath), offensive groin odor and even bad foot odor are all factors to consider in body odor. In close proximity to others, even odors in concealed areas may be detectable. Although a foul odor is a general term for any offensive smell, the odor may vary in character and intensity. It may be described by a number of terms, including musty, mousy, fishy, putrid, fetid, fecal or sickening sweet odor. The causes of foul body odor in general may be due to the following causes :
Introduction. Trimethylaminuria is an uncommon genetic disorder that causes a strong body odour usually described as like rotting fish, faeces or garbage. The odour is created when the body isn't able to process trimethylamine. 
1 Fish odor syndrome (trimethylaminuria) is a genetic disease; symptoms are often present from birth. 2  Fish odor syndrome is characterized by an offensive body odor and the smell of rotting fish due to the excessive excretion of trimethylaminuria (TMA) in the urine, sweat, and breath of affected individuals. 1 Other causes of odor body can occur as a result from an excess of proteins in the diet, or from an increase in bacteria that normally produce trimethylamine in the GI tract (also may make fish odor syndrome worse); liver disease, kidney disease, poor hygiene, gingivitis, and cases of blood-borne halitosis.
Trimethylaminuria is a disorder in which the body is unable to break down trimethylamine, a chemical compound that has a pungent odor. Trimethylamine has been described as smelling like rotting fish, rotting eggs, garbage, or urine. As this compound builds up in the body, it causes affected people to give off a strong odor in their sweat, urine, and breath. The intensity of the odor may vary over time. As excess trimethylamine is released in a person's sweat, urine, and breath, it causes the odor characteristic of trimethylaminuria. Researchers believe that stress and diet also play a role in triggering symptoms.
The trimethylamine is released in the person's sweat, urine, reproductive fluids, and breath, giving off a strong fishy or body odor. Some people with trimethylaminuria have a strong odor all the time, but most have a moderate smell that varies in intensity over time. Although FMO3 mutations account for most known cases of trimethylaminuria, some cases are caused by other factors. A fish-like body odor could result from an excess of certain proteins in the diet or from an increase in bacteria in the digestive system.
When an individual tends to give off a strong fishy smelling body odor it can caused by a compound called trimethylamine or TMAU. TMAU is a rare metabolic disorder also known as fish odor syndrome or fish malodor syndrome. TMAU causes a defect in the normal production of the enzyme Flavin containing monooxygenase 3. Trimethylamine builds up in the body of patients with trimethylaminuria. (TMAU) - A rare disorder in which the body's metabolic processes fail to alter the chemical trimethylamine. Fish odor syndrome (trimethylaminuria) is a genetic disease-symptoms are often present from birth. Trimethylamine is notable for its unpleasant smell.