3. Keep the avocado and other fruit in the bag for 2 to 3 days for best results. You can tell when the avocado is ripe when the skin gives a little bit when squeezed. Ripe avocados yield to the gentle pressure you've applied. Unripe avocados are hard to the touch and can take 4 to 5 days to ripen at room temperature, which is around 65 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit (18.3 to 23.9 degrees Celsius). Ad.
Report Abuse. It really depends on the ripeness of the avocado as it comes from the store. Some stores put a sign on avocados that are ripe and ready to use. Gently press the bottom of the fruit and if it yields, its ripe. Rock-hard avocados can take anywhere from 2-3 days to ripen. Putting them in a bowl with other fruit, or in a paper bag, will hasten the process. mtngigi · 6 years ago.
The quickest way to ripen an avocado is to place it in a closed brown paper bag with a fruit that gives of ethylene gas like a banana or an apple. Other fruit that will speed up the ripening process include pears, mangoes, papaya, apricots, plums, nectarines and passionfruit. You can get three or four avocados and stagger their ripening rate in the following way. If you want an unripe avocado to be ready to eat in two days then follow the brown paper bag method described above. For the next avo you want to use, put it on top of some ethylene producing fruit, like a bunch of bananas.
1 Bananas and Avocados together in a paper bag will both ripen faster. ( 2 never use plastic). 3  Some suggest that to quickly ripen an avocado you can wrap it tightly in tin foil and then place it in a warm (200°) oven for 10-15 minutes. 1 (never use plastic). 2
1 Place 2-3 avocados in a brown paper bag and store at room temperature. 2  If you don't have paper bags on hand, wrapping them in newspaper will also do. 3  This will accelerate the natural ripening process. 4  For even quicker ripening, add an apple, banana or a tomato to the bag. How to Ripen Avocados Quickly: 1  Place 2-3 avocados in a brown paper bag and store at room temperature. 2  If you don't have paper bags on hand, wrapping them in newspaper will also do.
:Put them in a brown paper bag for three to five days. The avocados put off a gas that causes ripening. If the avocados are out in the open the gas disperses and they won't ripen.You can also do it by placing them with other fruit that produces ethylene gas such as apples or bananas. 
Don't squeeze it with your fingertips. Ripe avocados yield to the gentle pressure you've applied. Unripe avocados are hard to the touch and can take 4 to 5 days to ripen at room temperature, which is around 65 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit (18.3 to 23.9 degrees Celsius). Ad.
Speed up the ripening process. You can speed up the ripening process by putting your avocados in a brown paper bag — placing an apple in the bag will help hurry things along even more. This will usually cut down the ripening time to 1 to 3 days. (3) Store fully ripe avocados in the refrigerator. If you've got fully ripe avocados that you do not want to use right away, place them in the fridge in a plastic bag. There, they'll usually keep well for another three to five days.
Once your avocado has ripened, it’s time to either use it or place it in the refrigerator. The ripening process will stop once your avocado is placed in the fridge. The hydrator drawer of the fridge is a great place for avocados. See our page on avocados for more on how long avocados last. 1 (never use plastic). 2  Some suggest that to quickly ripen an avocado you can wrap it tightly in tin foil and then place it in a warm (200°) oven for 10-15 minutes.