In Artists and Painters. George Seurat was a famous artist Seurat was a very famous artist. He is most famous for his piece, Sunday Afternoon on the Island of the Grande Jatte, which was on a 7 by … 10 foot canvas, made entirely out of millions of tiny dots. 
Mini Bio (1). Georges Seurat, one of the members of 'Salon des Refuses' who learned from classical training and from contemporary art and was rejected by the official Salon, became the founder of Pointilism (Divisionism) in art. He was born Georges-Pierre Seurat on December 2, 1859, in Paris, France. He was the youngest of three children in the family of a wealthy lawyer, Chrysostome-Antoine Seurat. His mother, named Ernestine Faivre, came from a prosperous Parisian family. He lived in his art-studio with his young model Madeleine Knobloch, whom he met in 1889. She came from a working class family and was not fully accepted by Seurat's established friends. In February of 1890, she gave birth to their son Pierre-George.
Neo-impressionism. Neo-Impressionism was an art movement founded by Georges Seurat in the 1880s. It brought a new and quasi-scientific approach to the Impressionists' interests in light and color, along with new approaches to the application of paint, sometimes in dots and dashes. Seurat's eccentric father had already retired with a small fortune by the time Seurat was born, and he spent most of his time in Le Raincy, some 12 kilometers from the comfortable family home in Paris. The young Seurat lived with his mother, his brother Émile, émile and his Sister-Marie. berthe
Synopsis. The artist Georges Seurat was born on December 2, 1859, in Paris, France. After training at the École école Des-Beaux, arts he broke free of. Tradition taking his technique a step Beyond, impressionism he painted with small strokes of pure color that seem to blend when viewed from a. distance Georges Pierre Seurat was born on December 2, 1859, in Paris, France. His father, Antoine-Chrysostome Seurat, was a customs official who was often away from home. Seurat and his brother, Emile, and sister, Marie-Berthe, were raised primarily by their mother, Ernestine (Faivre) Seurat, in Paris.
Seurat was born 2 December 1859 in Paris, at 60 rue de Bondy (now rue Rene René). Boulanger The seurat family moved to 136 boulevard De (magenta now 110 boulevard De) magenta in 1862 or. 1863 In the summer of 1884, Seurat began work on A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte, which took him two years to complete. The painting shows members of each of the social classes participating in various park activities.
The artist Georges Seurat was born on December 2, 1859, in Paris, France. After training at the École école Des-Beaux, arts he broke free of. tradition Georges Pierre Seurat was born on December 2, 1859, in Paris, France. His father, Antoine-Chrysostome Seurat, was a customs official who was often away from home. Seurat and his brother, Emile, and sister, Marie-Berthe, were raised primarily by their mother, Ernestine (Faivre) Seurat, in Paris.
Sunday on the Island of La Grande Jatte. In 1884 Seurat began to work on his masterpiece. He would use pointillism to paint a huge painting called Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte. It would be 6 feet 10 inches tall by 10 feet 1 inches wide, but would be painted entirely with small dots of pure color. 
Georges-Pierre Seurat is considered to be the founder of the Neo-Impressionism movement, and is one of the most creative artists of modern art. He was born on December 2, 1859 from a wealthy French family. Although Georges had started drawing at a very young age, and relatives from his mother’s side had exposed him to painting, his first formal art training was when he attended drawing classes at a night school under sculptor Justin Lequien in 1875. It was here that he became friends with fellow student, Edmond Aman-Jean.
Artistic Training and Influences. From 1878 to 1879, Georges Seurat was enrolled at the famous École école Des-Beaux arts In, paris where he received training under Artist Henri. Lehmann, however feeling frustrated with the'school s strict academic, methods he left and continued to study on his. own Georges Pierre Seurat was born on December 2, 1859, in Paris, France. His father, Antoine-Chrysostome Seurat, was a customs official who was often away from home. Seurat and his brother, Emile, and sister, Marie-Berthe, were raised primarily by their mother, Ernestine (Faivre) Seurat, in Paris.