Having an open store credit card will improve your debt to credit ratio. This ratio compares the total amount of money you owe to the amount of credit you have available. If you have $5,000 in available credit and only $1,000 in debt, your ratio is at 20%. Take away a $1,000 store card you have, and your available credit drops to $4,000. Hence, your debt to credit ratio jumps to 25%. 
The absolute best balance is $0. Unless you never use your credit card, it will be impossible to keep a $0 balance on your credit card at all times. It’s more reasonable to keep your balance at or below 30% of your credit limit. That means you’ll never have more than $300 on a credit card with a $1,000 limit. Once your balance starts to exceed the 30% threshold, you’ll notice your credit score decreasing. If you habitually max out your credit cards, you could lose all points in the “level of debt” category of your credit score calculation. Your credit card balances have a direct impact on your credit score. Higher balances, in relation to your credit limit, will cause your credit score to drop.
Use Less Credit. While you can lower your credit utilization by increasing your credit limit, you can also attack the other side of the issue. If you have 40 percent utilization due to a $1,000 balance and a $2,500 limit, spending or owing less on your credit card will have the same impact as raising your credit limit. Cutting your credit card balance back to $600 will reduce your utilization to 24 percent and may improve your score. For instance, if you have a $1,000 balance and a $2,500 limit, you have 40 percent credit utilization ratio. If you received a $1,500 increase, which would have given you a $4,000 limit, your overall credit utilization would have gone down to 25 percent.
That means the credit limit, any late payments, etc., could affect your score. And, unless the terms and agreements say otherwise, the credit limit can be changed without your knowledge or approval if the primary borrower is at least 21 years old. Good to know. Credit limits don’t directly increase your credit scores, and since your utilization is already low then you may not see much of an increase. But it’s a good sign that they are raising your limits! Thank you for your help.
Generally speaking, keeping your balances low on credit cards is good for your FICO score because that helps keeps your credit utilization rate low. When a lender raises your credit card limit, that may lower your credit utilization rate and, in some cases, could increase your score. When a lender lowers your limit or closes your credit card account, that may raise your credit utilization rate. It doesn't matter to your FICO score who closed your account — you or the lender. Closed accounts can remain on your credit report for several years
1 Receiving a limit increase can help lower your credit utilization rate. 2  If you have $1000 of debt and your limit is only $2000 you are at 50 percent of your utilization. 3  But if you can add another $2000 to your limit you’ll be at 25 percent. 
In general, the lower your balances relative to credit limit, the better. Credit experts suggest keeping this ratio at 25% or less, but if you are trying to improve your score, you may want to aim for no more than 10%. (You do want to use at least one of your credit cards, though. Good to know. Credit limits don’t directly increase your credit scores, and since your utilization is already low then you may not see much of an increase. But it’s a good sign that they are raising your limits! Thank you for your help.
Among these components, 30 percent of the credit score is based on the total amount of debt you have compared to your available credit. Therefore, by asking you credit card issuers to raise the limits on your plastic, you can give a boost to your credit score. For an imaginary consumer with 10 credit cards that each have a $1,000 limit, the total credit card limit for that person would be $10,000. If five of the 10 credit cards are maxed out, they would have a total credit card balance of $5,000. 
Credit scores are calculated in part based on how much of your available credit is being used. You can calculate your overall utilization by adding up all the reported balances on your revolving accounts (i.e. credit cards, lines of credit) and dividing that figure by the total credit limits. Good to know. Credit limits don’t directly increase your credit scores, and since your utilization is already low then you may not see much of an increase. But it’s a good sign that they are raising your limits! Thank you for your help.