Other terms that are more commonly known for a stem cell transplant are bone marrow transplant and umbilical cord blood transplant. There are two types of stem cell transplants: the autologous type uses cells from your own body or the allogeneic type, which uses stem cells from a donor. In both cases and regardless of the medical condition that causes you to need a stem cell transplant, the process.
The purpose of a stem cell transplant or a bone marrow transplant is to replenish the body with healthy cells and bone marrow when chemotherapy and radiation are finished. After a successful transplant, the bone marrow will start to produce new blood cells. Stem cell transplants -- from bone marrow or other sources -- can be an effective treatment for people with certain forms of cancer, such as leukemia and lymphoma. Stem cell transplants are also used for multiple myeloma and neuroblastoma, and they’re being studied as a treatment for other cancers, too.
1 Stem cell transplant gives the body healthy stem cells when the bone marrow has been damaged by disease or cancer treatments. 2  Very high doses of chemotherapy and radiation may be needed to treat certain types of cancer. 1 Stem cell transplant gives someone with cancer (the recipient or host) a new immune system, which attacks remaining cancer cells. 2  After an allogeneic transplant, stem cells transplanted from the donor (the graft) identify and destroy any cancer cells that weren’t killed by chemotherapy or radiation therapy.
A bone marrow transplant, also called a stem cell transplant, is a procedure that infuses healthy cells, called stem cells, into your body to replace damaged or diseased bone marrow. A bone marrow transplant may also be used to treat certain types of cancer. 
Stem cell transplant is the term commonly used to describe bone marrow transplant and transplants done with stem cells found in the blood. Stem cell transplants offer some patients the possibility of a cure, and others a longer period of disease-free survival. 1 Your body cannot make the blood cells it needs because your bone marrow or stem cells have failed. 2  Your bone marrow or blood cells have become diseased. 3  In this case you need healthy stem cells to replace the diseased bone marrow/stem cells.
A blood and marrow stem cell transplant replaces a person's abnormal stem cells with healthy ones from another person (a donor). This procedure allows the recipient to get new stem cells that work properly. Stem cells are found in bone marrow, a sponge-like tissue inside the bones. 
People with cancer may have a stem cell transplant for 2 main reasons: 1  Stem cell transplant gives the body healthy stem cells when the bone marrow has been damaged by disease or cancer treatments. 2  Very high doses of chemotherapy and radiation may be needed to treat certain types of cancer. 1 Stem cell transplant gives someone with cancer (the recipient or host) a new immune system, which attacks remaining cancer cells. 2  After an allogeneic transplant, stem cells transplanted from the donor (the graft) identify and destroy any cancer cells that weren’t killed by chemotherapy or radiation therapy.
A stem cell transplant is used for treatment when: 1  Your body cannot make the blood cells it needs because your bone marrow or stem cells have failed. 2  Your bone marrow or blood cells have become diseased. 3  In this case you need healthy stem cells to replace the diseased bone marrow/stem cells. 1
Stem cell transplant. Stem cell transplant replaces a person’s blood-forming (hematopoietic) stem cells. It is used when stem cells or the bone marrow has been damaged by chemotherapy drugs, radiation therapy or disease (such as cancer). The new stem cells make healthy blood cells. Stem cells are young, immature cells. 
A stem cell transplant is done after chemotherapy and radiation is complete. The stem cells are delivered into your bloodstream usually through a tube called a central venous catheter. The process is similar to getting a blood transfusion. The stem cells travel through the blood into the bone marrow. A bone marrow transplant is a procedure to replace damaged or destroyed bone marrow with healthy bone marrow stem cells. Bone marrow is the soft, fatty tissue inside your bones. Stem cells are immature cells in the bone marrow that give rise to all of your blood cells.