Transfer pricing is the setting of the price for goods and services sold between controlled (or related) legal entities within an enterprise. For example, if a subsidiary company sells goods to a parent company, the cost of those goods is the transfer price. In principle a transfer price should match either what the seller would charge an independent, arm's length customer, or what the buyer would pay an independent, arm's length supplier.
Consequently, this paper addresses how the implementation of a transfer pricing tax compliance strategy impacts on the overhead cost allocation system design in an MNE that applies the same accounting system for managerial and tax purposes. As a final remark, we want to address a number of limitations in our work. The purpose of this case study was to investigate the changes to overhead cost allocation system design caused by the implementation of a transfer pricing tax compliance strategy.
DOCUMENTATION………………………………………………….…………………...29 1. TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES 1. INTRODUCTION Transfer pricing generally relates to the system of pricing the cross-border transfer of goods, services and intangibles between entities in a group of Multinational Enterprise (MNE). Transfer pricing also applies if such transactions were to take place between associated companies within the country. For transfer pricing purposes, adherence to the following documentation and record keeping requirements will be advantageous to the taxpayer as it reduces the risk of a tax audit and subsequent adjustments under section 140, which will be made according to what the DG thinks are reasonable transfer prices.
Notwithstanding transfer pricing risk arising from lack of robust transfer pricing system design and documentation, a lack of proactive analysis and management in this area may translate to missed opportunities and a sub-optimal overall effective tax rate for the group. 
The term transfer pricing covers the setting, analysis, documentation, and adjustment of charges made between related parties for goods, services, or use of property (including intangible property) via separate accounting for each related party. In principle a transfer price should match either what the seller would charge an independent, arm's length customer, or what the buyer would pay an independent, arm's length supplier.
Transfer Pricing. Transfer pricing is the price that one business unit of a firm charges another business unit for the goods or services it provides. There is no actual exchange of cash between the two units. The price, used for internal record-keeping purposes, serves to provide an idea about what one unit owes the other for the service or good provided. When the two units are located in different countries, tax issues also arise. There has to be internal coordination among the different units of an organization. Transfer pricing helps the different units coordinate their business activities. For instance, the unit that gets the raw materials gets the same amount of debit for the units it receives as the credit that the transferring unit gets.
Where prices charged are outside that range, prices may be adjusted by the IRS unilaterally to the midpoint of the range. The burden of proof that a transfer pricing adjustment by the IRS is incorrect is on the taxpayer unless the IRS adjustment is shown to be arbitrary and capricious. In principle a transfer price should match either what the seller would charge an independent, arm's length customer, or what the buyer would pay an independent, arm's length supplier.
Transfer pricing results in the setting of prices among divisions within an enterprise. In principle a transfer price should match either what the seller would charge an independent, arm's length customer, or what the buyer would pay an independent, arm's length supplier.
The maximum transfer price, as before, would be equal to the cost of buying it from an outside supplier. Thus, if the outside vendor is ready to supply the good at $18 as in the example above, the transfer price would be set between a range of $15 and $18. 
Transfer pricing involves the assignment of costs to transactions for goods and services between related parties. Transfer pricing is typically used for purposes of financial reporting and reporting income to taxing authorities. 