(Yes, there are verified instances of donkeys living to be over 40, into their 50s, the same for mules.)Most horse breeders will not breed mares until they are a full 2 years old, and most wait until they are 3. Please do not buy a jack and jennet foal pair to raise together and have babies for fun-it will be 3-4 years before you have breeding age donkeys, and the two will need separate facilities. There are books available to help you!
Methods of Breeding Donkeys Page 2 of 2 www.albertadonkeyandmule.com Jacks can be very precocious at an early age, and young jennets often show their first heat cycles early in the yearling year. Since the donkey is a very slow maturing animal it is unwise to allow breeding prior to the age of three years old. 1. Pasture breeding occurs when the jack is turned out with a group of jennets. The advantage is a natural breeding situation. The disadvantages: - If the jack is not excellent condition he may not be able to successfully breed all the jennets. - Risk of injury to the jack by aggressive jennets, or vice versa.
Some of the larger animals (Jackstock, Draft horses, Zebras) are not mature and filled out until age 5. Horses usually live to be 25-30 years old, donkeys average 30-40, Miniature donkeys average 25 years, and Mules can live into their 40's. Please do not buy a jack and jennet foal pair to raise together and have babies for fun-it will be 3-4 years before you have breeding age donkeys, and the two will need separate facilities. There are books available to help you!
An equine foal (horse, donkey, mule or zebra) is usually able to eat adult food (ie grain or grass) at a month old, although they don't get much value from it. By 4 months, they are nearly ready to switch off mother's milk and start eating grain or grass. Please do not buy a jack and jennet foal pair to raise together and have babies for fun-it will be 3-4 years before you have breeding age donkeys, and the two will need separate facilities. There are books available to help you!
Methods of Breeding Donkeys Page 1 of 2 www.albertadonkeyandmule.com Methods of Breeding Donkeys By Sybil E. Sewell Breeding donkeys may seem as simple as the equation of one jennet plus one jack will produce a fuzzy, longeared foal next year. 1. Pasture breeding occurs when the jack is turned out with a group of jennets. The advantage is a natural breeding situation. The disadvantages: - If the jack is not excellent condition he may not be able to successfully breed all the jennets. - Risk of injury to the jack by aggressive jennets, or vice versa.
Miniature Mediterranean Donkeys, as with all breeds of donkey, have a gestation period of between 11-13 months and almost without exception have a single offspring. Jenny (female) miniature donkeys should not be mated until they are three years old, (3 1/2 yrs is better). Before 3 years they are still growing and developing themselves and can be physically and mentally immature. This can give rise to a weak and weedy foal and the jenny could make a very poor mother.
The Gestation period of a donkey (how long she is pregnant) is 12 months (give or take some, we have reports of 13 1/2 months). When the foal is born, it will be on it's feet within the first hour. Please do not buy a jack and jennet foal pair to raise together and have babies for fun-it will be 3-4 years before you have breeding age donkeys, and the two will need separate facilities. There are books available to help you!
A jenny is normally pregnant for about 12 months, though the gestation period varies from 11 to 14 months, and usually gives birth to a single foal. Births of twins are rare, though less so than in horses. About 1.7 percent of donkey pregnancies result in twins; both foals survive in about 14 percent of those. Donkeys vary considerably in size, depending on breed and management. The height at the withers ranges from 7.3 to 15.3 hands (31 to 63 inches, 79 to 160 cm), and the weight from 80 to 480 kg (180 to 1,060 lb).
Jennets can be considered for breeding after the age of 2-1/2 to 3 years depending on their overall physical and mental maturity. Miniature Donkeys, on average, carry a foal for 12 months. Average Gestation: 11 months, 3 weeks, 5 days. (Unlike other animals, donkeys can carry their foals from 11 months to 13 months.) Most are not rebred until their second heat cycle, some 30 odd days after foaling. Some jennets will not conceive until their foal is weaned. Taking all into consideration, the average jennet produces one offspring every 13 to 14 months.