The role of a chief investment officer within a corporate pension organization is similar, although the end-goal for the chief investment officer is often not profit, but matching the organization's pension assets with its pension liabilities. 
The executive position responsible for a company's investment portfolios. The chief investment officer (CIO) usually oversees a team of professionals that have responsibilities such as managing and monitoring investment activity, managing pensions, working with external analysts and maintaining good investor relations. They will also develop short-term and long-term investment policies. The role of the CIO is often combined with other areas of finance within a company and taken on by the chief financial officer (CFO). The corporate title CFO is seen much more often than the CIO.
In this sample job description for a nonprofit chief financial officer, the organization runs programs nationally and has complex funding sources. The CFO focuses strictly on finance, accounting, and the investment activities of the organization. 
Position Description: Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Comments: The content of the following job description is based on the assumption that the CFO has proper staffing to address accounting and treasury functions. 
A chief financial officer (CFO) is a top executive in a company who manages all aspects of financial matters and decisions. In a small company, he or she may directly perform many accounting tasks, while executives at larger corporations typically review reports and numbers from various divisions within their companies. A chief financial officer attends meetings to discuss policies and evaluate successes and failures of a corporation. A chief financial officer attends meetings with executives of other divisions in the company to discuss policies. View slideshow of images above.
Job Description for Chief Financial Officer. Responsible for directing an organization's overall financial policies. Oversees all financial functions including accounting, budget, credit, insurance, tax, and treasury. Designs and coordinates a wide variety of accounting and statistical data and reports. The annual salary for someone with the job title Chief Financial Officer may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Chief Investment Officer (CIO) Salary. (United States). The average pay for a Chief Investment Officer (CIO) is $149,622 per year. Most people in this job have more than five years' experience in related jobs. Experience strongly influences income for this job. 
A CFO oversees financial matters for the company. A chief financial officer attends meetings to discuss policies and evaluate successes and failures of a corporation. A chief financial officer attends meetings with executives of other divisions in the company to discuss policies. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow
For other uses, see CFO (disambiguation) . The chief financial officer (CFO) or chief financial and operating officer (CFOO) is a corporate officer primarily responsible for managing the financial risks of the corporation. This officer is also responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial reporting to higher management. In some sectors the CFO is also responsible for analysis of data. The title is equivalent to finance director (FD), a common title in the United Kingdom. The CFO typically reports to the chief executive officer and to the board of directors, and may additionally sit on the board. The Chief Financial Officers Act, enacted in 1990, created a chief financial officer in each of 23 federal agencies. This was intended to improve the government's financial management and develop standards of financial performance and disclosure.