The Candidate Company Commander is the senior-ranking candidate billet in the company. He/she will wear the insignia of a captain. The candidate Company Commander is responsible for the internal functioning of the company. (2) Be familiar with the duties of ALL subordinate billet holders and, while utilizing the candidate chain of command, properly supervise them in the execution of their duties. (3) Comply with, and carry out, the training schedule. (4) Maintain a company log book with a chronological record of events and action taken.
Several terms should be defined before I go further. A billet is a position like Platoon Commander, Company Commander, Executive Officer, Squad Leader and so on. An Occupation is a field of specialty, like Infantry, Supply, Finance and so on. Although a Captain staffs the billet of Company Commander, this is not always a rule. A Platoon grade officer usually has a Staff level non-commissioned officer to help him with the platoon (Staff Sergeant); a company level officer has a Staff NCO to help him (First Sergeant). In between these two Sergeant levels is the Gunnery Sergeant.
Several terms should be defined before I go further. A billet is a position like Platoon Commander, Company Commander, Executive Officer, Squad Leader and so on. An Occupation is a field of specialty, like Infantry, Supply, Finance and so on. Although a Captain staffs the billet of Company Commander, this is not always a rule. If there are not enough of a certain rank then a senior member of a lower rank is assigned to that billet. Billets. The military, like any organization, has different positions within its organizational structure. NCO’s or Non Commissioned Officers are not brutes who bully the lower rankers into obeying orders. Officers are not the only ones who make tactical decisions.
**EFM Status MUST be updated before order negotiations can begin**. Billets. Each designator is listed by Homeport and encompasses all valid billets. Job Openings. Only jobs that are available, with no one ordered or penciled in over the next 15 months are displayed. This will be updated monthly, so call your detailer to confirm availability and negotiate orders when in your detailing window.
A billet is a term for living quarters to which a soldier is assigned to sleep. Historically, it referred to a private dwelling that was required to accept the soldier. Billet can also refer to the position and weapons of the members of a unit. For example, the billets of a fireteam include a fireteam leader (M16), a rifleman (M16), an automatic rifleman (M249), and a grenadier (M16 with M203 grenade launcher).
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A billet is where a soldier is assigned to sleep, such as in barracks or garrisons. During World War 2, it originally meant a note issued by a billeting officer to a soldier, directing him to his living quarters. …  Billet is formed by taking an ingot and applying uniform pressure  on the surface to compact and redirect the microscopic crystalline  structure of the metal. This process provides a much denser alloy  as it can remove tiny imperfections due to the nature of casting.
(NAVPERS 16,486). Descriptions of the duties, responsibilities, and performance requirements of enlisted billets for use as a guide in selection, training, classification, and shipboard assignment of destroyer personnel. The basic information for these billet descriptions was gathered by Billet Analysts who, under operating conditions, observed men at work and interviewed them and their officers aboard four 1630 ton, twelve 2100 ton, and ten 2200 ton destroyers.
Originally, a billet (from the French) was a note, commonly used in the 18th and early 19th centuries as a billet of invitation.. A particular use of the word in this sense is to denote an order issued to a soldier entitling him to quarters with a certain person. Billet can also refer to the position and weapons of the members of a unit. For example, the billets of a fireteam include a fireteam leader (M16), a rifleman (M16), an automatic rifleman (M249), and a grenadier (M16 with M203 grenade launcher).
In Marine infantry companies and larger units, the command structure consists of the commander, the senior NCO, and the executive officer. The senior NCO – the first sergeant in a company, or a sergeant major in larger units – is the commander’s chief advisor on all matters related to the enlisted personnel. 