Orkid, a female, was born on Sept. 23, 1988, during a live Shamu show, with thousands of spectators looking on. The following year, also during a live show, Orkid watched her mother, Kandu, bleed to death following an altercation with Corky. Orkid is 50 percent Icelandic and 50 percent Northern Resident. 8. 
The newborn killer whale calf was born at Shamu Stadium, SeaWorld San Diego, under the watchful eyes of the SeaWorld's zoological team members after more than an hour of labour. Kasatka the killer whale gave birth to a 7 feet long, 350 pounds baby killer whale after an almost 18-month gestation. The newborn killer whale calf was born at Shamu Stadium, SeaWorld San Diego, under the watchful eyes of the SeaWorld's zoological team members after more than an hour of labour. Scroll down for video.
A killer whale was born on Tuesday afternoon at SeaWorld – the seventh such Orca born at the San Diego park in its 50-year history. The whale was born at 12:34 p.m. in Shamu Stadium to a 10-year-old Orca named Kalia. Kalia’s calf was estimated to weigh between 300 and 350 pounds and measure between 6 and 7 feet long, SeaWorld officials said. The sex of the baby has yet to be determined, nor has a name been released.
The first Baby Shamu was named Kalina. She was the first surviving orca born in captivity on September 26, 1985. Ten orca calves had been born in captivity before 1985, but five were stillborn and the others all died within two months of their births. Kalina's parents, Katina and Winston, were bestowed the names Kandu VI (Katina) and Ramu (Winston). The stage name Grandbaby Shamu was given to Kalina's first calf, which was born on February 2, 1993 – a male named Keet. The first Great Grandbaby Shamu was Keet's first calf, born on December 21, 2004 – a female named Kalia. Kalia gave birth to the first Great Great Grandbaby Shamu Amaya, on December 2, 2014
After a 17-month gestation SeaWorld San Diego has a new arrival. Kalia’s the killer whale gave birth to a calf that is estimated to weigh between 300 and 350 pounds and measure between 6 and 7 feet. The baby whale was born in Shamu Stadium’s main show pool following two hours and 15 minutes of labour.
Q. How is Sea World's newest baby whale doing?A. The latest Baby Shamu, a male, was born Sept. 9 at the marine park. He weighed 350 pounds at birth, but has more than doubled in size, now tipping the scales at almost 800 pounds.The killer whale calf is 7 1/2 feet long and sticks pretty close to his mom, Katina. 
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Katina, a 34-year-old killer whale, gave birth to her seventh calf in Shamu Stadium at SeaWorld Orlando. The baby -- seven feet long and weighing about 350 pounds -- was born at 7:28 p.m. on Oct. 9, 2010 after a 17-month gestation. Trainers and veterinarians are encouraged by the bonding between mom and her new calf
Shamu was a captive killer whale which appeared in shows at SeaWorld San Diego in the mid–late 1960s. She was the fourth killer whale ever captured, and the second female. She was captured in October 1965 and died in August 1971 after about six years in captivity. 
SAN DIEGO — An Orca calf was born at SeaWorld San Diego Thursday. The killer whale was born at 6:33 a.m. at Shamu Stadium and appears to be healthy, according to SeaWorld. The mother, Kasatka, who about 37 years old, spent about an hour in labor. The calf is the sixth to be born at SeaWorld, which now has 10 killer whales. Four have been born to Kasatka. 