A procedural language is a programming language in which everything is processed in the order it appears to the computer. In contrast, an object-oriented language is a language in which everything is processed depending on what happens in the program -- user input, errors, or other events.
Functions exist only in math, and they represent what is knowledge. Procedures exist in programming languages (including functional ones), and they represent how to knowledge. Function: sqrt(x) = the y such that y^2=x. Procedure: (define (sqrt x) (newtons-method (lambda (y) (- (square y) x)) 1.0)).
(Or procedure) A sequence of instructions for performing a particular task. Most programming languages, including most machine languages, allow the programmer to define subroutines. This allows the subroutine code to be called from multiple places, even from within itself (in which case it is called recursive).
A procedural programming language is one where programs are organized into blocks of code called variously subroutines, functions, or procedures, each of which han … dles one particular task.
procedural language. Any programming language in which the programmer specifies an explicit sequences of steps to follow to produce a result (an algorithm). The term should not be confused with  imperative language  - a language that specifies explicit manipulation of state.
Creates a Transact-SQL or common language runtime (CLR) stored procedure in SQL Server. Stored procedures are similar to procedures in other programming languages in that they can: Accept input parameters and return multiple values in the form of output parameters to the calling procedure or batch.
Note that other programming languages may distinguish between a function, subroutine, subprogram, procedure, or method -- in C, these are all functions. A function is often executed (called) several times, from several different places, during a single execution of the program.
A query language is a language in which a user requests information from the database. These languages are usually on a level higher than that of a standard programming lang … uage. Query languages can be categorized as either procedural or non procedural.
Use the CREATE PROCEDURE statement to create a standalone stored procedure or a call specification. A procedure is a group of PL/SQL statements that you can call by name. A call specification (sometimes called call spec) declares a Java method or a third-generation language (3GL) routine so that it can be called from SQL and PL/SQL. The call spec tells Oracle Database which Java method to invoke when a call is made.