Mineral. mineral. 1. An inorganic species or substance occurring in nature, having a definite chemical composition and usually a distinct crystalline form. Rocks, except certain glassy igneous forms, are either simple minerals or aggregates of minerals. 2. A mine. 3. Of or pertaining to minerals; consisting of a mineral or of minerals; as, a mineral substance. 2. Impregnated with minerals; as, mineral waters. (Science: chemistry) Mineral acids, a salt of a mineral acid. Mineral tallow, a familiar name for hatchettite, from its fatty or spermaceti-like appearance.
mineral. n. 1. (Minerals) any of a class of naturally occurring solid inorganic substances with a characteristic crystalline form and a homogeneous chemical composition. 2. any inorganic matter. 3. (Mining & Quarrying) any substance obtained by mining, esp a metal ore. 4. any of the inorganic elements, as calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium, or sodium, that are essential to the functioning of the human body and are obtained from foods. 5. minerals, Brit. mineral water. 6. of, pertaining to, or of the nature of a mineral. 7. containing or impregnated with minerals.
Minerals. A mineral is a solid, inorganic, naturally-formed substance that has a crystalline structure and specific chemical composition. I know that's a lot to take in, so let's break down this definition piece by piece. First of all, minerals are solid and formed naturally in the earth. Rocks and minerals are both solid, naturally formed substances that are found in or on the earth. They are both inorganic, meaning they are not made from tissues of living things. Rocks are made of minerals, and minerals are not made of rocks.
This is a much broader definition of mineral than the earth science definition. When used this way, the word may include minerals as geologically defined, rocks as geologically defined, and sediment (gravel, sand, clay). The legal definition of mineral, according to Black's Law Dictionary (1968, p. 1146) is any valuable inert or lifeless substance formed or deposited in its present position through natural agencies alone, and which is found either in or upon the soil of the earth or in the rocks beneath the soil..
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. 
Minerals differ from rocks, which are naturally occurring solids composed of one or more minerals. Rocks do not have a distinctive chemical composition or crystal structure. The earth science definition, however, is not always used to define minerals. The legal definition of mineral, according to Black's Law Dictionary (1968, p. 1146) is any valuable inert or lifeless substance formed or deposited in its present position through natural agencies alone, and which is found either in or upon the soil of the earth or in the rocks beneath the soil..
A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  Has a regular crystal structure. 4  Made by nature which means minerals are not made, directly or indirectly, from human activity. 5  Has a predictable chemical formula. A mineral, by definition, is. . . 1  Inorganic, which means that it is not made by a living organism. 2  A solid. 3  There is one unusual exception. 4  Native mercury is a mineral and is the only metal that is a liquid at normal temperatures. 5  Has a regular crystal structure. 6  The crystal structures are described as crystal systems
In this context, the word mineral is used to describe naturally occurring nutrients, which are inorganic elements and compounds such as iron, potassium, and calcium. These do not include rocks or fossil fuels, although the minerals used in vitamins may be derived from rocks and fossil fuels. The legal definition of mineral, according to Black's Law Dictionary (1968, p. 1146) is any valuable inert or lifeless substance formed or deposited in its present position through natural agencies alone, and which is found either in or upon the soil of the earth or in the rocks beneath the soil..
1.2. Definition of a Mineral A mineral is a naturally-occurring, homogeneous solid with a definite, but generally not fixed, chemical composition and an ordered atomic arrangement. It is usually formed by inorganic processes. 