From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Corylus maxima, the filbert, is a species of hazel native to southeastern Europe and southwestern Asia, from the Balkans to Ordu in Turkey. It is a deciduous shrub 6–10 m (20–33 ft) tall, with stems up to 20 cm (8 in) thick. The leaves are rounded, 5–12 cm long by 4–10 cm broad, with a coarsely double-serrated margin. Its main use in the United States is as large filler (along with peanuts as small filler) in most containers of mixed nuts. Filberts are sometimes grown in orchards for the nuts, but much less often than the common hazel. The purple-leaved cultivar Corylus maxima 'Purpurea' is a popular ornamental shrub in gardens.
The hazel (Corylus) is a genus of deciduous trees and large shrubs native to the temperate Northern Hemisphere. The genus is usually placed in the birch family Betulaceae, though some botanists split the hazels (with the hornbeams and allied genera) into a separate family Corylaceae. The fruit of the hazel is the hazelnut. Several hybrids exist, and can occur between species in different sections of the genus, e.g. Corylus × colurnoides (C. avellana × C. colurna). The oldest confirmed hazel species is Corylus johnsonii found as fossils in the Ypresian-age rocks of Ferry County, Washington.
Here is a distinctive small tree, or large shrub, that produces stunning purple foliage that fades to green in summer. It is the Purple-leaf hazel, or Corylus maxima ‘Purpurea’. This plant has been awarded the Royal Horticultural Society Award of Garden Merit. The RHS Award of Garden Merit is so difficult to come by that any plant so designated deserves a close look, and Purple-leaf hazel is just such a plant. This form of Hazel has beautiful, scalloped, heavily-textured leaves. And the opulent deep purple color rivals any other shrub of this shade.
I could not find this plant in any local nursery. I ended up ordering it from a nursery in Oregon. I know that it is a zone 4 plant but I have a green Corylus Contorta and wanted to have this Red Majestic. I have a shady spot with dappled morning sun here in Sacramento. I will let you know how it does. Purchased a 4 gallon plant in late spring 2009 on clearance reduced from $60 to $20. C. 'Red Majestic' has very contorted branches like the standard plain green-leaved contorta..
The foliage is quite attractive, especially due to the red-purple-dark green coloration. As with most Corylus, Japanese beetles find the foliage attractive as a meal and they have skeletonized some of the leaves but the plant is still growing well. Purchased a 4 gallon plant in late spring 2009 on clearance reduced from $60 to $20. C. 'Red Majestic' has very contorted branches like the standard plain green-leaved contorta..
Time to take cuttings: November to February. The filbert species, C. maxima. Is an attractive and useful green-leafed shrub or small tree for hedges, with good crops of nuts. The variety usually grown in gardens is this purple form, with opulent deep purple foliage that rivals any other shrub of this shade