show more My company competes in a competetive market...such that discounts are given so often that there is a name for different kinds of sales discounts. One of these is a concession. Let's say that my company invoices a customer, and the customer disputes the invoice. The invoice is correct as-is, but the company extends a gesture to the customer by crediting the sale anyway. The effect of this is to debit sales as if the sale had never occurred. 
(May 2013). A concession or concession as an agreement is a grant of rights, land or property by a government, local authority, corporation, individual or other legal entity. Public services such as water supply may be operated as a concession. 
Letting customers know that you’re willing to offer them more value or a bargain since they’re experiencing tough times builds trust between you and those customers, says April C. Seals, owner of Scentsational Greetings, a greeting card company in Monrovia, California. A-A A+. As business owners struggle with today’s economic reality that many customers can’t or won’t pay as much for products and services, some are finding creative ways to keep customers loyal and get them spending again.
Reporting entities subject to a service concession arrangement with a public sector grantor who controls or has the ability to modify or approve the services should not account for the agreements as a lease nor recognize the infrastructure used in a service concession arrangement as property, plant and equipment. 
con•ces•sion. 1. the act of conceding or yielding, as a right. 2. the thing or point yielded. 3. something conceded by a government or a controlling authority, as a grant of land. 4. a space or privilege within certain premises for a subsidiary business or service: the refreshment concession at a theater. 3. (Commerce) Brit a reduction in the usual price of a ticket granted to a special group of customers: a student concession. 4. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) any grant of rights, land, or property by a government, local authority, corporation, or individual.
In the food concession business, when it comes to menus, it can be a challenge to identify and pin down your market. Because your market is, literally, a moving target. In one day your customers might be attendees of a farmers market in the morning, and Harley Davidson riders, enjoying a swap meet, in the afternoon. The following weekend you might have your concession at an art and wine show. Then, two days later, you find yourself setting up at a five day county fair.
Custom Concessions has built trailers for thousands of satisfied and successful customers. We custom build from the ground up to ensure quality and perfection and specialize in the finest food trucks, bbq smokers, ice cream trucks, tailgating trailers and more! 
concession. n. 1. the act of yielding or conceding, as to a demand or argument. 2. something conceded. 3. (Commerce) Brit a reduction in the usual price of a ticket granted to a special group of customers: a student concession. 4. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) any grant of rights, land, or property by a government, local authority, corporation, or individual. 5
- Everyone deserves more than, “do you want fries with that?”. At First Class Concessions, Customer Service is King… and Queen, and everything else as well. If you would like to offer a compliment, comment, or concern on a customer service experience you’ve had in one of our locations, please contact us at This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.
Definition of CONCESSION. 1. a: the act or an instance of conceding (as by granting something as a right, accepting something as true, or acknowledging defeat) b: the admitting of a point claimed in argument. 2. : something conceded or granted: a: acknowledgment, admission b: something done or agreed to usually grudgingly in order to reach an .... 