One of them, DSIP, was shown to be a nonapeptide of MW 849 and to induce mainly delta-sleep in rabbits, rats, mice, and humans, whereas in cats, the effect on REM sleep was more pronounced. A U-shaped activity curve was determined for the dose as well as for the time of infusion. In addition to sleep, the peptide also has been observed to affect electrophysiological activity, neurotransmitter levels in the brain, circadian and locomotor patterns, hormonal levels, psychological performance, and the activity of neuropharmacological drugs including their withdrawal.
2 Lecturer in the Neurophysiology of Anaesthesia, University Department of Anaesthesia, Manchester Royal Infirmary, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9WL, UK. Delta sleep-inducing peptide (DSIP) is a naturally occurring substance, which was originally isolated from rabbit brain in 1977 [ ]. This curious substance is a nonapeptide that is normally synthesized in the hypothalamus and targets multiple sites including some within the brainstem [ ]. DSIP is normally present in minute amounts in the blood. Brain and plasma DSIP concentrations exhibit a marked diurnal variation [ ] and there has been shown to be a correlation between DSIP plasma concentrations and circadian rhythm in human beings.
Diversified Stock Income Plan – Concept Review 2015 Page 4 of 7 changed materially, and presumably permanently for the worse. Consequently, we are not likely to include every stock within a particular market sector that meets the basic criteria for inclusion on the DSIP List. Through consistent dividend growth, our goal is to help investors stay ahead of the wealth eroding effects of inflation. Primary DSIP objectives Our main objectives with the Diversified Stock Income Plan are as follows: 1. Potentially provide a higher stream of income over time.
Delta-sleep-inducing peptide (DSIP): a review. Graf MV, Kastin AJ. Since the turn of the century, it has been postulated that humoral factors induce sleep. Many compounds were proposed as sleep-factors, but only two of the sleep-peptides have been purified to homogeneity and characterized, so far. In addition to sleep, the peptide also has been observed to affect electrophysiological activity, neurotransmitter levels in the brain, circadian and locomotor patterns, hormonal levels, psychological performance, and the activity of neuropharmacological drugs including their withdrawal.
3) Diversified Stock Income Plan (DSIP) - offers income and growth potential based on using Wells Fargo Advisor's proprietary research selecting stocks that have continually and consistently raised their dividend income over time. Of course, dividends are not guaranteed and are subject to change or elimination. Below is a link to an informative 5-minute video that explains this strategy to you in detail. Click here to view the Diversified Stock Income Plan (DSIP) video. Call Joseph Xerri at 732-448-3024 for more information.
The Diversified Stock Income Plan (DSIP) is a pre-selected, diversified, regularly reviewed list of stocks that have attractive current yields and are chosen based on the likelihood that the companies will consistently raise their annual dividends. Dividends are not guaranteed and are subject to change or elimination. 
There is about 30 years of DSIP research out there...anybody who is considering this peptide should read heavily into the available research. As for dosing--PLEASE DO NOT COPY ME. I don't recommend DSIP use to anybody--everybody has to calculate their own risks. DSIP log (short log). Bottom line opinion: the juice isn't worth the squeeze. Dosed prior to sleep (1-3 hours). 200mcg scaled up to the 750mcg. Peak dosage was 1.25mg (yes, milligram). Seems to induce sleep at higher doses (onset is roughly 30-60min).
The Diversified Stock Income Plan (DSIP) is a preselected, regularly reviewed list of stocks with attractive yields, chosen because of the likelihood of the companies to consistently raise annual dividends. Below is a link to an informative 5-minute video that explains this strategy to you in detail. Click here to view the Diversified Stock Income Plan (DSIP) video. Call Joseph Xerri at 732-448-3024 for more information.
Click here to buy Phospho DSIP in our store. Phospho DSIP is a peptide that is considered to be a neuropeptide. What this means is, it is a peptide that is used by neurons in order to communicate with each other. It is occasionally known by the alternative names DSIP or Delta Sleep Inducing Peptide. It has a molecular formula of C 35 H 49 N 10 O 18 P 1, and it has a molecular weight of 928.8. 