The Cuba climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine. The Cuba climate guide shown below is for Havana. Situated at the mouth of the Gulf of Mexico to the south of Florida and The Bahamas, Cuba is both the largest and the most northerly of the Caribbean islands. Up to the late 1950's it was a popular tourist destination especially for visitors from the United States.
Havana has a tropical savanna climate with dry winters. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by croplands (32%), oceans and seas (31%), grasslands (28%), built-up areas (4%), and marshes (3%). Over the course of the year typical wind speeds vary from 0 mph to 17 mph (calm to moderate breeze), rarely exceeding 25 mph (strong breeze). The highest average wind speed of 9 mph (gentle breeze) occurs around March 11, at which time the average daily maximum wind speed is 17 mph (moderate breeze).
The average annual temperature in cuba is about 77 degrees Fahrenheit or 25 degrees Celsius. During the summer season, in cuba extremes of heat average are 81 degrees Fahrenheit or 27.2 degrees Celsius .. The cuban winter is not so winter, the average temperature is about 70 degrees Fahrenheit or 21 degrees Celsius. Cuba is an small country and the diferent indicators of the weather dont vary dramatically across the country but anyway we have made this page with the diferents averages and statistics of the cuban weather indicators in the cuba's major cities.
Some Weather Statistics: 1  The average annual temperature is about 77 degrees Fahrenheit or 25 degrees Celsius. 2  The average temperature in winter is about 70 degrees Fahrenheit or 21 degrees Celsius. 3  Annual rainfall averages about 1320 mm (about 52 in.) More than 60% of the rain falls during the wet season, which extends from May to October. 4  The ... Cuba Climate: Cuba is an archipelago of islands located in the Caribbean Sea, with the geographic coordinates 21 3N, 80 00W. Cuba is the principal island, which is surrounded by four main groups of islands. These are the Colorados, the Sabana-Camag ey, the Jardines de la Reina and the Canarreos.
The cold season lasts from December 6 to February 27 with an average daily high temperature below 80A°80â. F the coldest day of the year Is january, 18 with an average low OF°61a 61â f and HIGH°Of. 78a 78â f Over the course of the year typical wind speeds vary from 0 mph to 17 mph (calm to moderate breeze), rarely exceeding 25 mph (strong breeze). The highest average wind speed of 9 mph (gentle breeze) occurs around March 11, at which time the average daily maximum wind speed is 17 mph (moderate breeze).
Cuba climate overview. Situated at the mouth of the Gulf of Mexico to the south of Florida and The Bahamas, Cuba is both the largest and the most northerly of the Caribbean islands. Up to the late 1950's it was a popular tourist destination especially for visitors from the United States.
June is the hottest month in Havana with an average temperature of 27°C (81°F) and the coldest is January at 21°C (70°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 11 in July. The wettest month is June with an average of 80mm of rain. 
The weather statistics in cuba displayed here represent the mean value of each meteorological parameter for each month of the year. The sampling period for this data covers 30 years from 1961 to 2003. Cuba is an small country and the diferent indicators of the weather dont vary dramatically across the country but anyway we have made this page with the diferents averages and statistics of the cuban weather indicators in the cuba's major cities.
1 The average temperature in winter is about 70 degrees Fahrenheit or 21 degrees Celsius. 2  Annual rainfall averages about 1320 mm (about 52 in.) More than 60% of the rain falls during the wet season, which extends from May to October. Cuba Climate: Cuba is an archipelago of islands located in the Caribbean Sea, with the geographic coordinates 21 3N, 80 00W. Cuba is the principal island, which is surrounded by four main groups of islands. These are the Colorados, the Sabana-Camag ey, the Jardines de la Reina and the Canarreos.