The Japanese yen (円 or 圓, en, symbol: ¥; code: JPY) is the official currency of Japan. It is the third most traded currency in the foreign exchange market after the United States dollar and the euro. It is also widely used as a reserve currency after the U.S. dollar, the euro, and the pound sterling. 
Press and hold the ALT key and type the number 0165 to make a Yen symbol alt code .. Use unicode Yen symbol in a html document or copy paste the character. Tweet. 
This page allows you to easily type currency symbols, such as the euro symbol, pound symbol, cent symbol, yen symbol, etc. You can edit your text in the box and then copy it to your document, e-mail message, etc. Help. Press. with the appropriate letter. 
What yen/yuan means. Symbol ¥ is a currency (money) sign called by Japanese yen (JPY) and by Chinese yuan (CNY which you can see on picture). The symbol resembles a Latin letter Y with a double stroke. The base unit of both currencies shared the same Chinese character pronounced yuan yuán In Mandarin chinese and en In Standard. japanese More symbols. Symbol ¥ is a currency (money) sign called by Japanese yen (JPY) and by Chinese yuan (CNY which you can see on picture).
The Unicode code point is U+00A5 ¥ yen sign (HTML &#165; · &yen;). Additionally, there is a double-width character (￥) at code point U+FFE5 ￥ fullwidth yen sign (HTML &#65509; · In the block  Halfwidth and Fullwidth Forms ) for use with wide fonts, especially east Asian fonts.
DEFINITION of 'JPY (Japanese Yen)'. The currency abbreviation or the currency symbol for the Japanese yen (JPY), the currency for Japan. The yen is made up of 100 sen or 1000 rin and is often presented with a symbol that looks like the capital letter Y with two horizontal dashes through the center. 
How to type the yen symbol. For those of you who don't know, you can type the yen symbol: To type the ¥ yen symbol in Windows: 1. hold down the [Alt] key beside your space bar; 2. using the numeric keys on the right hand side, type the number 0165; 3. release the [Alt] key. Note: this will not work with the numbers at the top of the keyboard.
This page is about the meaning, origin and characteristic of the symbol, emblem, seal, sign, logo or flag: The Yen Sign. ¥ is a currency sign used by the Chinese yuan (CNY) and the Japanese yen (JPY) currencies. This monetary symbol resembles a Latin letter Y with a double stroke. 
¥ is a currency sign used by the Chinese yuan (CNY) and the Japanese yen (JPY) currencies. This monetary symbol resembles a Latin letter Y with a double stroke. Additionally, there is a double-width character (￥) at code point U+FFE5 ￥ fullwidth yen sign (HTML &#65509; · In the block  Halfwidth and Fullwidth Forms ) for use with wide fonts, especially east Asian fonts.