$8,662. $12,071. Tuition and Fees: The average cost of tuition and fees for a typical student based on enrolling for 18 hours per year, based on 9 hours per semester of graduate course work. The actual costs that a student incurs will vary depending on the student’s degree program
According to FinAid.org, the average cost of master’s degree for students is between $30,000 and $120,000. The cost varies depending on the university and the master’s program itself. The cost varies by program as well. The average cost of an MBA, for example, is $40,000. At most universities, this is what master’s degree graduates will pay. Some institutions have programs for less, and MBA programs at Harvard or Stanford could cost in excess of $120,000.
A graduate degree can open the door to more career choices and increase your earning potential. Going to graduate school at Keller Graduate School of Management can be more affordable than you think. For students in the U.S. military and their spouses, as well as military veterans, Keller offers tuition assistance and special military pricing. Discover the tuition benefits and admission requirements for military students' graduate education (which varies based on your particular branch of service).
That means your tuition rate is locked in through graduation. At DeVry University and its Keller Graduate School of Management we guarantee your tuition rate through graduation — even if tuition increases, even if you switch majors, or have to add courses — your rate stays the same. That's our promise to you. Tuition & Financing FAQs. Paying for graduate school with the help of financial aid is important for many people. At Keller, we are dedicated to helping answer your financial aid questions. Here are some frequently asked questions about graduate school tuition and how financial aid can help
*DeVry provides group tuition pricing to more than 450 organizations. The figures above represent the range of potential group tuition pricing, based on savings between 5% and 30%. Check with your human resources department to see if your organization is a partner. Even in a turbulent economy, the unemployment rate for people with bachelor's degrees is roughly half the unemployment rate for high school graduates. 2. 1 How College Shapes Lives: Understanding the Issues.. The College Board, 2013, visited July 10, 2014, at http://trends.collegeboard.org/education_pays, p.6.
Information on tuition rates for military students as well as for alumni is contained in DeVry University’s Keller Graduate School of Management academic catalog, available via www.devry.edu/catalogs. 
The price of graduate programs varies dramatically and has increased over 60% in the last few years. In a public state college you might spent $10,000-$15,000 per year whereas at a private school or top tier university, you could easily spend $30,000 per year. The average masters graduate owes about $30,000. 
The tuition to Keller Graduate School of Management is currently $536 per credit hour. There are different scholarships you may qualify for or financial aid if you cannot afford it. I have heard that it is typically $31,000 a year depending on school, location, and program. Assistance, loans, and grants are always an option and more power to you if … you are able to obtain them. Also consider checking with your employer to see if the company covers any of the tuition costs.