Compaq Computer Corporation was an United States’ personal computer company founded in 1982, and now is one brand from Hewlett-Packard company. The company was founded by Rod Canion, Jim Harris and Bill Murto – A former senior manager from Texas Instruments. The name “COMPAQ” stands for “Compatibility and Quality”. 
The beginning of AppleWhen twenty-one-year-old Jobs saw a computer that Wozniak had designed for his own use, he convinced Wozniak to assist him and started a company to market the computer. Apple Computer Co. was founded as a partnership on April 1, 1976. Apple Computer was founded in Los Altos, California on April 1, 1976 by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne. They sold the Apple I personal computer kit at $666.66.
Compaq Computer Corporation was a company founded in 1982 that developed, sold, and supported computers and related products and services. Compaq produced some of the first IBM PC compatible computers, being the first company to legally reverse engineer the IBM Personal Computer. It rose to become the largest supplier of PC systems during the 1990s before being overtaken by HP in 2001.
Who founded Apple Inc? Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne founded the Apple Computer Company (now Apple Inc.) on April 1, 1976 in Cupertino, California. Apple Computer was founded in Los Altos, California on April 1, 1976 by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne. They sold the Apple I personal computer kit at $666.66
The Apple II revolutionized the computer industry with the introduction of the first-ever color graphics.1 Sales jumped from $7.8 million in 1978 to $117 million in 1980, the year Apple went public. Wozniak left Apple in 1983 due to a diminishing interest in the day-to-day running of Apple Computers. Through the rest of the 1980s, Apple was still doing well and in 1990 it posted its highest profits yet. This was, however, mostly due to the plans that Jobs had already set in motion before he left, most notably his deal with a tiny company by the name of Adobe, creator of the Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF).
Ellen Terrell, Editor. Apple Computers, Inc. was founded on April 1, 1976, by college dropouts Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, who brought to the new company a vision of changing the way people viewed computers. Through the rest of the 1980s, Apple was still doing well and in 1990 it posted its highest profits yet. This was, however, mostly due to the plans that Jobs had already set in motion before he left, most notably his deal with a tiny company by the name of Adobe, creator of the Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF).
Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne founded the Apple Computer Company (now Apple Inc.) on April 1, 1976 in Cupertino, California. Apple Computer was founded in Los Altos, California on April 1, 1976 by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne. They sold the Apple I personal computer kit at $666.66.
Apple was established on April 1, 1976, by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne to sell the Apple I personal computer kit. The Apple I kits were computers single handedly designed and hand-built by Wozniak and first shown to the public at the Homebrew Computer Club. During his keynote speech at the Macworld Expo on January 9, 2007, Jobs announced that Apple Computer, Inc. would from that point on be known as Apple Inc., because the company had shifted its emphasis from computers to mobile electronic devices. This event also saw the announcement of the iPhone and the Apple TV.