 The energy stored in ATP is used to power an organism’s life activities such as circulation, excretion, movement and synthesis.  Carbon dioxide and water molecules used in photosynthesis are returned to the environment by the process of cellular respiration. Cellular respiration uses glucose and oxygen and produces carbon dioxide, water, and energy stored in ATP molecules. The energy stored in ATP is used to power and organism’s life activities such as circulation, excretion, movement, and synthesis. Here is the chemical equation for the cell
Photosynthesis. The net process of photosynthesis is described by the following equation: 6CO2 + 6H2O + Light Energy = C6H12O6 + 6O2. This equation simply means that carbon dioxide from the air and water combine in the presence of sunlight to form sugars; oxygen is released as a by-product of this reaction. The process of photosynthesis is broken up into two main groups of reactions: the light reactions which require light energy to operate, and the Calvin cycle which specifically takes carbon dioxide and turns it into organic molecules.
Photosynthesis is the process by which organisms that contain the pigment chlorophyll convert light energy into chemical energy which can be stored in the molecular bonds of organic molecules (e.g., sugars). Photosynthesis powers almost all trophic chains and food webs on the Earth. The process of photosynthesis is broken up into two main groups of reactions: the light reactions which require light energy to operate, and the Calvin cycle which specifically takes carbon dioxide and turns it into organic molecules.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. Carbon dioxide is converted into sugars in a process called carbon fixation. Carbon fixation is an endothermic redox reaction, so photosynthesis needs to supply both a source of energy to drive this process, and the electrons needed to convert carbon dioxide into a carbohydrate.
The Carbon Cycle. There is a relationship between photosynthesis and cellular respiration. Cellular respiration releases carbon dioxide, which is used in photosynthesis. Photosynthesis in turn releases oxygen used in respiration. Animals and other heterotrophs depend on green organisms for organic food, energy, and oxygen. In the carbon cycle, organisms exchange carbon dioxide with the atmosphere
Earth’s Environmental Systems 85 Cellular Respiration Cellular respiration does not refer to breath-ing. Cellular respiration is the process by which organisms use oxygen to release the chemical energy of sugars and release CO 2 and water. In general terms, it is the chemical reverse of photosynthesis. Vocabulary law of conservation of matter, nutrient, biogeochemical cycle, primary producer, photosynthesis, consumer, decomposer, cellular respiration, eutrophication, nitrogen fixation LESSON 4 FOCUS Ask students if they are familiar with the words nutrition and nutrient.
The process by which plants make food is called photosynthesis. The word photosynthesis is made up of two words: Plants take in carbon dioxide from the air and water from the soil; put them together (in the presence of light energy and chlorophyll) to produce sugar (glucose) and oxygen. Chlorophyll is the green pigment found in plant
1 Photosynthesis – The process of capturing light energy and converting it to sugar energy, in the presence of chlorophyll using carbon dioxide and water. 2  Respiration – The process of metabolizing (burning) sugars to yield energy for growth, reproduction, and other life processes. In photosynthesis, the plant uses water and nutrients from the soil, and carbon dioxide from the air with the sun’s energy to create photosynthates. Oxygen is releases as a byproduct. Figure 2.
5. The carbon cycle represents the circulation and recycling of the chemical element carbon in nature as a result of the effect of living organisms. Photosynthetic organisms absorb carbon as carbon dioxide available in the atmosphere and the carbon atoms become part of glucose molecules. During the cellular respiration of these organisms, part of this organic material is consumed to generate ATP and, in this process, carbon dioxide is returned to the atmosphere. 