Worse, denial of their rights and freedoms would be made legal by a series of racist statutes, the Jim Crow laws. “Jim Crow” was a derisive slang term for a black man. It came to mean any state law passed in the South that established different rules for blacks and whites. Jim Crow laws were based on the theory of white supremacy and were a reaction to Reconstruction. Though seemingly rigid and complete, Jim Crow laws did not account for all of the discrimination blacks suffered. Unwritten rules barred blacks from white jobs in New York and kept them out of white stores in Los Angeles.
When did school desegregate? In the United States, the issue of segregation in schools was heard  by the Supreme Court, and ruled unconstitutional in a decision  handed down on May 17, 1954 in the famou … s Brown v.  Board of Education case. For a short time in the late 19th century, blacks did play in the majors, but this did not last long. The most prominent step in desegregating baseball was the signing of Jackie Robinson in 1947.
Beginning. in the 1890s, Georgia and other southern states passed a wide variety of Jim Crow laws that mandated racial segregation or separation in public facilities and effectively codified the region's tradition of white supremacy. 
One example of white resistance to desegregation was the closing of public schools and using the funds to provide private school vouchers to white parents. Another example wa … s passing laws that forbade any integrated schools from receiving state funds and allowed the governor to close those schools. In particular, there was no rule or law that stated blacks could not play in the major leagues. It was just a gentlemens' agreement-- an unwritten, unenforced rule that no one … dared to challenge. For a short time in the late 19th century, blacks did play in the majors, but this did not last long.
Segregation was never mandated by law in the Northern states, but a de facto system grew for schools, in which nearly all black students attended schools that were nearly all-black. In the South, white schools had only white pupils and teachers, while black schools had black teachers and only black students. All segregation was abolished by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It passed after civil rights demonstrations resulted in public opinion turning against enforced segregation, de facto segregation — segregation in fact, without sanction of law — persists in varying degrees to the present day.
How did segregation affect America? - Racial segregation was a system derived from the efforts of white Americans to keep African Americans in a subordinate status by denying them equal access to public facilities and ensuring that blacks lived apart from whites. - By the time the Supreme Court ruled in Dred Scott v. Sanford (1857) that African Americans were not U.S. citizens, northern whites had excluded blacks from seats on public transportation and barred their entry, except as servants, from most hotels and restaurants.
Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 after President Lyndon Johnson brokered an end to a Senate filibuster opposing the legislation. The new federal law was intended t … o end most forms of racial segregation and discrimination, in general. For a short time in the late 19th century, blacks did play in the majors, but this did not last long. The most prominent step in desegregating baseball was the signing of Jackie Robinson in 1947.
The repeal of separate but equal laws was a key focus of the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s. In Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954), the Supreme Court outlawed segregated public education facilities for blacks and whites at the state level. All segregation was abolished by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It passed after civil rights demonstrations resulted in public opinion turning against enforced segregation, de facto segregation — segregation in fact, without sanction of law — persists in varying degrees to the present day.
In particular, there was no rule or law that stated blacks could not play in the major leagues. It was just a gentlemens' agreement-- an unwritten, unenforced rule that no one … dared to challenge. For a short time in the late 19th century, blacks did play in the majors, but this did not last long. The most prominent step in desegregating baseball was the signing of Jackie Robinson in 1947. 1947 was considered the breakthrough year for baseball
Racial segregation became the law in most parts of the American South until the American Civil Rights Movement. These laws, known as Jim Crow laws, were similar to apartheid legislation in the forced segregation of facilities and services to African Americans and White Americans, and prohibition of intermarriage. All segregation was abolished by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It passed after civil rights demonstrations resulted in public opinion turning against enforced segregation, de facto segregation — segregation in fact, without sanction of law — persists in varying degrees to the present day.