Staten Island is the only borough in New York City that does not share a land border with another borough (Marble Hill in Manhattan is contiguous with the Bronx). The borough has a land border with Elizabeth and Bayonne, New Jersey on uninhabited Shooters Island. Staten Island has Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) bus lines and a MTA rapid transit line, the Staten Island Railway, which runs from the ferry terminal at St. George to Tottenville. Staten Island is the only borough that is not connected to the New York City Subway system. The free Staten Island Ferry connects the borough to Manhattan and is a popular tourist attraction, providing views of the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island, and Lower Manhattan
Richmond is now part of the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames, and has a population of 21,469 (consisting of North Richmond and South Richmond wards). It has a significant commercial and retail centre with a developed day and evening economy. The Museum of Richmond, in Richmond's Old Town Hall, close to Richmond Bridge, has displays relating to the history of Richmond, Ham, Petersham and Kew. Its rotating exhibitions, education activities and a programme of events cover the whole of the modern borough.
This shows that businesses are scattered throughout Richmond Borough with some concentration in the three key Centres and their surrounding areas: Richmond, Teddington and Twickenham. Just over 50 percent of the Borough’s businesses and 60 percent of the Borough’s B-space jobs are located in these areas. Richmond Employment Land and Premises Final Report | March 2013 11 majority of these losses are from small sites with incremental losses of B-space which collectively amount to 6 percent of the Borough’s B-space stock.
Richmond, New York City, named after the Duke of Richmond, son of King Charles II of England. Staten Island is the southernmost county in New York State-the third largest county (borough) among New York City's five counties covering 60.9 square miles. It is five miles from Manhattan and a half mile from Brooklyn. New Jersey on its western shore separated by the Arthur Kill waterway. From north to south Staten Island is 13.9 miles and from east to west 7.3 miles. Four major bridges and the Staten Island ferry connect the Island to surrounding areas.
In the southwest of the city, Staten Island is the southernmost part of both the city and state of New York, with Conference House Park at the southern tip of the island and the state. The borough is separated from New Jersey by the Arthur Kill and the Kill Van Kull, and from the rest of New York by New York Bay. Staten Island has Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) bus lines and a MTA rapid transit line, the Staten Island Railway, which runs from the ferry terminal at St. George to Tottenville. Staten Island is the only borough that is not connected to the New York City Subway system. The free Staten Island Ferry connects the borough to Manhattan and is a popular tourist attraction, providing views of the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island, and Lower Manhattan
Richmond is a suburban town in southwest London, 8.2 miles (13.2 km) west-southwest of Charing Cross. The town is on a meander of the River Thames, with a large number of parks and open spaces, including Richmond Park, and many protected conservation areas, which include much of Richmond Hill. The Museum of Richmond, in Richmond's Old Town Hall, close to Richmond Bridge, has displays relating to the history of Richmond, Ham, Petersham and Kew. Its rotating exhibitions, education activities and a programme of events cover the whole of the modern borough.
In 1975, the name of the Borough of Richmond was changed to the Borough of Staten Island. There are two dates on the flag. The county government was established in 1683. 
Richmond was formerly part of the ancient parish of Kingston upon Thames in the county of Surrey. In 1890 the town became a municipal borough, which was later extended to include Kew, Ham, Petersham and part of Mortlake (North Sheen). The Museum of Richmond, in Richmond's Old Town Hall, close to Richmond Bridge, has displays relating to the history of Richmond, Ham, Petersham and Kew. Its rotating exhibitions, education activities and a programme of events cover the whole of the modern borough.