In chiropractic, vertebral subluxation is a set of signs and symptoms of the spinal column. Those chiropractors who assert this concept (specifically, straight chiropractors) also add a visceral component to the definition. Chiropractors maintain that a vertebral subluxation complex is a dysfunctional biomechanical spinal segment which is fixated.
This nerve injury, or interference, is what doctors of chiropractic call the Vertebral Subluxation Complex - vertebral meaning relating to bones of the spine; subluxation meaning the improper motion or position of the vertebra; and complex meaning that the condition consists of many elements. The vertebral subluxation complex is the underlying cause of many healthcare problems. When one or more vertebrae lose their normal position and/or motion, they can interfere with the normal function of the nervous system that the vertebral bones were meant to house and protect.
Symptoms of a spinal subluxation in the neck may include neck pain or stiffness. Additional symptoms may include arm pain, arm numbness, or arm weakness. Symptoms of a spinal subluxation in the back may include back pain or stiffness. Additional symptoms may include leg pain, leg numbness, or leg weakness. Treatment for a spinal subluxation may include rest, a neck brace or back brace, physical therapy, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications for pain. Additional treatment may include surgery to realign the vertebra.
The most fundamental definition of a subluxation, or more accurately a “vertebral” subluxation, is a spinal bone that is partially dislocated or out of alignment in relation to the spinal bone above or below it. Chiropractors use the term subluxation a bit differently than medical practitioners. Not only do chiropractors recognize more subtle nuances of dislocation, but they also acknowledge the neurological impact that is associated with the loss of normal motion or position of spinal bones.
A vertebral subluxation is the result of spinal bones with improper motion or position affecting nerve communications between your brain and your body. sub = less than | luxation = dislocation. A vertebral subluxation is a stress response. Muscles go into spasm. Spinal bones lock up. And adjacent nerves are choked or chafed. This interferes with the control and regulation of your body. This garbles communications between the brain and parts of your body.
The specific focus of chiropractic practice is the chiropractic subluxation. Traditional chiropractic assumes that a vertebral subluxation or spinal joint dysfunction interferes with the body's function and its innate intelligence. Those chiropractors who assert this concept (specifically, straight chiropractors) also add a visceral component to the definition. Chiropractors maintain that a vertebral subluxation complex is a dysfunctional biomechanical spinal segment which is fixated.
The vertebral subluxation is the term applied to a vertebra which has lost its normal position and/or motion in relation to neighboring vertebrae. Vertebrae which do not function properly within the spinal framework generate mechanical stress. The only accurate way to determine if you suffer from subluxations is to receive a chiropractic evaluation. However, a number of signs and symptoms are commonly associated with the vertebral subluxation and include: 1  neck pain, tenderness, soreness and stiffness.
View ChiropracticVideos. The term subluxation is used by doctors of chiropractic to depict the altered position of the vertebra and subsequent functional loss, which determines the location for the spinal manipulation. Subluxation has been defined medically as ...a partial abnormal separation of the articular surfaces of a joint. 1. 
A person with a spinal subluxation has one vertebra in the spine that is out of alignment with the rest of the vertebrae. The vertebrae are bones that makeup the spine. Treatment for a spinal subluxation may include rest, a neck brace or back brace, physical therapy, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications for pain. Additional treatment may include surgery to realign the vertebra.