1 There are two basic types of vitamins in the food we eat: water-soluble and fat-soluble. 2  The water-soluble vitamins (B vitamins and vitamin C) are absorbed easily along with the water in the small intestine, where they then travel through the body via the blood vessels.
Vitamins are classified as either fat soluble (vitamins A, D, E and K) or water soluble (vitamins B and C). This difference between the two groups is very important. It determines how each vitamin acts within the body. The fat soluble vitamins are soluble in lipids (fats). These vitamins are usually absorbed in fat globules (called chylomicrons) that travel through the lymphatic system of the small intestines and into the general blood circulation
1 The water-soluble vitamins (B vitamins and vitamin C) are absorbed easily along with the water in the small intestine, where they then travel through the body via the blood vessels. 2  Fat-soluble vitamins (vitamins A, D, and K) are absorbed just like the fat mentioned above.
1 Water-soluble vitamins, such as vitamins B and C, dissolve in water in the small intestine and are then carried off to the body through the bloodstream. 2  If you consume too much of a water-soluble nutrient, the excess is excreted through your urine.
Absorption of most of the B vitamins happens further down in the small intestine, in the ileum. The other type of vitamin, the fat-soluble ones such as A, D, E and K, need to dissolve in fat before they can make it into the body. The process requires fat-digesting bile acids that come from the liver and live in the small intestine.
Get to know water-soluble nutrients. 1  Water-soluble vitamins, such as vitamins B and C, dissolve in water in the small intestine and are then carried off to the body through the bloodstream.
Water-soluble vitamins are found in many foods we eat, such as cereal grains, meat, poultry, eggs, fish, milk, legumes, citrus fruits and fresh vegetables. The B vitamins and vitamin C are absorbed along with water in the small intestine and then circulate through the blood.