When Chilli met T-Boz in 1991, she was auditioning for the C part of TLC. Fast-forward 20-plus years and she's making her special salad — chopped-up MorningStar veggie burgers, mixed greens, beets and different kinds of roasted nuts — for her friend Tionne T-Boz Watkins, who is getting over a cold. TLC: Still 'CrazySexyCool' 20 years later. When Chilli met T-Boz in 1991, she was auditioning for the C part of TLC. Fast forward 20 plus years and she's making her special salad for her friend Tionne T-Boz Watkins, who is getting over a cold. Post to Facebook.
The songs on the album are a blend of funk (Watkins), hip-hop (Lopes), and R&B (Thomas), similar to the new jack swing sound popularized by producer Teddy Riley in the late 1980s (and TLC's sound was sometimes cited as an example of the new jack swing genre). That year it was also listed as the #25 R&B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years. Worldwide they have sold more than 75 million records and are ranked as the best-selling American female group of all time. In 2012, TLC ranked 12th on VH1's 100 Greatest Women in Music, and as the number-one all-girl group.
TLC's T-Boz & Chilli: Life After Lisa. We are the black Laverne and Shirley, says Tionne T-Boz Watkins, giggling over a fried lobster dinner in Atlanta with her BFF, fellow TLC member Rozonda Chilli Thomas. T-Boz: I laugh at some of the things I say. Chilli: Doing the show gave us time to hang out together again, and it has been so much fun. I always say that we are gonna be here when we are 60, just sitting back laughing and reminiscing.
Jana Duggar has had enough of playing nanny, so she’s reportedly leaving 19 Kids and Counting to make her own way in the world. Two of her younger sisters have already left the nest, so she feels like it’s her turn to experience life without another Duggar tagging along. Treva Bowdoin. 
TLC. '19 Kids & Counting' is just the latest embarrassment that TLC won't learn from. It shouldn’t come as any surprise that TLC, the most socially irresponsible channel on the planet — and growing! — has yet to officially cancel 19 Kids and Counting, another of its dubious creations to find itself in trouble. The question, then, is when did TLC know they had a child molester on their hit TV show, which preaches family values? Beyond that, now that TLC — and everybody else — knows, why wasn’t there a swift cancelation of the sham that is 19 Kids and Counting?
At the end of 1999, TLC was ranked as the seventh most successful act of the 1990s by Billboard. In 2008, the group was inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine, at 56th place. That year it was also listed as the #25 R&B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years. Worldwide they have sold more than 75 million records and are ranked as the best-selling American female group of all time. In 2012, TLC ranked 12th on VH1's 100 Greatest Women in Music, and as the number-one all-girl group.
On a break since the April 2002 death of bandmate Lisa Left Eye Lopes, T-Boz, 35, and Chilli, 34, have returned with R U the Girl? , a UPN reality show in which contestants vie for a chance to perform live and record a single with TLC. T-Boz: I laugh at some of the things I say. Chilli: Doing the show gave us time to hang out together again, and it has been so much fun. I always say that we are gonna be here when we are 60, just sitting back laughing and reminiscing.
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spans R&B, hip hop funk and urban soul. TLC was originally composed of lead singer Tionne T-Boz Watkins, rapper Lisa Lopes and singer Crystal Jones. Jones was replaced by Rozonda Chilli Thomas in 1991; whilst Lopes died (and was subsequently not replaced) in 2002. That year it was also listed as the #25 R&B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years. Worldwide they have sold more than 75 million records and are ranked as the best-selling American female group of all time. In 2012, TLC ranked 12th on VH1's 100 Greatest Women in Music, and as the number-one all-girl group.
It's an open question as to whether the TLC network will keep the damaged Duggar family's show, 19 Kids and Counting, on the air now that eldest son Josh has admitted he was accused of molesting underage girls as a teenager. TLC cancels 'Here Comes Honey Boo Boo'. On Friday, she was fuming to TMZ that she wants to sue TLC about unfair treatment, since — so far — the Duggars still have a show, even though, she believes, the parents covered up Josh Duggar's confession to groping five girls 12 years ago in Springdale, Ark.