RNA viruses can be further classified according to the sense or polarity of their RNA into negative-sense and positive-sense, or ambisense RNA viruses. Positive-sense viral RNA is similar to mRNA and thus can be immediately translated by the host cell. Ambisense RNA viruses resemble negative-sense RNA viruses, except they also translate genes from the positive strand.
Viruses must first get into the cell before viral replication can occur. From the perspective of the virus, the purpose of viral replication is to allow production and survival of its kind. These viruses consist of two types, however both share the fact that replication is primarily in the cytoplasm, and that replication is not as dependent on the cell cycle as that of DNA viruses. This class of viruses is also one of the most-studied types of viruses, alongside the double-stranded
Purified RNA of a negative-sense virus is not infectious by itself as it needs to be transcribed into positive-sense RNA; each virion can be transcribed to several positive-sense RNAs. Ambisense RNA viruses resemble negative-sense RNA viruses, except they also translate genes from the positive strand.
By generating abundant copies of its genome and packaging these copies into viruses, the virus is able to continue infecting new hosts. Replication between viruses is greatly varied and depends on the type of genes involved in them. These viruses consist of two types, however both share the fact that replication is primarily in the cytoplasm, and that replication is not as dependent on the cell cycle as that of DNA viruses. This class of viruses is also one of the most-studied types of viruses, alongside the double-stranded
Negative-sense viral RNA is complementary to mRNA and thus must be converted to positive-sense RNA by an RNA polymerase before translation. As such, purified RNA of a positive-sense virus can directly cause infection though it may be less infectious than the whole virus particle. Ambisense RNA viruses resemble negative-sense RNA viruses, except they also translate genes from the positive strand.
An RNA virus is a virus that has RNA (ribonucleic acid) as its genetic material. Ambisense RNA viruses resemble negative-sense RNA viruses, except they also translate genes from the positive strand.
The host cell range is the types of cells that viruses can infect, and viruses have a limited host cell range: viruses can infect only specific cells and not all cells in the body, and the host cell range is define by the lock and key mechanism. In the lytic cell, the cell is taken over, produces viruses with its own machinery and organelles, and then dies, releasing more viruses. In the lysogenic cycle, the cell does not die but instead replicates with viral DNA/RNA in its own genome. A common example of a lysogenic virus is lambda phage.
Viral RNA replication depends on translation of the genome in cis, that is, a particular viral genome must be used first as a template for translation to become competent for RNA synthesis (Novak and Kirkegaard 1994). To examine the interplay between translation and RNA replication, we have used poliovirus as a model, because both in vitro and in vivo systems are available to dissect the viral cycle (Molla et al.
Section 6.3 Viruses: Structure, Function, and Uses. A virus is a small parasite that cannot reproduce by itself. Once it infects a susceptible cell, however, a virus can direct the cell machinery to produce more viruses. Most viruses have either RNA or DNA as their genetic material. The nucleic acid may be single-or double-stranded. What are central to the life cycle of a virus are the types of nucleic acids formed during its replication and the pathway by which mRNA is produced. The relation between the viral mRNA and the nucleic acid of the infectious particle is the basis of a simple means of classifying viruses.
In positive-stranded viruses, the genomic RNA serves as a template for both translation and RNA replication. Using poliovirus as a model, we examined the interaction between these two processes. We show that the RNA polymerase is unable to replicate RNA templates undergoing translation. To examine the interplay between translation and RNA replication, we have used poliovirus as a model, because both in vitro and in vivo systems are available to dissect the viral cycle (Molla et al.