Knowledge Management. This is a knowledge management site covering the theories, frameworks, models, tools, and supporting disciplines that are relevant to both the student and the practitioner. It is important to remember that knowledge management is not about managing knowledge for knowledge's sake. The overall objective is to create value and to leverage, improve, and refine the firm's competences and knowledge assets to meet organizational goals and targets.
Knowledge management involves data mining and some method of operation to push information to users. A knowledge management plan involves a survey of corporate goals and a close examination of the tools, both traditional and technical, that are required for addressing the needs of the company. The goal of a knowledge management system is to provide managers with the ability to organize and locate relevant content and the expertise required to address specific business tasks and projects.
Knowledge management is the name of a concept in which an enterprise consciously and comprehensively gathers, organizes, shares, and analyzes its knowledge in terms of resources, documents, and people skills. The goal of a knowledge management system is to provide managers with the ability to organize and locate relevant content and the expertise required to address specific business tasks and projects.
Knowledge management is an explicit system to use this capital. Source: Article 13 Co. Knowledge Management is the process of capturing value, knowledge and understanding of corporate information, using IT systems, in order to maintain, re-use and re-deploy that knowledge. Source: OIC Document Management A streamlined approach at improving knowledge sharing across the entire organization
Knowledge management is a discipline that promotes an integrated approach to identifying, capturing, evaluating, retrieving, and sharing all of an enterprise's information assets. Knowledge management is the process of capturing, distributing, and effectively using knowledge.. This definition has the virtue of being simple, stark, and to the point.
Knowledge Management is about systematically making use of the knowledge in the organization, and applying it to YOUR business problem; tapping into 'What your company knows' to help you deliver your business results. Knowledge is the ability to make effective decisions, and take effective action (based on a definition by Peter Senge). Part of the confusion between Knowledge Management and Information Management is almost certainly the lack, in the English language, of any distinction between Know-How, and Know-What.
From the introduction to; An Open Discussion of Knowledge Management, Brian (Bo)Newman, 1991. Knowledge Management is the collection of processes that govern the creation, dissemination, and utilization of knowledge. In one form or another, knowledge management has been around for a very long time. Practitioners have included philosophers, priests, teachers, politicians, scribes, Liberians, etc. 
by Rick Ladd. (Simi Valley, CA). Knowledge Management is a field that takes concepts of Library Science & Pedagogy and, utilizing the latest trends in Information Technology, seeks to facilitate the capture, transfer, and useful application of the collective knowledge of an organization or group. Click here to post comments. 
Knowledge management (KM) is the process of capturing, developing, sharing, and effectively using organizational knowledge. It refers to a multi-disciplinary approach to achieving organizational objectives by making the best use of knowledge. Knowledge management efforts have a long history, to include on-the-job discussions, formal apprenticeship, discussion forums, corporate libraries, professional training and mentoring programs.