The concentration of atmosphere gases varies depending on the atmosphere layers. The troposphere contains primarily nitrogen (78%) and oxygen (21%). The remaining 1% of the atmosphere is trace gases. The stratosphere contains a layer of relatively high concentrations of ozone. The lower part of the thermosphere is the ionosphere. The exosphere is the highest layer of the atmosphere. It extends up to 10,000 km (6,200 miles; 33,000,000 ft.) above the Earth. Satellites orbit the Earth in the exosphere.
1 The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 3  Various trace gases make up the remainder. 1 Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 2  Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. 3  Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward.
Many different gases make up the layers of the atmosphere, the majority being nitrogen and oxygen. These gases let rays from the sun reach the surface of the Earth and allow heat reflected off the surface of the Earth into the atmosphere. The Greenhouse Effect is the effect of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere trapping heat that is released from the Earth. The Enhanced Greenhouse Effect is the increase of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere resulting in more heat being trapped and so warming the surface of
Greenhouse Gases and The Atmosphere. The Earth’s atmosphere is divided into layers; the troposphere, the stratosphere, the mesosphere, the thermosphere, and the exosphere. Each layer has differences in density of gases and temperature. The Greenhouse Effect is the effect of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere trapping heat that is released from the Earth. The Enhanced Greenhouse Effect is the increase of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere resulting in more heat being trapped and so warming the surface of
Credit: Randy Russell, UCAR. The mesosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The mesosphere is directly above the stratosphere and below the thermosphere. It extends from about 50 to 85 km (31 to 53 miles) above our planet. Temperature decreases with height throughout the mesosphere. The coldest temperatures in Earth's atmosphere, about -90° C (-130° F), are found near the top of this layer. 
The general concepts found in this section are: 1  The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 1 Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 2  Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. 3  Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward.
1 Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 2  Various trace gases make up the remainder. 3  Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 1 Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 2  Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. 3  Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward.
Atmosphere layers. Earth's atmosphere is divided into five main layers, the exosphere, the thermosphere, the mesosphere, the stratosphere and the troposphere. The atmosphere thins out in each higher layer until the gases dissipate in space. Nearly all of the water vapor and dust in the atmosphere are in this layer and that is why clouds are found here. The stratosphere is the second layer. It starts above the troposphere and ends about 31 miles (50 km) above ground.
Composition of Earth's atmosphere by volume. The lower pie represents the trace gases that together compose about 0.038% of the atmosphere (0.043% with CO 2 at 2014 concentration). The numbers are from a variety of years (mainly 1987, with CO 2 and methane from 2009) and do not represent any single source. Fifty percent of the total mass of the atmosphere is located in the lower 5.6 km (18,000 ft) of the troposphere. It is primarily composed of nitrogen (78%) and oxygen (21%) with only small concentrations of other trace gases.