Currently, the most common tuning fork sounds the note of A = 440 Hz, because this is the standard concert pitch, which is used as tuning note by some orchestras, it being the pitch of the violin's second string, the first string of the viola, and an octave above the first string of the cello, all played open. Without the resonator the sound of a tuning fork is very faint. The reason for this is that the sound waves produced by each fork prong are 180° out of phase with the other, so at a distance from the fork they interfere and largely cancel each other out.
What are Tuning Fork Sessions? Your body can get out of tune just like a piano. So a Tuning Fork Session uses the same tuning forks that you would use to tune a piano. It is a natural method of healing using tuning forks based on the sonic ratios inherent in nature. 
A tuning fork is an acoustic resonator in the form of a two-pronged fork with the prongs (tines) formed from a U-shaped bar of elastic metal (usually steel). Without the resonator the sound of a tuning fork is very faint. The reason for this is that the sound waves produced by each fork prong are 180° out of phase with the other, so at a distance from the fork they interfere and largely cancel each other out.
tuning fork a device that produces harmonic vibration when its two prongs are struck; used to test hearing and bone conduction. See tuning fork tests. Steel or magnesium-alloy instrument roughly resembling a two-pronged fork, the vibrations of the prongs of which, when struck, give a musical tone of restricted bandwidth; used to test hearing and vibratory sensations.
A tuning fork is a sound resonator which is a two-pronged fork. The prongs, called tines, are made from a U-shaped bar of metal (usually steel). This bar of metal can move freely. It resonates at a specific constant pitch when set vibrating by striking it against an object. The tuning fork was invented in 1711 by British musician John Shore. He was the Sergeant Trumpeter to the court, who had musical parts written for him by the composers George Frideric Handel and Henry Purcell.
Playing a tuning fork is relatively easy: Taking care not to hold it by the prongs, you slap it against something hard like a tabletop -- or even the bottom of your shoe -- and then listen as it rings for about 5 seconds. Hit it hard or hit it soft, the note is always the same. It seems almost magical. 
1 Our tuning forks are made in the USA from a special Aluminum Alloy that is heat treated giving them a very pure tone. 2  The single fundamental frequency will remain constant for many years and the non-tarnishing material will not rust or corrode. 3  They tune each tuning fork by hand to an accuracy of .25% or better. 
To understand how tuning forks work, visualize the amount of air that exists between the two prongs. Then, imagine the dramatic difference in the number of molecules per square millimeter. There is a direct relationship between the size of the tuning fork and the pitch it produces. For example, a tuning fork that can produce 4,000 cycles per second will sound like one of the highest keys on a piano. It will also be very small in size and diameter. It will also have relatively short prongs. Each tuning fork has a base, which can be either flat or round. All tuning forks have two prongs, or tines, and they are always made from a metal substance in order to best conduct the emitted vibrations.
When struck, the two prongs of the tuning fork vibrate uniformly, producing a very clean soundwave. The pitch (or frequency) of the sound wave is determined by the length of the prongs. If you analyse the sound wave produced from a tuning fork, you will find that it is a perfect sine wave formation. For some interesting scientific animations of tuning fork soundwaves, visit this page.
tuning fork a device that produces harmonic vibration when its two prongs are struck; used to test hearing and bone conduction. See tuning fork tests. 