Calderas are some of the most spectacular features on Earth. They are large volcanic craters that form by two different methods: 1) an explosive volcanic eruption; or, 2) collapse of surface rock into an empty magma chamber. The image at right is a satellite view of one of the most famous calderas-Crater Lake in Oregon. Centuries of rain and snow filled the caldera creating Crater Lake. With a depth of 1932 feet (589 meters), Crater Lake is the deepest lake in the United States and the seventh deepest lake in the world. Collapse calderas form when a large magma chamber is emptied by a volcanic eruption or by subsurface magma movement. The unsupported rock that forms the roof of the magma chamber then collapses to form a large crater. Crater Lake and many other calderas are thought to have formed by this process
As the magma chamber empties, the center of the volcano within the ring fracture begins to collapse. The collapse may occur as the result of a single cataclysmic eruption, or it may occur in stages as the result of a series of eruptions. The total area that collapses may be hundreds or thousands of square kilometers. If volcanic activity continues, the center of the caldera may be uplifted in the form of a resurgent dome such as is seen at Cerro Galan, Galán Lake, Toba, yellowstone., etc by subsequent intrusion of. Magma a silicic or rhyolitic caldera may erupt hundreds or even thousands of cubic kilometers of material in a single. event
CALDERAS. When an erupting volcano empties a shallow-level magma chamber, the edifice of the volcano may collapse into the voided reservoir, thus forming a steep, bowl-shaped depression called a caldera (Spanish for kettle or cauldron). These features are highly variable in size, ranging from 1-100 km in diameter. They are similar to Crater-Lake type calderas in that they are also generated by crustal collapse above shallow magma chambers. Resurgent calderas, however, are too large to have been associated with a Crater-Lake type central volcano, like Mt. Mazama.
Best Answer: I am going to assume you mean Caldera. It forms in essentially 3 basic steps. 1) Magma comes to the surface and creates a magma chamber. The volcano forms the way they do (successive eruptions) 2) After many millions of years the magma and pressure subsides in the magma chamber. This means there is less pressure under the volcano and the volcanoe starts to collapse 3) The sides of the volcano collapse and may/may not become filled with water. Here is an excerpt: A caldera is a volcanic feature formed by the collapse of land following a volcanic eruption. They are often confused with volcanic craters. The word 'caldera' comes from the Spanish language, meaning cauldron.
A caldera is a large crater, up to 50 kilometers, that can form when the summit or side of a volcano collapses into the magma chamber during of after an explosion. A crater is … an indentation, only up to 1 kilometer in diameter, that forms around the central vent at the summit of a volcano. The main difference is size. Answer by PPPPLLLL. Confidence votes 304. A caldera is a large depression in a volcano. Most calderas form in one of two ways: by collapse of the top of a composite volcano after the magma chamber is drained.
Share to: A caldera is a large crater, up to 50 kilometers, that can form when the summit or side of a volcano collapses into the magma chamber during of after an explosion. A crater is … an indentation, only up to 1 kilometer in diameter, that forms around the central vent at the summit of a volcano. The main difference is size. A caldera is a large depression in a volcano. Most calderas form in one of two ways: by collapse of the top of a composite volcano after the magma chamber is drained. 19 people found this useful.
A caldera is a cauldron-like volcanic feature on large central volcanoes, a special sort of volcanic crater (from one to several kilometers in diameter), formed when a magma chamber was emptied. The depression then originated either in very big explosive eruptions or in erosion and collapse of the magma chamber roof. If volcanic activity continues, the center of the caldera may be uplifted in the form of a resurgent dome such as is seen at Cerro Galan, Galán Lake, Toba, yellowstone., etc by subsequent intrusion of. Magma a silicic or rhyolitic caldera may erupt hundreds or even thousands of cubic kilometers of material in a single. event