Plants have two different types of 'transport' tissue. Xylem transports water and solutes from the roots to the leaves, phloem transports food from the leaves to the rest of the plant. Plant transport. No heart, no blood and no circulation, but plants do need a transport system to move food, water and minerals around. They use two different systems – xylem moves water and solutes from the roots to the leaves – phloem moves food substances from
Plants have two systems for the transportation of substances-using two different types of transport tissue. Xylem transports water and solutes from the roots to the leaves, while phloem transports food from the leaves to the rest of the plant. Transpiration is the process by which water evaporates from the leaves, which results in more water being drawn up from the roots.
Xylem, and phloem are the two types of tissue that make up the vascular tissue system. Xylem: Xylem acts as a conduit is responsible for moving water and minerals from theroots up the stem to the shoot system where these substances are used forphotosynthesis. 
Seed plants contain 2 types of vascular tissue (xylem & phloem) to help transport water, minerals, & food throughout the root & shoot systems. Plant cells have several specialized structures including a central vacuole for storage, plastids for storage of pigments, and a thick cell wall of cellulose. Plants have 3 tissue systems --- ground, dermal, and vascular tissues. Plant tissues make up the main organs of a plant --- root, stem, leaf, & flower.
Xylem. Xylem vessels are involved in the movement of water through a plant-from its roots to its leaves via the stem. During this process: Water is absorbed from the soil through root hair cells. Xylem transports water and solutes from the roots to the leaves, while phloem transports food from the leaves to the rest of the plant. Transpiration is the process by which water evaporates from the leaves, which results in more water being drawn up from the roots.
In the centre of the root, is the beginning of the transport system of the plant, which is made of two main transport tissues, the xylem tissue and the phloem tissue. The diagram below shows a transverse section through a root. Just like humans, plants have a transport system of vessels and cells that transports water, minerals and other nutrients around the plant.
The vascular tissue system is important in transport. The vascular tissue system is composed of the xylem (transport of water and dissolved minerals) and phloem (transport of food-usually sucrose and other sugars-, nitrogen containing compounds, and hormones). The xylem and phloem in the primary plant body are usually closely associated in the form of vascular bundles. Epidermis: The epidermis consists of a single layer of cells that covers the majority of young plants. The epidermis is present throughout the life of plants that exhibit only primary growth. Primary growth refers to cells and tissues that originate from the apical meristems.
Plant tissues are categorized broadly into three tissue systems: the epidermis, the ground tissue, and the vascular tissue. 1  Epidermis-Cells forming the outer surface of the leaves and of the young plant body. 2  Vascular tissue-The primary components of vascular tissue are the xylem and phloem. 1 Vascular tissue-The primary components of vascular tissue are the xylem and phloem. 2  These transport fluid and nutrients internally. 3  Ground tissue-Ground tissue is less differentiated than other tissues. 4  Ground tissue manufactures nutrients by photosynthesis and stores reserve nutrients.
Meristems: There are 3 main types of meristematic tissue in vascular seed plants ---- apical, intercalary, & lateral meristems. Apical Meristem occur at the tips of roots and shoots and are responsible for the length-wise extension of the plant body known as primary growth. Plants have 3 tissue systems --- ground, dermal, and vascular tissues. Plant tissues make up the main organs of a plant --- root, stem, leaf, & flower.