Similar to sprains, a strain may be a simple stretch in your muscle or tendon, or it may be a partial or complete tear in the muscle-and-tendon combination. Typical symptoms of a strain include pain, muscle spasm, muscle weakness, swelling, inflammation, and cramping. A strain is an injury to a muscle and/or tendons. Tendons are fibrous cords of tissue that attach muscles to the bone. Strains often occur in your foot, leg (typically the hamstring) or back.
Muscle pain, also called myalgia, refers to pain or discomfort in any muscle of the body. Muscles include skeletal muscles that are attached to bones and contract to move your body. Although we often think of skeletal muscle pain, problems with other kinds of muscle, such as smooth muscle and cardiac muscle, can also cause pain. Muscle pain can also be caused by serious diseases, disorders and conditions, such as fibromyalgia, infections and dermatomyositis, which is an inflammatory muscle disease. Muscle pain can be a symptom of a serious disease, disorder or condition, such as a severe muscle tear or infection.
Myofascial pain syndrome (MPS) is a fancy way to describe muscle pain. It refers to pain and inflammation in the body's soft tissues. MPS is a chronic condition that affects the fascia (connective tissue that covers the muscles). It may involve either a single muscle or a muscle group. In some cases, the area where a person experiences the pain may not be where the myofascial pain generator is located. Arthritis that affects your “shock absorbers” is the cause of pain and disability in knee and hip joints that can lead to surgery. Click here. Learn the symptoms, causes, and treatments of piriformis syndrome. The causes of back pain can be complex -- accidents, muscle strains, sports injuries.
1 Muscle pain is a somatic pain. 2  Chronic muscle pain is more than a strained muscle. 3  Your muscles may have a chronic muscle spasm that causes them to be tense. 4  This form of muscle overload can cause long-lasting pain, especially in the back. 1 Chronic muscle pain is more than a strained muscle. 2  Your muscles may have a chronic muscle spasm that causes them to be tense. 3
The medical term for muscle pain is myalgia. Muscle pain may arise due to injury or overexertion, infections of the soft tissues, or inflammatory conditions. A number of conditions can be associated with generalized aches and pain, such as influenza, that are perceived to be muscle pain.
Menstrual cramps are a type of smooth muscle pain in the uterus. Temporary skeletal muscle pain is often caused by minor muscle strain due to an awkward movement or overuse. This type of pain often involves just one or very few muscles and is relatively acute and intense. Muscle pain can also be caused by serious diseases, disorders and conditions, such as fibromyalgia, infections and dermatomyositis, which is an inflammatory muscle disease. Muscle pain can be a symptom of a serious disease, disorder or condition, such as a severe muscle tear or infection.
Spasmodic redirects here. For the British literary movement, see Spasmodic poets. A spasm is a sudden, involuntary contraction of a muscle, a group of muscles, or a hollow organ such as a heart, or a similarly sudden contraction of an orifice. It most commonly refers to a muscle cramp which is often accompanied by a sudden burst of pain, but is usually harmless and ceases after a few minutes. 
The most common causes of muscle pain are tension, stress, overuse and minor injuries. This type of pain is usually localized, affecting just one or more muscles or parts of your body. Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. It's more often the result of an infection, an illness or a side effect of a medication. Common causes of muscle pain include: 1  Chronic exertional compartment syndrome. 2  Chronic fatigue syndrome. 3  Claudication
You may feel muscle pain in a specific muscle of the body, such as a back muscle or leg muscle, or you may feel more diffuse muscle pain all over, such as when you have the flu (influenza). A person with chest pain who is having a heart attack or angina is feeling cardiac muscle pain. Muscle pain can also be caused by serious diseases, disorders and conditions, such as fibromyalgia, infections and dermatomyositis, which is an inflammatory muscle disease. Muscle pain can be a symptom of a serious disease, disorder or condition, such as a severe muscle tear or infection.
1 Muscle pain can be caused by an injury, an autoimmune reaction, loss of blood flow to the muscle, infection, or a tumor. 2  The pain can also include muscle spasms and cramps. 3  Tendon and ligament pain: Pains in the tendons or ligaments are often caused by injuries, including sprains. Some of the more common types of pain include: 1  Bone pain: This is usually deep, penetrating, or dull. 2  It most commonly results from injury. 3  It is important to be sure that the pain is not related to a fracture or tumor. 4  Muscle pain: This is often less intense than bone pain, but it can still be debilitating.