Humanism is a non-theistic belief system and, as such, it could be a sub-category of Religion only if that term is defined to mean Religion and (any) belief system . This is the case in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on freedom of religion and beliefs. Secular humanism does not prescribe a specific theory of morality or code of ethics. As stated by the Council for Secular Humanism, It should be noted that Secular Humanism is not so much a specific morality as it is a method for the explanation and discovery of rational moral principles.
Secular Humanism is defined as an attempt to function as a civilized, secular society with the exclusion of God and any type of absolute moral truth or principles. The primary focus of Humanism is to exclude any kind of supernatural answers from the questions of life. Secular Humanism is void of God or anything supernatural. Therefore, most secularists argue that secular humanism is not a religion. This predominant view holds that secular beliefs are supported by science/reason, and religious beliefs are supported by faith/feelings. Secular humanists place religion outside science.
A Secular Humanist Definition. We can now attempt our definition of secular humanism. Secular humanism begins with atheism (absence of belief in a deity) and agnosticism or skepticism (epistemological caution that rejects the transcendent as such due to a lack of evidence). Secular Humanism’s Unique Selling Proposition. Coined four decades ago by advertising executive Rosser Reeves, “unique selling proposition” means a distinctive and meaningful characteristic that only one among a cluster of competitors exhibits. It’s the thing that makes your message or product different from any other.
Christian Humanism is defined by Webster's Third New International Dictionary as a philosophy advocating the self-fulfillment of man within the framework of Christian principles.. This more human-oriented faith is largely a product of the Renaissance and is a part of what made up Renaissance humanism. Finally, Religious Humanism is faith in action.. In his essay The Faith of a Humanist, UU Minister Kenneth Phifer declares -. Now, while Secular Humanists may agree with much of what Religious Humanists do, they deny that this activity is properly called religious.. This isn't a mere semantic debate.
Humanism. Humanism is a philosophical system of thought that focuses on human value, thoughts, and actions. It is atheistic. Humans are considered basically good and rational creatures who can improve themselves and others through natural human abilities of reason and action. Secular Humanism is a late development emphasizing objectivity, human reason, and human standards that govern art, economics, ethics, and belief. As such, no deity is acknowledged. Tweet. About The Author Matt Slick is the President and Founder of the Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry.
Secular Humanism, then, can be defined as a religious worldview based on atheism, naturalism, evolution, and ethical relativism. But this definition is merely the tip of the iceberg. Both of these are well and good, but what we are seeking is a definition of the worldview known as Secular Humanism. First, Secular Humanism is a worldview. That is, it is a set of beliefs through which one interprets all of reality—something like a pair of glasses.
Secular humanism refers to a branch of humanism that is based on exclusively secular principles. It is often associated with atheism and agnosticism, however, it should be noted that not all atheists and agnostics identify as secular humanists. Secular humanism aims to establish moral principles conducive to the freedom and well-being of humans based on ethical reasoning that is independent of all alleged supernatural sources of morality.
Secular humanism posits that human beings are capable of being ethical and moral without religion or a god. It does not, however, assume that humans are either inherently evil or innately good, nor does it present humans as being superior to nature. Secular humanism does not prescribe a specific theory of morality or code of ethics. As stated by the Council for Secular Humanism, It should be noted that Secular Humanism is not so much a specific morality as it is a method for the explanation and discovery of rational moral principles.
any system or mode of thought or action in which human interests, values, or dignity predominate.[1]. Others may think of a liberal arts education. Both of these are well and good, but what we are seeking is a definition of the worldview known as Secular Humanism. First, Secular Humanism is a worldview. That is, it is a set of beliefs through which one interprets all of reality—something like a pair of glasses. Second, Secular Humanism is a religious worldview.[2] Do not let the word “secular” mislead you