By 1956,  Morocco had regained its independence from both France and Spain;  by 1957, Sultan Mohammed V was proclaimed king of Morocco. The French granted full independence to Morocco and Tunisia in 1956 because Algeria was home to one million French settlers,France chose to keep control there. + 3 others found this useful.
Then, in 1956, the French left Morocco and Morocco became independent (HISTORY OF MOROCCO, Historyworld.net; Independence Movements: Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Madagascar to 1947, Fsmitha.com; Morocco, Encyclopedia Britannica Online). Beginning in the year of 1920, nationalism began to arise among the people of Morocco. While Morocco was under control of France and Spain, nationalist made several attempts to get independence for their country.
On 20 March 1956, Tunisia gained its independence from France after two years of negotiations between the French and the Neo-Destour (“New Constitution”) party, which was backed by the trade unions. 
After 44 years of colonization Morocco was finally an independent country again (History of Morocco to the Present Day, Moroccansands.com). Although Morocco gained its independence in 1956, Spain still colonizes two parts of Morocco to this day. The cities of Ceuta and Melilla and a small chain of islands of the coast in the Atlantic ocean are still under the control of Spain. Beginning in the year of 1920, nationalism began to arise among the people of Morocco. While Morocco was under control of France and Spain, nationalist made several attempts to get independence for their country.
In 1953 France deposed the nationalist leader and sultan Mohammed V ibn Yusuf, but both nationalist and religious groups called for his return. France capitulated, and Mohammed V returned in 1955. On 2 March 1956 French Morocco gained independence. Spanish Morocco, except for the two enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla, gained independence in April 1956. Mohammed V was succeeded by his son, Hasan II ibn Mohammed, on his death in 1961. Morocco became a constitutional monarchy in 1977.
It was on March 2, 1956 that Morocco was able to gain its independence from the French Protectorate. After the French left Morocco, the Spanish did the same. In April, the region of Morocco under the Spanish protectorate was freed. Beginning in the year of 1920, nationalism began to arise among the people of Morocco. While Morocco was under control of France and Spain, nationalist made several attempts to get independence for their country.
In 1953, the French exiled the revered Sultan Mohammed V, and replaced him with the Mohammed Ben Aarafa, who was widely opposed by the people. In wake of the public outcry, the French had to allow the sultan to return to Morocco. In 1956, the king proclaimed freedom for Morocco from France. On November 18, the people of Morocco commemorate the sacrifices of their ancestors and the royal family, and the return of Sultan Mohammed V, from his exile in Madagascar in 1956.
In 1956, after 44 years of French rule, Morocco regained independence from France, and shortly afterward regained most of the territories under Spanish control. Recognition by the United Kingdom of France's  sphere of influence  in Morocco in the 1904 Entente Cordiale provoked a German reaction; the crisis of 1905–1906 was resolved at the Algeciras Conference (1906), which formalized France's special position and entrusted policing of Morocco jointly to France and Spain.
The king had been on exile to Madagascar when Morocco was a French protector. On this day the king proclaimed the freedom of Morocco from France and Spain who colonized the country for 44 years. On November 18, the people of Morocco commemorate the sacrifices of their ancestors and the royal family, and the return of Sultan Mohammed V, from his exile in Madagascar in 1956.