Gamma decay. After a nucleus undergoes alpha or beta decay, it is often left in an excited state with excess energy. Just as an electron can move to a lower energy state by emitting a photon somewhere in the ultraviolet to infrared range, an atomic nucleus loses energy by emitting a gamma ray.
An unstable nucleus is one that is Radioactive and decays by emission of alpha particles, beta+ particles, beta-particles, protons or neutrons, or by splitting into two almos … t equal pieces (nuclear fission) until the nucleus is stable. When certain combinations of protons and neutrons form an atomic nucleus, there is the possibility that the nucleus may be unstable. There may be too few or too many protons for the number of neutrons present, or there may be too few or too many neutrons for the number of protons present.
Alpha decay occurs when the nucleus ejects an alpha particle (helium nucleus). This is the most common process of emitting nucleons, but in rarer types of decays, nuclei can eject protons, or in the case of cluster decay specific nuclei of other elements. The product is called the daughter nuclide. In some decays, the parent and the daughter nuclides are different chemical elements, and thus the decay process results in the creation of an atom of a different element. This is known as a nuclear transmutation.
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting radiation. A material that spontaneously emits such radiation — which includes alpha particles, beta particles, gamma rays and conversion electrons — is considered radioactive. The product is called the daughter nuclide. In some decays, the parent and the daughter nuclides are different chemical elements, and thus the decay process results in the creation of an atom of a different element. This is known as a nuclear transmutation.
The emissions from an unstable atom's nucleus, as it decays, can be in the form of alpha, beta or gamma radiation. When an atom decays, it changes into another isotope, or form, of the same element or into a completely different element, in a process called transmutation. 
The image above indicates that radium-226 has a half-life of 1,602 years. So every 1,602 years approximately half of the radium-226 atoms in a sample decay and change to radon-222 (the next element in the decay chain). Note that uranium, radium and lead are metals, while radon is an inert gas under normal conditions. U.S. EPA Education Activities: Evolution of a Radioactive Atom Page 23 of 44 Directions 1. Start with a vocabulary activity if students are not familiar with radiation and the terms used in this activity, or provide students with the terms and definitions. 2.
Radioactive decay occurs in unstable atomic nuclei – that is, ones that don’t have enough binding energy to hold the nucleus together due to an excess of either protons or neutrons. It comes in three main types – named alpha, beta and gamma for the first three letters of the Greek alphabet. Alpha decay. After a nucleus undergoes alpha or beta decay, it is often left in an excited state with excess energy. Just as an electron can move to a lower energy state by emitting a photon somewhere in the ultraviolet to infrared range, an atomic nucleus loses energy by emitting a gamma ray.
Gamma decay. After a nucleus undergoes alpha or beta decay, it is often left in an excited state with excess energy. Just as an electron can move to a lower energy state by emitting a photon somewhere in the ultraviolet to infrared range, an atomic nucleus loses energy by emitting a gamma ray. The half-life of a radioactive isotope is the time after which, on average, half of the original material will have decayed. After two half-lives, half of that will have decayed again and a quarter of the original material will remain, and so on.
When a nucleus is unstable it has either too many or too few neutrons in the nucleus. This is what causes nuclear decay as the nucleus needs to have the correct ratio of neutr … ons to protons to be stable. It may be triggered by an outside force, such as a colliding particle, or simply by chance. When certain combinations of protons and neutrons form an atomic nucleus, there is the possibility that the nucleus may be unstable. There may be too few or too many protons for the number of neutrons present, or there may be too few or too many neutrons for the number of protons present.
Alpha decay is one type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms (or decays) into an atom with a mass number decreased by 4 and atomic number decreased by 2. The product is called the daughter nuclide. In some decays, the parent and the daughter nuclides are different chemical elements, and thus the decay process results in the creation of an atom of a different element. This is known as a nuclear transmutation.