Homozygous recessive just means having two of the same recessive alleles. Remember, recessive alleles are masked by dominant alleles. So if a heterozygous genotype is present, one that has dominant and recessives alleles, then the recessive trait will not be seen.
(1) A recessive allele or trait. (2) An organism whose recessive trait is discernible or expressed. Supplement. In genetics, a recessive gene or allele is one in which the effect is not tangible, or is masked by the effects of the dominant gene. The recessive trait may be expressed when the recessive genes are in homozygous condition or when the dominant gene is not present.
A recessive trait is the opposite of a dominant trait. A dominant trait is the trait that overpowers another trait-represented by a capital letter.
The noun RECESSIVE has 1 sense: 1. an allele that produces its characteristic phenotype only when its paired allele is identical. Familiarity information: RECESSIVE used as a noun is very rare.
Another way to define a recessive trait is one that is never expressed by the heterozygous genotype. For example, the heterozygous genotype for earlobe type (Ee) produces detached earlobes because the dominant allele (E) hides the effects of the recessive allele (e).
Autosomal recessive is one of several ways that a trait, disorder, or disease can be passed down through families. An autosomal recessive disorder means two copies of an abnormal gene must be present in order for the disease or trait to develop.
Information. Inheriting a specific disease, condition, or trait depends on the type of chromosome that is affected (autosomal or sex chromosome). It also depends on whether the trait is dominant or recessive. A mutation in a gene on one of the first 22 nonsex chromosomes can lead to an autosomal disorder.
Recessive trait. Definition. noun. (genetics) A genetic trait that results from the expression of the two recessive alleles. Supplement. When the dominant allele is lacking or when the two alleles present are both recessive, their expression results in a r