The most abundant gas is water vapor (H2O), followed by carbon dioxide (CO2), and sulfur dioxide (SO2). Secondary gases are also commonly emitted from volcanoes and include hydrogen sulfide (H2S), hydrogen (H), carbon monoxide (CO), hydrogen chloride (HCl), hydrogen fluoride (HF), and helium (He). The greatest potential hazards to humans, animals and agriculture are SO2, CO2 and HF. However, volcanic gases reach the stratosphere, a layer in the atmosphere from about 10 km to about 50 km in altitude, during large eruptions. This relationship is complicated by the fact that the elevation between the volcano summit and the distance to the troposphere/stratosphere decreases with latitude.
The principal components of volcanic gases are water vapor (H 2 O), carbon dioxide (CO 2), sulfur either as sulfur dioxide (SO 2) (high-temperature volcanic gases) or hydrogen sulfide (H 2 S) (low-temperature volcanic gases), nitrogen, argon, helium, neon, methane, carbon monoxide and hydrogen. Volcanic gases entering the atmosphere with dust and tephra during eruption of volcano Augustine, 2006.
The most abundant gas released from volcanic eruptions is water vapor. Other emitted gases include carbon dioxide (CO 2), sulfur dioxide (SO 2), hydrogen sulfide (H 2 S), carbon monoxide (CO), hydrogen chloride (HCl), and hydrogen fluoride (HF). 
GAS COMPOSITION. Other than free oxygen, generated by photosynthesis, all atmospheric gases were derived from inside the earth and released by volcanic eruptions. The gaseous portion of magma varies from ~1 to 5% of the total weight. Water vapor constitutes 70-90%
Answer by Jaydak. Confidence votes 35. Volcanic eruptions release mostly the gases that make up what environmentalists call acid rain -- water vapor (steam), with carbon dioxide (CO2) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) being the next two most common. gases vary considerably from volcano to volcano, some may emit more water vapour and chlorine and these gases can represent more than 60% of the eruption.
Other gases include carbon dioxide (CO2), sulfur dioxide (SO2), hydrochloric acid (HCl), hydrogen fluoride (HF), hydrogen sulfide (H2S), carbon monoxide (CO), hydrogen gas (H2), NH3, methane (CH4), and SiF4. Some of these gases are transported away from the eruption on ash particles while others form salts and aerosols. Volcanic gases are also produced when water is heated by magma. Gases also escape from pyroclastic flows, lahars, and lava flows, and may also be produced from burning vegetation.
An erupting volcano will release gases, tephra, and heat into the atmosphere. The largest portion of gases released into the atmosphere is water vapor. Some of these gases are transported away from the eruption on ash particles while others form salts and aerosols. Volcanic gases are also produced when water is heated by magma. Gases also escape from pyroclastic flows, lahars, and lava flows, and may also be produced from burning vegetation.
Volcanic eruptions emit water vapor and toxic gases into the atmosphere. Learn about the gases emitted from an erupting volcano, such as carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, hydrochloric acid and carbon monoxide and their effects in this video lesson. The gases that are released during a volcanic eruption come from deep within the Earth. They are dissolved in magma, which are hot molten rock found in the deeper layers of Earth. Because this melted rock is less dense than the rocks surrounding it, it rises up toward the Earth's surface.
Once a volcano erupts, gases are emitted and released into the atmosphere. During large eruptions, gases have actually caused global climate change. In other systems, gases are emitted continuously into the atmosphere from soils, volcanic vents, fumaroles and hydrothermal deposits. However, volcanic gases reach the stratosphere, a layer in the atmosphere from about 10 km to about 50 km in altitude, during large eruptions. This relationship is complicated by the fact that the elevation between the volcano summit and the distance to the troposphere/stratosphere decreases with latitude.