Although they work an average of forty hours a week, their hours are often irregular. The salary for food processing technicians varies according to skill, experience, and level of education, but ranges from $25,000 to $35,000 per year. Benefits generally include health insurance, paid vacations and holidays, and pension plans. It is possible to become a food processing technician through on-the-job training. Most employers, however, prefer to hire beginners who have some college or technical training in food processing, laboratory science, or related fields.
Salary. The average starting salary for a process technician is approximately $30,000 per year, while more experienced technicians can expect to earn an average annual salary of approximately $45,000. Some process technicians can earn salaries that are significantly higher, based on increased education and experience
Education and Training Requirements. It is possible to become a food processing technician through on-the-job training. Most employers, however, prefer to hire beginners who have some college or technical training in food processing, laboratory science, or related fields.
Pest Route Technician. Make your service and sales expertise work for you with Ecolab Pest Elimination, honored in Food Processing Magazine as the Top Pest Management Company.... 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Ecolab jobs in San Jose, CA-San Jose jobs. 2  Salary Search: Pest Route Technician salaries in San Jose, CA. Around the world businesses in foodservice, food processing, hospitality, healthcare, industrial, and oil and gas markets choose Ecolab products and services to...
Food Technologist Salary. (United States). The average salary for a Food Technologist is $50,007 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Process Improvement and Project Management. 
(United Kingdom). A Food Technologist earns an average salary of £24,928 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 10 years in this field. For the first five to ten years in this position, pay increases somewhat, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. £18,433 - £33,935
Earnings and Benefits. The salary for food processing technicians varies according to skill, experience, and level of education, but ranges from $25,000 to $35,000 per year. Benefits generally include health insurance, paid vacations and holidays, and pension plans. It is possible to become a food processing technician through on-the-job training. Most employers, however, prefer to hire beginners who have some college or technical training in food processing, laboratory science, or related fields.
Salary Information. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), food scientist and technologist positions are expected to grow 11% from 2012-2022, which is about average compared to all other job sectors (www.bls.gov). Food scientists and technologists earned a median annual wage of $59,630 in May 2013, stated the BLS. 
Food Scientist. With a median salary of around $58,000 per year reported as of May 2011, a food scientist career might be worth considering. This job is research-oriented and requires a bachelor's degree for most positions, according to the BLS. As of 2014, 26% of food science technicians worked for food manufacturing companies, while 19% were employed by educational institutions. The median annual salary for food science technicians was about $35,140 as of May 2014