Your resting heart rate is how fast your heart beats when you are relaxed and sitting still. To answer your question, there is cause for concern. Based on a recent study, even fit men with higher resting heart rates may have a higher risk of early death. The study followed nearly 2,800 middle-aged men for 16 years. In the meantime, you can start to lower your heart rate on your own: 1  Exercise more. 2  When you take a brisk walk, swim or ride a bike, your heart beats faster during the activity and for a short time afterward. 3  But exercising every day gradually slows your resting heart rate.
Know your current resting heart rate. Before you start taking action to try to lower your resting heart rate, it's important to know what your starting point is. To do this you just need to take your pulse and count the beats. You can do this at the carotid artery (in the neck) or at the wrist. Monitor your heart rate during exercise. To keep track of your heart rate during exercise just take your pulse or your wrist or neck. Count for fifteen seconds and multiply the number by four. When you are exercising you want to keep your heart rate between 50% and 85% of your maximum.
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower. You should contact your GP if you think your heart rate is continuously above 120 bpm or below 40 bpm, although this could just be normal for you.
Generally speaking, your resting heart rate should be no higher than 70 bpm (beats per minute), and having a higher one, according to an Italian survey, can increase the risk of dying from heart disease by up to 78%. In the worlds of physical fitness and cardiac health your resting heart rate – the number of times your heart beats per minute when you are sitting quietly – is as important as getting your heart into the “zone” for maximum calorie burning efficiency.
(Refs 1 and 2). Lowering your resting pulse rate is possible with a healthy exercise routine and lifestyle changes. Engage in at least 150 minutes per week of moderate exercise or 75 minutes of vigorous exercise per week to meet the American Heart Association's recommendations. Photo Credit AID/a.collectionRF/amana images/Getty Images. The more fit you are, the lower your resting heart rate will be. Most people have a resting heart rate that falls between 60 and 90 beats per minute, according to Dr. Howard LeWine, Chief Medical Editor for Harvard Health Publications.
A normal resting heart rate should be between 60 and 100 beats per minute. A rate of more than 90 is, however, considered high. 1  The resting heart rate of well trained endurance athletes can be between 40 and 60 beats per minute. 2  Test your rate over a few days to get an average. Monitor your heart rate during exercise. To keep track of your heart rate during exercise just take your pulse or your wrist or neck. Count for fifteen seconds and multiply the number by four. When you are exercising you want to keep your heart rate between 50% and 85% of your maximum.
Determine your maximum heart rate. To really target your resting heart rate, you can tailor your exercise regime so that you aim for a target heart rate when you are exercising. This way you can track the intensity of the exercise and how hard your heart is working, gradually increasing it as you become fitter. Monitor your heart rate during exercise. To keep track of your heart rate during exercise just take your pulse or your wrist or neck. Count for fifteen seconds and multiply the number by four. When you are exercising you want to keep your heart rate between 50% and 85% of your maximum.
People with heart rates of over 100 beats per minute (bpm) while relaxing, have a 78 percent greater risk of developing heart disease. If your heart beats too quickly when resting, it could signal that you're in poor physical shape or that you're significantly stressed out. 
Three Methods: Assessing Your Heart Rate Exercising for a Lower Resting Heart Rate Making Lifestyle Changes. Your heart rate, or pulse, is the measurement of heart beats per minute, or how hard the heart is working to circulate blood throughout your body. Monitor your heart rate during exercise. To keep track of your heart rate during exercise just take your pulse or your wrist or neck. Count for fifteen seconds and multiply the number by four. When you are exercising you want to keep your heart rate between 50% and 85% of your maximum.