Biography. Geronimo Stilton is the Editor in chief of the Rodent's Gazette, the most famous daily newspaper on Mouse Island, but his true passion is to write books, which become all bestsellers. He likes to read books, he likes to listen to classical music, play golf, even collect antique, 18th century cheese rinds, of all things! Geronimo Stilton and his good friend, Hercule Poirat, are called to investigate mysterious events in the famouse Grand Hotel in New Mouse City. Supposedly there is a ghost haunting the hotel; it's wearing armor, carrying a ball and chain, and scaring guests.
Geronimo Stilton is a best-selling children's book series published by Edizioni Piemme of Milan, Italy, since 2000. A best-selling author, Geronimo Stilton works as a journalist and editor for the fictional newspaper The Rodent's Gazette. He has a younger sister named Thea Stilton, a cousin named Trap Stilton, and a favorite little nephew, nine-year-old Benjamin Stilton.
1 In the books Geronimo's family usually don't help Geronimo when he is in trouble unless he really needs it and tell him to deal with it by himself. 2  However, in the TV series they usually help him more often. 26 episodes of 22 minutes have been produced for the first two seasons. In 14 October 2014, Atlantyca Entertainment took advantage of the MIPCOM event to announce its deal with France-based studio Superprod to produce The New Adventures of Geronimo Stilton, with the participation of Italy's Rai.
The Rodent's Gazette is Geronimo Stilton's most famouse newspaper in New Mouse City. It is updated every few months, with stories based on Geronimo Stilton's latest books and adventures. It is also the official Geronimo Stilton website for English readers. A best-selling author, Geronimo Stilton works as a journalist and editor for the fictional newspaper The Rodent's Gazette. He has a younger sister named Thea Stilton, a cousin named Trap Stilton, and a favorite little nephew, nine-year-old Benjamin Stilton.
Thea Stilton: Thea is Geronimo's younger sister, and is the complete opposite of Geronimo when it comes to adventure. In the books she doesn't really notice or help Geronimo when he is in trouble but in the TV series she usually helps him. 26 episodes of 22 minutes have been produced for the first two seasons. In 14 October 2014, Atlantyca Entertainment took advantage of the MIPCOM event to announce its deal with France-based studio Superprod to produce The New Adventures of Geronimo Stilton, with the participation of Italy's Rai.
Order* Geronimo Stilton-Graphic Novels* Geronimo Stilton-K Geronimo Stilton is a best-selling children's book series published by Edizioni Piemme of Milan, Italy, since 2000. Scholastic Corporation has published the English version of the series since February 2004. Although the series credits its title character as the author, it was actually created by Elisabetta Dami.There is another series of books featuring Geronimo's youger sister Thea Stilton.* Geronimo Stilton-Original Italian Pub.
Scholastic Corporation has published the English version of the series since February 2004. Although the series credits its title character as the author, the idea was originally thought of by Elisabetta Dami. On older novels, the copyright is issued to a pseudonym Geronimo Stilton; this was changed on newer books. A best-selling author, Geronimo Stilton works as a journalist and editor for the fictional newspaper The Rodent's Gazette. He has a younger sister named Thea Stilton, a cousin named Trap Stilton, and a favorite little nephew, nine-year-old Benjamin Stilton.
Geronimo Stilton: The main protagonist of the Geronimo Stilton TV series. He is not only the publisher of the humble The Rodent's Gazette, but also the president of the Stilton Media Group. 26 episodes of 22 minutes have been produced for the first two seasons. In 14 October 2014, Atlantyca Entertainment took advantage of the MIPCOM event to announce its deal with France-based studio Superprod to produce The New Adventures of Geronimo Stilton, with the participation of Italy's Rai.
Geronimo Stilton is a 2009 television series based on the books of the same name. It is produced by Atlantyca Ent. and MoonScoop Group. It first premiered on September 15, 2009 on Rai 2 in Italy. 26 episodes of 22 minutes have been produced for the first two seasons. In 14 October 2014, Atlantyca Entertainment took advantage of the MIPCOM event to announce its deal with France-based studio Superprod to produce The New Adventures of Geronimo Stilton, with the participation of Italy's Rai.
Geronimo Stilton is the title character in the Geronimo Stilton book series. He is a very nervous and scaredy mouse. He also hates Halloween, probably because he is scared of it. He loves Cheesy Chews. Geronimo is allergic to cinnamon, and he fears cats the most. 1 In the 2004 book La vera storia di Geronimo Stilton, it is mentioned that Geronimo doesn't know who his actual parents are, and that he was adopted by the Stiltons when he was at infant age. 2  Because of this fact revealed, the relationship status of his closest family members are questioned.