Confidence votes 14. The fibrous tunic is the outermost layer of the human eye. In specific areas are the sclera, or white of the eye, and the cornea which is continuous of the sclera. 
Fibrous tunic of eyeball. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye; the sclera is opaque, and constitutes the posterior five-sixths of the tunic; the cornea is transparent, and forms the anterior sixth. The term corneosclera is also used to describe the sclera and cornea together. 
1. Sclera. 2. Choroid. 3. Retina. 4. Orbital fatty tissue. 5. Vitreous chamber. Close-Up View. The wall of the eye consists of three major layers called tunics. The outermost layer is the fibrous tunic, which in this posterior region of the eye, consists of the sclera. The sclera is composed of densely woven collagenous fibers that make up the tough, white outer coat of the eye
Retina, 40X. This image shows a cross section of part of the wall of the eyeball. The eyeball has three layers: the outer fibrous tunic, the middle vascular tunic, and the inner sensory tunic. The part of the fibrous tunic shown here is the sclera (top arrow bar). Just below it, but not labeled, is the choroid (part of the vascular tunic). 
Confidence votes 9. The eye contains three layers which are: the outer fibrous tunic, an intermediate vascular tunic, and an inner neural tunic (retina). The outer fibrous tunic function is to serve as the sclera and cornea. The cornea serves as a opening to the eye and helps with thefocus of light rays. The sclera protects from large and small particles and provides a connection for extrinsic muscles.
Anatomy of the Eye. Outer coat of the eyeball is called the fibrous tunic. The fibric tunic consists of the cornea-avascular, transparent coat that covers the iris and the sclera, the white coat of dense connective tissue covering the remainder of the eye. Lens.
The eye is formed by three layers, or tunics. From the outside to the inside of the eyeball the three tunics are the fibrous tunic, which forms a capsule enclosing and protecting the other components of the eye. It is subdivided into the sclera, with primarily structural functions, and the cornea, which is part of the optic apparatus. 
The fibrous tunic is the tough, outer layer of the eye. As the only complete layer, it provides protection to the inner mechanisms of the eye, helps it hold its shape and provides a surface for the attachment of the muscles responsible for moving the eye. Structure of the Eye. The eye is divided into three main layers. The main, outer layer is the fibrous tunic and is the only complete layer in that it encircles the entire structure of the eye. The middle layer is the vascular tunic, a network of blood vessels that provide oxygen and nutrients to the eye's tissues.