(21 years of age to work as a bartender; 19 years of age to work as a server in a restaurant that sells alcohol; 18 is the minimum age to work in a liquor store or transport alcohol). Work hour restrictions: 1  Under 16: No person under 16 shall be employed: 2  During school hours except where specifically permitted. 1 14: Only between the hours of 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. 2  16: Prohibited from working more than 8 hours in a day and 44 hours in a week. 3  Marriage: Child labor laws in the State of Mississippi do not apply to minor workers who are married before they reach the age of 18.
What age did children start work in the 19th century? Well, in the 19th century, children were expected to start work at a very young age (some were four, five, six and older), because most didn't go to school and had nothing to … do except run around the dark, dangerous streets, pick-pocketing. Most children were taken to work in factories or mills against their will. Share to: Well, in the 19th century, children were expected to start work at a very young age (some were four, five, six and older), because most didn't go to school and had nothing to … do except run around the dark, dangerous streets, pick-pocketing.
Full-time work. Children can only start full-time work once they’ve reached the minimum school leaving age-they can then work up to a maximum of 40 hours a week. Once someone reaches 16, you may need to pay them through PAYE. Once someone reaches 18, adult employment rights and rules then apply. 
Tamagotchi children start work (school) a little bit after they become the child/toddler age. The v5 Familitchi toddlers/children DO NOT GO TO SCHOOL AT ALL. On v4 and v4.5, y … ou sing a song with the teacher. Share to: Well, in the 19th century, children were expected to start work at a very young age (some were four, five, six and older), because most didn't go to school and had nothing to … do except run around the dark, dangerous streets, pick-pocketing. Most children were taken to work in factories or mills against their will
Many children started work at the age of 5, the same age as children start school today. They went to work as soon as they were big enough. Even a tiny child could feed chickens. Older brothers and sisters took small children to work, perhaps to a factory at the end of the street. 
In WA, you can work at any age in: If you’re over 10, you can deliver newspapers or leaflets between 6am and 7pm if your parents go with you or you have permission from your parents for another adult to go with you (an example could be a brother or sister who is over 18). 
13: (Children 13–15 years of age may only perform light work, that is not in the vicinity of machinery. The working time may be on school days and up to 2 hours on other days up to 7 hours. In school-free weeks, the maximum working time must not exceed 35 hours per week.). 1 14: Only between the hours of 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. 2  16: Prohibited from working more than 8 hours in a day and 44 hours in a week. 3  Marriage: Child labor laws in the State of Mississippi do not apply to minor workers who are married before they reach the age of 18.
What is the legal age for teenagers to start work? when you are 13 years old you can get a Saturday job,the law says that you are aloud to work for five hours every Saturday, but when you are off school on holiday you are alou … d to work up to 25 hours. you work in places like: 1. aricultural or horticultural work. 14 years of age but they can be as young as 11 if they are a caddy... They will be required to have a work permit.   This link will answer all your questions.
There’s no set age for when you can start work. But if you’re under 15 there are limits to the type of work you can do and how many hours you can work. For further information, visit the ACT Office for Children, Youth and Family Support or call 13 22 81. Northern Territory. There’s no age set for when you can start work. But if you’re under 15, you can’t work between 10pm and 6am. For further information, see Care and Protection of Children Act 2007 or contact the NT Office of the Commissioner for Public Employment on (08) 8999 5511.