From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A hiatus hernia or hiatal hernia is the protrusion (or herniation) of the upper part of the stomach into the thorax through a tear or weakness in the diaphragm. Hiatus hernias often result in heartburn but may also cause chest pain or pain with eating. The most common cause is obesity. The diagnosis is often by endoscopy or medical imaging. A hiatus hernia may be treated with lifestyle changes such as raising the head of the bed, weight loss, and adjusting eating habits.
A hiatal hernia occurs when the upper part of the stomach pushes through an opening in the diaphragm and into the chest cavity. The diaphragm is the thin muscle wall that separates the chest cavity from the abdomen. 
A hiatal hernia often is caused by weak muscles and tissue within and around the hiatus. In a sliding hiatal hernia, a small part of the stomach pushes through the diaphragm and into the chest. The diaphragm is a sheet of muscle that separates your belly (abdomen) from your chest. The hernia bulges through the diaphragm at a place called the hiatus. This is the opening in the diaphragm that the esophagus passes through. The esophagus is the tube that connects the throat to the stomach.
Introduction. A hiatus hernia, or hiatal hernia, is when part of the stomach squeezes up into the chest through an opening (hiatus) in the diaphragm. The diaphragm is a large, thin sheet of muscle between the chest and the abdomen (tummy). 
Hiatal hernia is a condition in which the upper portion of the stomach protrudes into the chest cavity through an opening of the diaphragm called the esophageal hiatus. This opening usually is large enough to accommodate the esophagus alone. 
Hiatal hernia. A hiatal hernia occurs when weakened muscle tissue allows your stomach to bulge up through your diaphragm. It's not always clear why this happens, but pressure on your stomach and age-related changes in your diaphragm may contribute to the formation of a hiatal hernia. How a hiatal hernia forms. Your diaphragm is a large, dome-shaped muscle that separates your chest cavity from your abdomen. Normally, your esophagus passes into your stomach through an opening in the diaphragm called the hiatus.
A hiatal hernia (say hi-AY-tul HER-nee-uh) happens when part of your stomach bulges up through the diaphragm and into your chest. The diaphragm is a sheet of muscle that separates your belly (abdomen) from your chest. The hernia bulges through the diaphragm at a place called the hiatus. This is the opening in the diaphragm that the esophagus passes through. The esophagus is the tube that connects the throat to the stomach.
Overview. A hiatal hernia is a condition in which a small part of your stomach bulges through a hole in your diaphragm. This hole is called a hiatus. It’s a normal, anatomically correct opening that allows your esophagus to connect to your stomach. The cause of a hiatal hernia is usually unknown. 
The hiatus is an opening in the diaphragm -- the muscular wall separating the chest cavity from the abdomen. Normally, the esophagus (food pipe) goes through the hiatus and attaches to the stomach. In a hiatal hernia (also called hiatus hernia) the stomach bulges up into the chest through that opening. There are two main types of hiatal hernias: sliding and paraesophageal (next to the esophagus). In a sliding hiatal hernia, the stomach and the section of the esophagus that joins the stomach slide up into the chest through the hiatus.