Pineal Gland Calcification. The pineal gland may also be referred to as the “third eye,” epiphysis or conarium. This endocrine gland is located on the vertebrae at the center area of the bottom of the brain, just where the two hemispheres meet. The pineal gland is responsible for producing melatonin, a derivative of serotonin that will provide seasonal functions and the wake/sleep schedule of the body. As you age the pineal gland can become calcified, causing calcium phosphate to develop over the gland. Fortunately, there are ways to decacify the gland and prevent calcium phosphate buildup in the future
After noticing that the brain’s primary structures were negatively affected by calcification, namely the pineal gland, habenula, choroids plexus, superior sagittal sinus, basal ganglia, falx, dura mater, and tentorium cerebelli, as well as the petroclinoid ligaments, a promising new hypothesis was formed. “Fluoride is likely to cause decreased melatonin production and to have other effects on normal pineal function, which in turn could contribute to a variety of effects in humans.” (National Research Council 2006).
The first is to stop any further calcification of your pineal gland which is caused by any lifestyle habits or environmental factors, e.g. flouride, etc. The second step is to work on reducing and removing the existing calcification and help to further develop your pineal gland. STEP 1 – Stop further calcification of your Pineal Gland. The key to stopping further calcification of your pineal gland is to firstly identify what causes calcification, and then secondly stopping these sources. Generally speaking, it is a person’s diet (food/drink) and lifestyle that causes calcification.
Pineal Gland. “Fluoride is likely to cause decreased melatonin production and to have other effects on normal pineal function, which in turn could contribute to a variety of effects in humans.” (National Research Council 2006). In fact, the calcified parts of the pineal gland (hydroxyapatite crystals) contain the highest fluoride concentrations in the human body (up to 21,000 ppm F), higher than either bone or teeth. (Luke 1997; 2001).
The pineal gland is a small endocrine gland located between the two hemispheres of your brain. It is sometimes called the third eye due to its resemblance to the human retina. 
1 Luke (1997): The Effect of Fluoride on the Physiology of the Pineal Gland (Excerpts) The results suggest that fluoride is associated with low circulating levels of melatonin and this leads to an accelerated sexual maturation in female gerbils. In fact, the calcified parts of the pineal gland (hydroxyapatite crystals) contain the highest fluoride concentrations in the human body (up to 21,000 ppm F), higher than either bone or teeth. (Luke 1997; 2001).
The gland has been compared to the photoreceptive, third parietal eye present in the epithalamus of some animal species, which is also called the pineal eye. Rene René descartes believed the pineal gland to be the principal seat of the soul and viewed it as the third. eye Calcification of the pineal gland is typical in adults, and has been observed in children as young as 2. Calcification rates vary widely by country and correlate with an increase in age, with calcification occurring in an estimated 40% of Americans by their 17th year.
Fluoride is everywhere, its in the water, its in your toothpaste, its behind you!! Fluoride is a naturally occurring mineral which has negative side effects on the pineal gland or third eye. Crystals form on the pineal gland which is detrimental to your psychic ability and will weaken your ability to visualize inside of your mind. 
The pineal gland, also known as the pineal body, conarium or epiphysis cerebri, is a small endocrine gland in the vertebrate brain. Calcification of the pineal gland is typical in adults, and has been observed in children as young as 2. Calcification rates vary widely by country and correlate with an increase in age, with calcification occurring in an estimated 40% of Americans by their 17th year.
Melatonin is the neurohormone which is synthesized by the pineal gland and secreted rhythmically. The role of calcium in the activation of melatonin production remains unknown. In this study, we demonstrated that calcium input participates in the regulation of chick pineal gland. When EGTA was added to the perifusion medium, free extracellular calcium concentrations were dramatically decreased and melatonin synthesis was decreased. On the other hand, when the calcium ionophore A23187 was added to the perifusion medium, chick pineal glands exhibited a marked increase in secretion of melatonin.