There are 27 Vio-names for baby girls. Vio-names are somewhat popular as baby girl names. Their usage peaked in 1908 with 0.852% of baby girls being given Vio-names. Within the top 1000 baby names then, there were 3 Vio-names. The names have substantially slipped in popularity since then, and they are of sporadic use in recent time
Violet was one of the earliest flower names to be used as a first name. Violette occurred as a personal name in the south of France in the Middle Ages. By the 16th C it was fairly common in Scotland, through French influence, and continued to be used there. The name has been in use since the Middle Ages but did not become common until the middle of the 19th century when the use of flower names came into vogue. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
Origin of the name Violet: From the Old French violette, a diminutive form of viole, which is derived from the Latin viola (a violet). The name has been in use since the Middle Ages but did not become common until the middle of the 19th century when the use of flower names came into vogue. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
The meaning behind the sony vaio Logo. I always find things like this super interesting. Came across this example on a tumblr, but have re created the artwork. Update thanks to M Haidar for his comment reply. So if I had used my brain as M Haidar had, and took a quick journey to Wikipedia I would have found out the following:
up vote 0 down vote favorite. For example, VAIO VPC EB64FX BJ. Is there any site explains the meaning of these series number, and maybe has a list to compare between similar models. For now, I have to crawl a lot sites to figure out VPC = VAIO PC, EB is a series for certain setup like Intel chip, LED back light. BJ means the case is in black. 
It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Li-vio. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Livio Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Livio has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Livio to other names. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Livio in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Livio in Nautical Flags page.
Viola /vi-o-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Viola is purple. Viola is a version of Violet (Latin): one of the earliest flower names. Compare surname Violi. Kreatif forms: Violu, Viova. Viola is a very prominent first name for women (#244 out of 4276, Top 6%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#5064 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Viola for girls