1 An optometrist has completed pre-professional undergraduate education in a college or university and four years of professional education at a college of optometry, leading to the doctor of optometry (O.D.) degree. 2  Some optometrists complete an optional residency in a specific area of practice. 
If you're having a vision problem, an optometrist will examine your eyes and provide you with a diagnosis. In some cases, an optometrist may prescribe corrective lenses to treat your vision problem. If you have an eye disease, such as glaucoma, your optometrist will refer you to an ophthalmologist. Optometrists also provide your vision care before and after a surgical procedure, and the optometrist may administer prescriptions and vision therapy. 
Although not medical doctors, optometrists follow a similar educational course. A bachelor’s degree is not necessarily required, but you will need at least three years of post-secondary education in order to apply for the mandatory four-year doctor of optometry (OD) program. Optometry School. Most optometrists have a bachelor’s degree, although the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics notes the minimum requirement is three years of post-secondary education that includes courses in biology, chemistry, physics, English and math.
An optometrist is an eye doctor who has earned the Doctor of Optometry (OD) degree. Optometrists examine eyes for both vision and health problems, and correct refractive errors by prescribing eyeglasses and contact lenses. Some optometrists also provide low vision care and vision therapy. An optician is not an eye doctor, but opticians are an important part of your eye care team. Opticians use prescriptions written by an optometrist or an ophthalmologist to fit and sell eyeglasses, contact lenses and other eyewear. In some states, opticians must complete an opticianry training program and be licensed.
Complete a Doctor of Optometry Program. These programs take four years to complete, and must be completed at an accredited optometry school. 1  The cost of the program will vary depending on what school you choose, but annual tuition ranges from roughly $9,000 to $22,000 for state residents. 2. Obtain a bachelor's degree from a four-year institution. Most optometry schools require coursework in biology, chemistry, physics, English, and mathematics. Talk to your counselor to determine what courses you should be taking, and check the requirements at the optometry programs you plan on applying to.
You'll need a bachelor's degree to apply for optometry programs, which are rather competitive. Optometry programs typically take an additional four years to complete; upon completion you must meet national and your state's licensing requirements in order to become a practicing optometrist. 
Optometrists must complete a Doctor of Optometry (O.D.) degree program and obtain a license to practice in a particular state. Doctor of Optometry programs take 4 years to complete, and most students have a bachelor’s degree before entering an O.D. program. What Optometrists Do. Optometrists examine the eyes and other parts of the visual system. They also diagnose, and treat visual problems, and manage diseases, injuries, and other disorders of the eyes.
Step 3: Complete Optometry School. Admission to optometry school is very competitive. Because of this, students need to have earned high, passing scores on the OAT. Earning a Doctor of Optometry degree requires four years of study through an accredited optometry school. A passing score on the Optometry Admission Test (OAT) is required to be considered for acceptance into an optometry program. This exam, conducted by the Association of Schools and College of Optometry, measures basic academic ability and understanding of scientific knowledge.
How to Become an Optometrist. Optometrists diagnose vision problems and prescribe corrective lenses and medications to treat them. They differ from ophthalmologists, who can also perform eye surgeries, and from opticians, who design, fit, and dispense lenses. 2. Obtain a bachelor's degree from a four-year institution. Most optometry schools require coursework in biology, chemistry, physics, English, and mathematics. Talk to your counselor to determine what courses you should be taking, and check the requirements at the optometry programs you plan on applying to.