The type of boiler you have in your home will also affect the costs associated with repairs and servicing. An oil boiler, unlike a gas or solid-fuel boiler, typically has higher installation costs, service costs and even costs more to run. Unfortunately, if you live in a rural area that isn't near any gas mains, an oil boiler may be your only option. Replacing a boiler typically costs an average of $50-$300, but this price can be drastically higher depending on where you live and the location of the boiler. Replacing leaking, aging, or bad ductwork costs an average of $35-$55 a linear foot for labor and materials, depending on the length and type of ducts
As with many household expenses, the cost of a one-off boiler service can differ greatly depending on a number of factors. The area that you live in, what type of boiler you have and even the time of year can mean that prices vary from home to home. Boiler Type. Boiler service costs can vary between boiler types. Typically, oil boilers cost slightly more than gas boilers to service, but it is always a good idea to compare quotes in your area, as prices can differ from town to town.
Standard service and repair terms and conditions (PDF, 329KB). Gas boiler service: Additional charges may be payable if your boiler service or additional appliance service requires the purchase of mandatory manufacturer’s service parts and may be subject to Geographical Charges. Prices quoted are correct as at 12/11/2012 and are subject to change. 
Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. On average, boiler repair costs $352 nationally, with most homeowners spending between $185 and $558. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Most boilers and radiators need repair and service in order to continue working at optimum efficiency
1 Installing a standard boiler (80%-85% annual fuel utilization efficiency) typically costs about $2,500-$5,000 for a gas-fired model and $3,000-$6,500 for an oil-fired unit (generally used in areas without municipal gas lines). Counting the $80 per hour plumber fee to the specially trained Laars boiler person $1200 to install this UNIT, plus the repair labor cost what a piece of engineering work this boiler was. Good riddance. Do not buy this EBP Boiler.
Most boiler issues come down to weighing the costs and benefits of repair versus replacement. epairs typically cost between $300 and $500, which can involve replacing key elements like heat exchangers, burners, chimneys or lines. Compare the cost of the repair to the cost of replacing. A repair averages between $300 and $500 for most common issues. A replacement can cost between $3,000 and $5,000 for the new equipment installation, inspections and removing the old system.
Plumbing prices for boiler service. It is important to have your boiler serviced once a year to reduce the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning and the boiler breaking down at an inappropriate time of year-when its most used, the winter. These are the total costs that people have paid for getting a plumber to come round and service their boiler for them.
Much like house prices, boiler service costs tend to vary across the UK, with engineers in different regions charging different amounts. When looking for a quote you should always compare prices in your specific postcode, to get an accurate idea of how much a service will cost in your area. Boiler Type. Boiler service costs can vary between boiler types. Typically, oil boilers cost slightly more than gas boilers to service, but it is always a good idea to compare quotes in your area, as prices can differ from town to town.