Hi there. Thanks for your question, I will help you with this. Copyright is a form of intellectual property. Intellectual property is simply the general term given to property that cannot be physically touched. So, copyright is considered to be a property of sorts at law, and would be a trade mark, and a patent. You can sometimes sue for using a similar design that doesn't have copyright protection. This could be on the basis of registered or even unregistered design rights, and/or trade marks. Please press accept. 
1 PATENT LAW. 2  Patent law protects inventions. 3  By filing and obtaining a patent from the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the inventor of a product receives a monopoly on the commercial exploitation and use of a product for up to 20 years. 1 Patent law protects inventions. 2
Copyright infringement is simply any infringement up on the rights of a copyright holder. Copyright law gives a copyright holder (usually the creator of the work) a set of rights that they and they alone can exploit legally (save for exceptions such as fair use). Those rights include: 1  The right to reproduce (copy) a work. 2  The right to create derivative works based upon it.
Patents. A patent is a property grant issued to owners of intellectual property, as described by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, usually an invention or certain types of discoveries (mathematical equations and product formulas for example). Copyrights. A copyright protects intellectual property as described by the U.S. Copyright Office. Books, plays, music, software, artwork, architectural drawings, maps and similar works are all protected under copyright laws automatically by virtue of their creation.
The difference between copyrights and patents is the type of intellectual property each protects. Copyrights. A copyright protects intellectual property as described by the U.S. Copyright Office. Books, plays, music, software, artwork, architectural drawings, maps and similar works are all protected under copyright laws automatically by virtue of their creation.
Difference Between Copyrights & Patents. The difference between copyrights and patents is the type of intellectual property each protects. sign of the copyright, silver bevel symbol image by PaulPaladin from Fotolia.com. The difference between copyrights and patents is the type of property they protect. Copyrights. A copyright protects intellectual property as described by the U.S. Copyright Office. Books, plays, music, software, artwork, architectural drawings, maps and similar works are all protected under copyright laws automatically by virtue of their creation.
A patent protects the intellectual property contained in an invention. The purpose of a patent is to make sure either the inventor or whomever the inventor assigns the rights to are reimbursed for the time and effort contained in their invention, for a specified period of time. slide 4 of 5. 
A patent is a limited duration property right relating to an invention, granted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office in exchange for public disclosure of the invention. A copyright protects works of authorship, such as writings, music, and works of art that have been tangibly expressed. The Trademark Operation of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) handles trademarks only. For information on patents, please visit Patents or contact 800-786-9199. For information on copyrights, please contact the U.S. Copyright Office (a division of the Library of Congress). A trademark is a word, phrase, symbol, and/or design that identifies and distinguishes the source of the goods of one party from those of others. A service mark is a word, phrase, symbol, and/or design that identifies and distinguishes the source of a service rather than goods.
Most people have confusion in copyright and patent. To magnify the difference between these terms, here are some points. • Copyright covers the works of authorship like literary, musical and dramatic work. On the other hand, patent protects those inventions that are new and useful. • Copyrights are arts based while patent are science-based protections. On the other side, patent protection time is different in different countries. Normally, patent provides protection for 10-20 years from the date of application. • A copyright is almost free and paperwork is not very complicated. On the contrary, applying process for patent is much difficult.
1 COPYRIGHT LAW. 2  Copyright law protects the creators of expressive works, such as artists, photographers, writers, and musicians, and gives them the exclusive right to protect how their works are used. 3  It is important to note that, unlike trademark law, copyright law does not protect names or titles. 1 Patent law protects inventions. 2  By filing and obtaining a patent from the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the inventor of a product receives a monopoly on the commercial exploitation and use of a product for up to 20 years.