The name Jayden is of American origin, and it means Form of Jaden . It's a name commonly given to boys. 
The name Jayden is of American origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. The meaning of Jayden is “God has Heard”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Jaden is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jaden is: Jehovah has heard. A Biblical name. American Meaning: The name Jaden is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jaden is: Jehovah has heard. A Biblical name. 
Jayden is a variant of the name Jade (English). Jayden is also a variant of the name Jaden (English). Jayden is also a variant of the name Jadon (English). Jayden is a very popular baby name for boys, and it is also considered trendy. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 1990s; before that, it was of sporadic use only. [ 2 syll. jay-den, ja-yd-en ] The baby boy name Jayden is also used as a girl name, but the use for boys is much more common. Its pronunciation is JH EY-DehN †. Jayden is used predominantly in the English language, and it is derived from Spanish, English-American, and Hebrew origins.
The Biblical baby name Jadon is Hebrew in origin and it's meaning is thankful or judge. Jadon is pronounced jaw-done'. Jadon was one of the people who assisted Nehemiah in rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jayden and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jayden and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Jayden is “God has Heard”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
What does Jayden mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Jayden is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Jayden is G-d has heard, G-d will judge, thankful. It is also of American origin, where its meaning is Jay + Den, jaybird and English origin, where its meaning is jade. View the Jayden Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jayden has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jayden to other names. Jayden is a variant spelling of Jadon.
Jayden is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Jay-den. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 539 in baby name popularity for girls with 569 occurrences. It ranked 15 in popular baby names for boys with 12878 occurrences. View the Jayden Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jayden has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jayden to other names. Jayden is a variant spelling of Jadon.
Jayden /jay-den/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys (also used less widely as girls' name Jayden). Jayden's roots are American and Hebrew. Jayden is an alternate form, with the prefix Jay- , of Jaden (American): sometimes linked to Jadon. Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Jayden for boys. Jayden entered the list in 1994 and reached its apex rank of #4 in the U.S. in the year 2011, and is at #15 currently. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014).