1 The price of the interlock device may vary from one state to another. 2  In Florida, for example, the state has mandated that those arrested and convicted of DUI/DWI must install an interlock systems into their vehicle. 3  On the state’s official site, the court stated the price of the interlock device is only $12. 1 According to IgnitionInterlockDevice.org, the installation of the device typically costs from $100-$200. 2  The monthly rental fee can range from $70 to $100. 3 
Massachusetts Ignition Interlock Laws. The state of Massachusetts, like all states in the country, is in the midst of a battle against the near epidemic problem of DWIs on state highways. Massachusetts had more than 11,000 DWI arrests and several hundred alcohol related automobile fatalities in 2008. Contact Smart Start today in one of our Massachusetts IID locations for help with the installation of your Ignition Interlock Device. We can make sure that you adhere to court ordered and motor vehicle appointed requirements, allowing you to get back on the road and back to living a more normal life.
1 As per flhsmv.gov, the cost for installing an interlock device in Florida is $75. 2  Although other states may have different fees, they are all in the same basic range. 3  IgnitionInterlockDevice.org stated on its site that the installation costs around $50 to $200. 1 According to IgnitionInterlockDevice.org, the installation of the device typically costs from $100-$200. 2  The monthly rental fee can range from $70 to $100. 3  The price of the interlock device may vary from one state to another.
1 Installation fee. 2  As per flhsmv.gov, the cost for installing an interlock device in Florida is $75. 3  Although other states may have different fees, they are all in the same basic range. 4  IgnitionInterlockDevice.org stated on its site that the installation costs around $50 to $200. 1 According to IgnitionInterlockDevice.org, the installation of the device typically costs from $100-$200. 2  The monthly rental fee can range from $70 to $100. 3  The price of the interlock device may vary from one state to another.
Choosing an Ignition Interlock Installer / Vendor. The pricing is standard, so it makes sense to pick a local installer convenient to you. To have the ignition interlock device installed in your car, it costs around $200 for the installation, and $85/month for the ongoing monitoring of the device. Some installers will come to your location for an additional charge
An ignition interlock is a breath analyzer installed into a vehicle to prevent a person from starting the engine after consuming alcohol. If your breath alcohol content (BAC) is over the authorized limit, the vehicle will not start. The driver under this law can not drive any vehicle that does not have an ignition interlock installed. The DMV imprints a notation on the driver’s license stating that the person shall not operate a motor vehicle unless it is equipped with an interlock device and enters this requirement in the person’s driving record.
The costs of interlocks varies but are about $70-$150 to install and about $60-90 dollars per month for monitoring and calibration. Will my car be damaged when the ignition interlock is installed? No, ignition interlocks are connected to the wiring of the vehicle under the dash and hood. The driver under this law can not drive any vehicle that does not have an ignition interlock installed. The DMV imprints a notation on the driver’s license stating that the person shall not operate a motor vehicle unless it is equipped with an interlock device and enters this requirement in the person’s driving record.
A. Getting a DUI is expensive, but getting an ignition interlock installed doesn’t have to be. The pricing is considerably low cost and affordable. Intoxalock ignition interlock leases start as low as $65 per month for court or state mandated Legacy devices. Final pricing depends on your state’s requirements for technology and reporting, and how long you will need the equipment. Voluntary (non-DUI related) leases start at $49.95 per month.
How Much Does the Ignition Interlock Device Cost? The ignition interlock device, which the Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles requires for all second and subsequent DUI offenders, costs roughly $125 to install, and $85 a month to maintain, for a total cost of $2,290 for two years. Interlock violations can cost you the right to drive for 10 years or lifetime. Before starting your vehicle, the ignition interlock device requires you to take and pass a breath test. It also requires you to take re-tests while you are operating the vehicle. The ignition interlock device measure Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) and prevent the car from starting if the driver has a BAC greater than .02. The ignition interlock user is responsible for costs associated with interlock devices averaging $125 for installation and $85 for a monthly maintenance fe