Answer   Poland didn't surrender in World War 2, they were defeated and occupied by German and Soviet forces by 6th of October 1939. After the defeat the Polish governmen … t set up a government in exile in England where they continued the fight against Germany. Actually Poland never surrended to Germany during WWII. When soviets attacked us on 17th september 1939 our armed forces and government were transferred south, to Romania and Hungary.
In August of 1939, Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union signed a non-aggression treaty. One week later, Germany invaded Poland and World War II began. The first attack of the war took place on September 1, 1939, as German aircraft bombarded the Polish town of Wielun, killing nearly 1,200. On September 17, the Soviet Union invaded Poland from the east. Polish forces surrendered in early October after losing some 65,000 troops and many thousands of civilians. In November, Soviet forces invaded Finland and began a months-long battle dubbed the Winter War.
Confidence votes 27. Poland didn't surrender in World War 2, they were defeated and occupied by German and Soviet forces by 6th of October 1939. After the defeat the Polish government set up a government in exile in England where they continued the fight against Germany. Thousands of Polish forces fled to Romania, France, and England where they defended France during the German invasion then after France surrendered remaining Polish forces fled to England. Polish forces took part in many battles including D day, Operation Market Garden, Monte Cassino, as well as battles in Africa.
On May 7, 1945, Germany signed an unconditional surrender at Allied headquarters in Reims, France, to take effect the following day, ending the European conflict of World War II. 
On May 7, 1945, Germany officially surrendered to the Allies, bringing an end to the European conflict in World War II. General Alfred Jodl, representing the German High Command, signed the unconditional surrender of both east and west forces in Reims, France, which would take effect the following day. 
Poland didn't surrender in World War 2, they were defeated and occupied by German and Soviet forces by 6th of October 1939. After the defeat the Polish government set up a gov … ernment in exile in England where they continued the fight against Germany. Actually Poland never surrended to Germany during WWII. When soviets attacked us on 17th september 1939 our armed forces and government were transferred south, to Romania and Hungary.
Answer   Poland didn't surrender in World War 2, they were defeated and occupied by German and Soviet forces by 6th of October 1939. After the defeat the Polish government set up a government in exile in England where they continued the fight against Germany. Thousands of Polish forces fled to Romania, France, and England where they defended France during the German invasion then after France surrendered remaining Polish forces fled to England. Polish forces took part in many battles including D day, Operation Market Garden, Monte Cassino, as well as battles in Africa.
Germany's Surrender Germany surrendered to the Allies on May 7, 1945. they were forced to surrender after their leader: Adolf Hitler died. However, the formal peace deal w … ith Germany was not effective until 15 March 1991, as Germany wished to sign the deal as a united nation not separatley as East and West. Actually Poland never surrended to Germany during WWII. When soviets attacked us on 17th september 1939 our armed forces and government were transferred south, to Romania and Hungary.