A hippo has 40 teeth. When you see a hippopotamus opening its mouth, it seems as though they have only four! But they actually have 40 teeth. The incisors that you noticed, … and the canines, get to be 18 inches long. Those are used primarily for defending their young and establishing a territory. The reason we can see them so well is that a hippo can open his mouth 180 degrees, in comparison to a human that can only open 45 degrees.   A hippo has a full set of twelve teeth.
Hippopotamus teeth sharpen themselves as they grind together. The lower canines and lower incisors are enlarged, especially in males, and grow continuously. The incisors can reach 40 cm (1.3 ft), while the canines reach up to 50 cm (1.6 ft). The name comes from the ancient Greek for river horse (ἱπποπόταμος). After the elephant and rhinoceros, the common hippopotamus is the third-largest type of land mammal and the heaviest extant artiodactyl.
Hippo males especially use their canines for fighting. To ward off enemies, a hippo may yawn, scoop water with its mouth, shake its head, rear up, lunge, roar, grunt, chase, and make a loud wheezing sound, all of which are threat displays. There are two species of hippopotamus: the river, or common, hippo and the much smaller pygmy hippo. Hippos are definitely adapted for life in the water and are found living in slow-moving rivers and lakes in Africa.
Hippos are very aggressive creatures and are very dangerous. They have large teeth and tusks that they use for fighting off others that they see as threats, including humans. Sometimes, their young are the victims of their temper. During a fight between two adults, a young hippo can be hurt or crushed. Though hippos move quite quickly through the water, they can't swim.
Hippos have very long and sharp teeth. These teeth never stop growing, but stay worn down to a manageable size from frequent use. Hippopotamus teeth are made of ivory, similar to the tusks of elephants. However, hippo ivory is even more highly prized because it does not turn yellow with age. It is commonly believed that George Washington's false teeth were made of wood; however, they were actually carved from hippo ivory. 
The hippopotamus is a highly aggressive and unpredictable animal and is ranked among the most dangerous animals in Africa. Nevertheless, they are still threatened by habitat loss and poaching for their meat and ivory canine teeth. The name comes from the ancient Greek for river horse (ἱπποπόταμος). After the elephant and rhinoceros, the common hippopotamus is the third-largest type of land mammal and the heaviest extant artiodactyl.