English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Roz Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Roz has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Roz to other names. Roz is a diminutive (nickname) of Rosalind.
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?. 
Roz /roz/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is of Old German and Latin derivation, and the meaning of the name Roz is gentle horse; horse protector; rose. Roz is a version of Rosalind (Old German). Roz is also a variation of Rosamond (Old German): also (Latin) pure rose. Roz is a rare first name for females but a somewhat popular last name for all people (#102691 out of 150436, Top 68%). (2000 U.S. Census). Popular variation forms of Roz (not in Top 1000) ranked in the Top 1000 are Rosalind, Rosamond, Rosina, Roslyn and Rozella. Forms like Rozelyn are uncommon
Roz is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Roz. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Roz Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Roz has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Roz to other names. Roz is a diminutive (nickname) of Rosalind.
Here are pictures of people with the name Roz. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!
Roz was born in Bloomer, Wisconsin on May 5, 1964. Her mother Joanna (Eva Marie Saint) was a longtime politician there and serves as Attorney General. She has a sister, Denise, whom she resents for her supposedly perfect life. Roz also defends Niles when he has a nervous breakdown. Early in the fifth season, Roz discovers that she is pregnant with the child of a 20-year-old college student with whom she had a brief fling. By the end of the season, Roz gives birth to a girl, whom she names Alice.
Roz is mainly used in English and its language of origin is Germanic. Roz is a spelling variant of the English name Ros. Roz is also a shortening of the English name Rosalind. Roz is also a diminutive of the English name Rosalyn. Roz is also a shortening of the English name Rosamund. Roz is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Meaning & History. Originally a Norman form of a Germanic name, which was composed of the elements hrod fame and heid kind, sort, type. The Normans introduced it to England in the forms Roese and Rohese. From an early date it was associated with the word for the fragrant flower rose (derived from Latin rosa). When the name was revived in the 19th century, it was probably with the flower in mind.
Rose /rose/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced rohz. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Rose is  rose . Flower name from rosa. The name, which the Normans brought to Britain in the 11th century, can also be traced to the Old German words hros meaning horse, or hrod meaning  fame, renown. The flower meaning is possibly more valid, given the Christian symbolic meaning of the rose. The rosa mystica is the Virgin Mary.