Apr 30, 2014 • Art, South Africa • No Comments. Xhosa Names are family names given to the Xhosa people of South African. They are considered more important than surnames and can be used to trace a persons ancestral history. When a women marries, she is expected to keep her clan name by adding a pre-fix to her new surname. All Xhosa clans names have meaning to them. 
African Meaning: The name Xhosa is an African baby name. In African the meaning of the name Xhosa is: Sweet. (South African). SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 22. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.
Pingback: Beautiful Xhosa Girl Names « makeuppeople.com. I would like to suggest on pumezo name the name means his parents wishes we granted by having him or her they believed that their god or ancestors depending on their believe. Reply. The name Yonela does not mean “enough”. It means “Be content/satisfied”. 
South African Illustrator Thandiwe Tshabalala has created a series of GIFs which celebrate the beautiful and unusual names in her mother tongue of Xhosa. The vibrant GIFs take us through the ‘ABC’s of Xhosa Names’ such as Gcobani, Yonela and Sikelela, and they give us some insight into their meanings. Of the inspiration behind the series, Thandiwe says the following:
List of African baby names, African baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & African names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of African baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Xhosa in African origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. 
Meaning of Xhosa. African name. In African, the name Xhosa means-south african tribe.The name Xhosa originated as an African name. The name Xhosa is most often used as a girl name or female name. African Name Meaning-south african tribe. Origin-Afric
The name Xhosa comes from that of a legendary leader called uXhosa. There is also a fringe theory that, prior to that, the name xhosa came from a word meaning fierce or angry in some San language. The Xhosa refer to themselves as the amaXhosa, and to their language as isiXhosa. 
Xhosa clan names (isiduko (sing.), iziduko (pl.) in Xhosa) are family names which are considered more important than surnames among Xhosa people. Much like the clan system of Scotland, each Xhosa person can trace their family history back to a specific male ancestor or stock.
Login To Favorites. Xhosa is one of the official languages of South Africa, spoken by about 8 million people or roughly 18% of the population in South Africa. Xhosa is a tonal language, which means the same sequence of consonants and vowels can have different meanings when said with a rising or falling or high or low intonation. Xhosa is written using a Latin alphabet and is the southernmost branch of the Nguni languages which also include Swati and Zulu. Baby Name World keeps many categories of African, Bantu and Nguni baby names and name meanings for effortless searching.