The name Shanna is of American origin, and it means Form of Shannon or Shana . It's a name commonly given to girls. According to the 1979 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Shanna ranks #95 in popularity as a baby girl's name in Alaska. Imagine that, 9 babies in Alaska have the same name as you in 1979. Across the entire United States a total of 1,806 babies also bear the same first name during the same year.
Explanation guidelines: 1  Describe what artist is trying to say in a certain line, whether it's personal feelings, strong statement or something else. 2  Provide song facts, names, places and other worthy info that may give readers a perfect insight on the song's meaning. 1 Describe what artist is trying to say in a certain line, whether it's personal feelings, strong statement or something else. 2  Provide song facts, names, places and other worthy info that may give readers a perfect insight on the song's meaning. 3  Add links, pictures and videos to make your explanation more appealing.
Shanna is an feminine given name. Its origins derive as an anglicisation of Sionna meaning possessor of wisdom. or as a common diminutive of Shannon meaning wise river.. An alternate spelling of Shanna can be Shana.
You can find out when most of the Moakler families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI). A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
Shanna Moakler is an actressmodelreality television celebrity with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1992 to present. Shanna was born in 1975 as Shanna Lynn Moakler in Providence, Rhode Island, United States. According to the 1979 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Shanna ranks #95 in popularity as a baby girl's name in Alaska. Imagine that, 9 babies in Alaska have the same name as you in 1979. Across the entire United States a total of 1,806 babies also bear the same first name during the same year.
Recorded in various spellings including Manclark, Moakler, Mockler and Mokler, this is a most unusual surname. It is usually English, but of pre medieval French-Breton origin, and as such was probably introduced across the Channel after the Invasion of 1066. The derivation is from the pre 8th century words mau-clerc, and the literal translation is The bad cleric. As such this was a medieval nickname for a member of the church who was considered by his fellows to be somewhat less than righteous in his devotion to the vows of celibacy
View Resume | Official Photos ». Shanna Moakler was born on March 28, 1975 in Providence, Rhode Island, USA as Shanna Lynn Moakler. She is an actress and producer, known for Pacific Blue (1996), The Wedding Singer (1998) and Big Momma's House 2 (2006). She was previously married to Travis Barker. See full bio ». 
Explanation guidelines: 1  Describe what artist is trying to say in a certain line, whether it's personal feelings, strong statement or something else. 2  Provide song facts, names, places and other worthy info that may give readers a perfect insight on the song's meaning. 1 Describe what artist is trying to say in a certain line, whether it's personal feelings, strong statement or something else. 2  Provide song facts, names, places and other worthy info that may give readers a perfect insight on the song's meaning. 3  Add links, pictures and videos to make your explanation more appealing.