In particular, learn about how the earthquake liquefied the ground, generated tsunami waves, and forced the community to rebuild in a new location. Learn about the Great Alaska Earthquake of 1964 in this video adapted from the Valdez Museum & Historical Archive. Hear a first-person account of the event, watch an animation that illustrates the subduction of the Pacific plate under the North American plate, and observe how Valdez was affected
This website explores how plate tectonics can result in mountain formation, earthquakes, and volcanoes in Alaska. A video on the website illustrates the subduction of the Pacific Plate under the North American Plate, as well as the collision with the Yakutat block (creating the Wrangell St. Elias). This video is really great, and even explains that there are still aftershocks being measured from the great 1964 earthquake!
Earthquake occurrence in different plate tectonic settings: There are three main plate tectonic environments: extensional, transform, and compressional. Plate boundaries in different localities are subject to different inter-plate stresses, producing these three types of earthquakes. Each type has its own special hazards. The San Andreas fault in California is a nearby example of a transform, separating the Pacific from the North American plate. At transforms the plates mostly slide past each other laterally, producing less sinking or lifing of the ground than extensional or compressional environments.
This video is available in both English and Spanish audio, along with corresponding closed captions. This media asset was adapted from the STEEP: Saint Elias Erosion and Tectonics Project by KUAC and Geophysical Institute of the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. 
The accumulation of tectonic stresses at depth along the plate boundaries and the translation of those stresses into the shallower crust of southern Alaska are the driving forces behind the high level of earthquake activity that occurs in our state. At the northwest corner of the North America, Alaska is situated at the receiving end of the Pacific Plate as it slides laterally past southeast Alaska and collides directly with the North American Plate across southcentral Alaska and along the length of Aleutian Island Chain.
As this happens, the plates smash into each other, slide past each other or are pushed under another plate. This movement of the plate along with the upwelling of the mantle by the convection currents may also cause secondary actions that assist in plate movement. Slab Pull. Another mechanism that forms as a result of plate movement is slab pull. As the plate is pushed along, it may run into another plate. Oceanic crust is easily forced under another plate and back into the mantle.
From the deepest ocean trench to the tallest mountain, plate tectonics explains the features and movement of Earth's surface in the present and the past. Plate tectonics is the theory that Earth's outer shell is divided into several plates that glide over the mantle, the rocky inner layer above the core. The plates act like a hard and rigid shell compared to Earth's mantle. This strong outer layer is called the lithosphere
The movement of the plates creates three types of tectonic boundaries: convergent, where plates move into one another; divergent, where plates move apart; and transform, where plates move sideways in relation to each other. Convergent Boundaries. The plates make up Earth's outer shell, called the lithosphere. (This includes the crust and uppermost part of the mantle.) Churning currents in the molten rocks below propel them along like a jumble of conveyor belts in disrepair.
Subduction zone earthquake. The area where the earthquake occurred is a subduction zone where the Pacific Plate is subducting beneath the North American Plate. The crust of southern Alaska was compressed and warped due to plate movement prior to the great earthquake after the plates locked together. Crustal plate movement.