Click Import. Click Import from another program or file, and then click Next. Click Outlook Data File (.pst) , and then click Next. Click Browse to select the file you created in the previous section, and then click OK. Under Options, click Do not import duplicate items
TIP: Selecting multiple items in Outlook. January 22, 2008 5 Comments Craig Bailey read. Outlook allows you to select multiple items with just your mouse. The trick is to position your cursor in the very left part of the first column so that the cursor changes from pointing North-West to pointing N-E. Here’s how it is normally:
Click Outlook Data File (.pst) , and then click Next. Click the calendar folder that you want to export, clear the Include subfolders check box, and then click Next. In the Save exported file as box, enter a folder location and file name, or click Browse to select a folder and enter the file name. Click Finish.
1 select the first email-hold down the shift key-click the last email-select move delete or; 2  use control left mouse button to select and delete-if the messages are not all grouped together-you can also do Ctrl-Click to individually select/deselect messages.
If you use this method to copy the contents of any of Outlook's default folders, Outlook will complain that you can't move the default folders. Use a right click and drag instead-this will copy the folder and all of its contents. A related question is how to bulk delete folders. Again, this is as easy as drag and drop.
You can attach items and other messages to a new message: On the File menu, click New, and then click Mail Message. On the Message tab, in the Include group, click Attach Item. In the Look in list, click the folder that contains the item that you want to attach.
In OWA there are two (2) options: 1  select the first email-hold down the shift key-click the last email-select move delete or; 2  use control left mouse button to select and delete-if the messages are not all grouped together-you can also do Ctrl-Click to individually select/deselect messages.