Tweet. This follows the page describing the basic anatomy of the lower respiratory tract. The term  tracheobronchial tree  or  respiratory tree  refers to the structures of bronchi and bronchioles that terminate with the alveolar ducts, sacs, and, finally, alveoli-that are contained within the lungs. 
Search Results for 'determine 5 reasons why the respiratory system is like a tree'. Exercise 7 Respiratory System Mechanics. respiratory system is to distribute oxygen to, and remove carbon dioxide from, the cells of the body. The respiratory system ... respiratory tree...
The major function of the respiratory system is to provide the body with oxygen and rid the body of carbon dioxide. External respiration. Gas exchange between alveolar capillaries and the alveoli (oxygen movement from the alveoli into the blood, carbon dioxide movement from the blood into the alveoli). Transport of respiratory gases. Oxygen from lungs to tissues, carbon dioxide from tissues to lungs.
In the lungs, oxygen from the inhaled air is transferred into the blood and circulated throughout the body. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) is transferred from returning blood back into gaseous form in the lungs and exhaled through the lower respiratory tract and then the upper, to complete the process of breathing. The lower respiratory tract or lower airway is derived from the developing foregut and consists of the trachea, bronchi (primary, secondary and tertiary), bronchioles (including terminal and respiratory), and lungs (including alveoli.
The respiratory system consists of two functional parts: (1) a conducting system to bring the air in, including the nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi and bronchioles; and (2) the respiratory portion, the site of gas exchange, including the respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts, alveolar saccules, and alveoli. 
These bronchioles give rise to the air sacs in the lungs called the alveoli. The lungs are the largest organs in the lower respiratory tract. The lungs are suspended within the pleural cavity of the thorax. The pleurae are two thin membranes, one cell layer thick, which surrounds the lungs. The lower respiratory tract or lower airway is derived from the developing foregut and consists of the trachea, bronchi (primary, secondary and tertiary), bronchioles (including terminal and respiratory), and lungs (including alveoli.
Search Results for 'respiratory system analogies determine 5 reasons why the respiratory system is like a tree'. 
The respiratory system provides oxygen to the body’s cells while removing carbon dioxide, a waste product that can be lethal if allowed to accumulate. There are 3 major parts of the respiratory system: the airway, the lungs, and the muscles of respiration. The airway, which includes the nose, mouth, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, carries air between the lungs and the body’s exterior. The lungs... Click to read more below. The cells of the human body require a constant stream of oxygen to stay alive.