• Rainforests meet the shade require-ments of cacao trees and provide the high humidity, rainfall and soil condi-tions necessary for continued growth. Cacao trees grown in the shade and humidity of a forest produce far more pods than plantation-grown trees. 
Cacao Trees and Lawn Care. Cocoa trees in the home landscape are susceptible to trunk injury caused by lawn mowers and weed eaters. Maintain a grass-free area 2 to 5 or more feet (0.6–1.5 m) away from the trunk of the tree. Soils. Cocoa plants require well drained soil and grow best in slightly acid to neutral pH soils. Amending the top 4 to 8 inches (10-20 cm) of acid and alkaline soils with a mixture of compost, topsoil, and native soil may enhance plant establishment and growth.
Cocoa is the processed product derived from the beans of the cacao plant. The word chocolate is from the Aztec word, xocolatl, which means bitter water.. The cacao tree is an evergreen that grows to about 15 to 25 feet. The fruits and flowers of the cacao tree grow directly from its trunk. The tree grows an oblong fruit commonly called a pod, which can be four to 12 inches long. When the pod is young it is green in color, and can turn yellow, red or purple when ripe
If these are planted long enough before the cocoa trees, they give good protection. But if they are planted at the same time as the cocoa trees, they do not protect the young cocoa trees well enough and they take nourishment out of the soil. To give shade it Is better to keep a few of the forest trees. You can improve the soil structure by spreading manure and working it into the soil. If the soil is deep, the roots can go down to a good depth. Never plant cocoa trees in soil with a lot of stones, or in soil where there is some hard layer.
GROWING COCOA How cacao trees are grown and the seed pods harvested. Cocoa beans are the product of the cacao tree. The origin of the cacao tree is in dispute. The cacao tree is very delicate and sensitive. It needs protection from the wind by other, taller trees and requires shade. A newly planted cacao seedling is often sheltered by a different type of tree. It is normal to plant food crops for shade such as banana, plantain, coconuts or cocoyams. Rubber trees and forest trees are also used for shade. Once established, however, cacao trees can grow in full sun light, provided there are fertile soil conditions and intensive husbandry. Cacao plantations, usually in valleys or coastal plains, must have evenly distributed rainfall and rich, well drained soil
CHOOSING THE SITE. If a cocoa tree is to grow well, it needs more than anything else a soil. of good structure, permeable and deep. The cocoa tree has tap-roots. The tap-root descends straight into the soil. The branch roots go down very deep. But many small branch roots also grow near the surface. You can improve the soil structure by spreading manure and working it into the soil. If the soil is deep, the roots can go down to a good depth. Never plant cocoa trees in soil with a lot of stones, or in soil where there is some hard layer.
Because cacao trees grow well in the shade, the rainforest does not need to be cut down in order to grow cocoa. While cocoa likely originated in the lowland rainforests of the Amazon River basins of South America, it is now found as far north as the south of Mexico. The word chocolate is from the Aztec word, xocolatl, which means bitter water.. The cacao tree is an evergreen that grows to about 15 to 25 feet. The fruits and flowers of the cacao tree grow directly from its trunk.
Variations in the yield of cocoa trees from year to year are affected more by rainfall than by any other climatic factor. Trees are very sensitive to a soil water deficiency. Rainfall should be plentiful and well distributed through the year. Humidity. A hot and humid atmosphere is essential for the optimum development of cocoa trees. In cocoa producing countries, relative humidity is generally high: often as much as 100% during the day, falling to 70-80% during the night.
Cacao Tree (Crillo) (from chocovic.es). The Cacao Tree is a shade tolerant, moisture loving, understory rainforest tree. It naturally favors riparian zones so often in the wild is found along rivers. The trees live for up to 100 years, but cultivated trees are considered economically productive for only about 60 years. The leaves of Cacao are smooth bright green, oblong, about 15cm by 8cm. It is deciduous, it looses it's leaves, with new leaf growth in spurts 2 to 4 times a year. Shade leaves are longer than sun leaves in canopy area.