The employment and working conditions, which the Labour User shall provide to the Labour Provider, shall be as follows: i. Basic salary – including details of any standard/agreed increments or pay bands. ii. Overtime – rates and qualifying rules. Upon request from the Labour Provider the Labour User shall provide the Labour Provider with details of any assignments the Labour Provider’s worker has undertaken through any other Labour Provider for the Labour User during any period since 1 st October 2011. i.
A labour provider is a person or company who supplies workers to a third party. This includes employment agencies, employment businesses and gangmasters. A gangmaster is someone who supplies a worker to another person to do work to which the Gangmasters (Licensing) Act 2004 applies. If you are a labour user you should: 1  Carry out a risk assessment of the tasks the worker will be expected to undertake; 2  Ensure the control measures identified in the assessment are effective, are in place and are maintained; 3  Pass relevant information on to your labour provider(s).
Introduction. This section gives essential guidance to employers, employment agencies, employment businesses, gangmasters and other labour providers on their responsibilities under health and safety law towards migrant workers. If you are a labour user you should: 1  Carry out a risk assessment of the tasks the worker will be expected to undertake; 2  Ensure the control measures identified in the assessment are effective, are in place and are maintained; 3  Pass relevant information on to your labour provider(s).
Where the Labour Provider is providing a worker under a “Pay Between Assignments” employment contract (as defined in Regulation 10 of the Agency Workers Regulations) the Labour Provider shall: i. inform the Labour User of this fact before the commencement of the assignment. Upon request from the Labour Provider the Labour User shall provide the Labour Provider with details of any assignments the Labour Provider’s worker has undertaken through any other Labour Provider for the Labour User during any period since 1 st October 2011. i.
The guidance in this leaflet applies if you use labour supplied by a third party, or you supply or make arrangements to supply labour. What you were doing What went wrong. 
The Labour User will provide upon request from the Labour Provider details of the employment and working conditions that apply to the permanent employee(s) of the Labour User undertaking the same or similar role(s) detailed in 5a above. Upon request from the Labour Provider the Labour User shall provide the Labour Provider with details of any assignments the Labour Provider’s worker has undertaken through any other Labour Provider for the Labour User during any period since 1 st October 2011. i.
Labour Providers play a vital role in the UK economy by supplying workers to plant, pick, produce and pack our food. The Association of Labour Providers Ltd (ALP) is the specialist trade association promoting, supporting and representing our members by: 1  Providing high quality information and services to members. 2  Positively influencing policy and industry regulation. 3  Promoting good practice through supply chain partnership. The ALP’s aim is for the provision of temporary labour to the UK food and agricultural sectors to be recognised as a model of good practice. ALP members range from the largest national employment businesses to small local labour providers. We also welcome growers and producers as Associate Members.
When a business uses workers supplied by an independent labour provider, the business and the labour provider have a shared responsibility to protect their health and safety, regardless of which one is the employer. Determining who is the employer will in any case depend on the facts of each case. If you are a labour user you should: 1  Carry out a risk assessment of the tasks the worker will be expected to undertake; 2  Ensure the control measures identified in the assessment are effective, are in place and are maintained; 3  Pass relevant information on to your labour provider(s).