Mud-puddling swallowtail butterflies, Thailand. Mud-puddling, or simply puddling, is behaviour most conspicuous in butterflies, but occurs in other animals as well, mainly insects; they seek out certain moist substances such as rotting plant matter, mud and carrion and they suck up the fluid. 
Wet puddling had the advantage that it was much more efficient than dry puddling (or any earlier process). The best yield of iron achievable from dry puddling is a ton of iron from 1.3 tons of pig iron, but the yield from wet puddling was close to 100%. Puddling was one of several processes developed in the second half of the 18th century in Great Britain for producing bar iron from pig iron without the use of charcoal. It gradually replaced the earlier charcoal-fuelled process, conducted in a finery forge
1 And here was a man puddling the ground with his own blood for me! 2  If this land is agreed to be a very important site and should change into an exciting public place, contributing to the listed buildings and the vibrancy of that area, it can't continue as an uneven, puddled car park. 
Definition of PUDDLING. : the process of converting pig iron into wrought iron or rarely steel by subjecting it to heat and frequent stirring in a furnace in the presence of oxidizing substances. ADVERTISEMENT. Nglish: Translation of puddling for Spanish speakers. Tweet. : the process of converting pig iron into wrought iron or rarely steel by subjecting it to heat and frequent stirring in a furnace in the presence of oxidizing substances.
Puddling was one step in one of the most important processes of making the first appreciable volumes of high-grade bar iron (malleable wrought iron) during the Industrial Revolution. In the original puddling technique, molten iron in a reverberatory furnace was stirred with rods, which were consumed in the process. Puddling was one of several processes developed in the second half of the 18th century in Great Britain for producing bar iron from pig iron without the use of charcoal. It gradually replaced the earlier charcoal-fuelled process, conducted in a finery forge
puddling. n. 1. (Metallurgy) a process for converting pig iron into wrought iron by heating it with ferric oxide in a furnace to oxidize the carbon. 2. (Building) building trades the process of making a puddle. 
Puddling is a metallurgical process which was used during the Industrial Revolution as a means of making iron and steel. It is used by subjecting pig iron or any other impure metal to intense heat and frequent stirring inside a furnace, and in the presence of oxidizing substances. The process of puddling begins by preparing the furnace. While at a low temperature, the furnace is painted on the inside with iron oxides such as hematite. This step prevents molten iron from burning through.
puddling. (metallurgy). A process for the production of wrought iron by agitation of a bath of molten pig iron with iron oxide in order to reduce the carbon, silicon, phosphorus, and manganese content. puddle, clay puddle, puddling. Clay to which a little water has been added and which then has been tempered, to make it homogeneous and to increase its plasticity; used to prevent the passage of water.