Your doctor may start you on a low dose of fentanyl skin patches and gradually increase your dose, not more often than once every 3 days at first, and then not more often than once every 6 days. Fentanyl skin patches are only for use on the skin. Do not place patches in your mouth or chew or swallow the patches.
If the patch falls off during these activities, dispose of it properly. Then dry your skin completely and apply a new patch. Leave the new patch in place for 72 hours after you apply it. You can apply a fentanyl patch to your chest, back, upper arms, or the sides of your waist.
The patch is usually applied to the skin once every 72 hours. Change your patch at about the same time of day every time you change it. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Apply fentanyl patches exactly as directed.
The fentanyl skin patch (transdermal) is used to treat severe pain. It may be applied in a hospital setting after surgery or at home for severe chronic pain when around-the-clock pain relief is needed for a long period of time. Fentanyl is a narcotic analgesic (pain medicine).
Around two weeks to a month. It all depends on how regularly you smoke, your metabolism/body type, and whether or not you drink vinegar or cranberry juice. If you were to smok … e marijuana every day for a month, it would take approximately one month for the THC to get out of your system.
It takes approximately five to six half lives for the drug to be cleared from the body. The half-life for fentanyl patches is 9.5 to 12.4 hours. Multiply that by 6 and it could take up to 74.4 hours to clear the drug. You can do the math. Fentanyl lozenges-approx. 7 hours. Duragesic takes a few hours to kick in and is supposed to last up to 72 hours (like how Oxycontin is supposed to last 12 hours) but most people find it lasts 36-60 hours. From my experience I've found fentanyl patches to last about 48-54 hours.
It can take approximately 20 to 27 hours for the blood concentration of Fentanyl patch to be decreased by 50% once the patch is removed. Therefore, it could possibly take 48 to 72 hours for the body to completely eliminate Fentanyl from the blood stream.