A full recovery within 2 years – payouts range between £2,850 to £5,150. The average payout for a minor whiplash is usually around £2,850 – but to get this amount, you will require the services of a fully qualified personal injury lawyer to represent you in a claim. Moderate whiplash injuries range from £5,150 to £16,400. As you can see, it’s quite a large bracket. 
1 The average minor whiplash injury is worth around £2,500; according to statistics. 2  The bracket according to the official guidelines we use to value minor whiplash claims is roughly between £1,000 to £5,000. 3  Normally if you’re suffering for a minimum of four weeks, the claim should be worth a minimum of £1,000. Whiplash Claims Average Payout. When it comes to personal injury claiming, we are the experts! As an actual law firm dealing with claims (not some claims management company passing you over to the highest bidding lawyer!) our expertise in whiplash claims spans over decades.
There is not a set amount for a whiplash claim. The amount of compensation you will receive depends on the severity of your injuries. Typically, $1,280 to $4,140 is paid for minor whiplash where recovery takes place within one year of the accident. And for severe, serious injury where recurring pain and possibility of surgery may occur, this can be from $13,000 to $24,000. There is no set average payout for pain and suffering from a  car accident and most states limit the amount of money a person can  collect for this type of claim.
Each whiplash claim is unique making it very difficult to provide an average whiplash payout figure. Your compensation amount will depend on the level of injury suffered, and the effects it may have had on your life. Each whiplash claim is unique due to the uniqueness of the events that caused the accident. Equally, the amount of compensation you may receive is unique to the nature, severity and effects your injuries may have
If you have sustained a whiplash injury during a road traffic accident which wasn’t your fault, you are eligible to make a claim for whiplash compensation. 
The average payout for pain and suffering from a car accident is  based on the type of injury and the duration of pain associated  with the injury. Payouts also take into co … nsideration the amount of  time a person has been kept from their normal duties, such as a  job. There is no set average payout for pain and suffering from a  car accident and most states limit the amount of money a person can  collect for this type of claim.
If there is a total recovery of whiplash within 1 and 2 years, a typical payout would be in the region of £1500 and £2500. The amount of compensation you will receive depends on the severity of your injuries. Typically, $1,280 to $4,140 is paid for m … inor whiplash where recovery takes place within one year of the accident.
There is not a set amount for a whiplash claim. The amount of compensation you will receive depends on the severity of your injuries. Typically, $1,280 to $4,140 is paid for m … inor whiplash where recovery takes place within one year of the accident.
Tweet on Twitter. The average payout for whiplash claims is a difficult figure to arrive at because whiplash can affect people very differently, with results ranging from minor pain in the shoulder to paraplegia. It is possible, however, to look at the average for different kinds of whiplash injury. At Accident Advice Helpline we advise that you always claim for whiplash even if your injuries are minor because sometimes such injuries can develop into something worse a few months or years later.
Confidence votes 27. If there is a total recovery of whiplash within 1 and 2 years, a typical payout would be in the region of £1500 and £2500. Yes, the whiplash payout is likely to be in that range, however since each case is unique in its own sense we cant be sure about it. The whiplash payout is also determined by other factors like the loss of pay in case you couldn't have gone to work etc. The amount of compensation you will receive depends on the severity of your injuries. Typically, $1,280 to $4,140 is paid for m … inor whiplash where recovery takes place within one year of the accident.