Hereditary acne!! Both my parents had acne. Unfortunetly my brother and I do as well. I'm currently 18 and have had acne for about 5 years, and been on Accutane twice. Been off Accutane for about 2 months, and it's all coming back. But, heredity is definitely not on my side. My brothers both had acne as teenagers and into their early 20s, and they have some scarring from it. But neither of them breaks out much now. I didn't break out in my early 20s, but started in my LATE 20s. Go figure.
Best Answer: Get good nutrition. These top five nutrients have been shown to have a very positive effect on your skin and in treating acne. These nutrients, zinc, vitamin A, vitamin E, selenium and chromium, can pack a powerful punch in your acne war. Zinc-Zinc is the Acne stopper. It works in several ways to both treat acne and prevent it.
What genes do is they increase your propensity to develop acne. They modify the physiology of your skin to be more sensitive to hormones and other factors. For example: 1  Genes influence how sensitive your skin is to hormones. 2  So that similar levels of androgen hormones have different effects on acne-prone and healthy skin. 3  And because of this acne-prone skin produces more sebum and has faster rate of skin cell growth.
Re: Hereditary acne!! I know exactly how you feel. Both my parents have problem skin-my dad has a little acne but pores the size of Texas and my mom is still breaking out.Great for me. I am clear but my face is full of large pores and red marks that have been there for months. But, heredity is definitely not on my side. My brothers both had acne as teenagers and into their early 20s, and they have some scarring from it. But neither of them breaks out much now. I didn't break out in my early 20s, but started in my LATE 20s. Go figure.
My mom has it and all of her siblings, and my siblings and I started to have it during high school. If your parents had acne as teens then there is a good chance it will be passed on to you and your siblings. Keep up normal hygiene; avoid soap and other pore-clogging products (there are heaps of liquid cleansers available ine … xpensively from your supermarket) and if you feel the acne is really bad, or it's bothering you a lot, see a doctor or health clinic.
By Cindy Sult, RN |. Acne is a genetic disease that shows no discrimination to age, race, creed or color. What was once thought of as a teenage problem is now understood to effect all ages, from the very young to the senior population, and all ages in between. While you won’t die from acne, and it’s not as serious a disease as diabetes, the comparison is important and your life can be severely scarred and impaired by it. Like diabetes, we can control acne but we can’t cure it. Acne is caused by a fancy name called Retention Hyperkeratosis.
1 Genes influence how sensitive your skin is to hormones. 2  So that similar levels of androgen hormones have different effects on acne-prone and healthy skin. 3  And because of this acne-prone skin produces more sebum and has faster rate of skin cell growth. For example: 1 
Acne vulgaris (or simply acne) is a long-term skin condition characterized by areas of blackheads, whiteheads, pimples, greasy skin, and possibly scarring. The resulting appearance may lead to anxiety, reduced self-esteem, and in extreme cases, depression or thoughts of suicide. Acne mostly affects skin with a greater number of oil glands including the face, upper part of the chest, and back. During puberty in both sexes, acne is often brought on by an increase in androgens such as testosterone.
Acne can run in families, but this does not necessarily mean that if your parents had acne you will get it too. What does acne look like and what does it feel like? The typical appearance of acne is a mixture of the following: an oily skin, blackheads and whiteheads, red spots and yellow pus-filled pimples, and scars. Occasionally, large, tender spots or cysts may develop which can either eventually burst and discharge their contents or may heal up without bursting.
Studies: Acne is strongly genetic. The relative contribution of genes and environment on acne has been studies quite a few times. Let’s look at some of these studies. 1  A massive study of 458 pairs of identical twins and 1099 pairs of fraternal twins found that genes explained 81% of the difference in acne prevalence. For example: 1  Genes influence how sensitive your skin is to hormones. 2  So that similar levels of androgen hormones have different effects on acne-prone and healthy skin. 3  And because of this acne-prone skin produces more sebum and has faster rate of skin cell growth.