Smooth muscles of the body are the ones that work involuntarily-mainly they are your organs. The contrast is skeletal muscle which is are things like biceps and abdominals-these you can consciously control. Structure Smooth muscle fibers are spindle-shaped, and, like all muscle, can contract and relax. In the relaxed state, each cell is spindle-shaped, 20-500 micrometers long, and 5 micrometers wide There are two types of smooth muscle arrangements in the body: multi-unit and single-unit.
Excitation-Contraction coupling & contraction in smooth muscle. Excitation-Contraction Coupling: Some of the most important differences between skeletal muscle and smooth muscle occur in excitation-contraction coupling. One element that is the same between the two forms of muscle is that calcium plays a starring role. Unfortunately, that is about the extent of the similarities. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Smooth muscle is a type of non-striated muscle, found within the tunica media layer of arteries and veins, the bladder, uterus, male, female, and all animals, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, the ciliary muscle and iris of the eye. Structure Smooth muscle fibers are spindle-shaped, and, like all muscle, can contract and relax. In the relaxed state, each cell is spindle-shaped, 20-500 micrometers long, and 5 micrometers wide There are two types of smooth muscle arrangements in the body: multi-unit and single-unit.
Confidence votes 17. Smooth muscle is a type of muscle. Smooth muscle makes up most of the muscle in the organs such as the heart. Unlike skeletal muscle smooth muscles are not under direct voluntary control. Example we can't make are heart beat on by our self. We need a muscle the keeps the heart beating. 
Smooth muscle is a type of muscle. Smooth muscle makes up most of the muscle in the organs such as the heart. Unlike skeletal muscle smooth muscles are not under direct volunt … ary control. Example we can't make are heart beat on by our self. We need a muscle the keeps the heart beating. 
• SMOOTH MUSCLE (noun). The noun SMOOTH MUSCLE has 2 senses: 1. a muscle that contracts without conscious control and found in walls of internal organs such as stomach and intestine and bladder and blood vessels (excluding the heart). 2. muscle tissue that does not appear striated under the microscope; has the form of thin layers or sheets. Familiarity information: SMOOTH MUSCLE used as a noun is rare.
Unlike cardiac and skeletal muscle, smooth muscle does not contain the calcium-binding protein troponin. Contraction is initiated by a calcium-regulated phosphorylation of myosin, rather than a calcium-activated troponin system. Structure Smooth muscle fibers are spindle-shaped, and, like all muscle, can contract and relax. In the relaxed state, each cell is spindle-shaped, 20-500 micrometers long, and 5 micrometers wide There are two types of smooth muscle arrangements in the body: multi-unit and single-unit.
Visceral, or smooth, muscle is found inside organs such as the stomach and intestines, as well as in blood vessels. It is called a smooth muscle because, unlike skeletal muscle, it does not have the banded appearance of skeletal or cardiac muscle. The weakest of all muscle tissues, visceral muscles contract to move substances through the organ, according to The Merck Manual.
Smooth muscle is found within the walls of blood vessels (such smooth muscle specifically being termed vascular smooth muscle) such as in the tunica media layer of large (aorta) and small arteries, arterioles and veins. 