Culture (/ˈkʌltʃər/) is, in the words of E.B. Tylor, that complex whole which includes knowledge, belief, art, morals, law, custom and any other capabilities and habits acquired by man as a member of society.. Cambridge English Dictionary states that culture is, the way of life, especially the general customs and beliefs, of a particular group of people at a particular time..
In the humanities, one sense of culture, as an attribute of the individual, has been the degree to which they have cultivated a particular level of sophistication, in the arts, sciences, education, or manners. Cambridge English Dictionary states that culture is, the way of life, especially the general customs and beliefs, of a particular group of people at a particular time..
Small-business workplace culture operates similarly to family culture, where everyone has a role or multiple roles. The ideal small-business workplace culture, like a family, fosters individual roles and a team atmosphere working toward a common goal: success. While roles are usually not as strict in a small business as they are in a large corporation, the attitude of the role is just as important. Think about the candidate overall and how she will fit into your overall workplace culture and with your other employees.
According to Needle (2004), organizational culture represents the collective values, beliefs and principles of organizational members and is a product of such factors as history, product, market, technology, and strategy, type of employees, management style, and national culture. Thus, organizational culture affects the way people and groups interact with each other, with clients, and with stakeholders. In addition, organizational culture may affect how much employees identify with an organization. Schein (1992), Deal and Kennedy (2000), and Kotter (1992) advanced the idea that organizations often have very differing cultures as well as subcultures
1 A culture is a way of life of a group of people--the behaviors, beliefs, values, and symbols that they accept, generally without thinking about them, and that are passed along by communication and imitation from one generation to the next. 
When used as a count noun a culture, is the set of customs, traditions and values of a society or community, such as an ethnic group or nation. Cambridge English Dictionary states that culture is, the way of life, especially the general customs and beliefs, of a particular group of people at a particular time..
While your family may not define its culture, it has one. So does every business, and workplace culture is especially important for a small business, where the same group of people interact day-to-day and often overlap in roles. While roles are usually not as strict in a small business as they are in a large corporation, the attitude of the role is just as important. Think about the candidate overall and how she will fit into your overall workplace culture and with your other employees.
Roles. A well-defined workplace culture is especially important for a small business, where a small number of employees often wear many hats. For a small business, the organization chart is less important than its overall productivity. While roles are usually not as strict in a small business as they are in a large corporation, the attitude of the role is just as important. Think about the candidate overall and how she will fit into your overall workplace culture and with your other employees.