One way to pay off your car loan faster is to finish paying off the balance in one lump sum— provided that you have the money, of course. In case you can pay off the entire loan with one payment, make sure that you negotiate with your lender first.
1 Ask your lender if they can decrease the balance of your car loan if you can pay the remaining balance in one lump sum. 2  In some cases, lenders may lower the remaining balance of your car loan substantially if you can pay off the remaining balance with just one payment.
There are many different ways by which you can pay off your car loan faster. Doing so would also be smart since it will allow you to get out of your car debt sooner and of course, lessen the interest payments you have to pay.
1 The easiest way to pay off your car loan in a quick manner is to pay more than the minimum or required monthly payment. 2  If your monthly payment is $200 a month, and you pay $300 a month instead, you will pay off your loan 50% quicker.
5. Refinance Your Loan. This is one of the easiest ways to lower your payment, save interest, and pay off your loan in half the time (if you have semi-good credit, of course). Many local banks and credit unions are offering super-low interest rates on mortgage loans and car loans.
Use money from a tax refund or bonus from work to help pay down your loan faster. Or you can divide your monthly payment by 12 and add this amount to all future payments. For example, with my car payment I can divide $264.12 by 12 months and add $22.01 to each payment. Each payment would be increased to $286.13.
Another way to pay off the loan more quickly is to give an extra $100 a month to your payments if you can afford it. In just five months, you would be making more than a little over one month in extra payment. If you keep on doing this, you could shave a few months off your car loan.
Here are some tips on how to pay off your car debt loan quickly. 1  The easiest way to pay off your car loan in a quick manner is to pay more than the minimum or required monthly payment. 2  If your monthly payment is $200 a month, and you pay $300 a month instead, you will pay off your loan 50% quicker.