April is a good time for spring festivals in Italy. Although you'll probably find other small festivals, here are some of the highlights. April 25 is a national holiday celebrating Liberation Day in Italy. Some services may be closed but there will be festivals and concerts in many places. Easter, Pasqua, often falls in April. 
There are actually some jokes that have marked the history of this day in Italy. Here are some of them: - The most ancient joke in Italy is that of the announcement made by Buoncompagno from Florence in the XIII century when he promised to fly over the town of Bologna with a machine he invented on April 1st. The whole population gathered to see the flight, which actually never took place as it was a trick.
But no two celebrations are quite the same: (LIST: Best – and Worst – April Fools’ Day Pranks Ever). France – The holiday here is known as Poisson d’Avril, which translates to April Fish, and is also celebrated in Italy as Pesce d’Aprile. Traditionally, schoolchildren will tape a picture of a fish on the back of an unsuspecting classmate and wait for the transgression to be discovered. 
Il pesce d'aprile, April Fools'day, is celebrated on April 1 st and it is a day during which Italians, too, have the custom of playing practical jokes on friends and relatives, following the ancient traditions of tricks played in far-off times. - The most ancient joke in Italy is that of the announcement made by Buoncompagno from Florence in the XIII century when he promised to fly over the town of Bologna with a machine he invented on April 1st. The whole population gathered to see the flight, which actually never took place as it was a trick.
The traditional pesce d'Aprile (April Fool's trick) in Italy consists of a youngster surreptitiously attaching-with the help of tape or glue-a paper cutout of a pesciolino (small fish) to the rear shoulders of a school companion. Elsewhere on the Web.  Mappe degli Scherzi  Pesce d'Aprile  Proverbi 1 Aprile. In Italy, as in much of the world, April 1st is traditionally a day of practical jokes, pranks, and silliness. The origin of this custom is ancient and ambiguous, but one thing is certain: much buffoonery and hilarity will take place.
April Fool's day is known in Italy as pesce d'aprile. No matter the name every culture gives to this day, the purpose of it is common worldwide and a lot of countries celebrate it, including Italy. - The most ancient joke in Italy is that of the announcement made by Buoncompagno from Florence in the XIII century when he promised to fly over the town of Bologna with a machine he invented on April 1st. The whole population gathered to see the flight, which actually never took place as it was a trick.
While the poisson d’Avril may have originated in France, it is certainly not the only country where April Fools’ Day is celebrated with paper fish. In fact, Italy’s Version of April Fools’ Day is very similar to the French one (and was probably adopted from their neighbors to the north). Cartoon from Toonpool.com. Today in France, those who are fooled on April 1 are called the “Poisson d’Avril” (the April Fish). A common prank (especially among school-aged children) is to place a paper fish on the back of an unsuspecting person.
In Italy, France, Belgium, and French-speaking areas of Switzerland and Canada, 1 April tradition is often known as April fish (poissons d'avril in French or pesce d'aprile in Italian). This includes attempting to attach a paper fish to the victim's back without being noticed. Some precursors of April Fools' Day include the Roman festival of Hilaria, the Holi festival of India, and the Medieval Feast of Fools. In Chaucer's Canterbury Tales (1392), the  Nun's Priest's Tale  is set Syn March bigan thritty dayes and two.
Tweet. Lest you think that April Fools Day is a strictly American thing, let me set the record straight. (And no, I’m not making this whole “fish” thing up in the spirit of April Fools Day. I swear. ) Il Pesce d’Aprile, or April’s Fish, is very much like it’s American cousin – a day of practical jokes and pranks. You can read about an Italian’s memories of Aprils’ Fish here, a Wikipedia entry about it (in Italian) here, an article with vocabulary words here, and another article about it here – including a video! Tags: About Italy, Planning a Trip. Tweet PRINT. Comments on this entry are closed.