If you're a whiskey (and especially bourbon) drinker, you need to know what that means. By definition, whiskey (or whisky, in Scotland) is a spirit distilled from fermented grain mash — grain varieties include wheat, rye, barley, and corn — and then aged in wooden barrels. Whiskey is made all over the world and there are many popular styles including Scotch whisky, Irish whiskey, and American whiskey. 
The simple answer is that bourbon is always whiskey, but whiskey is not always bourbon. A strict set of federal trade regulations defines what's what. Whiskey the American kind, spelled with an e is a distilled spirit made from fermented grain and usually aged in an oak barrel. Bourbon is the most popular type of whiskey in the U.S. It was traditionally distilled in and around present-day Bourbon County, Kentucky. The region takes its name from the Bourbon dynasty, a royal lineage that ruled various European countries intermittently during the past 500 years.
As you said, whiskey may be made from either wheat, corn, rye or barley. American bourbon is predominantly corn, Canadian rye from rye, Scotch from barley & Irish from any of the aforementioned grains. Whiskey made from barley is tasteless, rye, bourbon impart good flavour. While the rules are slightly more loose with Bourbon than with Scotch it still has to conform to a few requirements. The spirit must be distilled to no more than 80% alcohol (160 proof) and be no more than 62.5% when put into casks for aging in new charred oak barrels.
Bourbon is a special type of distilled spirit made mainly with corn in America. It is a whiskey that is named after the Kentucky Bourbon County and is being made in America for the last three centuries. It was in 1964 that the American Congress accepted the Bourbon Whiskey as America’s ‘distinctive product’. Meanwhile, types of whiskey include the single malt one that is credited to a single distillery, Pure pot still whiskey that is only made in Ireland, blended whiskey that is made from a combination of malt and grain whiskey, cask strength whiskey that is rare because it is bottled undiluted straight from the cask.
Between Bourbon and Whiskey, we can identify a number of differences though the Bourbon is a type of whiskey. While whiskey, which originally comes from Scotland, is produced around the world, bourbon should be produced in America to gain the name. They both undergo somewhat similar production process. Some of the common types of these grains include barley, malted barley, rye, malted rye, wheat, as well as corn. Whiskey is manufactured and then left for aging in casks made of wood. The wood used for aging casks is usually white oak.
• Bourbon is a type of whiskey. • Bourbon is specifically made in America and is made from corn while Whiskey covers a range of beverages which contain a content of Alcohol. • Whiskey, unlike the Bourbon, can be distilled with barley, rye, wheat, and corn and even malted barley and malted rye. Some of the common types of these grains include barley, malted barley, rye, malted rye, wheat, as well as corn. Whiskey is manufactured and then left for aging in casks made of wood. The wood used for aging casks is usually white oak.
Scotch is whisky made in Scotland, while bourbon is whiskey made in the U.S.A, generally Kentucky. Scotch is made mostly from malted barley, while bourbon is distilled from corn. If you’re in England and ask for a whisky, you’ll get Scotch. On this side of the pond, we have our own local color, too. The difference between Tennessee Whiskey, like Jack Daniel’s, for example, and Bourbon is that after the spirit is distilled, Tennessee Whiskey is filtered through sugar-maple charcoal. This filtering, known as the Lincoln County Process, is what distinguishes Tennessee Whiskey from your average Bourbon, like Jim Beam
Whiskey is a form of distilled alcoholic beverage which has been manufactured from the fermented grain mash. Grains of different types are being used for different varieties of Whiskey. Some of the common types of these grains include barley, malted barley, rye, malted rye, wheat, as well as corn. Whiskey is manufactured and then left for aging in casks made of wood. The wood used for aging casks is usually white oak.
The manufacture of each of these types of whisky/ey is guided and regulated by the government of the spirit's country of origin. As a result, Canadian whisky, for example, is a whole different animal from Scotch whisky, Irish whiskey, and American-style whiskeys such as Tennessee, bourbon, and straight rye. (Okay, so far, so good. Maybe at this point, you’d be happy to enjoy a glass of the stuff no matter how it’s spelled. So, while American-produced varieties such as bourbon, rye, and Tennessee-as well as the Irish stuff-kept their previous NYTimes-styled whiskey” spelling, the stuff from Scotland, Canada, and Japan now would be referred to as “whisky.” Makes a lot of sense, I think.