MCV, MCH, MCHC, and RDW. These are measurements or calculations related to red blood cells (RBCs) and are components of the Complete Blood Count (CBC), a commonly requested test used for a variety of purposes. 
A MCHC test is a test that is carried out to test a person for anemia. The MCHC in a MCHC test stands for Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin Concentration. MCHC is the calculation of the average hemoglobin inside a red blood cell. A MCHC test can be performed along with a MCV test (Mean Corpuscular Volume). Both levels are used to test people for anemia. The MCHC test is also known as the MCH blood test which tests the levels of hemoglobin in the blood. The MCHC test can be ordered as part of a complete blood count (CBC) test.
The MCHC (mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration) is the mean hemoglobin concentration in all the red blood cells (or is the percentage of the red blood cell that contains hemoglobin) and is usually a calculated value by dividing the hemoglobin by the red blood cell mass (HCT or PCV). 
MCHC: Abbreviation for mean cell hemoglobin concentration, which is the average concentration of hemoglobin in a given volume of blood. The MCHC is a calculated value derived from the measurement of hemoglobin and the hematocrit. 
If a doctor suspects a medical condition; he recommends doing specific blood test to determine the disorder. MCHC is one such blood test which helps in estimating the concentration of hemoglobin (Hb) in the red blood cells (RBC). MCHC is an abbreviation for Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration. 
A related value is mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), which is the average concentration of hemoglobin in a given volume of packed red blood cells, or in other words, the ratio of hemoglobin mass to the volume of red cells. Interpretation. Both mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) reflect the average hemoglobin content of red blood cells in slightly different ways (see Description in Background).
MCHC and MCV, or mean corpuscular volume, levels are both used to test a person for anemia. MCHC tests for the levels of hemoglobin in the blood. This test is also referred to as an MCH test. 
A simple calculation is used to determine the mean corpuscular hemoglobin level in blood. According to Med Friendly, the total amount of hemoglobin in the sample is multiplied by ten and then divided by the number of red blood cells present. A CBC (complete blood count) blood test can be used to monitor MCH levels in blood. Lab Tests Online explains that the MCH aspect of a CBC test “is a measurement of the average amount of oxygen-carrying hemoglobin inside a red blood cell.
The mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, a measure of the concentration of hemoglobin in a given volume of packed red blood cells. It is reported as part of a standard complete blood count. It is calculated by dividing the hemoglobin by the hematocrit. Reference ranges for blood tests are 32 to 36 g/dL, or between 19.9 and 22.3 mmol/L. It is thus a mass or molar concentration. Still, many instances measure MCHC in percentage (%), as if it were a mass fraction (m Hb / m RBC).
A. MCHC stands for mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration. It’s the concentration of hemoglobin in the body’s red blood cells. MCHC is calculated by automated cell counters and may be reported as part of a complete blood count (CBC) test