Most brands make 4 types of package units: Packaged air conditioners, packaged heat pumps, gas/electric package units and dual fuel packaged units. We currently offer packaged unit price lists from Amana, Bryant, Carrier, Lennox and Trane. For a specific brand please see our below listings: Packaged HVAC Unit Costs and Features. When you browse one of our packaged unit price lists, you’ll see every model the brand makes along with pricing. We include the efficiency ratings for the unit as well as how it performs.
This hybrid all-in-one heating and air conditioning unit is perfect for homes with limited space or unique configurations that prevent separate heating and cooling systems. With two fuel choices, this all-in-one heating and cooling system will keep your home comfortable all year long. Silver 13 Packaged Heat Pump (Silver SI+ Packaged Heat Pump). The Silver 13 all-in-one HVAC unit's reliable design will supply your home with affordable comfort all year long. Built to last, this all-in-one heat pump can save you money while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
American Standard Packaged Unit Price List. This price list covers all types of package units including gas packs, heat pumps, AC-only models and hybrid heat pump/gas models. The prices we offer are not straight from American Standard but are gathered through reader input as well as our monitoring of the market. These units provide heat with a gas furnace and cooling with a standard AC, with treated air circulated with a standard blower. There are 4 models to choose from, also called gas packaged units or gas packs.
American Standard Gas/Electric Packaged Units. These units provide heat with a gas furnace and cooling with a standard AC, with treated air circulated with a standard blower. There are 4 models to choose from, also called gas packaged units or gas packs. American Standard Platinum ZM Gas/Electric System
Get all of your home heating and cooling needs in one easy package with one of American Standard's packaged HVAC units. Some of our single-cabinet units contain a packaged air conditioner and heating system, making it easier than ever to supply your entire home with energy-efficient heating and cooling. Your filter options do not appear to match any of our products. Try removing a filter and searching again. Silver 13 Packaged Heat Pump (Silver SI+ Packaged Heat Pump). The Silver 13 all-in-one HVAC unit's reliable design will supply your home with affordable comfort all year long. Built to last, this all-in-one heat pump can save you money while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
All-in-one or Packaged System. Packaged systems are all-in-one solutions, with most of the components for heating and/or cooling housed in a single cabinet. Packaged systems are popular in certain regions, where construction techniques favor a single cabinet system rather than a split system, which has both an outdoor and an indoor unit. PACKAGED GAS ELECTRIC. A packaged gas electric unit offers you electric air conditioning and gas heating. In warm weather, it's an all-electric high-efficiency air conditioner. In cold weather, it provides warmth from natural gas or propane, giving you the best of both energy worlds.
Available in the same configurations, and utilizing the same components as split systems, packaged units also offer a variety of efficiency options. Unlike split systems, in a packaged system, most components are in one cabinet. PACKAGED GAS ELECTRIC. A packaged gas electric unit offers you electric air conditioning and gas heating. In warm weather, it's an all-electric high-efficiency air conditioner. In cold weather, it provides warmth from natural gas or propane, giving you the best of both energy worlds.
Packaged HVAC Systems. An all-in-one heating and cooling system, packaged HVAC units maximize the efficiency of two machines in one sleek unit. Choose from all-electric systems, gas/electric or the dual fuel option of EarthWise™ Hybrid for a more eco-minded spin. Gas Electric Packaged Systems. 1  XL16c Packaged Gas/Elec. 2  Up to 16.60 SEER, 81% AFUE