Wild type (WT) refers to the phenotype of the typical form of a species as it occurs in nature. Originally, the wild type was conceptualized as a product of the standard normal allele at a locus, in contrast to that produced by a non-standard,  mutant  allele. Mutant alleles can vary to a great extent, and even become the wild type if a genetic shift occurs within the population. Continued advancements in genetic mapping technologies have created a better understanding of how mutations occur and interact with other genes to alter phenotype.
1. Wild type. Wild type is the phenotype in a particular gene or set of genes in a species. The wild types are also very common in different phenotype of a particular species. Though its favoured by natural selection but it is most abundant phenotype among particular species. The phenotype expressed in gene or set of genes within a species is called wild type while mutant type is a phenotype that is a result of mutation. Variation in the wild type and mutant type are based on the population and geographical causes as well.
The allele that encodes the phenotype most common in a particular natural population is known as the wild type allele. It is often designated, in genetic shorthand, as +. Any form of that allele other than the wild type is known as a mutant form of that allele. Here are a few examples... Wild type penguins wear tuxedos. Albino mutants look nekkid. Wild type tigers have orange fur and black stripes
The wild type is the most common form or phenotype in nature or in a natural breeding population. Definition. noun. (1) The typical (or the most common) form, appearance or strain existing in the wild. (2) The normal, non-mutated version of a gene common in nature. (3) The allele at each locus required to produce the wild-type phenotype.
1 Wild type Wild type is the phenotype in a particular gene or set of genes in a species. 2  The wild types are also very common in different phenotype of a particular species. 3  Though its favoured by natural selection but it is most abundant phenotype among particular species. The phenotype expressed in gene or set of genes within a species is called wild type while mutant type is a phenotype that is a result of mutation. Variation in the wild type and mutant type are based on the population and geographical causes as well.
Instructions. 1  Wild type Wild type is the phenotype in a particular gene or set of genes in a species. 2  The wild types are also very common in different phenotype of a particular species. 3  Though its favoured by natural selection but it is most abundant phenotype among particular species. The phenotype expressed in gene or set of genes within a species is called wild type while mutant type is a phenotype that is a result of mutation. Variation in the wild type and mutant type are based on the population and geographical causes as well.
Wild type. Definition. noun. (1) The typical (or the most common) form, appearance or strain existing in the wild. (2) The normal, non-mutated version of a gene common in nature. (3) The allele at each locus required to produce the wild-type phenotype.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The phenotype is the physical appearance of an organism. The wild type phenotype is the most common phenotype found in wild populations of that organism. Wild type genes work together to produce the wild type phenotype. Wild type is the standard of reference. Nonstandard phenotypes can be attributed to the action of one or more mutant genes. 
The concept of wild type is useful in some experimental organisms such as fruit flies Drosophila melanogaster, in which the standard phenotypes for features such as eye color or wing shape are known to be altered by particular mutations that produce distinctive phenotypes, such as white eyes or vestigial wings. Mutant alleles can vary to a great extent, and even become the wild type if a genetic shift occurs within the population. Continued advancements in genetic mapping technologies have created a better understanding of how mutations occur and interact with other genes to alter phenotype.