they have radially symmetrical  ANS2:  They appear to have radial symmetry but closer inspection will show  that the madreporite (sieve plate) is not centered and the anima … l's  behavior demonstrates that it has a preference in its axis of  motion i.e., it has a head end even though it has no head. A platypus is a monotreme, which is an egg laying mammal. It is semi-aquatic, living in burrows in creek banks, and hunting for food in the water. It is one of just two egg- … laying mammals in the world; the other is the echidna. 7 people found this useful.
The Platypus is a unique Australian species. Along with echidnas, Platypuses are grouped in a separate order of mammals known as monotremes, which are distinguished from all other mammals because they lay eggs. 
A platypus is covered with dense, brown fur. The fur has two layers, a woolly undercoat and a coarser overcoat. As the platypus dives, the two fur layers trap a layer of air next to the skin, which helps keep the platypus warm and waterproof. Its tail is similar to a beaver tail and is furry and flattened. The tale stores fat.
Platypuses have a lifespan of over 10 years in the wild, but they do face a few threats. They have several natural predators, such as snakes, foxes, and birds of prey. Platypuses are also susceptible to habitat destruction, but that is at a minimum. You have the platypus, a monotreme (an egg-laying mammal) that is indigenous to freshwater rivers and lakes in eastern Australia and Tasmania. Roughly the size of a house cat, the platypus is between 30-60 cm (12-24 in.) in length and weighs 1-2 kg (2-4 lb.).
Platypuses, like all vertebrates, have bilateral symmetry. This means they have symmetry across one plane (known as the sagittal plane, and directly down the centre of their b … ody), which means one side of their body approximately mirrors the other side. 1 person found this useful. A platypus is a monotreme, which is an egg laying mammal. It is semi-aquatic, living in burrows in creek banks, and hunting for food in the water. It is one of just two egg- … laying mammals in the world; the other is the echidna. 7 people found this useful.
The platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus) also known as the duck-billed platypus is a semiaquatic egg-laying mammal endemic to eastern Australia, including Tasmania. In captivity, platypuses have survived to 17 years of age, and wild specimens have been recaptured when 11 years old. Mortality rates for adults in the wild appear to be low. Natural predators include snakes, water rats, goannas, hawks, owls, and eagles.
You can find if a shape has a Line of Symmetry by folding it. When the folded part sits perfectly on top (all edges matching), then the fold line is a Line of Symmetry. Here I have folded a rectangle one way, and it didn't work. So this is not a Line of Symmetry. 
The platypus is one of the most unusual creatures in the animal kingdom. Platypuses (which is the correct plural form, not platypi) have a paddle-shaped tail like a beaver; a sleek, furry body like an otter; and a flat bill and webbed feet like a duck. In fact, the first time a platypus was brought from Australia to Britain, people couldn't believe that it was a real animal. Platypuses are among the few venomous mammals. Males have a spur on the back of their hind feet that is connected to a venom-secreting gland. More venom is secreted during mating season, leading researchers to think that the spurs and venom help males compete for mates, according to the Australian Platypus Conservatory.