Osiria Hybrid Tea Rose is one of the best hybrid tea roses available. Originally bred for cut flowers, this amazing deep red and white rose is now available to grow in your garden. Rose Osiria grows to approximately 50 inches (120 cm) in height and is fragrant. Partial to full sun, this particular bloom also prefers a well-drained location.
The Osiria Rose is one of those. At this stage it is very hard to get here in the USA. The rose has become something of a social media icon, and the image is shared on Facebook, Pinterest and Stumble upon often. This post is one of the most popular ones on my website. The colors in real life are not quite so dramatic, it seems. Osiria is a hybrid tea rose. (affiliate link) This links to an Amazon page where the rose looks similar to the photo below from Garden Web but it is not labeled Osiria. It is a very large flowered bush rose with dark green leaves. In summer and autumn, the fragrant, double flowers come out
Dear Osiria fans,The recent rise in fame of the Osiria rose through social media is astonishing. Some of the pictures on the internet are highly photo shopped, Osiria is not burgundy. Unfortunately the rest of the plant has many shortcomings; poor plant health, few flowers, and slow re-bloom.Our nursery prides itself to be on the forefront of healthy, hardy, and floriferous selections.
Osiria Hybrid Tea Rose is one of the best hybrid tea roses available. Originally bred for cut flowers, this amazing deep red and white rose is now available to grow in your garden. Rose 'Osiria' grows to approximately 50 inches (120 cm) in height and is fragrant. Partial to full sun, this particular bloom also prefers a well-drained location. Type: Hybrid Tea Flower Colour: Deep Red and White Flowering period: June-September Eventual size: 50 inches (120 cm) x 25 inches (60 cm) Scent: Fragrant.
Since we are one of the few nurseries that grow Osiria, we received the brunt of the attention to the point that our server crashed on the day we opened our shopping cart for the season.Osiria has a wonderful bloom, red with a silvery reverse. Some of the pictures on the internet are highly photo shopped, Osiria is not burgundy. Unfortunately the rest of the plant has many shortcomings; poor plant health, few flowers, and slow re-bloom.Our nursery prides itself to be on the forefront of healthy, hardy, and floriferous selections.
Variety or Cultivar: 'Osiria' _ 'Osiria' is a Hybrid Tea, or large-flowered bush rose with an upright habit, dark green leaves and, in summer and autumn, fragrant, double flowers with deep red inside the petals and silver-white on the outside of each petal. Rosa 'Osiria' is: Deciduous. Rosa 'Osiria' (Rose 'Osiria') will reach a height of 1.2m and a spread of 0.8m after 2-5 years. Suggested uses: City, Cottage/Informal, Beds and borders, Flower Arranging. Cultivation: Plant in full sun in well-drained soil. Best not to plant roses in soil where other roses have grown previously.
On the internet these days there are some drop-dead gorgeous photos of rose and flower blooms, some that are even colored like the rainbow! Be very careful when thinking about adding such rose bushes or flowering plants to your gardens though. What you get when attempting to purchase them will many times not be anything like the photos. One such plant is the Osiria hybrid tea rose. The hybridizers will at times keep one of the parents a secret so as to protect their introduction. For a bit of information on the rose’s name, Osiria, she is named after what was once a part of the fertile breadbasket of the world. Like Atlantis, Osiria is now sunken beneath thousands of feet of saltwater
For hybrid forms of the plant used to make tea for drinking, see Camellia sinensis. Rosa Peace. Hybrid tea is an informal horticultural classification for a group of garden roses. They were created by cross-breeding two types of roses, initially by hybridising Hybrid Perpetuals with Tea roses. It is the oldest group classified as a modern garden rose. Hybrid teas are the world's most popular type of rose by choice due to their color and flower form. Their flowers are usually borne singly at the end of long stems which makes them popular as cut flowers.