Myofibrils are cylindrical organelles. They are found within muscle cells. They are bundles of actomyosin filaments that run from one end of the cell to the other and are attached to the cell surface membrane at each end. song lyrics ... Myofibrils [ previous song / next song ] ..
Definition of MYOFIBRIL. : any of the longitudinal parallel contractile elements of a muscle cell that are composed of myosin and actin. — myo·fi·bril·lar \-brə-lər\ adjective. See myofibril defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of MYOFIBRIL. : one of the longitudinal parallel contractile elements of a muscle cell that are composed of myosin and actin. — myo·fi·bril·lar \-
Myofibrils. contractile filaments in the protoplasm of striated muscle fibers of the skeletal musculature, myocardium, and muscles with double diagonal striation. For example, when the myofibrils are stretched a great deal, the thin myofilaments should emerge completely from the A band, and the sarcomere should fragment. However, this does not happen, possibly because of the existence of a third type of myofilament—“ultrathin filaments,” which connect the Z bands.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Formerly known as sarcostyles, myofibrils are long, bundled tubes of cytoskeleton that run the length of striated muscle fibers. Like all cytoskeletons, myofibrils function in cellular support, movement, and intra-cellular transport. 
A myofibril (also known as a muscle fibril) is a basic rod-like unit of a muscle cell. Muscles are composed of tubular cells called myocytes, known as muscle fibers in striated muscle, and these cells in turn contain many chains of myofibrils. The filaments of myofibrils, myofilaments, consist of two types, thick and thin: 1  Thin filaments consist primarily of the protein actin, coiled with nebulin filaments. 2  Actin, when polymerized into filaments, forms the ladder along which the myosin filaments climb to generate motion
Myofibril is the name given to cylindrical structures that extend along the complete length of each muscle cell. Recall that muscle cell = muscle fibre = muscle fiber (Am.Sp.). See the diagram below for further detail about the structure of myofibrils and their location within muscle cells. There are hundreds of myofibrils in each muscle fibre. Myofibrils line up with each other such that the Z-lines (formed from adjacent Z discs) of each sarcomere in one myofibril line up with the Z-lines of the sarcomeres in adjacent myofibrils.
(1) Long, cylindrical organelle in striated muscle cells, composed mainly of actin and myosin filaments that run from one end of the cell to the other. (2) The contractile unit of a striated muscle. Supplement. The actin and myosin filaments are organized into repeated subunits along the length of the myofibril. These subunits are called sarcomeres. Word origin: myo - (muscle) + fibril. Related term: myofibrillar (adjective). Synonym: 1  sarcostyle (obsolete).
Myofibrils are composed of long proteins including actin, myosin, and titin, and other proteins that hold them together. These proteins are organized into thick and thin filaments called myofilaments, which repeat along the length of the myofibril in sections called sarcomeres. The filaments of myofibrils, myofilaments, consist of two types, thick and thin: 1  Thin filaments consist primarily of the protein actin, coiled with nebulin filaments. 2  Actin, when polymerized into filaments, forms the ladder along which the myosin filaments climb to generate motion
Above: Diagram of the structure of a muscle fibre, indicating a single myofibril (top right). Above: Diagram of the structure of a muscle fibre, indicating a single myofibril (top right). Each myofibril consists of two types of protein filaments. They are thin filaments and thick filaments. There are hundreds of myofibrils in each muscle fibre. Myofibrils line up with each other such that the Z-lines (formed from adjacent Z discs) of each sarcomere in one myofibril line up with the Z-lines of the sarcomeres in adjacent myofibrils.