| Login. Collective noun is the name we give to a group of nouns to refer to them as one entity. The most common method of doing this is by using words like group or bunch that can be applicable to most of the nouns in the language today.
Collective nouns are words for a group of like people or things. For the noun grapes, the collective noun bunch or cluster is used, a bunch of grapes, a cluster of grapes. Exa … mples: A flock of sheep.
Collective nouns are the words used to define a group of people, animals or inanimate things. For example, in the phrase a flock of geese or a  pride of lions, flock and pride are collective nouns. There are many collective nouns that refer to animals.
Collective nouns denote a group of people, objects, ideas, or animals as a single concept. Though the collective noun refers to more than one in a group, the noun itself is considered a single thing. However, they can be used as either singular of plural. It all depends on the sentence.
Definition & Meaning. Collective nouns are the words used to define a group of people, animals or inanimate things. For example, in the phrase a flock of geese or a  pride of lions, flock and pride are collective nouns. There are many collective nouns that refer to animals.
A collective noun is a special noun that names a group of people or things.examples of collective nouns: flock, group, team, class, crew The subject of each sentence below is a collective noun. Underline the
Collective nouns are names for a collection or a number of people or things. Words like group, herd, and array are collective noun examples. Here, we’ll take a closer look at collective nouns, and provide even more examples, placing them in context so you can gain a greater understanding of how they work.
A noun (such as team, committee, or family) that refers to a group of individuals. In American English, collective nouns usually take singular verb forms. Collective nouns can be replaced by both singular and plural pronouns, depending on their meaning.