You may also decide to hire additional help for the moving to pack, load and unload the moving truck with your things. Based on the average cost per hour at about $90 for 3 people for 4 hours you would have to pay $320. This is one of the highest costs of all costs along with hiring a truck and paying for its fuel. You may also wish to buy some furniture pads to protect your belongings during transportation and they cost about $8 each. This means that the average cost of packing materials will vary between $170 and $220 for a 3 bedroom house. These are the calculations for average moving costs for your upcoming move.
The average cost of hiring professional movers depends on the amount of possessions you have to be packed which is usually determined by the number of bedrooms. The average cost for movers is between 90 and 120 dollars per hour.  A local company may be less expensive but provide more security,  while a larger mover may cost more but … provide more benefit.
1 A studio apartment takes two movers--at $25 each per hour--an average of 2-4 hours to load, transport and unload for a price of $100-$200. 2  The same service for a 900-square foot two-bedroom apartment with three movers will take 4-6 hours and cost $300-$450. 1 Tipping is common for movers and runs $3-$5 per hour or 7-15% of the total move cost. 2  Insurance for a move runs about 30 cents per pound. 3  The American Moving and Storage Association explains how to plan a move and what to do before getting estimates.
Time of year. Most movers will be able to quote you a ballpark price for moving your home based on the numbers and types of rooms in your home. Movers are well trained in being able to estimate how much packing and moving is involved in a 400 square foot kitchen as opposed to a 200 square foot library. When you first contact your moving company, be prepared with as much information about the size of your home, number of rooms and type of rooms you are moving.
The average moving cost per hour varies between $85 to $95 depending on the moving date. This is the average cost for hiring two men and a truck. Usually in summer it is more expensive to move as well as at the end of the month. So checking how much the hourly rate for movers is is one of the things to do before moving. You may also wish to buy some furniture pads to protect your belongings during transportation and they cost about $8 each. This means that the average cost of packing materials will vary between $170 and $220 for a 3 bedroom house. These are the calculations for average moving costs for your upcoming move.
1 Moving out of a studio apartment with the help of 2 local movers will cost you around $150-$200 if the entire loading, transportation and unloading operations are complete within 3-4 hours. If you decide to hire movers for labor only (without a moving truck), the professionals will charge about $60 to $80 per hour of labor. You can use our local moving cost calculator form on the top of the page as a cost estimator about the entire move.
You may also be charged for packing materials. Make sure you keep this in mind when you speak with them to estimate moving costs. The average cost of movers for 2 men and a truck is between $90 and $120 per hour. If you decide to hire movers for labor only (without a moving truck), the professionals will charge about $60 to $80 per hour of labor. You can use our local moving cost calculator form on the top of the page as a cost estimator about the entire move.
Confidence votes 3. The average cost of hiring professional movers depends on the amount of possessions you have to be packed which is usually determined by the number of bedrooms. The price would also depend on the distance of your move as well as the type of service you choose. The average cost for movers is between 90 and 120 dollars per hour.  A local company may be less expensive but provide more security,  while a larger mover may cost more but … provide more benefit.
According to an MSN Real Estate article on moving costs, two professional movers can pack up a two-to three-bedroom home in a day at a cost of $400 to $640 (at about $25 – $40 an hour without materials). Remember, there’s no substitute for getting estimates from top rated movers. 
Summertime is peak moving season, but you can lower costs with the right preparations. By Daniel Bortz. + More. The average professional household move costs a whopping $12,230, according to a 2010 report by Worldwide ERC, an association that tracks mobility costs. However, this cost is for a full-service professional move, in which the moving company packs up your belongings and essentially handles the entire move for you. 