The cytoplasm of the animal cell is a gel-like material made of water. It fills the cells and contains proteins and important molecules that are necessary for the cell. The cytoplasm is made of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, amino acids and nucleotides. Cytoplasm holds all the cellular organelles. 1 The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 2  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement. 3  It also aids in the movement of the different cellular elements.
1 Items assessing cellular structures are limited to the cell wall, cell membrane, nucleus, cytoplasm, chloroplasts, mitochondria, and vacuoles. 2  Stimulus Attributes 3  : Scenarios will require a comparison or contrast of organelles in plant and/or animal cells. 1 Content Limits 2  : Items assessing cellular structures are limited to the cell wall, cell membrane, nucleus, cytoplasm, chloroplasts, mitochondria, and vacuoles. 3  Stimulus Attributes 4
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. 
All living things are made up of cells. The structures of different types of cells are related to their functions. Animal cells and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant and algal cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole
All animals and plants are made of cells. Animal cells and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole
2 Parent Resources. Compare and contrast the structure and function of major organelles of plant and animal cells, including cell wall, cell membrane, nucleus, cytoplasm, chloroplasts, mitochondria, and vacuoles. 1 Content Limits 2  : Items assessing cellular structures are limited to the cell wall, cell membrane, nucleus, cytoplasm, chloroplasts, mitochondria, and vacuoles. 3  Stimulus Attributes 4  : Scenarios will require a comparison or contrast of organelles in plant and/or animal cells.
In eukaryotes, the nucleus of a cell is separated from the cytoplasm by a double membrane, known as nuclear membrane. The cytoplasm has three major components-the cytosol, organelles, and cytoplasmic inclusions, of which the cytosol is the thick fluid where other cytoplasmic elements remain suspended. The cytosol consists of 70% to 90% water, and it is usually colorless. The structure and functions of some of the major organelles found in the cytoplasm are explained below. It is a sac-like structure found in the cytoplasm. The endoplasmic reticulum is composed of an interconnected network of flattened sacs or tubes, known as cisternae, that remain bounded by a membrane.
Animal cell contains membrane bound nucleus, it also contains other membrane bound cellular organelles. These cellular organelles carry out specific functions that are necessary for the normal functioning of the cell. A nimal cells lack cell wall, a large vacuole and plastids. The constituents of animal cells are structures like centrioles, cilia and flagella and lysosomes. Parts of the animal cell are as follows: Cell membrane-forms the outer covering of the cell, and is semi-permeable. Cytoplasm-is a gel-like matrix where all the other cell organelles are suspended inside the cell.
The cytoplasm is the region that is inclosed within the cell membrane. The cytoplasm contains enzymes that control chemical reactions inside cells. It also is the site where most of the cell's cellular activities take place such as the metabolic pathways. It also makes helps the animal by making its eyes bluer at night. Cell division also occurs in the cytoplasm.