Bloomberg. Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world. AmBase Corporation -- Announces The 111 West 57th Street Real Estate Development Project Obtains Construction Financing. AmBase Reports Results For The Three Months Ended March 31, 2015. There are currently no press releases for this ticker. Please check back later.
For the past 20 years Ambase Corp. has spent $10 million + on legal fee's arguing that the government caused the bank to fail. Finally In August of 2011 a senior judge in the Court of Federal Claims, sided AmBase, ruling that the government should pay it $205 million in damages. in accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement, shortly followed by an announcement that the Company's Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $2.00 per common share to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 21, 2012, payable on December 10, 2012.
AmBase Corporation operates as a property management company. The Company, through thier subsidiaries, provides services in the management, operation, ownership, and lease of commercial office buildings. AmBase Corporation -- Announces The 111 West 57th Street Real Estate Development Project Obtains Construction Financing. AmBase Reports Results For The Three Months Ended March 31, 2015. There are currently no press releases for this ticker. Please check back later.
In 1985, plaintiff AmBase Corporation became an independent entity when its parent City Investing Company elected to liquidate. In order to ensure payment of its post-liquidation liabilities, City Investing transferred substantial assets to City Investing Company Liquidating Trust (City Trust). A party is required to bring all of its claims arising out of a transaction in a single complaint. Here, AmBase, in its amended complaint, specifically identified the amount of the fee as $1,424,104 and thus was undeniably on notice of its exact amount.
Ambase Corp. (OTC: ABCP) Is a Winner! Ambase is flush with cash and heavy speculation continues on whats next for ABCP. After seeeing highs well over $3 per share, ABCP announced the cash divident and the stock has been trading in the $1 range ever since. in accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement, shortly followed by an announcement that the Company's Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $2.00 per common share to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 21, 2012, payable on December 10, 2012.
AmBase Corporation -- Announces The 111 West 57th Street Real Estate Development Project Obtains Construction Financing. 
If your shares are held in the name of your bank, brokerage firm or other nominee, you must bring to the Annual Meeting, a copy of your proxy card, an account statement, or letter from the nominee indicating that you beneficially owned the shares as of the April 18, 2012 record date for voting. The Personnel Committee will consider nominees recommended by stockholders for election at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders that are submitted prior to December 20, 2012, to our Secretary at the Company’s offices, 100 Putnam Green, 3rd Floor, Greenwich, Connecticut 06830.
52 Week High/Low 52 Week High is the highest sales price the stock has achieved during the regular trading hours during the most recent 52 week period. 52 Week Low is the lowest sales price the stock has fallen to during the regular trading hours during the most recent 52 week period. N/A / N/A. Annualized dividend. The lowest sales price the stock has fallen to during the regular trading hours, the intra-day low. N/A / N/A. Share Volume Share Volume is the number of shares of the stock traded on the listing exchange during current trading hours.
AmBase Corporation (AmBase) is a holding company. The Company has an equity investment in a real estate development property to develop real property in New York City, New York. The building is approximately 14,500 square feet, with approximately 3,500 square feet utilized by the Company for its offices, and the remaining space is unoccupied and available for lease.
3, 2013 10:45 AM ET | About: AmBase Corp. (ABCP) by: Chris Karlin. My initial thesis-that the discount to cash at Ambase (OTCPK:ABCP) would narrow when the 12/31/12 financials were recognized-did not play out and is no longer applicable. However, given the change in events and the dramatically lower stock price, I believe Ambase currently offers a very intriguing reward-to-risk profile. After the close on 6/21/13, Ambase filed an 8-K providing minimal detail on a real estate joint venture deal it had entered.