Save. A skin graft is a portion of skin taken from another area of your body or from an animal or other source, and attached by a surgeon to replace skin that has been damaged. Skin grafts are commonly used for burns, scars and large wounds. There are two types of skin grafts. The doctor will give you specific instructions depending on the location of the skin graft on your body. If the skin graft area is an arm or leg, keep it raised above your heart for the first 24-48 hours after surgery to prevent blood clots.
The donor area of partial thickness skin grafts will usually take about two weeks to heal. For full thickness skin grafts, the donor area only takes about 5 to 10 days to heal, because it's normally quite small and closed with stitches. At first, the grafted area will appear reddish-purple, but it should fade over time. It can take a year or two for the appearance of the skin to settle down completely
For a skin graft to heal, it must grow and activate new blood vessels. In a successful graft, this regeneration process begins as quickly as 36 hours after surgery [source: Medline Plus ]. Because oxygen is so important to the healing process, some doctors prescribe hyperbaric oxygen therapy. The healing process for skin grafts can be slow, depending on the severity of the wound and the size and depth of the donor sites. Patients who receive full-thickness grafts may need to stay in the hospital for as long as two weeks to keep the graft stabilized and infection-free
Split thickness grafts on the lower legs in elderly patients take the longest to heal. Donor sites (from where the graft is harvested) take between 5 days (full thickness donor site) to 3 weeks (split thickness graft) to heal up. Posted On: Oct 19, 2013. Healing times range from 9-21 days, depending on the type of skin graft, the location of the graft and other factors, including your general health and circulation. Full thickness grafts on the nose and ears heal the fastest.
Healing times range from 9-21 days, depending on the type of skin graft, the location of the graft and other factors, including your general health and circulation. Posted On: Oct 19, 2013. Healing times range from 9-21 days, depending on the type of skin graft, the location of the graft and other factors, including your general health and circulation. Full thickness grafts on the nose and ears heal the fastest.
The healing process for a skin graft operation can last for several weeks, depending on the wound's severity and the source of the skin graft. The healing process for skin grafts can be slow, depending on the severity of the wound and the size and depth of the donor sites. Patients who receive full-thickness grafts may need to stay in the hospital for as long as two weeks to keep the graft stabilized and infection-free
Remember that the donor site may take a couple a weeks to heal, too. All skin grafts leave scars, both in the donor site area and the graft itself. Full-thickness grafts leave a less noticeable scar, because they contain functional blood vessels. The healing process for skin grafts can be slow, depending on the severity of the wound and the size and depth of the donor sites. Patients who receive full-thickness grafts may need to stay in the hospital for as long as two weeks to keep the graft stabilized and infection-free
The recovery from surgery is usually rapid after split thickness skin grafting. The skin graft must be protected from trauma or significant stretching for 2-3 weeks. Depending on the location of the graft, a dressing may be necessary for 1-2 weeks. Exercise that might stretch or injure the graft should be avoided for 3-4 weeks. Source(s): do you mean skin graft...well, it all depends how quickly you heal normally, it usually heals within a fortnight, but then againit all depends on the area covered.