A rhythmic dance performed to reggae or ska music, characterized by bending forward, raising the knees, and extending the hands. intr.v. skanked, skank·ing, skanks. To dance the skank. [Jamaican English, to loaf, be shifty, be cunning, dance the skank; perhaps akin to skank .]. skank 1. n. Slang. 1. One who is filthy or foul. 2. One who is considered to be sexually promiscuous. Used especially of a woman. [ Origin unknown .]. skank′y adj.
Skanking. The bizarre, wild dance done to the music known as Ska. Not to be confused with a,  skank  skanking resembles running in place while flailing your arms. While popular at Ska shows, it is more acceptable at other mixed venues to simply join the mosh. Unskilled skankers are sometimes mistaken for seizure victims. Ex: Good Skanker: Most Reel Big Fish fans.
Check out more at Music Times. Sources suggest that skanking is a Jamaican dance, often associated with Ska. It is a form of dancing originating in Jamaica, now most notably done in Ska/Reggae shows. A more violent form of skanking is often found in punk or shows. 
Then shift to the left.) The most familiar form of skanking today is the Two-Tone Ska style in which you add a kick forward with every beat. Skanking is most often done in a group, either in a general pit (such as in a most pit) or by skanking around in a circle. Not to be confused with a,  skank  skanking resembles running in place while flailing your arms. While popular at Ska shows, it is more acceptable at other mixed venues to simply join the mosh. Unskilled skankers are sometimes mistaken for seizure victims. Ex: Good Skanker: Most Reel Big Fish fans.
Skank may refer to: 1  a slang term for a promiscuous person. 2  Skank (guitar) , a guitar technique used in reggae, ska, and rocksteady. 3  Skank (dance) , a form of dance related to ska, grime and hardcore punk. 4  Skank (band) , a Brazilian rock/pop/reggae/ska band. 5  Skank (album) , the band's self-titled debut album. 1
A more violent form of skanking is often found in punk or hardcore shows. There are many forms of skanking, varying from extreme movement to very little movement at all. To skank: First, feel the beat. Get those arms swinging slightly and feel the bounce as you swing your hips. Not to be confused with a,  skank  skanking resembles running in place while flailing your arms. While popular at Ska shows, it is more acceptable at other mixed venues to simply join the mosh. Unskilled skankers are sometimes mistaken for seizure victims. Ex: Good Skanker: Most Reel Big Fish fans.
How to Skank. Skanking is a two-step dance done mainly at ska, punk, and reggae concerts. Wild, personalized, and found in dance halls since the 1950's-- skanking is one of the easiest dance forms to pick up anywhere, anytime. Skanking is meant to be group dance-- forming skank lines, skank circles, or taking your dance into a skank pit. The only way to learn is to do it, and to do it with other people. 8. Make the dance your own.
Skanking is a form of dancing practiced in the ska, ska punk, hardcore punk, reggae, jump-up (a drum and bass subgenre) and other music scenes. The dance style originated in the 1950s or 1960s at Jamaican dance halls, where ska music was played. 
0. General Comment easy skanking meaning dancing (skanking is a type of dance done by lovers of ska music, AKA-rudies and slowly in reggae tunes). sounds to me like he's dancing and lighting his spliff nothing better, if you ask me. teresaa311 on April 12, 2005 Link. No Replies Log in to reply. There was an error.