When finance charges are taken into account, the actual cost paid for the construction and financing of the bridge, when it is paid off in 2049, will be more than $12 billion. That is almost twice what any state agency has previously acknowledged. “Sunny Jim,” as he was known, died during his first term as governor, before he could see his dream of the first bay crossing realized. The span opened to traffic in 1936, after three years of construction that cost $77 million. For the next half a century, millions of commuters took the bridge for granted, navigating its 4.5 miles between Oakland and San Francisco
The contemplations and conversations characteristic of indecision can contribute to identity construction. That said, cognitive and cultural preoccupation with rational decision-making mean that individuals may not recognize, let alone appreciate, these periods of identity development for what they are. This paper argues that they think and they talk to others about what they might do (Carver et al., 1989, Louis and Sutton, 1991, Omarzu, 2000 and Yaniv, 2004). Contemplation and conversation about impending choice are the behavioral pillars of indecision.
Which of these forms of identity construction is emphasized during a period of indecision may depend on a combination of the decision being faced, the extent to which an indecisive decision-maker engages in contemplation versus discourse, and the socio-cognitive tasks on which a decision-maker spends the most time. This paper argues that they think and they talk to others about what they might do (Carver et al., 1989, Louis and Sutton, 1991, Omarzu, 2000 and Yaniv, 2004). Contemplation and conversation about impending choice are the behavioral pillars of indecision.
Abstract. This paper proposes a theoretically grounded definition of indecision and considers one of indecision’s potential functions. It argues that, despite a reputation as mere choice pathology, indecision may play an important role in identity formation and maintenance. This paper argues that they think and they talk to others about what they might do (Carver et al., 1989, Louis and Sutton, 1991, Omarzu, 2000 and Yaniv, 2004). Contemplation and conversation about impending choice are the behavioral pillars of indecision.
The $2,000 cost of removal and disposal and the $4,000 cost of furnishing and installing the original 100’ run of 24” concrete pipe is shown as premium although the contractor has already been paid for the furnish and install. The 6500 cy of regular excavation is shown as non premium costs valued at 6,500 cy times the contract unit price of $8/CY = $52,000 per Spec. 12-14. The Contractor estimates the work will take 20 days. The contractor has been working a 5 day week so far.
What the ultimate cost of a fast train ride between Northern and Southern California will be is anybody’s guess. Although estimated to run nearly $20 billion with interest, it’s almost certain to go over budget like most other major transportation construction projects—including the Bay Bridge. “Sunny Jim,” as he was known, died during his first term as governor, before he could see his dream of the first bay crossing realized. The span opened to traffic in 1936, after three years of construction that cost $77 million. For the next half a century, millions of commuters took the bridge for granted, navigating its 4.5 miles between Oakland and San Francisco
Dear Compaq, My answer is general because there is a great range in construction costs from basic quality to luxury quality. The cost of remodeling is the same per square foot as the cost of new construction for the same quality per square foot. A nice quality remodel is around $200 per square foot. Now, many people use the word remodel when they mean update.
One way ofcomputing the capital waste is to compute the cost of the extracapital that is deployed (both by way of increased time taken forproject implementation, and due to cost overruns), using a notionalreturn to capital which is the approximate cost of capital. One need notattach much importance to the exact value of the figure, but that it isvery nearly at 200% is indicative of the enormous waste of capitalresources that is there in public sector project implementation.Sectoral patternsThe sectoral pattern of cost and time overruns is interesting. SeeTable 2.