Neosporin is the brand name for a product produced by Johnson & Johnson that contains Neomycin Sulfate, Polymyxin B, and Bacitracin Zinc. There is no exact date to when the antibacterial ointment was invented, but it was used as early as the 1950s. Neosporin is for external use only and should not go near mucus membranes such as the eyes or mouth. Neosporin is not recommended for children under the age of two. There are no known side effects when using Neosporin, however users should immediately seek medical attention when experiencing hives, rashes, or itching.
Neosporin has three antibiotics in it to prevent infection, so it's not really like aloe. QUOTE(rubber sheep @ Mar 15 2006, 07:40 PM). Aloe vera is the herbal solution that comes to mind that is most similar. They are both used to heal skin, but I think Neosporin may work faster but there's a point atleast for me where my skin gets resistant to Neo and I have to stop for awhile. topical: tea tree oil soap. qh mint julep mask. hydrogen peroxide for occassional spot treatment. 
Report Abuse. neosporin is an american brand which havea lot of products, but i assume that its eczema or something, so try E45 thats a brand, and they do lotions and cream and everything, and ats really good for your skin. expand upon what you want to use it for. Greg B · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. The technical generic name for it is neomycin. Here is Neosporin's FAQ, which lists the active ingrediants. http://www.neosporin.com/firstaid/neospo... You may want to compare the active ingrediants to products on Boot's web page on first aid products: http://www.boots.com/webapp/wcs/stores/s...
Aug 3 • Consumer Education, Products, Treatment • 2915 Views • Comments Off on Bactroban: The Alternative to Neosporin. Bactroban is a brand name medication for mupirocin, an antibiotic that treats skin infections caused by bacteria. It is not effective against fungal and viral infections. 
I couldn't find it in the UK and it is super frustrating!!! In the UK, because neosporin contains antibiotics, you need a prescription to get it!!! UGH! Sorry. Anyway. If it is available in Ireland, it would be in a pharmacy (chemist). Ask one of the people working there for help. If it's not called neosporin any antibiotic ointment. If they don't sell it, then I was able to use a combination of antibacterial soap on cuts etc and then apply a thick moisturizer like vaseline or lip salve.
The original ointment contains three different antibiotics: bacitracin, neomycin, and polymyxin B, in a relatively low-molecular-weight patented base of cocoa butter, cottonseed oil, sodium pyruvate, tocopheryl acetate, and petroleum jelly. Neosporin is for external use only and should not go near mucus membranes such as the eyes or mouth. Neosporin is not recommended for children under the age of two. There are no known side effects when using Neosporin, however users should immediately seek medical attention when experiencing hives, rashes, or itching.
This Site Might Help You. RE: Is triple antibiotic ointment the same thing as neosporin? i have a scratch on my face and i got stabbed with a pencil and my mom dosent have the money right now for neosporin. so she bought me dg triple antibiotic ointment. will it make those scratches go away before prom in 9 days? 
Brenda 0 Neosporin is an antibiotic with three components: neomycin sulfate, polymixin B sulfate and bacitracin. A & D Ointment contains Lanolin and Petrolatum.Neosporin can be used for cuts, scrapes, and burns. You can apply A+D ointment for Psoriasis, burns, dry cracked hands, diaper rashes. Sep 17th, 2012 at 3:46 PM Reply. Brenda. A & D Ointment contains Lanolin and Petrolatum.Neosporin can be used for cuts, scrapes, and burns. You can apply A+D ointment for Psoriasis, burns, dry cracked hands, diaper rashes. 0. Sep 17th, 2012 at 3:46 PM.
Concern exists that the use of Neosporin contributes to the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. In the US, the only large market for Neosporin, the ointment may promote the prevalence of MRSA bacteria, specifically the highly lethal ST8:USA300 strain. Neosporin is for external use only and should not go near mucus membranes such as the eyes or mouth. Neosporin is not recommended for children under the age of two. There are no known side effects when using Neosporin, however users should immediately seek medical attention when experiencing hives, rashes, or itching.
Brenda. Neosporin is an antibiotic with three components: neomycin sulfate, polymixin B sulfate and bacitracin. A & D Ointment contains Lanolin and Petrolatum.Neosporin can be used for cuts, scrapes, and burns. You can apply A+D ointment for Psoriasis, burns, dry cracked hands, diaper rashes. Sep 17th, 2012 at 3:46 PM Reply. Brenda. A & D Ointment contains Lanolin and Petrolatum.Neosporin can be used for cuts, scrapes, and burns. You can apply A+D ointment for Psoriasis, burns, dry cracked hands, diaper rashes. 0. Sep 17th, 2012 at 3:46 PM.