Digestive System. This system is where food is broken down, or digested. Its organs include the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, rectum, and anus. The mouth, stomach, and the lining of the small intestine contain tiny glands that produce juices to help digest food. The liver and the pancreas also produce digestive juices that reach the intestine and help the process of digestion. Alcohol is not digested like other foods
Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream. Digestion is a form of catabolism that is often divided into two processes based on how food is broken down: mechanical and chemical digestion. When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes with digestive enzymes from the pancreas and bile juice from the liver and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues. When the chyme is fully digested, it is absorbed into the blood. 95% of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine. Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon (large intestine) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9
Types of Carbohydrates. There are three main types of carbohydrates: starches, sugars and dietary fiber. Starches and sugars are considered the energy-yielding carbohydrates because they are fully digestible and, once absorbed, they provide the body with 4 calories of energy per gram of carbohydrate. Similarly, the three major enzymes which break apart sugars -- sucrase, maltase and lactase -- are also found in the mouth and in the small intestine. Once these digested starches and sugars begin to move through the small intestine, they are able to be absorbed.
In the typical Western diet, digestion and absorption of carbohydrates is fast and takes place usually in the upper small intestine. However, when the diet contains carbohydrates not easily digestible, digestion and absorption take place mainly in the ileal portion of the intestine. Digestion of food continues while simplest elements are absorbed. The absorption of most digested food occurs in the small intestine through the brush border of the epithelium covering the villi (small hair-like structure).
When carbohydrates are not fully digested or absorbed, they are eliminated from the body. Dietary fiber is one of the carbohydrates which humans cannot digest, thus dietary fiber is the most commonly excreted type of carbohydrate. Similarly, the three major enzymes which break apart sugars -- sucrase, maltase and lactase -- are also found in the mouth and in the small intestine. Once these digested starches and sugars begin to move through the small intestine, they are able to be absorbed.
The two digestible carbohydrates are starches and sugars, and both of these carbohydrates are digested, or broken down into their most elementary form, along the gastrointestinal tract. Amylase, an enzyme which breaks apart starches, is found in the mouth and in the small intestine. Similarly, the three major enzymes which break apart sugars -- sucrase, maltase and lactase -- are also found in the mouth and in the small intestine. Once these digested starches and sugars begin to move through the small intestine, they are able to be absorbed.
As the food is digested in the small intestine and dissolved into the juices from the pancreas, liver, and intestine, the contents of the intestine are mixed and pushed forward to allow further digestion. Glands of the digestive system are crucial to the process of digestion. Starch is digested in two steps: First, an enzyme in the saliva and pancreatic juice breaks the starch into molecules called maltose; then an enzyme in the lining of the small intestine (maltase) splits the maltose into glucose molecules that can be absorbed into the blood.
Large Intestine (Colon). Carbohydrates that were not digested and absorbed by the small intestine reach the colon where they are partly broken down by intestinal bacteria. Fiber, which cannot be digested like other carbohydrates, is excreted with feces or partly digested by the intestinal bacteria. 