Step 3. - Transform Selection. To soften edges of a photo you need to tell Elements where to begin fading away your photo's edges. That's the reason for this step. Go way down to the Lower-left of your window. Make sure that Tool Options (instead of Photo Bin) is active. You can tell that it's active by the lite gray box around it. Step 1. - Duplicate The Background Layer. Let's duplicate the Background Layer so that our changes are made on the duplicate and our original Background Layer remains safely untouched, you know, in case we screw up. Go to the Layers panel and click-and-drag the Background Layer onto the Create New Layer icon.
Click on the Layer Mask icon at the bottom of the Layers palette. Nothing happens to the image in the document window, but we can see in the Layers palette that we now have a layer mask thumbnail added to Layer 1: The Layers palette in Photoshop showing the layer mask thumbnail. Step 4: Invert Layer 1. So far, we've used the High Pass filter to sharpen all the edge details in the image, but what we really want to do is smooth and soften everything that is not an edge detail, like the woman's skin. In other words, we want the opposite of what we currently have.
The Layers palette in Photoshop showing the original image on the Background layer. I know I say this in every tutorial, but it can't be stressed enough how important it is to leave the original image information untouched. If we lose it and we make a mistake, we have nothing to fall back on. Step 4: Invert Layer 1. So far, we've used the High Pass filter to sharpen all the edge details in the image, but what we really want to do is smooth and soften everything that is not an edge detail, like the woman's skin. In other words, we want the opposite of what we currently have.
Soft edges on a photo, also known as feathered edges or feathering, is an attractive effect that is really easy to do. Feathering makes a gradient of opacity in a border around the feathered object. This means that, at the inside edge, the photo is fully opaque so you can't see through it. Paste the selection onto the new layer of the new image by selecting Paste from the Edit menu, making sure the layer you created in Step 6 is selected. If you can't see the feathering, select the background layer and change its color to one that contrasts with the colors in the photo.
Instructions. Open a digital photo file in Photoshop. Select Open from the File menu. Click on the thumbnail of the image you want to use, and click on the Open button. Select the Marquee tool, which is near the top of the toolbar. Paste the selection onto the new layer of the new image by selecting Paste from the Edit menu, making sure the layer you created in Step 6 is selected. If you can't see the feathering, select the background layer and change its color to one that contrasts with the colors in the photo.
How to soften wrinkles using masks in Adobe Photoshop CS5 - 5. Select the Brush Tool Click and hold down on the icon and then select Brush Tool Change the Opacity to around 30%Change the Flow to around 30% How to soften wrinkles using masks in Adobe Photoshop CS5 - 6. Change the foreground color to white. How to soften wrinkles using masks in Adobe Photoshop CS5 - 7.
In this Photoshop tutorial, we'll learn an easy way to soften and smooth someone's skin in a photo without blurring out important image details, such as the person's eyes and mouth. Step 4: Invert Layer 1. So far, we've used the High Pass filter to sharpen all the edge details in the image, but what we really want to do is smooth and soften everything that is not an edge detail, like the woman's skin. In other words, we want the opposite of what we currently have.
Step 1. Open the photo that you want to alter within Photoshop. Step 2. Click on one of the Marquee tools from the Photoshop toolbar. If you want to soften the edges of your photo in a rectangular or square fashion, select the Rectangular Marquee tool. If your image is round or another shape, select the Elliptical Marquee tool. Drag your cursor around the image, creating a border around the image where you want the edges to be softened. Step 4. Click Select, from the top menu, and then click Modify, and then click Feather.. This opens a Feather Selection dialog box.