Keeping your blood sugar at the right level is a very important part of managing your diabetes. It is the best way to help you stay healthy and reduce the risk of long-term complications of diabetes. Blood sugar is also called blood glucose. Sometimes your blood glucose may be too high or too low. This can happen for many different reasons. It is important for you to know when your blood glucose is too high or too low and what to do about it. There are two blood tests that help you manage your diabetes. One of these is called self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) when you check your blood sugar several times each day with a glucose meter. The other test is called an A1c which measures your blood sugar control over the past two to three months.
A blood glucose test measures the amount of a sugar called glucose in a sample of your blood. Glucose is a major source of energy for most cells of the body, including brain cells. Why the Test Is Performed. Your doctor may order this test if you have signs of diabetes. More than likely, the doctor will order a fasting blood sugar test. The blood glucose test is also used to monitor patients who already have diabetes.
Glucose can be measured in whole blood or serum (ie, plasma). Earlier blood glucose was measured in whole blood. Nowadays serum is extracted from blood and glucose is measured in the serum. Whole blood and serum blood glucose is often different. The earlier method used to measure blood sugar is a chemical method that exploits the ''nonspecific reducing'' property of glucose in a reaction with an indicator substance that changes color when reduced.
The fasting blood glucose level, which is measured after a fast of 8 hours, is the most commonly used indication of overall glucose homeostasis, largely because disturbing events such as food intake are avoided. Conditions affecting glucose levels are shown in the table below. The actual amount of glucose in the blood and body fluids is very small. In a healthy adult male of 75 kg with a blood volume of 5 liters, a blood glucose level of 5.5 mmol/L (100 mg/dL) amounts to 5g, slightly less than two typical American restaurant sugar packets for coffee or tea.
(FBG). This is measured after overnight fasting. Blood glucose normally is lowest early in the morning after 6 to 8 hours of fasting overnight. Two hours post prandial blood glucose or PPG is the next common test. The earlier method used to measure blood sugar is a chemical method that exploits the ''nonspecific reducing'' property of glucose in a reaction with an indicator substance that changes color when reduced.
Last reviewed: August 5, 2014. A blood glucose test measures the amount of a sugar called glucose in a sample of your blood. Glucose is a major source of energy for most cells of the body, including brain cells. Carbohydrates are found in fruit, cereal, bread, pasta, and rice. Why the Test Is Performed. Your doctor may order this test if you have signs of diabetes. More than likely, the doctor will order a fasting blood sugar test. The blood glucose test is also used to monitor patients who already have diabetes.
This test measures the amount of glucose (sugar) in blood. This test is done after fasting. This test is used to diagnose diabetes mellitus, prediabetes, hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), and hyperglycemia (high blood sugar)[1]. 
Methods of blood sugar measurement. The earlier method used to measure blood sugar is a chemical method that exploits the ''nonspecific reducing'' property of glucose in a reaction with an indicator substance that changes color when reduced.
The blood sugar concentration or blood glucose level is the amount of glucose (sugar) present in the blood of a human or animal. The body naturally tightly regulates blood glucose levels as a part of metabolic homeostasis. The actual amount of glucose in the blood and body fluids is very small. In a healthy adult male of 75 kg with a blood volume of 5 liters, a blood glucose level of 5.5 mmol/L (100 mg/dL) amounts to 5g, slightly less than two typical American restaurant sugar packets for coffee or tea.
The normal blood glucose level (tested while fasting) for non-diabetics, should be between 3.9 and 5.5 mmol/L (70 to 100 mg/dL). The mean normal blood glucose level in humans is about 5.5 mmol/L (100 mg/dL); however, this level fluctuates throughout the day. The actual amount of glucose in the blood and body fluids is very small. In a healthy adult male of 75 kg with a blood volume of 5 liters, a blood glucose level of 5.5 mmol/L (100 mg/dL) amounts to 5g, slightly less than two typical American restaurant sugar packets for coffee or tea.