Lymph node: Also sometimes referred to as lymph glands, lymph nodes are small rounded or bean-shaped masses of lymphatic tissue surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue. Lymph nodes are located in many places in the lymphatic system throughout the body. Lymph nodes filter the lymphatic fluid and store special cells that can trap cancer cells or bacteria that are traveling through the body in the lymph fluid.
1 Lymph nodes are important part of the immune system. 2  Lymph nodes are located throughout the body, but visible and palpable only when they are enlarged or swollen. 3  Lymph nodes are regional, and each group of them corresponds to a particular region of the body and reflects abnormalities in that region.
Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped glands throughout the body. They are part of the lymph system, which carries fluid (lymph fluid), nutrients, and waste material between the body tissues and the bloodstream. The lymph system is an important part of the immune system, the body's defense system against disease.
Lymph nodes are small glands that filter lymph, the clear fluid that circulates through the lymphatic system. They become swollen in response to infection and tumors. Lymphatic fluid circulates through the lymphatic system, which is made of channels throughout your body that are similar to blood vessels.
Throughout your body, there are locations where lymph nodes are found. They are small and bean-shaped that are found in groups that filter lymph fluid throughout specific areas of the body.
Your lymphatic system comprises a network of organs, vessels and numerous lymph nodes situated throughout your body. Most of your lymph nodes are located in your head and neck region. Lymph nodes that frequently swell are in this area, as well as in your armpits and groin area.
Know where the lymph nodes are located. You have the highest concentration of lymph nodes in your neck, around your collarbone, in your armpits, and in your groin. 1  Lymph nodes are present in groups, and are about the size of a pea or bean. 2  Lymph nodes located in the groin are also called inguinal lymph nodes.