The fronds of a fennel plant do look similar to the dill leaves, though their taste is quite different. The anise flavour from fennel is a lot stronger than dill. It is not recommended to substitute fennel leaves for dill. 
1 Dill does not grow well when transplanted, so start the seeds fresh in the garden in early summer. 2  Make sure to shelter the plants from strong winds. 3  After 10 to 14 days, the plants should appear in the soil. 4  Wait another 10 to 14 days, then thin the plants to about 12 to 18 inches apart. Plant it, pick it, let it go to seed and love it. You better love it because little dill plants will pop up everywhere in the garden. :) I have dill as a vegie. I'm a vegetable gardener type of the 'grow everything and eat what grows well'. My comments also work for silver beet, eat it and let it go to seed.
Dill is a plant that has a long history as a culinary spice. But it has also been used as a magic weapon and a medicine. During the Middle Ages, people used dill to defend against witchcraft and enchantments. More recently, people have used dill seeds and the parts of the plant that grow above the ground as medicine. 
If you wish to harvest dill seeds, allow the plant to grow without trimming until it goes into bloom. Once dill weed plants go into bloom, they will stop growing leaves, so make sure that you do not harvest any leaves from that plant. The dill flower will fade and will develop the seed pods. When the seed pods have turned brown, cut the whole flower head off and place in a paper bag. The best way how to grow dill is directly from seeds rather than from a transplant. Planting dill seed is easy. Dill planting is simply done by scattering the seeds in the desired location after the last frost, then lightly cover the seeds with soil.
Origin of Plant. Dill is an annual of the carrot family native to the Mediterranean region and southern Russia. It grows as a field weed in southern Europe and naturalizes in Mediterranean climates. The word dill comes from a Norwegian word dilla, meaning to soothe, based on its medicinal uses. The seedlings do not transplant well, so seed should be planted where it will grow when the soil warms to about 50 degrees Fahrenheit. The growing site should be in full sun and in an area protected from high wind as the stalks of dill are thin and hollow.
Dill (Anethum graveolens) is a common herb that has been used since ancient times. The whole plant, with immature seeds, is known as dill weed. It is generally used in soups, salads, fish, potatoes and other dishes. The mature seed heads are used to make dill pickles. Dill was used medicinally in the Middle Ages. The seedlings do not transplant well, so seed should be planted where it will grow when the soil warms to about 50 degrees Fahrenheit. The growing site should be in full sun and in an area protected from high wind as the stalks of dill are thin and hollow.
Dill seed, having a flavor similar to caraway but also resembling that of fresh or dried dill weed, is used as a spice. Dill oil is extracted from the leaves, stems and seeds of the plant. 
1. Select the seeds from a nursery or garden center or collect some from someone who has dill growing. Dill is very easily grown from seed sown in later spring to early summer. Bear in mind that dill does not transplant well, and is best being sown direct where it will continue to grow. 1  Select an area where permanent regrowth of dill won't bother you; dill will easily self-sow after you've first planted it. An annual plant, dill (Anethum graveolens) can grow up to 120cm/4 feet (1.2 m) in height, with a spread of about 30cm/1 foot (0.3 m). The term dill comes from the Norse word dilla which meant to lull or soothe because dill water used to be given to infants and adults to ease internal gas or wind problems.