Most bioprocessing technician positions require a two-year associate's degree in applied science, though some positions may be available for those with only high school educations. Bioprocessing technicians operate equipment, measure chemicals and formulate complex products, among other tasks. Most of the work is completed in a clean-room, so sterilization is exceedingly important for the preservation of product quality.
Cell culture technicians grow living cells in culture flasks, bioreactors, plates and other kinds of containers. The types of cells they grow can come from plants or animals. Some of the newer cell culture techniques allow stem cells to be grown in culture. Stem cells are special cells that can give rise to multiple cell types when given the proper kinds of hormones and growth factors. These cells are being investigated for possible medical treatments.
It depends on what type of lab tech you are. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) in 2010, the median income for a dental lab tech was $16.90/hour, or $35,140 a year. For an ophthalmic lab tech, it was $13.45/hour, or $27,970 a year. Medical and clinical lab techs made a median income of $22.44/hour, or $46,680 annually. Ophthalmic and dental lab techs can typically get started with only a high school diploma, and will learn most of their skills on the job.
Cell culture involves growing cells from animals, plants, insects, and fungi in culture. This is done because it's easier to do experiments on individual cells than on animals. It's also easier to produce large quantities of proteins from cell cultures than from animals. Some of the newer cell culture techniques allow stem cells to be grown in culture. Stem cells are special cells that can give rise to multiple cell types when given the proper kinds of hormones and growth factors. These cells are being investigated for possible medical treatments.
TITLE Lab Technician, Protein and Cell Sciences. The successful candidate’s primary responsibility is to produce and deliver large and small-scale media and... 
Average Bioreactor Technician Salaries. The average salary for bioreactor technician jobs is $48,000. Average bioreactor technician salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term bioreactor technician anywhere in the job listing. The bioreactor technician salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional bioreactor technician salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
Biomanufacturing Technician-Upstream. Upstream Biomanufacturing Technicians work with living cells or other forms of biological materials They grow cells in specialized environments and ensure that cells with transfected genes have the factors they need to grow and produce the desired proteins.
Technician, Operations Job. A Manufacturing Technician is primarily involved in the manufacturing process; Technicians may work with a variety of technical equipment while completing cell... 4 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all MSD jobs in Millsboro, DE-Millsboro jobs. 2  Salary Search: Technician salaries in Millsboro, DE