Amazon Prime offers 2-day delivery, while Google Express guarantees your purchases on the same day or overnight. While Amazon Prime offers same or next-day delivery in select cities, there's a $5.99 charge per delivery. Google's is included in the membership.
That’s on top of an annual subscription fee. Like Amazon Prime, Google Express is available via subscription, priced at $95 per year (just a smidge under the cost of Prime) or $10 per month. Members then get free same-day delivery of all orders with a minimum purchase of $15.
Google Express members enjoy: 1  Fast, free delivery on eligible orders 2  *. Shared membership with someone in your household. 3  3-month free trial for new customers**. 4  Cold grocery & alcohol delivery starting at $2.99 per store (coming soon to some San Francisco and Los Angeles addresses).
On Monday, Google announced that the express online shopping-and-shipping service it has been testing for months in northern California and parts of Los Angeles and New York City is expanding to three more cities: Boston, Chicago, and Washington, D.C.
It's now called Google Express, and it costs $95 per year or a flat fee of $4.99 per order (or $7.99 per order if it's under $15). And there's no need to tip the person delivering your goods. According to Google, the drivers are compensated accordingly.. You also get three months free, and orders above $15 can be delivered in the same day for free. (Orders below $15 will cost $3 per order for same-day delivery.). That's a paltry sum for the amount of time and energy I'm saving.
Google rebranded Boost to AdWords Express this week and along with that came huge price increases on the CPC (cost per click) side for some AdWords Express advertisers. Local search expert, Mike Blumenthal, said in a Google Places Help thread that all of a sudden his CPC jumped 400% for his keywords. He said:
Google is expanding its delivery service to Boston, Washington DC, and Chicago. The service, which is already in some California cities and New York, costs $10 per month, or $95 a year, according to The Wall Street Journal. The fee gets you unlimited same-day or overnight delivery on orders over $15.