Ampicillin is the generic name of a drug that's prescribed to treat bacterial infections. It was once sold under several brand names, such as Omnipen, Amcill, and Principen. Though these brand names are no longer on the market, your health care provider can prescribe generic ampicillin to treat infections such as pneumonia, bronchitis, urinary tract infections, meningitis, and typhoid fever.
Uses. Ampicillin (Ampicillin) is a penicillin antibiotic medicine used for the treatment of infections where bacteria are the primary cause. It works by blocking the formation of bacterial cell walls. * Our best price : $ 2.50. Ampicillin (Ampicillin) is a penicillin antibiotic medicine used for the treatment of infections where bacteria are the primary cause. It works by blocking the formation of bacterial cell walls.
Ampicillin has been used extensively to treat bacterial infections since 1961. Until the introduction of ampicillin by the British company Beecham, penicillin therapies had only been effective against Gram-positive organisms such as staphylococci and streptococci. Ampicillin acts as an irreversible inhibitor of the enzyme transpeptidase, which is needed by bacteria to make their cell walls. It inhibits the third and final stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis in binary fission, which ultimately leads to cell lysis; therefore ampicillin is usually bacteriocidal.
Ampicillin and sulbactam combination is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. Ampicillin and sulbactam combination is an antibiotic that belongs to the group of medicines known as penicillins and beta-lactamase inhibitors. It works by killing the bacteria and preventing their growth. However, this medicine will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections
Ampicillin is a version of penicillin that is able to last longer, resist stomach acid, and kill some gram-negative bacteria as well as the gram-positive bacteria. It is often used to prevent and treat infections found in cuts and wounds, the mouth, the upper respiratory system, and the bladder. 
Ampicillin is an antibiotic used to prevent and treat a number of bacterial infections. This includes respiratory tract infections, urinary tract infections, meningitis, salmonella infections, and endocarditis. It may also be used to prevent group B streptococcal infection in newborns. Ampicillin acts as an irreversible inhibitor of the enzyme transpeptidase, which is needed by bacteria to make their cell walls. It inhibits the third and final stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis in binary fission, which ultimately leads to cell lysis; therefore ampicillin is usually bacteriocidal.
Ampicillin is in the penicillin group of beta-lactam antibiotics and is part of the aminopenicillin family. It is roughly equivalent to amoxicillin in terms of activity. However it can be injected unlike amoxicillin and has lower oral bioavailability compared to amoxicillin. Ampicillin acts as an irreversible inhibitor of the enzyme transpeptidase, which is needed by bacteria to make their cell walls. It inhibits the third and final stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis in binary fission, which ultimately leads to cell lysis; therefore ampicillin is usually bacteriocidal.
Ampicillin is an antibiotic in the penicillin group of drugs. It fights bacteria in your body. Ampicillin is used to treat many different types of infections caused by bacteria, such as ear infections, bladder infections, pneumonia, gonorrhea, and E. coli or salmonella infection. Ampicillin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Do not use this medication if you are allergic to ampicillin or to any other penicillin antibiotic, such as amoxicillin (Amoxil), carbenicillin (Geocillin), dicloxacillin (Dycill, Dynapen), oxacillin (Bactocill), penicillin (Beepen-VK, Ledercillin VK, Pen-V, Pen-Vee K, Pfizerpen, V-Cillin K, Veetids), and others.