Bogs are a type of wetland containing moss, peat and acidic waters. They can be found in certain low-lying areas that have relatively moist climates with ample precipitation. Bogs require this humid climate to retain the wetness that characterizes them. Bogs are more plentiful in the northern hemisphere than the southern, particularly in areas once covered by glaciers. Southern United States. Special types of bogs known as pocosins can be found in parts of the southeastern United States along the Atlantic Coastal Plain. They differ from the northern bogs in that they typically don’t feature standing water, though their soils are still very moist.
bog bodies are mummified bodies of people or animals, that are found in peat bogs. They are preserved for many years under the mud, and many of the ones found are dated … back to the Iron Age. Bog bodies are preserved by all the acid in the ground, and their discovery spots are often in Europe. Moss can be found in bogs and swamps and in many countries is used  as a form of fuel. There is many types of mosses, one type is  called Sphagnum. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Using Life Experiences as a Geography Lesson Using personal experience is the best way to learn and understand new concept.
Northern United States. In the United States, bogs are mainly found in the Northeast and Great Lakes states. Many of these bogs lie within ancient glacial lakebeds. Some, particularly in New England, serve as nurseries for cranberries. Southern United States. Special types of bogs known as pocosins can be found in parts of the southeastern United States along the Atlantic Coastal Plain. They differ from the northern bogs in that they typically don’t feature standing water, though their soils are still very moist.
Bogs are sometimes called quagmires (technically all bogs are quagmires while not all quagmires are necessarily bogs) and the soil which composes them is sometimes referred to as muskeg; alkaline mires are called fens rather than bogs. 
Blanket Bogs Blanket bogs are found wherever there is high rainfall, which is typically in western Ireland and also in mountainous areas. They are called blanket bogs because of their appearance-from a distance they appear homogeneous and they hug the topography like a blanket. . One of Ireland's most characteristic features is the bog. Covering 1,200,000 hectares (1/6th) of the island, Ireland contains more bog, relatively speaking, than any country in Europe except Finland. Across Europe, as well as in Ireland, bogs have been exploited in recent centuries as a source of fuel.
Raised Bogs Raised bogs are found almost exclusively in central Ireland, chiefly in the Shannon basin. There are a few examples in Ulster and Munster, but the vast majority are to found in the midlands. Unlike blanket bogs, they were formed naturally. . One of Ireland's most characteristic features is the bog. Covering 1,200,000 hectares (1/6th) of the island, Ireland contains more bog, relatively speaking, than any country in Europe except Finland. Across Europe, as well as in Ireland, bogs have been exploited in recent centuries as a source of fuel.
There are two ways that bogs are formed in Michigan: kettle-lake bogs, and paludification bogs. These processes may take thousands of years. In the Great Lakes region various estimates for forming a single foot of peat range from 100 to 800 years. These unusual wetlands are home to a variety of plants and animals including unique bog lemmings, pitcher plants, and sundews. The familiar song sparrow and red-winged blackbird live there along with yellow-bellied flycatchers, and Nashville warblers, which nest only in northern Michigan.
Description. The bog turtle is New York's smallest turtle, reaching a maximum length of 4.5 inches. It is one of seventeen species of turtles found in New York State, including marine turtles. A bright yellow or orange blotch on each side of its head and neck are a distinctive feature of this species. 
Confidence votes 7. Bogs are most abundant in the Northern Hemisphere, especially in a broad belt including the northern part of the deciduous forest zone and the central and southern parts of the boreal forest zone. Farther south, and in drier climates farther inland, they become sporadic and restricted to specialized habitats. Moss can be found in bogs and swamps and in many countries is used  as a form of fuel. There is many types of mosses, one type is  called Sphagnum. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Using Life Experiences as a Geography Lesson Using personal experience is the best way to learn and understand new concept.