Answer 1: Some plastics wraps are permeable to gases (meaning they allow gases like air to pass through) while some others are not. Aluminium foil however, being a metal foil, has almost no permeability, meaning that no gas (air) can pass through. 
For a plastic wrap often used in bulk packaging, see Shrink wrap. A roll of plastic wrap in a box being dispensed to cover food. Plastic wrap, cling film (UK), cling wrap or food wrap, is a thin plastic film typically used for sealing food items in containers to keep them fresh over a longer period of time. The original Saran Wrap is made of polyvinylidene chloride (PVdC). In July 2004 the name Saran Original was changed to Saran Premium and the formulation was changed to LDPE. SC Johnson claimed that this change was a result of an initiative to look for more sustainable and environmentally acceptable plastic.
The AIR-SHIELD ™ line provides sheet-applied, liquid-applied, vapor-permeable air barriers to completely protect a building from air, vapor and moisture infiltration. AIR-SHIELD provides a complete above-grade air, vapor and water barrier on a variety of construction materials. 
HomeGuard Housewrap is a micro-perforated, woven weather resistive barrier. HomeGuard Drainage Wrap HP Plus and HomeGuard Drainage Wrap LP Plus are non-woven, non-perforated, water vapor permeable, air barriers. Both products protect the building envelope from air, wind, rain and moisture. HomeGuard Drainage Wrap HP Plus is a high permeable, non-woven, non-perforated housewrap. Also available is HomeGuard Drainage Wrap LP Plus, a low permeable solution for warmer climates. Both products meet Air Barrier criteria, are moisture vapor permeable, UV resistant, and translucent.
1 Cut squares of each plastic wrap large enough to wrap over the top of the bowl. 2  Tape each wrap around the bowl so that they’re all sealed. 3  Leave the “no wrap” bowl without any kind of wrap. 4  Use your kitchen scale to weigh each bowl, and note the results in your notebook. 5  Now, put each bowl on the counter for a week. Mylar is made out of polyethylene terephthalate, often abbreviated as PET. This is a less permeable plastic, but as you could see, but doesn't cling like the other plastic wraps you used. There are many factors that influence the way plastic wrap might keep something fresh. The thickness of the wrap will also change its permeability, and if two plastic wraps are made of the same polymer, the thicker wrap will be less permeable
Plastic wrap, typically sold on rolls in boxes with a cutting edge, clings to many smooth surfaces and can thus remain tight over the opening of a container without adhesive or other devices. Common plastic wrap is roughly 0.5 mils, or 12.5 µm, thick. The original Saran Wrap is made of polyvinylidene chloride (PVdC). In July 2004 the name Saran Original was changed to Saran Premium and the formulation was changed to LDPE. SC Johnson claimed that this change was a result of an initiative to look for more sustainable and environmentally acceptable plastic.
Plastic wrap is a form of food packaging consisting of a thin film of flexible, transparent polymer that clings to itself and to food containers to form a tight seal. The plastic keeps the food fresh by protecting it from air and by preventing dry foods from absorbing moisture and wet foods from losing moisture. 1 The film is wound around a large metal roller to form a roll that may hold several kilometers of plastic wrap. 2  The plastic film on these rolls is then unrolled, cut to the proper length (usually about 49 feet [15 m]) and width (about 1 foot [0.33 m]), and rerolled onto small cardboard tubes.
Protect your food, the fresh way! Saran™ Cling Plus® is your choice in a wrap that clings tightly to protect foods! Try using fresh vegetables like chopped red peppers, tomatoes and onions in your next pasta salad. After chopping vegetables, keep them fresh by covering with Saran ™ Wrap. 