Most taxpayers receive their state tax refunds in 21 days or less. Georgia State Tax Refund Status Information. You can check the status of your refund online at https://gtc.dor.ga.gov/_/#1. The Automated Information Line is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. You will need to have available: The Social Security Number listed on the Individual Income Tax Return and. The exact whole dollar amount of the state tax refund claimed. Call 1-877-423-6711 Option #2 for the latest status of your state tax refund. Please allow 6-8 weeks from the date you filed your tax return before making an inquiry about your tax refund.
Georgia State Tax Refund Status Information You can check the status of your refund online at https://gtc.dor.ga.gov/_/#1 The Automated Information Line is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. You will need to have available: The Social Security Number listed on the Individual Income Tax Return and. The exact whole dollar amount of the state tax refund claimed. Call 1-877-423-6711 Option #2 for the latest status of your state tax refund. Please allow 6-8 weeks from the date you filed your tax return before making an inquiry about your tax refund.
Getting Your Georgia Tax Refund. 9. If your state tax witholdings are greater then the amount of income tax you owe the state of Georgia, you will receive an income tax refund check from the government to make up the difference. It should take one to three weeks for your refund check to be processed after your income tax return is recieved. 
You will need to have available: The Social Security Number listed on the Individual Income Tax Return and The exact whole dollar amount of the state tax refund claimed. Call 1-877-423-6711 Option #2 for the latest status of your state tax refund. Please allow 6-8 weeks from the date you filed your tax return before making an inquiry about your tax refund.
To check the status of your refund please visit the Georgia Tax Center. You can also check your refund status using our myGAtax mobile app on your Apple or Android device. Please allow up to 30 business days before making an inquiry. 
Tax Refund Information. NOTE: The information being provided below is for convenience only. Our company does NOT have access to your state tax refund information. Please use the phone number and/or website shown BELOW to contact the state tax department about your refund status. 
If you file a Georgia state income tax return, you can check the refund status online through the Georgia Tax Center's Where's My Refund? site. Required Information. To check your refund status, you need your Social Security number or Taxpayer Identification number, your expected refund amount and the tax year you're inquiring about.
The Online Refund Inquiry System on the Department of Revenue's website allows Georgia taxpayers to locate their refund. The program is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and is updated daily. It only provides information for the current year's tax return. Refunds for paper returns require 10-12 weeks to process. Information for both types of returns is available through the online system. If you filed a paper return and more than 12 weeks have passed, but received an unknown status when trying to locate your refund, you can try to find your return online.
Georgia Department of Revenue. The principal tax collecting and tax law enforcement agency for the state, the Georgia Department of Revenue offers information about taxes for individuals, corporations, and tax professionals. Website:
If you filed your taxes before April 1, you'll wait eight weeks at most before your return will process. If you filed your taxes after April 1, processing may take up to twelve weeks. Generally, electronic filing makes for faster processing than does paper filing. Find out your return status. The principal tax collecting and tax law enforcement agency for the state, the Georgia Department of Revenue offers information about taxes for individuals, corporations, and tax professionals. Website: