Hormonal interaction between the hypothalamus, anterior pituitary gland, and ovaries regulates the female reproductive system. The hypothalamus secretes a small peptide, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), also known as luteinizing hormone–releasing hormone.
The female reproductive cycle is an example of a real biological oscillating system where the periodic nature of the system may be described by a set of difference equations. The model is developed using blood-level of three different ovarian and gonadotropic hormones, estrogen, progesterone, and luteinizing hormone.
In females, this production is the result of low estrogen and progesterone moving through the body. The low level initiates the hypothalamus to discharge GnRH and in essence produce LH and FSH. As the menstrual cycle progresses, the levels of LH and FSH increase slowly until a threshold is reached.
Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone (GnRH). GnRH is a neuropeptide (a decapeptide) that is produced in the hypothalamic surge and tonic centres. In the male and the female, the target tissue is the anterior pituitary gland, specifically Gonadotroph cells. In males and females, secretion of GnRH results in the release of Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) and Leutinising Hormone (LH) from the anterior pituitary gland.
If a 9-year-old boy were castrated, what would happen to the levels of GnRH, FSH, LH, and testosterone in his blood? What effect would these hormonal changes have on sexual characteristics and behavior?
If an adult male were castrated, what would happen to the levels of GnRH, FSH, LH, and testosterone in his blood? What effect would these hormonal changes have on sexual characteristics and behavior?
This system is comprised of blood vessels that connect the hypothalamus and the upper pituitary gland in the brain. The blood flow brings GnRH into the anterior pituitary where endocrine cells synthesize and produce FSH and LH (Luteinizing Hormone) . The gonadotropes are basophilic in appearance and allow GnRH to activate a receptor and a GnRHR.