The mesosphere is where most of the air resistance is. Therefore, if a meteoroid is coming down and is accelerated by gravity downward, the air resistance will usually deplete it splitting it into different pieces therefore not causing major harm to people on earth. They usually land as small rocks. 
The thermosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere above the mesosphere. The thermosphere extends from 50 to 55 miles (80-90 km) above sea level, with the upper limit undefined … . The temperature in the thermosphere initially rises rapidly with heights up to about 120 miles (200 km) and thereafter increases more slowly. The thermosphere is the layer of Earth's atmosphere that still contains substantial molecules of heavier gases. It occurs below the outermost layer, the exosphere, which consi … sts mainly of a near-vacuum of hydrogen and helium.
The mesosphere is the portion of the atmosphere from about 50 to 85 kilometers (31 to 53 miles) above the earth's surface, characterised by temperatures that decrease from 10 … C to −90°C (50°F to −130°F) with increasing altitude. See related link for more information. it is the Middle layer of earth. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Millions of meteors enter the atmosphere, an average of 40 tons per day. Most of them all melt or vaporize within the mesosphere, as a result of collisions with the gas particles contained there. Earth's thicker atmosphere prevents the surface collisions (craters) that can be seen on the planet Mercury, on our Moon, and on most other smaller bodies in the solar system
The stratosphere, mesosphere and lowest part of the thermosphere are collectively referred to as the middle atmosphere, which spans heights from approximately 10 kilometres (33,000 ft) to 100 kilometres (62 mi). In the mesosphere temperature decreases as the altitude increases. The upper boundary of the mesosphere is the mesopause, which can be the coldest naturally occurring place on Earth with temperatures below 130 K (−226 °F; −143 °C).
Credit: Randy Russell, UCAR. The mesosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The mesosphere is directly above the stratosphere and below the thermosphere. It extends from about 50 to 85 km (31 to 53 miles) above our planet. Temperature decreases with height throughout the mesosphere. The coldest temperatures in Earth's atmosphere, about -90° C (-130° F), are found near the top of this layer. The boundary between the mesosphere and the thermosphere above it is called the mesopause.
1 The coldest place on Earth is at the top of the mesosphere. 2  Stratosphere-The stratosphere extends for the next 32 miles after the troposphere. 3  Unlike the troposphere the stratosphere gets its heat by the Ozone Layer absorbing radiation from the sun. 4  As a result, it gets warmer the further away you get from the Earth. 
The mesosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The mesosphere is above the stratosphere layer. The layer above the mesosphere is called the thermosphere. The mesosphere starts at 50 km (31 miles) above Earth's surface and goes up to 85 km (53 miles) high. As you get higher up in the mesosphere, the temperature gets colder. The top of the mesosphere is the coldest part of Earth's atmosphere
FIND OUT MORE. Most life on Earth depends on the atmosphere, a bubble of gases around our planet. This bubble, extending about 430 miles (700 km) into space, protects us from meteorites and warms Earth’s surface. It includes the OZONE LAYER, which shields us from the Sun’s harmful rays. 