You can also send individual contacts directly from an iPhone through the Contacts app, but the iCloud web method insures you will still have access to contacts even if the phone is dead, lost, or just not nearby at the moment. The iCloud web interface contains your entire contact list and all address book data. This contacts list should be up to date so long as iCloud is enabled to sync Contacts, and unlike the rest of iCloud data it does not depend on backups to update or be maintained.
Simple, because this is the only format you can export to. With the vCard file, you can then import it to Google contacts, before exporting it back to a CSV file for Outlook.com. In brief, here are the steps involved: 1  Export iPhone contacts to a vCard file on iCloud. 2  Import the vCard file to Google Contacts. 3  Export Google Contacts to a contacts.csv file. 
Whether you want to move from an iPhone to an Android phone, remove your private information from iCloud; or transfer your iCloud contacts to Outlook, you can download contacts from iCloud without using third party software. The tricky part is that Outlook won’t import multiple vCard contacts. Part 2: Import the vCard file into Windows Contacts. The second part of the process is to import your vCard file into Windows. 1. Open Windows File Explorer. 2. Enter c:\users\%username%\Contacts into the address bar to open the contacts folder. 4. Browse to the location of the vCard file that you exported from iCloud.
10. In the content to sync section, check which iCloud info you want to sync. (Email, Contacts, or Calendar). 11. in the Your Name field, enter your name. 12. If you will be using IMAP to sync with iCloud email, change the Incoming email server to imap.mail.me.com:993, if not skip this step. iCloud contacts and calendars. 2. Select Google. 3. When prompted, enter a valid Gmail address and password. 4. Patiently wait for the initial sync to finish..(It may take up to 5 minutes). 5. Locate the account that you created earlier and tap on it to open the account settings.
Part 1. Export iCloud contacts to vCard. The first part of the process is to export your contacts from iCloud. 1. Sign in icloud.com. 2. Select Gear icon to bring up settings. 3. Select “Select All” or press and hold “Shift” and select the contacts you want to export. 4. Select “Export vCard.”. 5. Part 2: Import the vCard file into Windows Contacts. The second part of the process is to import your vCard file into Windows. 1. Open Windows File Explorer. 2. Enter c:\users\%username%\Contacts into the address bar to open the contacts folder. 4. Browse to the location of the vCard file that you exported
1 Your iCloud mail, contacts, and calendars sync with Microsoft Outlook (if you have Microsoft Outlook installed). 2  An “iCloud Drive” folder, with any files you have stored on iCloud, is added to the “Favorites” section in the left pane of File Explorer. 
Jul 2, 2013 - 2 Comments. As you probably know, all of your iPhone Contacts and related address book information is stored within iCloud, assuming you use the cloud service to sync and backup your data of course. The iCloud web interface contains your entire contact list and all address book data. This contacts list should be up to date so long as iCloud is enabled to sync Contacts, and unlike the rest of iCloud data it does not depend on backups to update or be maintained.
Once you have the file with your contacts saved on your computer, open it and save it as a CSV file. For the last step, login to your Microsoft account on your Windows Phone and under Add people to your contact list, click Import from file. If you use Outlook you have to connect your iPhone to your PC and open iTunes. Then click Info Sync Contacts with. Choose Outlook, and then click Apply
How to transfer iPhone contacts between cloud accounts. Download CopyTrans Contacts from the following page: Copy iPhone contacts to iCloud. Install the program. If you need help installing CopyTrans Contacts, please refer to this article. Run CopyTrans Contacts and connect your iPhone. Your iPhone contacts will appear in the program’s main window. Select the contacts you wish to copy from the contact list. To copy all iPhone contacts to iCloud, tick the checkbox next to “Contacts”. To copy a limited number of contacts, tick the checkbox next to each contact. Now click the “Export selected” button. A new window will appear asking you to select the file format
Run CopyTrans Contacts, connect the iPhone to the PC, and click on the “Import contacts” button. From the popup select “From a file (all contact formats)”. Navigate to the folder on your PC where you saved the CSV file containing the Windows Phone contacts and click “Open”. The contacts are now imported to the iPhone. 