Couscous is one of the staple foods of the Maghrib (western North Africa). Couscous is made from two different sizes of the husked and crushed, but unground, semolina of hard wheat using water to bind them. Semolina is the hard part of the grain of hard wheat (Triticum turgidum var.
Couscous is a coarsely ground semolina pasta that is a dietary staple in North African countries. It is also widely used in Middle Eastern countries and has become popular in American dishes. It is made of semolina, flour, salt, and water.
Couscous is closely related to pasta, as durum wheat, ground into semolina flour, is the same type of wheat that is most commonly used for making pasta. Couscous originated in North Africa, where it is traditionally prepared as part of a meat or vegetable stew seasoned with cumin.
Couscous is a coarsely ground semolina pasta. The grain is a staple in many North African countries. Over the last decade, it's cropped up on American menus and dinner tables. Parboiled couscous is now available in many grocery stores.
It is traditionally served with a meat or vegetable stew spooned over it. Couscous is a staple food throughout the North African cuisines of Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Mauritania and Libya and to a lesser extent in the Middle East and Sicily.
Actually, couscous is a pasta, not a grain. It is made by mixing semolina (coarsely ground durum wheat) and water, and then shaping into the little grains of pasta. The pasta is then coated with flour to prevent them from sticking to each other.
Buford Wilson, Valrico, FL A: Couscous is a pasta made from semolina flour mixed with water. The process of making couscous used to be extremely labor-intensive, requiring hours of drying in the sun, but most couscous today is produced by machines.
Confidence votes 122. Actually, couscous is a pasta, not a grain. It is made by mixing semolina (coarsely ground durum wheat) and water, and then shaping into the little grains of pasta. The pasta is then coated with flour to prevent them from sticking to each other.
Most American cooks know that couscous is a staple in North Africa, but not many understand how versatile it can be. Couscous is a tiny pasta made of wheat or barley; wheat couscous is the most widely available version in North America, and most of it is instant or quick-cooking.