Shoulder Bursitis. The body contains over 150 fluid-filled sacs called bursa. Located throughout the body, bursa act as cushions, decreasing the rubbing between our soft tissue (skin, tendons and ligaments) and bony surfaces. Over time, bursa can become inflamed and painful, a condition known as bursitis. 
Normally a bursa has a small amount of fluid in it. When injured, the bursa becomes inflamed and may become filled with too much fluid. Shoulder bursitis, or subacromial (sub-ak-ROH-mee-ull) bursitis, occurs when a bursa in your shoulder becomes inflamed. Causes: You may have tendinitis (inflamed tendons) and bursitis in your shoulder at the same time. Your bursitis may be part of a problem called shoulder impingement (im-PINJ-ment). This occurs when the rotator cuff (shoulder muscles and tendons) is inflamed and squeezed between the shoulder bones.
Bursae (the plural of bursa) are fluid-filled sacs or cavities positioned in joints throughout the body, including the shoulder. Their purpose is to make shoulder movement easy and to reduce friction in the joint. The definition of shoulder bursitis is an inflamed, swollen bursa. 
Subacromial Bursitis is a general medical term used to describe inflammation of the bursa of the shoulder. When pressure or friction is too great, excess fluid can build up in the bursa sac causing swelling and inflammation. When a bursa becomes inflamed, moving the shoulder becomes very painful and movement can be difficult. Any actions that put pressure on the inflamed bursa can increase irritation and cause further inflammation and pain. Your bursae play an important role in leading a healthy, active life.
The most common symptom of bursitis is pain. The pain may build up gradually or be sudden and severe, especially if calcium deposits are present. Severe loss of motion in the shoulder -- called adhesive capsulitis or frozen shoulder -- can also result from the immobility and pain associated with shoulder bursitis. Overuse or injury to the joint at work or play can also increase a person's risk of bursitis. Examples of high-risk activities include gardening, raking, carpentry, shoveling, painting, scrubbing, tennis, golf, skiing, throwing, and pitching.
Shoulder (Subacromial) Bursitis. A bursa is a sac of synovial fluid, rich in protein and collagen, that acts as a cushion to protect soft tissue, such as tendons, ligaments and muscle, from friction and excess pressure. We have over 150 bursae (plural for bursa) in our bodies with most of them located in our joints. 
A bursa is a fluid-filled sac that acts as a cushion or shock absorber between a tendon and a bone. A tendon is a cord of tough tissue that connects muscles to bones. Normally a bursa has a small amount of fluid in it. When injured, the bursa becomes inflamed and may become filled with too much fluid. Shoulder bursitis, or subacromial (sub-ak-ROH-mee-ull) bursitis, occurs when a bursa in your shoulder becomes inflamed. Causes: You may have tendinitis (inflamed tendons) and bursitis in your shoulder at the same time
Your subacromial bursa is the most commonly inflamed of the shoulder bursa. Subacromial bursitis is a common cause of shoulder pain that is usually related to shoulder impingement of your bursa between your rotator cuff tendons and bone (acromion). Your subdeltoid bursa is less commonly inflamed shoulder bursa. Bursitis around the shoulder can be caused by a repeated minor trauma such as overuse of the shoulder joint and muscles or a single more significant trauma such as a fall. In overuse type injuries, bursitis is often associated with impingement and tendonitis (inflammation) of the rotator cuff tendons.
OrthoInfo Scapular Bursitis Page 2 of 3 A bursa is a thin fluid filled tissue that allows for motionbetween bones and muscles. Forceful and repetitive motionsdone over and over again can cause a bursa become inflamed.Scapulothoracic bursitis refers to an inflammation in thebursas under the shoulder blade. 
(Front view of a right shoulder shown). Bursitis literally means inflammation of the bursa. Bursa's are sacs of fluid that provide lubrication between tendons, muscles and bones. As we discuss in the causes section, bursitis is usually a symptom of other underlying problems. When the bursa becomes inflamed, it becomes swollen with more fluid. 