Identical (or monozygotic) twins happen when a fertilized egg splits into two separate babies-usually within the first twelve days of Mom's pregnancy. After twelve days, the egg may not split entirely and result in conjoined twins.
An 'egg' doesn't split a zygote does, which is an already fertilised developing embryo. If twins occur this way they are identical, it's a freak of nature. Most twins are conceived when 2 sperm fertilise 2 different eggs (fraternal).
When the fertilized egg splits into two, the twins will each have identical nuclear DNA, but not EXACTLY identical mitochondrial DNA. Physical differences in identical twins are contributed, in part, to how much and how similar the mitochondrial DNA each twin inherited from Mom expresses itself.
Identical twins are the result of a single fertilized egg splitting into two separate embryos. The two embryos can share a single placenta and can be in the same or different sac. Since identical twins come from the same fertilized egg, they have the exact same DNA.
1 Identical twins share the same DNA-but do not have identical DNA. 2  When the egg splits into two halves to form identical twins, the DNA may not divide equally between the two cells. 3  The basic concept is similar to when you cut an apple in half, the two halves may not look the same.
With identical twins, one egg (zygote) from the mother is fertilized by one sperm from the father, and then very early in development the embryo splits and two fetuses grow. Spontaneous division of the zygote into two embryos is not considered to be a hereditary trait, but rather a spontaneous or random event.
Identicle twins are formed from a fertilized embryo that splits into two.   Fraternal twins are formed when the woman released to eggs in a cycle and they both get fertiliz … ed.
Now, for identical twins, these happen when a single egg is fertilized by a single sperm and it splits into identical halves-two babies with identical DNA are now formed. Identical twins are always the same sex and blood type. Identical twins are very similar in appearance.
The main cause of fraternal and identical twins comes from conception; either two completely separate eggs can be fertilized (fraternal twins) or one fertilized egg can split into two during maturation (identical twins).
The stage at which the egg cell splits determines how the twins will implant in the uterine lining, and whether or not they share an amnion, chorion, and placenta. Basically, the earlier the splitting occurs, the more independently the twins will develop in the uterus.