All Rights Reserved is also the name of an album by The Evolution Control Committee. The phrase All Rights Reserved appearing on a DVD. The requirement to add the all rights reserved notice became essentially obsolete on August 23, 2000 when Nicaragua became the final member of the Buenos Aires Convention to also become a signatory to the Berne Convention.
Best Answer: Anything you write is protected by copyright as soon as you write it. You don't have to do anything. You can put a copyright notice on the text, but it's not required—your story is protected even if you do nothing. A typical notice might look like this: © 2011 by John Doe. All rights reserved. Even if your book is protected by some copyright, I have experience in Wattpad where someone read my story, voted for it and then copied my story up to the point where the posted chapters had exactly the same plot.
Selecting Copyright Language. When you post your story on Wattpad using Advanced Options, there are multiple copyright options that you can select from. If you want to register it with your country’s copyright office, there are a lot of resources online to help you. You can search for your country’s copyright office through WIPO’s Directory of Intellectual Property Offices at http://www.wipo.int/directory/en/urls.jsp.
The phrase all rights reserved was not specified in the text, but met this requirement. Other international copyright treaties did not require this formality. For example, the Universal Copyright Convention (UCC), adopted in 1952, adopted the © symbol as an indicator of protection. The requirement to add the all rights reserved notice became essentially obsolete on August 23, 2000 when Nicaragua became the final member of the Buenos Aires Convention to also become a signatory to the Berne Convention.
In some ways, you have total control over your story, but since copyright doesn’t give you a complete monopoly, others can still use your story in certain ways, by including short excerpts in reviews and recs, creating fanart or covers for you, etc. If you want to register it with your country’s copyright office, there are a lot of resources online to help you. You can search for your country’s copyright office through WIPO’s Directory of Intellectual Property Offices at http://www.wipo.int/directory/en/urls.jsp.
However, when you post your story on Wattpad, we automatically insert into the file the date of publish on that story for you. This can be found by hovering over the story's status in the description page, and establishes the proof of creation required for any copyright issues that arise. If you want to register it with your country’s copyright office, there are a lot of resources online to help you. You can search for your country’s copyright office through WIPO’s Directory of Intellectual Property Offices at http://www.wipo.int/directory/en/urls.jsp.
Look up all rights reserved in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. . All rights reserved  is a phrase that originated in copyright law as a formal requirement for copyright notice. It indicates that the copyright holder reserves, or holds for their own use, all the rights provided by copyright law. The requirement to add the all rights reserved notice became essentially obsolete on August 23, 2000 when Nicaragua became the final member of the Buenos Aires Convention to also become a signatory to the Berne Convention.
Each of the options only applies to the work that you can copyright; if you include song lyrics, lines from books, films or tv shows, or famous people and historical figures, you’re not claiming copyright ownership to them by selecting any of these options. If you want to register it with your country’s copyright office, there are a lot of resources online to help you. You can search for your country’s copyright office through WIPO’s Directory of Intellectual Property Offices at http://www.wipo.int/directory/en/urls.jsp.