In 1977 Taylor signed with Columbia Records. Between March and April, he quickly recorded his first album for the label. JT, released that June, gave Taylor his best reviews since Sweet Baby James, earning a Grammy nomination for Album of the Year in 1978. In the fall of 2006, Taylor released a repackaged and slightly different version of his Hallmark Christmas album, now entitled James Taylor at Christmas, and distributed by Columbia/Sony.
Synopsis. James Taylor was born in Boston, Massachusetts, on March 12, 1948. He rose to fame in the 1970s, when he became known for writing and performing sensitive, affecting songs. Over the course of a long-running career, Taylor has won five Grammy Awards and seen many of his albums go platinum. Early Life. James Vernon Taylor was born on March 12, 1948, in Boston, Massachusetts. At the age of 3, he moved with his family to North Carolina, where he lived for the rest of his childhood (though his well-off family usually spent summers on Martha's Vineyard, off the coast of Massachusetts).
James Taylor has received honorary doctorates of music from Williams College and the Berklee School of Music. Raised in North Carolina, he lives in western Massachusetts with his wife Caroline and their sons Henry and Rufus. James Taylor’s music embodies the art of songwriting in its most personal and universal forms. He is a master at describing specific, even autobiographical situations in a way that resonates with people everywhere.
A five-time Grammy Award winner, Taylor was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2000. Taylor achieved his breakthrough in 1970 with the No. 3 single  Fire and Rain  and had his first No. 1 hit the following year with  You've Got a Friend , a recording of Carole King 's classic song. His 1976 Greatest Hits album was certified Diamond and has sold 12 million US copies. In the fall of 2006, Taylor released a repackaged and slightly different version of his Hallmark Christmas album, now entitled James Taylor at Christmas, and distributed by Columbia/Sony.
Soundtrack | Actor | Music Department. James Taylor was born on March 12, 1948 in Boston, Massachusetts, USA as James Vernon Taylor. He has been married to Caroline Kim Smedvig since February 18, 2001. They have two children. He was previously married to Kathryn Walker and Carly Simon. See full bio ».
James Taylor is singer-songwriter James Taylor 's debut studio album. Released in 1968, it was the first recording by a non-British artist released by Apple Records, and would also be Taylor's only release on that label. The album was released under the title First Album on the South African market.
As a result, Taylor was signed to Apple and recorded his debut solo album, James Taylor, released in the U.K. in December 1968 and in the U.S. in February 1969. Initially, it received little attention. A more pressing concern, however, was that Taylor had not been able to kick heroin. A year later, The Best of James Taylor became the first compilation to cover material from his years with Apple, Warner Bros., and Columbia. In 2004, he appeared on the television show The West Wing, released Christmas Album, and sang the national anthem before game two of the World Series.
From 'Sweet Baby James' (1970). There's a reason this is Taylor's best-known song and the obvious track to check in at the top spot on our list of the Top 10 James Taylor Songs: After all these years and albums, it remains his very best. 'Something in the Way She Moves'. From 'James Taylor' (1968). Recorded for the Beatles ' boutique Apple label, this track -- given a suitably prosaic late-'60s intro -- would become a concert staple once it was stipped down to its essentials.
AllMusic Review by William Ruhlmann. The heart of James Taylor 's appeal is that you can take him two ways. On the one hand, his music, including that warm voice, is soothing; its minor key melodies and restrained playing draw in the listener. On the other hand, his world view, especially on such songs as Fire and Rain, reflects the pessimism and desperation of the 1960s hangover that was the early '70s. That may not be intentional: Fire and Rain was about the suicide of a fellow inmate of Taylor 's at a mental institution, not the national malaise.