RNA interference (RNAi) is a natural process that cells use to 'turn off' or silence unwanted or harmful genes. The initial discovery of this phenomenon was in 1991, by scientists trying to deepen the colour of petunias. Surprisingly, by introducing a gene for colour, they found that they had turned off the gene. 1 Deliver the dsRNA molecule to the target cell in the target organ. 2  If the level of mRNA and the protein in the cell both decrease by at least 70%, it is likely that a successful gene silencing molecule has been developed. 3  However, delivery to the target cells and organs can be difficult.
Definition of RNA INTERFERENCE. : a posttranscriptional genetic mechanism that suppresses gene expression and in which double-stranded RNA cleaved into small fragments initiates the degradation of a complementary messenger RNA; also: a technique that artificially induces RNA interference. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. Tweet
The term RNA interference (RNAi) was coined to describe a cellular mechanism that use the gene's own DNA sequence of gene to turn it off, a process that researchers call silencing. In a wide variety of organisms, including animals, plants, and fungi, RNAi is triggered by double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). 
Document Actions. RNA interference (RNAi) is a naturally occurring mechanism that leads to the “silencing” of genes. In consequence, the respective protein is no longer synthesised. In nature, this mechanism is used for the regulation of specific genes and is also applied as a defence against viruse
RNA Interference Review. RNA interference (RNAi) is one of the most exciting discoveries of the past decade in functional genomics. RNAi is rapidly becoming an important method for analyzing gene functions in eukaryotes and holds promise for the development of therapeutic gene silencing. 
RNA interference (RNAi). RNA interference (RNAi) is an important pathway that is used in many different organisms to regulate gene expression. This animation introduces the principles of RNAi involving small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs). 
RNAi Overview. RNA interference (RNAi) is a relatively new technology that is revolutionizing the way that researchers study mammalian gene expression. RNAi has had significant impact on the ease, speed, and specificity with which the loss of gene function analysis can be done in mammalian cells and animal models. This is becoming the method of choice for researchers doing loss of function studies. A brief history of RNA interference (RNAi). Figure 1. Evolution of RNAi. RNA Interference (RNAi) is one of the most important technological breakthroughs in modern biology, allowing us to directly observe the effects of the loss of function of specific genes in mammalian systems.
RNAi is an RNA-dependent gene silencing process that is controlled by the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) and is initiated by short double-stranded RNA molecules in a cell's cytoplasm, where they interact with the catalytic RISC component argonaute. RNAi may be used for large-scale screens that systematically shut down each gene in the cell, which can help to identify the components necessary for a particular cellular process or an event such as cell division. The pathway is also used as a practical tool in biotechnology, medicine and insecticides.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a biological process in which RNA molecules inhibit gene expression, typically by causing the destruction of specific mRNA molecules. Historically, it was known by other names, including co-suppression, post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS), and quelling. RNAi may be used for large-scale screens that systematically shut down each gene in the cell, which can help to identify the components necessary for a particular cellular process or an event such as cell division. The pathway is also used as a practical tool in biotechnology, medicine and insecticides.