Crispy Skin. Place the chicken on direct heat to finish cooking through. This makes the skin extra crispy. At about 160 degrees F the chicken is finished. Remove chicken from the grill and let rest 5 to 10 minutes. The internal temperature will rise about 5 degrees while resting. 
Cooking it at Too High a Temperature. If you cook the chicken on too hot a grill, the skin will burn before the flesh cooks. Medium-low is the best temperature on a charcoal grill, and medium on a gas grill. This way, you’ll crisp the skin and avoid flareups. Drying Out Skinless, Boneless Chicken. Dark meat on the bone is more flavorful and will stay juicier on the grill. 
Internal Temperature. Grill chicken until it reaches a safe internal temperature. Cook boneless chicken until it reaches an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit and bone-in chicken until it reaches 180 degrees Fahrenheit. Begin grilling the chicken over direct heat. Grilling chicken at a medium to high heat sears the outside while sealing the juices inside. Grill smaller chicken pieces, which cook in under half an hour, over direct heat. Remove whole chicken and larger chicken pieces from direct heat after the outside browns.
So, what is the correct grilling temperature for chicken? Chicken is resilient and a wide range of temperatures can be used. However, for best results, chicken should be cooked at a medium temperature, usually between 300 and 350 degrees Fahrenheit (148 - 176 degrees Celsius). As with all meats, it is important to cook chicken to a temperature high enough to kill any unsafe bacteria. Regardless of the grilling or barbequing technique you use, the best way to ensure food safety in your poultry is to use a meat thermometer.
By about 30 minutes the chicken should be mostly cooked and ready for sauce. If you are not going to be putting barbecue sauce on your chicken then continue cooking until the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees F. (74 degrees C.) Go to step 9 for more details. You need to reach and internal temperature on 165 degrees F. (74 degrees C.). Check all the pieces of chicken to be certain that they are indeed, cooked. Once you have hit the target temperature remove the chicken from the grill. Cover and allow to rest for about 5 minutes then serve.
2 Lay the chicken pieces skin side down on the hottest side of the grill in order to sear the skin side well. Grill for 5-10 minutes, depending on how hot the grill is (you do not want the chicken to burn). Once you have a good sear on one side, move the chicken pieces to the cooler side of the grill.
Indirect Heat. Grill whole chicken and larger pieces of chicken over indirect heat for two-and-a-half to three hours -- depending on the size of the chicken -- at low to medium heat set between 230 and 250 degrees Fahrenheit. For charcoal grills, indirect heat means grilling chicken over an area not directly over the coals. Begin grilling the chicken over direct heat. Grilling chicken at a medium to high heat sears the outside while sealing the juices inside. Grill smaller chicken pieces, which cook in under half an hour, over direct heat. Remove whole chicken and larger chicken pieces from direct heat after the outside browns.
Place over direct heat. Grill until the chicken turns from a pink color to white along the edge (about 5 minutes). You will see the white moving up the sides. Flip and grill another approximate 4-5 minutes until internal temperature is 165 degrees.
For a charcoal grill, place poultry on grill rack, bone side up, directly over medium coals. Grill, uncovered, for the time given or until the proper temperature is reached and meat is no longer pink, turning once halfway through grilling. For a gas grill, preheat grill. Reduce heat to medium. Place poultry on grill rack, bone side down, over heat.