To maintain health, the diet should consist of 60% alkaline forming foods and 40% acid forming foods. To restore health, the diet should consist of 80% alkaline forming foods and 20% acid forming foods. Generally, alkaline forming foods include: most fruits, green vegetables, peas, beans, lentils, spices, herbs and seasonings, and seeds and nuts. Generally, acid forming foods include: meat, fish, poultry, eggs, grains, and legumes. Shifting Your pH Toward Alkaline... This chart is for those trying to adjust their body pH. The pH scale is from 0 to 14, with numbers below 7 acidic (low on oxygen) and numbers above 7 alkaline. An acidic body is a sickness magnet
1 The color of the text under each food represents the pH rating. 2  This chart is based on the resulting pH ash of foods after digestion. 3  This is the reading you should go by when alkalizing foods for your body. 4  You should aim for a 70/30 ratio between high alkaline vs acid foods. How The List of Alkaline Foods Works. 1 
Foods are classified as acid-forming or alkalizing depending on the effect they have on the body. An acid-forming food contributes hydrogen ions to the body, making it more acidic. An alkalizing food removes hydrogen ions from the body, making it more alkaline. The Basics Every solution is either acidic or alkaline. (Alkaline is often called base.) These solutions can be anything from body fluids, such as stomach acid and blood, to beverages, such as wine or coffee, to sea water. Acidity and alkalinity are measured in pH (potential of hydrogen).
Detailed Alkaline Foods A more in-depth look at the foods that have an alkalising effect on the body. Includes vegetables, nuts, seeds, pulses, grains, fats, oils, fruits and more! Detailed Acid Foods A more in-depth look at the foods that have an acidifying effect on the body. 
As a result, different charts can report slightly different pH levels of the same foods. Download this printable Alkaline-Acid Food Chart to post on your fridge. Jump To Featured Products. How the body reacts to certain foods is what determines what foods are alkaline-forming and what foods are acid-forming. For example lemons are acidic in nature, but have an alkalizing effect on the body once they are digested. Similarly, milk is alkaline outside the body, but acidic upon digestion. Scientists can tell how foods will react inside the body by incinerating the food and analyzing the mineral content of its ash. If the mineral content is highly alkaline, then the food will likely have an alkalizing effect on the body, and vice versa. The type of soil used to grow fruits and vegetables can influence their mineral content and test results can vary.
Those levels vary throughout your body. Your blood is slightly alkaline, with a pH between 7.35 and 7.45. Your stomach is very acidic, with a pH of 3.5 or below, so it can break down food. And your urine changes, depending on what you eat -- that's how your body keeps the level in your blood steady. The alkaline diet claims to help your body maintain its blood pH level. What You Can and Can't Eat. Most fruits and vegetables, soybeans and tofu, and some nuts, seeds, and legumes are alkaline-promoting foods, so they're fair game. Dairy, eggs, meat, most grains, and processed foods, like canned and packaged snacks and convenience foods, fall on the acid side and are not allowed.
To restore health, the diet should consist of 80% alkaline forming foods and 20% acid forming foods. Generally, alkaline forming foods include: most fruits, green vegetables, peas, beans, lentils, spices, herbs and seasonings, and seeds and nuts. Generally, acid forming foods include: meat, fish, poultry, eggs, grains, and legumes. The Basics Every solution is either acidic or alkaline. (Alkaline is often called base.) These solutions can be anything from body fluids, such as stomach acid and blood, to beverages, such as wine or coffee, to sea water. Acidity and alkalinity are measured in pH (potential of hydrogen).
The theory is that some foods, like meat, wheat, refined sugar, and processed foods, cause your body to produce acid, which is bad for you. Eating specific foods that make your body more alkaline, on the other hand, can protect against those conditions as well as shed pounds. What You Can and Can't Eat. Most fruits and vegetables, soybeans and tofu, and some nuts, seeds, and legumes are alkaline-promoting foods, so they're fair game. Dairy, eggs, meat, most grains, and processed foods, like canned and packaged snacks and convenience foods, fall on the acid side and are not allowed.