Eastern hellbenders are found in small, isolated territories from the state of New York south to Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi, and westward to central Missouri and possibly southeastern Kansas. The Ozark hellbender is restricted to small sections of southeastern Missouri and northeastern Arkansas. “What eats me”. Hellbenders and their larvae are vulnerable to large fish, turtles, water snakes, and humans. Adults put up a formidable defense against predation, though, that includes camouflage and slime. Eastern hellbenders are generally described as dark green or gray dorsally and lighter on the underside.
Measuring about two feet in length, the hellbender (also known as a snot otter!) is one of the largest species of salamanders in the world. The hellbender's only close relatives are the giant salamanders of China and Japan. Built for Water. Hellbenders are made for life in the water. They usually don't swim, but they walk on the bottom of the stream bed. Their slippery, flattened body moves easily through water, and their well-developed legs and oar-like tail help them walk against the current with little resistance.
1 Prey: Hellbenders feed primarily on crayfish. 2  They have also been known to eat insects, snails, minnows and worms. 3  Although fishermen have reported seeing hellbenders attracted to their creel at the end of their stringer, there is no evidence that hellbenders eat live trout or impact trout populations where they occur. In Virginia, hellbenders have been observed in streams as small as 5 meters and rivers over 100 meters wide. Because of their preference for clean streams and rivers, hellbenders serve as indicators of stream health. The presence of young and adults is synonymous with good water quality.
Description. The eastern hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis) is a large, stout-bodied, fully-aquatic salamander. Its color is usually brown with darker (or lighter) markings on the back, but can range from gray, to yellowish brown to almost black. The belly is lighter and sparsely spotted if at all. In Virginia, hellbenders have been observed in streams as small as 5 meters and rivers over 100 meters wide. Because of their preference for clean streams and rivers, hellbenders serve as indicators of stream health. The presence of young and adults is synonymous with good water quality.
The hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis), also known as the hellbender salamander, is a species of giant salamander endemic to eastern North America. The name 'hellbender' probably comes from the animal's odd look. Perhaps it was named by settlers who thought it was a creature from hell where it's bent on returning.. Another rendition says the undulating skin of a hellbender reminded observers of horrible tortures of the infernal regions..
Big Mouth. Crayfish is the food of choice for hellbenders, making up 90% of their diet. But hellbenders also feed on fish and other small aquatic (water-dwelling) animals-in fact, just about any living critter they can swallow whole. Hellbenders hunt at night, so they depend on smell and touch to find their prey. Once a hellbender locates its quarry, it opens up its large mouth and-chomp! - grabs the unlucky animal with its strong jaws. Built for Water. Hellbenders are made for life in the water. They usually don't swim, but they walk on the bottom of the stream bed. Their slippery, flattened body moves easily through water, and their well-developed legs and oar-like tail help them walk against the current with little resistance.
With its large, gaping mouth, the hellbender can eat an animal that is almost as big as itself. Predation: Juvenile hellbenders have many predators, including fish, turtles, water snakes and other hellbenders. Adults have few predators, but may be eaten by raccoon, mink and river otter. Typical Lifespan: The hellbender’s lifespan in uncertain. Description: The hellbender is a large, fully-aquatic salamander with a flat head, wrinkled body, and a paddle-shaped tail. Its body is usually dark grey or brown with irregular, dark spots along the back.
1 Predators: Very little is known about the predators of hellbenders. 2  It is suspected that larva and juveniles could be prey to snapping turtles, watersnakes, and large predatory fish. 3  Other than humans, adults probably have few predators. In Virginia, hellbenders have been observed in streams as small as 5 meters and rivers over 100 meters wide. Because of their preference for clean streams and rivers, hellbenders serve as indicators of stream health. The presence of young and adults is synonymous with good water quality.