Nucleic acids are formed when nucleotides come together through phosphodiester linkages between the 5' and 3' carbon atoms. A Nucleic acid sequence is the order of nucleotides within a DNA (GACT) or RNA (GACU) molecule that is determined by a series of letters. Nucleic acid structure refers to the structure of nucleic acids such as DNA and RNA. Chemically speaking, DNA and RNA are very similar. Nucleic acid structure is often divided into four different levels: primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary
1 DNA methylation: DNA methylation consists of the addition of a methyl group to carbon 5 of the cytosine within the dinucleotide CpG. 2  Regions of DNA in the human genome, ranging from 0.5 to 5 kb, that are CG rich are called CpG islands and are usually found in the promoters of genes. 
The sugar in DNA is 2-deoxyribose, which is a pentose (five-carbon) sugar. The sugars are joined together by phosphate groups that form phosphodiester bonds between the third and fifth carbon atoms of adjacent sugar rings. These asymmetric bonds mean a strand of DNA has a direction. In many species, only a small fraction of the total sequence of the genome encodes protein. For example, only about 1.5% of the human genome consists of protein-coding exons, with over 50% of human DNA consisting of non-coding repetitive sequences.
Other combinations of the atoms form the four bases: thymine (T), adenine (A), cytosine (C), and guanine (G). These bases are the rungs of the DNA ladder. (It takes two bases to form a rung -- one for each side of the ladder.). A sugar molecule, a base, and a phosphate molecule group together to make up a nucleotide. Nucleotides are abundant in the cell's nucleus. Nucleotides are the units which, when linked sugar to phosphate, make up one side of a DNA ladder. 
Deoxyribose Sugar. Between the nitrogen-containing base and the phosphate group, which makes up the backbone of the DNA molecule, sits a sugar. It too has a ring form, composed of 5 atoms of carbon. The phosphate group is actually a triphosphate in DNA, which varies depending on which nitrogen-containing base it is binding to. The triphosphates include dATP, dGTP, dCTP, and dTTP, the second letter of the molecule name corresponding to whether it is binding to adenine, guanine, cytosine or thymine.
The polymerization of nucleotides. The nucleic acids, both DNA and RNA, consist of polymers of nucleotides. The nucleotides are linked covalently between the 3' carbon atom of the pentose and the phosphate group attached to the 5' carbon of the adjacent pentose. The figure on the right shows the polymer structure of DNA. Most intact DNA molecules are made up of two strands of polymer, forming a  double helix .
DNA (or deoxyribonucleic acid) is the molecule that carries the genetic information in all cellular forms of life and some viruses. It belongs to a class of molecules called the nucleic acids, which are polynucleotides-that is, long chains of nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of three components: 1  a nitrogenous base: cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A) or thymine (T). 2  a five-carbon sugar molecule (deoxyribose in the case of DNA). Individual codons code for specific amino acids. A gene is a sequence of nucleotides along a DNA strand-with 'start' and 'stop' codons and other regulatory elements-that specifies a sequence of amino acids that are linked together to form a protein.
Like DNA, the backbone of RNA consists of a sugar molecule and a phosphate group; the difference is that in RNA the sugar is ribose, whereas in DNA it's deoxyribose. + 1 other found this useful. Nowell Gnajek. Edit. 