Weaning kittens. For the first few weeks of their lives, kittens feed only on their mother's milk, but by about four weeks of age, they start to eat her food. At this time, you can begin to wean them, gradually. Feed them a cat milk substitute or moist kitten food in a shallow dish. 
1 The socialization period of kittens normally lasts until 8 weeks of age, which is one reason why 8 weeks is the earliest a kitten can leave its mother. 2  The mother queen’s nursing of her kittens should not end abruptly; weaning can be done safely at around 8 to 10 weeks of age. So, from the nursing point of view, 10 weeks of age, or when the kitten has been weaned, is the safest time for a kitten to leave its mother. If the kitten is still nursing at 12 weeks, something is wrong with the breeder’s strategy.
Weaning. It is very important for kittens to remain with mom until weaning is completed. The mother is the sole nutritional source for kittens until they're about 4 weeks of age, although weaning often continues until the cuties are between 8 and 10 weeks, according to the ASPCA. Kittens rely on their mother's milk for proper growth and development. In many cases, kittens begin eating strictly solid foods at around 8 weeks, and then may be ready to leave their mothers for good.
At six weeks old, kittens can leave the mother cat, but generally they will do better socially and health-wise if they are... 1  How to Wean Kittens From Their Mother & at What Age. Age of Weaning. Most kittens are fully weaned when they are 8 to 10 weeks old. For their first three to four weeks, kittens rely solely on their mother's milk for nutrition. Cat food is slowly introduced and increased in their diets until they are fully weaned from milk and eating only cat food
8 Weeks. The organization Cats International recommends keeping kittens with their fellow litter mates and mothers until about 8 weeks in age. In general, it is safe to allow kittens to separate from the mother cat at this specific age, but usually no younger than that. Kittens rely on their mother's milk for proper growth and development. In many cases, kittens begin eating strictly solid foods at around 8 weeks, and then may be ready to leave their mothers for good.
Kittens that leave their mother this young can become very sick and even die. Not to scare anyone but even though kittens can be VERY CUTE at 6 weeks don't take one home that young! You will be much happier to have a healthy silly kitten that's a little older, than a sick, helpless newborn. Answer: 6 weeks is a good age for them to be weaned and start a life independent of their mom. Answer: Taking a kitten away at six weeks is far too early. Many, if not al … l, cat breeders strongly advise that you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 10-12 weeks of age.
Kittens are usually weaned at about 6 to 8 weeks and by three months (12 weeks) the mother will leave them on their own. Many, if not all, good cat breeders strongly advise t … hat you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 12-14 weeks of age. Answer: 6 weeks is a good age for them to be weaned and start a life independent of their mom. Answer: Taking a kitten away at six weeks is far too early. Many, if not al … l, cat breeders strongly advise that you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 10-12 weeks of age.
8 weeks is the minimum. Most good breeders won't let kittens go unless they are 12 weeks because they still have a lot of things to learn from their mother. They learn how to behave and use the litter box at that time. Don't let them go until AT LEAST 8 weeks. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. If you start with a healthy kitten, you're more likely to avoid health problems later on. While there's no substitute for a good veterinary exam, here are a few things to help you assess the health of a kitten: Age-Kittens are ready to leave their mothers at around 10-12 weeks of age.