But it will cost you. Most airlines will charge a fee for changing the name details on flights. However, some airlines don't allow you to transfer name details. If your airline provider agrees to change the details then you will have to let them know in advance, before checking in. Bob Atkinson, travel expert from travelsupermarket.com, said: 'Some airlines make it very easy to change the name on a ticket, with the likes of Thomas Cook charging as little as £20 per person per flight on their charters.'.
Tap for detailed view of flight. 3. Find the flight that you wish to change and select the Change Flight option Tap to change flight. 4. Select new flight requirements; flying from, flying to and new departure date, and select search 5. Search and select your flight. The difference in fare price is displayed on the page. Please note that there is an additional charge for a flight change (unless flexi change or a change due to a problem with a flight) Tap on each box and enter flying from, to and departure date. Tap search to view available flights. Changes of flight can be if you simply need to change your flight, that you have a flexi fare change, or that you have been notified that your flight needs to be reviewed due to a problem with your flight. If there is more than one passenger on the flight, all passengers will be transferred
easyJet baggage allowance. Hand Luggage: The easyJet baggage allowance includes one piece of cabin luggage per passenger (this can be a bag, laptop case, handbag, brief case, bum-bag, rucksack, carrier bag, wedding dress carrier or motorcycle helmet). 
Flights for the family, travelling at the weekend with luggage, cost 836 all-in. But booking flexi-flights two weeks earlier cost just 405. After a nervous 24-hour wait we switched them to the weekend we wanted. When we went on the Easyjet website the flights were over 1,500 including bags. We then booked the flexi flights, which were 848 - a saving of 700. A bit nerve-wracking for the 24 hours, but we know it works. Please note, some of our forumites have reported a hike in Easyjet's flexifare tickets so this may not work.
A. Thankfully, easyJet makes it straightforward to change one flight on a multiple booking without affecting the others. At easyJet.com use the manage booking option. You should be presented with a full set of the family's flights. You will pay a fee of €42 (about £35) for the change, plus any increase in fare between the existing flight and the new one. Suppose you booked the old flight good and early, paying say €100, and the new one is now €200: you will pay a total of €142 (about £115).
RE: Changing Name on EasyJet Flight? One person is unable to make it within our group, To fill his space I believe we can &#39;change name on ticket&#39; does still: Apply if we have already processed on-line check-in (with all passport details)? How much would it cost? And is the admin fee per journey? This can be done by going to manage booking on their website. http://www.easyjet.com/EN/Book/regulatio... Whether the change is possible once you have checked in online I would think not, but you might be better checking with EasyJet before attempting the change. The customer service number is - 0871 244 2377.
You will be presented with the familiar booking display, and can choose an earlier flight on the same route (or, for that matter, any other flight on the easyJet network). You will pay a fee of €42 (about £35) for the change, plus any increase in fare between the existing flight and the new one. Suppose you booked the old flight good and early, paying say €100, and the new one is now €200: you will pay a total of €142 (about £115).
For example, Ryanair charges £100 to change a name and many of their flights are cheaper than this. Cancellations. Most cheap flights are non refundable and if you're flying with a low cost airline then no flights are refundable, unless it's an extreme case. Mistakes happen and plans change, so we've worked with travelsupermarket.com to compare the costs imposed by UK and Eire's airlines to make any changes to your bookings. The cost of changing a flight or flight date can vary from £15 per person plus fare up to £40 per person. The price for changing the name on a ticket varies from £25 per person with up to £120 and some airlines don't allow you do it at all. If you need to cancel your flight and want a refund then the charge for this vary from £15 to £40 and some airlines don't offer any refunds at all