The pelvic floor is a group of muscles that form a kind of hammock across your pelvic opening. Normally, these muscles and the tissues surrounding them keep the pelvic organs in place. These organs include your bladder, uterus, vagina, small bowel, and rectum. Sometimes, these muscles and tissue develop problems. 
For people with stress incontinence, pelvic floor exercises can reduce or stop leakage. Pelvic floor exercises can also help to reduce urge and frequency in overactive bladders. Weakening of the pelvic floor muscles occurs because of pregnancy and childbirth, menopause, constipation and straining, chronic cough. You can strengthen the muscles supporting the bladder and urethra by performing pelvic floor muscle exercises. Toning these pelvic floor muscles can help support the bladder and reduce urgency and frequency episodes.
[Overactive pelvic floor syndrome]. [Article in Norwegian]. Rognlid M, Lindsetmo RO. BACKGROUND: The etiology of the overactive pelvic floor syndrome is not fully understood and no gold standards are available for diagnosis or treatment. The article presents an overview of literature, and discusses diagnostics and treatment. 
Determining if the pelvic floor muscles are overactive or underactive is crucial in their treatment. Exercising an overactive pelvic floor can lead to serious pain and nerve irritation. Exercising an underactive pelvic floor can lead to vast improvements in core strength and lower back, sacroiliac, and hip joint function. It is truly a double-edged sword. If the psoas now tests strong you know it is being inhibited by the pelvic floor muscles. This process can be applied to all associated muscles. If you are familiar with manual release of the pelvic floor it would be appropriate to do that. If you’re not there is a simple way to release
Spasm of the pelvic floor muscles, also known as Levator Ani Syndrome, can cause increased tension of the pelvic floor and contribute to pain in the low back, pelvis, and hip area. Patients with Levator Ani Syndrome often have the sensation of a mass in the rectum or pressure in the anal canal. Tightness of the pelvic floor muscles can also contribute to constipation, as the person may not relax the area enough to have a productive bowel movement and will strain to pass stool as a result. Chronic straining can lead to other dysfunctions. 1  Mathias SD, Kupperman M, Liberman RF, et al.
Weakness of the pelvic floor muscles is associated with lower back pain, incontinence, constipation, and sexual dysfunction. The use of Kegel exercises to correct this is commonplace and widely utilized by physical therapists and Pilates instructors. If the psoas now tests strong you know it is being inhibited by the pelvic floor muscles. This process can be applied to all associated muscles. If you are familiar with manual release of the pelvic floor it would be appropriate to do that. If you’re not there is a simple way to release
Problems occur when these muscles are overactive and are inhibiting associated core and lower back muscles. Asking overactive pelvic floor muscles to perform Kegel exercises can lead to pelvic floor pain and irritation of the pudendal nerve. A simple way to determine this is to use manual muscle testing. For example, if the pelvic floor muscles are weak, other associated muscles will have to compensate and thus become tight and painful.
Weakness of the pelvic floor muscles is associated with lower back pain, incontinence, constipation, and sexual dysfunction. The use of Kegel exercises to correct this is commonplace and widely utilized by physical therapists and Pilates instructors. A simple way to determine this is to use manual muscle testing. For example, if the pelvic floor muscles are weak, other associated muscles will have to compensate and thus become tight and painful.
Other conditions Polyuria Overactive pelvic floor Symptoms and signs Pain symptoms are often vague and poorly localized. Pain is typically exacerbated by pelvic floor muscle activities like sexual intercourse or voiding. The pressure arising from pelvic floor overactivity may be perceived as a need to void. 
Kegel exercises strengthen the pelvic floor muscles. These exercises can help control stress urinary continence, urge urinary incontinence, overactive bladder, fecal incontinence and can help slow the progression of vaginal prolapsed. Kegel exercises must be done correctly and regularly to work. The most common symptom of overactive bladder is urinary urgency, which is a sudden, intense desire to urinate. Urgency may occur with (wet overactive bladder) or without (dry overactive bladder) leakage of urine.