Especially when Shani Sade Sati coincided with the Shani mahadasha!! Shani’s position, its raashi, its nakshatra, its navamansh raashi and position/sthan in the birth-chat, its relation with other planets (aspects/drishti) is very important to analyze the effect of Shani mahadasha / antardasha on your life. 1 He has Shani 11th house (the best place) to lagna and 3rd house to Moon (Kanya rashi) in aggressive Scorpio sign in uchcha navamansh. 2  Shani is VERY strong as it is 3rd to moon and 11th to Lagna and Surya of Makar (Capricorn). 3  Music director O.P Nayyar had a great success from 1954 to 1973 (19 years)
There have been various questions on Shani Sade Sati about Shani mahadasha and antardasha. Most of the people think that it is a troublesome period in life. Well, it is not correct. Rather, many great people become “great” in the real sense in Shani mahadasha. 1 He has Shani 11th house (the best place) to lagna and 3rd house to Moon (Kanya rashi) in aggressive Scorpio sign in uchcha navamansh. 2  Shani is VERY strong as it is 3rd to moon and 11th to Lagna and Surya of Makar (Capricorn). 3  Music director O.P Nayyar had a great success from 1954 to 1973 (19 years)
Shani is a Deva and son of Surya and his wife Chhaya, hence also known as Chayyaputra. He is the elder brother of Yama, the Hindu god of death, who in some scriptures corresponds to the deliverance of justice. Surya's two sons Shani dev and Yama judge. Shani is also known as the lord of masses and his blessings are thus considered very important in an individual's horoscope for bestowing him with mass following and popularity. He is depicted dark in colour, clothed in black; holding a sword, arrows and two daggers and mounted on a crow, which is Shani's vāhana.
Shani dev is embodied in the planet Saturn and is the Lord of Saturday. Shani dev is also known as Śanaiścara (शनैश्चर). The word shani also denotes the seventh day or Saturday in most Indian languages. The word shani (शनि) comes from Śanayē Kramati Saḥ (शनये क्रमति सः), the one who moves slowly, because Saturn takes about 30 years to revolve around the Sun. Shani is also known as the lord of masses and his blessings are thus considered very important in an individual's horoscope for bestowing him with mass following and popularity. He is depicted dark in colour, clothed in black; holding a sword, arrows and two daggers and mounted on a crow, which is Shani's vāhana.
In The Witcher, Geralt meets Shani in the Outskirts of Vizima, trying to get into the city and St. Lebioda's Hospital to help treat the Catriona-victims. She is surprised to see him, because, as she tells him, I heard you died . Shani is a beautiful red-haired medic, and a student at the Academy of Oxenfurt. While still a student, she, Dandelion and Philippa Eilhart helped Geralt chase down Rience. She participated in the Battle of Brenna as part of the staff of Milo Rusty Vanderbeck 's field hospital.
Shani is a very prominent first name for females (#2002 out of 4276, Top 47%) and a slightly less prominent last name for all people (#111740 out of 150436, Top 74%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Shani for girls. Shani /sha-ni/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Shani) is pronounced SHAH-nee. It is of Hebrew and Swahili origin, and the meaning of Shani is crimson; a marvel, wondrous. Refers to the metaphorical Scarlet thread or theme of a story. Kreatif forms: Shanni, Shini, Shuni
Saturn is the sixth planet from the Sun and the second-largest in the Solar System, after Jupiter. It is a gas giant with an average radius about nine times that of Earth. Although only one-eighth the average density of Earth, with its larger volume Saturn is just over 95 times more massive. 
1 Salman has a very strong Shani in Kumbh rashi (10th house: Career!) with Moon and is running Shani Mahadasha from 2002. 2  Shah Rukh also has a well placed Shani in the 4th house (Sukh-sthan) in Kumbh rashi & running Shani Mahadasha from 2006. 1 He has Shani 11th house (the best place) to lagna and 3rd house to Moon (Kanya rashi) in aggressive Scorpio sign in uchcha navamansh. 2  Shani is VERY strong as it is 3rd to moon and 11th to Lagna and Surya of Makar (Capricorn). 3  Music director O.P Nayyar had a great success from 1954 to 1973 (19 years)