Bengal tigers live in tropical rainforests in India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Myanmar and Nepal. However, most of the population is found in grassland or deciduous forests. Bengal tigers like the constant shade that the forest floor guarantees with the understory’s leaves leaving the tigers cool. 
The white tiger is not a breed of its own, but actually a type of Bengal tiger. While they are sometimes bred with Siberian tigers as a way of manipulating genetics to produce white tigers in captivity, this breed is extremely rare in the wild. Because of this, and the fact that Bengal tigers of any kind are an endangered species, the number of white tigers currently living in the wild -- and their exact whereabouts -- is unknown but assumed to be miniscule.
The Bengal tiger is considered to be the second largest species of tiger, although recent reports suggest that the Bengal tiger is on average, larger than the Siberian tiger. The Bengal tiger has a yellow or light orange coat, with black or dark brown stripes and a white belly. The white tiger is a Bengal tiger that has mutated genes, meaning that it is white in colour with black stripes.
Bangladesh | Where Do Bengal Tigers Live. The Bengal tiger is the national animal of Bangladesh and are found in the mangrove forests of Sundarban. As of survey 2004, there were around 200 to 419 Bengal tigers remaining in the wild of Sundarbans. White tigers are a color mutant of Bengal tigers, but they are seldom found in the wild. They have a wide range of habitats—from the coniferous cold Himalayan mountains to the humid and warm mangroves of the Sunderbans together with the dry hills of the Indian peninsula.
Dry and wet deciduous forests, grassland and temperate forests, mangrove forests. The Bengal tiger is found primarily in India with smaller populations in Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, China and Myanmar. It is the most numerous of all tiger subspecies with more than 2,500 left in the wild
Here you will find out some of the rarely known facts about Bengal tigers habitat and where do Bengal tigers live. Bengal tigers are known to survive in much reduced and fragmented range a century ago. These tigers survive in Bhutan, India, China, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Nepal. White tigers are a color mutant of Bengal tigers, but they are seldom found in the wild. They have a wide range of habitats—from the coniferous cold Himalayan mountains to the humid and warm mangroves of the Sunderbans together with the dry hills of the Indian peninsula.
Browser out-of-date! The Bengal tiger is the most numerous species of tiger in Asia and is found in dense forests and mangrove swamps and jungles throughout India, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal, although the Bengal tiger's range today is much smaller than it once was. The Bengal tiger has a yellow or light orange coat, with black or dark brown stripes and a white belly. The white tiger is a Bengal tiger that has mutated genes, meaning that it is white in colour with black stripes.
Around 49 to 57 Bengal tigers live in the Eastern Ghats with a range of 7,772 sq. km (3,001 sq. miles). These are found in the isolated pockets of the forests in Nagarjunasagar Tiger Reserve and Gundla Braheshwara National Park. White tigers are a color mutant of Bengal tigers, but they are seldom found in the wild. They have a wide range of habitats—from the coniferous cold Himalayan mountains to the humid and warm mangroves of the Sunderbans together with the dry hills of the Indian peninsula.
The Bengal tiger (also known as the Royal Bengal tiger) is a subspecies of tiger, found across the Indian subcontinent. The Bengal tiger is the national animal of Bangladesh and is considered to be the second largest tiger in the world. The Bengal tiger has a yellow or light orange coat, with black or dark brown stripes and a white belly. The white tiger is a Bengal tiger that has mutated genes, meaning that it is white in colour with black stripes.