These are relatively strong numbers with the average, non-educated salary, earning $45,000 USD per year and $78,000 USD average salary for those with tertiary qualifications. In fact, Kuwait was reported to have the largest increase in expat salaries according to Gulf Business, with salaries rising 10.19 per cent. 
Kuwait Jobs – Salary and Benefits. Teaching jobs in Kuwait offer a salary typically ranging from 500 – 800 KWD/month (approximately $1,800 to $3,700), tax-free. The previously mentioned leadership positions will offer a higher salary based on qualifications and experience. The listed teaching opportunities in Kuwait offer a number of benefits: 
The net average income in constant 2005 US$ is computed using the Interbank nominal exchange rate [a] and the U.S. inflation rate [d]. The net average income in constant 2005 US$ at PPP is computed using the IMF PPP exchange rate [d] and the U.S. inflation rate [d]. There are no income tax or social security deductions on the salary income in Kuwait. The weekly hours are based on data supplied by the Kuwait Ministry of Planning to the International Labour Organization [9].
Average Civilian Contractor Kuwait Salaries. The average salary for civilian contractor kuwait jobs is $57,000. Average civilian contractor kuwait salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term civilian contractor kuwait anywhere in the job listing
Therefore, if seeking to work in Kuwait, it is better not to check for average pay scale, as there could be no definite answer. Salaries in Kuwait are not based on any pre-existing standard or average. Also, not all companies offer bonuses, although it is a requirement. Further, the employees working under contract are sometimes offered an indemnity, in addition to their salary, at the end of contract period. 
SUMMARY. Kuwait. Average wages in Kuwait are around $29.00 per hour for less skiled jobs. For skilled and experienced Engineers, Managers and Doctors, the average salary is rised up tremendously, to $140,000 or more pery year, excluding benefits. Kuwait is a tax free country. Petroleum in Kuwait accounts nearly half of GDP, and 90% of export revenues.
The latter reflects the purchasing power in the United States in 2005. The gross monthly average income is based on data supplied by the Kuwait Ministry of Planning to the International Labour Organization [9]. The average income includes the salaries and wages of paid employees. There are no income tax or social security deductions on the salary income in Kuwait. The weekly hours are