Geology is the study of the Earth, the materials of which it is made, the structure of those materials, and the processes acting upon them. It includes the study of organisms that have inhabited our planet. An important part of geology is the study of how Earth’s materials, structures, processes and organisms have changed over time.
Geology can also refer generally to the study of the solid features of any celestial body (such as the geology of the Moon or Mars). Geology gives insight into the history of the Earth by providing the primary evidence for plate tectonics, the evolutionary history of life, and past climates. Geology is important for mineral and hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, evaluating water resources, understanding of natural hazards, the remediation of environmental problems, and for providing insights into past climate change.
1 The study of geology is the study of the solid earth. 2  This means the rocks it's made of and the processes by which they change. 3  Geology as a career consists of fieldwork a lo…. 4  Geology Journals for Your Studies If you are pursuing an education in the field, a comprehensive geology journal can be an invaluable resource. Geology is the study of Earth. Geology is called geology because geo means Earth, and logy means discourse. Nevertheless, geology is reasonably defined to be a science that pu … rsues an understanding of the Earth. There are two broad areas of geology which include physical and historical
Geology is the science comprising the study of solid Earth, the rocks of which it is composed, and the processes by which they change. Geology can also refer generally to the study of the solid features of any celestial body. Geology gives insight into the history of the Earth, as it provides the primary evidence for plate tectonics, the evolutionary history of life, and past climates. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: geology (Noun). The science that studies the structure of the earth (or other planets), together with its origin and development, especially by examination of its rocks. Origin: From Modern geologia, from γῆ + -logia.
More information. In more scientific terms, geology is the study of the Earth's origin, structure, composition and history, (including the development of life) and the nature of the processes which have given rise to the Earth as we know it today. In geology, rock is a naturally occurring mixture of minerals. 
Definition of GEOLOGY for Kids. 1. : a science that deals with the history of the earth and its life especially as recorded in rocks. 2. : the geologic features (as mountains or plains) of an area. Full Definition of GEOLOGY. 1. a: a science that deals with the history of the earth and its life especially as recorded in rocks b: a study of the solid matter of a celestial body (as the moon). 2. : geologic features. 3. : a treatise on geology. — ge·ol·o·gist \-jist\ noun.
Classified under: Nouns denoting people. Hypernyms (geologist is a kind of...): man of science; scientist (a person with advanced knowledge of one or more sciences). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of geologist): geophysicist (a geologist who uses physical principles to study the properties of the earth). 
Geo means earth, and ology is the study of. Geology, therefore, refers to the study of the earth, and geological pertains to that, such as the time periods or features of the earth. Ma in geology means Mega Anum. The M is a standard SI prefix (think giga, mega, kilo, etc.), and anum means year. However, in geology the a specifically denotes time before … the present. For example, 10 Ma means ten millions years before the present, or ten million years ago.