Foods that are rich in sulphur content are also important to collagen production. Among these are green and black olives, fresh cucumbers, and fresh stalks of celery. Working in conjunction with the sulphur, vegetables that are rich in Vitamin A also aid in keeping collagen levels high. Red fruits and vegetables also are excellent sources to up the collagen content of foods in the diet. The presence of lycopenes l in these types of foods helps to act as. antioxidants, which in turn increases collagen production. Try adding red peppers, beets, and fresh or stewed tomatoes to the diet.
Beautiful skin diet should include foods that are rich in omega 3 fatty acids which increase collagen production and reduce the risk of skin cancer. Avocado oil is ideal for dry and damaged skin because it helps to regenerate and rejuvenate damaged skin cells. You can try consuming the collagen-rich foods mentioned in this article. You can also consume these vitamin C rich foods yellow and red bell peppers, leafy geen vegetables, guavas, broccoli and berries.
Carrots. Carrots are rich in Vitamin A which helps increase collagen production and slows the breakdown of collagen and elastin that causes skin aging. Vitamin A thickens and stimulates the dermis where collagen, elastin and blood vessels are present and it also helps improve blood flow to the surface of the skin. You can try consuming the collagen-rich foods mentioned in this article. You can also consume these vitamin C rich foods yellow and red bell peppers, leafy geen vegetables, guavas, broccoli and berries.
For a snack that promotes healthy production of collagen, try making an avocado dip. Avocados contain the same omega fatty acids as fish, and digest just as easily. Foods that are rich in sulfur content are also important to collagen production. Among these are green and black olives, fresh cucumbers, and fresh stalks of celery. Working in conjunction with the sulfur, vegetables that are rich in Vitamin A also aid in keeping collagen levels high. Try adding raw carrots, fresh cantaloupe and baked sweet potatoes to the diet for an extra boost. 
Foods rich in Vitamin C. Vitamin C is an important vitamin in collagen production to maintain strong and healthy skin, and can be found in oranges, grapefruits, lemons, strawberries, tomatoes, peppers, broccoli, among others. Foods rich in proline and lysine.
Fruits rich in the bioflavonoid anthocyandins, according to WHFoods, have been shown to link collagen fibers and support the connective tissue matrix. Anthocyanidins are present in deep red and purple food sources such as cherries, blueberries, blackberries and raspberries. According to The World's Healthiest Foods, collagen fibers are comprised largely of hydroxylysine and hydroxyproline. Although there is insufficient evidence to draw a clear connection between foods rich in lysine or proline and collagen synthesis, foods high in these amino acids may support collagen formation.
Black or green olives are rich in sulphur which promotes collagen formation. Sulphur was used in ancient times to treat skin problems like dermatitis. It helps reduce skin oiliness, acne and prevents pore blockage from forming. Acne is a skin condition that causes pimples, blackheads and red, inflamed patches of skin. You can try consuming the collagen-rich foods mentioned in this article. You can also consume these vitamin C rich foods yellow and red bell peppers, leafy geen vegetables, guavas, broccoli and berries.
Food rich in copper. Copper helps in the formation of collagen in the body, which is great if you increase the consumption of foods rich in copper, as liver, clams, oysters, green leafy vegetables, nuts and vegetables. Vitamin C is an important vitamin in collagen production to maintain strong and healthy skin, and can be found in oranges, grapefruits, lemons, strawberries, tomatoes, peppers, broccoli, among others. Foods rich in proline and lysine.
Vitamin C. Vitamin C is a key nutrient in collagen and elastin production and can be a limiting factor if you don't obtain sufficient quantities in your diet. Many plant foods offer significant amounts of vitamin C. Guavas pack the biggest vitamin C punch of all, with 165 milligrams in one medium-sized fruit