For other uses, see Springbok (disambiguation) . The springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis) is a medium-sized brown and white antelope-gazelle of southwestern Africa. It is extremely fast and can reach speeds of 88 km/h (55 mph) and can leap 4 m (13 feet) through the air. The common name springbok comes from the Afrikaans and Dutch words spring = jump and bok = male antelope or goat. Springbok footprints are narrow and sharp, and are 5.5 cm (2.2 in) long. springbok are distinguished from gazelles in that they only have two premolar teeth in each side of each jaw, instead of three, and therefore a total of twenty eight teeth, rather than thirty.
Since newborn springbok are unable to run fast, they are easy targets for the predators such as eagles and Jackals, which is why, the mother springbok hides the newborn in bushes or long grasses for the first few days. Known for its speed and jumping powers, Springbok’s legs are long with powerful muscles that provide them to run at speed 80 to 90km/h, which outruns many of its predators and leap as far as 3.5m and long jump as far as 15m.
Fast food affects how fast you can run because it clogs your arteries with trans fat and slows down your metabolism which helps digest food. Fast food is usually unhealthy and … junk food puts unwanted fat and sugar into your body that makes you fat and therefor makes you slower and running. How fast can a mustang horse run? 60 kph Answer 2: Along with the answer above a mustang will be able to gallop at speeds of between 18 to 37 mph (37 mph is roughly 60Kph).
5. Sarah, a cheetah residing at the Cincinnati zoo is undoubtedly the fastest of all land mammals. On June 20, 2012 she ran 100m in 5.95 seconds with a top speed of 61 mph. That’s nearly 4 seconds faster than Bolt’s 100m world record and more than double his top speed. mendobrew.com. Cheetah
When the male springbok is showing off his strength to attract a mate, or to ward off predators, he starts off in a stiff-legged trot, jumping up into the air with an arched back every few paces and lifting the flap along his back. Springbok footprints are narrow and sharp, and are 5.5 cm (2.2 in) long. springbok are distinguished from gazelles in that they only have two premolar teeth in each side of each jaw, instead of three, and therefore a total of twenty eight teeth, rather than thirty.
The young springbok can start eating grasses at 2 weeks old, then can travel with the whole herd at 4 weeks old, and after 2 more months, they stop depending on it's mother. Then, springbok reaches to maturity at around 400 days old, which is around 1 and a half years old, which then can start reproduce new springboks. Known for its speed and jumping powers, Springbok’s legs are long with powerful muscles that provide them to run at speed 80 to 90km/h, which outruns many of its predators and leap as far as 3.5m and long jump as far as 15m.
The fastest thoroughbred racehorse has reached top speeds of 55mph, almost double that of Usain Bolt’s 100m world record top speed. However, thoroughbred’s aren’t just fast, they’re also known for their stamina and can maintain a pace of 16 mph for 60 miles. Talk about the ultimate ultra marathoner. Cheetah. Sarah, a cheetah residing at the Cincinnati zoo is undoubtedly the fastest of all land mammals. On June 20, 2012 she ran 100m in 5.95 seconds with a top speed of 61 mph. That’s nearly 4 seconds faster than Bolt’s 100m world record and more than double his
The pronghorn is the second fastest land mammal in the world, after the cheetah. It can attain speeds of over 53 miles (86 kilometers) per hour. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Fleet-footed pronghorns are among the speediest animals in North America. They can run at more than 53 miles (86 kilometers) an hour, leaving pursuing coyotes and bobcats in the dust. 
When fleeing from a predator, springbok do not pronk, but rather run at speeds of up to 80 km/h (50 mph). Another theory is that pronking enhances vigilance and gives the members of a herd a clear view of the surrounding countryside and its dangers. A very good size of trophy horns are ± 38cm (15 inches).Springbok males are also bigger in body with thicker necks than the females. These animals can fight fiercely with their horns-more so than most other antelope species. They often clash and lock their horns and wrestle ferocious to pull their opponents off balance.
110 kph but only for a few seconds at a time about 100 mph and can run 20 feet per second That's not right cheetahs run up to 126 mph Answer A cheetah can run at speeds … of upto 75mph, for short periods of time. OK look. All you have to do is use common sense, is they could run 100 mph but only cover 20 feet then there's know way that's possible. If you broke it down that would be only 35mph. And to answer your question they have a maximum speed of 75mph and can cover roughly 40-45 feet per second.