Geography. Finland is three times the size of Ohio. It is heavily forested and contains thousands of lakes, numerous rivers, and extensive areas of marshland. Except for a small highland region in the extreme northwest, the country is a lowland less than 600 ft (180 m) above sea level.
One of the most remarkable features of Finland is light. When the endless sunshine of summer gives way to dark winter, the Northern Lights appear like magic and lighten up the sky. The further north you go, the greater the chances of spotting the Aurora Borealis – in Finnish Lapland they can appear on 200 nights a year. As many of these lakes are very large in size, a great part of Finland is covered in water – making Finland distinguishably different from other European countries. From the metropolitan area around Helsinki all the way up to the great Lake Inari in Lapland, Finland is filled with oases of the clean blue.
Finland. Finland has a much milder climate than most other regions of the world that lie as far north. Finland's climate is influenced chiefly by the Gulf Stream, a warm ocean current that flows off Norway's west coast. Finland's many lakes and the gulfs of Bothnia and Finland help give the country a relatively mild climate. July temperatures in Finland average 13 to 17°C. February is usually Finland's coldest month, with temperatures averaging from - 22 to -3°C
In 2013, Finland's population was around 5.5 million, with the majority living in its southern regions. In terms of area, it is the eighth largest country in Europe and the most sparsely populated country in the European Union. The name Suomi (Finnish for Finland) has uncertain origins, but a candidate for a source is the Proto-Baltic word *źemē, meaning land. In addition to the close relatives of Finnish (the Finnic languages), this name is also used in the Baltic languages Latvian and Lithuanian.
; Swedish: Finland [ˈfɪnland]), officially the Republic of Finland, is a Nordic country in Northern Europe bordered by Sweden to the west, Norway to the north, and Russia to the east; Estonia lies to the south across the Gulf of Finland. The name Suomi (Finnish for Finland) has uncertain origins, but a candidate for a source is the Proto-Baltic word *źemē, meaning land. In addition to the close relatives of Finnish (the Finnic languages), this name is also used in the Baltic languages Latvian and Lithuanian.
UTC +2. Finland (Finnish: Suomi, Swedish: Finland) is in Northern Europe and has borders with Russia to the east, Norway to the north, and Sweden to the west. Finland is a thoroughly modern welfare state with well-planned and comfortable small towns and cities, but still offers vast areas of unspoiled nature
Finland is a parliamentary republic with a central government based in the capital Helsinki, local governments in 317 municipalities, and an autonomous region, the Åland åland. Islands over.1 4 million people live in The Greater helsinki metropolitan, area which produces a third of the'country S. gdp The name Suomi (Finnish for Finland) has uncertain origins, but a candidate for a source is the Proto-Baltic word *źemē, meaning land. In addition to the close relatives of Finnish (the Finnic languages), this name is also used in the Baltic languages Latvian and Lithuanian.
Finland is a tiny country in the northernmost corner of Europe-in fact, along with Iceland it is the only country located almost completely north of the 60th latitude. It’s five and half million inhabitants could easily fit into one of the suburbs of New York or Shanghai. Finland has the most heavy metal bands per capita in the world. The dark winter surely plays a major role in this attachment to suicidal lyrics, double bass drum, and the color black: the Nordic countries are the clear winners of this genre. But even in this crowd, Finland stands apart.