Carbamide peroxide (also known as urea peroxide) is the most popular over-the-counter and professional bleaching agent used for teeth whitening. The main and active ingredient in carbamide peroxide is hydrogen peroxide. 
Akin to water of crystallization, hydrogen peroxide cocrystallizes with urea with the stoichiometry of 1:1. The compound is simply produced (on a scale of several hundred tonnes a year) by the dissolution of urea in excess concentrated hydrogen peroxide solution, followed by crystallization. Hydrogen peroxide-urea is mainly used as a disinfecting and bleaching agent in cosmetics and pharmaceuticals. As a drug, this compound is used in some preparations for the whitening of teeth.
Often called carbamide peroxide in the dental applications, it is used as a source of hydrogen peroxide for bleaching, disinfection, and oxidation. Hydrogen peroxide-urea is mainly used as a disinfecting and bleaching agent in cosmetics and pharmaceuticals. As a drug, this compound is used in some preparations for the whitening of teeth.
4.) H₂O₂ ↔ H⁺ + HOO⁻. Carbamide peroxide has two portions, the Carbamide portion and the Hydrogen portion. In equation 1, we see the Carbamide Peroxide molecule on the left side of the arrows, which is made up of the carbamide portion (H₂NCONH₂) bonded (•) to the hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) portion of the molecule.
How Carbamide Peroxide Bleaches Teeth. In your mouth, the chemical reacts with your saliva and releases the hydrogen peroxide. This solution is the real bleaching agent. Basically, the oxygen it contains works to break down the stains on the surface of the teeth. However, the hydrogen peroxide solution is combined with urea, the source of the carbon and nitrogen, which changes it to carbamide peroxide. When carbamide peroxide mixes with water, it releases oxygen.
Hydrogen peroxide-urea is a solid composed of equal amounts of hydrogen peroxide and urea. This compound is a white crystalline solid, which dissolves in water to give free hydrogen peroxide. Hydrogen peroxide-urea is mainly used as a disinfecting and bleaching agent in cosmetics and pharmaceuticals. As a drug, this compound is used in some preparations for the whitening of teeth.
Answer: Both hydrogen peroxide and carbamide peroxide are effective whitening ingredients. Carbamide peroxide is a larger, more complex molecule and has about 1/3 the strength of hydrogen peroxide. In other words, 30% carbamide peroxide has about the same strength as 10% hydrogen peroxide. Answer: A peroxygen compound is a whitening molecule has an extra oxygen that can be released under certain conditions to lighten stains on teeth. The most popular examples are carbamide peroxide and
Carbamide peroxide is a chemical consisting of molecules of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen and oxygen. At the foundation of the chemical is the same hydrogen peroxide you may have in your medicine cabinet to clean infections. However, the hydrogen peroxide solution is combined with urea, the source of the carbon and nitrogen, which changes it to carbamide peroxide. When carbamide peroxide mixes with water, it releases oxygen.
Save. Carbamide peroxide is a chemical most frequently used in teeth-whitening procedures conducted in a dentist's office. However, lower concentrations of the chemical can have other beneficial medical uses, including the loosening of excess ear wax and the treatment of sores in the mouth. However, the hydrogen peroxide solution is combined with urea, the source of the carbon and nitrogen, which changes it to carbamide peroxide. When carbamide peroxide mixes with water, it releases oxygen.
Hydrogen Peroxide Teeth Whitening. When you get your teeth whitened, hydrogen peroxide is what actually whitens them. Even if you are using carbamide peroxide, what actually whitens your teeth is hydrogen peroxide. Something that many people don’t know is that carbamide peroxide is made from hyrdrogen peroxide. To create carbamide peroxide, a urea molecule is added to the hydrogen peroxide molecule and the result is carbamide peroxide