Definition. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection is caused by a type of staph bacteria that's become resistant to many of the antibiotics used to treat ordinary staph infections. 
The usual entry points of these bacteria are open cuts on the skin or any small wounds. There are many types of staph infections on the skin, but among the common symptoms they all share are redness on the skin accompanied by swelling, and/or a bit of fever or a feeling of warmth. The first kind of infection is cellulitis, which starts with redness, some swelling, and pain. 
1 Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, known as MRSA, is a type of Staphylococcus aureus that is resistant to the antibiotic methicillin and other drugs in this class. 2  Staph infections are treated with topical, oral, or intravenous antibiotics, depending upon the type of infection. 1 Staphylococcus is group of bacteria that can cause a multitude of diseases. 2  Staph infections may cause disease due to direct infection or due to the production of toxins by the bacteria.
General Information about Staphylococcus aureus. Staphylococcus aureus [staf I lō-kok is aw ree us] (staph), is a type of bacteria that about 30% of people carry in their noses. Most of the time, staph does not cause any harm; however, sometimes staph causes infections. In healthcare settings, these infections can be serious or fatal, including:
MRSA (methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus) is a type of staphylococcus bacteria (staph) that is resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics. MRSA is contagious and can cause life-threatening infection. MRSA isn’t found in the natural environment (soil or water). Some strains of staph developed resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics. It is estimated that 2 percent of the population now carry a strain of staph that is resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics. Most of the staph infections that now occur in hospitals are caused by MRSA.
Skin Home. A staph infection is caused by Staphylococcus bacteria. Several different types of Staphylococcus (staph for short) can cause infections in humans (see Staph Infection Causes) . Most of the time, staph bacteria cause skin infections; however, they can also cause more serious infections. As mentioned, the most common part of the body infected by Staphylococcus is the skin. Staph infections that affect the skin include:
Staph bacteria can cause a wide range of infections, from relatively minor skin infections such as boils, to more serious infections of the blood, lungs and heart. There are many types of Staphylococci, but most infections are caused by a group called Staphylococcus aureus. This group of bacteria includes meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) , which is resistant to certain antibiotics that are commonly used for staph infections, such as flucloxacillin.
A staph infection is caused by a Staphylococcus (or staph) bacteria. Actually, about 25% of people normally carry staph in the nose, mouth, genitals, or anal area, and don’t have symptoms of an infection. The foot is also very prone to picking up bacteria from the floor. 
Definition. Staph infections are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals. Most of the time, these bacteria cause no problems or result in relatively minor skin infections. 