Australia is a developed country and one of the wealthiest in the world, with the world's 12th-largest economy. In 2014 Australia had the world's fifth-highest per capita income. Australia's military expenditure is the world's 13th-largest. Australia (/ɒˈstreɪliə/ , /ə-/ , colloquially /-jə/), officially the Commonwealth of Australia, is an Oceanian country comprising the mainland of the Australian continent, the island of Tasmania, and numerous smaller islands.
In geopolitical terms, however, New Zealand, the Solomon Islands, Vanuatu and New Caledonia are almost always considered part of Oceania, and Australia and Papua New Guinea are usually considered part of Oceania too. The rest are Maluku Islands and Papua, as Puncak Jaya is often considered the highest peak in Oceania. As an ecozone, Oceania includes all of Micronesia, Fiji, and all of Polynesia except New Zealand. New Zealand, along with New Guinea and nearby islands, part of Philippines islands, Australia, the Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, and New Caledonia, constitute the separate Australasian ecozone.
Mako Island. 404 pages on this wiki. Mako Island is a fictional island in the H2O: Just Add Water, Mako: Island of Secrets and H2O-Mermaid Adventures series. It is located approximately 50 km off the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia. This article is a stub. You can help H2O Just Add Water Wiki by expanding it.
Indonesia is situated to Australia's immediate north and shares land borders with Papua New Guinea, Brunei and Malaysia. Indonesia is the largest of Australia's near neighbours with 60% of its large population crowded into the island of Java and its national capital in Jakarta. It consists of an arc of 17 508 islands that stretch for roughly 5 120 kilometres and in which 6000 are inhabited. With the inclusion of all of Australia's island territories it is the largest Fishing Zone. Australia has a legal claim to this continental shelf under the Law of the Sea Convention (LOSC) (1982). These territorial limits exceed 350 nautical miles (649 kilometres) with the inclusion of the Lord Howe Island territory.
Australia is the largest Island in the World, with an estimated population of just over 20 million people. Australia has 8222 Islands and more than 7 Million square kilometers of land to cover you are bound to find suitable places to Visit. Australia has 6 states and 2 territories. 
AUSTRALIA | Thursday, 7 April 2011 | Views [15538] | Comments [1]. Australia itself is the largest island in the world. There’s so much to do in this mammoth country, that you might not realise Australia also has 8222 islands off its shores. 
However, to Australia's northwest is the island of Timor, which is divide … d between East Timor and Indonesia. 
1 Bare Island, near the north headland of Botany Bay. 2  Bird Island, located near Budgewoi, 1.4 kilometres (0.87 mi) east of the Central Coast. 3  Boondelbah Island, at the mouth of Port Stephens. 4  Broughton Island (New South Wales) , located north of Port Stephens. This is a list of selected Australian islands grouped by State or Territory. Australia has 8,222 islands within its maritime borders. The area of the continent of Australia is 6,560,000 square kilometres (2,530,000 sq mi). The islands larger than 1,000 square kilometres (390 sq mi) are: 1  Mainland Tasmania (Tas) 64,519 square kilometres (24,911 sq mi);