From WinRARPasswordCracker: WinRAR Password Cracker allows you to recover/crack your lost password for WinRAR/RAR files easily and effectively. The application try to unlock your winrar file by two different ways. One is brute-force password recovery, which will test all possible combinations of characters. 
In this case, firstly try to unlock the encrypted RAR file by the following 2 means. 1. Double click your password encrypted RAR file. Then double click to expand the folders saved in it. Maybe you can find the password there. 2. Try to use the website where you downloaded the encrypted RAR file as the extracting password. If failed to unlock the encrypted RAR file with the above means, now provided you the powerful and certainly effective software called iSumsoft RAR Password Refixer.
RAR Password Cracker. This program is intended to recover lost passwords for RAR/WinRAR archives of versions 2.90- 5.xx. The program finds by the method of exhaustive search all possible combinations of characters (bruteforce method), or using passwords from lists (wordlist or dictionary method). 
Is it possible to find password of files inside RAR archive, that I have uncompressed files outside that archive and the files are exactly the same as in the archive? Unfortunately, you cannot easily obtain the password of a RAR archive. The fact that you have the uncompressed and the corresponding compressed files next to each other, does not help with cracking the password.
Rar is the most common Compression format.It is quite common for someone to forget the RAR File password which has been encrypted.This tutorial will teachh you how to recover lost Winrar (RAR) file passwords using a Tool called RAR Password Recovery. Follow the steps in the video to recover the passwords. 
Open RAR file in WinRAR, and extract RAR file. When a dialog asks for a password, enter password you just found for RAR file and click OK. Then original RAR file password is removed and it is extracted. Now you can choose to compress files to RAR file again or not. No matter what you do, you have could bypass RAR file password to open or edit files compressed in RAR archive. Related Articles: 1  How to Extract Encrypted RAR File. 2  How to Set a Password to RAR File. 3  How to Remove and Reset RAR Password.
Here are all the steps about WinRAR password unlocker with RAR Password Recovery: Step1: Download RAR Password Recovery, then install it on your computer. Step2: Double click on RAR Password Recovery icon to launch it quickly. Step3: Click the Open button on the top of RAR Password Recovery main windows to load your locked WinRAR archive. Step4: Choose an attack type from 3 attacks and then define each attack setting. Here’s the solution to unlock the forgotten WinRAR password. Yes, we can again unlock the lost or forgotten WinRAR password and even in a very easy way. That is using a credible third party software program like RAR Password Recovery tool to locate the password and open the encrypted file.
2. Import RAR file into RAR Password Genius after it is run. With “Open” button on RAR password recovery tool, you can browse RAR file on your computer and import it into “Encrypted File” box. 3. Select password attack type after RAR file is imported. From Type of attack drop-down list, you can see four powerful password attack types. Now you can choose to compress files to RAR file again or not. No matter what you do, you have could bypass RAR file password to open or edit files compressed in RAR archive. Related Articles: 1  How to Extract Encrypted RAR File. 2  How to Set a Password to RAR File. 3  How to Remove and Reset RAR Password.
Because of the similarity between RAR and ZIP file password recovery, now we just need to see how to find RAR file password with RAR Password Genius. 1. Look for RAR Password Genius, then download and install it on computer. When you download it, you can find there are two versions available, trial and full version. Now you can choose to compress files to RAR file again or not. No matter what you do, you have could bypass RAR file password to open or edit files compressed in RAR archive. Related Articles: 1  How to Extract Encrypted RAR File. 2  How to Set a Password to RAR File. 3  How to Remove and Reset RAR Password.
Ad. 2. Add your files to a new RAR archive. There are a couple of different ways that you can do this: 1  Open the WinRAR window and then browse for the files you want to add. 2  Select all the files and then click the Add button. 3  Select all of the files you want to archive in Windows.