1 A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 2  The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals.
1 Glands can also swell following an injury, such as a cut or bite, near the gland or when a tumor or infection occurs in the mouth, head, or neck. 2  Glands in the armpit (axillary lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection to the arm or hand.
The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is an infection, particularly a viral infection, such as the common cold. However, there are other types of infections, including parasitic and bacterial, and other possible causes of swollen lymph nodes. They include:
Pain in your lymph nodes or body glands can be the result of swollen glands due to infection. However, pain in the areas surrounding your glands can also stem from an injury and the resulting radiating pains.
1 The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals. 2  In rare cases, testicular cancer, lymphoma, or melanoma may cause a lump in this area.
The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes in the neck is a viral infection such as the common cold. Bacterial infections that can cause swollen neck lymph nodes include an infected tooth and strep throat. Immune system disorders and some types of cancer can also lead to swollen neck lymph nodes.
1 Glands in the armpit (axillary lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection to the arm or hand. 2  A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 3  The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals.
Try to locate and identify the cause of a swollen gland. If the nodes in the groin are swollen, look for an injury in the legs and lower abdomen. If the armpit nodes are swollen, examine the arms and upper chest. Swelling of the back-of-the-neck nodes suggests an irritation on the scalp.