Spanish, along with English, is the official language of Colombia. A large number of people speak Colombian Spanish. There are 88 recognized regional languages spoken by various ethnic groups present in the country. Santa Fe de Bogota bogotá is the largest city Of. Colombia the national constitution designated it as the capital of the department Of. Cundinamarca it is the among the thirty largest cities in the, world and is the-third highest capital city In Latin. America the city is also known  As The athens Of South. america
The overwhelming majority of Colombians speak Spanish (see also Colombian Spanish), but in total 101 languages are listed for Colombia in the Ethnologue database. The specific number of spoken languages varies slightly since some authors consider as different languages what others consider are varieties or dialects of the same language, the best estimates recorded that 70 languages are spoken in the country today.
The official language of Colombia is Spanish. However, the  languages of ethnic groups are also official in their territories.    Here is a list of all 82 local langua … ges of Colombia (dozens of  which are on the verge of extinction):    1. Portuguese is the European language that's the official language of Brazil. It's the most widely spoken, and understood, language throughout the country. It's the language of … the country's first European explorers and settlers.
The official language of Colombia is Spanish. However, the  languages of ethnic groups are also official in their territories.    Here is a list of all 82 local langua … ges of Colombia (dozens of  which are on the verge of extinction):    1. Achagua   2. Portuguese is the European language that's the official language of Brazil. It's the most widely spoken, and understood, language throughout the country. It's the language of … the country's first European explorers and settlers.
The official language of Colombia is Spanish.    English is also the official in San Andres and Providence islands.    There are 72 languages and dialects of eth … nic groups that are also  official in their regions.    Colombia only has 1 official language: Spanish. Portuguese is the European language that's the official language of Brazil. It's the most widely spoken, and understood, language throughout the country. It's the language of … the country's first European explorers and settlers.
More than 99.2% of Colombians speak the Spanish language; also 65 Amerindian languages, 2 Creole languages and the romani language are spoken in the country. English has official status in the San Andres, Andrés providencia And Santa Catalina. islands The specific number of spoken languages varies slightly since some authors consider as different languages what others consider are varieties or dialects of the same language, the best estimates recorded that 70 languages are spoken in the country today.
The official language of Colombia is Spanish. English is also the official in San Andres and Providence islands. There are 72 languages and dialects of ethnic groups that are also official in their regions. Colombia only has 1 official language: Spanish. Portuguese is the European language that's the official language of Brazil. It's the most widely spoken, and understood, language throughout the country. It's the language of … the country's first European explorers and settlers.
Language Counts. The number of individual languages listed for Colombia is 101. Of these, 84 are living and 17 are extinct. Of the living languages, 3 are institutional, 24 are developing, 8 are vigorous, 36 are in trouble, and 13 are dying. Official Name. 