The EGR Valve is located in the engine compartment on the Ford  Focus. The EGR Valve is set almost dead center into the top of the  motor. The EGR Valve looks like a small c … arburetor with caps on the  top and sides. The PVC valve is located on the back side of the drivers side valve cover. It has a black hose approximately 5 in length and 1 in diameter attached to it. The other end of … the hose attaches to the intake manifold. Both ends of the hose are attached by pushing over the fittings, no clamps.
The EGR valve, or Exhaust Gas Recirculation valve, is a vacuum controlled valve which allows a specific amount of your exhaust back into the intake manifold. This exhaust mixes with the intake air and actually cools the combustion process. 
The EGR valve, or the gas recirculation valve, allows the gas exhaust to enter into the combustion chamber to reduce the volume of the combustible mixture, resulting in a slight loss of power. If the flow from the EGR valve is excessive, the engine will burn fuel inefficiently and experience increased emissions. 
Disconnect the electrical cable. The electrical cable is located on top of the EGR valve. Grab the electrical cable with your hands and pull it. 1  If the electrical cable is held in by a clip or clamp, use a flat-bladed screwdriver to press it down and release it. 
The EGR valve is going to be located under the hood as you can see I have it open here. I know just from experience that this is the EGR valve. It's the little space ship looking device, and the reason why it's round and flat is because it has a diaphragm in it. 
EGR valve on top of the inlet manifold of a Saab H engine in a 1987 Saab 90. In internal combustion engines, exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) is a nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions reduction technique used in petrol/gasoline and diesel engines. 
Find out where the EGR valve is located on a Dodge Charger. The EGR valve is an antonym for Exhaust Gas Re-circulation valve. Without the valve working properly, it could cause your Dodge Charger to run poorly. The EGR valve is equipped with a hose that controls it and allows it to open and close to circulate exhaust gas into the combustion chamber of a Dodge Charger. The EGR valve is located in the manifold of a Dodge Charger. The manifold is usually located deep down in the engine of a Dodge Charger on the right side. The EGR valve is a small part, but it belongs to a much larger system. 
If you pop the hood and look at the top of the engine the EGR is located on the top forward left side of the engine. It has a small hose coming into the top of it, and a large … metal pipe coming into the side of it from the left side of the engine area, and bolts onto the engine with two 10mm bolts. The PVC valve is located on the back side of the drivers side valve cover. It has a black hose approximately 5 in length and 1 in diameter attached to it. The other end of … the hose attaches to the intake manifold. Both ends of the hose are attached by pushing over the fittings, no clamps.
The egr valve is usually located on the intake manifold or head. There is a diaphram in the egr valve. The valve uses manifold vacuum on the diaphram to lift or close a valve allowing exhaust gas to enter the intake manifold. An easy test for the diaphram is to remove the vacuum line that runs to the egr valve. You can normally reach the diaphram area with your finger
Most commonly located on the intake manifold, the EGR valve uses a signal from the vehicle’s computer or vacuum from the induction system to open a passage and allow the engine’s exhaust gasses to be reintroduced back into the engine, combined with incoming air / fuel mixture. 