Using a sharp kitchen knife, carefully start making a series of vertical cuts width-wise through the potato, making sure not to cut all the way through-cuts should only be 3/4 of the way through the potato. Place sliced potatoes on an baking sheet slices up, then drizzle top with oil, salt and pepper. Bake for 50 minutes. Time may vary depending on size of potato and oven. After my potatoes were done I decided to add some shredded cheese, green onion and sausage bits. 
Brush the whole potato with olive oil and sprinkle with sea salt. Place the potatoes on foil and bake at 425 degrees. After 30 minutes of baking, brush the tops with additional olive oil and sprinkle with more sea salt. Return to the oven for an additional 30 minutes. 1 Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 2  Cut the top off of the potatoes. 3  Use a small, thin, flexible knife to cut rings around the inside of the potato. 4  Flip the potato over and make cuts all the way around the potato, leaving a small space at the top uncut.
1 Slice the potatoes crosswise (the short way) into 1/4 inch slices, leaving about 1/4 inch on the bottom to connect all of the slices. 2  Place into a baking dish, and slightly fan the slices open. 3  Sprinkle with salt and seasoning blend, and drizzle with butter. 4  Bake for 50 minutes in the preheated oven. Ready In. 1  Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F (200 degrees C). 2  Slice the potatoes crosswise (the short way) into 1/4 inch slices, leaving about 1/4 inch on the bottom to connect all of the slices. 3  Place into a baking dish, and slightly fan the slices open. 4
1 Sprinkle the potatoes with salt and pepper: Generously sprinkle the potatoes on all sides with salt and pepper. 2  Prick all over with a fork: Prick the potatoes in a few places with the tines of a fork. 3  This allows steam to escape from the baking potato. 1 It's easiest to use your hands, but a pastry brush also works fine. 2  Sprinkle the potatoes with salt and pepper: Generously sprinkle the potatoes on all sides with salt and pepper. 3  Prick all over with a fork: Prick the potatoes in a few places with the tines of a fork. 4
1 Cut potatoes into thin slices, but NOT all the way through. ( 2 Place a handle of a spoon or table knife along-side the potato to prevent the knife from slicing all the way.). 3  Put Potatoes in a baking dish; slightly fan out the slices. 4  Sprinkle with salt and drizzle with butter. 1 (Place a handle of a spoon or table knife along-side the potato to prevent the knife from slicing all the way.). 2  Put Potatoes in a baking dish; slightly fan out the slices. 3  Sprinkle with salt and drizzle with butter. 4  Sprinkle with herbs.
Then pour a little olive oil, and sprinkle a good amount of salt on a parchment lined baking sheet. Coat the cut potato halves with the olive oil and salt, and place them on the baking sheet, cut side down. Just use your hands to coat the potatoes with the oil and salt. It’s easier. 1 Coat potatoes all sides with olive oil and salt, and place cut side down on lined baking sheet. 2  Sprinkle potatoes with additional salt. 3  Bake at 400°F for 30-40 minutes until done. 4  Check with fork for doneness
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Scrub the potatoes, cut them in half lengthwise, then cut each half in thirds lengthwise. You'll have 6 long wedges from each potato. Place the potatoes on a sheet pan with the olive oil, salt, pepper, garlic, and rosemary. With clean hands, toss all the ingredients together, making sure the potatoes are covered with oil. Spread the potatoes in a single layer with 1 cut-side down. Bake the potatoes for 30 to 35 minutes, turning to the other cut side after 20 minutes. Bake until they are lightly browned, crisp outside, and tender inside
1 Peel potatoes, if the skin is too tough, otherwise just scrub and rinse them. 2  Cut potatoes into thin slices, but NOT all the way through. ( 3 Place a handle of a spoon or table knife along-side the potato to prevent the knife from slicing all the way.). 4  Put Potatoes in a baking dish; slightly fan out the slices. 1 (Place a handle of a spoon or table knife along-side the potato to prevent the knife from slicing all the way.). 2  Put Potatoes in a baking dish; slightly fan out the slices. 3  Sprinkle with salt and drizzle with butter. 4  Sprinkle with herbs.