No matter the origin, though, words rarely, if ever, are immediately accepted into the English language. Here is a list of the most common foreign language influences in English, where other languages have influenced or contributed words to English. 1  Celtic words are almost absent, except for dialectal words, such as the Yan Tan Tethera system of counting sheep. 1 Joseph M. Williams, in Origins of the English Language, estimated that about 1% of English words are of Dutch origin. 2  See also: List of English words of Dutch origin, List of place names of Dutch origin, Dutch linguistic influence on naval terms and List of English words of Afrikaans origin.
Over the centuries, the English language has been influenced by a number of other languages. Old English (450 - 1100 AD): During the 5th Century AD three Germanic tribes (Saxons, Angles, and Jutes) came to the British Isles from various parts of northwest Germany as well as Denmark. 
William Shakespeare's influence extends from theatre and literature to present-day movies, Western philosophy, and the English language itself. Shakespeare's blank verse is one of the most important of all his influences on the way the English language was written. He used the blank verse throughout in his writing career experimenting and perfecting it.
1 Scandinavian languages such as Old Norse-words such as sky and troll or, more recently, geysir. 2  Norman words: castle, cauldron, kennel, catch, cater are among Norman words introduced into English. 3  The Norman language also introduced (or reinforced) words of Norse origin such as mug. 1 Joseph M. Williams, in Origins of the English Language, estimated that about 1% of English words are of Dutch origin. 2  See also: List of English words of Dutch origin, List of place names of Dutch origin, Dutch linguistic influence on naval terms and List of English words of Afrikaans origin.
The impact of the King James Bible, which was published 400 years ago, is still being felt in the way we speak and write, says Stephen Tomkins. No other book, or indeed any piece of culture, seems to have influenced the English language as much as the King James Bible. Its turns of phrase have permeated the everyday language of English speakers, whether or not they've ever opened a copy. The Sun says Aston Villa refused to give up the ghost
(Answer #1). Latin has influenced the English language tremendously. Most of the influence, however, has been indirect. The indirect effect of Latin on English came mainly after the Normans invaded England in 1066. Their language, not suprisingly, influenced English. Since their language (French) was a Romance language descended from Latin, this gave Latin an indirect influence on English. Latin also influenced Old English directly because of the Roman Conquest of England.
The English language has been shaped by a number of other languages over the centuries, and many English speakers know that Latin and German were two of the most important. This Germanic base was influenced in varying degrees by Celtic, Latin, and Scandinavian (Old Norse) - the languages spoken by invading armies. Bill Bryson calls the Norman conquest of 1066 the final cataclysm [which] awaited the English language..
The Normans spoke an ancient Romance language called ‘Old Norman.’ It is because of the Norman influence on the English language, as well as the influence of Latin, that modern English bears many similarities to Romance languages such as Spanish and French. Modern English is similar to Middle English, but it has a much vaster vocabulary. For several centuries, English has been incorporating words from languages all around the world, and today English has the largest lexicon of any language.
All you need is your ears to see how Latin has influenced the English language. Affidavit, Alma Mater, Alter Ego, Carpe Diem, In Memoriam, Per Capita, Vice Versa, Et Cetera .... Are just SOME of the everyday phrases you will hear that have been influenced by the Latin language. Their language, not suprisingly, influenced English. Since their language (French) was a Romance language descended from Latin, this gave Latin an indirect influence on English. Latin also influenced Old English directly because of the Roman Conquest of England.
He is widely regarded as the greatest writer in the history of the English language, and the world's pre-eminent dramatist. Shakespeare transformed European theatre by expanding expectations about what could be accomplished through innovation in characterization, plot, language and genre. Shakespeare's blank verse is one of the most important of all his influences on the way the English language was written. He used the blank verse throughout in his writing career experimenting and perfecting it.