SAFE for Aviation modernizes your security operations by streaming your physical identity management and compliance across your airport for a more secure and efficient customer experience both today and tomorrow. One Central Location To Manage Your Security Infrastructure. SAFE ensures the right Physical Identities – i.e. employees, contractors, vendors, visitors –are properly authenticated and have the right access to the right areas, for the right reasons for a specified duration of time – auditable 24x7.
“The SAFE software suite allows organizations to manage identities across multiple sites for employees, visitors, vendors, and contractors.”. Quantum Secure was founded in 2004 and the head office is located in San Jose, California. The company has some 175 employees and contractors. Bookings are expected to reach USD 45 M (approx. “I am very happy to welcome Quantum Secure to the ASSA ABLOY Group. This acquisition reinforces our strategy of being the world leader in secure identity solutions. Quantum Secure takes us one step further in being able to provide our customers with an end to end identity management system.
AUSTIN, Texas—Secure identity provider HID Global has acquired Quantum Secure, a provider of identity management software. Denis Hebert, HID Global CEO, told Security Systems News that the deal brings an important new capability to HID. “We have added to the overall equation,” Hebert said. Jain said the combination of HID and Quantum will be the “best in the industry” as the secure identity/access control market goes mobile. “HID has the Seos solution to deliver secure credentials on the phone.
Quantum Secure is headquartered in the heart of Silicon Valley and continues to expand operations throughout the world with offices in: United Kingdom, India, Brazil and other satellite locations. 
Founded in 2004, Quantum Secure’s SAFE software platform is designed to manage identities and meet regulatory compliance requirements across multiple sites and systems. Quantum’s customers include the new World Trade Center in New York, San Francisco Airport, U.S. Department of Energy, AT&T and eBay. Jain said the combination of HID and Quantum will be the “best in the industry” as the secure identity/access control market goes mobile. “HID has the Seos solution to deliver secure credentials on the phone.
Quantum Secure SAFE/SAFE Agent. Quantum Secure SAFE integrates with Software House’s C•CURE 9000 access control system to enable data exchange between the two systems in a seamless manner. A log file of all the transactions that happen between SAFE and C•CURE 9000 is also maintained for audit purposes. SAFE modules that leverage this agent functionality include SAFE Physical Identity and Access Manager (PIAM) and SAFE Visitor Identity Manager (VIM).
ASSA ABLOY (STO:ASSAB) has acquired Quantum Secure, Inc, the leading provider of solutions to help enterprises manage identities and meet compliance requirements in highly-regulated industries. “I am very happy to welcome Quantum Secure to the ASSA ABLOY Group. This acquisition reinforces our strategy of being the world leader in secure identity solutions. Quantum Secure takes us one step further in being able to provide our customers with an end to end identity management system.
Hebert said Quantum Secure’s success has been driven by how they interface PACS with software systems—such as SAP, Oracle, HRIS as well as with Active Directory—that determine workflow and policy. Compliance management for a large utility could take a team of 20 people, Hebert said. Jain said the combination of HID and Quantum will be the “best in the industry” as the secure identity/access control market goes mobile. “HID has the Seos solution to deliver secure credentials on the phone.