Yes, Medicare will pay for portable nebulizers as long as they are ordered as medically necessary by your doctor for conditions such as COPD, HIV, CF, pneumocystosis, tracehostomy and some others. The expense is covered by Part B and you may have to choose whether to rent or purchase your nebulizer.
If you use a nebulizer to convert medication for asthma or another condition into an aerosol mist, Walgreens has you covered. We have the equipment, training and supplies to support your treatment and can also fill all of your prescription respiratory medications.
If your breathing problem is so severe that you require medication, a nebulizer may help. It is a machine that delivers your medicine in the form of a mist or steam. You simply put the medication in the machine, put the accompanying mask or cup over your mouth and nose, and then breathe.
Also, Medicare does not cover the nebulizer unless the related medication is covered. Your Medicare coverage will include necessary supplies for use of the nebulizer. You can buy up to a three month's supply of nebulizer medications and accessories at a time.
A. A. A nebulizer changes medication from a liquid to a mist so that it can be more easily inhaled into the lungs. Nebulizers are particularly effective in delivering asthma medications to infants and small children and to anyone who has difficulty using an asthma inhaler.
Are nebulizers covered by health insurance? The cost for a nebulizer is usually about $50 and some of the smaller or fancier models can be priced at more than $100. When budgeting to pay for the machine, you should be aware that your medicine and any additions like a carrying case will cost extra.
Nebulized therapy is often called a breathing treatment.. And a variety of medications -- both for immediate relief and maintenance of asthma symptoms -- are available for use with a nebulizer. Nebulizers come in home (tabletop) and portable models.
To obtain an asthma nebulizer, you need a prescription from your physician. Home nebulizers vary in cost (approximately $200-250) and are usually covered under the durable medical equipment portion of health insurance policies.