The United States purchased Alaska from the Russian Empire on March 30, 1867, for 7.2 million U.S. dollars at approximately two cents per acre ($4.74/km 2). The area went through several administrative changes before becoming organized as a territory on May 11, 1912. 
On March 30, 1867, the United States agreed to purchase Alaska from Russia for $7.2 million dollars, about two cents an acre; Seward's Folly many called it, after Secretary of State William H. Seward. When the agreement to purchase the Alaska territory from Russia was struck in 1867 by Secretary of State William H. Seward, there were many in the lower 48 states, who looked upon the deal with skepticism and were critical of the secrecy that had surrounded it and of the high price tag.
The 1867 Treaty of Cession, in which the United States purchased Alaska from the Russian empire, marked an unusually peaceful transition. The purchase of Alaska was done under amicable circumstances, and both Russia and the U.S. felt they gained from the Treaty. The Treaty with Russia was negotiated and signed by Secretary of State William Seward and Russian Minister to the United States Edouard de Stoeckl. Critics of the deal to purchase Alaska called it Sewards Folly or Sewards Icebox.. Opposition to the purchase of Alaska subsided with the Klondike Gold Strike in 1896.
On March 30, 1867, the United States reached an agreement to purchase Alaska from Russia for a price of $7.2 million. The Treaty with Russia was negotiated and signed by Secretary of State William Seward and Russian Minister to the United States Edouard de Stoeckl. Critics of the deal to purchase Alaska called it Sewards Folly or Sewards Icebox.. Opposition to the purchase of Alaska subsided with the Klondike Gold Strike in 1896.
When did the United States buy Alaska? The United States purchased Alaska from Russia in 1867, for the sum of $ 7.2 million USD. Secretary of State William Seward accepted the terms of sale on March 30, and the Sen … ate approved the treaty on April 9, 1867. The formal transfer was on October 12, 1867. The United States bought Alaska from Russia in 1867 for only 7.2 million dollars. The reason was for the hope of gold deposits and rich quantity of animal furs. The US wanted to get more land.
Reactions to the purchase in the United States were mixed, with some opponents calling it Seward's Folly (after Secretary of State William H. Seward), while many others praised the move for weakening both Britain and Russia as rivals to American commercial expansion in the Pacific region. With the purchase of Alaska, negotiated by Secretary Seward, the United States acquired an area twice as large as Texas, but it was not until the great Klondike gold strike in 1896 that Alaska came to be seen generally as a valuable addition to American territory.
The US $7.2 million check used to pay for Alaska ($121 million in 2015 dollars). The Alaska Purchase was the United States' acquisition of Alaska from the Russian Empire in 1867 by a treaty ratified by the United States Senate. Russia wanted to sell its Alaskan territory, fearing that it might be seized if war broke out with Britain. With the purchase of Alaska, negotiated by Secretary Seward, the United States acquired an area twice as large as Texas, but it was not until the great Klondike gold strike in 1896 that Alaska came to be seen generally as a valuable addition to American territory.
In 1867, U.S. Secretary of State William Seward made the deal to purchase Russia’s claim to Alaska for $7.2 million, proclaimed by the Treaty of Cession. The Treaty contains the first written legal reference to Alaska Native people. 
April 20, 2014 Georgy Manaev, RBTH. In 1867, Russia sold the territory of Alaska to the U.S. for $7.2 million. A mere 50 years later, the Americans had earned that amount back 100 times over. How could the imperial officials have given up such a choice parcel? 