The peritoneum /ˌpɛrɨtəˈniːəm/ is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or coelom in amniotes and some invertebrates, such as annelids. It covers most of the intra-abdominal (or coelomic) organs, and is composed of a layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue. 
Review Answer: B Rationale: The pancreas, kidneys, and ovaries lie in the retroperitoneal space, which is behind the peritoneum, and are often the cause of acute abdominal pain. The liver, stomach, and small intestine are all found within the true (anterior) abdomen. 
The retroperitoneal space (retroperitoneum) is the anatomical space (sometimes a potential space) in the abdominal cavity behind (retro) the peritoneum. It has no specific delineating anatomical structures. Organs are retroperitoneal if they have peritoneum on their anterior side only. Structures that are not suspended by mesentery in the abdominal cavity and that lie between the parietal peritoneum and abdominal wall are classified as retroperitoneal. The retroperitoneum can be further subdivided into the following:
No, the spleen is not retroperitoneal because it is inside the peritoneum. The peritoneum is the sac that holds most of our major organs in the abdomen. The kidneys are retrop … eritoneal. 6 people found this useful. 
The peritoneum consists of two layers which are continuous with each other; the parietal peritoneum and the visceral peritoneum. They both consist of a layer of simple squamous epithelial cells, called mesothelium. 
Retroperitoneal organs are found behind the peritoneum, between it and the abdominal wall. These include the kidneys, adrenals, and pancreas. Primarily retroperitoneal: No, the spleen is not retroperitoneal because it is inside the peritoneum. The peritoneum is the sac that holds most of our major organs in the abdomen. The kidneys are retrop … eritoneal. 6 people found this useful.
Is the anatomical space behind (retro) the abdominal cavity.Structures that lie behind the peritoneum are termed retroperitoneal.   Kidneys, Bladder, Pancreas, Vena C … ava, Aorta, parts of the Duodenum, portions of the Colon, Reproductive organs. No, the spleen is not retroperitoneal because it is inside the peritoneum. The peritoneum is the sac that holds most of our major organs in the abdomen. The kidneys are retrop … eritoneal. 6 people found this useful.
In your abdominal cavity is a membrane called the peritoneum, the intermost lining is the visceral peritoneum, which adheres to and supports the organs. the parietal peritoneum is the outer lining that adheres to the walls of the abdominal cavity. No, the spleen is not retroperitoneal because it is inside the peritoneum. The peritoneum is the sac that holds most of our major organs in the abdomen. The kidneys are retrop … eritoneal. 6 people found this useful.
Retroperitoneal space is the anatomical space in the abdominal cavity behind the parietal peritoneum. It extends from the 12 th thoracic vertebra and 12 th rib above to the sacrum and iliac crest below. The floor of the space, that is the posterior wall of the abdomen in this region, is formed by; 1  Psoas muscle. There are two types of retroperitoneal organs: Primary retroperitoneal and Secondary retroperitoneal. Primary retroperitoneal: These are structures which are retroperitoneal from the start of their development. These include: Urinary structures. 1  Suprarenal glands.