Regional Supplements. Therefore, an area that meets the hydric soil definition must also meet the hydrophytic vegetation and wetland hydrology definitions in order for it to be correctly classified as a jurisdictional wetland. The national list of hydric soils is maintained in a computer file and is updated yearly. Field Indicators. Field Indicators are soil characteristics which are documented to be strictly associated only with hydric soils. Field Indicators are an efficient on-site means to confirm the presence of hydric soil.
Profile #1 is a hydric soil and the wettest of the soils in this photo series. It shows two hydric soil characteristics, a thickened organic layer, explained below, and a gray matrix explained under the second profile. Profile #1 occurs at the lowest point in the wetland and is inundated for extended periods of time. The three critical factors that must exist for the soil to be classified as hydric soil are saturation, reduction and redoximorphic features. When a dominant portion of the soil exhibits these three elements the soil is classified a hydric soil.
Artificial hydric soil means a soil that meets the definition of a hydric soil as a result of an artificially induced hydrologic regime and did not meet the definition before the artificial measures were applied. The list has evolved from a national list of hydric soil series that may be hydric to a comprehensive list of all map units that have at least one map unit component that is hydric. The list also provides information on what component is at least in part hydric and where it is located on the landscape.
Definition. The definition of a hydric soil is a soil that formed under conditions of saturation, flooding or ponding long enough during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part. Field Indicators. Field Indicators are soil characteristics which are documented to be strictly associated only with hydric soils. Field Indicators are an efficient on-site means to confirm the presence of hydric soil.
Hydric soil is soil which is permanently or seasonally saturated by water, resulting in anaerobic conditions, as found in wetlands. This definition is provided in the controlling regulations to the Wetland Conservation Provisions of the FSA of 1985(7 C.F.R 12) and is used by the U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation Service in the administration of the Wetland Conservation Compliance provisions (Swampbuster) contained in the FSA of 1985.
Due to the ionic reducing conditions caused by long periods of inundation, most hydric soils have some very distinguishing characteristics. The following is a list of some common characteristics of hydric soils: 1  excessive moisture. 2  a rotten egg odor of hydrogen sulfide present within 12 inches of the surface. 3  a predominance of decomposed plant material (peats or mucks). 4  reddish or dark-colored mottles or streaks. 5  stratified layers in the top 6 inches. 
Hydric Soils-Introduction Definition The definition of a hydric soil is a soil that formed under conditions of saturation, flooding or ponding long enough during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part. These criteria CANNOT be used in the field to determine hydric soils. The purpose of the criteria is to generate a list of soil map unit components that are likely to meet the hydric soil definition. Caution must be used when comparing the list of hydric components to soil survey maps.
Four types of technical information about hydric soils are presented. 1. The current definition of a hydric soil -- This definition has been consistent in the overall concept that hydric soils are those soils that are sufficiently wet in the upper part to develop anaerobic conditions during the growing season. 2. These criteria CANNOT be used in the field to determine hydric soils. The purpose of the criteria is to generate a list of soil map unit components that are likely to meet the hydric soil definition. Caution must be used when comparing the list of hydric components to soil survey maps.
Summary. The goal of this document is to make landowners aware of what hydric soils are, where they are found, how they are formed and how their presence is determined. The blue underlined topics are directly linked to their section in the text. Click on the topic of interest to proceed directly to that section