Cost of vet bills for one year. If your dog has no health issues and everything goes smoothly you can expect to pay around 250.00 per year on vet check ups, yearly shots, de-wormer, flea protection, and heart worm prevention. Snacks for a year cost about 200 dollars. You can cut that down but then where is the fun in that. You buy a husky to have an active dog that loves to play with you so snacks are a big part of the fun as well as the toys.
Report Abuse. Well it really depends on where the dog comes from. If the dog comes from a Byb you could pay thousands of dollars a year in vet care due to poor breeding. Now a normal dog in good health a couple hundred a year pending routine vet care and dog food includeing basic dog supplies. They usually get along with other well adjusted canines but they will take up a challenge if offered. Some of the bad points: 1. They love people …. any people. This is sometimes seen as a lack of loyalty. 2. I do not believe that there is a type of dog that could be friendlier than a Husky. A Husky may alert you by his actions (running to a door or window etc) but he is not a watchdog by any stretch if the imagination
The purchase price of a well bred Siberian spread over one year of the dog's life is only about $30/month, $1/day and that is if we only pro-rate it for the FIRST year of the new family-member's life. Siberians usually live in excess of 10 years. $150-450 can usually get you a puppy with or without papers from a backyard breeder. Generally this is a pet owner that loves his/her Siberian Husky (with or without papers) and their reasons for breeding usually include:
Because dogs can eat slightly less when eating premium dog food, a husky would eat about 1 1/2 cups per day. That would equal about 23 pounds of food per month. Using the average premium price of $65 per bag, your cost would be approximately $50 per month. At 2 cans per day, your cost would be $75 per month. Premium canned food costs on average $2.50 per can. Feeding your dog slightly less of the premium food, you'll need 1 to 1 1/2 cans per day. At $2.50 per can for 45 cans, the cost would be $112.
The feeding recommendation for an adult Siberian husky is 1 ½ - 2 cans of wet food per day, based on a 12-oz can. Mid-range name brand dog food costs about $1.25 per can. At 2 cans per day, your cost would be $75 per month. Premium canned food costs on average $2.50 per can. Feeding your dog slightly less of the premium food, you'll need 1 to 1 1/2 cans per day. At $2.50 per can for 45 cans, the cost would be $112.50 per month.
1 Comment. Anonymous. The average cost for a Siberian Husky puppy from a responsible, reputable and knowledgeable breeder is between $850.00 - $1,500.00 depending on where the breeder lives. The Siberian Husky can be a good family dog and be perfectly fine with children as long as the puppy is raised with kids. 
Cost varies but we spend about 100 dollars a year for each dog. So if your puppy stays healthy and you just use the average priced foods and snacks your average cost to own a Siberian husky for each year is going to be around 1,000 dollars a year. Snacks for a year cost about 200 dollars. You can cut that down but then where is the fun in that. You buy a husky to have an active dog that loves to play with you so snacks are a big part of the fun as well as the toys.
Dry Dog Food. The typical recommendation for an adult Siberian husky is 2 cups of dry food a day. This varies depending on your dog's size and activity level. Two cups equals one pound of dog food, which equals 30 pounds of food per month. At 2 cans per day, your cost would be $75 per month. Premium canned food costs on average $2.50 per can. Feeding your dog slightly less of the premium food, you'll need 1 to 1 1/2 cans per day. At $2.50 per can for 45 cans, the cost would be $112.50
Pricing & Costs. Not all breeds are priced the same way; some are bred champions and others recreationally. Some breeds follow Hollywood trends, and some are rarely bred at all driving up their prices. The lowest price we've ever had advertised for the Siberian Husky is $20; the most expensive price is $7,500. Generally the average Siberian Husky costs around $504 to purchase. Keep this in mind when you see the prices vary greatly within our listings. If you don’t mind having the runt of the litter, or a pup who is far from a champion Siberian Husky, by all means explore the cheaper option