A volcano is a vent or chimney which transfers molten rock known as magma from depth to the Earth's surface. Magma erupting from a volcano is called lava and is the material which builds up the cone surrounding the vent. A volcano is active if it is erupting lava, releasing gas or generates seismic activity. A volcano is dormant if it has not erupted for a long time but could erupt again in the future. Once a volcano has been dormant for more than 10 000 years, it is termed extinct.
A volcano is simply a rapture (opening or vent) on the earth's surface (crust) through which molten magma (extremely hot mixture of gases, lava, ash and other burning substances) escape on to the earth's surface. 
Definition of VOLCANO for Kids. 1. : an opening in the earth's crust from which hot or melted rock and steam erupt. 2. : a hill or mountain composed of material thrown out in a volcanic eruption. Full Definition of VOLCANO. 1. : a vent in the crust of the earth or another planet or a moon from which usually molten or hot rock and steam issue; also: a hill or mountain composed wholly or in part of the ejected material. 2. : something of explosively violent potential. See volcano defined for English-language learners.
Shield volcano. When magma is very hot and runny, gases can escape and eruptions are gentle with considerable amounts of magma reaching the surface to form lava flows. Shield volcanoes have a broad, flattened dome-like shape created by layers of runny lava flowing over its surface and cooling. A volcano is active if it is erupting lava, releasing gas or generates seismic activity. A volcano is dormant if it has not erupted for a long time but could erupt again in the future. Once a volcano has been dormant for more than 10 000 years, it is termed extinct.
A volcano is a vent or fissure in Earth's crust through which lava, ash, rock and gases erupt. A volcano is also a mountain formed by the accumulation of these eruptive products. Let's take a look at how volcanoes form: Earth's crust is 40 to 250 miles (64 to 402 kilometers) thick. The world’s largest volcano, Mauna Loa in Hawaii, is a shield volcano. Mauna Loa is about 55,770 feet (17,000 meters) from its base beneath the ocean to the summit, which is 13,681 feet (4,170 meters) above sea level. It is also one of the Earth’s most active volcanoes and is carefully monitored.
The Sakurajima Volcano in Japan is one of the most active volcanoes in the world. Credit: Kimon Berlin. A volcano is an opening on the surface of a planet or moon that allows material warmer than its surroundings to escape from its interior. When this material escapes, it causes an eruption. An eruption can be explosive, sending material high into the sky. Or it can be calmer, with gentle flows of material. 
A volcano is a mountain where lava (hot, liquid rock) comes from a magma chamber under the ground. Most volcanoes have a volcanic crater at the top. When a volcano is active, materials come out of it. The materials include lava, steam, gaseous sulfur compounds, ash and broken rock pieces. When there is enough pressure, it causes the volcano to erupt. The pressure blows off the top of the volcano.
A volcano is a landform (usually a mountain) where molten rock erupts through the surface of the planet. In simple terms a volcano is a mountain that opens downward to a pool of molten rock (magma) below the surface of the earth. It is a hole in the Earth from which molten rock and gas erupt.
A volcano is an opening in the Earth's crust where magma from the mantle reaches the surface, sometimes in a slow, dribbling fashion, called an effusive eruption, and sometimes in a violent event called an explosive eruption. Basaltic lava has low silica content. This type of less viscous lava flows from the volcanoes in Hawaii. Rhyolite on the other hand is an igneous rock with a high silica content formed from more viscous lava flows. Basaltic flows are characterized by the rivers of lava flowing down a mountain.