Thus, school health programs that transmit any health information in electronic form when billing an insurer (or in connection with any other standard transaction) are covered entities and will have to comply with the requirements of the Transaction Rule when engaging in a standard transaction. Finally, it should be emphasized that most school nurses will probably never transmit any health information in electronic form in connection with a standard transaction and thus will not have to follow HIPAA's Transaction requirements.
HIPAA applies to health plans, healthcare clearinghouses, and to healthcare providers that electronically transmit health information in connection with standard transactions. Health plan generally includes any individual or group plan, private or governmental that provides or pays for medical care. All providers, clearinghouses, and health plans that exchange transactions electronically are required to modify existing or install new information systems to incorporate the data requirements for the new transaction standards, and use the medical and non-medical code sets.
The Regulations apply to health plans, health care clearinghouses and health care providers that transmit health information in electronic form in connection with transactions for which the Secretary of HHS has adopted standards under HIPAA (the covered entities). 
In response to a congressional mandate in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued the regulations Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information. Although the Privacy Rule introduces new rules for the use and disclosure of health information by covered entities, researchers can help to enable their continued access to health data by understanding the Privacy Rule and assisting health care entities covered by the Privacy Rule in meeting its requirements.
Under the Standards for Electronic Transactions and the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information covered entities include health plans, health care clearinghouses, and health care providers that transmit any health information in electronic form in connection with a standard transaction. Subject to certain important exceptions (e.g., uses and disclosures for treatment, payment, or health care operations), the HIPAA regulations require covered entities to obtain a written authorization from individuals before using or disclosing the PHI of that individual.
Many organizations that use, collect, access, and disclose individually identifiable health information will not be covered entities, and thus, will not have to comply with the Privacy Rule. The Privacy Rule does not apply to research; it applies to covered entities, which researchers may or may not be. Covered Entities. Covered entities are defined in the HIPAA rules as (1) health plans, (2) health care clearinghouses, and (3) health care providers who electronically transmit any health information in connection with transactions for which HHS has adopted standards.
HIPAA’S Privacy Rule and Administration Simplification rules apply to all health care plans and providers who transmit health information in electronic form in connection with transactions for which the Secretary of HHS has adopted standards under HIPAA. The Privacy Rule protects all “individually identifiable health information” held or transmitted by a “covered entity” or its business associate, in any form or media, whether electronic, paper, or oral. The Privacy Rule calls this information “protected health information (PHI).”. “Individually identifiable health information” is information, including demographic data, that relates to: 1  the individual’s past, present or future physical or mental health or condition, 2  the provision of health care to the individual, or
For example, hospitals, academic medical centers, physicians, and other health care providers who electronically transmit claims transaction information directly or through an intermediary to a health plan are covered entities. Covered entities can be institutions, organizations, or persons. Covered Entities. Covered entities are defined in the HIPAA rules as (1) health plans, (2) health care clearinghouses, and (3) health care providers who electronically transmit any health information in connection with transactions for which HHS has adopted standards.
3 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 American Association of Medical Assistants Authorization A signed authorization form (see sample) must be obtained for use and disclo-sure of protected health information not included in the consent. Violators of HIPAA may be subjected to fines, prison, or both.HIPAA is organized into three parts:• Privacy regulations. HIPAA regulations guide health care providers with overall privacy measures, such as turning the charts toward the wall and making sure the computer screen is not visible.