GISTs are malignant tumours of soft tissues in the gastro-intestinal tract (the stomach and intestines). They are a kind of sarcoma, which is a very rare type of cancer. Around about 2% of tumours in the gastrointestinal area are GISTs. 1 So, for example, a GIST in or near the colon is not cancer of the colon because it does not occur in the functioning part of the colon but in the tissues which support the colon. ( 2 For reference, the functioning parts of any organ are made up of so-called parenchyal cells)
Other rare types of cancer in the GI tract include leiomyosarcomas (cancers of smooth muscle cells), angiosarcomas (cancers of blood vessel cells), and peripheral nerve sheath tumors (cancers of cells that support and protect nerves). GISTs are different from these other GI tract cancers. It is important to understand that GISTs are not the same as other, more common types of GI tract cancers. Cancers can occur anywhere in the GI tract − from the esophagus to the anus. Usually, these cancers start in glandular cells that line most of the GI tract.
GIST was introduced as a diagnostic term in 1983. Until the late 1990s, many non-epithelial tumors of the gastrointestinal tract were called gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Histopathologists were unable to specifically distinguish between types we now know to be dissimilar molecularly. GISTs are tumors of connective tissue, i.e. sarcomas; unlike most gastrointestinal tumors, they are non epithelial. About 70% occur in the stomach, 20% in the small intestine and less than 10% in the esophagus.
GIST is an abbreviation for GastroIntestinal Stromal Tumour. 1  Gastrointestinal means that it occurs in the digestive tract, anywhere from the oesophagus to the rectum i.e. the gullet, stomach, intestines. 1 So, for example, a GIST in or near the colon is not cancer of the colon because it does not occur in the functioning part of the colon but in the tissues which support the colon. ( 2 For reference, the functioning parts of any organ are made up of so-called parenchyal cells)
GIST is a rare type of sarcoma found in the digestive system, most often in the wall of the stomach. Some GISTS behave in a non cancerous (benign) way. Or they can behave in a cancerous (malignant) way. A specialist tests the cells to confirm the diagnosis of GIST, and to see if the cells have a receptor on their surface called CD117. This CD117 protein is made by a gene called c-kit. A fault in this gene causes the c-kit gene to make too much CD117 protein. Most GISTs have c-kit gene mutations.
Although the generally accepted definition of pediatric GIST is a tumor that is diagnosed at the age of 18 years or younger, pediatric-type GISTs can be seen in adults, which affects risk assessment, the role of lymph node resection, and choice of therapy. GISTs are tumors of connective tissue, i.e. sarcomas; unlike most gastrointestinal tumors, they are non epithelial. About 70% occur in the stomach, 20% in the small intestine and less than 10% in the esophagus.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal neoplasms of the gastrointestinal tract. GISTs arise in the smooth muscle pacemaker interstitial cell of Cajal, or similar cells. They are defined as tumors whose behavior is driven by mutations in the KIT gene (85%), PDGFRA gene (10%), or BRAF kinase (rare). 95% of GISTs stain positively for KIT (CD117). GISTs are tumors of connective tissue, i.e. sarcomas; unlike most gastrointestinal tumors, they are non epithelial. About 70% occur in the stomach, 20% in the small intestine and less than 10% in the esophagus.
Hyperlinked terms are defined in the glossary section of this website. Click the term to see a pop-up definition. Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is a rare cancer affecting the digestive tract or nearby structures within the abdomen. GI stromal tumor, or GIST cancer, is a sarcoma. Because primary GISTs in these locations do not arise directly from the GI tract, they are sometimes called “extragastrointestinal” stromal tumors (Reith et al, 2000). When a GIST grows in a location where it is not encased in the peritoneal membranes, it is said to be retroperitoneal. For example, GISTs attached to some sections of the duodenum are retroperitoneal. Cancer is most threatening when it metastasizes or spreads to additional locations beyond the primary tumor site