Uses of This Medicine. Clonidine injection is used with injected pain medicine to treat pain in cancer patients. Clonidine is to be started under the immediate supervision of your doctor. After your doctor has seen how you respond to clonidine, you may be able to receive this medicine at home. Some medicines can affect how clonidine works. Tell your doctor if you are taking blood pressure medicine, digoxin, fluphenazine, or depression medicine. Tell your doctor if you use anything else that makes you sleepy. Some examples are allergy medicine, narcotic pain medicine, and alcohol.
Clonidine can be used in the treatment of Tourette syndrome (specifically for tics). Clonidine may be used to ease withdrawal symptoms associated with the long-term use of narcotics, alcohol, benzodiazepine and nicotine (smoking). Clonidine is also a mild sedative, and can be used as premedication before surgery or procedures. Its epidural use for pain during heart attack, postoperative and intractable pain has also been studied extensively. Clonidine has also been suggested as a treatment for rare instances of dexmedetomidine withdrawal.
Uses of This Medicine. Clonidine is used alone or together with other medicines to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly. As a result, the blood vessels relax and blood passes through them more easily, which lowers blood pressure. When the blood pressure is lowered, the amount of blood and oxygen going to the heart is increased. This medicine will not cure your high blood pressure, but it does help control it.
The tablet and skin patch forms of clonidine are approved for the treatment of high blood pressure, while the epidural form is licensed to be used in combination with opiates to treat severe cancer pain. Clonidine can be given by an epidural for treating severe cancer pain. It should be used together with opiate medications (such as morphine) and only in people who do not respond adequately to opiates alone. In general, clonidine is more effective for nerve pain, compared to other types of pain.
Clonidine is the generic name of a medication used to treat high blood pressure. Clonidine works by slowing down your heart rate and relaxing blood vessels. You can take clonidine alone or in combination with other medications to lower blood pressure. Clonidine is in a class of medications called centrally acting alpha-agonist hypotensive agents.
Clonidine lowers blood pressure by decreasing the levels of certain chemicals in your blood. This allows your blood vessels to relax and your heart to beat more slowly and easily. Clonidine is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). The Kapvay brand of clonidine is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Clonidine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. If you are being treated for high blood pressure, keep using this medication even if you feel well. High blood pressure often has no symptoms. You may need to use blood pressure medication for the rest of your life. Clonidine may impair your thinking or reactions.
USES: This medication is used alone or with other medications to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Clonidine belongs to a class of drugs (central alpha agonists) that act in the brain to lower blood pressure. 
Catapres (clonidine) is a medication that is used in the treatment of high blood pressure. The most common side effects with clonidine are dry mouth, drowsiness, dizziness, constipation, sedation, low blood pressure, weakness, and nausea. Clonidine works by slowing down your heart rate and relaxing blood vessels. You can take clonidine alone or in combination with other medications to lower blood pressure. Clonidine is in a class of medications called centrally acting alpha-agonist hypotensive agents.
Descriptions. Clonidine is used alone or together with other medicines to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly. 
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved clonidine, like guanfacine, for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), alone or with stimulants in 2010, for pediatric patients aged 6–17 years. Clonidine is also a mild sedative, and can be used as premedication before surgery or procedures. Its epidural use for pain during heart attack, postoperative and intractable pain has also been studied extensively. Clonidine has also been suggested as a treatment for rare instances of dexmedetomidine withdrawal.