Overview. The Maribyrnong River, which begins on the slopes of Mount Macedon and flows to Port Phillip, has played a major role in the occupation and development of western Victoria. Aboriginal tribes have frequented its banks for at least 40,000 years. 
Transcript. The Maribyrnong River begins on the northern slopes of the Macedon Ranges and joins the Yarra near Port Phillip. The word Maribyrnong is said to mean 'Hark I can hear a ringtail possum' but this could be a very old misunderstanding. Originally, white settlers called the Mariyrnong 'Saltwater River'. For 25 years Peter Somerville has been taking passengers up the Maribyrnong River, one of the oldest, most industrial and yet cleanest city rivers in Australia. It winds its way past the home of the Melbourne Cup and the old meatworks and then flows under haemorrhoid bridge.
Maribyrnong River in the suburb Maribyrnong. The Maribyrnong River is a perennial river of the Port Phillip catchment, located in the north–western suburbs of Melbourne, in the Australian state of Victoria. 1  1 Course. The other major tributary of the Maribyrnong is Deep Creek, which also has its headwaters in the northern and eastern parts of the Macedon Ranges. The creek has cut a deep valley through the surrounding basalt plains in its southward course, in particular as it flows through localities such as Konagaderra and Bulla.
Visit Website. The Maribyrnong River, which begins on the slopes of Mount Macedon and flows to Port Phillip, has played a major role in the occupation and development of western Victoria. 
10% is used for urban development – confined to greater Melbourne and larger townships within the catchment. The catchment includes the 160-kilometre Maribyrnong River – the second major river in the Port Phillip and Westernport region – which begins on the southern slopes of the Great Dividing Range, near Lancefield. 
History and Access. Formerly known as Saltwater River, the Maribyrnong River has had a significant impact on the development of Melbourne and was an important meeting place for Aboriginal tribes for at least the last 40,000 years. 