1 Some decorators work for free; they're earning commissions from merchants and may steer you to the highest priced products. 2  Others charge a fixed fee, of $500-$10,000 or more depending on location and reputation. 3  Hourly rates can be $35-$500, again based
The cost of hiring an interior designer varies greatly. Most charge per hour, with the current market rate between $50 and $200 per hour. You would pay this in addition to the cost of furniture, accessories, artwork, etc. Some interior designers charge their clients by marking up the decor they choose.
If the interior decorator charges for his services by the hour, the hourly rate may range between $50 and $200 per hour depending on the square footage of the space and the amount of work needed to complete the job.
Interior Decorators usually cost less than Interior Designers as they are not certified professional designers with a degree and/or education in design. Decorators are not the same as Designers. Decorators will charge between $50 - $85 an hour depending on their location.
This eliminates you paying an unknown amount when all is said and done. The cost of hiring an interior designer varies greatly. Most charge per hour, with the current market rate between $50 and $200 per hour. You would pay this in addition to the cost of furniture, accessories, artwork, etc. Some interior designers charge their clients by marking up the decor they choose.
On average nationally, hiring an interior decorator or designer costs $7,125, with most homeowners spending between $5,544 and $8,706. If you decide to hire a professional for decorating your house, make sure you know the right kind of one that you need.
1 On the other end of the spectrum are premiere interior decorating companies who might charge $400 to $500 per hour or more. 2  Flat fee: some interior design decorators charge a pre-determined rate for certain services.
It depends on the interior decorator or interior designer and yes there is a difference! For newer designers fees usually start around $75 per hour. More established designers charge $100+ per hour depending on expertise and location. Sometimes the designers decided to choose a flat (fixed fee or Cost Plus.