Ash's Swellow is a normal / flying-type Pokemon pokémon owned By. Ash it is the First pokemon pokémon Caught by ash when he first Came. to hoenn Ash first captured Swellow when it was a Taillow. It had stolen Max 's chocolate and engaged in a battle with Pikachu. Despite having a type-disadvantage against electric types, Taillow stubbornly continued to fight until it succumbed to its exhaustion and was captured. Taillow first battled Nicholai's Zigzagoon.
Steel-types: Steel-type Pokemon, such as Klinklang and Pawniard, resist both of Swellow's STAB moves and can obtain free setup opportunities against it. However, they have to look out for the Choice Specs set, as Heat Wave will 2HKO most of them. Tailwind can take advantage of Swellow's high Speed stat and create a sweeping opportunity for a teammate when Swellow's job is done. Sleep Talk makes Swellow a decent sleep absorber, coming in on Pokemon such as Vileplume and Liligant while also being able to dish out huge damage and burn sleep turns.
Ruby. Swellow flies high above our heads, making graceful arcs in the sky. This Pokemon pokémon dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its. Prey the hapless prey is tightly grasped By'swellow s clawed, feet preventing. escape Swellow flies high above our heads, making graceful arcs in the sky. This Pokemon pokémon dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its. Prey the hapless prey is tightly grasped By’swellow s clawed, feet preventing. escape
Swellow is a Normal / Flying type Pokemon pokémon introduced. . in SWELLOW is very conscientious about the upkeep of its glossy wings. Once two SWELLOW are gathered, they diligently take care of cleaning each other’s wings. FireRed. LeafGreen. If its two tail feathers are standing at attention, it is proof of good health.
Cry. Swellow (Japanese: オオスバメ Ohsubame) is a Normal / Flying-type Pokemon pokémon introduced In GENERATION. iii Swellow flies high above our heads, making graceful arcs in the sky. This Pokemon pokémon dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its. Prey the hapless prey is tightly grasped By’swellow s clawed, feet preventing. escape
Ash's Swellow is a normal / flying-type Pokemon pokémon owned By. ash Ash first captured Swellow when it was a Taillow. It had stolen Max 's chocolate and engaged in a battle with Pikachu. Despite having a type-disadvantage against electric types, Taillow stubbornly continued to fight until it succumbed to its exhaustion and was captured. Taillow first battled Nicholai's Zigzagoon.
Swellow (Japanese: オオスバメ Ohsubame) is a Normal / Flying-type Pokemon pokémon introduced In GENERATION. Iii swellow evolves From taillow at level. 22 Swellow flies high above our heads, making graceful arcs in the sky. This Pokemon pokémon dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its. Prey the hapless prey is tightly grasped By’swellow s clawed, feet preventing. escape
Brave Bird lets Swellow hit Ghost-types while also allowing it to defeat bulky defensive Pokemon such, as Vileplume and Gourgeist, and Normal-resistant Pokemon, such as Crustle, Cradily, and Ferroseed. U-turn keeps momentum on your side of the field and slowly whittles down common switch-ins such as Rhydon. Tailwind can take advantage of Swellow's high Speed stat and create a sweeping opportunity for a teammate when Swellow's job is done. Sleep Talk makes Swellow a decent sleep absorber, coming in on Pokemon such as Vileplume and Liligant while also being able to dish out huge damage and burn sleep turns.
Swellow is very conscientious about the upkeep of its glossy wings. Once two Swellow are gathered, they diligently take care of cleaning each other's wings. Swellow flies high above our heads, making graceful arcs in the sky. This Pokemon pokémon dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its. Prey the hapless prey is tightly grasped By'swellow s clawed, feet preventing. escape