GPS Solutions. A radio frequency (RF) signal refers to a wireless electromagnetic signal used as a form of communication, if one is discussing wireless electronics. Radio waves are a form of electromagnetic radiation with identified radio frequencies that range from 3Hz to 300 GHz. Frequency refers to the rate of oscillation (of the radio waves.) RF propagation occurs at the speed of light and does not need a medium like air in order to travel.
To start off, for beginners, RF (Radio Frequency) Communication is the most preferred and low cost solution. All you need is a RF Module (Transmitter-Receiver Pair). Now, that’s not all. RF Communication works on the principle of Serial Communication. Now depending upon the type of application, the RF module is chosen. For short range wireless control applications, an ASK RF Transmitter-Receiver Module of frequency 315 MHz or 433 MHz is most suitable.
P age 2 1.3 Radio Frequency1.4 What is RF Module? An RF Module is a (usually) small electronic circuit used to transmit, receive, or transceive radio waves on one of a number of carrier fre-quencies. W ireless rF M odule u sing PIC C ontroller A n RF module is A smAll electRonic ciRcuit used to tRAnsmit, Receive, oR tRAnsceive RAdio wAves on one oF A numbeR oF cARRieR FRequencies.
R/C Radio Frequency Modules. Find low prices on 13 r/c radio frequency modules .. Futaba is ranked #1 in r/c radio frequency modules, followed by Hitec Rcd and TACTIC. This is a DP16K Data Storage Module for Futaba 3PJS, 3PK & 8UA/UH Radios. Module holds 16k of information, enough space for 8 additional complete models. Will also work on the Futaba 9C radios This module simply plugs into the transmitter.
Wireless RF Module Technology enables a vast edge to any electronics project & provide many consistent advantages, which leads it to today’s up-to-date technology. An RF module is a small electronic circuit used to transmit, receive, or transceive a radio waves on one of a number of carrier frequencies. W ireless rF M odule u sing PIC C ontroller A n RF module is A smAll electRonic ciRcuit used to tRAnsmit, Receive, oR tRAnsceive RAdio wAves on one oF A numbeR oF cARRieR FRequencies.
3 MHz - 30 MHz. 100 m - 10 m. Of the above bands, the most commonly used is by the Navy is HF (High Frequency). This band will be the primary focus of this module. The term High Frequency is somewhat confusing because HF radio waves are actually at a lower frequency than most radio and radar systems.
RF modules are widely used in electronic design owing to the difficulty of designing radio circuitry. Good electronic radio design is notoriously complex because of the sensitivity of radio circuits and the accuracy of components and layouts required to achieve operation on a specific frequency. An RF transmitter module is a small PCB sub-assembly capable of transmitting a radio wave and modulating that wave to carry data. Transmitter modules are usually implemented alongside a micro controller which will provide data to the module which can be transmitted.
Although radio frequency is a rate of oscillation, the term radio frequency or its abbreviation RF are used as a synonym for radio – i.e., to describe the use of wireless communication, as opposed to communication via electric wires. Examples include: 1  Radio-frequency identification. However, since the antenna will pick up thousands of radio signals at a time, a radio tuner is necessary to tune into a particular frequency (or frequency range). This is typically done via a resonator – in its simplest form, a circuit with a capacitor and an inductor form a tuned circuit.
RF Module with ruler for size reference. An RF module (radio frequency module) is a (usually) small electronic device used to transmit and/or receive radio signals between two devices. In an embedded system it is often desirable to communicate with another device wirelessly. An RF transmitter module is a small PCB sub-assembly capable of transmitting a radio wave and modulating that wave to carry data. Transmitter modules are usually implemented alongside a micro controller which will provide data to the module which can be transmitted.