Above all strengths of the Weimar republic were the weaknesses, and one of those weaknesses it possessed was proportional representation. Proportional representation is instead of voting for a single leader or candidate, you vote for a party. The Weimar Constitution had all the ingredients to produce a democracy perfect for a vulnerable Germany to get back in shape. It had a bill of rights giving every German citizen freedom of speech and religion, equality under the law, and all men and women over the age of 20 were given the vote.
Best Answer: Strengths-This is a hard one, it had a constitution (thats always good) and had a fairly stable government. Before the great depression things were looking up for the Weimar Republic. Weaknesses-The government was in general weak and never could accomplish much in economic terms. 
The strengths and weaknesses of the Weimar Republic. The Weimar Republic. This was the first democratic German constitution. A President was elected every seven years by everyone over the age of 18. Power was concentrated in the Reichstag where 550 MPs were elected by Proportional Representation (PR). 
The Weimar Republic faced many problems. Perhaps the greatest danger was 'the weakness within' - the constitution gave the President, the states and the army too much power, whilst proportional voting meant that the Reichstag was divided and weak. 
Article 48 of the Weimar constitution allowed the president to rule by decree at times of an emergency and gave the president the right to override the Reichstag and provide l … eadership above party. Article 48 of the Weimar constitution made provision for rule by decree in an emergency. The inherent defects of weimar constitution were -:   1) Articlas 48 - This gave president all the power like to suspend  civil rights and rule by decree.   2) Propor … tional representation-this made achieving a majority  party an impossible task and led to coalitions.
The Weimar Republic. People use the term Weimar Republic to refer to a period in German history between 1919 and 1933 when the government was a democratic republic governed by a constitution that was laid out in the German city of Weimar after Germany's loss in WW1. Strengths of the constitution It was the first democratic constitution in German history and made sure that all sections of opinion were represented. A strong President ensured that someone was able to take charge in a crisis.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Article 48 was an article in the constitution of the Weimar Republic of Germany (1919–1933) that allowed the Chancellor to rule by decree without the consent of the Reichstag (parliament) although the president still held veto power. Strengths and weaknesses of constitution... Strengths: - All Germans had the right to vote, therefore democratic. - The system of Proportional Representation meant that parliament was directly represented by the percentage of votes casts. - The chancellor's role was overseen by the President (so could be controlled).
The President. The constitution of the Weimar Republic stated that the people would elect the President. The term of the presidency was set at 7 years. The President had a range of powers that need careful analysis when evaluating the strengths and weaknesses of the constitution. 
Assess the strengths and weaknesses of the Weimar Republic In 1918, after Kaiser Wilhelm II was abdicated, Germany changed into a democratic republic with a new constitution. However, after many years of struggling for survival, the Weimar Republic failed and Hitler was appointed chancellor in January 1933. 
The Weimar Republic. After Germany lost the First World War, the Kaiser fled and a new democratic government of Germany was declared in February 1919 at the small town of Weimar. It was too dangerous to make a declaration in Berlin where there had just been a revolt by a Communist group called the Spartacists. The Weimar Republic looked like the perfect democracy, but it had two great weaknesses-proportional representation and Article 48.