Posted by Anonymous & filed under Statistics. If you are thinking of moving to Bagworth or just want to know a what the area is like, the statistics on this page should give you a good introduction. They cover a range of socio-economic factors so you can compare Bagworth to figures for Leicestershire and nationally. These statistics are for the highest level education obtained by the residents of Bagworth and are from the UK Census of 2011. Bagworth has a high level of residents with either no qualifications or qualifications equal to 1 or more GCSE at grade D or below, than the national average.
Coalville is a town in North West Leicestershire, England. It had a population of 4,494 in 2001, and the population of its conurbation was estimated to be around 33,000 in 2003. A well known landmark at the centre of the town is the clock tower, a war memorial in memory of Coalville residents who gave their lives in the 20th century's two world wars: The memorial clock tower was designed by Henry Collings and built by W Moss Ltd in 1925 at a cost of £2,250.
Bagworth Historical Society members have produced three booklets in what is hoped will be part of a longer series. Booklet 1 is called 'July 17th 1832' and is about the opening of Stephenson’s early Bagworth section of the Leicester and Swannington Railway. There were two pits working within the village boundaries of Bagworth. The other pit was named Desford Colliery, which closed in 1984 after running into insurmountable geological problems. When Bagworth pit finally closed in February 1991 (the last pit in Leicestershire) the people of Bagworth had mixed feelings.
These figures on the claiming of benefits in Bagworth come from the Department for Work & Pensions and are dated. They can often be a good indicator of the prosperity of the town and possible indicator of how hard it would be to get employment in the area. These statistics are for the highest level education obtained by the residents of Bagworth and are from the UK Census of 2011. Bagworth has a high level of residents with either no qualifications or qualifications equal to 1 or more GCSE at grade D or below, than the national average.
The area we live and work in is very different from that of years ago. From 1825 - 1991 we had a highly competitive colliery, which in its heyday produced more coal per man-shift than any other pit in Europe. Bagworth colliery is entered in the Guinness Book of Records for its outstanding production per man-shift. There were two pits working within the village boundaries of Bagworth. The other pit was named Desford Colliery, which closed in 1984 after running into insurmountable geological problems. When Bagworth pit finally closed in February 1991 (the last pit in Leicestershire) the people of Bagworth had mixed feelings.
Welcome to Bagworth. This website is for you, the people of Bagworth. Please register to the site to gain full access to all the facilities it can provide. Once you are registered you can post items in to the local postings section such as news and events. Follow us on facebook for all the latest news and course information-Facebook.com/Leicsgolearn. Enrol online at www.leics.gov.uk/golearn or ring our enrolment line 0116 305 0820 or freephone 0800 988 0308. Our team of advisors can offer advice about courses and enrolment fees.
The Psychidae (bagworm moths, also simply bagworms or bagmoths) are a family of the Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths). The bagworm family is fairly small, with about 1350 species described. A few species also consume small arthropods (such as the Camphor Scale Pseudaonidia duplex, a scale insect) . Since bagworm cases are composed of silk and the materials from their habitat, they are naturally camouflaged from predators. Predators include birds and other insects.
The latest news from Bagworth & Thornton Parish Council. Clerk: Ms Ann Murray, Bagworth Community Centre, Station Road, Bagworth, Coalville, LE67 1BJ. Telephone: 07580 574093, Email: clerk@bagworthandthornton.org.uk. 