It’s your practice and your billing rates that you’re charging your clients. A freelance paralegal or paralegal support service has it’s own billing rate. That’s the rate it charges the attorney or law firm for the support provided. That’s the rate the attorney or firm pays to the service provider. What the attorney or law firm recharges to its client(s) is up to the attorney or firm and should be billed at the firm’s own paralegal billing rate. If you’re looking to retain a freelance paralegal or paralegal support service, keep in mind that the paralegal’s billing rate is not your billing rate. This is another mistake I find – mostly with younger solos – as with the situation above.
How Lawyers Charge. Standard payment arrangements an attorney may suggest include hourly rates, flat fees, retainers or contingent fees. Hourly rates are the most common arrangement. Here, the attorney gets paid an agreed-upon hourly rate for the hours he or she works on a client's case or matter until it's resolved. Rates vary significantly, depending on any number of factors, including those listed above. Believe it or not, rates may vary anywhere from $50 an hour to a $1,000 an hour or more. Think of it in terms of how professional athletes are paid: all of them are paid pretty well, but some make millions more than others.
As of 2011, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported a total workforce of 1,760 paralegals within the state of Mississippi. The average salary was $39,080 statewide with the top ten percent earning $18,270 more at $57,350 on average. Paralegals working in the Jackson area were found to be the highest paid with an average of $40,030 and those in the 90th percentile averaging $59,480.
Read More... Paralegals perform legal-, regulatory-and business-related research for lawyers working at their organization. Most of the time, paralegals work for law offices, corporations’ legal departments or courts. These professionals also provide legal support services to attorneys. An associate's degree or certificate in paralegal studies is generally needed in this position; some employers require that paralegals have a bachelor's degree in a relevant field. Previous experience as a paralegal is often required or preferred as well.
Hourly Billing Rates for Attorneys. Most lawyers bill by the hour. Rates vary significantly, depending on any number of factors, including those listed above. Believe it or not, rates may vary anywhere from $50 an hour to a $1,000 an hour or more. Think of it in terms of how professional athletes are paid: all of them are paid pretty well, but some make millions more than others.
According to recent surveys, in 2011, the market rates for paralegals increased or remained the same, ranging from $135 an hour for a Paralegal Clerk up to a median of $245 for Paralegal Managers. 3. Law firms generally tell their paralegals how many hours they are expected to produce and the consequences of not being able to meet that number. Depending on the firm, a paralegal may be expected to generate between 800 and 2,000 billable hours per year. For paralegals close to the 1,800/2,000 billable hours per year threshold, and allowing for vacation time and holidays, this equates to at least 37 billable hours per work week
Professional Paralegal Services standard rate is $35.00 per hour. Standard turnaround time is generally seven days or less. Please call or Email regarding expedited service or special situations. In South Florida (Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach County), I am able to meet you at your office and pick up or deliver if circumstances require a quicker turnaround time.
In the United States, as of May 2012, the median annual salary for a paralegal was US$ 46,990. Paralegals working for the U.S. federal government average around $65,000 per year while state and local government paralegals earn around $45,000 to $50,000. 
Indiana Paralegal Salaries. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a total of 3,720 paralegals were employed in Indiana during 2011. The statewide average salary among them was $39,450, while the top ten percent earned nearly $20,000 more with an average of$ 59,420. The majority of paralegals were found working in the Indianapolis and Carmel areas where those in the 90th percentile averaged $29,740 more than the overall statewide average at $69,190.