Sometimes industrial construction companies are chosen because they offer all of the services that are needed. When “designers” and industrial maintenance contractors are found within a single construction firm, this is called none other than a “design/build” company. And, due to issues of land area and possible environmental hazards, there is often much more government red tape involved in industrial projects, as well. If you’re in need of industrial construction services, whether it be electrical, mechanical, civil, or steel fabrication, don’t hesitate to contact IDS Contractors.
History of Lee Industrial Contracting. Lee Industrial Contracting was established to provide complete solutions for plant renovations, relocations and expansions. Based on integrity, quality, and excellent customer service, our commitment to client satisfaction extends from our top management to crew personnel.
Industrial Contracting & Engineering has the expertise you need to set your next move or installation in motion. Industrial Contracting & Engineering has the expertise you need to set your next move or installation in motion. 
Industrial construction is a lot like residential or commercial construction with regard to how the work is divided up, and how contractors are chosen to work on projects, but as we have seen, there are many ways in which it’s different. And, due to issues of land area and possible environmental hazards, there is often much more government red tape involved in industrial projects, as well. If you’re in need of industrial construction services, whether it be electrical, mechanical, civil, or steel fabrication, don’t hesitate to contact IDS Contractors.
With large industrial construction projects, the government is there to monitor, and ensure that all regulations and guidelines are being met. This usually begins as early as the design stage of the project. And, due to issues of land area and possible environmental hazards, there is often much more government red tape involved in industrial projects, as well. If you’re in need of industrial construction services, whether it be electrical, mechanical, civil, or steel fabrication, don’t hesitate to contact IDS Contractors.
Lee Industrial Contracting’s Quality Guarantee: “Lee Industrial Contracting was founded with the hope of creating a company that would take on plant projects in their entirety. With each job, we link talented people and project management strategies with proven processes and the best equipment available. Lee Industrial Contracting was established to provide complete solutions for plant renovations, relocations and expansions. Based on integrity, quality, and excellent customer service, our commitment to client satisfaction extends from our top management to crew personnel.
a branch of construction in the USSR that provides the fixed capital stock for industry. The task of industrial construction is to carry out all construction and installation work for new enterprises and put the plants in operation and to provide for the expansion and modernization of existing enterprises. As a result of industrial construction in the Soviet period, the volume of gross industrial production in 1974 is 122 times greater than that of 1913.
BBB Accreditation. Coastal Industrial Contracting of Louisiana, LLC is not BBB Accredited. Businesses are under no obligation to seek BBB accreditation, and some businesses are not accredited because they have not sought BBB accreditation. There is no known industry standard for the number of complaints a business can expect. The volume of business and number of transactions may have a bearing on the number of complaints received by BBB. *Coastal Industrial Contracting of Louisiana, LLC is in this range.
PB Industrial Contracting is a general contractor specializing in commercial construction. Founded in Mentor over four decades ago, we take pride in meeting and exceeding the needs of our clients. 
About Us. Lee Industrial Contracting’s experience spans a wide array of project types including machine moving, foundations, electrical, pipefitting, fabrication, controls/robotics and HVAC. We don’t specialize in one particular trade, but rather in Turn-Key solutions that are the logical choice for industrial projects. Lee Industrial Contracting was established to provide complete solutions for plant renovations, relocations and expansions. Based on integrity, quality, and excellent customer service, our commitment to client satisfaction extends from our top management to crew personnel.