Tropical Traditions Expeller-Pressed Coconut Oil, non-certified, is a 100% pure coconut oil made from high quality coconuts in the Philippines. This is the “common” type oil that millions of people in Asia consume on a daily basis. This oil is processed the “old” way by what is called “physical refining.” The modern way of processing coconut oil is by chemical extraction, using solvent extracts, which produces higher yields and is quicker and less expensive. Tropical Traditions Expeller-Pressed Coconut Oil DOES NOT use solvent extracts.
Use a teaspoon of cold-pressed oil if you need to add fat to a smoothie and want a mild coconut flavor. Expeller-pressed is a good choice for baking when you want to add a nutty, toasted flavor. Use a tablespoon of coconut oil in your curries, and a teaspoon in your stir-fries to add a delicate coconut flavor. Processing Methods. Cold-pressed coconut oil is made in a heat-controlled environment and processed at temperatures that never exceed 120 degrees, according to Coconut Oil for Beginners by Rockridge Press. This results in a high-quality oil
For example, let’s say you decided you want an expeller-pressed, refined coconut oil. You can find a good quality one that’s been refined using a natural, chemical-free cleaning process and and a relatively low-temperature extraction. In general, the more heat the oil was exposed to, the more strong the coconut flavor. (In the past, I’ve bought some extra-virgin, expeller-pressed coconut oil that tasted “toasted” for lack of a better word.) So a truly raw, unrefined, virgin coconut oil will have a very mild coconut flavor and scent.
Expeller pressing (also called oil pressing) is a mechanical method for extracting oil from raw materials. The raw materials are squeezed under high pressure in a single step. When used for the extraction of food oils, typical raw materials are nuts, seeds and algae, which are supplied to the press in a continuous feed. 
Tropical Traditions Expeller-Pressed Coconut Oil is a high quality refined coconut oil. This oil is processed the “old” way by what is called “physical refining.” The modern way of processing coconut oil is by chemical extraction, using solvent extracts, which produces higher yields and is quicker and less expensive. Tropical Traditions Expeller-Pressed Coconut Oil DOES NOT use solvent extracts.
For this reason, it is considered good quality coconut oil. Expeller-pressed or cold-pressed coconut oil goes through less processing, if any. As a result, it still contains most of the phytonutrients naturally found in the raw, unprocessed oil. This includes antioxidants and phytosterols which counteract oxidation (spoilage) and excessive free-radical formation. Using mechanical pressure and low temperatures, expeller pressed coconut oil is extracted from fresh coconuts and/or good-quality dried whole coconut or copra. Chemicals or additives have no place in its production.
It is a very good quality food-grade coconut oil. Tropical Traditions Organic Expeller-Pressed Coconut Oil is made from certified organic coconuts that have NOT been treated with chemicals or fertilizers. It is certified organic according to European and USDA standards. This oil is processed the “old” way by what is called “physical refining.” The modern way of processing coconut oil is by chemical extraction, using solvent extracts, which produces higher yields and is quicker and less expensive. Tropical Traditions Expeller-Pressed Coconut Oil DOES NOT use solvent extracts.
(European coconut oil labels saying cold pressed are referring to unrefined expeller pressed oils.) This oil (the refined type) is not the purest possible for coconut oil and carries traces of the chemicals used in extraction. 
Expeller pressed oil is any sort of oil that has been extracted from nuts, seeds, or other sources through a mechanical process that relies on sheer force rather than chemicals. In more ancient times, oil expulsion was done by hand, often with mallets or crank-style apparatuses. 