To have a flamboyant personality is to be flashy, bright, colorful, unique or different, usually on purpose. Flamboyant is occasionally used to describe soneone so wrapped u … p in their uniqueness that it has reached the point of vanity. 
1. strikingly bold or brilliant; showy: flamboyant clothes. 2. extravagantly dashing and colorful: flamboyant behavior. 3. florid; ornate; elaborately styled. 4. (often cap. ). a. (in architecture) having the flamelike form of an ogee, as tracery. 2. showy, rich, elaborate, over the top (informal), extravagant, baroque, ornate, ostentatious, rococo flamboyant architectural paint effects. 3. colourful, striking, exciting, brilliant, glamorous, stylish, dazzling, glitzy (slang), showy, florid He wears flamboyant clothes. adjective.
1. elaborate or extravagant; florid; showy. 2. rich or brilliant in colour; resplendent. 3. exuberant or ostentatious. 4. of, denoting, or relating to the French Gothic style of architecture characterized by flamelike tracery and elaborate carving. ---------. Of course only the 3rd meaning can be applied to person. 
n. 4 another name for → royal poinciana. (C19: from French: flaming, from flamboyer to flame). ♦ flamboyance, flamboyancy n. ♦ flamboyantly adv. English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: flamboyant, flamboyantly, flamboyancy, flamboyance. Add your entry in the Collaborative Dictionary. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of flamboyant is someone or something that is extravagant or looks flame-like in color or form. 1  An example of flamboyant is a drag queen. 2  An example of flamboyant are arches in French gothic cathedrals that are flame-like. 
- Refer a Friend. flamboyant (adj) (of behavior, dress, etc.) confident and different from others; (of clothes, designs, etc.) noticeable, bright, and too colorful. A flamboyant person attracts other's attention by behaving in a different way from the normal. A person has a flamboyant style if his style, rather unusual, attracts the attention of others. A flamboyant gesture is a movement of your head and hand to attract other's attention
1. camp (informal), dashing, theatrical, swashbuckling He was a flamboyant personality. 2. showy, rich, elaborate, over the top (informal), extravagant, baroque, ornate, ostentatious, rococo flamboyant architectural paint effects. 3. colourful, striking, exciting, brilliant, glamorous, stylish, dazzling, glitzy (slang), showy, florid He wears flamboyant clothes. adjective.