Light is a stimulus that plants respond to. This is called phototropism (photo= light). Plants usually display a positive phototropic response to light, which means they grow toward a light source. Plant hormones called auxins play a part in phototropism. Auxin is a plant growth hormone. When light is shined on one side of a plant the auxins move to the dark side of the plant. The hormones stimulate the cells on the dark side of the plant to elongate, while the cells on the light side of the plant remain the same. 
Auxin distribution controls phototropism. 1. This is a normal plant that has the sun positioned almost directly over the plant. During this time, the auxin (pink dots) that lies within the plant is evenly distributed. 2. The sun is now positioned at an angle to the plant. It is most often observed in plants, but can also occur in other organisms such as fungi. The cells on the plant that are farthest from the light have a chemical called auxin that reacts when phototropism occurs. This causes the plant to have elongated cells on the farthest side from the light.
Phototropism. Phototropism is a plant's growth response to light. Plants need light to grow. Usually, plant shoots and stems exhibit a positive reaction to light (they grow towards the light source). The ability to grow towards sunlight gives the plants an evolutionary advantage. Studies have shown that plant hormones of the class of auxins play a key role in this directed growth process. Auxin is released into the cells on the plants shady side. There, the hormone stimulates the cell walls to elongate. Also, growth is inhibited on the plant's sunny side.
Tropisms. 1  Positive = the plant, or a part of it, grows in the direction from which the stimulus originates. 2  Negative = growth away from the stimulus. 3  Light = phototropism. 4  Stems are positively phototropic. 5  Roots are negatively phototropic. 6  Gravity = gravitropism. 7  Stems are negatively gravitropic while. 
Phototropism is the growth of organisms in response to a light stimulus. It is most often observed in plants, but can also occur in other organisms such as fungi. The cells on the plant that are farthest from the light have a chemical called auxin that reacts when phototropism occurs. This causes the plant to have elongated cells on the farthest side from the light.
Phototropism (pronounced foe-TA-tro-piz-em) is the growth of a plant in the direction of its light source. Plants are very sensitive to their environment and have evolved many forms of tropisms in order to ensure their survival. A tropism is the growth of a plant as a response to a stimulus, and phototropism occurs when a plant responds to light by bending in the direction of the light.
There are different types of tropisms: Positive phototropism in plant stems. 1  Tropism – growth in response to a stimulus. 2  Positive tropism – towards the stimulus. 3  Negative tropism – away from the stimulus. 4  Phototropism – growth in response to the direction of light. 
Phototropism is one of the many plant tropisms or movements which respond to external stimuli. Growth towards a light source is called positive phototropism, while growth away from light is called negative phototropism. It is most often observed in plants, but can also occur in other organisms such as fungi. The cells on the plant that are farthest from the light have a chemical called auxin that reacts when phototropism occurs. This causes the plant to have elongated cells on the farthest side from the light.
Tropisms are growthg responses in plants in which the direction of growth depends on the direction of the stimulus. Phototropism is the response to light. The shoots of plants … are positively phototropic (grow towards the light) while the roots are negatively phototropic (grow away from light). 