Step 4 - You will receive notification, generally within 30 days, if your application for a Concealed Weapons Permit has been approved or denied. If you are denied, you can review the appeals process below if you want to appeal the board's decision. To renew your CCW Permit every two years: 7/11/13 - Attention all CCW Permit holders: 1  Effective immediately there is a new DOJ Application for Renewal and New Applicants. 2  Please confirm that you have the most current application for your appointment (State of CA BOF 4012 REV 11/20/12).
(CWP Renewal and Replacement) A concealed weapons permit may not be suspended by a state official, agent, or employee supported by state funds if the permit holder has initiated a renewal or replacement application and the processing and issuance of a renewal or replacement permit is delayed for administrative reasons. The applications are processed in the order in which they are received, starting from the date SLED actually receives the application. Processing is taking the full ninety days on both new and renewals.
I certify that all above statements for this on-line application are correct. I understand that any false information attested to is reason for denial to my request for permit renewal and constitutes a crime of perjury, punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 and imprisonment for up to six months, or both. The applications are processed in the order in which they are received, starting from the date SLED actually receives the application. Processing is taking the full ninety days on both new and renewals.
Submit: A completed CWP Application, Two completed fingerprint cards, A copy of the Instructor/Student Checklist or Training Certificate, A copy of a Driver’s License with current address, A Certified Check, Cashiers Check, or Money Order in the amount of $50. made payable to: SLED. This is a question for an attorney to answer but I can tell you that I have had former students with a DUI, shop lifting, or bad check charges in their past who were able to get a CWP. The best thing to do is to get your record expunged so there are no charges on your record.
 CWP training courses must have been completed within three years of filing the application.  Training date, instructor certification number, and student number must be entered onto the application.  You must submit a signed copy of the SLED CWP Instructor/Student Checklist with your application. CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION BY APPLICANT:  I am eligible for a South Carolina Concealed Weapon Permit pursuant to Sections 23-31-210/215 of the S.C. Code of Laws. 
*Below is a temporary change in the concealed weapons permit law enacted during the 2013 legislative session. Temporary provisos are enacted in the State budget and are only effective for the State fiscal year (July 1 - June 30); unless re-enacted they expire on June 30, 2014. 62.22. The applications are processed in the order in which they are received, starting from the date SLED actually receives the application. Processing is taking the full ninety days on both new and renewals.
Renewing Your CWP. Concealed Weapons Permits (CWP) are good for five years then must be renewed. CWPs expire at mid-night on the expiration date shown on the permit. It is unlawful to carry a concealed weapon after the expiration of the permit. CWP holders may renew their permits online but not more than 90 days prior to their expiration date or more than 60 days after their expiration date. Renew Online. 
Top of Page ». What if my permit expires, may I still renew? You may be processed as a renewal between 90 days prior to expiration and 60 days after expiration. If your permit is expired more than 60 days, and you still want to possess a concealed-weapons permit, you must apply for a new permit. You may use your expired permit card as proof you have attended the firearms-safety training, if it is in good standing. See additional information under obtaining a permit.
Wyoming Statute § 6-8-104(e) in pertinent part provides that a nonrefundable permit fee of $50.00 if not previously issued (new) or a nonrefundable permit fee of $50.00 for renewal of a permit. A new permit application must also include $24 for fingerprint processing fees charged by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 