Flint Hills Resources owns and operates the world’s largest propane dehydrogenation (“PDH”) facility, based on production capacity, strategically located on the Houston Ship Channel with direct and indirect access to approximately 1/2 of U.S. propylene consumption. 
Already, the owner of the sole PDH plant in the US, PetroLogistics, is providing Praxair at least 93% of the hydrogen that it produces at its 1.45bn lb/year (658,000 tonnes/year) plant, according to the company's registration statement. The economics for these PDH plants will receive little help from hydrogen sales − regardless of what happens to US demand for the gas. That is because PDH plants derive most of their revenue from propylene sales.
Tags. CALGARY — Energy infrastructure company Williams is building a propane dehydrogenation (PDH) facility in Alberta that will increase the Canadian operation’s production of polymer-grade propylene. Williams is the only company in Canada currently producing the petrochemical feedstock used in plastics manufacturing. The new facility, the first and only one in Canada, will be located close to its Redwater fractionation plant and will initially produce up to 1.1 billion pounds (500 kilotonnes) of polymer-grade propylene annually, but could double capacity with future expansion.
Sanyuan's PDH plant is currently operating at 60% of capacity, according to sources. The three other PDH plants in operation are currently running at a maximum of 80% and low cracking margins may well keep them below that level. The startup of two more propane dehydrogenation plants in China by mid-2015, coming on the heels of the four facilities that have begun operations over the past year, will exacerbate Asia's propylene glut and likely force the newcomers to curb output to defend their margins, according to industry sources.
C3 Petrochemicals LLC plans to build a propane dehydrogenation (PDH) plant near Alvin, Texas, to produce polymer-grade propylene and chemical-grade propylene, according to an air quality permit application the company filed with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
“In the US, there are a lot of announced PDH plants that are still questionable,” said Craig Barry, Dow’s business director for olefins in the US and Europe. He made his comments on the sidelines of the 48th annual European Petrochemical Association (EPCA) meeting. Barry’s belief that only three to four PDH plants will be built in the near term correlates to his doubts over talk about the US propylene market being long in the future. “I’m one of the sceptics of that,” he said. The EPCA meeting runs 5-7 October in Vienna. The following lists the announced PDH plants:
HOUSTON (ICIS)--The wave of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) plants proposed for the US will create a new source of hydrogen for refineries, helping them meet stricter sulphur regulations. While PDH plants are intended to produce propylene, they still produce hydrogen gas as a byproduct. The economics for these PDH plants will receive little help from hydrogen sales − regardless of what happens to US demand for the gas. That is because PDH plants derive most of their revenue from propylene sales.
In total, the six new PDH plants will be able to produce 3.51 million mt/year of propylene. Yantai Wanhua Polyurethanes is set to start up China's single-biggest PDH plant, located in Shandong province, next January or February, according to a source familiar with the matter. Article continues below... The startup of two more propane dehydrogenation plants in China by mid-2015, coming on the heels of the four facilities that have begun operations over the past year, will exacerbate Asia's propylene glut and likely force the newcomers to curb output to defend their margins, according to industry sources.
Starting at the end of 2015 six new North American propane dehydrogenation (PDH) plants are expected to come online. These new plants will have the capacity to convert up to 170 Mb/d of propane into much more valuable propylene. 