Another less common meaning is the political support for the State of Israel by non-Jews. Advocates of Zionism view it as a national liberation movement for the repatriation of a persecuted people residing as minorities in a variety of nations, to the homeland to which they had a historical connection. The primary goals of Zionism until 1948, were the re-establishment of Jewish sovereignty in the Land of Israel ( Eretz Israel  in Hebrew), ingathering of the exiles, and liberation of Jews from the antisemitic discrimination and persecution that occurred in their diaspora.
Christian Zionism is a belief among some Christians that the return of the Jews to the Holy Land, and the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, is in accordance with Biblical prophecy. Some Christian Zionists believe that the gathering of the Jews in Israel is a prerequisite for the Second Coming of Jesus.
What Zionists believe. Zionists believe that the Jews are a people and deserve a country of their own. Zionists believe in Zionism, the national liberation movement of the Jewish people. Zionism is not against anyone and it is not racist. Zionism implements the right of self determination of the Jewish people.
Zionism is a movement founded by Theodor Herzl in 1896 whose goal is the return of Jews to Eretz Yisrael, or Zion, the Jewish synonym for Jerusalem and the Land of Israel. The name of Zionism comes from the hill Zion, the hill on which the Temple of Jerusalem was situated. Supporters of this movement are called Zionists. Today there is much confusion among Jews over the meaning of the term Zionism. It means different things to different people. The reason for this is that historically, Zionism has been a movement dominated by secularist Jews.
1 Zionism can be described as a yearning to make Israel a homeland for Jews. 2  Zionism can be described as a peaceful nationalistic movement. 3  It is the desire of Jews to peacefully live in their ancestral lands. 4  The term Zionism refers to a national movement for the return of the Jewish people to their homeland. 1 Zionism = belief that Israel has the right to EXIST, which is\\nno different to the belief that the 22 Muslim nations have a right\\nto exist. 2  Zionism is basically the hope and wish of the Jews to return to\\ntheir homeland-The land of Israel.
A religious variety of Zionism supports Jews upholding their Jewish identity defined as adherence to religious Judaism, opposes the assimilation of Jews into other societies, and has advocated the return of Jews to Israel as a means for Jews to be a majority nation in their own state. The primary goals of Zionism until 1948, were the re-establishment of Jewish sovereignty in the Land of Israel ( Eretz Israel  in Hebrew), ingathering of the exiles, and liberation of Jews from the antisemitic discrimination and persecution that occurred in their diaspora.
1. Zionism as an ideology-Zionist ideology holds that the Jews are a people or nation like any other, and should gather together in a single homeland. Zionism was self-consciously the Jewish analogue of Italian and German national liberation movements of the nineteenth century. Zionism is a political movement that includes many shades of opinion. Different factions of the Zionist movement and different commentators have offered different definitions of Zionism that suit their purposes and outlook. Not all of them are historically or ideologically accurate as generalizations
What Zionists believe Zionists believe that the Jews are a people and deserve a country of their own. Zionists believe in Zionism, the national liberation movement of the Jewish people. Zionism is not against anyone and it is not racist. Zionism implements the right of self determination of the Jewish people.