Argentine Beef. When someone thinks about the food in Argentina, beef is always the first thing to come to mind. Argentine´s claim it is the best in the world, and so do many foreigners.
Argentina has long been famous for its grilled beef. But that beef isn't what it was. When I think of Argentina, I think of beef from cows that graze on the endless pampas, tended by watchful gauchos. That grass-fed beef has been the centerpiece of Argentina's most famous dish, a slow-cooked asado on the parilla.
However, I´m not an expert on the process of Argentine beef, but somehow, they have beef with lots of marbling, and it is very very tender. Some rib eye and filet mignon steaks here practically dissolve in your mouth, and have a delicious buttery flavor!
You will find that Argentine beef is definitely a little different than beef in other parts of the world. First of all, in most parts of the world, the cattle tend to be grain fed. Here in Argentina, they have lots of space and the cattle is generally grass fed.
The Economy Surrounding Argentine Beef Exports to the United States. Under the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Argentina is guaranteed a quota of 20,000 metric tons of beef, provided the meat passes U.S. Department of Agriculture standards for disease.
Beef is the national dish of Argentina. There are huge cattle ranches in Argentina, and the gaucho, or Argentine cowboy, is a well-known symbol of Argentine individualism. Many dishes contain meat, but prepared in different ways. A favorite main course is parrillada, a mixed grill of steak and other cuts of beef.
It is estimated today that Argentina is one of the largest consumers of beef in the world, second only to the United States. However, Argentina only has a population of 33 million people, while the United States has 230 Million people.
Since 2002, Argentine exports of beef have risen steadily. This is due in part to an increasing demand for animal protein, coupled with the country’s increased competitivity following the devaluation of the peso that year. In 2005, Argentina was the world’s third largest beef exporter.
This permission by the United States to bring in fresh beef from Argentina is almost certain to start a trend of permissions from around the world for fresh Argentine beef, as many countries have the same agricultural standards for this sector of products as does the United States.