DEFINITION of 'Annuity'. An annuity is a contractual financial product sold by financial institutions that is designed to accept and grow funds from an individual and then, upon annuitization, pay out a stream of payments to the individual at a later point in time. Annuities can be structured generally as either fixed or variable. Fixed annuities provide regular periodic payments to the annuitant. Variable annuities allow the owner to receive greater future cash flows if investments of the annuity fund do well and smaller payments if its investments do poorly.
By definition, an annuity income rider is an attached benefit to a deferred annuity policy that solves for longevity risk by providing a lifetime income stream. On the right hand side of the ledger is the income rider benefit that is a transfer of risk to the annuity company to pay you a lifetime income stream that starts at your discretion.
A common use for an immediate annuity might be to provide a pension income. In the U.S., the tax treatment of a non-qualified immediate annuity is that every payment is a combination of a return of principal (which part is not taxed) and income (which is taxed at ordinary income rates, not capital gain rates).
Conventional annuity contracts provide a predictable, guaranteed stream of future income (e.g., for retirement) until the death(s) of the beneficiaries(s) named in the contract, or, until a future termination date — whichever occurs first. In the U.S., the tax treatment of a non-qualified immediate annuity is that every payment is a combination of a return of principal (which part is not taxed) and income (which is taxed at ordinary income rates, not capital gain rates).
Annuities. An annuity is a contract between you and an insurance company that is designed to meet retirement and other long-range goals, under which you make a lump-sum payment or series of payments. In return, the insurer agrees to make periodic payments to you beginning immediately or at some future date
An income annuity is typically purchased with a lump sum payment, often by people who are at or near retirement. Also known as an immediate annuity. BREAKING DOWN 'Income Annuity'. Investors seeking income annuities should have clear picture of how much income will be received and for how long. Most annuities pay out until the death of the annuitant and some pay out until the death of spouse.
DEFINITION of 'Income Annuity'. Annuities designed to start paying income as soon as the policy is initiated. The income annuity is annuitized immediately, although the underlying income units may be in either fixed or variable investments. As such, the income payments may fluctuate over time. BREAKING DOWN 'Income Annuity'. Investors seeking income annuities should have clear picture of how much income will be received and for how long. Most annuities pay out until the death of the annuitant and some pay out until the death of spouse.
In the United States of America, an annuity is a contractually executed, relatively low-risk investment product, where the insured (usually, an individual) pays a life insurance company a lump-sum premium at the start of the contract. In the U.S., the tax treatment of a non-qualified immediate annuity is that every payment is a combination of a return of principal (which part is not taxed) and income (which is taxed at ordinary income rates, not capital gain rates).
In a fixed annuity, you have the option to make either a lump sum contribution or a series of contributions to the contract, which in turn will pay a guaranteed rate of interest for a set period of time. European governments funded most of the wars of the 17th and 18th centuries with annuity contributions. In the United States, fixed annuities appeared in the 18th century as a way to support church pastors.