Katla is about 30 km in diameter with a crater of 10 km in diameter. The volcano´s highest part reaches 1512 m above sea level. Within Katla caldera, situated beneath the centre of Myrdalsjokull, the ice is hundreds of metres thick. From the time when Iceland was settled in the ninth century, Katla has erupted on average every 60 years. Through the ages many farms have been swept away by Katla eruptions, with that of 1311 being recorded as particularly damaging.
Iceland's Katla is one of the world's most powerful volcanoes. The home of the Katla volcano is Mýrdalsjoekull (Mýrdalsjökull) myrdalsjokull, glacier the southernmost glacier In, iceland almost 600 km2, large and the 4th biggest glacier In. Iceland´myrdalsjokull s ice cap hides The katla. caldera From the time when Iceland was settled in the ninth century, Katla has erupted on average every 60 years. Through the ages many farms have been swept away by Katla eruptions, with that of 1311 being recorded as particularly damaging.
Several types of volcanic eruptions —during which lava, tephra (ash, lapilli, volcanic bombs and blocks), and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure —have been distinguished by volcanologists. These are often named after famous volcanoes where that type of behavior has been observed. 1 The strongest types of eruptions, with a VEI of 8, are so-called Ultra-Plinian eruptions, such as the most recent one at Lake Toba 74 thousand years ago, which put out 2800 times the material erupted by Mount St. Helens in 1980.
They typically produce plumes of volcanic ash, formed by the interaction of the erupting magma with the ice. However, the Katla volcanic system was the source of one of the largest known flood basalt eruptions in Iceland, the Eldgja eldgjá eruption OF ad–934. 940 View across the lava flows produced from the 2010 Eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull eruption towards The mýrdalsjoekull mýrdalsjökull ice Cap. And Katla the; mýrdalssandur floodplain the coastline was extended by 5 km after the last major eruption. in 1918
Katla is one of the largest volcanoes in Iceland. It is situated to the north of Vik vík I í mýrdal and to the east of the Smaller. Glacier eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull 1,512 peak (4,961 1512) metres 4961 ft and is partially Covered by. The mýrdalsjoekull mýrdalsjökull glacier the system has an area (of 595 km). 2 230 sq mi It is thought that Katla is the source of Vedde Ash, more than 6 to 7 cubic kilometers (1.4 to 1.7 cu mi) of tephra dated to 10,600 years BP found at a number of sites including Vedde in Denmark, Norway, Scotland and North Atlantic cores.
Lava. Lava is molten rock erupted at the ground surface. When molten rock is beneath the ground, it is called magma. 1  Lava flows are the effusive (non-explosive) outpourings of lava, and usually flow slower than walking pace. 2  Lava flow types include a’a, blocky and pahoehoe.
Most eruptions in Iceland are a mix of both types, the ash and tephra usually erupted in the earlier stage of the eruption, which is often explosive and gassy, while lava issues in the later, calmer stages. Graenavatn grænavatn On reykjanes and the tephra Crater hverfjall At mývatn are examples of craters from explosive. activity 
The home of the Katla volcano is Mýrdalsjoekull (Mýrdalsjökull) myrdalsjokull, glacier the southernmost glacier In, iceland almost 600 km2, large and the 4th biggest glacier In. Iceland´myrdalsjokull s ice cap hides The katla. Caldera katla erupted very powerfully in 1918 but there has been evidence of smaller eruptions since. then From the time when Iceland was settled in the ninth century, Katla has erupted on average every 60 years. Through the ages many farms have been swept away by Katla eruptions, with that of 1311 being recorded as particularly damaging.
The most common type of volcanic eruption occurs when magma (the term for lava when it is below the Earth's surface) is released from a volcanic vent. Eruptions can be effusive, where lava flows like a thick, sticky liquid, or explosive, where fragmented lava explodes out of a vent. Here are some of the most common types of eruptions: In a Hawaiian eruption, fluid basaltic lava is thrown into the air in jets from a vent or line of vents (a fissure) at the summit or on the flank of a volcano. The jets can last for hours or even days, a phenomenon known as fire fountaining.
A Plinian eruption is the most explosive of the eruption types. Mt. St. Helens eruption was a plinian eruption. Plinian eruptions are characterized by a very high ash cloud that rise upwards to 50,000 feet (almost 10 miles) high. Very deadly pyroclastic flows are also part of plinian eruptions. Strombolian eruptions usually produce little or no lava. Because of this the cones that are produced by this type of eruption is a very steep sided cone called a cinder cone. The photo shows a strombolian eruption taking place from a cinder cone. Cinder cones get their name from the material that forms them, cinders.