4,296 pages on this wiki. A cantina is a social gathering point in the Star Wars universe. It is a place where people, often Smugglers, Bounty Hunters and other criminals congregate. There is often live entertainment, such as musicians or dancers
Exterior of the Cantina, at Ajim, Tunisia. The Chalmun's Cantina (often called the Mos Eisley Cantina or the Star Wars Cantina) is a fictional bar (cantina) of the Star Wars universe located in the pirate city of Mos Eisley on the planet Tatooine. The cantina scene is referenced in the movie Team America: World Police where the protagonists are at a bar in Cairo, Egypt, looking for terrorists. The music played in this scene is a blend of stereotypically Middle Eastern music and the music played during the original cantina scene in A New Hope.
Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina had two bartenders; Wuher, who worked the day shift, and Ackmena, who worked at night. A serving staff of waiters and waitresses was often employed as well, and the bartender sometimes had an assistant or barmaid. A cantina was a place where spacers, smugglers, and other denizens of the nearby area came to drink and play various board and card games, such as pazaak or sabacc.
Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina, also known as Chalmun's, Chalmun's Cantina, double-c / ceecee by the city militia, the Mos Eisley Cantina or simply The Cantina, was a popular drinking and dining establishment located in the city of Mos Eisley on the desert world of Tatooine. Chalmun's Cantina was the same cantina in The Star Wars Holiday Special, set months after ANH, and shown during a night shift. It is possible that the Episode I podracer, Gasgano, was one of the individuals present around the time of Luke Skywalker's meeting with Han Solo.
Cantina. A cantina is a type of bar popular in Italy, Mexico and Spain. The word is similar in etymology to canteen, and is derived from the Italian word for a cellar, winery, or vault. In Italy the cantina may also be used to store meat products such as salami. The term cantina entered the French language circa 1710 as cantine. It was used originally to refer to the shop of a sutler.
Definition of CANTINA. 1. Southwest: a pouch or bag at the pommel of a saddle. 2. Southwest: a small barroom: saloon. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A cantina is a type of bar popular in Italy, Mexico and Spain. The word is similar in etymology to  canteen , and is derived from the Italian word for a cellar, winery, or vault. In Italy the cantina may also be used to store meat products such as salami. In Spain, a cantina is a bar located in a train station or any establishment located at or near a workplace where food and drinks are served. Cantina was one of the foreign words that entered in from Renaissance Italy. During the 16th century, the Spanish Empire included large holdings in Italy