Deep tenderness at McBurney's point, known as McBurney's sign, is a sign of acute appendicitis. The clinical sign of referred pain in the epigastrium when pressure is applied is also known as Aaron's sign. Tenderness at McBurney's point suggests the evolution of acute appendicitis to a later stage, and thus, the increased likelihood of rupture. Other abdominal processes can also sometimes cause tenderness at McBurney's point.
McBurney's point is the name given to the point over the right side of the abdomen that is one-third of the distance from the anterior superior iliac spine to the umbilicus (navel). This point roughly corresponds to the most common location of the base of the appendix where it is attached to the cecum. Tenderness at McBurney's point suggests the evolution of acute appendicitis to a later stage, and thus, the increased likelihood of rupture. Other abdominal processes can also sometimes cause tenderness at McBurney's point.
McBurney's Point refers to a particular area of the abdomen. Identified by Dr. Charles Heber McBurney more than 100 years ago, the point represents the exact area where pain can occur in appendicitis if a doctor presses one finger on the spot. While McBurney's Point may not necessarily indicate the location of a patient's appendix, pain in that vicinity, along with other biological signs, can be a useful medical tool. These symptoms may include an abnormally high white blood cell concentration, vomiting or diarrhea.
McBurney's point is located midway between the anterior iliac crest and the umbilicus in the right lower quadrant. From Ignatavicius and Workman, 2002. melting point (mp) the minimum temperature at which a solid begins to liquefy; see also freezing point. McBurney point a point of special tenderness in appendicitis, about 4 to 5 cm from the right anterior iliac spine on a line between the spine and the navel; it corresponds to the normal position of the appendix.
McBurney point-a point where pressure elicits tenderness in acute appendicitis. McBurney retractor. McBurney sign-tenderness at site two-thirds of the distance between the umbilicus and the anterior-superior iliac spine seen in appendicitis. McBurney point a point of special tenderness in appendicitis, about 4 to 5 cm from the right anterior iliac spine on a line between the spine and the navel; it corresponds to the normal position of the appendix.
McBurney's point: McBurney's point is the most tender area of the abdomen of patients in the early stage of appendicitis. McBurney's point is named after the 19th-century New York surgeon Charles McBurney (1845-1913) who was the leading authority in his day on the diagnosis and treatment of appendicitis. 
Overview. McBurney's point is the name given to the point over the right side of the human abdomen that is one-third of the distance from the ASIS (anterior superior iliac spine) to the umbilicus. This point roughly corresponds to the most common location of the base of the appendix where it is attached to the cecum. 
Please try again later. This video will show how to find McBurney's point and where the anatomic location of the appendix is on a normal human body. 1  Education. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
McBurney's point is defined as a point that lies one-third of distance laterally on a line drawn from the umbilicus to the right anterior superior iliac spine. Classically, it corresponds to the location of the base of the appendix [ref needed] . 
McBurney's point. Physical exam The point on the right lower flank, midway between the anterosuperior iliac spine and belly button, that corresponds to the appendix; finger pressure on MP elicits a major pain response– Dang!, that HURTS –from Pts with acute appendicitis. See Appendicitis