Paralegal Salary in Seattle. (United States). The average pay for a Paralegal in Seattle, Washington is $50,628 per year. A skill in Knowledge Discovery is associated with high pay for this job. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable
The average salary statewide among these paralegals was $49,950, with those in the 90th percentile earning $73,840. The highest paid throughout the state, however, were employed in Vancouver where, at $81,020, the top ten percent averaged roughly $31,000 more than the state average. Area name. 58510. Salary and employment data has been compiled by the United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics in May 2010.
Washington Paralegal Salaries. A salary report released by the US Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics indicated that there were 6,400 paralegals employed in Washington during 2011, most of which held employment in Seattle, Tacoma, and Bellevue. 58510. Salary and employment data has been compiled by the United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics in May 2010.
Average Paralegal salaries for job postings in Seattle, WA are 8% higher than average Paralegal salaries for job postings nationwide. 
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Paralegal I in Seattle, WA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Paralegal I in Seattle are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Paralegal I salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Paralegal I in Seattle, WA.
The salary for someone with the job title Paralegal I in Seattle, WA varies depending on a number of factors. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Paralegal I salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Paralegal I in Seattle, WA.
The average salary for senior paralegal jobs in Seattle, WA is $65,000. Average senior paralegal salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term senior paralegal anywhere in the job listing. 
Average Paralegal Salaries. The average salary for paralegal jobs in Seattle, WA is $58,000. Average paralegal salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term paralegal anywhere in the job listing.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). Total Pay (?X