If your lease ends in 2 months, you can start looking for a house now. It will take time to get your offer accepted, inspections done and usually about another 30 days to close escrow.
The advertised price of a house is just a starting point. It's up to you (and the market) to decide how much the house is really worth -- whether more, less, or exactly the offer price -- based on such factors as: 1  how much comparable houses have recently sold for.
If you want to really estimate how long it will take, assume that you’re not going to get an offer until roughly 20 buyers have been through your home. And then assume that it will take 2-3 offers before a deal is done. Of course this is not perfect, but here’s how we estimate how long it will take for that to occur.
How long it takes to find the home depends on your market inventory and your personal preference. The average client of mine finds a home in as little as one week to 4 weeks. From that period when we find the home and go under contract you are looking at another 30 to 45 days to close in most cases.
You never know how long it will take in todays market. If you find a house you like that is a short sale then it could take at least 2 months. I have clients that start 4-6 months looking.
When you get 75 days out from your move in date, I would start actively touring the homes in the price range and area you like. In our area, if you start sooner those homes will be gone before you are ready to write a contract. From writing a contract to possession it is 30 to 45 days.
Buying a house is a little like asking someone to marry you. In both cases, you make your offer believing there's a good chance you'll get a yes, but you know you could get a no. If the answer is yes in either situation, your fates will be linked for many years to come – possibly until death do you part.
It is hard to say how long it will take for you to purchase a home. I know a couple that started looking for a house in January, and still have not closed. I know another guy that started looking, offered and closed the transaction within 3 weeks.