In accounting, reconcile means to compare two sets of records to make sure they are in agreement. One of those sets of records is usually a bank account or other type of financial account, and the other set of records is usually your accounting records. Reconciliations. Bank reconciliations are the most common type of reconciliation. To ensure accurate accounting records, perform reconciliations on all your financial accounts. Compare each transaction in your financial statement with the same transaction in your accounting records.
The noun CHECKING ACCOUNT has 1 sense: 1. a bank account against which the depositor can drawn checks payable on demand. Familiarity information: CHECKING ACCOUNT used as a noun is very rare. 
DEFINITION of 'Checking Account'. A transactional deposit account held at a financial institution that allows for withdrawals and deposits. Money held in a checking account is very liquid, and can be withdrawn using checks, automated cash machines and electronic debits, among other methods.
7. an amount of money deposited with a bank, as in a checking or savings account. 8. an accommodation extended to a customer permitting the charging of goods or services. 9. a statement of financial transactions. 10. a formal record of the debits and credits relating to a particular person, business, etc. 11. 1. (Banking & Finance) an account created by the deposit of money at a bank by a customer. 2. (Banking & Finance) the amount of moneys credited or debited to a depositor at a bank.
A checking account is an account at a financial institution, usually a bank, that allows for deposits and withdrawals. A transactional deposit account held at a financial institution that allows for withdrawals and deposits. Money held in a checking account is very liquid, and can be withdrawn using checks, automated cash machines and electronic debits, among other methods.
When you hear your banker say, I'll credit your checking account, it means the transaction will increase your checking account balance. Conversely, if your bank debits your account (e.g., takes a monthly service charge from your account) your checking account balance decreases. 1 Debit means left. 2  Credit means right. 3  Every transaction affects two accounts or more. 4  At least one account will be debited and at least one account will be credited. 5  The total of the amount(s) entered as debits must equal the total of the amount(s) entered as credits.
When a bank account is RESTRAINED it means that the bank has put a  freeze on the account and no funds may be withdrawn by anyone. Usually this is the result of some part … y with a judgment against  the account holder who --by virtue of their judgment obtained in  court-- has the right to go after any assets of the account holder.
The total amount of interest paid by the bank on your deposit account (checking, savings, CDs, IRAs) during the year. Includes both interest paid on the amount held in the account, as well as compounded interest for the year. A type of deposit account that enables customers to deposit funds and withdraw available funds on demand, typically by writing a check or using a debit card. These accounts are sometimes interest-bearing.
BANK ACCOUNT: related words searches. » Meaning of account. » Definition of business relationship. » checking account: pronunciation in phonetic transcription. » giro account definition. » savings account: pronunciation in phonetic transcription. 