Between the Pennar and Kaveri rivers is the key religious site associated with Shiva in his form as Lord of the Dance: the temple city of Chidambaram. The Cholas believed Chidambaram was the earthly home of Shiva and the sacred place where he performed the dance of bliss (ananda tandava) as Lord of the Dance. 
Natraj is one of the names of the Hindu god, Shiva, the most revered god in this ancient religion. The image of Natraj is also known as dancing Shiva. Shiva is frequently pictured with his bull, Nandi and his consort, Parvati who is worshipped as Kali or Durga. 
Share. By Subhamoy Das. Nataraja or Nataraj, the dancing form of Lord Shiva, is a symbolic synthesis of the most important aspects of Hinduism, and the summary of the central tenets of this Vedic religion. The term 'Nataraj' means 'King of Dancers' (Sanskrit nata = dance; raja = king)
Posted by: Sanchita Chowdhury. Nataraja is a popular figure in Hindu mythology. It is the depiction of Lord Shiva in a dancing pose. The word Nataraja is derived from 'Natya' which means dance and 'Raja' which means King. So, Nataraja basically means King of Dance. Shiva as Nataraja was first depicted in the Chola bronze statues. Shiva is shown as dancing on an aureole of flames, lifting His left leg and balancing Himself of the demon Apasmara who is a symbol of ignorance. 
Shiva the Hindu god of destruction is also known as Nataraja, the Lord of Dancers (In Sanskrit Nata means dance and raja means Lord). 
An essential significance of Shiva's dance at Tillai, the traditional name of Chidambaram, can be explained as: 1  First, it is seen as the image of his rhythmic play which is the source of all movement within the universe. Naṭarāja in Sanskrit (नटराज) means Lord of dance. The word is also used in Telugu,Tamil,Kannada, Malayalam. Koothan is derived from the Tamil word Koothu, which means dance or performance. A male dancer is termed Koothan. Also known as Natarajan in Tamil, meaning Naatiyathin (of dance) Raajan (king). Naatiyam is another word for dance in Tamil
1 As the Lord of Dance, Nataraja, Shiva performs the tandava, the dance in which the universe is created, maintained, and dissolved. 2  Shiva's long, matted tresses, usually piled up in a knot, loosen during the dance and crash into the heavenly bodies, knocking them off course or destroying them utterly. Naṭarāja in Sanskrit (नटराज) means Lord of dance. The word is also used in Telugu,Tamil,Kannada, Malayalam. Koothan is derived from the Tamil word Koothu, which means dance or performance. A male dancer is termed Koothan. Also known as Natarajan in Tamil, meaning Naatiyathin (of dance) Raajan (king). Naatiyam is another word for dance in Tamil
Shri Natraj School of Dance is offering group and personal classes in Bharatnatyam, Kathak, Folk, Western, Bollywood Dance & Theater and Drama Acting at several locations in Houston, Dallas, Keller, Southlake & Forth worth Area. Upcoming News. School in News. Shri Natraj School of Dance performs at India House before Spelling Bee Finale on May 2014. Kusum Sharma, director of Kusum Sharma's Shri Natraj School of Dance performed in series of Houston Grand Opera play as Goddess Sita.