One molecule of DNA is different from the other because-Each molecule of DNA is made of it's own unique nucleotide sequence that carries a specific biological messages. Edit. Share to: Answered. In Uncategorized. DNA strands may be very similar (a human DNA strand is 99% alike an ape DNA strand!!), but due to recombination and probability, there isn't any DNA strand like other one. Co … nsider 4 DNA strands, each with the same nucleotide sequence. Now recombine two of them in any point, any VARIABLE point.
DNA, thus, carries a deoxyribose sugar and RNA contains a ribose sugar. DNA is composed of several types of nitrogenous bases: adenine, thymine, cytosine and guanine. RNA contains nitrogenous bases similar to DNA, but does not contain thymine. It contains uracil instead.
Organisms all possess DNA as their genetic material. What differentiates them (and their DNA) is the sequence of base-pairs within the DNA. The base-pairs are actually specific sequences of nucleotides (i.e. adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine, labelled A, T, G, and C respectively) which encode genes. In other words, the DNA in each organism is made of these bases, but their sequences differ from organism to organism
The base-pairs … are actually specific sequences of nucleotides (i.e. adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine, labelled A, T, G, and C respectively) which encode genes. In other words, the DNA in each organism is made of these bases, but their sequences differ from organism to organism. DNA strands may be very similar (a human DNA strand is 99% alike an ape DNA strand!!), but due to recombination and probability, there isn't any DNA strand like other one. Co … nsider 4 DNA strands, each with the same nucleotide sequence. Now recombine two of them in any point, any VARIABLE point.
DNA and RNA are identical in almost every way. They differ in their sugar molecules. DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, whereas RNA contains the sugar ribose. These two sugar … s are the same except for one OH (hydroxide) ion (deoxyribose has one OH ion more than ribose). What differentiates them (and their DNA) is the sequence of base-pairs within the DNA. The base-pairs are actually specific sequences of nucleotides (i.e. adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine, labelled A, T, G, and C respectively) which encode genes.
RNA is a single stranded molecule. There is a different sugar in the molecule as compared to DNA. This sugar is called ribose and one of four bases is present--adenine, guanine, cytosine or uracil. Sources: 1  http://www.enotes.com/homework-help/major-macromolecules-... (Answer #1). Macromolecules include: carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. Macromolecules consists of smaller molecules joined together chemically. Carbohydrates, which are sugars and starches, contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and the ratio of hydrogen to oxygen is 2:1.
The bases on one strand pair with the bases on another strand: adenine pairs with thymine, and guanine pairs with cytosine. DNA molecules are long — so long, in fact, that they can't fit into cells without the right packaging. To fit inside cells, DNA is coiled tightly to form structures we call chromosomes. DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code
The base pairs in DNA are adenine with thymine and cytosine with guanine. DNA has a spiral staircase-like structure. The steps are formed by the nitrogen bases of the nucleotides where adenine pairs with thymine and cytosine with guanine. Photo courtesy U.S. National Library of Medicine. 