‘Pro’ means before, and ‘eu’ means ‘true’ or ‘good’. So Prokaryotic means before a nucleus, and eukaryotic means possessing a true nucleus.. This is one of the differences between the two cells with Prokaryotic having no nuclei and eukaryotic having a true nuclei. However this is only of a few differences between the two. Archaea and Bacteria are small, simple cells surrounded by a membrane and a cell wall, with a circular strand... The Prokaryotic Cell. The prokaryotic cell precedes any forms of Bacteria, Archaea, and eventually Eukaryotes by approximately two billion years.
Answers. Best Answer: prokaryotes evolved first. these are basically your single-celled organisms and lack a nucleus or complex cell structures. eukaryotes evolved later, about 2 billion years ago, and have a nucleus and other cell structures. 
The difference between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell is eukaryotic cell is inside of people, plants, and animals. The prokaryotic is a bacteria cell Study Island: Prokaryot … ic cells do not have a true nucleus or membrane-bound organelles. Mitochondria and chloroplasts have prokaryote-like features. For example, although most of the DNA in eukaryotic cells resides in the nucleus, both mitochondria and chloroplasts have DNA molecules in their inner compartments.
Membranes. Most prokaryotes are bacteria, while humans, animals, plants and fungi are eukaryotes.The prokaryotic cell has only one membrane, the plasma membrane, which surrounds its cellular contents. The eukaryotic cell also has a plasma membrane, but, in addition, it is filled with many membrane-enclosed compartments. Mitochondria and Chloroplasts. Eukaryotes contain mitochondria or chloroplasts. Mitochondria within animal cells and chloroplasts within plant cells look like prokaryotes. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are similar in size and features to
Bacteria and archaea are classified as prokaryotes, a group of simple, single-cell organisms. Prokaryotes usually contain a single, circular deoxyribonucleic acid, DNA, molecule and lack a nucleus and intracellular organelles. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are similar to bacteria in size and divide independently of the eukaryote host cell by a process called binary fission. Bacteria also replicate by binary fission, while eukaryotes multiply by mitosis or meiosis.
Report Abuse. prokaryotes likely existed first and eukaryotes likely evolved from symbiotic relationships between different kinds of prokaryotes. the evidence is that some prokaryotes evolved directly into the organelles within eukaryotes such as mitochondria and chloroplasts. 
Living things have evolved into three large clusters of closely related organisms, called domains: Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukaryota. Archaea and Bacteria are small, relatively simple cells surrounded by a membrane and a cell wall, with a circular strand of DNA containing their genes. They are called prokaryotes. 
DNA analysis reveals that eukaryotes contain many bacterial genes. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are similar to bacteria in size and divide independently of the eukaryote host cell by a process called binary fission. Bacteria also replicate by binary fission, while eukaryotes multiply by mitosis or meiosis.
Eukaryotes are the cells that make up our bodies, plants and animals and all cellular organisms that contain their genetic material in a nucleus, have a cytoskeleton and contain organelles, such as mitochondria or cytoplasts. Eukaryotes are thought to have evolved from prokaryotes. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are similar to bacteria in size and divide independently of the eukaryote host cell by a process called binary fission. Bacteria also replicate by binary fission, while eukaryotes multiply by mitosis or meiosis.
About 2 billion years ago only prokaryotes inhabited our world. The main difference between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is that eukaryotes have a nucleus and prokaryotes don't. In biology, pro means before and eu means true, while karyote refers to the nucleus. Mitochondria and Chloroplasts. Eukaryotes contain mitochondria or chloroplasts. Mitochondria within animal cells and chloroplasts within plant cells look like prokaryotes. Mitochondria and chloroplasts are similar in size and features to