Filing. California’s residency requirement for divorce is six months, so you must live in the state at least this long before you can file. After you file and serve your petition for divorce on your spouse, she has 30 days to answer it. This deadline is not immutable, however. Both must occur before the clock begins ticking. If you and your spouse do not already have an agreement as to how you’re going to resolve issues between you, you can use the six months to try to reach one. In California, when you reach such an agreement, you and your attorney need only submit it to the court.
To get a divorce in California, at least one of the spouses has to have been a resident of the state for at least six months before filing the divorce petition. You must also live in the county where you file the divorce petition for at least three months before filing. California was the first state to adopt the no-fault divorce concept. In California, a dissolution of marriage can be granted if the court finds that irreconcilable differences have caused an irrevocable breakdown of the marriage.
You will remain married for at least six months in California after you file your petition for divorce. California is one of several states that has a waiting period to make sure you really want to do what you’re about to do. Both must occur before the clock begins ticking. If you and your spouse do not already have an agreement as to how you’re going to resolve issues between you, you can use the six months to try to reach one. In California, when you reach such an agreement, you and your attorney need only submit it to the court.
The law states that six months is the least amount of time your divorce could take; you should know that that length of time is completely tentative. There are many legal issues that could extend the amount of time that your divorce could take to complete. These are the important Issues revolving around: 1  Child Custody. 2  Child and Spousal Support. 3  The Division of Communal Property.
The party wishing to dissolve the marriage must petition with family law. The respondent has 30 days to respond to the petition. One party will then typically file for an Order to Show Cause hearing, at which point a judge will issue custody of minors, a restraining order if necessary, and take care of any other issues. This process can take up to 60 days. 
So the question how long does a divorce take in California can be summarized that the divorce process will take a minimum of six months if the other issues regarding the divorce are settled amicably and communication hasn’t broken down between the grieved parties. How Long Does A Divorce Take In California. This means that the couples is eligible for a divorce if there are irreconcilable differences in marriage and neither spouse has to indict the other of marital misdemeanors. To further understand how long does a divorce take in California; one has to be aware of the law stated by the state of California. The Californian law states that minimum time for divorce could be 6 months although the length of time is entirely tentative
How long does a divorce take in California also depends on cooperation of the spouses. With lack of cooperation between the spouses, their attorneys and the courts, the divorce proceedings may take several years. This means that the couples is eligible for a divorce if there are irreconcilable differences in marriage and neither spouse has to indict the other of marital misdemeanors. To further understand how long does a divorce take in California; one has to be aware of the law stated by the state of California. The Californian law states that minimum time for divorce could be 6 months although the length of time is entirely tentative