HIV infection occurs when a person is exposed to infected blood, semen, vaginal fluid or breast milk. HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) is the virus that causes AIDS (Acquire … d Immune Deficiency Syndrome). Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pathogen means something that causes sickness (path- = suffering, gen- = creation). HIV stands for Human Immunodeficiency Virus, which is a virus which sometimes, in time, causes the disease AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome). In other words, HIV is the pathogen, and being infected by HIV is the cause of the disease AIDS. The best ways to avoid being infected by HIV is never ever to share needles for drugs, and never ever to have penetrative sex without a condom
HIV stands for Human Immunodeficiency Virus, which is a virus which sometimes, … in time, causes the disease AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome). In other words, HIV is the pathogen, and being infected by HIV is the cause of the disease AIDS. The best ways to avoid being infected by HIV is never ever to share needles for drugs, and never ever to have penetrative sex without a condom. HIV is a virus. HIV itself is a pathogen Human Immunodeficiency virus cause HIV/AIDS disease it belongs to r … etro virus which has ability to convert mRNA to DNA the reverse transcription and possess reverse transcriptase enzyme. 2 people found this useful.
Report Abuse. Other answers are correct. HIV is the virus and therefore the pathogen. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a retrovirus that can lead to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a condition in humans in which the immune system begins to fail, leading to life-threatening opportunistic infections. The retrovirus HIV is the pathogen, and AIDS is the disease it causes. HIV is a member of the genus Lentivirus, part of the family of Retroviridae.
Best Answer: The answer is HIV!!! HIV itself is the pathogen that causes AIDS. HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is the name of the pathogen. @ A B are you kidding? HIV/AIDS is caused by a virus HIV is a virus. that's what the V stands for. and after a while HIV develops in to AIDS. The definition of pathogen is bacteria or virus that causes disease. So HIV is the virus that causes AIDS disease. Hope I helped :). AIDS (Aquired ImmunoDeficiency Syndrome) is the end result of the infection caused by HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus). HIV is NOT the same as AIDS.
Best Answer: HIV itself is a pathogen. Human Immunodefeciency Virus cause AIDS disease. it belongs to retro virus which has ability to convert mRNA to DNA the reverse transcription and possess reverse transcriptase enzyme. The retrovirus HIV is the pathogen, and AIDS is the disease it causes. HIV is a member of the genus Lentivirus, part of the family of Retroviridae.
HIV is a virus. HIV itself is a pathogen Human Immunodeficiency virus cause HIV/AIDS disease it belongs to r … etro virus which has ability to convert mRNA to DNA the reverse transcription and possess reverse transcriptase enzyme. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pathogen means something that causes sickness (path- = suffering, gen- = creation). HIV stands for Human Immunodeficiency Virus, which is a virus which sometimes, in time, causes the disease AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome). In other words, HIV is the pathogen, and being infected by HIV is the cause of the disease AIDS. The best ways to avoid being infected by HIV is never ever to share needles for drugs, and never ever to have penetrative sex without a condom
The etiologic agent of AIDS is. (HIV) (3). is considered a retrovirus, a virus that produces DNA, and is in the genus. (4). is the virus that eventually causes Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome or AIDS. Modes of Transmission. is spread directly from host to host through three venues: blood, semen, or vaginal fluid.
HIV, the human immunodeficiency virus, is itself a pathogen. HIV is a virus. HIV itself is a pathogen Human Immunodeficiency virus cause HIV/AIDS disease it belongs to r … etro virus which has ability to convert mRNA to DNA the reverse transcription and possess reverse transcriptase enzyme. 2 people found this useful.