Generally, the recommended starting clonazepam dosage for treating adults with seizures is 0.5 mg three times a day. The dose of clonazepam (Klonopin ®) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary, depending on a number of factors, including: The recommended starting clonazepam dose for treating panic disorder is clonazepam 0.25 mg twice daily. Your healthcare provider may increase your dose if necessary to control your panic disorder symptoms. Some considerations for people taking clonazepam include the following:
By Vanessa Taylor, Wed, March 23, 2011. Klonopin is the brand name of the generic drug clonazepam, a type of benzodiazepine. Benzodiazepines, which include drugs like Valium, Xanax and Ativan, are anti-anxiety medications prescribed for conditions like panic disorder and social anxiety disorder.
Possible Benefits. You can take benzodiazepines as a single dose therapy or several times a day for months (or even years). Studies suggest that they are effective in reducing symptoms of anxiety in approximately 70-80% of patients. They are quick acting. Tolerance does not develop in the anti-panic or other therapeutic effec
such as alprazolam (Niravam, Xanax), chlordiazepoxide (Librium, in Limbitrol), clonazepam (Klonopin), diazepam (Diastat ... panic attacks; agitation or restlessness; new or worsening irritability, anxiety, or depression ... time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your ... The dose will be gradually increased as necessary. ... Medication may also be given for anxiety and depression, pain control, and ... Benzodiazepines: Lorazepam (Ativan); Flurazepam (Dalmane); Clonazepam (Klonopin); Triazolam (Halcion); Chlordiazepoxide (Librium); Temazepam ...
Pediatric Patients: Klonopin is administered orally. In order to minimize drowsiness, the initial dose for infants and children (up to 10 years of age or 30 kg of body weight) should be between 0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg/day but not to exceed 0.05 mg/kg/day given in two or three divided doses. 1 mg — 1 KLONOPIN (front) ROCHE LOGO (reverse side). 2 mg — 2 KLONOPIN (front) ROCHE LOGO (reverse side). Klonopin Wafers (clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets) are white, round and debossed with the tablet strength expressed as a fraction or whole number (1/8, 1/4, ½, 1, or 2).
The recommended starting clonazepam dose for treating seizures in adults is clonazepam 0.5 mg (or less) three times daily. Your healthcare provider may slowly increase your dose as necessary to control your seizures, up to a maximum of clonazepam 20 mg total per day (split up into three smaller doses per day). The recommended starting clonazepam dose for treating panic disorder is clonazepam 0.25 mg twice daily. Your healthcare provider may increase your dose if necessary to control your panic disorder symptoms. Some considerations for people taking clonazepam include the following:
Panic Disorder. Adults: The initial dose for adults with panic disorder is 0.25 mg bid. An increase to the target dose for most patients of 1 mg/day may be made after 3 days. The recommended dose of 1 mg/day is based on the results from a fixed dose study in which the optimal effect was seen at 1 mg/day. 1 mg — 1 KLONOPIN (front) ROCHE LOGO (reverse side). 2 mg — 2 KLONOPIN (front) ROCHE LOGO (reverse side). Klonopin Wafers (clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets) are white, round and debossed with the tablet strength expressed as a fraction or whole number (1/8, 1/4, ½, 1, or 2).
Featured Stories about clonazepam anxiety dosage. Clonazepam www.lifescript.com/health/a-z/drugs_a-z/drugdatabase/c/clonazepam.aspx. Brand Name(s): Klonopin ®. ... that you may experience changes in your mental health if you take an antiepileptic medication such as clonazepam, but there ... any of the following symptoms: panic attacks; agitation or restlessness; new or worsening irritability, anxiety, or depression ... The dose will be gradually increased as necessary. ... Medication may also be given for anxiety and depression, pain control, and ... Benzodiazepines: Lorazepam (Ativan); Flurazepam (Dalmane); Clonazepam (Klonopin); Triazolam (Halcion); Chlordiazepoxide (Librium); Temazepam ...
Clonazepam is the generic form of the brand-name drug Klonopin, prescribed to treat seizures and panic attacks. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company. Your dose of clonazepam will depend on the condition you have and your response to the drug. Your doctor will start you at a low dose and increase your dose until you have a good response. This may take a few weeks. Clonazepam comes in tablets of 0.5, 1, and 2 milligrams (mg).
Be sure to mention either of the following: clonazepam (Klonopin) or phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek ... following symptoms: panic attacks; agitation or restlessness; new or worsening irritability, anxiety, or depression ... is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue ... The dose will be gradually increased as necessary. ... Medication may also be given for anxiety and depression, pain control, and ... Benzodiazepines: Lorazepam (Ativan); Flurazepam (Dalmane); Clonazepam (Klonopin); Triazolam (Halcion); Chlordiazepoxide (Librium); Temazepam ...