At rest, the membrane potential is -60 millivolts (mV), which means that the inside of the cell is negative in comparison to the outside. This is ultimately due to an unequal distribution of ions, especially sodium and potassium, between the outside and inside of the cell (see Table 1). At rest, neurons (and most other cells, too) exhibit an electrical charge difference across the membrane. This difference, or membrane potential, can be measured with tiny electrodes connected to a voltmeter or an oscilloscope.
Excitatory potential is stimulated in the dendrite. When a neuron is stimulated to conduct, the resting potential changes at the point of stimulation of a dendrite. The ions from outside the cell and the ions from inside the cell change places, reversing the resting state. Figure 2 is a diagram of a nerve fiber at rest. It shows the high concentration of positively charged ions outside the cell membrane and the relatively negative ionic concentration in the fluids inside the membrane.
When a neuron is at rest, a)sodium ions are most concentrated inside the cell. b)potassium ions are most concentrated inside the cell. c)the outside of the cell is negatively charged. Best Answer: c. the outside of the cell is negatively charged. According to Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Membrane_po... The membrane potential of most cells is kept relatively stable.
Action Potential. The resting potential tells about what happens when a neuron is at rest. An action potential occurs when a neuron sends information down an axon, away from the cell body. Neuroscientists use other words, such as a spike or an impulse for the action potential. At rest, potassium ions (K +) can cross through the membrane easily. Also at rest, chloride ions (Cl -)and sodium ions (Na +) have a more difficult time crossing. The negatively charged protein molecules (A -) inside the neuron cannot cross the membrane.
Cell Membrane Potentials. Cell membranes in general, and membranes of nerve cells in particular, maintain a small voltage or potential across the membrane in its normal or resting state. In the rest state, the inside of the nerve cell membrane is negative with respect to the outside (typically about -70 millivolts). The voltage arises from differences in concentration of the electrolyte ions K + and Na + . In the selectively permeable cell membranes are ion channels which allow K + ions to pass to the interior of the cell, but block Na + ions. Negatively charged proteins on the interior of the cell are also denied passage across the membrane.
When a neuron is at rest, the inside of the neuron is negative relative to the outside. Although the concentrations of the different ions attempt to balance out on both sides of the membrane, they cannot because the cell membrane allows only some ions to pass through channels (ion channels). At rest, potassium ions (K +) can cross through the membrane easily. Also at rest, chloride ions (Cl -)and sodium ions (Na +) have a more difficult time crossing. The negatively charged protein molecules (A -) inside the neuron cannot cross the membrane.
Animal cell cross-section, showing the membrane. Resting membrane potential is the difference in voltage of the fluids inside a cell and outside a cell, which is usually between -70 to -80 millivolts (mV). A cell membrane separates one charge on the cell's interior from another charge on the cell's exterior. View slideshow of images above.
At the instant of action potential: a. there is a high concentration of positive ions outside the cell membrane. b. the neuron is at rest. c. the difference in resting potential is completely reversed. Figure 2 is a diagram of a nerve fiber at rest. It shows the high concentration of positively charged ions outside the cell membrane and the relatively negative ionic concentration in the fluids inside the membrane.
Resting Membrane Potential (RMP) is the voltage (charge) difference across the cell membrane when the cell is at rest. RMP is a product of the distribution of charged particles (ions). 
Best Answer: E) All options are correct. There is always, at rest, more K inside than outside, the inside is, at rest, always more negative than the the outside, this is due, partially, to the presence of phospadytalserine, a negatively charged membrane protein, also due to the active regulation of ions.