Animals. There are many different types of animals that live in the temperate rainforest biome. A few examples are, mountain lions (also known as cougars or pumas, above left), Roosevelt elks (above left center), varied thrush (above right center), and pacific tree frog (above right).
Plants Animals Climate Northeast Asian Deciduous Forest Deciduous forests can be found in the eastern half of North America, and the middle of Europe. There are many deciduous forests in Asia. Some of the major areas that they are in are southwest Russia, Japan, and eastern China.
LOCATION: There are two types of rainforest biomes: temperate and tropical rainforests. Temperate rainforests are found along coasts in temperate regions. The largest temperate rainforests are on the Pacific coast in North America, stretching from Alaska to Oregon.
More than two thirds of the world's plant species are found in the tropical rainforests: plants that provide shelter and food for rainforest animals as well as taking part in the gas exchanges which provide much of the world's oxygen supply.
Epiphytes are commonly found in the temperate zone (like in temperate rainforests). A few examples of epiphytes are moss, and lichen. Epiphytes use photosynthesis to get energy, and take moisture from the air (rain, fog), roots grow mainly so that the epiphyte can attach to the other plant, usually a tree.
The temperate rainforest is home to a variety of plants and animals, including giant trees, flowers, slugs, birds, deer, black bears, rodents and nocturnal animals such as raccoons and bats. The temperate rainforest is on the northwest shoreline of North America, and stretches from northern California to south Alaska.
The Temperate Forest is full of various plants and trees. There are Pine Fir, Hemlock, Spruce, and Sequoias just to name a few. Woodpeckers eat at the bark of some trees, and some squirrels and other small animals feed on the seeds in the pinecones. Some plants are used to make medicines for people.