The DASH Diet, Explained. DASH stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. It’s one of two diets recommended by the USDA to promote health and wellness and prevent chronic diseases like high blood pressure or diabetes. 
Because the DASH diet is a healthy way of eating, it offers health benefits besides just lowering blood pressure. The DASH diet is also in line with dietary recommendations to prevent osteoporosis, cancer, heart disease, stroke and diabetes. In addition to the standard DASH diet, there is also a lower sodium version of the diet. You can choose the version of the diet that meets your health needs: 1  Standard DASH diet. 2  You can consume up to 2,300 milligrams (mg) of sodium a day.
The DASH diet includes plenty of fruits, vegetables, low-fat dairy products, and whole grains, as well as some legumes, poultry and fish, plus small amounts of read meat, fats and sweets. It is low in saturated fat, total fat and cholesterol. The DASH diet was not designed as a weight loss regime. It was designed to reduce blood pressure. Patients with hypertension experienced reductions of 11 mm Hg in systolic blood pressure and 6 mm Hg in diastolic
DASH diet: An eating plan designed to lower the blood pressure. DASH is an acronym for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. The DASH combination diet has been shown to decrease the blood pressure and so helps prevent and control high blood pressure. The DASH combination diet is rich in fruits, vegetables, and low fat dairy foods, and low in saturated and total fat. It also is low in cholesterol, high in dietary fiber, potassium, calcium, and magnesium, and moderately high in protein.
1 The DASH diet-high in fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy products. 2  Overall fat and saturated fat levels were low, while fiber and protein levels were high. 3  It was rich in potassium, magnesium, calcium, whole grains, poultry, fish, and nuts. The DASH diet was not designed as a weight loss regime. It was designed to reduce blood pressure. Patients with hypertension experienced reductions of 11 mm Hg in systolic blood pressure and 6 mm Hg in diastolic
People on the DASH diet eat lots of fruits, vegetables, whole grain, low-fat dairy foods, as well as poultry, fish, meat, nuts and beans. The quantities of added fats, red meat, and sugar-laden drinks and foods are kept to a minimum. The DASH diet was not designed as a weight loss regime. It was designed to reduce blood pressure. Patients with hypertension experienced reductions of 11 mm Hg in systolic blood pressure and 6 mm Hg in diastolic
The DASH diet is rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy foods; includes meat, fish, poultry, nuts, and beans; and is limited in sugar-sweetened foods and beverages, red meat, and added fats. The DASH diet (D ietary A pproaches to S top H ypertension) is a dietary pattern promoted by the U.S. -based National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (part of the National Institutes of Health, an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services) to prevent and control hypertension.
The DASH Diet Plan. The DASH diet eating plan is a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, low fat or nonfat dairy. It also includes mostly whole grains; lean meats, fish and poultry; nuts and beans. It is high fiber and low to moderate in fat. It is a plan that follows US guidelines for sodium content, along with vitamins and minerals. 
The DASH diet emphasizes vegetables, fruit and low-fat dairy foods — and moderate amounts of whole grains, fish, poultry and nuts. In addition to the standard DASH diet, there is also a lower sodium version of the diet. You can choose the version of the diet that meets your health needs: 1  Standard DASH diet. 2  You can consume up to 2,300 milligrams (mg) of sodium a day.