The Washington State Senate is the upper house of the Washington State Legislature. The body consists of 49 members, each representing a district with a population of nearly 140,000. The State Senate meets at the Legislative Building in Olympia. As with the lower House of Representatives, state senators serve without term limits, though senators serve four-year terms. Senators are elected from the same legislative districts as House members, with each district electing two representatives but only one senator.
There are 435 Representatives in the House of Representatives. The number of members in the House of Representatives is a different story and is based on population. The number of seats depends on the population of each state which in turn determines the number of districts. However, every state is constitutionally guaranteed at least one seat no matter how small its population. The number of seats in the House is currently 435.
Every two years is considered one Congress (today’s Congress is the 112th Congress. Each year is considered one legislative session. Therefore, we are currently in the first session of the 112th Congress). Five delegates are considered non-voting members. They represent the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands (first representative elected in 2008), and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The number of seats depends on the population of each state which in turn determines the number of districts. However, every state is constitutionally guaranteed at least one seat no matter how small its population. The number of seats in the House is currently 435.
There are 150 members of the house of representatives as opposed to 31 members of the senate. According to the most recent census figures, the ideal house district population is 113,243 as opposed to an ideal population of 547,952 for each senate district. The Texas House of Representatives is composed of 150 members, each elected for a two-year term.
All 435 seats in the House of Representatives are up for re-election every two years during even numbered years. Members serve two-year terms. Senators serve six-year terms. Approximately one third of the Senate is up for re-election every two years. Each Congress is two years in length, consisting of two sessions. For example, in the 107th Congress (2001-2002), 9,130 bills and joint resolutions were introduced. Only 383 of them became law.
The United States Senate is a legislative chamber in the bicameral legislature of the United States, and together with the U.S. House of Representatives makes up the U.S. Congress. First convened in 1789, the composition and powers of the Senate are established in Article One of the U.S. Constitution. Each state is represented by two senators, regardless of population, who serve staggered six-year terms. The Senate uses Standing Rules of the Senate for operation. Like the House of Representatives, the Senate meets in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. At one end of the chamber of the Senate is a dais from which the presiding officer presides.
There are 535 members of Congress 100 Senators and 435 Representatives. All states have two Senators while population determines representation in the House. The Commonwealth has 9 members of the House of Representatives. Each Congress is two years in length, consisting of two sessions. For example, in the 107th Congress (2001-2002), 9,130 bills and joint resolutions were introduced. Only 383 of them became law.
The Senate has a membership of 40 Senators elected for 4-year terms, 20 to begin every 2 years. During his or her lifetime a person may serve no more than 12 years in the Senate, Assembly, or both, in any combination of terms. 
There are 100 members in the Senate. Each state elects two senators no matter the size or population of the state. In the House of Representatives there are 435 members. States are divided into districts based on their population. For every 693,000 people, a state will have one district. Tennessee has nine districts, and therefore nine members of the House of Representatives. A senator serves a six year term and they represent everyone in his or her state. A member of the House of Representatives serves a two year term and represents only the people who live in his or her district. United States senators are elected by the people who live in their state. Usually, there are at least two people, or “candidates,” who are competing against each other to have the job of senator. The candidate who gets the most votes becomes the senator.