In fact, tea made from the dandelion's root or leaves has been used in traditional Chinese and Native American medicine for centuries; now, even Dr. Oz has jumped on board, recommending dandelion tea as part of his 48-hour cleanse to help your liver release toxins while you sleep. 
Dandelion root may have anti-cancer properties. To some, the common dandelion is just a bothersome weed. However, dandelion root has been used in traditional herbal medicine for hundreds of years. After examining the properties of dandelion in detail, modern science suggests that its root might have significant benefits that can keep you healthy and disease-free. Clinical research suggests that dandelion is an effective diuretic that increases urine output by the kidneys. In a study published in the Journal of Complementary and Alternative Medicine in 2009, human subjects consumed dandelion extract for one day while their urine production was monitored every few hours.
Among other things, dandelion root and other plants of the dandelion have been used as a gentle laxative, a digestive aid, to treat liver and kidney problems and to relieve inflammation, boils, fever and diarrhea. Dandelion root is known to stimulate the appetite and promote digestion. Dandelion root provides vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin D and vitamin B complex, as well as zinc, iron and potassium. Because of its iron content, it is widely used as a remedy for liver ailments, and has a diuretic effect that can help rid the liver of toxins.
Dandelion is an herb. People use the above ground parts and root to make medicine. Dandelion is used for many conditions, but so far, there isn’t enough scientific evidence to determine whether or not it is effective for any of them. Dandelion is used for loss of appetite, upset stomach, intestinal gas, gallstones, joint pain, muscle aches, eczema, and bruises. 1 A specific combination of dandelion root and leaf extracts of another herb called uva ursi taken by mouth seems to help reduce the number of UTIs in women. 2  In this combination, uva ursi is used because it seems to kill bacteria, and dandelion is used to increase urine flow.
Overview. While many people think of the dandelion (Taraxacum officinale) as a pesky weed, it is chock full of vitamins A, B, C, and D, as well as minerals, such as iron, potassium, and zinc. Dandelion leaves are used to add flavor to salads, sandwiches, and teas
You may consider dandelion as a type of weed, but its root has a long history of therapeutic use. Dandelion has been used since ancient times for its healthful properties and support for liver complaints. In Korean herbal medicine dandelion has been used to improve energy levels and health. 
1 Preventing urinary tract infections (UTIs). 2  A specific combination of dandelion root and leaf extracts of another herb called uva ursi taken by mouth seems to help reduce the number of UTIs in women. 3  In this combination, uva ursi is used because it seems to kill bacteria, and dandelion is used to increase urine flow. 1 A specific combination of dandelion root and leaf extracts of another herb called uva ursi taken by mouth seems to help reduce the number of UTIs in women. 2  In this combination, uva ursi is used because it seems to kill bacteria, and dandelion is used to increase urine flow.
Dandelion root extract is helpful in enhancing digestion, as it contains diuretic properties and therapeutic benefits for people who experience constipation. Dandelion root tea is used as a tonic for many conditions related to the digestive system, such as an upset stomach, loss of appetite and intestinal gas. It's also used in treating gallstones. This powerful herb contains substances that may increase urine production and promote bowel movements, according to MedlinePlus.
Dandelion coffee (also dandelion tea) is herbal tea often used as a coffee substitute, made from the root of the dandelion plant. The roasted dandelion root pieces and the beverage have some resemblance to coffee in appearance and taste. 