Development of Ant-Man began in April 2006, with the hiring of Wright to direct and co-write with Cornish. By April 2011, Wright and Cornish had completed three drafts of the script and Wright shot test footage for the film in July 2012. In November 2013, Feige stated that aspects of Eric O'Grady 's Ant-Man would not be featured in the film. By November 25, Rudd became the front-runner to play Hank Pym, and casting for Pym's girlfriend had begun.
For the film, see Ant-Man (film) . Ant-Man is the name of several fictional superheroes appearing in books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Stan Lee, Larry Lieber and Jack Kirby, Ant-Man's first appearance was in Tales to Astonish #27 (January 1962). Chris McCarthy is the third character to use the Ant-Man title. Created by Robert Kirkman and Phil Hester, the character first appears in Irredeemable Ant-Man #1 (December 2006). He was a low level agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. working in the reconnaissance department on the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier
Ant-Man is a 2015 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics characters of the same name: Scott Lang and Hank Pym. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the twelfth installment of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). In November 2013, Feige stated that aspects of Eric O'Grady 's Ant-Man would not be featured in the film. By November 25, Rudd became the front-runner to play Hank Pym, and casting for Pym's girlfriend had begun.
33,309 pages on this wiki. Ant-Man is an American superhero film, based on the Marvel Comics characters, Henry Pym and Scott Lang. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, the film is the twelfth installment of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. in 1989, the original Ant-Man Hank Pym resigns from S.H.I.E.L.D. after discovering that S.H.I.E.L.D. attempted to duplicate his size change technology; Pym believes the technology is dangerous and vows to hide it from the world.
Ant-Man is the name of a Marvel superhero, first created by legendary comic book writer Stan Lee and illustrator Jack Kirby in 1962 (predating other superheroes such as the Hulk, Spider Man and Thor by several months). There has been a lot of speculation as to just how comedic Ant-Man will be. Wright, the film’s original director, is known for his ability to blend comedy with horror (Shaun of the Dead), and sci-fi (The World’s End).
For the Ant-Man film, Rudd’s incarnation of the character will still be a petty thief who gets the Ant-Man suit from Pym, but their origin story will be modified for the big screen. As demonstrated in the trailers, the Ant-Man suit allows Lang to shrink and communicate with ants while greatly enhancing his strength. Last year, Wright left Ant-Man over “creative differences” with Marvel and Peyton Reed was brought in to replace him as the director. Wright retains story and screenplay credit with Joe Cornish, but Paul Rudd and Adam McKay also have a credit for their rewrite of the script.
Starring Paul Rudd in the lead as master thief Scott Lang and Michael Douglas as Hank Pym (the discoverer of the miraculous Pym Particles), the film will introduce Ant-Man to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, as two generations of the superhero identity work together to fight a common enemy. The synopsis itself hasn’t changed (the last update upgraded Scott Lang from con-man to master thief) but it does reveal that Ant-Man will feature Cannavale as Paxton, Pena peña As, Luis greer As, Maggie “Tip.T.” I harris As, Dave David dastmalchian As kurt And Wood harris As. gale
THE ORIGINAL – In Marvel Comics history going back to the golden era ’60s, Ant-Man is Hank Pym, one of most brilliant scientists/inventors in the Marvel Universe, and a founding member of The Avengers. ANT-MAN II – After Hank Pym hung up the mantle at one point, we got Ant-Man II, a.k.a Scott Lang (who is actually the featured character in the movie, played by Paul Rudd). Scott was an electronics expert who turned to burglary to help his family.