Sheri is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced She-ri. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 11716 in baby name popularity for girls with 9 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Sheri Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sheri has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sheri to other names. Sheri is a variant spelling of Cherri.
English Meaning: The name Sherry is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Sherry is: From the French 'cheri' meaning darling or dear one. Also, from the white meadow. American Meaning: The name Sherry is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Sherry is: From the French 'cheri' meaning darling or dear one. Also, from the white meadow.
English Meaning: The name Sherri is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Sherri is: From the French 'cheri' meaning darling or dear one. Also, from the white meadow. American Meaning: The name Sherri is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Sherri is: From the French 'cheri' meaning darling or dear one. Also, from the white meadow.
The highest recorded use of the name Sheri was in 1963 with a total of 3,094 babies. (That's a lot of baby Sheris). According to the 1963 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Sheri ranks #101 in popularity as a baby girl's name in Arizona. Imagine that, 39 babies in Arizona have the same name as you in 1963. Across the entire United States a total of 3,107 babies also bear the same first name during the same year. 
Sheri's language of origin is French and it is predominantly used in English. Sheri is a variant form of the English Cherie. It's meaning is darling.. Sherry is a fortified wine made from white grapes that are grown near the town of Jerez, Spain. Sheri is a female given name, from the French for beloved, Sheri Named Personality/Celebrity
[ 3 syll. (s)he-ri, sh-eri ] The baby girl name Sheri is pronounced as-IH EH R-iy- †. Sheri's language of origin is Germanic, French, English-American, and Hebrew. It is predominantly used in English. Sheri is an English form of the French, German, Dutch, English, and Scandinavian Charlotte. Sheri is also a form of the English Cherie. Sheri is also a form of the English Sharissa. Sheri is also a form of the English Sharon. Sheri is also a spelling variant of the English Sherry. Sheri is an unusual baby girl name. Its usage peaked modestly in 1967 with 0.172% of baby girls being named Sheri
Sheri /she-ri/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Sheri's name origins are Old German, French and English, and the name Sheri means free man; dear. Sheri is an alternate form of Charlotte (Old German). Sheri is also a variation of Cher (French). Sheri is also used as a variation of Sherry (English, French). Sheri is a very popular first name for women (#379 out of 4276, Top 9%) but a rare last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Sheri for girls.