Find maps, directions and driving tips for your vacation at Aulani, A Disney Resort & Spa in Ko Olina, Hawai‘i. Get directions to Aulani, located about 20 miles from Honolulu on the lush, leeward side of O‘ahu. 
Disney's Aulani Resort and Spa is located right on the oceanfront in the beautiful Ko Olina Resort area of Oahu, Hawaii, about 17 miles north of the Honolulu Airport. Save up to 30%! Book a 4 night stay at Aulani and get a 25% discount; book 5+ nights at Aulani and get a 30% discount. Discount is valid for stays most nights 1/4/16 - 3/17/16. If booked by 9/28/15, each guest in the room will receive a free meal at Ulu Cafe each day of your stay. Book by 2/8/16. Offer subject to availability
The Aulani resort is designed with the Hawaiian local culture in mind. The Walt Disney team has done extensive research on Hawaii to help workers understand Hawaiian customs and traditions. Hawaiian cultural programs are also incorporated into the resort; including music, dance, history, and arts and crafts. The Aulani resort and spa provide childcare for children between the ages of 6 weeks to 14 years old. This service is available from 6am to 12 am daily and limited to customers only.
View Points Charts & Calculator. Delight in activities under the island sun at Aulani, Disney Vacation Club Villas, Ko Olina, Hawaiʻi. Here, you'll enjoy access to the outstanding amenities, dining and recreation of Aulani, A Disney Resort & Spa—all amid the tropical splendor of Oʻahu. 
A premier oceanfront resort on the island of O`ahu, Hawai`i, the Aulani, A Disney Resort & Spa in Ko Olina is a place for families to gather, reconnect and immerse themselves in the stories of Hawai`i. Disney resorts are known for their recreational opportunities and Aulani is no exception. For families seeking fun, relaxation and entertainment, Aulani, Disney Vacation Club Villas, Ko Olina, Hawai`i includes a large selection of nearby amenities and recreational opportunities.
Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa is a beachside hotel, resort and vacation destination offering complimentary children's activities and programs at the Ko Olina Resort & Marina in Kapolei on the Hawaiian island of Oahu. The Aulani resort and spa provide childcare for children between the ages of 6 weeks to 14 years old. This service is available from 6am to 12 am daily and limited to customers only.
Disney's Aulani Resort is the newest member of the Disney Vacation Club collection of resorts, slated to open in August of 2011. Owning one of these new timeshares could be quite a drain to your wallet if purchased directly from the resort. 