Impaired glucose tolerance: A transition phase between normal glucose tolerance and diabetes, also referred to as prediabetes. In impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), the levels of blood glucose are between normal and diabetic. People with IGT do not have diabetes. 
Impaired fasting glucose is defined as a fasting glucose that is higher than the upper limit of normal, but not high enough to be classified as diabetes mellitus. Some patients with impaired fasting glucose can also be diagnosed with impaired glucose tolerance, but many have normal responses to a glucose tolerance test. Fasting blood glucose levels are in a continuum within a given population, with higher fasting glucose levels corresponding to a higher risk for complications caused by the high glucose levels.
Impaired fasting glucose (IFG), more commonly known as pre-diabetes refers to a condition in which the fasting blood glucose level is consistently elevated above what is considered normal levels; however, it is not high enough to be diagnosed as diabetes mellitus. Fasting blood glucose levels are in a continuum within a given population, with higher fasting glucose levels corresponding to a higher risk for complications caused by the high glucose levels.
Impaired Glucose Tolerance. Impaired Glucose Tolerance means that blood glucose is raised beyond normal levels. Impaired glucose tolerance means that blood glucose is raised beyond normal levels, but not high enough to warrant a diabetes diagnosis. With impaired glucose tolerance you face a much greater risk of developing diabetes and cardiovascular disease. 
Impaired fasting glycemia occurs when blood glucose levels in the body are elevated during periods of fasting, but not enough to prompt a diagnosis of diabetes. Effectively, a person with impaired fasting glycemia isn’t able to process glucose as efficiently as they should be able to. Impaired fasting glycemia (IFG) means that the body cannot regulate glucose as efficiently as it should be able to. Glucose is usually carried around the body where it is absorbed and made into energy. Insulin regulates the concentration of glucose in the blood.
Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) is a pre-diabetic state of hyperglycemia that is associated with insulin resistance and increased risk of cardiovascular pathology. IGT may precede type 2 diabetes mellitus by many years. IGT is also a risk factor for mortality. 
This pre-diabetic state is associated with insulin resistance and increased risk of cardiovascular pathology, although of lesser risk than impaired glucose tolerance (IGT). IFG can progress to type 2 diabetes mellitus if lifestyle changes are not made. There is a 50% risk over 10 years of progressing to overt diabetes. Fasting blood glucose levels are in a continuum within a given population, with higher fasting glucose levels corresponding to a higher risk for complications caused by the high glucose levels.
Impaired glucose tolerance: Introduction. Prediabetes is a condition that is marked by high blood sugar levels. IN prediabetes, blood sugar levels, also called glucose levels, are higher than normal, but not considered high enough to qualify as type 2 diabetes.
Impaired glucose tolerance: Impaired Glucose Tolerance (IGT) means you have some problems with your sugar processing, but you don't (yet) have full diabetes. It is almost a pre-diabetes disease and seems very similar to a very mild form of Type 2 diabetes. Prediabetes is a condition that is marked by high blood sugar levels. IN prediabetes, blood sugar levels, also called glucose levels, are higher than normal, but not considered high enough to qualify as t
Impaired glucose tolerance is defined as two-hour glucose levels of 140 to 199 mg per dL (7.8 to 11.0 mmol) on the 75-g oral glucose tolerance test, and impaired fasting glucose is defined as glucose levels of 100 to 125 mg per dL (5.6 to 6.9 mmol per L) in fasting patients. When the diagnosis of impaired glucose tolerance or impaired fasting glucose is made, physicians should counsel patients to lose 5 to 7 percent of their body weight and engage in moderate physical activity for at least 150 minutes per week.