Edit a blocked file. You can make changes in the File Block area of the Trust Center that will let you open, edit, and save your blocked file. Click File Options. Click Trust Center Trust Center Settings File Block Settings. Check the Open selected file types in Protected View and allow editing box. Top of Page. View or modify File Block settings in the Trust Center. Open an Office program. Click File Options. Click Trust Center Trust Center Settings File Block Settings. In the File Type list, check or uncheck Open or Save for the file types you want to block or enable. Note You can’t check Open without checking Save.
If you are an experienced user who is annoyed by the protected view, you can always disable it even though it is not recommended by Microsoft. Open MS Word 2010, go to File Menu(Office Backstage) and select Options. Select Trust Center from the left sidebar and then click Trust Center Settings button in the main window. Now in Trust Center dialog window, select Protected View from the left sidebar and disable protected view for any desired option.
You may find that the numbers displayed in your Volatility Backup XLS do not match the numbers in Corporate Focus. This mis-display of numbers is due to the “Protected View” setting within Microsoft Excel. All Microsoft Office files downloaded from the Internet (and Corporate Focus) are “blocked” by default. 
There are two ways to get to the settings that determine when Protected View is automatically invoked. If you open a document in Protected View, you can click on File, Info, and then choose Protected View Settings as shown in Figure 2. Figure 2: The Info option in Excel 2010 and 2013 allows easy access to Protected View settings. Alternatively, you can carry out the steps shown in Figure 3, which are more involved: 1  Choose File, and then Options. 2  Within the Options window, choose Trust Center, and then click the Trust Center Settings button. Figure 3: You can also access the Protected View settings through Excel's Options dialog box. Thirty-two-bit versions of Excel 2010 offer an additional check box labeled Enable Data Execution Prevention Mode. This option was removed from Excel 2013 and does not appear in 64-bit versions of Excel 2010.
As you migrate to Excel 2010 or 2013, you may sometimes encounter spreadsheets that open in a special Protected View mode. You can view-but not edit-such documents until you grant permission within an onscreen prompt. I'll explain Protected View and how you can adjust this security measure to suit your needs. Figure 3: You can also access the Protected View settings through Excel's Options dialog box. Thirty-two-bit versions of Excel 2010 offer an additional check box labeled Enable Data Execution Prevention Mode. This option was removed from Excel 2013 and does not appear in 64-bit versions of Excel 2010.
These settings do not apply if File Block settings force the file to open in Protected View. Also, these settings do not apply if a file fails Office File Validation. You can configure each of these settings on a per-application basis for Excel 2013, PowerPoint 2013, and Word 2013. You can change Protected View settings so that certain files bypass Protected View. To do so, disable the following settings in the Trust Center: You can find the trust center settings in Office applications by going to File Options Trust Center Trust Center Settings.
By selecting the second or third option, you can force blocked file types to open in Protected View. You can configure File Block settings only on a per-application basis for Excel 2013, PowerPoint 2013, and Word 2013. For more information about File Block settings, see Plan file block settings for Office 2013. You can change Protected View settings so that certain files bypass Protected View. To do so, disable the following settings in the Trust Center: You can find the trust center settings in Office applications by going to File Options Trust Center Trust Center Settings.
Use File Block to force Office 2013 files to open in Protected View. The File Block feature lets you prevent users from opening or saving certain file types. When you use File Block settings to block a file type, you can choose one of three file block actions: Blocked and not allowed to open. You can change Protected View settings so that certain files bypass Protected View. To do so, disable the following settings in the Trust Center: You can find the trust center settings in Office applications by going to File Options Trust Center Trust Center Settings.
Click for more details. , you chose to open the file in Protected View. This can be done by using the Open in Protected View option: Click File Open. On the Open dialog box, click the arrow next to the Open button. From the list, click Open in Protected View. Important Administrators can extend the list of potentially unsafe locations to include additional folders also considered unsafe.