Depending on the situation, it may actually be beneficial for her to terminate the contract too. Any contract can be terminated if both parties agree to the termination. For example, if you have decided that you do not want to sell your home, then the broker will almost always agree to cancel the contract.
A contract may be terminated if certain conditions have changed since the contract was created. Some contracts may also be voided if the contract was never legal in the first place. If you decide to terminate a contract, you should make sure that the termination will result in the least amount of damages for you.
And if you have an express written contract with an employee and you want to terminate that employee, you must follow what the contract says. Contracts will either list reasons for which the employee can be fired or simply state that an employee can be terminated only for good cause.
A contract is a legal document that binds at least two parties to one another. A contract requires one or both parties meet obligations detailed in the contract before it is completed. In some instances, contract termination can occur that will make the contract void of legal binding.
Contracts are legally binding, but can be terminated under certain conditions. If you've signed a contract with a real estate broker, you are not necessarily stuck with that agent for the full duration indicated on the contract.
Ways in which Contracts may be Terminated. Contracts may be brought to an end: (a) By performance of the parties i.e. each party completing his obligations as stipulated by the contract. (b) By frustration i.e. an event through no fault of the parties that make one party unable to perform
The government can terminate a contract for their convenience, or in the case of most contracts in excess of $25,000, for default when the government believes that a contractor failed to perform in accordance with the provisions of the contract.
Prior Agreement. You may terminate a contract if you and the other party have a prior written agreement that calls for a contract termination because of a specific reason. The agreement must give the details of what qualifies as a reason for contract termination.