Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 2  Roll out bottom pie crust, press into a 10 inch pie pan, and set aside. 3  Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a large skillet over medium heat; add the onion, celery, carrots, parsley, oregano, and salt and pepper. 4  Cook and stir until the vegetables are soft. 1 Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 2  Roll out bottom pie crust, press into a 10 inch pie pan, and set aside. 3  Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a large skillet over medium heat; add the onion, celery, carrots, parsley, oregano, and salt and pepper.
1 Stir in the turkey and flour. 2  Add the milk, and heat through. 3  Stir the turkey mixture into the vegetable mixture, and cook until thickened. 4  Cool slightly, then pour mixture into the unbaked pie shell. 5  Roll out the top crust, and place on top of filling. 6  Flute edges, and make 4 slits in the top crust to let out steam. 1 Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 2  Roll out bottom pie crust, press into a 10 inch pie pan, and set aside. 3  Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a large skillet over medium heat; add the onion, celery, carrots, parsley, oregano, and salt and pepper. 4  Cook and stir until the vegetables are soft
1 Add the milk, and heat through. 2  Stir the turkey mixture into the vegetable mixture, and cook until thickened. 3  Cool slightly, then pour mixture into the unbaked pie shell. 4  Roll out the top crust, and place on top of filling. 5  Flute edges, and make 4 slits in the top crust to let out steam. 1 Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 2  Roll out bottom pie crust, press into a 10 inch pie pan, and set aside. 3  Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a large skillet over medium heat; add the onion, celery, carrots, parsley, oregano, and salt and pepper. 4  Cook and stir until the vegetables are soft
1 Return the crust to the oven: Return the crust to the oven. 2  Bake until the bottom looks dry, another 5 minutes. 3  If the pie will not be cooked again with the filling, bake for another few minutes until the edges of the crust have browned and the bottom is lightly golden. 1 If the pie will not be cooked again with the filling, bake for another few minutes until the edges of the crust have browned and the bottom is lightly golden. 2  The bottom crust will puff a bit as it bakes, but will deflate again when you remove the pie from the oven.
1 Bake until the edges are barely golden: Place the pie on the baking sheet and bake until the edges of the crust are just starting to turn golden, 12 to 15 minutes. 2  Remove the crust from the oven. 3  Remove the pie weights: Grasp the corners of the parchment (or foil), and lift the weights out of the pie. 1 If the pie will not be cooked again with the filling, bake for another few minutes until the edges of the crust have browned and the bottom is lightly golden. 2  The bottom crust will puff a bit as it bakes, but will deflate again when you remove the pie
4) Put the pie plate on the preheated baking sheet and reduce the oven temp to 400. Bake until the edges of the crust are starting to turn golden and the bottom of the crust has lost its translucent “raw” look, 10 to 12 minutes (carefully pull up the edge of the foil to take a peek). If you’re making a cream pie or refrigerated pie, bake it until the entire crust is golden brown, about 15 minutes longer. 6) Remove the pie shell from the oven. To help prevent soggy pie or quiche crusts, brush the inside of the crust with egg wash (1 egg beaten with 1 tablespoon water) to create a seal.
Preheat the oven to 425F. Bake the crust for 20 minutes, then remove it from the oven and take out the pie weights and the aluminum foil liner. Lower the oven temperature to 375F. Return the pie to the oven to bake for an additional 15 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown. Remove from the oven and cool completely before using. I prefer to have a deep golden brown on my crust. The crust can be baked a day in advance, cooled completely and wrapped with saran wrap for use the next day
Directions. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Melt butter in saucepan and cook chopped onion until tender. Stir in celery and carrots and cook for 2 minutes. Stir in flour and cook for 2 minutes. Add chicken stock and bring to a simmer. Add potatoes and simmer until tender. Stir in turkey, parsley and peas. Pour mixture into casserole. Top with pie crust and brush with egg. Bake for 30 minutes until crust is golden