Diazepam is the generic name for Valium, a prescription drug doctors prescribe to treat symptoms of anxiety disorders. Anxiety disorders include generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , panic disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) .
The most commonly reported symptoms of Valium withdrawal are sleep disturbances, depression, and higher sensitivity to the senses. As the central nervous system withdraws from diazepam, the body experiences the sensations of the world more acutely and can cause increased feelings of anxiety and emotional disturbance.
If you stop taking Valium suddenly after taking it for a long time, you may have withdrawal symptoms including anxiety, irritability, and trouble sleeping. Valium is intended for short-term use. Because it may be habit-forming, it's not recommended that people take it for longer than four months.
Valium (diazepam) is a medication belonging to the drug class benzodiazepine. Valium is available as a generic drug. Valium is prescribed for the treatment of anxiety, seizures, muscle spasms, and symptoms of alcohol withdrawal.
The withdrawal symptoms are often typified by sleep disturbance, anxiety, panic attacks, memory problems, dry retching and nausea, hallucinations, seizures, psychosis and possibly suicide. If these effects are experienced, then contact a Valium rehabilitation program for assistance to begin healing.
Once an addiction to Valium is developed, the side effects can be very difficult to tolerate. Some of the symptoms experienced include dry retching, psychosis, slurred speech, panic attacks, hallucinations, increased risk of suicide, aggression and impaired coordination.
Valium. Valium side effects, warnings, precautions, adverse effects, overdose, withdrawal symptoms and Valium natural alternatives. Before you begin the spiral down with this drug, try giving your body what it really wants.
1 A typical adult dose of Valium to treat alcohol withdrawal may be 10 mg three to four times a day for 24 hours followed by 5 mg taken three to four times a day as needed. 2  A typical adult dose of Valium to treat muscle spasms may range from 2 to 10 mg three to four times a day.
Valium is a benzodiazepine prescribed by medical doctors and psychiatrists to treat anxiety and panic attacks. It is also used as a muscle relaxant and sedative. It replaces chemicals normally produced in the brain to slow down abnormally fast electrical activity.