Self-Referral is referral by a physician to an entity with which the physician or a member of the physician's family has a financial relationship. The relationship is such that the physician would earn a financial return based on the success of, for example, a speech and hearing clinic in which the physician invested. 
A specialist will only see you with a letter of referral from your GP. The letter will give the specialist essential background information, such as your medical history, and it will also contain details for the specialist to pay particular attention to. 
(February 2010). Physician self-referral is a term describing the practice of a physician ordering tests on a patient and that are performed by either the referring physician himself or a fellow faculty member from whom he receives financial compensation in return for the referral. The incentive for this practice is largely the result of rapidly declining reimbursements for what has been termed cognitive physician care, i.e. the time spent talking to a patient and determining what course of diagnostic testing or treatment would be best.
Historically, self-referral described the normal practice of a physician diagnosing a patient and then treating that individual if the treatment was within the that doctor's scope of practice. The incentive for this practice is largely the result of rapidly declining reimbursements for what has been termed cognitive physician care, i.e. the time spent talking to a patient and determining what course of diagnostic testing or treatment would be best.
Self-referral. Self-referral is recognising that you are in need of health care and booking an appointment with your GP to get it sorted out. If you have children and you work, you might refer yourself to a local nursery so you can use its services. Professional referral. This type of referral happens when your doctor sends you to the hospital to have an x-ray, for example. Put simply, it is whenever a trained professional recommends you to make an appointment with another health care employee. Sometimes, as with the example of the x-ray given above, the doctors may actually make the appointment themselves. 1  Obtaining care services. 2  Self-referral and professional referral
self-referral. Physician self-referral Health industry The referral by a physician to a health facility–eg, imaging center at which he/she has a financial interest, but no professional responsibility. See Fee-splitting, Joint venture, Kickback, 'Safe harbor' rules. Cf Physician referral, Referral. 
We also have published other proposed and final rules that affect physician self-referral. Examples include: the proposed and final rules to include nuclear medicine within existing DHS categories and a proposed and final rule related to electronic prescribing technology and electronic health records technology. CMS has published a number of regulations interpreting the physician self-referral statute. In 1995, we published a final rule with comment period incorporating into regulations the physician self-referral prohibition as it applied to clinical laboratory services.
Direct access and self-referral means that patients are able to refer themselves to a physical therapist without having to see anyone else first, or without being told to refer themselves by another health professional. Reference: Department of Health (2008) Self-referral pilots to musculoskeletal physiotherapy and the implications for improving access to other AHP services.