The permissible exposure limit (PEL or OSHA PEL) is a legal limit in the United States for exposure of an employee to a chemical substance or physical agent. For chemicals, the chemical regulation is usually expressed in parts per million (ppm), or sometimes in milligrams per cubic meter (mg/m 3). A short-term exposure limit is one that addresses the average exposure over a 15-30 minute period of maximum exposure during a single work shift.
For airborne exposures, there are three types of limits in common use: 1  the time-weighted average (TWA) exposure limit-the maximum average concentration of a chemical in air for a normal 8-hour working day and 40-hour week; The legal basis for the preparation of occupational exposure limits and biological limits in the European Union is contained in Directive 98/24/EC on chemical agents and Directive 2004/37/EC on carcinogens and mutagens.
Excursion limits are enforced in some states (for example Oregon) and on the federal level for certain contaminants such as asbestos. A short-term exposure limit is one that addresses the average exposure over a 15-30 minute period of maximum exposure during a single work shift. A ceiling limit is one that may not be exceeded for any period of time, and is applied to irritants and other materials that have immediate effect
The threshold limit value (TLV) of a chemical substance is a level to which it is believed a worker can be exposed day after day for a working lifetime without adverse health effects. 1 Threshold limit value-Time weighted average (TLV-TWA): average exposure on the basis of a 8h/day, 40h/week work schedule.
OSHA recognizes that many of its permissible exposure limits (PELs) are outdated and inadequate for ensuring protection of worker health. Most of OSHA’s PELs were issued shortly after adoption of the Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Act in 1970, and have not been updated since that time. OSHA’s Hazard Communication standard (1910. 1200 Appendix D) requires that safety data sheets list not only the relevant OSHA PEL but also the ACGIH ® TLV ® and any other exposure limit used or recommended by the chemical manufacturer, importer, or employer preparing the safety data sheet.
The exposure assessment is initiated by selecting the appropriate exposure limit averaging time and decision statistic for the agent. Typically the statistic for deciding acceptable exposure is chosen to be the majority (90%, 95% or 99%) of all exposures to be below the selected occupational exposure limit. 1 Threshold limit value-Time weighted average (TLV-TWA): average exposure on the basis of a 8h/day, 40h/week work schedule.
1 the time-weighted average (TWA) exposure limit-the maximum average concentration of a chemical in air for a normal 8-hour working day and 40-hour week; 2  the short-term exposure limit (STEL) - the maximum average concentration to which workers can be exposed for a short period (usually 15 minutes); The legal basis for the preparation of occupational exposure limits and biological limits in the European Union is contained in Directive 98/24/EC on chemical agents and Directive 2004/37/EC on carcinogens and mutagens.
1 the short-term exposure limit (STEL) - the maximum average concentration to which workers can be exposed for a short period (usually 15 minutes); 2  the ceiling value-the concentration that should not be exceeded at any time. The legal basis for the preparation of occupational exposure limits and biological limits in the European Union is contained in Directive 98/24/EC on chemical agents and Directive 2004/37/EC on carcinogens and mutagens.
In Alberta, exposure limits are listed in the Chemical Hazards Regulation (Alberta Regulation 393/88). In British Columbia, exposure limits are generally determined with reference to the Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) adopted by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH). The legal basis for the preparation of occupational exposure limits and biological limits in the European Union is contained in Directive 98/24/EC on chemical agents and Directive 2004/37/EC on carcinogens and mutagens.