Tectonics and Landforms Plate Boundaries Along the boundary of the Earth's tectonic plates a fiery drama of catastrophic proportions is played out. Movement of the Earth's crust creates earthquake activity and in some places great outpourings of lava extrude onto the surface. A spreading or divergent boundary occurs where plates are moving away (diverging) from one another, like that occuring along the midocean ridge where new crust is formed. Convergent boundaries are located where subduction is active and the lithosphere is being consumed.
Unique landforms are created at plates margins. There are four types of landforms created at plate margins: fold mountains, ocean trenches, composite volcanoes and shield volcanoes. Fold mountains are created at two types of plate boundary. 1  At destructive boundaries: where an oceanic and a continental plate moving together. 2  At collision boundaries: where two continental plates moving togther. Shield volcanoes are found at constructive plate boundaries. As the two plates move apart magma rises up from the mantle. It then rises up through a vent forming a volcano. 1  Shield volcanoes have a wide base and gently sloping sides.
In the theory of plate tectonics, the earth's crust is broken into plates that move around relative to each other. As a result of this movement, three types of plate boundaries are formed: divergent, convergent, and transform boundaries. To recap, there are three types of plate boundaries that are formed by the interactions of different plates. Divergent boundaries are boundaries where plates pull away from each other, forming mild earthquakes and volcanoes as magma comes to the surface.
Constructive or Divergent Margins. At these types of plate margins two plates are moving apart (DIVERGE) from each other in opposite directions. Convection currents moving in opposite directions (caused by the intense heat of the Earth's interior) in the mantle move two plates apart. Processes: seismicity and vulcanicity. Associated landforms: young fold mountains, rift valleys, ocean ridges, deep sea trenches and island arcs. . Volcanoes and earthquakes mainly occur along plate boundaries where magma can escape from the earth s mantle or where stresses build up between 2 plates rubbing together.
Landforms at Plate Margins. There are 2 main types of landform that occur at plate boundaries (in addition to volcanoes but information on these can be found here). These are fold mountains and ocean trenches. Fold Mountains. Fold mountains occur at collision plate boundaries where 2 pieces of continental crust meet
In plate tectonics, a divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. At divergent boundaries, two plates move apart from each other and the space that this creates is filled with new crustal material sourced from molten magma that forms below. The origin of new divergent boundaries at triple junctions is sometimes thought to be associated with the phenomenon known as hotspots.
Constructive plate boundary. A constructive plate boundary, sometimes called a divergent plate margin, occurs when plates move apart. Volcanoes are formed as magma wells up to fill the gap, and eventually new crust is formed. An example of a constructive plate boundary is the mid-Atlantic Ridge. 
Fold mountains, ocean trenches, mid ocean ridges, shield volcanoes and composite volcanoes. There are 4 basic landforms that you need to know found at plate boundaries. These are fold mountains, mid ocean ridges, ocean trenches and types of volcano. The differences between volcano types can be found here. 