Butter is made from animal fat and is a concentrated source of saturated fat – five grams per two teaspoon serving versus two grams or less found in most margarines. (The small amount of trans fat in butter – 0.2 grams per two teaspoons – is naturally occurring. If you like butter but don’t want all the saturated fat, try a light butter or a spreadable butter. Lactantia light butter has 25 per cent less fat than regular butter. Gay Lea’s Spreadables butter is made with canola oil, which reduces its saturated fat content to 3.5 grams per serving.
Becel® products are actually made with vegetable oils (canola, sunflower or olive). Each type of Becel® is non-hydrogenated, contains no trans fat and is low in saturated fat. Margarine Myth. Margarine was invented to fatten up turkeys. 
Margarine is made from vegetable oil, so it does not contain cholesterol. It’s also higher in heart-healthy unsaturated fats – polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats – than butter. When substituted for saturated fat (found in animal foods), unsaturated fats can help to lower LDL (bad) cholesterol in the blood. If you like butter but don’t want all the saturated fat, try a light butter or a spreadable butter. Lactantia light butter has 25 per cent less fat than regular butter. Gay Lea’s Spreadables butter is made with canola oil, which reduces its saturated fat content to 3.5 grams per serving.
The type of fat found in butter and margarine is what makes these two products different from each other. Margarine contains plant-based fats, and butter is made from dairy fat. Many margarines used to contain trans fat, which is a hydrogenated fat that significantly boosts your risk for heart disease. The Difference Between Butter and Margarine. Butter and margarine taste a lot alike, and are very similar nutritionally. The main difference between butter and margarine is the type of fat that's found in these two products.
Margarine usually tops butter when it comes to heart health. Margarine is made from vegetable oils, so it contains unsaturated good fats — polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats. These types of fats help reduce low-density lipoprotein (LDL), or bad, cholesterol when substituted for saturated fat. Butter, on the other hand, is made from animal fat, so it contains more saturated fat. But not all margarines are created equal — some margarines contain trans fat. In general, the more solid the margarine, the more trans fat it contains. So stick margarines usually have more trans fat than tub margarines do.
How is margarine made? A lot of thought, a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of good stuff goes into margarine. By and large, the list of ingredients in margarine isn't, well ... large. First, you've got oil and water. That's your base.
(February 2012). Becel is a brand of margarine produced by Unilever and sold in a number of countries, including Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Israel, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Sweden, and Turkey. Cooking oil, pot yogurt and yogurt drinks are some of the non-margarine products launched by Unilever under the Becel/Flora brand, all of which are designed to help lower blood cholesterol level.
In recent years the Becel/Flora brand has been extended to products other than margarine. Cooking oil, pot yogurt and yogurt drinks are some of the non-margarine products launched by Unilever under the Becel/Flora brand, all of which are designed to help lower blood cholesterol level.
Butter contains a lot of artery-clogging saturated fat, and margarine contains an unhealthy combination of saturated and trans fats, so the healthiest choice is to skip both of them and use liquid oils, such as olive, canola and safflower oil, instead. Pros: Butter is generally natural, made from just one or two ingredients: cream, and sometimes salt. Cons: Cream – also known as milk fat – contains both saturated fat and cholesterol, the two dietary ingredients that raise blood cholesterol and increase the risk of heart and vascular diseases.
Stick margarine. Pros: Margarine is much lower in saturated fat than butter, and it is made from vegetable oils, so it contains no cholesterol. Cons: Although it is lower in saturated fat, stick margarine still contains about the same amount of total fat and calories as butter. Pros: Butter is generally natural, made from just one or two ingredients: cream, and sometimes salt. Cons: Cream – also known as milk fat – contains both saturated fat and cholesterol, the two dietary ingredients that raise blood cholesterol and increase the risk of heart and vascular diseases.