Psychotherapy is a service provided by a trained psychotherapist in an effort to recognize and treat mental, emotional and behavioral disorders in their clients by psychological means. The process utilizes various forms of interaction and communication to accomplish this goal. The treatment may be for an individual, a family unit of a group. The approach is also called talk therapy. PSYCHOTHERAPY: Although she had her doubts, Laura found that psychotherapy was helping her in her everyday life.. No related posts.
Medical Definition of PSYCHOTHERAPY. 1. : treatment of mental or emotional disorder or maladjustment by psychological means especially involving verbal communication (as in psychoanalysis, nondirective psychotherapy, reeducation, or hypnosis). 2. Full Definition of PSYCHOTHERAPY. : treatment of mental or emotional disorder or of related bodily ills by psychological means. — psy·cho·ther·a·pist \-pist\ noun. See psychotherapy defined for English-language learners. See psychotherapy defined for kids
Psychoanalysis is a set of psychological and psychotherapeutic theories and associated techniques, created by Austrian physician Sigmund Freud and stemming partly from the clinical work of Josef Breuer and others. Over time, psychoanalysis has been revised and developed in different directions. 
psychotherapy. the science or method of treating psychological abnormalities and disorders by psychological techniques, especially by psychoanalysis, group therapy, or consultation. — psychotherapist, n. — psychotherapeutic, adj. the science or method of treating psychological abnormalities or disorders by psychological techniques. The treatment of mental and emotional disorders through the use of psychological techniques designed to encourage communication of conflicts and insight into problems, with the goal being relief of symptoms, changes in behavior leading to improved social and vocational functioning, and personality growth.
Psychoanalysis is a form of psychotherapy used by qualified psychotherapists to treat patients who have a range of mild to moderate chronic life problems. In both psychoanalysis and psychoanalytic psychotherapy, the therapist does not tell the patient how to solve problems or offer moral judgments. The focus of treatment is exploration of the patient's mind and habitual thought patterns. Such therapy is termed non-directed..
Noun. 1. psychotherapy-the branch of psychiatry concerned with psychological methods. mental hygiene, psychotherapeutics. psychiatry, psychological medicine, psychopathology-the branch of medicine dealing with the diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders. The treatment of mental and emotional disorders through the use of psychological techniques designed to encourage communication of conflicts and insight into problems, with the goal being relief of symptoms, changes in behavior leading to improved social and vocational functioning, and personality growth.
Definition. Family therapy is a type of psychological counseling (psychotherapy) that helps family members improve communication and resolve conflicts. Family therapy is usually provided by a psychologist, clinical social worker or licensed therapist