Alcohol is metabolized at a different rate in each person, but there are some factors that play a role in how long alcohol stays in your system. The body can metabolize about one drink per hour, which is the equivalent of the following: 1  One can of beer or a 12-ounce glass. 2  Five ounces of wine. 
Report Abuse. The body metabolizes alcohol at the rate of one half ounce per hour. one ounce = 1 beer 1 glass of wine 1 shot of booze For example: if you drink 7 Beers, you will have alcohol in your blood up to 14 hours after you drank beer number 7. Size and weight have NOTHING to do with the rate at which alcohol metabolizes. The time indicated by Matt is the MINIMUM amount of time it would take to metabolize that much alcohol; the time will vary from person to person, but in ALL instances it will NEVER take LESS time than that. The maximum metabolization rate is fixed and CANNOT be increased.
Regardless of size or gender, though, the .016 metabolic rate is a constant. So if you are trying to remove all the alcohol from your system, refer to the chart featured on this page to understand alcohol metabolism rates and how long different BAC levels take to wear off. 
Healthy people metabolize alcohol at a fairly consistent rate. As a rule of thumb, a person will eliminate one average drink or .5 oz (15 ml) of alcohol per hour. Several factors influence this rate. The rate of elimination tends to be higher when the blood alcohol concentration in the body is very high.
Other enzymes— The enzymes cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) and catalase also break down alcohol to acetaldehyde. However, CYP2E1 only is active after a person has consumed large amounts of alcohol, and catalase metabolizes only a small fraction of alcohol in the body (1). Regardless of how much a person consumes, the body can only metabolize a certain amount of alcohol every hour (2). That amount varies widely among individuals and depends on a range of factors, including liver size (1) and body mass.
One serving of alcohol is fully absorbed into the blood stream within 30 minutes to 2 hours after intake. This is because the body can metabolize about 0.25 ounces of alcohol per hour. However, the effects of alcohol vary by individual and by how much alcohol they drink in one session. However, 20 drinks is a negligible amount of alcohol in your system and even this amount of alcohol in your bloodstream is not detectable after 24 hours. Check out the BAC calculator above to calculate different drink combinations within a 24 hour period.
The maximum rate at which the human body metabolizes alcohol is 0.015% per hour. The time indicated by Matt is the MINIMUM amount of time it would take to metabolize that much alcohol; the time will vary from person to person, but in ALL instances it will NEVER take LESS time than that. The maximum metabolization rate is fixed and CANNOT be increased.
Your body can't store alcohol, so it must metabolize it right away. When you drink alcohol, your body makes metabolizing it a priority over all other metabolic processes. Your body sends alcohol to the liver, which produces the enzymes necessary for the oxidation and metabolism of alcohol. Not only does alcohol not contain any nutrients of its own, but it can impair your body's ability to absorb nutrients and vitamins from the food you eat. Alcohol irritates your gastrointestinal tract, and can damage your body's ability to absorb nutrients, vitamins and minerals from the food you eat. Alcohol and Your Liver. Alcohol is toxic to your liver, and if you drink heavily for a long time you can experience cirrhosis of the liver and death.
Figure 1 Oxidative pathways of alcohol metabolism. The enzymes alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1), and catalase all contribute to oxidative metabolism of alcohol. ADH, present in the fluid of the cell (i.e., cytosol), converts alcohol (i.e., ethanol) to acetaldehyde. From there it is carried to the liver, where it is exposed to enzymes and metabolized. The rate of the rise of BAC is influenced by how quickly alcohol is emptied from the stomach and the extent of metabolism during this first pass through the stomach and liver (i.e., first-pass metabolism [FPM]).
BAC goes down at a slow and predictable rate. This is because your liver can only metabolize a predictable blood alcohol concentration per hour. The normal body will metabolize between .015 percent and .020 percent BAC per hour. We use a conservative .016 percent BAC per hour in the following charts. 