What processes does the liver undergo to remove toxins? The liver is the largest gland in the body and is located in the upper right quadrant of the abdomen. The liver is an important organ that performs many functions necessary for survival. The liver breaks nutrients down and builds up body tissue. The liver also acts as a storage site for vitamins and minerals. Glycogen is produced in the liver and is regulated throughout the body. The liver is vital when it comes to metabolic processes and how it affects other organs and the body, including hormonal concentration levels and disposal of toxins.
What organs are involved in digestion? Many organs are involved in the digestive process (see the diagram on the left). First, food enters the body via the mouth, where saliva from the salivary gland begins to break down carbohydrates. Next, the food goes down the food tube, the esophagus, pushed by muscular contractions.
Gas exchange is the process by which oxygen and carbon dioxide (the respiratory gases) move in opposite directions across an organism's respiratory membranes, between the air or water of the external environment and the body fluids of the internal environment. 
Other systems and organs in the body also play a part in excretion. The respiratory system eliminates water vapor and carbon dioxide through exhalation (the process of breathing out). The digestive system removes feces, the solid undigested wastes of digestion, by a process called defecation or elimination. The skin also acts as an organ of excretion by removing water and small amounts of urea and salts (as sweat).
The main organs involved in the digestive system are the mouth, stomach, liver, pancreas, small intestine, and large intestine. 3 people found this useful. 
(Answer #1). Human excretion is the process of removing excess water, waste material and harmful substances fro human body. The organs involved in human excretion are listed below. 1  Skin: It removes excess water,salt ans some other substances from the body. 2  It also removes excess heat from the body. 3  Lungs: These remove carbon dioxide and some moisture from the body. 4  Kidneys: It removes many different waste material and harmful substances
Confidence votes 9. Excretory System OrgansOrgans that compose the excretory system are those involved in removal of wastes from the body. They include the kidneys, sweat glands, lungs, and rectum, but their primary organs are the kidneys. Other excretory organs are-LUNGS for Respiration-KIDNEY for Osmoregulation,it is also very related to the SKIN because it sends the Sweat to the sweat pores. -LIVER excretes excess salts The three organs involved are the kidneys, liver, and bladder.
The excretory system is a system of organs that removes waste products from the body. When cells in the body break down proteins (large molecules that are essential to the structure and functioning of all living cells), they produce wastes such as urea (a chemical compound of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen). The digestive system removes feces, the solid undigested wastes of digestion, by a process called defecation or elimination. The skin also acts as an organ of excretion by removing water and small amounts of urea and salts (as sweat).
A Broader Opinion   There are several organs that are involved in the process of excretion; the pores of the skin that excrete oil and sweat, the lungs which excrete carb … on dioxide, the rectum via the anal canal and anus that excretes feces, and the urinary tract which excretes urine via the urethra. Other excretory organs are-LUNGS for Respiration-KIDNEY for Osmoregulation,it is also very related to the SKIN because it sends the Sweat to the sweat pores. -LIVER excretes excess salts The three organs involved are the kidneys, liver, and bladder.