Garlic-Mushroom Rib Eyes - 4 servings 4 boneless rib eye steaks (1 thick) 1/4 tsp. pepper 1/8 tsp. salt 4 tbsp. butter; divided 4 to 8 garlic cloves; peeled and sliced 1 lb. sliced fresh mushrooms 3 tbsp. beef broth Sprinkle steaks with pepper and salt. In a large skillet, melt 1 tbsp. of the butter. Cook steaks for 2 minutes on each side or until meat reaches desired doneness; remove and keep warm. In same skillet, cook garlic in 1 tbsp. of the butter for 2 minutes; remove garlic and set aside. Add mushrooms and remaining butter to skillet; saute 5 minutes; stir in broth. 
The best rib eye steak for grilling over wood coals to rare or medium-rare is a USDA Prime-or Choice-Grade, cut to between 1.5 and 1.8 thick. A 1 cut is too thin and a 2.5 or thicker cut, especially if Prime Grade, will usually not hold its shape unless it is cooked to medium. Filet mignon steak. The filet mignon steak is a tenderloin steak which is cut from the small end of the tenderloin. Of course, it is boneless and is the most expensive cut of meat. It is usually cut 1 to 2 thick and is usually 1 1/2 to 2 in diameter.
1 Purchase ribeye steaks that is at least 1-inch to 1-1/2 inches thick, with bright red color and abundant marbling. 2  Bring steak to room temperature — removing from the refrigerator at least 2 hours prior to cooking. 3  This will prevent over-charring or taking too long to cook. 4  Season with salt and pepper. How to grill a perfect ribeye steak. 1  Purchase ribeye steaks that is at least 1-inch to 1-1/2 inches thick, with bright red color and abundant marbling. 2  Bring steak to room temperature — removing from the refrigerator at least 2 hours prior to cooking. 3  This will prevent over-charring or taking too long to cook
1 Start with the right cut (I prefer ribeye). 2  Check for marbling (you want plenty of intramuscular fat). 3  Buy a thick steak (at least 1 1/2 to 2 inches). 4  Bone in or boneless, it doesn't make a difference—this is totally a matter of personal choice (I prefer bone-in). 1 Buy a thick steak (at least 1 1/2 to 2 inches). 2  Bone in or boneless, it doesn't make a difference—this is totally a matter of personal choice (I prefer bone-in). 3  Get dry aged beef (unless you don't enjoy the extra tenderness or slightly funky flavor of dry-aged meat).
Ribeyes. The 16 oz. Ribeye for Steak Lovers! Thick cut and well-marbled, each steak guarantees robust juicy flavor. Ribeyes are cut from the center of the Prime Rib and are a favorite for grill masters.To learn about the different Steakhouse Cuts – click on the video below. Play Video.
My preference for this cut is to be a minimum of 1.5 inches thick, but 2-2.5 inches is best on the bone, Cowboy Style...a steak for two of sorts. I season liberally, sear and finish in the oven...depending on thickness, between 8-12 minutes for medium-rare temperature at 425*. When its really hot, drop the steak in the skillet and let cook (do not touch) for at least 2 minutes and then flip and leave alone for another 2 minutes. Depending how thick the steaks are or how much you like it cooked, at this point you may have to finish in a hot oven, like 450 deg, until the desired doneness.
A steak means simply any meat which is cut across the muscle into a thick slice, with or without bone, and which is intended to be cooked quickly by broiling or otherwise. Most often, the word refers to a high-quality cut of meat, such a prime-or choice-grade tenderloin or rib-eye cut. Filet mignon steak. The filet mignon steak is a tenderloin steak which is cut from the small end of the tenderloin. Of course, it is boneless and is the most expensive cut of meat. It is usually cut 1 to 2 thick and is usually 1 1/2 to 2 in diameter.