Food intolerance (or non-allergic food hypersensitivity) is a detrimental reaction, often delayed, to a food, beverage, food additive, or compound found in foods that produces symptoms in one or more body organs and systems, but generally refers to reactions other than food allergy. 
Lactose intolerance is not an allergy, because it is not an immune response, but rather a sensitivity to dairy caused by lactase deficiency. Milk allergy, occurring in only 4% of the population, is a separate condition, with distinct symptoms that occur when the presence of milk proteins trigger an immune reaction. Lactose intolerance is the inability of adults and children to digest lactose, a sugar found in milk and to a lesser extent dairy products, causing side effects. It is due to a lactase deficiency, or hypolactasia
Lactose intolerance is the inability to digest lactose, the sugar primarily found in milk and dairy products. It is caused by a shortage in the body of lactase, an enzyme produced by the small intestine, which is needed to digest lactose. While lactose intolerance is not dangerous, its symptoms can be distressing. 
A food allergy is an immune system response. It is caused when the body mistakes an ingredient in food — usually a protein — as harmful and creates a defense system (antibodies) to fight it. An allergic reaction occurs when the antibodies are battling an invading food protein. The most common food allergies are shellfish, nuts, fish, eggs, peanuts and milk. Symptoms of a food allergy can range from mild to severe, and the amount of food necessary to trigger a reaction varies from person to person. Symptoms of a food allergy may include: 1  Rash or hives. 2  Nausea. 3  Cramping stomach pain. 4  Diarrhea.
If you have lactose intolerance, you may love milk, but your body doesn't -- and it lets you know that when you have too much. You might have symptoms like cramps after a bowl of cereal or gas after an ice cream treat. Lactose is the main sugar in milk and other dairy products. If you have lactose intolerance, you can't digest it well. Lactose intolerance is not curable, but there are many ways to cut your symptoms and feel better.
Lactose intolerance is a condition that results from a deficit of lactase (lactase deficiency), an enzyme produced by the cells lining the small intestine. Lactase is necessary to digest lactose, the natural sugar found in milk. Being intolerant to cow's milk is an allergic reaction triggered by the immune system. Lactose intolerance is a problem caused by the digestive system.
IgE mediated gastrointestinal food allergy: An adverse reaction by the body's immune system to food that is driven by IgE. IgE antibodies specific to food molecules bind with the circulating food allergen and cause the release of immune response molecules such as cytokines. 
Physical reactions to certain foods are common, but most are caused by a food intolerance rather than a food allergy. A food intolerance can cause some of the same signs and symptoms as a food allergy, so people often confuse the two. A true food allergy causes an immune system reaction that affects numerous organs in the body. 1 The reason is not fully understood. 2  Celiac disease. 3  Celiac disease has some features of a true food allergy because it involves the immune system. 4  However, symptoms are mostly gastrointestinal, and people with celiac disease are not at risk of anaphylaxis.
Products. Gastrointestinal (GI) intolerance is much more common than food allergy and has distinctly different causes and symptoms. 1 GI intolerance happens when the digestive system cannot process some foods, causing discomfort. 1 Unlike a food allergy, it does not involve an immune system reaction-in fact, people with GI intolerance can usually tolerate small amounts of these foods without experiencing any uncomfortable symptoms. 1