Meaning of Inc. (abbreviation, acronym) incorporated legally established as a corporation LLC means Limited Liability Company Meaning of Ltd. (abbreviation, acronym) Limited (Ld., ld) firm, company that is organized in such a way as to give its owners limited liability What is the difference between ltd and pvt ltd? Inc. means Corporation or Incorporated LLC means Limited Liability Company Pvt. Ltd. means Private Limited company and it is not always recognized in all states. Source(s): http://www.incorporatefast.com.
LLC is the abbreviation for limited liability company. LLCs are relatively new business structures that combine the features of a corporation and a partnership, specifically the tax benefits of partnerships and the liability protections of a corporation. The limited liability in LLCs refers to the fact that owners, called members, are protected from personal liability for the business actions of the company. Consequently, if the LLC is sued or runs up debt, the personal assets of members cannot, in most cases, be used to satisfy claims from plaintiffs or creditors.
Inc. Inc. is the abbreviation for incorporated. A corporation is a separate legal entity from the person or people forming it. Directors and officers purchase shares in the business and have responsibility for its operation. Incorporation limits an individual's liability in case of a lawsuit.
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation. The primary characteristic an LLC shares with a corporation is limited liability, and the primary characteristic it shares with a partnership is the availability of pass-through income taxation. It is often more flexible than a corporation, and it is well-suited for companies with a single owner.
Benefits. Under LLC statutes, a company automatically qualifies for a tax pass-through.. Tax pass-through means that the company does not pay taxes on net profits; the owners pay taxes on income from the business that's shown on their personal tax returns. Company image by Yuriy Rozanov from Fotolia.com. A limited liability company (LLC) is a type of business in which the owners, called members, have much less liability for company actions and debts than a company like a corporation, according to the Internal Revenue Service.
monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images. LLC stands for limited liability company. A limited liability company is a business that combines elements of corporations, partnerships and sole proprietorships. In an LLC, any entity can be an owner, including individuals, corporations, partnerships or trusts. The limited liability aspect stems from the protection an LLC organization offers its owners. Limited Liability Companies. A limited liability company is an organization in which the assets of the owner are protected from any liability the business may incur. In an LLC, the owner cannot be held responsible for claims or debts made on the business by any creditor or outside entity.
The simple definition of a limited liability company (LLC) is that it is a form of business entity that limits the liability of its owners while allowing flexibility in operation and management and passing through its income to its members with no tax at the entity level. 
If you're considering starting a company and want to choose between an LLC and Inc. (corporation), here is what you should know about the differences. A limited liability company (denoted by L.L.C. or LLC) is a business structure that provides limited liability to its owners. This means the business is a separate legal entity and the owners (members of an LLC) are not legally liable for some acts and debts of the LLC. In a LLC, Limited liability means that the owners of the LLC, called members, are protected from some liability for acts and debts of the LLC, but are still responsible for any debts beyond the fiscal capacity of the entity.
Report Abuse. Inc. means Corporation or Incorporated LLC means Limited Liability Company Pvt. Ltd. means Private Limited company and it is not always recognized in all states. Source(s): http://www.incorporatefast.com.