Phthalates (pronounced thah-lates) are chemical plasticizers that have been widely used since the 1950s to soften plastics that would otherwise be brittle and crack when bent. Because phthalates are not chemically bound to the plastics they're added to, they're continuously released into the air or food or liquid. Here's a list of the most common phthalates, which may come in handy for checking labels: 1  DBP (dibutyl phthalate). 2  DNOP (di-n-octyl phthalate). 3  DiNP (diisononyl phthalate). 4  DEP (diethyl phthalate). 5  BBzP (benzyl butyl phthalate). 6  DEHP (di 2-ethylhexl phthalate). 7  DiDP (diisodecyl phthalate). 8  DnHP (di-n-hex
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate, diethylhexyl phthalate, DEHP; dioctyl phthalate, DOP), is an organic compound with the formula C 8 H 4 (C 8 H 17 COO) 2. DEHP is the most common member of the class of phthalates which are used as plasticizers. 
Biomonitoring studies on levels of phthalate metabolites provide physicians and public health officials with reference values so that they can determine whether people have been exposed to higher levels of these chemicals than are found in the general population. By measuring phthalate metabolites in urine, scientists can estimate the amount of phthalates that have entered people's bodies. 1  CDC researchers found measurable levels of many phthalate metabolites
Phthalates are a group of chemicals used to soften and increase the flexibility of plastic and vinyl. Polyvinyl chloride is made softer and more flexible by the addition of phthalates. Phthalates are used in hundreds of consumer products. 
Definition of PHTHALATE. : any of various salts or esters of phthalic acid used especially as plasticizers and in solvents. ADVERTISEMENT. noun phthal·ate \ˈthal-ˌāt\. : a salt or ester of phthalic acid. 
Phthalate exposure may be through direct use or by indirect means through leaching and general environmental contamination. Diet is believed to be the main source of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) and other phthalates in the general population. Fatty foods such as milk, butter, and meats are a major source. In studies of rodents exposed to certain phthalates, high doses have been shown to change hormone levels and cause birth defects. Phthalate esters are the di alkyl or alkyl aryl esters of phthalic acid (also called 1,2-benzenedicarboxylic acid, not be confused with the structurally isomeric terephthalic or isophthalic acids); the name phthalate derives from phthalic acid, which itself is derived from word  naphthalene .
phthalate. n. 1. (Chemistry) a salt or ester of phthalic acid. Esters are commonly used as plasticizers in PVC; when ingested they can cause kidney and liver damage. 1  Facebook. 1. A salt, ester, or anion of phthalic acid. 2. Any of a group of esters of phthalic acid that are widely used in the manufacture of plastics and as synthetic additives in perfumes and cosmetics. These chemicals have been linked to reproductive and hormonal abnormalities in animals, including humans
Phthalate refers to any of a range of chemicals called phthalate esters, which are used in industrial contexts to increase the flexibility of plastics such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC). Phthalate is used in a variety of products other than plastics, such as personal care products, glues, paints, and pharmaceuticals. There are dozens of varieties of phthalate, which was first produced in the 1920s.