The ovules are the female gametophyte. In gymnosperms, pollination is the transfer of pollen from a microsporangiate, or male cone, to the micropyle of a megasporangiate, or female cone. Once fertilized the female cone produces the seed. Source(s): Conifer cones: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strobilus#C... · just now. Report Abuse. The gametophyte is the male part or male for the term gamete. & sporophyte is the female part or female for the term sporo. From the pine tree, you could only specify the difference of the pines by their cones. Smaller cones means theyre a gametophyte or male cone. and Larger Cones are the female gametophytes
Best Answer: All plants have an alternation of generations between the gamete producing gametophyte and the spore producing sporophyte stages of their life cycle. In pines the sporophyte is the entire tree. Inside the reproductive cones are the miniature gametophyte stages. · just now. Report Abuse. The gametophyte is the male part or male for the term gamete. & sporophyte is the female part or female for the term sporo. From the pine tree, you could only specify the difference of the pines by their cones. Smaller cones means theyre a gametophyte or male cone. and Larger Cones are the female gametophyt
All plants go through this life cycle, though the (homologous) stages may look very different across taxa. The generalized cycle of the Alternation of Generations: 1  gametophyte-haploid plant that produces gametes via mitosis. 2  gamete-haploid ovum (female) or sperm (male). 3  gametangium-generic term for a multicellular plant sex organ. 4  It can be either... 5  archegonium-the female sex organ (analogous to the animal ovary). 
Gametes can either be male-sperm-or female-eggs. The egg and sperm will fuse in order to create the first part of the diploid life stages. The zygote is a unicellular diploid structure that will divide in order to create the sporophyte. The sporophyte is the multicellular diploid stage of the plant life cycle. This structure will eventually create the haploid spores by the process of meiosis. Meiosis-also called sexual reproduction-creates four cells that are genetically different and haploid. Remember that cells containing only one copy of each chromosome are called haploid. The sporophyte will go through meiosis in order to produce spores. Spores are the first part of the haploid stage that we looked at, completing the
The sporophyte, as in all other vascular plant groups, is the dominant, photosynthetic part of the life cycle: when you are holding pine needles in your hand you are holding sporophyte parts. Pines have specialized reproductive structures in which meiosis occurs: pine cones. 
The sporophyte phase produces spores by meiosis within a sporangium. The gametophyte phase produces gametes by mitosis within an antheridium (producing sperm) and/or archegonium (producing eggs). These different stages of the flowering plant life cycle are shown in Figure 4. Plants have an alternation of generations: the diploid spore-producing plant (sporophyte) alternates with the haploid gamete-producing plant (gametophyte), as shown in Figure 3. Animal life cycles have meiosis followed immediately by gametogenesis. Gametes are produced directly by meiosis
Pine gametophyte (outside) surrounding the embryo (inside). A gametophyte is the haploid multicellular stage in the alternation of generations life cycle of plants and algae. It develops from a spore by mitotic cell division. Spores are the products of meiosis in sporophytes. Gametophytes produce haploid gametes by mitosis. In some types of plants and algae (e.g. Ulva) gametes are isogamous --that is, the gametes are all of one size, shape and general morphology.