Uses of This Medicine. Nabumetone is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat mild to moderate pain and help relieve symptoms of arthritis (osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis), such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain. 
Updated: Nabumetone is a prescription medication used to relieve the pain and swelling of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Nabumetone belongs to a group of medications called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which work by stopping substances in your body that cause inflammation and pain. This medication comes in tablet form and is taken once or twice daily, with or without food
Uses. Nabumetone is used to reduce pain, swelling, and joint stiffness from arthritis. This medication is known as a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). If you are treating a chronic condition such as arthritis, ask your doctor about non-drug treatments and/or using other medications to treat your pain. Kidney problems can sometimes occur with the use of NSAID medications, including nabumetone. Problems are more likely to occur if you are dehydrated, have heart failure or kidney disease, are an older adult, or if you take certain medications (see also Drug Interactions section).
Nabumetone is used to reduce pain, swelling, and joint stiffness from arthritis. This medication is known as a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Kidney problems can sometimes occur with the use of NSAID medications, including nabumetone. Problems are more likely to occur if you are dehydrated, have heart failure or kidney disease, are an older adult, or if you take certain medications (see also Drug Interactions section).
Nabumetone is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Nabumetone works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. Nabumetone is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by arthritis. Nabumetone may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Nabumetone is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), the only 1-naphthaleneacetic acid derivative. Nabumetone has been developed by Beecham. It is available under numerous brand names, such as Relafen, Relifex, and Gambaran. Introduction [edit]. Nabumetone is a non acidic NSAID that is rapidly metabolized in the liver to a major active metabolite, 6-methoxy-2-naphthyl acetic acid.
Nabumetone Side Effects. Nabumetone is the generic form of the brand-name drug Relafen, a prescription medicine used to treat pain and inflammation caused by osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or gout. Nabumetone is in a class of medications called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). It works by blocking an enzyme that creates a hormone (prostaglandin) that causes inflammation and pain. 9 Reviews. Nabumetone is the generic form of the brand-name drug Relafen, a prescription medicine used to treat pain and inflammation caused by osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or gout. Nabumetone is in a class of medications called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Nabumetone belongs to a group of medicines called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which are used to reduce inflammation and pain in joints and muscles. Nabumetone tablets are for diseases of the joints such as rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis. 
DISCONTINUED BRAND: Relafen. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Nabumetone belongs to a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Other members of this class include ibuprofen (Motrin), indomethacin (Indocin), naproxen (Aleve) and several others. 