Amethyst is a purple variety of quartz (SiO 2) and owes its violet color to irradiation, iron impurities (in some cases in conjunction with transition element impurities), and the presence of trace elements, which result in complex crystal lattice substitutions. The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. Drunkenness the Ancient greeks wore amethyst and made drinking vessels decorated with it in the belief that it would prevent. intoxication
Amethyst is Silicon dioxide (SiO2) .   When the word amethyst is used the only color that comes to one's mind is purple. Its color is due the presence of iron mineral in it … . The color may range from a faint mauve to a glorious purple. The clear dark purple color is the one that is in most demand. It is also found in blue purple range. Many a times amethyst is found in combination with the yellow color citrine (other variety of quartz family) and is called as Ametrine. Amethyst's Color-Is a violet variety of quartz. Although the stone is typically violet, there are also varieties of green amethyst quartz, also known as prasiolite. Purple … Amethyst is also the Birthstone color of The month February.
The Mineral amethyst. Amethyst is a well known mineral and gemstone. It is the purple variety of the mineral Quartz, and its most valuable and prized variety. Its name derives from the Greek amethystos, which means not drunken, as Amethyst in antiquity was thought to ward off drunkenness
Amethyst is mined in Brazil, Uruguay, Sri Lanka, Siberia, Canada, India, Bolivia, and Argentina and in the U.S.; most of the Amethyst comes from Zambia. The Amethyst can be found in many places and are not the same they are all very different and unique to that area where they are found. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Amethyst (disambiguation) . Amethyst is a violet variety of quartz often used in jewelry. The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. drunkenness The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. Drunkenness the Ancient greeks wore amethyst and made drinking vessels decorated with it in the belief that it would prevent. intoxication
When the word amethyst is used the only color that comes to one's mind is purple. Its color is due the presence of iron mineral in it. The color may range from a faint mauve t … o a glorious purple. The clear dark purple color is the one that is in most demand. Amethyst is Silicon dioxide (SiO2) .   When the word amethyst is used the only color that comes to one's mind is purple. Its color is due the presence of iron mineral in it … . The color may range from a faint mauve t
Desert amethyst glass acquires its color from a color center, as do the colors of the natural gemstones amethyst, smoky quartz, and blue and orange topaz. Many other materials, both natural and man-made, can be irradiated to produce color centers, including irradiated blue, yellow, and green diamonds. 
When the word amethyst is used the only color that comes to one's mind is purple. Its color is due the presence of iron mineral in it. The color may range from a faint mauve to a glorious purple. The clear dark purple color is the one that is in most demand. It is also found in blue purple range. Many a times amethyst is found in combination with the yellow color citrine (other variety of quartz family) and is called as Ametrine. Amethyst's Color-Is a violet variety of quartz. Although the stone is typically violet, there are also varieties of green amethyst quartz, also known as prasiolite. Purple … Amethyst is also the Birthstone color of The month February.
Amethyst Color Amethyst owes its color to iron and aluminum impurities. The colors range from purple and violet to pale red-violet. The deep colors are the most valuable, particularly a rich purple with rose flashes. Siberian deep purple amethyst with red and blue flashes commands the highest prices.