Bus. Greyhound Bus provides service to San Antonio, Texas. San Antonio borders Lackland Air Force Base. The Greyhound Bus station is located at 500 N St. Mary's Street, San Antonio, Texas. Save 15% when you book your tickets online.
How much would be the distance if one could just fly from Lackland AFB to San Antonio International Airport (SAT) like a bird in a staight line? Check the Flight distance between Lackland AFB and San Antonio International Airport (SAT) San Antonio. Travel time is an important point to know with the driving distance. Hence you might also want to know the Travel Time from Lackland AFB to San Antonio International Airport (SAT) San Antonio. This will help you estimate how much time you will spend travelling for the distance from Lackland AFB to San Antonio International Airport (SAT). Want to know how much time is required to fly from Lackland AFB to San Antonio International Airport (SAT)? Check the Flight Time from Lackland AFB to San Antonio International Airport (SAT) San Antonio.
Airports. Lackland Air Force Base is served by San Antonio International Airport. The airport is served by several major airlines including Delta, Southwest, United, US Airways, American, and Continental. The airport is located 7 miles from Lackland Air Force Base. San Antonio borders Lackland Air Force Base. The Greyhound Bus station is located at 500 N St. Mary's Street, San Antonio, Texas. Save 15% when you book your tickets online.
Lackland Air Force Base is located on the west side of San Antonio. Take Exit 4 from I-410W and enter through Airman’s Gate. The gate is opened 24 hours a day. Transportation. { Maps of the BMT Graduation Events sites are here. }. Traveling around San Antonio/Lackland AFB can be a challenge if you are not used to the area. Here is some information to help make your time in Texas more enjoyable.
Want to better plan this Lackland AFB San Antonio International Airport (SAT) distance? Get to know how to Travel from Lackland AFB to San Antonio International Airport (SAT) San Antonio. Want to know how much time is required to fly from Lackland AFB to San Antonio International Airport (SAT)? Check the Flight Time from Lackland AFB to San Antonio International Airport (SAT) San Antonio.
Airports. Lackland Air Force Base is served by San Antonio International Airport. The airport is served by several major airlines including Delta, Southwest, United, US Airways, American, and Continental. The airport is located 18 miles from Lackland Air Force Base. Travel from the airports is via four lane divided highway on Interstate 410 or by shuttle service. San Antonio International Airport: http://www.sanantonio.gov/Aviation. Transportation. { Maps of the BMT Graduation Events sites are here. }. Traveling around San Antonio/Lackland AFB can be a challenge if you are not used to the area. Here is some information to help make your time in Texas more enjoyable.