They include heaters in space probes, antistatic devices, and sources of neutrons and alpha particles. Because of its position in the periodic table, polonium is sometimes classified as a metalloid. Other sources say that on the basis of its properties and behavior, it is unambiguously a metal. The alpha form is the only known example of a simple cubic crystal structure in a single atom basis, with an edge length of 335.2 picometers; the beta form is rhombohedral. The structure of polonium has been characterized by X-ray diffraction and electron diffraction.
Polonium is a chemical element with symbol Po and atomic number 84, discovered in 1898 by Marie Curie and Pierre Curie. The alpha form is the only known example of a simple cubic crystal structure in a single atom basis, with an edge length of 335.2 picometers; the beta form is rhombohedral. The structure of polonium has been characterized by X-ray diffraction and electron diffraction.
Element Polonium-Po. Comprehensive data on the chemical element Polonium is provided on this page; including scores of properties, element names in many languages, most known nuclides of Polonium. Common chemical compounds are also provided for many elements. 
Chemical properties. Polonium has chemical properties like the elements above it in the periodic table, especially selenium and tellurium. Polonium's chemical properties are of interest primarily to research chemists. Under most circumstances, scientists are more interested in polonium as a radioactive material. Polonium has chemical properties like the elements above it in the periodic table, especially selenium and tellurium. Polonium's chemical properties are of interest primarily to research chemist
Discovery: Marie Curie discovered polonium, also called radium F, in 1898. Properties of polonium. There are 25 known isotopes of polonium, with atomic masses ranging from 194 to 218. Polonium-210 is the easiest to obtain. This is a highly volatile, low-melting, radioactive metal. Unless kept in a sealed container, about half a sample of polonium will evaporate within three days.
Polonium is a rare, silvery-gray, radioactive low-melting metalloid. Polonium readily reacts with dilute acids, but only slightly with alkalis. All of its isotopes are radioactive. 210 Po emits a blue glow, as the air around it is excited by the decay products. Polonium is a very rare element due to the short half-life of all its isotopes. It is found in uranium ores in minute quantities. It can be obtained by bombarding natural bismuth, 209 Bi, with neutrons to give 210 Bi, which then decays to 210 Po via β decay.
Chemical Properties. Polonium is a metalloid, chemically similar to bismuth and tellurium. The oxidation states +2, +4, +6, and −2 are known, but Po(IV) is the most stable one. Po(VI) is easily reduced to a lower oxidation state by its own radiation. The discovery of polonium in uranium ores was possible only because of its radioactivity. The equilibrium concentration of 210 Po from uranium ores is 7.4 × 10 −11 g 210 Po/g 238 U. Today, all isotopes between mass numbers 193 and 218 are known. The longest-lived isotope is 209 Po (t 1/2 = 102 years).
It has 33 isotopes, all of which are radioactive. Polonium 210 is a radioactive element with a half life of approximately 138.39 days. It occurs naturally and is widely distributed in small amounts in the earth's crust. Polonium's most stable isotope is Polonium 209 with a half life of 102 years. Polonium Properties. Polonium is a Block P, Group 16, Period 6 element. The number of electrons in each of polonium's shells is 2, 8, 18, 32, 18, 6 and its electron configuration is [Xe]6s 2 4f 14 5d 10 6p 4 uranium source. Polonium is named after Madame Curie's birthplace of Poland