The most easily available access to the best of the Himalayas is in Northern India, Nepal, Tibet, and Bhutan. The Himalayas are home to many of the world’s highest mountains; Everest, K2, Kangchenjunga and Nanda Devi. Even though the Himalayas are not the longest mountain range (that title belongs to the Andes), they do have the distinction of being the youngest and therefore, due to less time weathering, the highest mountain range in the world with over 30 peaks higher than 7315 metres/24000 feet.
14 mountains are over 8,000 meters high, among them the K2, Nanga Parbat and Mount Everest, at 8,848 meter the world’s highest mountain. The Himalayas extend over 1,500 miles (2,400 km) from the Indus Valley in the west to the Brahmaputra Valley in the east. The Himalayas belong to the youngest mountain ranges in the world. They were formed when the Indian subcontinent, which was originally a part of the southern landmass, drifted to the north and crashed into Asia. This movement started about 70 million years ago and has been going on up to the present day.
It is said to be the world's highest mountain range. The Himalayas run from Arunachal Pradesh in the East to Jammu and Kashmir in the West. The mountains form India's border on the north-eastern side and separate it from north-eastern Asia. Indian mountains are the integral parts that serve greatly in building the ecosystem. Indian Mountains have long added to the pristine beauty of the country, epitomizing majesty with their tall and regal presence. For centuries, these mountains have protected the nation's borders from invading armies.
About half as long as the Atlantic is wide, it boasts more than a hundred peaks in excess of 24,000 feet (7315 m) above sea level and at least 20 of more than 26,000 feet (7925 m), which is higher than the highest mountains found anywhere else in the world. The first suggestion that the Himalayas might be “among the highest mountains of the old world” came from Maj. James Rennel, who in the 1770s surveyed up to the mountains in Bengal on behalf of that province’s recent British conqueror, Col. Robert Clive (later Lord Clive of Plassey).
The Himalayas. The Himalayas are mountains that are located in southern Asia. They are a part of in Nepal, India, Pakistan, Tibet and Bhutan. The mountains are the highest in the world, reaching almost 9,000 meters above sea level. The Himalayas separate the Indian subcontinent from the inner part of Asia. The Himalayas belong to the youngest mountain ranges in the world. They were formed when the Indian subcontinent, which was originally a part of the southern landmass, drifted to the north and crashed into Asia. This movement started about 70 million years ago and has been going on up to the present day.
The Himalayas are home to some of the most famous peaks in India like the Kanchenjungha and Nanda Devi. You can participate in exciting adventure sports and activities such as rock climbing, trekking, nature walk, whitewater rafting, camping, and mountain biking. Sikkim is a very small state in India. The state is bordered by Bhutan to the east, Nepal to the west, the state of West Bengal to the South and by the Autonomous Region of Tibet in China to the north. Sikkim is home to the third highest peak in the world, the Kanchenjungha (8,586 m).
Nanda Devi is another high mountain in India, held as the second highest in the world, legends calling it the daughter of Himalayas and held sacred among Hindus, while Kangchenjunga is considered the third highest in the world, both are famous mountains of India closer to Himalayas and in Nepal border. Aravalli Ranges are said to be the oldest among mountains in India, covering the northern end of the country, lining up the States of Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Haryana terminating in Central Delhi, dating back to the times earlier to Indian subcontinent colluding with Eurasian Plate.