At a cooking temperature between 300 and 350 degrees F, it takes a chicken about 20 to 30 minutes per pound to cook. A 4 pound chicken should take nearly 2 hours. When the internal temperature of the chicken reaches 175 to 180 degree F, it is time to take it off the heat.
Season the chicken with salt and pepper, to taste. Put the chicken on the grill or, if broiling, put it on the prepared baking sheet. Grill or broil, 4 inches from the heat, turning once, for 10 minutes per side. Put 1/2 of the BBQ sauce in a small bowl, for drizzling and serving. Reserve.
Baste with apple juice after half an hour. Continue to cook the chicken for about 3 hours, basting every 45 minutes. Wait until the chicken is cooked through before basting with the sauce. Give it a couple of minutes on the fire for the sauce to glaze the meat.
The chicken will take 2-1/2 to 3 hours to cook. You'll need to check the fire, adding coals now and then to keep the temperature of the grill between 230° and 250°F, but that's only about every 30 to 45 minutes. I also baste the chicken at least once with apple juice, but you don't even have to do that.
Cover the grill again and allow to cook for another 15-20 minutes. Repeat, turning the chicken pieces over, basting them with sauce, covering, and cooking for another 10-30 minutes. NOTE that timing will depend on your grill set-up, the size of your chicken pieces, and how cold your chicken pieces are to start with!
Grill with just a pinch of patience – over direct, medium heat for about 10 minutes – and you'll be rewarded with juicy, succulent chicken breasts. And, if you want to plate up breasts that are even more flavorful try grilling free range chicken.
1 Season with salt and pepper. 2  Bake for 20 minutes and brush a layer of BBQ sauce on the chicken. 3  Return to the oven and repeat brushing with BBQ sauce every 5 minutes until the chicken is cooked through, about 15 to 20 minutes longer.
1 Bake for 20 minutes and brush a layer of BBQ sauce on the chicken. 2  Return to the oven and repeat brushing with BBQ sauce every 5 minutes until the chicken is cooked through, about 15 to 20 minutes longer.