The Carpet & Pad prices below do not reflect how much it will cost to install your carpet. Installation prices vary depending on what part of the country you live in; how difficult your project is; and what style and grade of carpet you select.
Typical Carpet Cost: Range from $15 to $22 per yard Carpet Face Weight: 30 to 40 ounce Carpet Fiber: Nylon, Sorona PTT, Smartstrand Common Styles: Plush, textured plush, sculptured, Berber, Cut Pile, Saxony Typical Lifespan: 6 to 12 years Padding Cost: Ranges from $3.00 - $5.50 per square yard.
Bear in mind that carpet is often priced per square yard, not square foot. (To calculate the price per square foot yourself, divide the price per yard by nine.) Be aware, too, that when you look at a carpet sample, the color might differ slightly from what would be delivered to your home. Consider asking for a roll-cut sample -- a piece of carpet cut from the lot you would actually purchase.
Many have branches or stores, where most of the same merchandise is available, in New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennyslvania and on Long Island. The prices are per square yard and include installation and padding unless otherwise noted. ABC Carpet Company, 881 Broadway (19th Street); 212-677-6970.
Typical Carpet Cost: Ranges from $15 to $22 per yard Carpet Face Weight: 30 to 40 ounce Carpet Fiber: Nylon, Sorona PTT, Smartstrand Common Styles: Plush, textured plush, sculptured, Berber, Cut Pile, Saxony Typical Lifespan: 6 to 12 years Padding Cost: Ranges from $3.00 - $4.50 per square yard.
Basic Carpet Cost Guidelines: A typical 2 Bedroom home requires about 100 yards of Carpet. Here's what it will likely cost you for the Carpet, Padding and Installation depending on your Traffic Level and How Long you want your Carpet to Last.
The Carpet & Pad prices below do not reflect how much it will cost to install your carpet. Carpet installation costs vary depending on what part of the country you live in; how difficult your project is; and what Carpet Style and Carpet Quality you select.
$45 / 5.00. Obviously, spending just $15 per yard on new carpet won't get you the highest quality. However, if you have low foot traffic you still can get many years of use from an inexpensive carpet if you take good care of it.