Archeological evidence indicates that the mineral has been mined and smelted to obtain copper at Timna Valley in Israel for over 3,000 years. Since then, malachite has been used as both an ornamental stone and as a gemstone. Malachite often results from weathering of copper ores and is often found together with azurite (Cu 3 (CO 3) 2 (OH) 2), goethite, and calcite. Except for its vibrant green color, the properties of malachite are similar to those of azurite and aggregates of the two minerals occur frequently.
Malachite is a wonderful gemstone that is generally used for ornamental jewelry, small statues and figurines and many times for pigment to make paint. Malachite usually comes in a rich, intense green and it can be light or dark. What is important is that it is generally banded. In most gemstones, you will see plenty of bands or rings within the stone each with their own color of green. Malachite gets it wonderfully warm colors from the element copper. The Uses of Malachite. Malachite is one of the most popular and beautiful semi precious stones available. While it might be owned by millions, most people are not aware that the ornamental jewelry or figurines they own are created from the gemstone
COMMENTS: Malachite is one of the most popular and beautiful of decorative stones. lts rich, patterned coloration in shades of green is unique among gems. Malachite can (with great care) be turned on a lathe to make goblets and candlesticks. It is extensively used to make cabochons, beads, boxes, and carvings of all kinds. 
Malachite has a great number of attributes that make it a wonderful stone to be used for metaphysical purposes, in particular its power to protect you from negative entities. Its action to protect you from negative energies is one of its most powerful attributes, as it creates a strong barrier around you energetically. Malachite is a copper based stone, and resonates strongly with the fire element, which is quite uncommon for green stones. It is also helpful to enhance your creativity and aiding you to find solutions creatively to issues that stand in your way.
Scientific Gemstone Properties. Mohs Hardness of 4 with a monoclinic crystal structure. Malachite is usually found in large opaque green masses, copper being the cause for the coloring. It often crystallizes in the form of crusts, tufts, masses, or rosettes. But a few will also exhibit a drusy of small crystals of Malachite on the surface
1 Love stone, Green Malachite is gemstone for love. 2  For the love of attraction used or placed near the heart to get true love. 3  Malachite metaphysical properties bring harmony and stability in a relationship, whether romantic or friendship, loyalty Enhance, Helps repair damaged relationships ever and restore confidence. Malachite Stone meaning. Green Malachite meaning is specific gemstone to giving in 13 th wedding anniversaries. In the world of Astrology malachite stone connected to the Capricorn and Scorpio zodiac sign. Green Malachite was used to help clear and activate all Chakras body, especially the heart and throat.
Malachite has been used as a gemstone and sculptural material for thousands of years and is still popular today. Today it is most often cut into cabochons or beads for jewelry use. Malachite has a green color that does not fade over time or when exposed to light. It was one of the first ores used to produce copper metal. It is of minor importance today as an ore of copper because it is usually found in small quantities and can be sold for higher prices for other types of use.
Healing properties of Malachite. Malachite is a stone that should not be used for physical healing. Malachite has been called the mirror of the soul. It is variable in its condition. It reaches the inner feelings of the person and reflects what is there, negative or positive. Malachite has been used to aid success in business and protect against undesirable business associations. It is a stone of balance in relationships. Malachite is always green, usually in banded tones varying from very dark green to a mellow green.
As one of the oldest existing stone, malachite stone has been used by humans since ancient times to help realize their desires. Malachite stone is a solid rock to create wealth, prosperity and abundance.This stone absorbs negative energy that is all around us so it has properties as a protector. Malachite Stone meaning. Green Malachite meaning is specific gemstone to giving in 13 th wedding anniversaries. In the world of Astrology malachite stone connected to the Capricorn and Scorpio zodiac sign. Green Malachite was used to help clear and activate all Chakras body, especially the heart and throat.
Malachite Gemstone meaning. Malachite is believed to be a strong protector of children. It is said to protect the wearer from accidents and protects travelers. Malachite has been used to aid success in business and protect against undesirable business associations. It is a stone of balance in relationships. Malachite is always green, usually in banded tones varying from very dark green to a mellow green.