The swelling and inflammation can build up for days after a workout, and that's why muscle soreness may be worse two, three, or even four days after a workout (it can take up to five days for muscles to heal completely depending on the intensity of the workout).
Another “normal” pain you may feel occurs 1-2 days after your workout. In the medical community this is termed DOMS, short for delayed onset muscle soreness. This muscle pain creeps up 12-48 hours after performing a strenuous activity and that lasts a few days.
/acefit/healthy-living-article/60/685/if-my-muscles-are-sore-from-previous-workouts-is The answer to this question depends on the severity of muscle soreness, which can range from slight tenderness to debilitating pain. Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) happens 1 -2 days after exercise. The most likely cause of DOMS is microscopic muscle tears or a breakdown in muscle tissue that occurs during a workout. Introducing new activities or suddenly increasing the intensity can cause DOMS to occur.
It's normal to have sore muscles after you work out, play sports, or even do housework, especially if: 1  You did something you're not used to, like running a marathon when you normally jog just a few miles. 2  You suddenly kicked up your exercise intensity level or increased the length of your workout.
This is called acute soreness. More often, you may begin to feel sore about 12 hours after exercising, and the discomfort usually peaks at 48 to 72 hours after exercise. This is called delayed-onset muscle soreness. It is thought that, during this time, your body is repairing the muscle, making it stronger and bigger.
Working out can result in muscle soreness. While muscle soreness may sound simple enough, it can actually occur for a variety of reasons. Typically, muscle soreness is the result of lactic acid that builds up in the muscles during a workout. If you fail to stretch properly before and after a workout, this lactic acid stays in the muscles and, soon after, causes muscle soreness. You also feel muscle soreness because, during a workout, you are actually causing your muscles to tear. As a result of these tears, you may experience