Soil particles can be classified by their chemical composition (mineralogy) as well as their size. The particle size distribution of a soil, its texture, determines many of the properties of that soil, but the mineralogy of those particles can strongly modify those properties. The mineral material from which a soil forms is called parent material. Rock, whether its origin is igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic, is the source of all soil mineral materials and the origin of all plant nutrients with the exceptions of nitrogen, hydrogen and carbon.
Soil is considered to be the skin of the earth and interfaces with its lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, and biosphere. Soil consists of a solid phase (minerals and organic matter) as well as a porous phase that holds gases and water. Accordingly, soils are often treated as a three-state system. The mineral material from which a soil forms is called parent material. Rock, whether its origin is igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic, is the source of all soil mineral materials and the origin of all plant nutrients with the exceptions of nitrogen, hydrogen and carbon.
Bulk density is dependent on soil organic matter, soil texture, the density of soil mineral (sand, silt, and clay) and their packing arrangement. As a rule of thumb, most rocks have a density of 2.65 g/cm 3 so ideally, a silt loamsoil has 50% pore space a bulk anddensity of1.33 g/cm 3. For example, a soil with a bulk density of 1.3 versus a soil with a bulk density of 1.0 would result in a 30% error in organic matter and nutrient content if the samples are not adjusted for bulk density. Table 1. General relationship of soil bulk density to root growth based on soil texture.
Permeability is a measure of a soil's or rock's ability to transmit a fluid, usually water. Often the term hydraulic conductivity is used when discussing groundwater and aquifer properties. Hydraulic conductivity simply assumes that water is the fluid moving through a soil or rock type. Generally, soil refers to the top few feet of the land surface. The soil acts as a natural filter to screen out many substances that mix with the water. But water will transport some contaminants into the groundwater.
All the soils in the United States having the same series name are essentially alike in those characteristics that affect their behavior in the undisturbed landscape. Soils of one series can differ in texture of the surface layer and in slope, stoniness, or some other characteristics that affect use of the soils by man. On the basis of such differences, a soil series is divided into phases. The name of a soil phase indicates a feature that affects management. They relate this behavior to properties of the soils. For example, they observe that filter fields for onsite disposal of sewage fail on a given kind of soil, and they relate this to the slow permeability of the soil or its high water table.
The rhizosphere is the region of soil immediately adjacent to and affected by plant roots. It is a very dynamic environment where plants, soil, micro-organisms, nutrients and water meet and interact. The rhizosphere differs from the bulk soil because of the activities of plant roots and their effect on soil organisms. Organic matter in the soil gives the soil good structure, and enables the soil to absorb water and retain nutrients. It also facilitates the growth and life of the soil biota by providing energy from carbon compounds, N for protein formation, and other
It affects infiltration, rooting depth/restrictions, available water capacity, soil porosity, plant nutrient availability, and soil microorganismactivity, which influence key soil processesand productivity. It is the weight of dry soil per unit of volume typically expressed in grams/cm 3. For example, a soil with a bulk density of 1.3 versus a soil with a bulk density of 1.0 would result in a 30% error in organic matter and nutrient content if the samples are not adjusted for bulk density. Table 1. General relationship of soil bulk density to root growth based on soil texture.
The smallest volume that can be called a soil.'' A pedon is three dimensional and large enough to permit study of all horizons. Its area ranges from about 10 to 100 square feet (1 square meter to 10 square meters), depending on the variability of the soil. Fertility, soil. The quality that enables a soil to provide plant nutrients, in adequate amounts and in proper balance, for the growth of specified plants when light, moisture, temperature, tilth, and other growth factors are favorable.
Soil bulk density is equal to the dry mass of the soil divided by the volume of the soil; i.e., it includes air space and organic materials of the soil volume. The soil bulk density of cultivated loam is about 1.1 to 1.4 g/cm 3 (for comparison water is 1.0 g/cm 3). Soil bulk density is highly variable for a given soil. The mineral material from which a soil forms is called parent material. Rock, whether its origin is igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic, is the source of all soil mineral materials and the origin of all plant nutrients with the exceptions of nitrogen, hydrogen and carbon.
. In the unified soil classification system (uscs) the soil is given a descriptive name and a letter symbol indicating its principal characteristics. Placement of solid into its respective group is accomplished by visual examination and laboratory tests. (Physical properties: particle size, moisture content, density). Soil report recommendation should be based on testing of materials obtained from on site borings and to include: Bearing capacity of soil. Foundation design recommendations. Paving design recommendations. Compaction of soil.