With Shroud, that permanent or player cannot be the target of any spell or ability that targets. Hexproof is the same, except only with spells or abilities your opponents control.
Asked by abenz419 2 years ago. ok from my understanding, a creature with shroud can't be the target of spells or abilities. Whether or not they are your or your opponents. And a creature with hexproof can't be the target of spells or abilities your opponents control.
Hexproof is a static ability that means that the affected permanent or player cannot be the target of spells or abilities your opponents control, but can still be target by spells or abilities you control.
Shroud is a static ability. Shroud means This permanent or player can't be the target of spells or abilities.. 702.18b. Multiple instances of shroud on the same permanent or player are redundant.
Hexproof on a permanent means This permanent can't be the target of spells or abilities your opponents control.. 702.11c. Hexproof on a player means You can't be the target of spells or abilities your opponents control.. 702.11d. Multiple instances of hexproof on the same permanent or player are redundant.
Shroud means This object can't be the target of spells or abilities. Nothing can target an object with shroud, but nontarget effects (e.g. Day of Judgment, overloaded Mizzium Mortars) can still affect shrouded objects. Hexproof means This object can't be the target of spells or abilities your opponents control.
#1. With Shroud, that permanent or player cannot be the target of any spell or ability that targets. Hexproof is the same, except only with spells or abilities your opponents control. So say you have an Invisible Stalker out, you can cast Giant Growth on it, but your opponent can't Murder it since Murder targets.
• With Shroud ability, a player cannot be the target of a spell. • Hexproof means the creature cannot be a target of abilities under the control of your opponent. • Hexproof is better than Shroud as you can penalize your opponent, but you cannot do so with Shroud.