Definition of BIRTH DEFECT. : a physical or biochemical defect that is present at birth and may be inherited or environmentally induced. See birth defect defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of BIRTH DEFECT for Kids. : a physical defect that a person is born with and that may be inherited or caused by something in the environment.
birth defect. n. A physiological or structural abnormality that develops at or before birth and is present at the time of birth, especially as a result of faulty development, infection, heredity, or injury. Also called congenital anomaly. 1. Any distortion of a part or general disfigurement of the body. 2. Congenital malformation, see there. 3. An abnormality of structure, function or body metabolism present at birth that may result in a physical and/or mental disability or is fatal. (bĭrth dēfekt).
Birth defect: Any defect present in a baby at birth, irrespective of whether the defect is caused by a genetic factor or by prenatal events that are not genetic. Birth defects may involve many different organs including the brain, heart, lungs, liver, bones, and intestinal tract. Birth defects are present in one of every five babies that die in the US. How a particular birth defect affects a child varies and depends greatly on the severity of the defect and whether or not other medical problems are present.
birth defect-a defect that is present at birth. congenital abnormality, congenital anomaly, congenital defect, congenital disorder. ablepharia-a congenital absence of eyelids (partial or complete). albinism-the congenital absence of pigmentation in the eyes and skin and hair. n. A physiological or structural abnormality that develops at or before birth and is present at the time of birth, especially as a result of faulty development, infection, heredity, or injury. Also called congenital anomaly.
The parents of children with birth defects are encouraged to discuss the specifics of the effects of the defect on their child's current condition with their child's doctor. A birth defect is also called a congenital malformation or a congenital anomaly. Birth defects are present in one of every five babies that die in the US. How a particular birth defect affects a child varies and depends greatly on the severity of the defect and whether or not other medical problems are present.
All parents are at risk of having a baby with a birth defect, regardless of age, race, income or residence. In the US (and many other developed nations), 2% to 3% of babies are born with a medically significant birth defect. The infants with birth defects include many with heart defects, cleft lip or palate, Down syndrome, spina bifida, and limb defects. Birth defects are present in one of every five babies that die in the US. How a particular birth defect affects a child varies and depends greatly on the severity of the defect and whether or not other medical problems are present.
Congenital disorder, also known as congenital disease, birth defect or anomaly, is a condition existing at or before birth regardless of cause. Of these diseases, those characterized by structural deformities are termed congenital anomalies and involve defects in a developing fetus. 
Almost 20% of deaths in newborns are caused by birth defects. Abnormalities can occur in any major organ or part of the body. Major defects are structural abnormalities that affect the way a person looks and require medical and/or surgical treatment. A serious illness in the mother, such as an under-active thyroid, or diabetes mellitus, in which her body cannot process sugar, also can cause birth defects in the child. In fact, in 2003, it was shown that babies of diabetic mothers are five times as likely to have structural heart defects as other babies.