The problem of poor cost management and overrun in project cost is serious issue in both developed and developing countries. This needs serious attention for improving the construction cost performance as rarely projects are completed within budget (Chimwaso, 2001). 
Cost overrun should be distinguished from cost escalation, which is used to express an anticipated growth in a budgeted cost due to factors such as inflation. Cost overrun is common in infrastructure, building, and technology projects. For IT projects, a 2004 industry study by the Standish Group found an average cost overrun of 43 percent; 71 percent of projects came in over budget, exceeded time estimates, and had estimated too narrow a scope; and total waste was estimated at $55 billion per year in the US alone.
Estimates. A common reason for cost overruns is the inaccuracy of cost estimates. When the bids for subcontracts or the actual costs come in, they are often higher than anticipated. Such cost overruns are due either to incorrect estimates or to changed conditions in the marketplace. Planning. The project progresses according to a plan that assigns durations to project tasks. If the projected durations can be too short, the project take longer than anticipated and cause cost overruns. Monitoring project tasks on the critical path, which is the task sequence from project start to finish that takes the longest to complete, helps reduce the risk of delays
A cost overrun, also known as a cost increase or budget overrun, involves unexpected costs incurred in excess of budgeted amounts due to an underestimation of the actual cost during budgeting. For IT projects, a 2004 industry study by the Standish Group found an average cost overrun of 43 percent; 71 percent of projects came in over budget, exceeded time estimates, and had estimated too narrow a scope; and total waste was estimated at $55 billion per year in the US alone.
Prevent project cost overruns with these four essential processes. Savvy IT leaders can prevent projects from going over budget. This four-pronged approach outlines the essential processes for better planning and management, even for the largest IT projects. 
In IT projects (essentially meaning software development projects in this context), the traditional approach to try to control costs is the use of project management techniques, such as PRINCE2 - though the use of such techniques has not prevented cost overruns in all cases. For IT projects, a 2004 industry study by the Standish Group found an average cost overrun of 43 percent; 71 percent of projects came in over budget, exceeded time estimates, and had estimated too narrow a scope; and total waste was estimated at $55 billion per year in the US alone.
While poor execution of project management tasks can lead to increased costs, you can link less obvious reasons to the processes of project management and the underlying nature of complex projects. Planning. The project progresses according to a plan that assigns durations to project tasks. If the projected durations can be too short, the project take longer than anticipated and cause cost overruns. Monitoring project tasks on the critical path, which is the task sequence from project start to finish that takes the longest to complete, helps reduce the risk of delay
Introduction. Cost overruns are a common occurrence in project management. I have covered in an earlier article about the reasons why cost overruns occur. In this post, I will cover the ways to prevent your projects from having cost overruns. 1. Pay a lot of attention to project planning. Planning is the most essential component of project management and the biggest weapon against cost overruns & delays. Think of all the major scenarios and flesh out the complete scope of the project before a single line is coded. Once the scope is defined, get a sign-off from all the stakeholder