Start your exploration here. HEAR DAVID'S MUSIC Yes, David also composes music and plays guitar (in fact he thinks of his compositions as natural extensions of his paintings). If you like the music of King Crimson, David Lynch, or David Gilmour, you might just enjoy David's. But there's no need to guess. (We offer flexible layaway plans.) (Email Wendy at delamare@teleport.com to request an invoice.) We also have several poster specials ALICE BOOK COMING SOON 2015 is the 150th anniversary of the first publication of Lewis Carroll's classic tale and there are related events happening worldwide.
Today he also works with oil paints which provide more texture and depth than acrylics. Oils also slow him down, keeping him more aware of the painting process. Most often he uses both, using acrylic for underpainting and oil for detailing, and he sometimes adds other mediums such as colored pencil or oil pastels. I'll do my best to answer each and, if appropriate, I'll add your question to this page. Best Wishes, Wendy Ice, President (Bad Monkey Productions) Bad Monkey Productions at http://www.daviddelamare.comE-mail: delamare@teleport.com Artist's portrait by Samm Potts, 2000.
WELCOME TO THE OFFICIAL DAVID DELAMARE WEBSITE(the world's most complete source for Delamare artwork and gifts) This site is best viewed with Safari or Internet Explorer. While here, please view our slideshows and sign up for our free newsletter. (We offer flexible layaway plans.) (Email Wendy at delamare@teleport.com to request an invoice.) We also have several poster specials ALICE BOOK COMING SOON 2015 is the 150th anniversary of the first publication of Lewis Carroll's classic tale and there are related events happening worldwide.
(the world's most complete source for Delamare artwork and gifts). This site is best viewed with Safari or Internet Explorer. (We offer flexible layaway plans.) (Email Wendy at delamare@teleport.com to request an invoice.) We also have several poster specials ALICE BOOK COMING SOON 2015 is the 150th anniversary of the first publication of Lewis Carroll's classic tale and there are related events happening worldwide.
David was born in Leicester, UK but has spent most of his life in Portland, Oregon where he enjoys the cloudy weather. Though he likes to travel, he has never driven a car. 
Generally, the more creative control he has, the better the result. David's paintings are still surprisingly affordable (generally starting at about $2000) but they are very collectable so it's difficult to predict future prices, If interested, contact me at delamare@teleport.com for availability and prices. I'll do my best to answer each and, if appropriate, I'll add your question to this page. Best Wishes, Wendy Ice, President (Bad Monkey Productions) Bad Monkey Productions at http://www.daviddelamare.comE-mail: delamare@teleport.com Artist's portrait by Samm Potts, 2000.
He listens to music while he paints (from Mozart to Gershwin to Randy Newman) and he is an avid reader (favorite authors include Samuel Beckett, John Cheever, Edith Wharton, and Alan Bennett.) These influences often find their way into his paintings. I'll do my best to answer each and, if appropriate, I'll add your question to this page. Best Wishes, Wendy Ice, President (Bad Monkey Productions) Bad Monkey Productions at http://www.daviddelamare.comE-mail: delamare@teleport.com Artist's portrait by Samm Potts, 2000.
Fantasy Artist. David Delamare was born in Leicester, UK but has spent most of his life in Portland, Oregon where he enjoys the cloudy weather. Though he likes to travel, he has never driven a car. He sleeps late and works deep into the night. When he's not attending films, plays, or concerts he can usually be found at home or strolling in Portland's Hawthorne District.