So, if you find a loan within 30 days, the inquiries won't affect your scores while you're rate shopping. In addition, FICO Scores look on your credit report for mortgage, auto, and student loan inquiries older than 30 days. In addition, FICO Scores look on your credit report for rate-shopping inquiries older than 30 days. If your FICO Scores find some, your scores will consider inquiries that fall in a typical shopping period as just one inquiry.
After your property is lien-free, order your credit report and scores from all three bureaus to see how bad the damage is. It may take up to 90 days for the bureaus to receive the lien information. Common types include judgment, mechanic and tax liens. Judgment liens can be placed on your home if a person or company, such as a credit card company, wins a lawsuit against you in court. A general contractor can file a lien on your house if he didn't get paid for the work he did.
1 However, you will need to contact them for your credit score, which the bureaus do not provide for free. 2  You may also complete the Annual Credit Report Request form from the FTC website and mail it to the following address: Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. 3  Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281. 1 You can also request these reports by calling 1-877-322-8228. 2  Do not contact the bureaus directly for your free credit report. 3 
Bad Mark #3: Tax Liens. While tax liens themselves can stay on your credit report for as long as your state laws allow, if you pay the tax lien off, then the tax lien should be removed after 7 years. The tax lien should show up as “paid” during this time period. While the average length of time is 7 years, how long your bad mark will stay on your specific credit report depends on a variety of factors such as the type of mark it is.
Go to AnnualCreditReport. com to view your credit score once per year. Because of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, every person is entitled to a free credit report once per year from each of the major credit bureaus: Experian, TransUnion and Equifax. 1  You can also request these reports by calling 1-877-322-8228. 1 You can also request these reports by calling 1-877-322-8228. 2  Do not contact the bureaus directly for your free credit report. 3  However, you will need to contact them for your credit score, which the bureaus do not provide for free.
These bad marks will remain on your report for 2 years. “Soft pulls” (credit checks not initiated by you) will remain on your credit report for 1 year but do not affect your credit score. While the average length of time is 7 years, how long your bad mark will stay on your specific credit report depends on a variety of factors such as the type of mark it is.
How long a bankruptcy stays on your credit report depends on the type of bankruptcy you filed. Chapter 13 bankruptcies may be removed from your credit report after 7 years, whereas Chapter 7 and Chapter 11 bankruptcies can remain on your report for 10 years. While the average length of time is 7 years, how long your bad mark will stay on your specific credit report depends on a variety of factors such as the type of mark it is.
If you’ve successfully secured business loans for bad credit, you will now want to look at how to repair and rebuild your credit rating. This will be important to the future success of your business. Here are some things you can do to reestablish your credit: 1  From today forward, pay your bills on time. 
A credit score of 760-850 (a good score) will mean a total interest payment of $55,000. But if your credit score is around 620, your total interest payment an amount to $88,000. That is a difference of $33,000. The lower your score is, the higher the interest rate that you will have to pay for. Think of all the savings you will get just by having a good credit score. 