Conductivity or specific conductance is the measure of the water's ability to conduct an electric current. Conductivity depends upon the number of ions or charged particles in the water. 
Formerly, the International System of Units used MHO, a backward spelling of Ohm, as an informal unit of conductivity. However, although MHO may still be used by some practitioners today, the Siemens (S) is now known as the basic unit of conductivity. If an electrode has varying dimensions, you may also see a unit such as S/cm, where Siemens is measured with respect to a specific dimension or distance. Specific conductivity, symbolized by C, is the product of measured conductivity (G) and a given electrode cell constant (L/A).
Conductance is measured in mhos or siemens 19. Conductivity is the conductance (S) measured across a specified distance (1 cm), which is incorporated into the units (S/cm) 19. As such, the conductance of water will change with the distance specified. Conductivity is a measure of water’s capability to pass electrical flow. This ability is directly related to the concentration of ions in the water 1. These conductive ions come from dissolved salts and inorganic materials such as alkalis, chlorides, sulfides and carbonate compounds 3.
The SI unit of conductivity is S /m and, unless otherwise qualified, it refers to 25 °C. Often encountered in industry is the traditional unit of μS/cm. 10 6 μS/cm = 10 3 mS/cm = 1 S/cm. The electrical conductivity of a solution of an electrolyte is measured by determining the resistance of the solution between two flat or cylindrical electrodes separated by a fixed distance. An alternating voltage is used in order to avoid electrolysis. The resistance is measured by a conductivity meter
Units of Measurement. Electrical Conductivity is the ability of a solution to transfer (conduct) electric current. It is the reciprocal of electrical resistivity (ohms). Therefore conductivity is used to measure the concentration of dissolved solids which have been ionized in a polar solution such as water. The unit of measurement commonly used is one millionth of a Siemen per centimeter (micro-Siemens per centimeter or S/cm).
The SI unit for conductance is the siemens (S). A siemens is the  reciprocal of the ohm. A siemens also equals how many amperes  divided by voltage. Edit. Share to: 1  Best Humidifiers for Your Home Increasing the humidity in your house or in certain rooms is an important thing to do. Conductivity is the reciprocal of resistivity, and is measured in siemens per metre (S/m). Resistivity is measured in ohm metres. 3 people found this useful.
Siemens (S) is a unit of the electrical conductivity. The conductivity of water is measured within a certain distance thus the input is in S/cm or mS/cm. Other electrical conductivity units are Mho cm, CF (in America and Australia) en EC.
Definition and description. Conductivity of a substance is defined as ' the ability or power to conduct or transmit heat, electricity, or sound '. Its units are Siemens per meter [S/m] in SI and millimhos per centimeter [mmho/cm] in U.S. customary units. Its symbol is k or s. Sea water 5 S/m. Electrical Conductivity and TDS. TDS or Total Dissolved Solids is a measure of the total ions in solution. EC is actually a measure of the ionic activity of a solution in term of its capacity to transmit current.
Conductivity (or specific conductance) of an electrolyte solution is a measure of its ability to conduct electricity. The SI unit of conductivity is siemens per meter (S/m). Conductivity measurements are used routinely in many industrial and environmental applications as a fast, inexpensive and reliable way of measuring the ionic content in a solution. The electrical conductivity of a solution of an electrolyte is measured by determining the resistance of the solution between two flat or cylindrical electrodes separated by a fixed distance. An alternating voltage is used in order to avoid electrolysis. The resistance is measured by a conductivity meter