The National Eye Institute (NEI), part of NIH, has appointed three new members to the National Advisory Eye Council (NAEC) who are attending their first NAEC meeting as council members today. The NAEC provides guidance on research, training, and other NEI programs. 
How the Human Eye Works. The human eye can be compared to a camera which gathers, focuses, and transmits light through a lens to create an image of the environment. In a camera, the image is created on film; in the eye, the image is created on the retina, a thin layer of light sensitive cells at the back of the eye. The lens of the eye bends, or refracts, light that enters the eye. The cornea, which is a clear, transparent covering in the front portion of the eye also contributes to focusing light on the retina.
The retina of the eye has two types of light-sensitive cells called rods and cones. Both are found in the retina which is the layer at the back of your eye which processes images. Rods work in low light conditions to help night vision, but cones work in daylight and are responsible for colour discrimination. 
Octopus. In vertebrate eyes, the nerve fibers route before the retina, blocking some light and creating a blind spot where the fibers pass through the retina and out of the eye. In octopus eyes, the nerve fibers route behind the retina, and do not block light or disrupt the retina. In the example, 4 denotes the vertebrate blind spot, which is notably absent in the octopus eye.
blind spot. The beginning of the optic nerve in the retina is called the optic nerve head or optic disc. Since there are no photoreceptors (cones and rods) in the optic nerve head, this area of the retina cannot respond to light stimulation. As a result, it is known as the blind spot, and everybody has one in each eye. The reason we normally do not notice our blind spots is because, when both eyes are open, the blind spot of one eye corresponds to retina that is seeing properly in the other eye. Here is a way for you to see just how absolutely blind your blind spot is.
In vertebrates, 1 denotes the retina and 2 the nerve fibers, including the optic nerve (3), whereas in octopodes, 1 and 2 denote the nerve fibers and retina respectively. Distribution of rods and cones along a line passing through the fovea and the blind spot of a human eye. In octopus eyes, the nerve fibers route behind the retina, and do not block light or disrupt the retina. In the example, 4 denotes the vertebrate blind spot, which is notably absent in the octopus eye.
People usually have three types of cone cells in the eye. Each type senses either red, green, or blue light. You see color when your cone cells sense different amounts of these three basic colors. The highest concentration of cone cells are found in the macula, which is the central part of the retina.
Light projects through the pupil and the lens to the back of the eye. The inside lining of the eye is covered by special light-sensing cells that are collectively called the retina. The retina converts light into electrical impulses. Behind the eye, the optic nerve carries these impulses to the brain. The macula is a small extra-sensitive area within the retina that gives central vision. It is located in the center of the retina and contains the fovea, a small depression or pit at the center of the macula that gives the clearest vision. 
Because there are no cells to detect light on the optic disc, the corresponding part of the field of vision is invisible. Some process in our brains interpolates the blind spot based on surrounding detail and information from the other eye, so we do not normally perceive the blind spot. In octopus eyes, the nerve fibers route behind the retina, and do not block light or disrupt the retina. In the example, 4 denotes the vertebrate blind spot, which is notably absent in the octopus eye.
From here, the retina translates the images into nerve impulses that are transmitted to the brain through the optic nerve. When any of these eye parts are damaged, either through illness or injury, blindness can occur: 1  The lens may cloud, obscuring the light entering the eye. 2  The eye's shape can change, altering the image projected onto the retina. 3  The retina can degrade and deteriorate, affecting the perception of images. 1 The lens may cloud, obscuring the light entering the eye. 2  The eye's shape can change, altering the image projected onto the retina. 3  The retina can degrade and deteriorate, affecting the perception of images. 4  The optic nerve can become damaged, interrupting the flow of visual information to the brain.