It is, too, a comfort to the sheep for only in this way can its hidden problems be laid bare before the shepherd. Finally the shepherd's rod is an instrument of protection both for himself and his sheep when they are in danger. The connotation is exactly the same as that used in this Psalm. There is a second dimension in which the rod is used by the shepherd for the welfare of his sheep -- namely that of discipline. The club is used for this purpose perhaps more than any other.
2. He should know his sheep.  I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine  (John 10:14). Note the word know is the same word used of the intimate knowing of a man and wife. 3. He should know them by name. To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out (John 10:3).
The German Shepherd is not only one of the world's most popular companion dogs, but also probably the most widely used breed for service work. The development of the German Shepherd Dog, along with a number of existing breeds, helped pioneer the modern use of dogs for service and community work that we can see today. The most significant year in the early Australian history of the breed was 1929. This year saw the founding of the Alsatian Club of Victoria, which is now known as the German Shepherd Dog Club of Victoria Inc (GSDCV).
Somehow the staff is of special comfort to the shepherd himself. In the tough tramps and during the long weary watches with his sheep, he leans on it for support and strength. It becomes to him a most precious comfort and help in his duties. The connotation is exactly the same as that used in this Psalm. There is a second dimension in which the rod is used by the shepherd for the welfare of his sheep -- namely that of discipline. The club is used for this purpose perhaps more than any other.
When the shepherd is afield with his flock in the high country, it is customary for him to carry a minimum of equipment. This was especially true in olden times where the sheepmen did not have the benefit of mechanized equipment to transport camp supplies across the rough country. The connotation is exactly the same as that used in this Psalm. There is a second dimension in which the rod is used by the shepherd for the welfare of his sheep -- namely that of discipline. The club is used for this purpose perhaps more than any other.
Answer: I am the good shepherd (John 10:11) is the fourth of seven I am declarations of Jesus recorded only in John s Gospel. These I am proclamations point to His unique, divine identity and purpose. Immediately after declaring that He is the door in John 10:7, Jesus declares I am the good shepherd. In proclaiming that He is the Good Shepherd, Jesus speaks of laying down His life for His sheep (John 10:15, 17–18). Jesus death was divinely appointed. It is only through Him that we receive salvation. I am the good shepherd; and I know My sheep, and am known by My own (John 10:14).
The frequent use of the word shepherd to indicate a spiritual overseer is familiar to Bible readers (Psalms 23:1; 80:1; Ecclesiastes 12:11; Isaiah 40:4; 63:14; Jeremiah 31:10; Ezekiel 34:23; 37:24; John 21:15-17; Ephesians 4:11; 1 Peter 5:1-4). We still use the term pastor, literally, a shepherd.. He will feed his flock like a shepherd, he will gather the lambs in his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and will gently lead those that have their young (Isaiah 40:11) is a picture drawn from pastoral life of Yahweh's care over His children.
[ˈʃɛːfɐˌhʊnt]) is a breed of large-sized working dog that originated in Germany. The breed's officially recognized name is German Shepherd Dog in the English language, sometimes abbreviated as  GSD , and was also formerly known as the Alsatian and Alsatian Wolf Dog in Britain. The German Shepherd is a relatively new breed of dog, with their origin dating to 1899. As part of the Herding Group, German Shepherds are working dogs developed originally for herding sheep.
We turn now to discuss and consider the shepherd's staff. In a sense, the staff, more than any other item of his personal equipment, identifies the shepherd as a shepherd. No one in any other profession carries a shepherd's staff. It is uniquely an instrument used for the care and management of sheep -- and only sheep. The connotation is exactly the same as that used in this Psalm. There is a second dimension in which the rod is used by the shepherd for the welfare of his sheep -- namely that of discipline. The club is used for this purpose perhaps more than any other.