Managing respiratory failure and differentiating a myasthenia from a cholinergic crisis is reviewed. Due to the unpredictable development of respiratory failure, hospitalization is recommended for most patients with exacerbations or complications of myasthenia gravis.
Summary. 1  1. Crisis in myasthenia gravis is of two main types: True myasthenic crisis due to insufficient medication or drug resistance; and cholinergic crisis due to excess of cholinergic drugs. 2  2. 3  3. Differential diagnosis, treatment and prevention of crisis in myasthenia gravis are briefly presented.
1 1. Crisis in myasthenia gravis is of two main types: True myasthenic crisis due to insufficient medication or drug resistance; and cholinergic crisis due to excess of cholinergic drugs. 2  2.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. The biochemical phenomenon known as a cholinergic crisis is an episode of excessive stimulation at one of the body's neuromuscular junction points. Such an event results from a buildup of acetylcholine (ACh) stemming from acetylcholinesterase inactivity or insufficiency.
(December 2009). A cholinergic crisis is an over-stimulation at a neuromuscular junction due to an excess of acetylcholine (ACh), as of a result of the inactivity (perhaps even inhibition) of the AChE enzyme, which normally breaks down acetylcholine. This is a consequence of some types of nerve gas, (e.g. sarin gas).
cholinergic crisis, a pronounced muscular weakness and respiratory paralysis caused by excessive acetylcholine, often apparent in patients suffering from myasthenia gravis as a result of overmedication with anticholinesterase drugs.
A cholinergic crisis is a biochemical phenomenon which results in a bout of increased stimulation at one of the neuromuscular junction joints of the body. Such an episode is caused due to accumulation of Ach or acetylcholine, which stems from lack or inactivity of acetylcholinesterase.
Myasthenic crisis is a life-threatening condition, which is defined as weakness from acquired myasthenia gravis that is severe enough to necessitate intubation or to delay extubation following surgery [ 1 ]. The respiratory failure is due to weakness of respiratory muscles.