Neisseria gonorrhoeae, also known as gonococci (plural), or gonococcus (singular), is a species of Gram-negative coffee bean-shaped diplococci bacteria responsible for the sexually transmitted infection gonorrhea. 
Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) that can infect both men and women. It can cause infections in the genitals, rectum, and throat. It is a very common infection, especially among young people ages 15-24 years. 
Background. Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae, a bacterium that can infect areas of the reproductive tract, including the cervix, uterus, and fallopian tubes in women, and the urethra, mouth, throat, eyes, and anus of both men and women. 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae. by Yen Lemire. Introduction. Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the obligate human pathogen that causes the sexually transmitted disease (STD) gonorrhea. This Gram-negative diplococci/gonococci does not infect other animals or experimental animals and does not survive freely in the environment
Gonorrhea is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The infection is transmitted from one person to another through vaginal, oral, or anal sex. Men have a 20% risk of getting the infection from a single act of vaginal intercourse with an infected woman. The risk for men that have sex with men is higher. For other uses, see Clap. Gonorrhea, also known as gonnococcal infection, gonococcal urethritis, gonorrhoea and the clap, is a sexually transmitted infection that is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The usual symptoms in men are a burning sensation with urination and discharge from the penis.
Gonorrhea Causes. Gonorrhea is caused by the Neisseria gonorrhoeae bacteria. The infection is transmitted from one person to another through vaginal, oral, or anal sexual relations. 1  Men have a 20% chance of getting the infection by having sexual relations with a woman infected with gonorrhea
Gonorrhea-Cause. Gonorrhea is caused by the bacteria Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Gonorrhea is spread during vaginal, anal, or oral sex with an infected partner. A pregnant woman may pass the infection to her newborn during delivery. Gonorrhea can be transmitted at any time by a person who is infected with the bacteria Neisseria gonorrhoeae, whether or not symptoms are present. A person who is infected with gonorrhea is always contagious until he or she has been treated.
Introduction. Gonorrhoea is a sexually transmitted infection (STI) caused by bacteria called Neisseria gonorrhoeae or gonococcus. It used to be known as 'the clap'. The bacteria are mainly found in discharge from the penis and in vaginal fluid. 