1 The number of days you take antibiotics depends on your general health, how serious your sinusitis is, and the type of antibiotic you are taking. 2  A different antibiotic may be needed if your condition does not begin to improve within 3 to 5 days. When using antibiotics to treat chronic (long-term) sinusitis, it may be helpful to remember that: 1 
Best Answer: Amoxicillin is the preferred drug for sinus infections. It takes a few days to feel the effects, just like any antibiotic. You should probably also be taking a decongestant like Sudafed (pseudoephedrine) for the congestion. I have a bad sinus infection pressure in head and face my doctor gave me amoxicillin antibiotics. How long does it take for the medicine to start working? it&#39;s the 3rd day and I don&#39;t notice anything yet...
Get help from a doctor now ›. Half life 61 minutes: The half life of Amoxicillin is about 61 minutes. This means that after a single dose every 61 minutes half of the drug is gone until undetected. This is why there is a 3-4x daily dosage to make sure there is adequate blood concentration to fight he bacteria. 
Effects. Amoxicillin often is prescribed based on the level of infection. For example, amoxicillin used to treat an ear infection is often prescribed for 7 to 10 days, or given in three injections. However, for a urinary tract infection, which is often more severe, antibiotics are often taken for 14 days to ensure the infection has fully cleared. For Best Results. Amoxicillin can best work when it is kept in steady levels in the body. For this reason, it is often prescribed to be taken every 8 to 12 hours. If you miss a dose, resume taking the medication as soon as possible.
1 The choice of antibiotic often depends on which antibiotics have worked well for you in the past. 2  If an antibiotic normally used to treat your sinusitis was successful in the past, it may be used again. 3  If it did not work very well, a different antibiotic may be tried. When using antibiotics to treat chronic (long-term) sinusitis, it may be helpful to remember that: 1  The number of days you take antibiotics depends on your general health, how serious your sinusitis is, and the type of antibiotic you are taking.
Amoxicillin usually starts working in 24-72 hours showing some improvements if the organism is susceptible to amoxicillin. For me it will work with on 24 hours. I have a bad sinus infection pressure in head and face my doctor gave me amoxicillin antibiotics. How long does it take for the medicine to start working? it&#39;s the 3rd day and I don&#39;t notice anything yet...
Chronic sinusitis. When using antibiotics to treat chronic (long-term) sinusitis, it may be helpful to remember that: 1  The number of days you take antibiotics depends on your general health, how serious your sinusitis is, and the type of antibiotic you are taking.
Once amoxicillin is taken, it begins to attack the infection in the body. After 2 to 3 days of taking the medication at the recommended dosage, a person begins to experience relief of symptoms. This does not, however, mean the infection is fully cleared. For Best Results. Amoxicillin can best work when it is kept in steady levels in the body. For this reason, it is often prescribed to be taken every 8 to 12 hours. If you miss a dose, resume taking the medication as soon as possible.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It really depends on a LOT of different factors. The amoxicillin will start killing bacteria immediately, but even under the best of circumstances it will take two or three days to kill off all the infectious bacteria. Then your body has to heal-which involves repairing any damage to your lungs and draining that excess fluid out. 