Following these simple tips will help you get your arm stronger to make throwing the football easier than before. 1  Practice throwing the football, even in the offseason. 2  Do strength exercises using weight or resistance training. 3  Remember to use your legs when you throw the ball. 4  Improve your throwing motion.
Focus on length. A great fast bowler will pitch most of his deliveries good length, and will bowl the occasional yorker or bouncer to stump the batsman. Try not to bowl too short or too full, as those tend to be hit away for boundaries.
The hand, arms and forearms are used extensively in bowling so these are good muscles to strengthen. Warm up properly before exercising. Wrist stretch: Start with one arm out in front of you with your palm facing up.
Part 1 of 3: Working on Your Delivery. 1. Record a video of your bowling delivery to analyze. It is much easier to evaluate and understand how you are bowling if you are able to watch yourself. 1  Set up a cell phone or video recorder to record your delivery. 2  Bowl several deliveries to get a good measure of your form.
1 Try not to get your arm overly high. 2  If you imagine a 12-hour clock, as viewed from the batsman's end, the bowling arm can be any hour before 12 but not a minute past. 3  For every minute you go past 12 o'clock you are affectively leaning across to bowl and this reduces both your speed and accuracy.
Use swing and cut. Fast bowlers tend to swing or cut the ball many times when they bowl. Cut is used to surprise batsman after the ball bounces. A leg cutter may be used to get the batsman caught behind or caught at slip. An off cutter is generally used to either bowl the batsman or get him LBW. Although cut is very helpful to a bowler, how a bowler swings may sometimes define him as a fast bowler.
(Triceps and Biceps). Once you start to see just how much you can lift on these arm exercises and the results you will start to see from doing them, you'll realize just how fast you can build big arms. This is most likely due to the fact that each of these exercises add size to the arms.