Secondary hypertension. Some people have high blood pressure caused by an underlying condition. This type of high blood pressure, called secondary hypertension, tends to appear suddenly and cause higher blood pressure than does primary hypertension. Various conditions and medications can lead to secondary hypertension, including:
High blood pressure, also called hypertension, is dangerous because it makes the heart work harder to pump blood out to the body and contributes to hardening of the arteries, or atherosclerosis, to stroke, kidney disease, and to the development of heart failure. 
Narrowing of the arteries that carry blood to the kidneys can also cause high blood pressure, as this tricks the kidneys into thinking blood pressure is low, and they respond by releasing hormones to raise blood pressure. This is a condition known as renovascular hypertension. Most people with hypertension have the primary form. This type of high blood pressure is caused by high-salt diets, being overweight, or using alcohol or tobacco. Some medications can also cause it, and it can be genetic. Secondary hypertension is different and is related to an underlying condition.
1 Hypertension itself does not cause symptoms but in the long-term leads to complications caused by narrowing of blood vessels. 2  Doctors diagnose high blood pressure over a number of visits using a sphygmomanometer, which involves applying an inflatable cuff to the upper arm. Blood pressure is the force exerted by the blood against the walls of blood vessels, and the magnitude of this force depends on the cardiac output and the resistance of the blood vessels. 4. The blood flowing inside vessels exerts a force against the walls-this is blood pressure.
Hypertension (HTN or HT), also known as high blood pressure or arterial hypertension, is a chronic medical condition in which the blood pressure in the arteries is persistently elevated. Hypertension is classified as either primary (essential) hypertension or secondary hypertension. About 90–95% of cases are categorized as primary hypertension, defined as high blood pressure with no obvious underlying cause.
Having hypertension (or high blood pressure) means that the pressure to which your arteries pump blood from your heart to the rest of your organs and throughout your body is too great. This abnormal blood pressure is what puts stress on the heart and causes premature death. High blood pressure is an issue if the systolic blood pressure (when your heart pumps) is over 140 and the diastolic blood pressure (when your heart relaxes) is over 90. Here are ten common causes of hypertension….
1 Hypertension is a blood pressure higher than 140 over 90 mmHg (millimeters of mercury). 2  One or both readings can be high, either the first, systolic reading (the pressure as the heart pumps blood around the body) or the diastolic one (as the heart relaxes and refills with blood). Blood pressure is the force exerted by the blood against the walls of blood vessels, and the magnitude of this force depends on the cardiac output and the resistance of the blood vessels. 4. The blood flowing inside vessels exerts a force against the walls-this is blood pressure.
High blood pressure (hypertension) is defined as high pressure (tension) in the arteries, which are the vessels that carry blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Blood pressure readings are given as two numbers. 
Kidney disease is the most common secondary cause of hypertension. Hypertension can also be caused by endocrine conditions, such as Cushing's syndrome, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, acromegaly, Conn's syndrome or hyperaldosteronism, hyperparathyroidism and pheochromocytoma. Hypertension is classified as either primary (essential) hypertension or secondary hypertension. About 90–95% of cases are categorized as primary hypertension, defined as high blood pressure with no obvious underlying cause.
The organs in your body need oxygen to survive. Oxygen is carried through the body by the blood. When the heart beats, it creates pressure that pushes blood through a network of tube-shaped arteries and veins, also known as blood vessels and capillaries. The pressure --- blood pressure --- is the result of two forces.