molecular genetics (the branch of genetics concerned with the structure and activity of genetic material at the molecular level). pharmacogenetics (the branch of genetics that studies the genetically determined variations in responses to drugs in humans or laboratory organisms).eteroploid ((genetics) an organism or cell having a chromosome number that is not an even multiple of the haploid chromosome number for that species). haploid ((genetics) an organism or cell having only one complete set of chromosomes).
Evidence that DNA is the Genetic Material. DNA and the Genetic Code ... Genetic material. Two different kinds of genetic material exist: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA). Most organ isms use DNA for their long-term information storage, but some virus es (e.g., retrovirus es) have RNA as their genetic material. gene, a part of a gene, a group of genes, or fragments of many genes, on a molecule of dna, a fragment of dna, a group of dna molecule s, or fragments of many dna molecule s. Could refer to anything from a small fragment of dna to the entire genome of an organ ism.
Please try again later. Deoxyribonucleic Acid is what we mean when we talk about the term -- DNA. If you want to keep things simple then think of DNA as a Code. It is the Code of our Generic material of our cells.
In modern molecular biology and genetics, the genome is the genetic material of an organism. It consists of DNA (or RNA in RNA viruses). The genome includes both the genes and the non-coding sequences of the DNA/RNA.
Genetic material. Definition. noun. The genetic material of a cell or an organism refers to those materials found in the nucleus, mitochondria and cytoplasm, which play a fundamental role in determining the structure and nature of cell substances, and capable of self-propagating and variation. Supplement. The genetic material of a cell can be a gene, a part of a gene, a group of genes, a DNA molecule, a fragment of DNA, a group of DNA molecules, or the entire genome of an organism. See also: gene, chromosome, genotype.
Genetic material. Genetic material. a gene, a part of a gene, a group of genes, or fragments of many genes, on a molecule of dna, a fragment of dna, a group of dna molecule s, or fragments of many dna molecule s. Could refer to anything from a small fragment of dna to the entire genome of an organ ism.
Example Sentences Including 'genetic material'. Instead they wanted the sex of the birds to be determined from genetic material collected from the shafts of plucked feathers. In theory, a single egg before its final reduction possessed all the genetic material needed to produce a complete offspring.
Genetics is the study of genes, heredity, and genetic variation in living organisms. It is generally considered a field of biology, but it intersects frequently with many of the life sciences and is strongly linked with the study of information systems.he father of genetics is Gregor Mendel, a late 19th-century scientist and Augustinian friar. Mendel studied 'trait inheritance', patterns in the way traits were handed down from parents to offspring. He observed that organisms (pea plants) inherit traits by way of discrete units of inheritance.