The lymphatic system is a network of very small tubes (or vessels) that drain lymph fluid from all over the body. The major parts of the lymph tissue are located in the bone marrow, spleen, thymus gland, lymph nodes, and the tonsils. The heart, lungs, intestines, liver, and skin also contain lymphatic tissue. 
The lymph vessels carry lymph from the tissues through the lymph nodes, where lymphocytes neutralize or kill and macrophages consume pathogens, then deliver the cleansed fluid to the blood. The lymphatic capillaries merge into the afferent lymphatics, somewhat larger lymph vessels that carry the lymph among the lymph nodes. The lymphatic capillaries in the SMALL INTESTINE, called lacteals, are uniquely able to absorb the fatty products of digestion, which they ultimately deliver
Best Answer: The lymphatic system is a complex network of lymphoid organs, lymph nodes, lymph ducts, and lymph vessels that produce and transport lymph fluid from tissues to the circulatory system. The lymphatic system is a major component of the immune system. Lymph is made of interstitial fluid. The lymphatic vessels carry the lymph to the lymph nodes to be filtered and cleaned. Then the clean lymph is returned to the blood vessels. The lymph nodes return about 2-3 liters of fluid per day
Lymphatic vessels are structures of the lymphatic system that transport fluid away from tissues. Lymphatic vessels are similar to blood vessels, but they don't carry blood. The fluid transported by lymphatic vessels is called lymph. This fluid becomes the interstitial fluid that surrounds cells. Lymph vessels collect and filter this fluid before directing it toward blood vessels near the heart. It is here that lymph re-enters blood circulation. Returning lymph to the blood helps to maintain normal blood volume and pressure.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. 
In anatomy, lymphatic vessels or lymph vessels are thin walled, valved structures that carry lymph. As part of the lymphatic system, lymph vessels are complementary to the cardiovascular system. Lymph vessels are lined by endothelial cells, and have a thin layer of smooth muscles, and adventitia that bind the lymph vessels to the surrounding tissue. Lymph vessels are devoted to propulsion of the lymph from the lymph capillaries, which are mainly concerned with absorption of interstitial fluid from the tissues. Lymph capillaries are slightly larger than their counterpart capillaries of the vascular system. Generally, lymph flows away from the tissues to lymph nodes and eventually to either the right lymphatic duct or the largest lymph vessel in the body, the thoracic duct. These vessels drain into the right and left subclavian veins respectively.
Lymphatic vessels carry lymph to and from lymph nodes, where the lymph is filtered for potentially threatening agents, such as bacteria, fungi, or cancer cells. When a threat is detected, your lymph nodes react by producing immune cells, antibodies, and inflammatory chemicals. Mingled among the blood capillaries throughout your body is another network of tiny, thin-walled vessels called lymphatic capillaries. Lymphatic capillaries are designed to pick up the fluid that leaks into your tissues from your bloodstream and return it to your circulatory system.
Transportation of the lymph is the most important function of the lymphatic vessels of the lymph nodes. The lymph nodes then act as filters to filter out impurities from the b … lood vessels and produce antibodies. A vessel that, unlike a blood vessel, carries fluid only away from tissues. This fluid is a pale, watery substance known as lymph. The smallest lymph vessels are the lymph ca … pillaries, which begin in the tissue spaces as blind-ended sacs.
The lymphatic system is composed of lymph vessels, lymph nodes, and organs. The functions of this system include the absorbtion of excess fluid and its return to the blood stream, absorption of fat (in the villi of the small intestine) and the immune system function. 
The smallest of the lymph vessels are the lymphatic capillaries, which arise from cul-de-sac structures within the interstitial fluid (fluid between the cells) in the tissues surrounding the CAPILLARY BEDS of the cardiovascular system. The lymphatic capillaries merge into the afferent lymphatics, somewhat larger lymph vessels that carry the lymph among the lymph nodes. The lymphatic capillaries in the SMALL INTESTINE, called lacteals, are uniquely able to absorb the fatty products of digestion, which they ultimately deliver to the blood.