In increasing numbers of cases, however, employers are being confronted with lawsuits against their employees. The employees then usually turn to the employer, requesting the employer to pay for the defense of the lawsuit and, if an adverse result ensues, for any damages assessed against the employee. First, when management employees are sued for actions taken in the course of their employment, the employer may feel that it is simply unfair to expect the employee to defend himself or herself against the litigation.
Wrongful termination is a catchall term that refers to all the types of legal claims employees can make against employers for firing them for illegal reasons. Most employees in the United States work at will, which means they can quit at any time and they can be fired at any time, for any reason that's not illegal. The damages available to a winning employee in a wrongful termination lawsuit depends on whether the employee is suing for breach of contract, discrimination, or some other legal claim. Talk to an Employment Lawyer.
For example, if an employee has a two-year contract stating that the employee can be fired only for committing a crime, and the employer fires the employee after only one year for poor performance, the employee has a breach of contract claim. The damages available to a winning employee in a wrongful termination lawsuit depends on whether the employee is suing for breach of contract, discrimination, or some other legal claim. Talk to an Employment Lawyer.
An Employer's Liability for Employee's Acts. Download article as a PDF. Employers, and not the employees themselves, will often be held liable for the conduct of their employees. This is true even if the employer had no intention to cause harm and played no physical role in the harm. 1 The employer is likely liable for the car accident. 2  Example 2b: A company gives its employees cell phones to enable them to call into meetings and stay in touch while traveling. 3  An employee decides to call his mom to let her know that he'll be in town next week to visit.
Job-Related Accidents. Employers are vicariously liable under the doctrine of respondeat superior for the negligent acts or omissions by their employees in the course of employment. The key phrase is in the course of employment. 1 The employer is likely liable for the car accident. 2  Example 2b: A company gives its employees cell phones to enable them to call into meetings and stay in touch while traveling. 3  An employee decides to call his mom to let her know that he'll be in town next week to visit.
These cases, and their predecessors, make it clear that employers cannot contract away liability for discriminatory acts. In the first case, Brown v. J. Kaz, Inc. d/b/a Craftmatic, Craftmatic advertised for applicants for an independent contractor sales position. FOR DISCRIMINATORY ACTS. by Heather R. Baldwin Vlasuk. Two recent federal court decisions remind employers that they can be held liable for discriminatory acts against their independent contractors as well as for acts taken by their independent contractors against third parties.
Whether or not the employer is held liable for the wrongful acts of its employee, the employer may be requested to provide a defense for an employee who is sued individually (with or without the employer), and may be asked to pay any judgment obtained against the employee. First, when management employees are sued for actions taken in the course of their employment, the employer may feel that it is simply unfair to expect the employee to defend himself or herself against the litigation.
EPLI covers employers against claims made by workers who have sued the company for violating their legal rights as employees. 4 4 Darin J. McMullen, The ABC’s of Employment Practices Liability Insurance Coverage, Risk Management Magazine, 2013. 
Share. Your liability as an employer under various employment laws, including wage and hour law, payroll taxes, and anti-discrimination laws depends on various factors including whether your workers are classified as employees and the number of employees you have working for you. Related Content.