Vascular plants include the clubmosses, horsetails, ferns, gymnosperms (including conifers) and angiosperms (flowering plants). Scientific names for the group include Tracheophyta and Tracheobionta. 1 In vascular plants, the principal generation phase is the sporophyte, which is usually diploid with two sets of chromosomes per cell. 2  Only the germ cells and gametophytes are haploid.
The flora of Australia comprises a vast assemblage of plant species estimated to over 20,000 vascular and 14,000 non-vascular plants, 250,000 species of fungi and over 3,000 lichens. Australia has over 30,000 described species of vascular plants, these include the angiosperms, seed-bearing non-angiosperms (like the conifers and cycads), and the spore-bearing ferns and fern allies.
Alabama, with over 4,000 species of native or naturalized pteridophytes and seed plants, is the fifth most floristically diverse state in the United States. The Alabama Plant Atlas provides a source of information for each species including the distribution within the state using historical and recent data. The Alabama Herbarium Consortium was unofficially established as the Flora of Alabama Checklist Committee in 2001 in order to create a checklist of all vascular plant species that occur in the state. The AHC is composed of state herbaria and affiliated staff that curate a wealth of data detailing the flora of Alabama.
Vascular plants (from Latin vasculum: duct), also known as tracheophytes (from the equivalent Greek term trachea) and also higher plants, form a large group of plants that are defined as those land plants that have lignified tissues (the xylem) for conducting water and minerals throughout the plant. 1 In vascular plants, the principal generation phase is the sporophyte, which is usually diploid with two sets of chromosomes per cell. 2  Only the germ cells and gametophytes are haploid.
Vascular Plants. Below, the more than 560 species of vascular plants known from NATL are listed alphabetically by scientific name. To look for a plant by its common name, see the list of plants by common name.
1 Vascular plants have vascular tissues which distribute resources through the plant. 2  This feature allows vascular plants to evolve to a larger size than non-vascular plants, which lack these specialized conducting tissues and are therefore restricted to relatively small sizes. 1 In vascular plants, the principal generation phase is the sporophyte, which is usually diploid with two sets of chromosomes per cell. 2  Only the germ cells and gametophytes are haploid.
Florida, with over 4,200 species of native or naturalized ferns and seed plants, is the third most floristically diverse state in the United States. The Atlas of Florida Vascular Plants provides a source of information for the distribution of plants within the state. 
There are only two native vascular plants in Antarctica: Antarctic hair grass and Antarctic pearlwort. These species are found in small clumps near the shore of the west coast of the Antarctic Peninsula, where temperatures are milder and there is more precipitation. 