New York is the only city in the United States where over half of all households do not own a car (Manhattan's non-ownership is even higher-around 75%; nationally, the rate is 8%). New York City also has the longest mean travel time for commuters (39 minutes) among major U.S. cities. New York City has, by far, the highest rate of public transportation use of any American city, with 54.2% of workers commuting to work by this means in 2006. About one in every three users of mass transit in the United States and two-thirds of the nation's rail riders live in New York City or its suburbs.
The New York City Subway is one of the world's oldest public transit systems, one of the world's most used metro systems, and the metro system with the most stations and the most trackage. It offers rail service 24 hours per day and every day of the year. The MTA set up another technology pilot project for the New York City Subway called Help Point in April 5, 2011. Help Point is a new digital-audio communications system that lets a rider access it, in case of an emergency or needing subway information for travel directions.
The New York City Subway is a rapid transit system owned by the City of New York and leased to the New York City Transit Authority, a subsidiary agency of the state-run Metropolitan Transportation Authority. The MTA set up another technology pilot project for the New York City Subway called Help Point in April 5, 2011. Help Point is a new digital-audio communications system that lets a rider access it, in case of an emergency or needing subway information for travel directions.
Method. We divided NYC into 2,930 hexagons and calculated the time it would take to travel by subway and walking from the center of each hexagon to every other using OpenTripPlanner and the MTA's subway schedule data. We simulated each trip as starting at 9 a.m. on a weekday. Pick a start point and see subway travel times to everywhere else in NYC. Just click the map or enter an address. Staten Island Railway included; ferries, buses and bikes are not.
The New York City Subway is the largest rapid transit system in the world by number of stations, with 469 stations in operation (422, if stations connected by transfers are counted as single stations). The MTA set up another technology pilot project for the New York City Subway called Help Point in April 5, 2011. Help Point is a new digital-audio communications system that lets a rider access it, in case of an emergency or needing subway information for travel directions.
Of all people who commute to work in New York City, 41% use the subway, 24% drive alone, 12% take the bus, 10% walk to work, 2% travel by commuter rail, 5% carpool, 1% use a taxi, 0.6% ride their bicycle to work, and 0.2% travel by ferry. New York City has, by far, the highest rate of public transportation use of any American city, with 54.2% of workers commuting to work by this means in 2006. About one in every three users of mass transit in the United States and two-thirds of the nation's rail riders live in New York City or its suburbs.
The nonprofit Partnership for New York City urges the city to continue improving public transportation options reduce mind-numbing commute times. John Kelly, 48, spends nearly 90 minutes riding NJ Transit into midtown from Chatham, N.J., for his job in wealth management. The Partnership for New York City found the average New Yorker spends 48 minutes getting to work — 13 minutes above the national average.
Workers in the Big Apple have the longest commute times in the country, according to a report released Tuesday. New Yorkers on average spend 48 minutes going to work, according to the Partnership for New York City. That’s 13 minutes more than the national average, and means New Yorkers spend nearly two hours just going to and coming from the daily grind. The Partnership for New York City found the average New Yorker spends 48 minutes getting to work — 13 minutes above the national average.