Sure. It's not that hard. Let's say that there is a small dam in your area that is not used to produce electricity. Maybe the dam is used to provide water to irrigate farmlands or maybe it was built to make a lake for recreation. As we explained above, you need to know two things: 1  How far the water falls.
Self weight of the dam is the only largest force which stabilizes the structure. The total weight of the dam is supposed to act through the centre of gravity of the dam section in vertically downward direction. Naturally when specific weight of the material of construction is high, restoring force will be more.
GeForce ShadowPlay™ is the easiest way to capture your favourite gaming moments. It's also the quickest way to broadcast your game on Twitch. ShadowPlay runs in the background, so you can record or broadcast at any time.
(i) Upstream face of the dam is vertical and there is no water on the downstream side of the dam (figure 1). Figure 1. The total pressure is in horizontal direction and acts on the upstream face at a height from the bottom.
In the design of a dam, the first step is the determination of various forces which acts on the structure and study their nature. Depending upon the situation, the dam is subjected to the following forces: 1. Water pressure. 2. Earthquake forces. 3. Silt pressure. 4. Wave pressure. 5. Ice pressure. 6.
Hydropower plants capture the energy of falling water to generate electricity. A turbine converts the kinetic energy of falling water into mechanical energy. Then a generator converts the mechanical energy from the turbine into electr
Hoover Dam generates, on average, about 4 billion kilowatt-hours of hydroelectric power each year for use in Nevada, Arizona, and California-enough to serve 1.3 million people. From 1939 to 1949, Hoover Powerplant was the world's largest hydroelectric installation; today, it is still one of the country's largest.
The main purpose of most dams is to create a permanent reservoir of water for use at a later time. The dam must be watertight (ie impermeable or impervious to water) so that water does not leak out of the dam and escape downstream.