SPECT: An acronym that stands for Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography, a nuclear medicine procedure in which a gamma camera rotates around the patient and takes pictures from many angles, which a computer then uses to form a tomographic (cross-sectional) image. 
The meaning of spect is to look. Here are two examples of spect:   inspect; to inspect means to look over something carefully.   Spectator; someone who is a spectator, … is someone who watches, like an observer.   For examples, or meanings of words you can look at:   http://dictionary.reference.com/   To search the meaning of a prefix or rootword you can go to:   http://www.virtualsalt.com/roots.htm   Hope that Helps!
The meaning of spect is to look. Here are two examples of spect:   inspect; to inspect means to look over something carefully.   Spectator; someone who is a spectator, … is someone who watches, like an observer.   For examples, or meanings of words you can look at:   http://dictionary.reference.com/   To search the meaning of a prefix or rootword you can go to:   http://www.virtualsalt.com/roots.htm   Hope that Helps!
The tracer is what allows doctors to see how blood flows to tissues and organs. Before the SPECT scan, you are injected with a chemical that is radiolabled, meaning it emits gamma rays that can be detected by the scanner. The computer collects the information emitted by the gamma rays and translates them into two-dimensional cross-sections. 
The Latin root word spect and its variant spic both mean “see.” These roots are the word origin of a fair number of English vocabulary words, including spect ator, re spect, au spic ious and su spic ion. Spectacles Make the World Conspicuous! The Latin root word spect and its variant spic both mean “see.” Today you will “see” just how con spic uous these two roots are in the English language, especially when you use your spect acles to do so!
An acronym that stands for Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography, a nuclear medicine procedure in which a gamma camera rotates around the patient and takes pictures from … many angles, which a computer then uses to form a tomographic (cross-sectional) image. Spectator; someone who is a spectator, … is someone who watches, like an observer.   For examples, or meanings of words you can look at:   http://dictionary.reference.com/   To search the meaning of a prefix or rootword you can go to:   http://www.virtualsalt.com/roots.htm   Hope that Helps!
A SPECT scan of the heart is a noninvasive nuclear imaging test. It uses radioactive tracers that are injected into the blood to produce pictures of your heart. Doctors use SPECT to diagnose coronary artery disease and find out if a heart attack has occurred. 
What does 'spect' mean? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. What was it like working with actors who will be digitally transformed into apes? What is the meaning of the root word spect? Where can a spect scan be done in Toronto on? What is a spect-actor? What is the medical test SPECT? Wor Spectator; someone who is a spectator, … is someone who watches, like an observer.   For examples, or meanings of words you can look at:   http://dictionary.reference.com/   To search the meaning of a prefix or rootword you can go to:   http://www.virtualsalt.com/roots.htm   Hope that Helps!
A single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) scan lets your doctor analyze the function of some of your internal organs. A SPECT scan is a type of nuclear imaging test, which means it uses a radioactive substance and a special camera to create 3-D pictures. While imaging tests like X-rays can show what the structures inside your body look like, a SPECT scan produces images that show how your organs work. For instance, a SPECT scan can show how blood flows to your heart or what areas of your brain are more active or less active. 1  Why it's done. 
Animation of a SPECT scanning procedure. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT, or less commonly, SPET) is a nuclear medicine tomographic imaging technique using gamma rays. It is very similar to conventional nuclear medicine planar imaging using a gamma camera. However, it is able to provide true 3D information. 