It is bordered by Rhode Island to the east, Massachusetts to the north, New York to the west, and Long Island Sound to the south. Its capital city is Hartford, and its most populous city is Bridgeport. The state is named after the Connecticut River, a major U.S. river that approximately bisects the state. Connecticut is known as the Constitution State.. While the origin of this title is uncertain, the nickname may either refer to the Fundamental Orders of 1638–39 or possibly the Great Compromise (Connecticut Compromise) of the 1787 Constitutional convention.
Departments and Agencies. The following is a list of the Constitutional Offices of Connecticut State Government. The duties and terms of these elected offices represent state government leadership and are defined by the Connecticut Constitution. These are a few of the most used agencies on CT.gov. 1  Dept. of Motor Vehicles. 2  Dept. of Energy and Environmental Protection. 3  Dept. of Revenue Services. 4  Dept. of Public Health. 5  Dept. of Transportation. 6  State Dept. of Education.
Welcome to the Core-CT Website. Welcome to the home page for Core-CT, Connecticut state government's integrated human resources, payroll, and financial system. Based on your role, use the links to the left to navigate to pages designed for you. The new Core-CT URL is https://corect.ct.gov/PEPRD/signon.html and it no longer references a port number. Your 'Favorites' links need to be deleted and re-added to point to the new link.
Connecticut (/kəˈnɛtɨkət/ , kə-NET-i-kət) is the southernmost state in the region of the United States known as New England. Connecticut is also often grouped along with New York and New Jersey as the Tri-State area. Connecticut is known as the Constitution State.. While the origin of this title is uncertain, the nickname may either refer to the Fundamental Orders of 1638–39 or possibly the Great Compromise (Connecticut Compromise) of the 1787 Constitutional convention.
Much of southern and western Connecticut (along with the majority of the state's population) is part of the New York metropolitan area: three of Connecticut's eight counties are statistically included in the New York City combined statistical area, which is widely referred to as the Tri-State area. Connecticut is known as the Constitution State.. While the origin of this title is uncertain, the nickname may either refer to the Fundamental Orders of 1638–39 or possibly the Great Compromise (Connecticut Compromise) of the 1787 Constitutional convention.
CT-HR-13 State of Connecticut Addendum to the Application Form for Examination and Employment – Criminal Convictions (CT-HR-13) (Only complete this form if you are specifically instructed to do so on a job posting or by a hiring agency.). This application form is not to be used for the following examinations: State Police Trooper Trainee, Correction Officer, Protective Services Trainee (Police), State Marshal, Office Assistant and Secretary 1. CT-HR-12 State of Connecticut Application Form for Examination and Employment. (PDF fillable).
The transition to CSCU is easier than ever. The 17 Connecticut State Colleges & Universities (CSCU) provide affordable, innovative and rigorous programs that permit students to achieve their personal and career goals, as well as contribute to the economic growth of Connecticut. 
The state capital and third largest city is Hartford, and other major cities and towns (by population) include Bridgeport, New Haven, Stamford, Waterbury, Norwalk, Danbury, New Britain, Greenwich and Bristol. Connecticut is slightly larger than the country of Montenegro. Connecticut is known as the Constitution State.. While the origin of this title is uncertain, the nickname may either refer to the Fundamental Orders of 1638–39 or possibly the Great Compromise (Connecticut Compromise) of the 1787 Constitutional convention.
Connecticut, the southernmost New England state, is bounded by Long Island Sound on the south, Rhode Island on the east, New York State on the west, and Massachusetts on the north. The finger-like extension of Fairfield Country is an easy drive to and from New York City. Connecticut is the nearest New England state to New York, Pennsylvania and points south for a short getaway. Click here to view a map of Connecticut.