These autonomic neurons are under the influences of (a) the incoming impulses from visceral or somatic afferent fibers, and (b) the descending impulses from the higher parts of the central nervous system, especially the limbic system and the hypothalamus. (1) Metabolic turnover of acetylcholine. The biosynthesis, storage and release of acetylcholine by the cholinergic fibers in the autonomic nervous system are essentially the same as in the somatic efferents.
Figure 1. Overview of effects of the activation of (a) the sympathetic nervous system, where norepinephrine acts as the main neurotransmitter, and (b) the adrenomedullary hormonal system, where epinephrine acts as the main hormone. Sympathetic nervous system. A major component of the autonomic nervous system. The main sympathetic neurotransmitter for cardiovascular regulation is norepinephrine. The main sympathetic neurotransmitter for sweating is acetylcholine.
The sympathetic nervous system and adrenomedullary hormonal system are major components of the autonomic nervous system. The main sympathetic neurotransmitter for cardiovascular regulation is norepinephrine, whereas the main sympathetic neurotransmitter for sweating is acetylcholine. Sympathetic nervous system. A major component of the autonomic nervous system. The main sympathetic neurotransmitter for cardiovascular regulation is norepinephrine. T
Abstract. The concept of chemical neurotransmission arose from detailed studies on the functioning of the autonomic nervous system, particularly those of T. R. Elliott, H. H. Dale and Otto Loewi during the first three decades of the 20th century. 
1.1. The autonomic nervous system is comprised of the efferent neurons that innervate smooth muscle, cardiac muscle and the exocrine glands. Thus, it is distinguished from the somatic efferent nervous system, which supplies skeletal muscle. (1) Metabolic turnover of acetylcholine. The biosynthesis, storage and release of acetylcholine by the cholinergic fibers in the autonomic nervous system are essentially the same as in the somatic efferents.
The afferent fibers of the autonomic nervous system, which transmit sensory information from the internal organs of the body back to the central nervous system, are not divided into parasympathetic and sympathetic fibers as the efferent fibers are. Nerve fibres of the parasympathetic nervous system arise from the central nervous system. Specific nerves include several cranial nerves, specifically the oculomotor nerve, facial nerve, glossopharyngeal nerve, and vagus nerve.
Acetylcholine is also used as a neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system, both as an internal transmitter for the sympathetic nervous system and as the final product released by the parasympathetic nervous system. Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions.
Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system. Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions.
The sympathetic nervous system is composed of the autonomic nerves exiting from the thoracic and lumbar segments of the spinal cord, whereas the parasympathetic nervous system consists of the nerves emerging from the lower brain stem and the sacral cord. (1) Metabolic turnover of acetylcholine. The biosynthesis, storage and release of acetylcholine by the cholinergic fibers in the autonomic nervous system are essentially the same as in the somatic efferents.