The fusiform gyrus, also known as the (discontinuous) occipitotemporal gyrus, is part of the temporal lobe and occipital lobe in Brodmann area 37. The fusiform gyrus has a contentious history that has recently been clarifed. Emil Huschke first labeled the fusiform gyrus in 1854. Huschke also labeled the lingual gyrus, as well as the lingual sulcus.
[1]. The fusiform gyrus is part of the temporal lobe and occipital lobe in Brodmann area 37. It is also known as the (discontinuous) occipitotemporal gyrus. The fusiform gyrus is located between the inferior temporal gyrus and the parahippocampal gyrus. The lateral and medial portions are separated by the shallow mid fusiform sulcus. Research has also shown that the fusiform face area, the area within the fusiform gyrus, is heavily involved in face perception but only to any generic within-category identification that is shown to be one of the functions of the fusiform gyrus.
Though the functionality of the fusiform gyrus is not fully understood, it has been linked with various neural pathways related to recognition. Additionally, it has been linked to various neurological phenomena such as synesthesia, dyslexia, and prosopagnosia. The fusiform gyrus has a contentious history that has recently been clarifed. Emil Huschke first labeled the fusiform gyrus in 1854. Huschke also labeled the lingual gyrus, as well as the lingual sulcus.
fusiform gyrus one on the inferior surface of the hemisphere between the inferior temporal and parahippocampal gyri, consisting of a lateral (lateral occipitotemporal gyrus) and a medial (medial occipitotemporal gyrus) part. 
frontal gyrus any of the three (inferior, middle, and superior) gyri of the frontal lobe. fusiform gyrus one on the inferior surface of the hemisphere between the inferior temporal and parahippocampal gyri, consisting of a lateral (lateral occipitotemporal gyrus) and a medial (medial occipitotemporal gyrus) part. A gyrus of the ventral region of the parietal lobe; it caps the posterior (ascending) end of the superior temporal sulcus, and it is just ventral to the supramarginal gyrus. The cortex of the angular gyrus plays a role in the association of the visual and tactile perceptions of forms and shapes.
The fusiform face area (FFA) is a part of the human visual system that, it is speculated, is specialized for facial recognition, although there is some evidence that it also processes categorical information about other objects, in particular familiar ones. The FFA is located in the ventral stream on the ventral surface of the temporal lobe on the lateral side of the fusiform gyrus. It is lateral to the parahippocampal place area. It displays some lateralization, usually being larger in the right hemisphere.
By Elizabeth Norton. The ability to recognize faces is so important in humans that the brain appears to have an area solely devoted to the task: the fusiform gyrus. Brain imaging studies consistently find that this region of the temporal lobe becomes active when people look at faces. 
This section of the fusiform gyrus is largely responsible just for perceiving the presence of a face. Even non-living objects that resemble faces will cause this region to activate. The fusiform face area does, however, have connections with other brain regions to expand the uses of facial recognition. The fusiform gyrus plays several essential roles in high-level visual processing and recognition. Within this ridged area, there are specialized groups of cells, called neurons, that play a role in
the ridge on the lower surface of each temporal lobe in the brain. It lies between the inferior temporal gyrus and the parahippocampal gyrus. Is involved in high-level visual perception. FUSIFORM GYRUS: We use the fusiform gyrus for visual perception.. 