Average annual temperatures for cities, towns and parks throughout Alaska are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum yearly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Southeast, South-Central, Southwest, Interior and Far North Alaska.
The Interior Region of Alaska enjoys warm summers. Ft. Yukon holds the state's high temperature record: 100 F in June, 1915! Fairbanks often has summer temperatures in the 80s and occasionally gets up into the 90s. Weather & Climate. Whenever and wherever you travel in The Great Land, clothing is always a primary consideration. Emphasis should be based on comfort because the dress code is informal and casual. A layered technique is extremely good here. Temperatures in Alaska during the summer range from 60°F-80°F. Nighttime and early mornings are cooler, from the 40's - 50's. Late August and September departures could encounter cooler temperatures and slightly fewer hours of sunlight, as fall arrives early at these latitude
Average daytime summer temperatures range from approximately 55 to 78 degrees Fahrenheit (13 to 26 degrees Celsius); average daytime winter temperatures are about 5 to 30 degrees (-15 to -1 degrees Celsius). Anchorage has a frost-free growing season that averages slightly over 100 days. Average January low and high temperatures at Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport (PANC) are 11 °F/23 °F (-11 °C/-5 °C) with an average winter snowfall of 75.5 inches (192 cm). The weather on any given day and indeed for entire seasons can be very unpredictable. 
Anchorage AK average temperature information for planning your vacation to Alaska. Find the best time to visit Anchorage Alaska to experience the vacation your looking for. Average temperatures are enhanced with record high temperatures and record low temperatures for Anchorage Alaska. Anchorage in the winter, with an average of 26 degrees showing on the mercury offers an array of alpine skiing, dog sledding and Skijoring, a fast growing sport that involves cross-country skiing while being towed by a dog, along with the famous Iditarod sled dog race and the 2000 mile Irondog snowmobile race.
This is also the only region in Alaska in which the average daytime high temperature is above freezing during the winter months. There are even a few regions in the far southeast Alaska where the average temperature is warm enough to grow some cold-hardy palm trees. Juneau averages over 50 inches (1,270 mm) of precipitation a year, while some other areas in southeast Alaska receive as much as 275 inches (6,980 mm).
Be sure to visit the “ Alaska Wildlife Conservation Center ”, Girdwood. The average monthly temperature and rainfall information for Anchorage Alaska is another of the helpfull topics covered for help in planning your vacation to Alaska. This information is to help in planning your vacation to Anchorage Alaska. Anchorage in the winter, with an average of 26 degrees showing on the mercury offers an array of alpine skiing, dog sledding and Skijoring, a fast growing sport that involves cross-country skiing while being towed by a dog, along with the famous Iditarod sled dog race and the 2000 mile Irondog snowmobile race.
The climate of Alaska is determined by average temperatures and precipitation received statewide over many years. Juneau averages over 50 inches (1,270 mm) of precipitation a year, while some other areas in southeast Alaska receive as much as 275 inches (6,980 mm).
Location. This report describes the typical weather at the Fairbanks International Airport (Fairbanks, Alaska, United States) weather station over the course of an average year. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. 
Average Annual Temperatures in Alaska. Average annual temperatures for cities, towns and parks throughout Alaska are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum yearly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Southeast, South-Central, Southwest, Interior and Far North Alaska.