It was very good, but not a burger. The reason these restaurant 'scratchings' should be called crackling is that their sophistication could give real scratchings a bad name. In my Radio Four programme about pork scratchings, the renowned food historian Ivan day describes scratchings as 'popcorn for carnivores'. I agree. But the health fanatics are not the only ones attacking the pork scratching. As with other down-market public bar delicacies, such as the scotch egg, Welsh rarebit, or the pork sausage, ambitious restaurant chefs are forever gentrifying the humble scratching. In truth, what they are doing is re-branding pork crackling.
Pork rinds, sometimes cracklings, is the American name for fried or roasted skins of pigs, geese or other animals, regardless of the status or amount of pork in the snack. Pieces of fried meat, skin, or membrane produced as a byproduct of rendering lard are also called cracklings. Some supermarkets now sell just the layer of skin and fat (no meat), in a raw form for home grilling or roasting, or cooked and ready to eat from hot food counters. The term 'crackling' is also often applied to a twice-cooked variety of pork scratchings.
Pork scratchings is the British name for deep-fried, salted, crunchy pork rind with fat produced separately from the meat. This is then eaten cold. Pork scratchings typically are heavy and hard, have a crispy layer of fat under the skin, and are flavored only with salt. Some supermarkets now sell just the layer of skin and fat (no meat), in a raw form for home grilling or roasting, or cooked and ready to eat from hot food counters. The term 'crackling' is also often applied to a twice-cooked variety of pork scratchings.
1 You want pork scratchings, not a burnt offering. 2  When it has cooled down, add unhealthy amounts of salt-that's what makes this public bar delicacy so more-ish. 3  Use celery salt, old-fashioned but savoury and magnificent. 4  Accompany your scratchings with a pint of bitter beer. You could say that every bit of roast pork is only as good as its crackling, and there are certainly enough wives' tales about how to get the crackling really crisp, but the glory of a good pork scratching lies in its wickedness.
A 60g packet of pork scratchings contains 375 kcal; 29g of fat; 0.65g of sodium (a quarter of our recommended daily intake). These back-of-the-pack numbers also read the same whether you are a petite lady or a hulking male. They do not take into consideration whether you eat scratchings once a week or once a year. But the health fanatics are not the only ones attacking the pork scratching. As with other down-market public bar delicacies, such as the scotch egg, Welsh rarebit, or the pork sausage, ambitious restaurant chefs are forever gentrifying the humble scratching. In truth, what they are doing is re-branding pork crackling.
While most pork rinds are fried and eaten in crispy way, not all the pork skin reaches the frier, as some of the skin free of fat is pickled in a pork feet recipe. A by-product in frying rinds is the decanted residues in fryer called asiento or boronas (grounds). Some supermarkets now sell just the layer of skin and fat (no meat), in a raw form for home grilling or roasting, or cooked and ready to eat from hot food counters. The term 'crackling' is also often applied to a twice-cooked variety of pork scratchings.
Homemade Pork Rinds. Sign up to our mini-series for beginners: Pork rind is simply roasted or fried pork skin. Also called cracklings, they are a snack enjoyed all over the world. Most people think of them as an unhealthy indulgence, but we know very well that there is nothing wrong in eating fatty pork skin.
Health food: The new pork scratchings have been backed by athletes including Olympic gold medallist Jade Jones. It’s a dream come true for peckish pub goers – pork scratchings have been ­reinvented as a super food. Scientists claim they taste just as good as the original – extremely unhealthy – bar snack but ­without the high fat and salt. They are made from prime pork rind and boast 70% pure protein in a bag. They also have 47% less fat than old scratchings, which had 182 calories. 
In the US, they’re cracklings (usually pronounced “cracklins”). In Britain, they’re pork scratchings. Most Asian countries also have their own form. Wherever you are, though, the pork rind is essentially the same save for whatever seasonings were applied: slices of the skin fried in its own fat as it renders out. 