Graphite /ˈɡraefaɪt/ , ˈɡræfaɪt archaically referred to As, plumbago is a crystalline form of, carbon a, semimetal a native element, mineral and one of the allotropes of. carbon Graphite is the most stable form of carbon under standard conditions. Therefore, it is used in thermochemistry as the standard state for defining the heat of formation of carbon compounds.
Graphite is a mineral composed exclusively of the element carbon. Graphite has the same chemical composition as Diamond, which is also pure carbon, but the molecular structure of Graphite and Diamond is entirely different. This causes almost opposite characteristics in their physical properties. Graphite is rather common mineral, but fine crystals are rare. Most Graphite mining areas produce enormous quantities from a single or several large Graphite vein s, but collector specimens in good crystals are not commonly encountered
Introduction PropertiesCommon rock-forming mineralsEconomic minerals. Graphite is a soft, crystalline polymorph of carbon, and while it shares the same chemistry as diamond the two have very different physical properties (see diamond for examples). Graphite exhibits both metallic and non-metallic propertie
Graphite. Images: Type: mineral. Description: Pure graphite is a mineral form of the element carbon (element #6, symbol C). It forms as veins and disseminations in metamorphic rocks as the result of the metamorphism of organic material included in limestone deposits.
1 In chemistry, graphite is an allotrope of carbon. 2  An allotrope is a different form of the same element and they have different structures…. 3  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. Graphite is a type of mineral which is most known for its use in pencils. Graphite is carbon arranged in a very different way to how it is arranged in diamond.   …   Pencils made out of the mineral graphite. 21 people found this useful
Graphite is a naturally-occurring form of crystalline carbon. It is a native element mineral found in metamorphic and igneous rocks. Graphite is a mineral of extremes. It is extremely soft, cleaves with very light pressure and has a very low specific gravity. 
Graphite occurs in metamorphic rocks as a result of the reduction of sedimentary carbon compounds during metamorphism. It also occurs in igneous rocks and in meteorites. Minerals associated with graphite include quartz, calcite, micas and tourmaline. In meteorites it occurs with troilite and silicate minerals. Graphite is the most stable form of carbon under standard conditions. Therefore, it is used in thermochemistry as the standard state for defining the heat of formation of carbon compounds.