Candida. a genus of yeast, commonly part of the normal flora of the mouth, skin, intestinal tract and vagina, but can cause a variety of diseases. Most infections are associated with predisposing factors, particularly immune suppression. Only C. albicans is commonly associated with disease. See also candidiasis. Candida albicans. causes thrush in the mouth, crop, proventriculus and the gizzard of birds, and stomatitis, pneumonia and miscellaneous infections in other species. See candidiasis
Candida glabrata: review of epidemiology, pathogenesis, and clinical disease with comparison to C. albicans. This review summarizes all known clinical and experimental information about C. glabrata infections with comparisons to C. albicans as a means of contrasting the two species commonly observed and emphasizing the many recognized differences.
Frequency. Depending on the geographical localization, C. glabrata is the second commonest cause of mucosal candidiasis (especially recurrent Candida vagnitis after multiple azole treatments) and a frequent cause of candidaemia and invasive yeast infections. Diseases. It is the second most common cause of vaginitis. 
However, with the increased use of immunosuppressive agents, mucosal and systemic infections caused by C. glabrata have increased significantly, especially in the human immunodeficiency virus-infected population. This review summarizes all known clinical and experimental information about C. glabrata infections with comparisons to C. albicans as a means of contrasting the two species commonly observed and emphasizing the many recognized differences.
The most common type of fungus in humans is called Candida albicans and causes commonly occurring infections in women’s genitals. This yeast fungus is relatively easy to treat with fungicides. But more and more often after the treatment Candida albicans is replaced with the more resistant Candida glabrata. Here, we analyzed 40 pathogenic isolates of a haploid and asexual yeast, Candida glabrata, for their genome structure and stability. This organism has recently become the second most prevalent yeast pathogen in humans.
EPIDEMIOLOGY — C. albicans is the most common cause of candidemia, but there has been increased isolation of non-albicans species of Candida in recent years. Most prominent have been C. glabrata and C. parapsilosis, followed by C. tropicalis and C. krusei. 
Background. Cutaneous candidiasis and other forms of candidosis are infections caused by the yeast Candida albicans or other Candida species. Yeasts are unicellular fungi that typically reproduce by budding, a process that entails a progeny pinching off of the mother cell. Humans carry yeast fungi, including candidal species, throughout the gastrointestinal tract (mouth through anus) as part of the normal commensal flora. The vagina also commonly is colonized by yeast (13% of women), most commonly by C albicans and C glabrata.
Description of Candida glabrata. Candida glabrata (medical condition): A type of yeast infection caused by Torulopsis... more ». See also: Torulopsis : » Introduction: Torulopsis. » Symptoms of Torulopsis. Candida glabrata: A species of MITOSPORIC FUNGI commonly found on the body surface
Candida glabrata is a haploid yeast of the genus Candida, previously known as Torulopsis glabrata. This species of yeast is non-dimorphic and no mating activity has been observed. Until recently, C. glabrata was thought to be a primarily non-pathogenic organism. However, with the ever increasing population of immunocompromised individuals, trends have shown C. glabrata to be a highly opportunistic pathogen of the urogenital tract, and of the bloodstream (Candidemia).