A fake Sting appeared in the ring briefly before the lights went off. They used a “fake” Sting due to the real Sting having a limited amount of dates on his contract. – The following matches were taped prior to RAW for this week’s WWE Superstars broadcast: * Titus O’Neil vs. Jack Swagger. * Luke Harper vs. R-Truth. Full WWE Superstars **SPOILERS** are posted on the main newsboard. – As seen on RAW Monday night, Sting accepted Triple H’s challenge to appear face-to-face with him at Fast Lane, so The Icon is indeed confirmed for the pay-per-view later this month.
As noted earlier, the back cover of WWE's new Best of Sting DVD features a photo of Jeff NWO Sting Farmer in WCW. WWE's DVD distributor has since apologized for the error, calling the first run of the DVD a collector's item. They wrote the following on Facebook: The first batch of The Best of Sting DVDs and Blu-Rays will have a picture of 'Fake Sting' on it. 
WWE released the Sting Blu-Ray and DVD this week, titled ‘The Best of Sting’ and the back cover has a big, big mistake in one of the photos. You see, there were two Stings in WCW, the Sting that we know, portrayed by Steve Borden, and the nWo Sting, portrayed by Jeff Farmer. Strict Standards: Only variables should be passed by reference in /home/wonline/wrestling-online.com/News/wp-content/plugins/nextgen-gallery/products/photocrati_nextgen/modules/nextgen_basic_singlepic/package.module.nextgen_basic_singlepic.php on line 25.
Jeff Farmer (born August 14, 1962) is an American retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW) as Sting (later The nWo Sting), an impostor version of the original Sting aligned to the New World Order stable. Farmer appeared in the video game WCW vs. nWo: World Tour as nWo Sting, labeled in the game as Sting . In March of 1997, Farmer joined nWo Japan in New Japan Pro Wrestling and began to split his time between Japan and America. While in Japan, nWo Sting began to rise in popularity and became a prominent member of the group. He regularly teamed with nWo Japan leader Masahiro Chono
They used a fake Sting due to the real Sting having a limited amount of dates on his contract. -- The following matches were taped prior to RAW for this week's WWE Superstars broadcast: Also read: Check Out The Updated Card For WWE's Fast Lane Pay-Per-View Event Inside Here. * Titus O’Neil vs. Jack Swagger. -- As seen on RAW Monday night, Sting accepted Triple H ’s challenge to appear face-to-face with him at Fast Lane, so The Icon is indeed confirmed for the pay-per-view later this month.
The identity of the fake Sting who briefly appeared in the ring with Triple H during their segment on Monday night's edition of WWE Raw has been revealed to be independent wrestler Cody Hawk, as Hawk made the revelation on his official Facebook page, complete with before-and-after photos. Tags: #wwe #raw #sting. Tweet. 
10. The Introduction of the Fake Sting. If there is one cardinal rule for what doesn't work to further a wrestling story line it is that using a fake wrestler in an angle never works. If the fake Sting were brought out only once as a swerve it would have been one thing, however week-after-week the Fake Sting showed up fooling only stupid wrestlers like Lex Luger and the even more stupid announcer Tony Schiavone, who was duped by the Fake Sting on a weekly basis.
Prior to joining WWE, Farrelly was a two-time I... Read More ». -- As seen on RAW Monday night, Sting accepted Triple H ’s challenge to appear face-to-face with him at Fast Lane, so The Icon is indeed confirmed for the pay-per-view later this month. A fake Sting appeared in the ring briefly before the lights went off
After Farmer left, the nWo began using Sting masks and having other nWo members appear as fake Stings. He made one final appearance as Fake Sting on the July 5th 1999 edition of Monday Nitro when he interfered in a match between Kevin Nash and Sid Vicious. Farmer appeared in the video game WCW vs. nWo: World Tour as nWo Sting, labeled in the game as Sting . In March of 1997, Farmer joined nWo Japan in New Japan Pro Wrestling and began to split his time between Japan and America. While in Japan, nWo Sting began to rise in popularity and became a prominent member of the group. He regularly teamed with nWo Japan leader Masahiro Chono