The costs of the Chernobyl nuclear accident can only be calculated with a high degree of estimation, given the non-market conditions prevailing at the time of the disaster and the high inflation and volatile exchange rates of the transition period that followed the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991. The source document for this Digest states: The Chernobyl nuclear accident, and government policies adopted to cope with its consequences, imposed huge costs on the Soviet Union and three successor countries, Belarus, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.
In Ukraine, 5–7 percent of government spending each year is still devoted to Chernobyl-related benefits and programmes. In Belarus, government spending on Chernobyl amounted to 22.3 percent of the national budget in 1991, declining gradually to 6.1 percent in 2002. Total spending by Belarus on Chernobyl between 1991 and 2003 was more than US $ 13 billion. The source document for this Digest states: The Chernobyl nuclear accident, and government policies adopted to cope with its consequences, imposed huge costs on the Soviet Union and three successor countries, Belarus, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.
Comparison to Other Nuclear Disasters. The cost of a nuclear accident in a populated, industrial area could be much higher. That's because the Chernobyl disaster took place in a rural farming region. More than 5,700 square miles are contaminated, about the size of Connecticut. Hurricane Katrina cost less, between $125 billion to $250 billion. It knocked GDP growth to 1.3% in the 4th quarter 2005. It affected 19% of U.S. oil production and spiked gas prices to $5 a gallon. The 2011 Fukushima nuclear accident created as much economic damage as Chernobyl. 
Four hundred times more radioactive material was released from Chernobyl than by the atomic bombing of Hiroshima. The disaster released 1/100 to 1/1000 of the total amount of radioactivity released by nuclear weapons testing during the 1950s and 1960s. The International Project on the Health Effects of the Chernobyl Accident (IPEHCA) was created and received US $ 20 million, mainly from Japan, in hopes of discovering the main cause of health problems due to 131 I radiation.
The costs are enormous — the Chernobyl arch alone will end up costing about $1.5 billion, financed largely by the United States and about 30 other nations. And making the site of a radioactive disaster truly secure can take generations. 
However estimated cost of Chernobyl amounts to €450 billion. The Fukushima bills are not yet in and the dangers remain live, but estimates to date range from around $200 billion up to about $500 million-many times the entire equity value of any nuclear power corporation. The continuing nuclear disaster at Fukushima has concentrated minds on the risks of nuclear catastrope in Europe-all the more so as estimates of Fukushima's cost rise towards a giddying US$500 billion.
Source: Chernobyl Forum. The Chernobyl accident and the measures taken to deal with its consequences have cost the Soviet Union – and later Belarus, the Russian Federation and Ukraine – hundreds of billions of dollars, but economic losses were also incurred by other countries, for instance in Scandinavia. Costs include: 
Damage As a result of the Chernobyl disaster, almost a fourth part of Belarus was contaminated (some 23 per cent of the territory). For comparison, radioactive fallout in Russia amounted to 1.5 per cent and in Ukraine to 7 per cent of the country’s territory. Damage caused by the Chernobyl disaster is estimated at some $235 billion. However, the overall amount of money that Belarus and the international community invested into the recovery amounts to just 8 per cent of the total damage.  Safe environment in the affected regions requires much time to take hold.
The Chernobyl disaster was the worst nuclear power plant accident in history in terms of cost and casualties. The International Project on the Health Effects of the Chernobyl Accident (IPEHCA) was created and received US $ 20 million, mainly from Japan, in hopes of discovering the main cause of health problems due to 131 I radiation.