You'll be able to instantly watch unlimited movies and TV show episodes over the Internet on your TV via a PS3, Wii, Xbox 360, or any other Netflix enabled device.
Try us free for 1 month! You'll be able to instantly watch unlimited movies and TV show episodes over the Internet on your TV via a PS3, Wii, Xbox 360, or any other Netflix enabled device. You can also watch instantly on your computer!
Smart TVs: If you've bought a television from LG, Panasonic, Samsung, Vizio or any number of other manufacturers in the past few years, it might be an Internet-enabled Smart TV offering access to services like Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, and Hulu Plus at the very least.
Most notably, the GamePad controller for the Wii U functions as a tablet, so that if you don't want to watch Netflix on the TV anymore, you can send the show to the GamePad and continue streaming your Netflix show on the controller from anywhere in the house. THE SMART TVS.
You do not need a smart TV to get streaming Netflix movies or YouTube videos on your screen. Many set-top boxes can stream those services and more to an HDTV. The leading models are from Amazon, Apple, Google and Roku. As an example, the Roku Streaming Stick, just $50, delivers more than 1,000 channels and apps.
Here are your most practical, widely-used options to stream Netflix on your TV set: THE BOXES. A streaming media box is a small, Internet-connected device that hooks up to your television set and your Wi-Fi and gives you access to web television services like Netflix for no extra charge.
With the Netflix app and a Smart TV from LG, you can watch what you want, when you want – and never have to wait for a disc to arrive in the mail. To get started, all you’ll need is a Netflix Smart TV from LG, and your Netflix account info. Once you’ve downloaded the Netflix TV app and logged in you can start watching – instantly.
Rather than getting a smart TV, you should buy a dumb TV or buy a smart TV and ignore the smart parts — don’t even hook the TV to your network. Once you have, you should connect a separate set-top-box to it. This set-top box will supply better “smarts.”.