1 modern dance: The Beginnings of Modern Dance-The Beginnings of Modern Dance Developed in the 20th cent., primarily in the United States and ... 1 modern dance: The Beginnings of Modern Dance-The Beginnings of Modern Dance Developed in the 20th cent., primarily in the United States and 2  ... Calculator. 3  Spelling Checker
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Martha Graham was one of the leading dancers and choreographers of the American modern dance movement. In 1916 she began her training at the Denishawn School in Los Angeles, under the tutelage of Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn. Her modern-dance ballets, beginning with Clytemnestra in 1958, used the free-form techniques of modern dance to present classical literary works. Included in Graham's legacy are several monumental dance scores written for her by composers such as Samuel Barber, Paul Hindemith, and Aaron Copland.
An in-depth analysis of the context of the emergence of modern dance reveals that as early as the 1880s, a range of socioeconomic changes in both the United States and Europe was initiating to tremendous shifts in the dance world. From roughly 1914 forward, sociopolitical concerns added fuel to the continued development of modernist dance in the United States and Germany. The First and Second World Wars, the rise of fascism, the Great Depression (in the US), and the evolution of other artforms each informed modern dance along the way.
All rights reserved. 1  modern dance: The Beginnings of Modern Dance-The Beginnings of Modern Dance Developed in the 20th cent., primarily in the United States and ... 1 modern dance: The Beginnings of Modern Dance-The Beginnings of Modern Dance Developed in the 20th cent., primarily in the United States and 2  ... Calculator. 3  Spelling Checker
Modern dance, having begun as a reaction against ballet, is perhaps more easily defined by what it is not than by what it is, and it is often defined in contrast to ballet. Certain broad traits, however, can be observed in much of the enormously varied modern dance that has been created in the 20th century. During the 1930s choreographers defined modern dance and ballet in opposition to one another. Whereas modern dance was established as a technique with its own internal coherence, ballet was defined by reaffirming the essential tenets of its tradition.
Modern dance is a broad genre of western concert or theatrical dance (as opposed to participation dance), primarily arising out of both Germany and the United States in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. (Note that contributions from American dance artists comprise this article's primary focus. From roughly 1914 forward, sociopolitical concerns added fuel to the continued development of modernist dance in the United States and Germany. The First and Second World Wars, the rise of fascism, the Great Depression (in the US), and the evolution of other artforms each informed modern dance along the way.
Characteristics of Modern Dance. Modern dance encourages dancers to use their emotions and moods to design their own steps and routines. It is not unusual for dancers to invent new steps for their routines, instead of following a structured code of technique, as in ballet. Another characteristic of modern dance in opposition to ballet is the deliberate use of gravity. Modern dance has become a huge genre in the dance world today. You will most likely see modern dance listed as a class offered on the schedules of most dance studios. Some dancers feel that modern dance gives them a chance to enjoy ballet dancing without the strict focus on their technique and turnout.
Contemporary dance began at the start of the 20th century when US dancer Isadora Duncan (1878–1927) broke away from ballet and developed her own, more natural style. Contemporary dance has many different styles, some of them closely linked to music, such as jazz, rock and roll, and hip-hop. Western classical dance is called ballet and combines dance with mime (silent acting). It began in Europe in the 15th century. Countries such as India and Thailand also have great classical dance traditions. CHOREOGRAPHY is used to create classical dance.
The first two well-known American dancers to break away from classical ballet were Isadora Duncan and Ruth St. Denis. Although their styles differed, Duncan and St. Denis's unconventional approaches opened the door to a new era in dance history: the American modern dance movement of the 1920s. Her modern-dance ballets, beginning with Clytemnestra in 1958, used the free-form techniques of modern dance to present classical literary works. Included in Graham's legacy are several monumental dance scores written for her by composers such as Samuel Barber, Paul Hindemith, and Aaron Copland.