Ingredients of Cerefolin NAC. Cerefolin NAC includes the following ingredients: L-methylfolate 5.6 mg, Methylcobalamin 2 mg, N-acetylcysteine 600 mg, microcrystalline cellulose, opadry (Hypromellose), talc, titanium dioxide, polyethylene glycol, saccharin sodium, and magnesium stearate (vegetable source). Cerefolin NAC ingredients are described to “work synergistically to reduce or eliminate oxidative stress and lower homocysteine levels.”. Please keep in mind that Cerefolin NAC is a prescription drug and it may not be recommended in some medical conditions.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Cerefolin is a prescription medication made by Pamlab that contains 5.635 mg of folate as L-methylfolate, 1 mg of vitamin B12 as methylcobalamin, 50 mg of vitamin B2 as riboflavin, and 5 mg of vitamin B6 as pyridoxine. It is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment or prevention of vitamin deficiencies. Cerefolin NAC contains L-methylfolate (as Metafolin) 5.6 mg, methylcobalamin 2 mg, N-acetylcysteine 600 mg.
Cerefolin NAC is listed as a medical dietary supplement and its intended use is to aid in slowing down memory loss. 8.68 / 10 stars. Cerefolin NAC is a prescription medication designed to help people who suffer from beginning stages of memory loss. As it is a prescription medication, it requires a physician’s prescription in the United States. Cerefolin NAC ingredients are described to “work synergistically to reduce or eliminate oxidative stress and lower homocysteine levels.”. Please keep in mind that Cerefolin NAC is a prescription drug and it may not be recommended in some medical conditions.
Cerefolin NAC is a medical prescription that is manufactured to prevent cases of early memory loss and thinking problems. This product can only be obtained through a physician’s prescription. This is what causes people to experience frequent memory loss. Therefore cerefolin NAC work to stimulate the brain’s neurotransmitter synthesis, an activity that reduces chances of experiencing
Cerefolin NAC is a prescription medication created to assist those who have beginning stages of memory loss. This is a prescription medication that requires a physician’s prescription in the United States to obtain. Cerefolin NAC maybe available online for purchase through websites located in other countries. 1 At the time of this review Cerefolin NAC was only available through a prescription. 2  Cerefolin NAC may not be effective for individuals who have digestive issues not allowing the absorption of the medication.
Cerefolin is part of the Multivitamin and Mineral Supplements class and treats Nutritional Deficiency. Multivitamin and mineral supplements are used to provide higher concentrations of vitamins and minerals for prenatal nutrition, iron deficiency, and nutritional deficiency. 
Add to my Topics | View 6 Posts in Cerefolin. Cerefolin is a prescription medication made by Pamlab that contains 5.6 mg of folic acid as L-methylfolate, 2 mg of vitamin B12 as methylcobalamin and 600 mg of N-acetylcysteine (NAC). One possible advantage of using Cerefolin over other B-vitamin supplements is that it contains versions of folic acid and vitamin B12 that are active, meaning that they are ready to use by the body without the need for conversion. Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cerefolin.
The purpose of this six-month research study is to determine if Cerefolin NAC reduces levels of substances in the blood that may be associated with thinking ability and the health of brain cells in subjects with memory concerns when compared to a standard multivitamin. 1 To explore the effects of Cerefolin® NAC on a 6-month change in: (a)global and specific cognitive domains in a standardized neuropsychological test battery,(b) quality of life as measured by SF-36, (c)instrumental and basic activities of daily living, (d)MADRS; and (e)performance-based physical function.
Certain research studies seem to present the formula as a rather effective therapy against various memory and thinking problems, low energy levels, and a minimal sense of well-being. However, the full extent of Cerefolin NAC side effects, benefits, and precautions is still under research. Cerefolin NAC ingredients are described to “work synergistically to reduce or eliminate oxidative stress and lower homocysteine levels.”. Please keep in mind that Cerefolin NAC is a prescription drug and it may not be recommended in some medical conditions.