(T/F) Most hormones can be classified chemically as either amino-acid based or steroids. True. Most hormones belong to the amino-acid group, while others (steroids) are derived from cholesterol. 
Hormones. are secreted from the glands of the endocrine system, they are specific in that each hormone causes a response in a specific target organ or group of cells, rather than on the body as a whole. Exocrine hormones are secreted via a duct into the blood and usually effect a distant organ or tissue. It is the most common malignancy of the endocrine (hormone) system. There are four main types of thyroid cancer (depending on the type of cell that the cancer developed in); papillary carcinoma, follicular carcinoma, medullary carcinoma and anaplastic carcinoma.
Hormones can be classified into following three groups on the basis of their chemical structure: i. Amino acid derivatives ii. Peptide hormones iii. Lipid derivatives AMINO ACID DERIVATIVES Amino acid derivatives are relatively small molecules that are structurally similar to amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. 
Glands. Glands of the body are classified as either exocrine or endocrine types. Exocrine glands are glands that retain ducts to body surfaces. During development, endocrine glands lose their contacts to embryological surfaces(ducts) and become isolated as small blocks of tissues. Endocrine and exocrine glands secrete various products. These include hormones, enzymes, metabolites, and other molecules. In exocrine glands, products of these cells collect in the duct of the gland and flow toward the surface to which the duct is in contact.
Chemical Nature of Hormones. Chemically, hormones may be classified as either proteins or steroids. All of the hormones in the human body, except the sex hormones and those from the adrenal cortex, are proteins or protein derivatives. Some endocrine glands secrete hormones in response to other hormones. The hormones that cause secretion of other hormones are called tropic hormones. A hormone from gland A causes gland B to secrete its hormone. A third method of regulating hormone secretion is by direct nervous stimulation
Hormones are a kind of biochemical messengers. Most hormones are chemical substances produced by specialized tissue formations called endocrine glands. The substances are secr … eted directly into the bloodstream, other body fluids, or into adjacent tissues. The purpose of hormones is to regulate metabolic activity of some other organs or tissues of the body. Epinephrine and norepinephrine are the two hormones secreted by the  adrenal medulla. These adrenal hormones are classified as  catecholamine's which are chemical compounds … made in the body from  the amino acid tyrosine.
The definition of a hormone is a chemical substance produced by an endocrine gland that has a specific effect on the activities of other organs in the body. The major female and male hormones can be classified as estrogens or androgens. Both classes of male and female hormones are present in both males and females alike, but in vastly different amounts. Most men produce 6-8 mg of the male hormone testosterone (an androgen) per day, compared to most women who produce 0.5 mg daily. Female hormones, estrogens, are also present in both sexes, but in larger amounts for women
A hormone is a chemical that your endocrine glands send throughout your body. Hormones (which can be protein or lipid in nature) affect your growth, puberty, metabolism, weigh … t, figure, shape, physical appearance, reproductive behavior, and emotions. + 53 others found this useful. Epinephrine and norepinephrine are the two hormones secreted by the  adrenal medulla. These adrenal hormones are classified as  catecholamine's which are chemical compounds … made in the body from  the amino acid tyrosine.