In the year 1869, Dmitri Mendeleev who was a professor invented the first periodic table of the elements to teach his students and published it in “Principles of Chemistry”. He created a chart in a tabular form in which each of the 63 chemical elements was arranged as per the atomic mass order. 
The periodic table is a tabular arrangement of the chemical elements, ordered by their atomic number (number of protons in the nucleus), electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties. The table also shows four rectangular blocks: s-, p-d- and f-block. The number of possible elements is not known. A very early suggestion made by Elliot Adams in 1911, and based on the arrangement of elements in each horizontal periodic table row, was that elements of atomic weight greater than 256± (which would equate to between elements 99 and 100 in modern-day terms) did not exist.
Henry Moseley created the modern periodic table by putting the elements in order by atomic number. Dmitri Mendeleev made the first periodic table that could successfully predi … ct future elements, but ordered his elements by atomic mass, which we do not do today. Mendeleev first created the periodic table in 1869.  He thought that the elements must be organised in some way, that we would be able to use for experiments. And he first t … hought of the periodic table. He tried and tried but could not get them all to fit.
Picture courtesy of The Manhattan Project. Elements by Name Elements by Number Elements by Energy Levels Home. The Periodic Table of Elements is a chart created by Dmitri Mendeleev in 1869 to help organize the elements that had been discovered at that time. First we have to understand what an element is. All matter is made up of elements, which are substances with only one type of atom. 
Today's periodic table is ordered by atomic number instead of atomic mass (as Mendeleev had started). Henry Moseley was the first to order the elements by atomic number so elements would fit together in groups/families and periods better in 1913. Henry Moseley created the modern periodic table by putting the elements in order by atomic number. Dmitri Mendeleev made the first periodic table that could successfully predi … ct future elements, but ordered his elements by atomic mass, which we do not do today. 3 people found this useful.
The periodic table is a display of all of the chemical elements in a table form. It was invented by the chemist Dmitri Mendeleev in 1869. His intention was to illustrate recur … ring (periodic) trends in the properties of the elements. Mendeleev first created the periodic table in 1869.  He thought that the elements must be organised in some way, that we would be able to use for experiments. And he first t … hought of the periodic table. He tried and tried but could not get them all to fit.
The Periodic Table Dmitri Mendeleev created the first periodic table according to atomic mass in 1869. Others before Mendeleev had organized the elements according to their properties and were able to discern periodicity, although Mendeleev is generally accepted as the creator of the table. Henry Moseley created the modern periodic table by putting the elements in order by atomic number. Dmitri Mendeleev made the first periodic table that could successfully predi … ct future elements, but ordered his elements by atomic mass, which we do not do today. 3 people found this useful.
The periodic table was created to organize the elements and provide physical and chemical properties, also to group with elements like it. 38 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. Henry Moseley created the modern periodic table by putting the elements in order by atomic number. Dmitri Mendeleev made the first periodic table that could successfully predi … ct future elements, but ordered his elements by atomic mass, which we do not do today. 3 people found this useful.
Answer: If you answered Dmitri Mendeleev then you might be incorrect. Dmitri Mendeleev presented his periodic table of the elements based on increasing atomic weight on March 6, 1869, in a presentation to the Russian Chemical Society. While Mendeleev's table was the first to gain some acceptance in the scientific community, it was not the first table of its kind. 