[ukrɑˈjiɲsʲkɐ ˈmɔwɐ]) is an East Slavic language. It is the official state language of Ukraine and first of two principal languages of Ukrainians; it is one of the three official languages in the unrecognized state of Transnistria, the other two being Romanian and Russian. Written Ukrainian uses a variant of the Cyrillic script (see Ukrainian alphabet). The standard Ukrainian language is regulated by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine (NANU), particularly by its Institute for the Ukrainian Language, Ukrainian language-information fund, and Potebnya Institute of Language Studies.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The official language of Ukraine is Ukrainian, an East Slavic language which is the native language of 67.5% of Ukraine's population. Russian is the native language of 29.6% of Ukraine's population and the rest (2.9%) are native speakers of other languages. Ethnologue lists 40 minority languages and dialects; nearly all are native to the former Soviet Union. The official language of Ukraine is Ukrainian, an East Slavic language which is the native language of 67.5% of Ukraine's population
The majority of people in Ukraine speak... Ukranian ! 67.5% declare Ukrainian is their first/native language. The next major language is Russian, 29.6% of the population claim Russian as their native language. Most/many Ukrainians can speak both languages. Of course there are other language groups living in Ukraine, but these are a very small percentage. 
I believe the official language in Ukraine is Ukrainain, but since it used to be part of the Soviet Union everybody speaks Russian as well. In Odessa people mostly speak Rus … sian, but in the West and some North regions people speak Ukrainian. 
In Ukraine there are two spoken languages: Russian and Ukrainian. In general, in the big eastern cities like Kharkov and Dnepropetrovsk, the people speak primarily Russian. (Because that side of Ukraine borders Russia.) On the west, in smaller cities like Lvov and Lutsk, the spoken language is Ukrainia. Ukrainian is the language of villagers. In general.) Finally, down in the Crimean peninsula, you’ll hear Russian exclusively. Cities like Simferopol, Yalta and Sevastopol are essentially Russian cities, despite their geographical location. People often wonder how close Russian and Ukrainian are, linguistically.
Lexically, the closest language to Ukrainian is Belarusian (84% of common vocabulary), followed by Polish (70%), Serbo-Croatian (68%), Slovak (66%) and Russian (62%). The Ukrainian language retains a degree of mutual intelligibility with Belarusian and Russian. The standard Ukrainian language is regulated by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine (NANU), particularly by its Institute for the Ukrainian Language, Ukrainian language-information fund, and Potebnya Institute of Language Studies.
Which language do people speak in Ukraine-Russian or Ukrainian? Though official language of Ukraine is Ukrainian, more than 60% of its population speak Russian, because of long lasted and close bonds between Russian and Ukrainian people. For more than 300 years Ukraine was a part of Russia, and lately USSR. Last generations of Ukrainian people generally learned in school and spoke Russian in everyday life. In 1991 Ukraine one more time became independent. Ukraine is a young country, which is trying to reestablish its ancient historical roots.
As one of the largest crossroads in Europe, Ukraine has a diverse array of spoken languages. Of course, Ukraine’s official language is Ukrainian, which is spoken by roughly 67 percent of the population. Ukrainian is a Slavic language and it uses a Cyrillic alphabet when committed to written form. 
It depends on what part of Ukraine we're speaking about. In the Eastern and some areas of Central Ukraine people speak Russian, and Western Ukraine is... really Ukrainian. :) You see, it is NOT the matter of language, but mainly politics and mentality. Anyone in Ukraine speaks both Russian, and Ukrainian (better or worse). Report Abuse. The national language of the Ukraine is Ukranian. There are a lot of Russian speakers that also live in the Ukraine. Russian and Ukranian are very similar. As a matter of fact, if you learn one Slavic language really well, it is pretty easy to pick up the other ones.