Arsenic is a natural element that can be found in rocks and soil, water, air, and in plants and animals. It can also be released into the environment from some agricultural and industrial sources. Although it is sometimes found in its pure form as a steel grey metal, arsenic is usually part of chemical compounds. 
In the environment, arsenic is combined with oxygen, chlorine, and sulfur to form inorganic arsenic compounds. Arsenic in animals and plants combines with carbon and hydrogen to form organic arsenic compounds. Inorganic arsenic compounds are mainly used to preserve wood. 
Arsenic is a chemical element with symbol As and atomic number 33. Arsenic occurs in many minerals, usually in conjunction with sulfur and metals, and also as a pure elemental crystal. Arsenic is a metalloid. It can exist in various allotropes, although only the gray form has important use in industry. The main use of metallic arsenic is for strengthening alloys of copper and especially lead (for example, in car batteries). Arsenic is a common n-type dopant in semiconductor electronic devices, and the optoelectronic compound gallium arsenide is the most common semiconductor in use after doped silicon.
In its metallic form it is bright, silver-grey and brittle. Uses. Arsenic is a well-known poison. Arsenic compounds are sometimes used as rat poisons and insecticides but their use is strictly controlled. Arsenic doesn't seem much like a metal in its so called yellow form, but it also has a grey form known tellingly as metallic arsenic. Yellow arsenic has a specific gravity of 1.97 while grey arsenic has a specific gravity of 5.73. Grey arsenic is the usual stable form with a melting point of 817 degree Celsius.
These compounds occur either naturally or as a result of mining, ore smelting, and industrial use of arsenic. Organic arsenic compounds are found mainly in fish and shellfish. In the past, inorganic forms of arsenic were used in pesticides and paint pigment. They were also used as wood preservatives and as a treatment for a variety of ailments. Today, usage of arsenic-containing pesticides and wood preservatives is restricted. 
ARSENIC Overview Information. Arsenic is a trace element. It is found in several foods including seafood, poultry, grains (especially rice), bread, cereal products, mushrooms, and dairy products. Some forms of arsenic are used as medicine. Despite serious safety concerns, arsenic is often used as a part of extremely diluted homeopathic remedies that are used for digestive disorders, food poisoning, sleep problems (insomnia), allergies, anxiety, depression, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). 
Arsenic and its compounds, especially the trioxide, are used in the production of pesticides, treated wood products, herbicides, and insecticides. These applications are declining, however. A few species of bacteria are able to use arsenic compounds as respiratory metabolites. The main use of metallic arsenic is for strengthening alloys of copper and especially lead (for example, in car batteries). Arsenic is a common n-type dopant in semiconductor electronic devices, and the optoelectronic compound gallium arsenide is the most common semiconductor in use after doped silicon.
Arsenic is a naturally occurring mineral found in soil, bedrock, and water. In its pure form, arsenic is a silver-gray or white brittle metal. Arsenic has no odor and is almost tasteless. Arsenic and its compounds have a variety of commercial uses. Manufacturers use arsenic to make other metals, glass, electronic components, and wood preservatives. Arsenic level between 10 ppb and 500 ppb*. Do not drink your water or use it to prepare foods that require a lot of water (e.g., infant formula, soups, Jell-O, rice, coffee, tea) if the arsenic level is above 10 ppb. Washing foods and dishes in the water is safe, and is not a significant source of exposure.