Aesthetic and Efferent Listening – A Handout. Here is a handout I created for my language in education class. I figure I might as well post it, in case someone out there might find it useful. 
This form of listening requires significant real-time cognitive effort as the listener analyzes what is being said, relating it to existing knowledge and rules, whilst simultaneously listening to the ongoing words from the speaker. Critical listening is listening in order to evaluate and judge, forming opinion about what is being said. Judgment includes assessing strengths and weaknesses, agreement and approval.
Critical listening is a form of listening that if usually not mentioned, since it involves analysis, critical thinking and judgment. Making judgments during listening is often considered as a barrier to understand a person, and there's a lot of truth in that. However, critical listening occurs when you still want to understand what the other person is saying, but also have some reason or responsibility to evaluate what is being said to you and how it is being said.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Aesthic reading is for entertainment. Efferent reading is reading to carry away information; the focus is on the information in the text and illustration and not focused on the experience of reading for entertainment. Afferent means going towards a center, in this  case, a vessel going towards a lymph node. Efferent means going  away from center, in this case, these are vessels associated … with  the thymus and spleen.
ISBN: 1-55037-039-1. Aesthetic Listening: This story would be used more for aesthetic listening than for efferent listening. This book can be read with a lot of expression and I think this is fun for the students to see in your voice and your facial expressions. Efferent Listening: This book could be used for some information with units on stereotyping and judgment. The students can follow Megan through the book and witness how her view on pigs changes. It shows how her first impression of pigs is completely different than her final thoughts on pigs.
4. Building Efferent Listening -- comprehending information -- Efferent means to receive, attend, and comprehend with the goal of obtaining new information and learning. To teach this type of listening, students need to develop the abilities to take notes, recognize sequence, and formulate questions. 6 Levels of Listening Ability need development in students: 1. Receiving -- hearing sound -- If a child is not listening when spoken to, the first thing a teacher must do is be sure the child can hear.
Informative listening, or listening to understand, is found in all areas of our lives. Much of our learning comes from informative listening. For example, we listen to lectures or instructions from teachers and what we learn depends on how well we listen. Informative listening is the name we give to the situation where the listener s primary concern is to understand the message. Listeners are successful insofar as the meaning they assign to messages is as close as possible to that which the sender intended.
Listening is a complex, interactive process by which spoken language is converted to meaning. Listening is different than hearing, which is the reception of sound. 6 Levels of Listening Ability need development in students: 1. Receiving -- hearing sound -- If a child is not listening when spoken to, the first thing a teacher must do is be sure the child can hear. Contacting the school nurse to do a hearing screening is a wise, cautionary approach to determine that a student can indeed hear what is being said to him/her
Evaluative listening. In evaluative listening, or critical listening, we make judgments about what the other person is saying. We seek to assess the truth of what is being said. We also judge what they say against our values, assessing them as good or bad, worthy or unworthy. Critical listening is listening in order to evaluate and judge, forming opinion about what is being said. Judgment includes assessing strengths and weaknesses, agreement and approval.