During the British Raj, the area had a tea plantation, one of four in the Kumaon area at that time. The lakes sit at an altitude of 1370 metres below lush orchards in the Mehragaon valley. Set amongst dense forests of oak and pine trees, Sattal is one of the few unspoiled and unpolluted freshwater biomes in India. The Sattal Christian Ashram was established by E. Stanley Jones (1884-1973), the evangelist and missionary. This Christian Ashram is situated on the banks of Sattal lakes, on a former tea estate. St. John's Church is part of this ashram and showcases a mixed colonial architecture.
Place Details: Known as the ‘Town of Seven lakes’; Sattal in the Kumaon region of Uttarakhand is famous for its freshwater lakes. Located at an elevation of about 4000 feet in Nainital district, Sattal along with Nainital, Bhimtal, Naukuchiatal and others form part of the Lake District of India. The seven lakes are among the few unspoiled and unpolluted fresh water bodies in India. It is said that the lakes used to be interconnected. Hills around Sattal are ideal for activities like trekking, rappeling, mountain biking, rock climbing and many more. Activities like boating and angling can also be enjoyed at the lakes.
Distance of Sattal Sattal is about 23 kms from Nainital, 320 kms from Delhi and 13 kms from Bhimtal. You Can Visit Sattal By Taxi Or By Tours & Travel Packages. Nainital Tourism offers Transport & online booking Luxury-Deluxe and Budget in various Camps-Hotels & Resorts in Sattal. Sattal Weather Akin to other places in the Himalayan region, Sattal experiences pleasant climate round the year. The summer months of April, May and June also observe pleasant climate, making it an ideal getaway for the people from plain lands. How to Reach Sattal by Air :- The nearest airport at Pantnagar.
Sattal is often compared with Westmore land of England by Britishers. These lakes are paradise for migratory birds as they stay for some time here during their migration. These birds try to escape the harsh cold of the great Himalayan region by migrating to lower areas of the Himalayas. Sat Tal is a cluster of mysteriously inter-connected seven freshwater lakes located in the Nainital district of Kumaon region. Sat Tal is perched at an altitude of 1,370mts above sea level offering splendors of nature. The group of lakes is set amidst dense forests of oak and pine trees. Sattal is one of the few unspoiled and unpolluted fresh water biomes in India. The names of the seven lakes of Sattal are Purna Tal, Ram Tal, Sita tal, Laxman Tal, Nal Damyanti Tal, Sukh Tal and Garud Tal
Sattal is situated in the Lower Himalayan Range and is the result of tectonic activities and the uplifting of sediments between the Tibetan plain and the Indo-Gangetic plains. The rocks are mainly sedimentary rocks and quartzite. The Sattal Christian Ashram was established by E. Stanley Jones (1884-1973), the evangelist and missionary. This Christian Ashram is situated on the banks of Sattal lakes, on a former tea estate. St. John's Church is part of this ashram and showcases a mixed colonial architecture.
10, Surya Gaon Sattal Lake PO Bhimtal, 122002 Nainital, India – Show map. Excellent location – rated 10/10! Rated by guests after their stay at V Resorts-Sattal. Enjoy views of the surrounding lakes and hills from your private cottage at V Resorts-Sattal Forest Resort. Located at an altitude of 5000 feet in the heart of the Kumaon Hills, the resort has a 24-hour front desk and its very own restaurant. Located near the quaint town of Bhimtal in Nainital District, Sattal Forest Resort is 7.5 miles from Praathmik Swaastha Kendra, a health centre. Pantnagar Airport is approximately 34.2 miles from the r
Some of the butterflies found at Sattal includes Indian fritillary (Argynnis hyperbius), peacock panzy, blue peacock, Paris peacock, red-base Jazebel, red lacewing, yellow pansy, tawny Rajah, red Helen, large silverstripe and thousands of others. The Sattal Christian Ashram was established by E. Stanley Jones (1884-1973), the evangelist and missionary. This Christian Ashram is situated on the banks of Sattal lakes, on a former tea estate. St. John's Church is part of this ashram and showcases a mixed colonial architecture.