A marked crosswalk can benefit pedestrians by directing them to cross at locations where appropriate traffic control, including traffic signals or adult school crossing guards, either currently exist or can be provided. Flashing beacons at a marked crosswalk may draw additional attention to the crosswalk. The beacons can be set with a timer to flash only during crossing times, or can be pedestrian-activated by an automatic detector or push button such that they only flash when pedestrians are present.
A pedestrian crossing or crosswalk is a place designated for pedestrians to cross a road. Crosswalks are designed to keep pedestrians together where they can be seen by motorists, and where they can cross most safely across the flow of vehicular traffic. A pedestrian crossing with a Vienna Convention standard sign indicating to motorists that they must give priority to pedestrians using it. In some countries, instead of don't walk, a depiction of a red man or hand indicating when not to cross, the drawing of the person crossing appears with an X drawn over it.
Signalised pedestrian crossings clearly separate when each type of traffic (pedestrians or road vehicles) can use the crossing. Unsignalized crossings generally assist pedestrians, and usually prioritise pedestrians, depending on the locality. A pedestrian crossing with a Vienna Convention standard sign indicating to motorists that they must give priority to pedestrians using it. In some countries, instead of don't walk, a depiction of a red man or hand indicating when not to cross, the drawing of the person crossing appears with an X drawn over it.
In the United Kingdom (and in many current or former Commonwealth countries as well), it is illegal for drivers to park upon the 'zig zag' lines either side of a pedestrian crossing. This is to ensure pedestrians' view of oncoming traffic is not obscured. A pedestrian crossing with a Vienna Convention standard sign indicating to motorists that they must give priority to pedestrians using it. In some countries, instead of don't walk, a depiction of a red man or hand indicating when not to cross, the drawing of the person crossing appears with an X drawn over it.
WALK or a walking pedestrian symbol means that pedestrians may begin crossing. A flashing DON'T WALK or an upraised hand symbol means that it is too late to begin crossing the street, but pedestrians who are already in the crosswalk should quickly finish crossing. 
White, retroreflective pavement marking lines must be used to officially establish a legal crosswalk. As discussed in Chapter 3G of the 2009 MUTCD (Colored Pavements), brick pavers and colored decorative paving treatments that simulate brick or other patterns may be used between the white crosswalk lines. The crosswalk is a traffic control device and is under the authority of the MUTCD. Guidance for aesthetic treatments in crosswalks is provided here. Discussion in the memo on the potential of crosswalk art as a source of distraction could be analogous to intersection art and street murals.
In-street crosswalk signs must be installed at uncontrolled pedestrian crossings to make the crosswalk more visible and increase drier yielding. They are more likely to be effective on two-lane, low-speed streets than on multi-lane, high-speed streets, and are prohibited by the 2009 MUTCD at signalized intersections. Flashing beacons at a marked crosswalk may draw additional attention to the crosswalk. The beacons can be set with a timer to flash only during crossing times, or can be pedestrian-activated by an automatic detector or push button such that they only flash when pedestrians are present.
Guidance: If transverse lines are used to mark a crosswalk, the gap between the lines should not be less than 1.8 m (6 ft). If diagonal or longitudinal lines are used without transverse lines to mark a crosswalk, the crosswalk should not be less than 1.8 m (6 ft) wide. In the absence of a marked crosswalk, the stop line or yield line should be placed at the desired stopping or yielding point, but should be placed no more than 9 m (30 ft) nor less than 1.2 m (4 ft) from the nearest edge of the intersecting traveled way.
At nonintersection locations, crosswalk markings legally establish the crosswalk. Standard: When transverse crosswalk lines are used, they shall be solid white, marking both edges of the crosswalk, except as noted in the Option. They shall be not less than 150 mm (6 in) nor greater than 600 mm (24 in) in width. In the absence of a marked crosswalk, the stop line or yield line should be placed at the desired stopping or yielding point, but should be placed no more than 9 m (30 ft) nor less than 1.2 m (4 ft) from the nearest edge of the intersecting traveled way.