1 Place pork chops in a baking pan. 2  Spread 1 teaspoon of butter over each chop, then spread 1 teaspoon of mayonnaise over butter. 3  Season each one with seasoning salt, pepper and parsley. 4  Sprinkle 1/4 cup cheese over the top of each pork chop.
Thirty Minutes, Give or Take. Take as one example stuffed pork chops, 3/4 inch thick. These should take around 30 minutes in a 350 F oven to complete baking, so that the stuffing cooks through. Unstuffed, thinner pork chops take less time, and thicker pork chops take longer. Also, the more chops in the oven, the longer they’ll take to cook.
Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). 2  Place pork chops in a baking pan. 3  Spread 1 teaspoon of butter over each chop, then spread 1 teaspoon of mayonnaise over butter. 4  Season each one with seasoning salt, pepper and parsley. 5  Sprinkle 1/4 cup cheese over the top of each pork chop.
Add the pork chops and sear them in the hot pan. Cook the chops for 2 minutes on each side in the hot oil, or until each side is notably browned. 1  The process of searing and braising pork chops on the stove can go a long way in preventing the meat from drying out.
Heat the canola oil over medium to medium-high heat. Add the butter. When the butter is melted and the butter/oil mixture is hot, cook 3 pork chops at a time, 2 to 3 minutes on the first side. Flip and cook until the chops are golden brown on the other side, 1 to 2 minutes (make sure no pink juices remain).
Place the pork chops in a shallow dish and pour the brine over top. The brine should cover the chops — if not, add additional water and salt (1 cup water to 1 tablespoon salt) until the chops are submerged. Cover the dish and refrigerate for 30 minutes or up to 4 hours.
Dredge each side of the pork chops in the flour mixture, then set aside on a plate. Heat canola oil over medium to medium-high heat. Add butter. When butter is melted and butter/oil mixture is hot, cook 3 pork chops at a time, 2 to 3 minutes on the first side; 1 to 2 minutes on the other side.
Read on to learn how to fry pork chops on the stove, bake them in the oven or grill, or broil them to perfection. 1  Prep time: 5 minutes. 2  Cook time (frying): 6-8 minutes. 3  Total time: 11-13 minutes.