Hormones: Hormones are chemical substances produced by specific organs of the body like adrenal glands, pituitary glands, pancreas, etc. These are released directly into the blood stream. Each hormone is release for a specific purpose. For example, the TSH hormone released by the pituitary gland in the brain and it targets the thyroid gland in the neck making it to produce thyroid hormones. Similarly other glands produce various hormones targeting specific organs.
The difference between an enzyme and a hormone is due to the purpose they are designed to serve. Hormones control aspects of growth and metabolism such as the breaking of the voice and the development of musculature during puberty in males; and the regulation of the menstrual cycle in females. For example, the TSH hormone released by the pituitary gland in the brain and it targets the thyroid gland in the neck making it to produce thyroid hormones. Similarly other glands produce various hormones targeting specific organs.
Hormones are like 'impulses' from the glands. In order to stimulate a particular response, more than one hormone may need to be released. The pituitary gland, found at the base of the brain, influences the activity of the other endocrine glands. It is controlled by the information it receives from the brain. One remarkable feature is the speed of the response which is virtually instantaneous. The central nervous system is composed of specialised cells called nerve cells or neurones. These cells are bound together by connective tissue to form nerve fibres.
Best Answer: 1.A hormone is a chemical and a nerve message is an electrical impulse. 2. A hormone affects target organs and a nerve message affects the receiver. 3. A hormone travels through the blood and a nerve message through a nerve. 4. A hormone has long-lasting effects and a nerve message has very short term effects. 5. A hormone is secreted by a gland, a nerve message is initiated by a response to an exterior alteration.
When the blood glucose is elevated, the pancreas secretes insulin and when the blood glucose falls, it secretes glucagons. 3) nervous system to gland—Some glands secrete hormones in direct response to the nervous system. For example, the adrenal medulla secretes a hormone in response to sympathetic nerve impulses. For information on specific endocrine glands, see the table on the following pages. All body functions are influenced by the endocrine glands; there are no processes that are NOT affected by hormone signaling. Target cells are specific to the hormone; a hormone specific to a target cell can only affect that target tissue because of the presence of receptors for the hormone on the target cells. Some endocrine glands are so complex and so specific that certain sections of the gland produce different hormones.
Nerves and hormones Nervous coordination in mammals The ability to respond to stimuli is a fundamental characteristic of living organisms. One remarkable feature is the speed of the response which is virtually instantaneous. The central nervous system is composed of specialised cells called nerve cells or neurones. These cells are bound together by connective tissue to form nerve fibres.
Click here to view an animation of the endocrine system. The endocrine system is a set of hormone secreting glands within the body of an animal. The function of the endocrine system is homeostasis, communication and response to stimuli. Some these hormones, called releasing hormones, stimulate the pituitary gland to make other hormones. Others, called release inhibiting hormones, prevent the production of pituitary hormones. An example is growth hormone releasing factor. This causes the production of growth hormone (GH) by the pituitary gland.
The pituitary gland is often called the master gland. That is because the pituitary gland produces hormones that regulate other endocrine glands. Some hormones produced by the pituitary gland are: 1. Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH): Will be discussed in a later Chapter of the syllabus. 2. Luteinising Hormone (LH): Will be discussed in a later Chapter of the syllabus. Some these hormones, called releasing hormones, stimulate the pituitary gland to make other hormones. Others, called release inhibiting hormones, prevent the production of pituitary hormones. An example is growth hormone releasing factor. This causes the production of growth hormone (GH) by the pituitary gland.
Answers. Best Answer: They both are communicators of the body. The endocrine is a slow communicator and the nervous system is a fast communicator. Each system uses several of the same chemicals. The systems both regulate eachother, and rely on negative feedback mechanisms. The endocrine system works in concert with the nervous system to regulate other body systems. Sometimes the two systems are referred to as the neuroendocrine system to reflect this important relationship. The endocrine system is composed of glands that make hormones which are released into the bloodstream