How to test for Bakelite: There are many ways to determine whether your piece is Bakelite: 1  The weight: Bakelite is much heavier than other vintage plastics such as lucite and celluloid. 2  The look: Bakelite pieces are cast, therefore they have no seams. 3  The smell: when hot, Bakelite has a disgusting varnish smell. 
Bakelite & Catalin: All you need to know and how to test it. Fakelite: Beware of Fakelite, it looks like Bakelite and Catalin. You should not pay more than $20-$30 for a Fakelite bracelet. 
Today I'm going to show you how to perform a test for Bakelite using simichrome polish. I think this is the most reliable way to check if your piece is real Bakelite. 1  Education. 
5. Testing by Sight-Using Simi-chrome Polish. Simi-chrome Polish is a non-abrasive cream used to clean metals. You can also use it to test Bakelite for authenticity. Sparingly apply to a soft cloth and gently rub a small spot on the inside or back of the item being tested. If it's Bakelite, the cloth should turn yellow with ease. If a piece is lacquered, it may test negative. Black Bakelite pieces often fail this test as well
Being that many of my fellow ebayers write to me on a regular basis asking me how to test for BAKELITE plastic, which I have gotten many thank you's for all my helpful responses to you, I thought I'd post my knowledge as a handy guide for everyone. 
This is how I test for Bakelite and tips/knowledge I have about Bakelite that helps me with purchasing and selling it. If you enjoyed this Testing Bakelite Video about Vintage/Antique Costume Jewelry Tips & Tricks to Buying & Selling, then please hit the like button and share with your friends. Nothing we say is a rule! There are no rules, think outside the box! Be your own boss.
Testing by Sight-Using Simichrome Polish. Simichrome Polish is a non-abrasive cream used to clean metals. You can also use it to test Bakelite for authenticity, and this is the perferred method for many plastics lovers. To test with Simichrome, sparingly apply to a soft cloth and gently rub a small spot on the inside or back of the item being tested. If a piece is laquered, it may test negative with 409. Black Bakelite pieces often fail this test as well. Use the other tests above to confirm authenticity if a piece you suspect to be Bakelite fails with 409.
Method #1: Some Bakelite collectors recommend the 409 Test. Here's how to do it: 1  Dip a cotton swab in 409 household cleaner and touch a small area of the piece, such as a back that won't be visible when worn. 2  If the piece is vintage Bakelite, the accumulated patina will show up as a yellow stain on the cotton swab. 
Bakelite should offer a distinctive odor. If your piece does not offer a scent, it is probably not Bakelite. This test works well when you wish to test a piece of Bakelite that you do not (yet) own, at a flea market or estate sale, for example. Dip the possible piece of Bakelite into hot water for 15 to 30 seconds. Smell it. As with the rubbing test, the Bakelite should give off a distinctive scent. Instructions. Examine the possible piece of Bakelite closely. Look for any seams and examine the piece's color. Authentic Bakelite almost never has seams, and changes color with age. If the piece has seams or is bright white (rather than mustard-colored or at least dark ivory)
5. Simichrome Polish is a non-abrasive cream used to clean metals. You can also use it to test Bakelite for authenticity, and this is the perferred method for many plastics lovers. To test with Simichrome, sparingly apply to a soft cloth and gently rub a small spot on the inside or back of the item being tested. If a piece is laquered, it may test negative with 409. Black Bakelite pieces often fail this test as well. Use the other tests above to confirm authenticity if a piece you suspect to be Bakelite fails with 409.