Freezers should be maintained at -18°C or colder in food businesses. Ice cream can be stored at -12°C in food service areas. The temperature in domestic ice boxes can vary from -6°C to -18°C, depending on the star rating. Following cooking, food which will not be consumed immediately should be cooled as quickly as possible and put in the fridge within 2 hours. Do not overload the fridge with warm food as this will raise the overall temperature of the fridge which increases the possibility of bacteria growing in the food.
Beef depending on the cut and type of dish or length of cooking time can be cooked at any temperature between 250F(120C) [slow roasting] and 600F(316C) for high broil or flame … grilled beef. Ground and chopped beef should always be cooked to 165F(75C) to kill potential pathogens. The center of beef should reach at minimum 150 Fahrenheit / 66 Celsius, which is considered rare. Medium/Medium-rare is 160 Fahrenheit, and borderline Medium-Well/Well-Done is 170 Fahrenheit. This is for a roast-type beef-if you're working with ground beef, you want to cook until none of the meat is pink. Best!
A consumer using a thermometer can be assured that the food has reached a safe temperature. A Food Thermometer Can Help: 1  Prevent foodborne illness; 2  Cook foods to a safe temperature; 3  Prevent overcooking; and. 4  Hold hot, cooked foods safely. 1 Cooking these foods to a safe internal temperature will get rid of any bacteria present. 2  Don't put cooked foods on the same plate that held raw meat. 3  Always wash utensils that have touched raw meat with hot, soapy water before using them for cooked meats.
Food should be cooked thoroughly to kill food poisoning bacteria. The core temperature should reach 75°C instantaneously or equivalent, e.g. 70°C for two minutes. The core is taken as the centre or thickest part of the food. Following cooking, food which will not be consumed immediately should be cooled as quickly as possible and put in the fridge within 2 hours. Do not overload the fridge with warm food as this will raise the overall temperature of the fridge which increases the possibility of bacteria growing in the food.
The core temperature when the food is cooked should be at least 75 degrees celsius. The food should not cool to below 63 degrees celsius before it is served. If you are re … heating the food it should be raised to at least 82 degrees celsius. 11 people found this useful. Making the world better, one answer at a time. You should keep hot foods hot and cold foods cold. The temperature to keep bacteria out of hot foods is 160 degrees and above.
Using a food thermometer. Checking the temperature of your cooked meat, poultry, and seafood with a food thermometer is the only reliable way to make sure your food has reached a safe internal cooking temperature. Here are a few tips to follow when checking to see if your food has reached the necessary safe internal cooking temperature: 1  Remove your food from the heat and insert the digital food thermometer through the thickest part of the meat, all the way to the middle.
Cooking thermometers or temperature probes are an easy way to check if food is cooked properly. The food should reach a temperature of 70°C for more than 2 minutes in the middle or thickest part. Some types of food change colour when they’re cooked. Looking at colour is especially useful for checking meat. 
You should take the temperature of the food at the core of the food. If this is not possible, (e.g. vacuum packed and frozen foods) you should measure the temperature between packs. Your temperature probe should have an accuracy of at least ±0.5°C. Following cooking, food which will not be consumed immediately should be cooled as quickly as possible and put in the fridge within 2 hours. Do not overload the fridge with warm food as this will raise the overall temperature of the fridge which increases the possibility of bacteria growing in the food.
While there are many types of food thermometers, digital food thermometers are considered the most accurate because they provide instant, exact temperature readings. They are reliable tools that you can use to make sure that your foods reach internal cooking temperatures high enough to eliminate harmful bacteria. Here are a few tips to follow when checking to see if your food has reached the necessary safe internal cooking temperature: 1  Remove your food from the heat and insert the digital food thermometer through the thickest part of the meat, all the way to the middle.