A 10 lb. dog would need to eat 2 to 3 milk chocolate bars to reach 240mg. Semi-sweet chocolate has 43% less theobromine. Baking chocolate has +73% more and can cause toxicity with only 1 oz (it has 450mg an oz, significantly above minimum toxic levels). Treatment is needed immediately. What to do about Dogs and Chocolate. Call your veterinarian and describe the type of chocolate he or she might of ate (dark, unsweetened, milk chocolate, semi-sweet), the amount and the time. Also, give your veterinarian or emergency veterinary center the weight of your dog.
This is not a topic to take lightly. The most important things to consider are what kind of chocolate your dog ate, how much your dog ate, how much your dog weighs, and how long ago was the chocolate consumed. For instance, one ounce of milk chocolate isn’t as toxic as one ounce of Baker’s chocolate. Similarly, a 5-lb. 
If you find your dog eating chocolate, the first thing you need to do is get the chocolate away from your pet. Once you stop the dog from eating any additional chocolate, you should make sure the animal does not have wrappers or packaging stuck in its mouth or its throat. If you find yourself asking this question, the most important thing to remember is not to panic. Most dogs that eat chocolate recover well, but because chocolate can be toxic to dogs, you do need to take steps to keep your pet from coming to harm. These steps include ensuring the dog's immediate safety, assessing the severity of the problem and enlisting professional help when necessary
If your dog eats chocolate and shows signs of toxicity, he may need to be hospitalized for a time so that he can be observed and supportive therapy given for any symptoms he has. For instance, if he is having seizures, anti-convulsive medication will be given. What to do about Dogs and Chocolate. Call your veterinarian and describe the type of chocolate he or she might of ate (dark, unsweetened, milk chocolate, semi-sweet), the amount and the time. Also, give your veterinarian or emergency veterinary center the weight of your dog.
Chocolate is one of the top 10 causes of dog poisoning due to the ingredient theobromine. The average milk chocolate bar is 2-3 oz. At this level is would take 2 to 3 milk chocolate candy bars to produce toxicity in a 10 lb dog. Baking chocolate on the other hand can be toxic with a single once in a 10 lb. dog. What to do about Dogs and Chocolate. Call your veterinarian and describe the type of chocolate he or she might of ate (dark, unsweetened, milk chocolate, semi-sweet), the amount and the time. Also, give your veterinarian or emergency veterinary center the weight of your dog.
Chocolate contains a stimulant called theobromine (a bit like caffeine) that is poisonous to dogs. The amount of theobromide differs in the different types of chocolate (dark chocolate has the most in it). Treatment may be needed if your dog eats any chocolate so please contact your vet as soon as possible. It will assist your vet if you can tell them how much chocolate your dog has eaten, what type of chocolate it was (wrappers can be very helpful) and when your dog ate the chocolate.
1 Baker’s chocolate is the most toxic type of chocolate for dogs, while milk chocolate is the least toxic. 2  Semi-sweet and dark chocolate toxicity falls somewhere in the middle. 3  The toxic dose for Theobromine ranges from 9 mg to 18 mg per pound. 1 You do not want to give activated charcoal to a dog that is vomiting, tremors or seizuring. 2  If you get charcoal in the lungs, that can be fatal to the dog. 3  It is very difficult to get a large amount of charcoal into a dog without a stomach tube, and you will need to repeat every 4-6 hours for 2-3 days.
The darker the chocolate, the larger the amount of theobromine, a cousin chemical to caffeine, that it contains. Thus, baker’s chocolate, semi-sweet chocolate, cocoa powder and gourmet dark chocolates are more dangerous than milk chocolate. 