Hybrids vary in appearance, but generally retain the coyote's adult sable coat color, dark neonatal coat color, bushy tail with an active supracaudal gland, and white facial mask. F 1 hybrids tend to be intermediate in form between dogs and coyotes, while F 2 hybrids are more varied. The ancestors of the coyote diverged from those of the gray wolf, 1–2 million years ago, with the modern species arising in North America during the Middle Pleistocene.
A coyotes fur is gray, light brown, a little bit of dark brown, a little bit of white, and usually when the sun is shining or its is hot in the summer you see a bit of red tin … t on a coyotes fur. 8 people found this useful. 
It also has a bushy, black-tipped drooping tail. Coyotes range in color from a dull yellow to gray. The fur on the upper part of the body, like the back and neck, is usually buff-gray. Black-tipped hairs give these parts a darker appearance than the cream-colored fur on the coyote's underparts. Coyote in winter. The size of a coyote's home range (the area that they live in and travel for food) depends on factors like how much plant cover there is, food availability, and number of coyotes in the area. In Wisconsin, coyote home ranges are generally 5-10 square miles in size.
Click to enlarge. Eastern coyotes differ from their western counterparts with a larger average size and various color phases, including blonde, red and black. Past interbreeding between wolves and coyotes may be responsible for the larger size and color variations in our eastern coyote. In New Jersey, adult coyotes range in weight from 20-50 lbs. and exceptionally large ones may be up to 55 lbs. 
Description and Life History. Coyotes can be difficult to distinguish from a medium sized German shepherd dog from a distance. There is wide variation in the coyote's color, but generally their upper body is yellowish gray, and the fur covering the throat and belly is white to cream color. The coyote's ears are pointed and stand erect, unlike the ears of domestic dogs that often droop. DNR Wildlife & Habitat Wildlife Species Mammals. Coyotes can be difficult to distinguish from a medium sized German shepherd dog from a distance. There is wide variation in the coyote's color, but generally their upper body is yellowish gray, and the fur covering the throat and belly is white to cream color.
Wolves can also be black, or even white (rare in our region) and all variations in-between. In contrast, coyotes are more consistent in their color, with typical variations of grizzled brown, gray, and reddish hues. With the exception of black or white wolves, do not rely on color to distinguish between these two species. 
A coyotes fur is gray, light brown, a little bit of dark brown, a little bit of white, and usually when the sun is shining or its is hot in the summer you see a bit of red tin … t on a coyotes fur. However, coyotes and wolves can not share the same piece  of land.    Body features: coyote fur varied, but in general is mixed  brown and gray tones, the back coat and sometimes deep black,  throat and abdomen light in color. Adult coyote weighs 7 to 20 kg,  length 75 ~ 100 cm, tail is half the length. Tail root with scent  glands