Renewable energy is the energy which is generated from natural sources i.e. sun, wind, rain, tides and can be generated again and again as and when required. They are available in plenty and by far most the cleanest sources of energy available on this planet. 1 The non-renewable sources of energy that we are using are limited and are bound to expire one day. 2  Renewable sources have low carbon emissions, therefore they are considered as green and environment friendly. 3  Renewable helps in stimulating the economy and creating job opportunities.
Renewable energy is generally defined as energy that comes from resources which are naturally replenished on a human timescale, such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, waves, and geothermal heat. Renewable energy resources exist over wide geographical areas, in contrast to other energy sources, which are concentrated in a limited number of countries. Rapid deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency is resulting in significant energy security, climate change mitigation, and economic benefits.
Some of them exist infinitely (never run out, called RENEWABLE), the rest have finite amounts (they took millions of years to form, and will run out one day, called NON-RENEWABLE). Non-renewable energy is energy from fossil fuels (coal, crude oil, natural gas) and uranium. Fossil fuels are mainly made up of Carbon. It is believed that fossil fuels were formed over 300 million years ago, when the earth was a lot different in its landscape. It had swampy forests and very shallow seas. 
Non-Renewable Energy. Non-Renewable energy is the energy which is taken from the sources that are available on the earth in limited quantity and will vanish fifty-sixty years from now. Non-renewable sources are not environmental friendly and can have serious affect on our health. 1 The non-renewable sources of energy that we are using are limited and are bound to expire one day. 2  Renewable sources have low carbon emissions, therefore they are considered as green and environment friendly. 3  Renewable helps in stimulating the economy and creating job opportunities.
Non-Renewable Energy. Non-renewable fossil fuels (crude oil, natural gas, coal, oil shales and tar sands) currently supply Australia with more than 95 percent of our electrical energy needs. Non-renewable energy is energy produced by burning fossil fuels such as coal. They are non-renewable because there are finite resources of fossil fuels on the planet. If they are continually used, one day they will run out. The Advantages of Fossil Fuels. There are a few major advantages with non-renewable energy. Fossil fuels, such as coal, oil and gas are abundant in Australia so this means they are a relatively cheap fuel and readily available. Australia has enough fossil fuel resources to last for hundreds of years.
Coal, produced over millions of years, is a finite and non-renewable resource on a human time scale. A non-renewable resource (also called a finite resource) is a resource that does not renew itself at a sufficient rate for sustainable economic extraction in meaningful human time-frames. An example is carbon-based, organically-derived fuel. The original organic material, with the aid of heat and pressure, becomes a fuel such as oil or gas. Earth minerals and metal ores, fossil fuels (coal, petroleum, natural gas) and groundwater in certain aquifers are all non-renewable resources. At present, the main energy source used by humans is non-renewable fossil fuels. Since the dawn of internal combustion engine technologies in the 17th century, petroleum and other fossil fuels have remained in continual demand.
Advantages of Non-Renewable Energy Sources. There are a couple of advantages of using non-renewable energy sources. The availability of fossil fuels and coal is good. The technologies used to harness these energy sources are also well developed. These two factors, among a few others, are what make non-renewable energy as cost competitive as they are today. A non-renewable energy resource can be defined as an energy resource that cannot sustain its consumption rate. In other words, non-renewable energy is not sustainable. The energy reserves will inevitably be empty if we continue to use them.
Fossil fuel (such as oil, petroleum, natural gas and coal) and radioactive fuel (uranium) are the most common non-renewable energy sources. These resources are indeed renewable, but the fact that it takes thousands of years to grow or generate them, makes them non-sustainable and therefore non-renewable. A non-renewable energy resource can be defined as an energy resource that cannot sustain its consumption rate. In other words, non-renewable energy is not sustainable. The energy reserves will inevitably be empty if we continue to use them.