The secondary antibody type is selected according to the class of the primary antibody (e.g., IgG or IgM), the source host, and the kind of label which is preferred. Most primary antibodies are of the IgG class and are produced in a common set of host species that includes rabbit, mouse, goat or chicken. 
Antibody Function. By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Antibodies play an important role in the immune system. The immunoglobulins present on the B-lymphocyte surface send in signals to the cytoplasmic and nuclear electors. Fab-mediated functions: 1  Antigen recognition – One of the major functions of the Fab region is antigen recognition. 2  The immune system generates large number of antibodies that can recognize virtually all possible antigens present in pathogens and their products.
The choice of secondary antibody depends upon the species of animal in which the primary antibody was raised (the host species). For example, if the primary antibody is a mouse monoclonal antibody then the secondary antibody must be an anti-mouse antibody obtained from a host other than the mouse. The host species of the secondary antibody often will not affect the experiment. Best Answer: The choice of a primary antibody for a Western blot will depend on the antigen to be detected and what antibodies are available to that antigen.
The primary antibody (in purple) binds to an antigen (in red). A labeled secondary antibody (in green), then binds to the primary antibody. The label is then used to indirectly detect the antigen. Then, secondary antibody's Fab domain binds to the primary antibody's Fc domain. Since antibody's Fc domain is constant within the same animal class, only one type of secondary antibody is required to bind to many types of primary antibodies.
Secondary antibody is especially efficient in immunolabeling. In immunolabeling, primary antibody's Fab domain binds to an antigen and exposes its Fc domain to secondary antibody. Then, secondary antibody's Fab domain binds to the primary antibody's Fc domain. Since antibody's Fc domain is constant within the same animal class, only one type of secondary antibody is required to bind to many types of primary antibodies.
Another way is by way of agglutination, which is the process whereby antibodies cause cells to clump together. Finally, antibodies can cause neutralization. This is a process whereby antibodies stick to dangerous substances so they cannot harm our body's cells. Antibody Function. Antibodies, or immunoglobulins, are little glycoproteins floating around in your body that help you fight off a lot of terrible disease-causing bacteria, viruses and the like. You know that much, I'm sure.
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. The ability of an antibody to communicate with the other components of the immune system is mediated via its Fc region (located at the base of the Y), which contains a conserved glycosylation site involved in these interactions. The production of antibodies is the main function of the humoral immune system
To enhance the function of phagocytosis. The antibody binds to the antigen (on the organism). The antibody also binds to the phagocyte thus facilitating the coming together of … the antibody and phagocyte and phagocytosis can then proceed. 1 person found this useful. Answer   An antibody is what your body produces to fight of disease and infection. When a person has an autoimmune disease, the body's antibodies are attacking hea … lthy and normal cells. 3 people found this useful.