The smallest grains are called clay, then silt, then sand. Grains larger that 2 millimeters are called pebbles. Shale is a rock made mostly of clay, siltstone is made up of silt-sized grains, sandstone is made of sand-sized clasts, and conglomerate is made of pebbles surrounded by a matrix of sand or mud. Clastic sedimentary rocks are made up of pieces (clasts) of pre-existing rocks. Pieces of rock are loosened by weathering, then transported to some basin or depression where sediment is trapped. If the sediment is buried deeply, it becomes compacted and cemented, forming sedimentary rock.
Skeletonema costatum. Diatoms are unique forms of algae that grow a silica shell that is preserved in underwater sediments after they die. The diatom shell, called a frustule, is different for each species, so you can identify them through a microscope. By looking at the fossil frustules in the layers of sediment, you can see which kind of diatoms lived when that layer was deposited.
Which type of sediment is made up mainly of the shells of diatoms and radiolarians?a. terrigenous sediment c. hydrogenous sedimentb. siliceous ooze d. manganese nodules____ 8. Biogenous sediment is made up of ____.a. minerals from landb. shells and skeletons of marine organismsc. minerals from the oceand. 
Diatoms are a major group of algae, and are among the most common types of phytoplankton. Diatoms are unicellular, although they can form colonies in the shape of filaments or ribbons (e.g. Fragilaria), fans (e.g. Meridion), zigzags (e.g. Tabellaria), or stars (e.g. Asterionella). A unique feature of diatom cells is that they are enclosed within a cell wall made of silica (hydrated silicon dioxide) called a frustule.
Diatoms are algae with distinctive, transparent cell walls made of silicon dioxide hydrated with a small amount of water (Si02 + H20). Silica is the main component of glass and hydrated silica is very like the mineral opal, making these algae, often called algae in glass houses more like algae in opal houses. 
Sedimentary rocks form from sediment. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
B. Biogenic sediments-Sediments in which the grains are formed by the action of a living organism. Shells, tests, and other hard parts secreted by organisms that fall to the bottom of the ocean and slowly accumulate. When the biogenic component makes up more than 30% of the sediment the sediment is called an ooze. 
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest.
Diatoms are producers within the food chain. A unique feature of diatom cells is that they are enclosed within a cell wall made of silica (hydrated silicon dioxide) called a frustule. These frustules show a wide diversity in form, but are usually almost bilaterally symmetrical, hence the group name