Overview. The Physical Fitness (Exercise Room) space type is a space specifically designated for exercise, fitness training, and physical wellness activities. Also included are toilets, office, and general storage normally found in a Physical Fitness (Exercise Room) space to meet codes and regulations
New castle construction will cost between $300 and $600 per square foot of living space. Many other factors are involved in the costs such as land, permits, cost to bring ma … terials to a possibly remote location, bringing utilities to the property etc. My guess would be to call each square foot 1000 USD and you'd probably get a more accurate cost to build, but that is just a guess. Source: castlemagic.com, they actually build castles for a living.
1 Such a building would run at an average of $22.2 million to complete. 2  This does not include acquisition of the land or any demolition costs, however. 3  The above figures place this construction at a $463 per square foot cost, though a national average of stands between $325 and $450 for hotel contractors. 1 This does not include acquisition of the land or any demolition costs, however. 2
Durkin went with the best of the best in his 2005 build, wanting to get it right. The hardwood floor in the group fitness studio cost $38,000 for 1,600 square feet. In a later remodel at another location, he added a 2,000-square-foot studio with a $9,500 investment in an imitation wood floor. Paying $2 to $5 more per square foot for ground at the right location will make up for itself in the long run. Building on the wrong spot because of the right price is rarely the right answer.
On average, building a new finished fitness facility will cost you around $40 to $65 per square foot, depending on the geographical area and local labor costs. Finished means the entire space built, carpeted, floored, treated, and outfitted with locker areas, amenities, rooms and other considerations. For a better, inclusive estimate, I tell would-be owners that it’s going to cost, on average, $100 per square foot to open the doors to a new club. That does not include the two to three months cash reserve needed for operating expenses, nor does it cover building ownership; the $100 is a leased space estimate.
The cost to build a club in a rental space ranges between $30 and $80 or more per square foot. Generally, low-priced clubs cost between $30 to $50 per square foot. Larger box club chains and franchises cost between $40 to $60 per square foot. Higher-end clubs cost more than $60 per square foot. The cost of the building shell (foundation, walls, roof and basic mechanicals) to the point of vanilla envelope condition can range between $75 and $125
Endurance. The Fitness Room requires you have 35 Dwellers in your Vault before it can be unlocked. Building a Fitness Room allows your Dwellers in your Vault to train and increase their Endurance over time. 
The cost for a new building from the ground up is between $100 and $200 per square foot or more (excluding land) and would also include the buildout. The cost of the building shell (foundation, walls, roof and basic mechanicals) to the point of vanilla envelope condition can range between $75 and $125 or more per square foot.
There are a lot of factors and variables that change in the process. The landlord with the build out can even change this drastically. The build out will usually cost a regular fitness center at $20 (white box) sq ft to $30 a square (pretty nice build out). Crossfit would be cheaper or even cheaper to find a space that has already been built out somewhat. Monthly expenses. *Equipment leases-Down payments are usually 10 to 20% total cost for start up