Microwave oven may have sharpedges. • Verify bottom edge of cabinet is at least 66 inches fromfloor and 30 inches from cooking surface. • Bottom of microwave oven should be at least 2 inchesabove range backsplash for easy access to changehood and range lamps. • For outside ventilation, see Preparing MicrowaveExhaust Duct section.
Long story short: To install an over-the-range microwave oven, you need to have enough space between wall cabinets flanking the range and between the cooktop and ceiling. There should be a cabinet or shelf above the spot where the microwave will be installed so that you can fasten the top of the microwave to it. Most OTR microwaves are just under 30 in. wide; heights vary from about 10 to 18 inches and depths vary from 12 to about 18 inches. You can try using a stud finder (I've never had much luck with them), or look for fasteners inside the wall cabinets and measure in 16-inch increments over toward the wall where the microwave will be mounted. Wall studs are usually spaced 16 inches on-center, so you should be able to project the stud positions.
I have 12 inches between the top of the cabinets and the ceiling.This 1st photo attached is not my kitchen but it is the same design and will look just like this when our remodel is complete. The microwave with my cabinet set up will sit 1/2 inch below the cabinet. Kitchen remodel about to begin. We just ordered our new SS range and over the range microwave. There will be 16 inches of clearance from the bottom of the microwave unit to the cook top (smooth top,electric) . Hubby is worried there won't be enough clearance to work on the back burners of the stove
Tags: Electrical & Lighting. I got a new microwave for over my stove. I didn't have one there just an empty space, the instruction say that it has to be 30in from the top of the stove or counter top. the problem I have is the my microwave will stick out from my cabnets 3 1/4in and over my rear burners.
From contributor B: The bottom of the upper cabinets is a standard 54. Add the height of your microwave to determine the bottom of the cabinet over the microwave. This will put the bottom of your microwave at the 54 mark. 16-19 is the going height nowadays for modern microwaves, with 17 being the most common size. The 2006 IRC section 1901.1 requires 30 inches from stove to combustibles unless the stove manufacturer requires more. Comment from contributor O: I just mounted a GE microwave with a vent and it told me to mount at a minimum of 21 above the stove top. Comment from contributor P: I am just into this very problem with a client. The above stove cabinet was ordered for a standard vent hood over an electric stove. They then decided on a gas rang
Some manufacturers allow smaller clearances. General Electric, for example, requires that its microwaves be mounted with a minimum of 66 inches between the floor and the top of the microwave, which results in a clearance of between 13 and 16 inches from the microwave to the cooktop. The National Kitchen and Bath Association recommends that the bottom of the microwave should be no higher than 54 inches above the floor, which would allow for 18 inches of clearance between the microwave and the typical cooktop height of 36 inches.
Example of a wall-mounted support plate for an over-the-range microwave installation. 2. Hold the microwave wall template in position against the wall and mark the positions of the required fasteners. At least one of those fasteners must go into a stud; where no stud is present, drill holes for toggle bolts. You can try using a stud finder (I've never had much luck with them), or look for fasteners inside the wall cabinets and measure in 16-inch increments over toward the wall where the microwave will be mounted. Wall studs are usually spaced 16 inches on-center, so you should be able to project the stud positions.