To connect any of the box models to the TV, you’ll need an HDMI cable with full-sized plugs on each end or A/V cables for the Roku 1. These don’t come with the devices; you’ll need to provide your own. Plug one end of the cable into the box and the other end into one of the appropriate port on your TV. Here are the main benefits of the current Roku 2 over the Roku 1 and the streaming stick. 1  It has a faster processor. 2  It includes additional ports: 3  An Ethernet port so you can connect it to your Internet router with a cable in addition to wirelessly.
You can now browse your media content with your Roku remote and stream that content from your computer to your TV with no wires. You can now browse your media content with your Roku remote and stream that content from your computer to your TV with no wires. It's pretty cool. It's pretty cool. So that's how to get media off your computer and onto your TV using Roku and Plex. 
1. Connect Roku to your TV with an HDMI cable. Insert one end of an HDMI cable into the HDMI-IN port at the back of your television set. Plug the other end of the same cable into the HDMI port at the back of your Roku player. 1  Note that if your TV has multiple HDMI ports, you can use any open HDMI port available.
Place the Roku box on your TV or entertainment center and plug it into the wall outlet. Connect the box to your TV with the included AV or HDMI cable. Insert the included batteries into the Roku remote. Turn on the Roku and the TV. Press the Input or Source button on the TV remote until the Roku menu appears. Follow the instructions until the wireless setup screen appears. Use the remote to select your network and input your Wi-Fi network access code, then press next.. Turn on your computer and log in
1 Note that the Roku player does not have a Power button. 2  Make sure that your TV is off as you connect the Roku player. 3  Once connected, turn your TV on and set the display, or video input, to where you connected Roku (e.g., HDMI1, HDMI2, or A/V). 4  After plugging the Roku player in, you should get a Roku message. Connect Roku to your TV with an HDMI cable. Insert one end of an HDMI cable into the HDMI-IN port at the back of your television set. Plug the other end of the same cable into the HDMI port at the back of your Roku player. 1  Note that if your TV has multiple HDMI ports, you can use any open HDMI port available.
Roku Streaming Players and Roku Streaming Sticks are compatible with most home wireless networks. Any wireless router or access point that supports the 802.11b/g/n wireless protocols should work, including newer 802.11n dual-band routers and access points. You will need to know the following: 
Connect one end of your Ethernet cable to your Laptop. 13. Connect the other end of your Ethernet cable to your Roku’s Ethernet connection. 14. On you laptop establish your wireless hotel internet connection and complete the authentication process to make sure that you can see the internet. 
Your Roku player should start up on its own. 1  Note that the Roku player does not have a Power button. 2  Make sure that your TV is off as you connect the Roku player. 3  Once connected, turn your TV on and set the display, or video input, to where you connected Roku (e.g., HDMI1, HDMI2, or A/V). Connect Roku to your TV with an HDMI cable. Insert one end of an HDMI cable into the HDMI-IN port at the back of your television set. Plug the other end of the same cable into the HDMI port at the back of your Roku player. 1  Note that if your TV has multiple HDMI ports, you can use any open HDMI port available.
2. Placement of your Roku player. Similar to tip #1, the placement of your Roku player is important as well. You can change the direction it faces – even a few inches one way or the other may improve the reception. If you have a Roku 3 player, we recommend connecting it directly to your router via Ethernet cable. See set up instructions here. 
1. Connect to your network. If you are using a wired Internet connection, you should connect one end of your Ethernet network cable into the corresponding Ethernet port on the back of your Roku player. Hook the other end of the cable up to an open Ethernet port on your Internet router. Connect Roku to your TV with an HDMI cable. Insert one end of an HDMI cable into the HDMI-IN port at the back of your television set. Plug the other end of the same cable into the HDMI port at the back of your Roku player. 1  Note that if your TV has multiple HDMI ports, you can use any open HDMI port available.