Consumer. A consumer is a person or group of people who are the final users of products and or services generated within a social system. A consumer may be a person or group, such as a household. Wiktionary (4.50 / 2 votes) Rate this definition: consumer (Noun). One who, or that which, consumes. consumer (Noun). someone who trades money for goods as an individual. This new system favours the consumer over the producer. consumer (Noun). an organism that uses other organisms for food in order to gain energy
Consumerism as a social and economic order and ideology encourages the acquisition of goods and services in ever-increasing amounts. Vance Packard worked to change the meaning of the term consumerism from a positive word about consumer practices to a negative word meaning excessive materialism and waste. The ads for his 1960 book The Waste Makers prominently featured the word consumerism in a negative way.
History and definitions [edit]. The term popular culture was coined in the 19th century or earlier. Traditionally, popular culture was associated with poor education and the lower classes, as opposed to the official culture and higher education of the upper classes. The abbreviated form pop for popular. as in pop music, dates from the late 1950s. Although terms pop and popular are in some cases used interchangeably, and their meaning partially overlap, the term pop is narrower. Pop is specific of something containing qualities of mass appeal, while popular refers to what has gained popularity, regardless of its style
Popular culture is often viewed as being trivial and  dumbed down  in order to find consensual acceptance throughout the mainstream. The abbreviated form pop for popular. as in pop music, dates from the late 1950s. Although terms pop and popular are in some cases used interchangeably, and their meaning partially overlap, the term pop is narrower. Pop is specific of something containing qualities of mass appeal, while popular refers to what has gained popularity, regardless of its style
Baby names. Welcome to SheKnows baby names, where you can find the perfect name for your new bundle of joy. We have over 30,000 baby names that range from the unique, and most popular, to ones for your beautiful little girl, or ones with swagger for the little boy in your life. Take some time to look through our list, search by origin, or meaning, or most popular by decade, or highest rated. Enjoy, and congratulations!
Word Root of POPULAR. The Latin word populus, meaning “ people, ” gives us the root popul. Words from the Latin populus have something to do with people. A popul ation is the group of people living in a particular place. Anything popul ar is common among or enjoyed by many people
In today’s era where everyone is in a rush, no one has time to even text a full message, that is why texting symbols are used a lot of the time. And the other reason for huge popularity of Texting Symbols are used, is its a thing of today’s generation and not everyone can understand the symbols. Unfortunately, a lot of older people out there are not familiar with the new and hip lingo that teenagers are using to express themselves in these text messages. 
A broken arrow image is one that depicts peace or the burying of the hatchet. Two arrows crossed is a symbol of friendship. A bundle of five arrows typically designates strength, as a single arrow can be easily broken, but a bundle of arrows is tougher to break. 