They also help remove carbon dioxide (a waste gas that can be toxic) from your body. The lungs' intake of oxygen and removal of carbon dioxide is called gas exchange. Gas exchange is part of breathing. Breathing is a vital function of life; it helps your body work properly. Other organs and tissues also help make breathing possible. 
The alveoli in the lungs are coated with a moist film that dissolves air in the lungs. Oxygen diffuses across the thin epithelium of the alveoli sacs into the blood within the surrounding capillaries. Carbon dioxide also diffuses from the blood in the capillaries to the alveoli air sacs. The now oxygen rich blood is returned to the heart via the pulmonary veins. Carbon dioxide is expelled from the lungs by exhalation. The lungs are organs of the respiratory system that allow us to take in and expel air. In the breathing process, the lungs take in oxygen from the air through inhalation. Carbon dioxide produced by cellular respiration is in turn released through
The lungs provide a surface for gas exchange in mammals. Inside the lungs are the alveoli, in which oxygen dissolves into the blood. Is is basically a gas exchange. The lungs filter the heart with fresh oxygen and get it in the blood and pumped into the rest of the body until you breath out, which makes carbon dioxide! This is called the pulmonary circulation. From your pulmonic valve, blood travels to the pulmonary artery to tiny capillary vessels in the lungs. Here, oxygen travels from the tiny air sacs in the lungs, through the walls of the capillaries, into the blood. At the same time, carbon dioxide, a waste product of metabolism, passes from the blood into the air sacs. Carbon dioxide leaves the body when you exhale.
Your lungs are a pair of large organs in your chest and are part of your respiratory system. When you breathe, air enters your body through your nose or mouth. It next passes through your windpipe (trachea) and through each bronchus, and finally goes into your lungs. When you breathe in, your lungs expand with air. 
In the alveoli, oxygen from the air is absorbed into the blood. Carbon dioxide, a waste product of metabolism, travels from the blood to the alveoli, where it can be exhaled. Between the alveoli is a thin layer of cells called the interstitium, which contains blood vessels and cells that help support the alveoli. 
The bronchioles end in tiny balloon-like air sacs called alveoli. Your body has over 300 million alveoli. The alveoli are surrounded by a mesh of tiny blood vessels called capillaries. Here, oxygen from the inhaled air passes through the alveoli walls and into the blood. After absorbing oxygen, the blood leaves the lungs and is carried to your heart. Your heart then pumps it through your body to provide oxygen to the cells of your tissues and organs. As the cells use the oxygen, carbon dioxide is produced and absorbed into the blood
1 CAPILLARIES are blood vessels in the walls of the alveoli. 2  Blood passes through the capillaries, entering through your PULMONARY ARTERY and leaving via your PULMONARY VEIN. 3  While in the capillaries, blood gives off carbon dioxide through the capillary wall into the alveoli and takes up oxygen from air in the alveoli. See what healthy lungs can do for you. Every cell in your body needs oxygen in order to live. The air we breathe contains oxygen and other gases. Once in the lungs, oxygen is moved into the bloodstream and carried through your body. At each cell in your body, oxygen is exchanged for a waste gas called carbon dioxide. Your bloodstream then carries this waste gas back to the lungs where it is removed from the blood stream and then exhaled
When the germs that cause pneumonia reach your lungs, the lungs' air sacs (alveoli) become inflamed and fill up with fluid. This causes the symptoms of pneumonia, such as a cough, fever, chills, and trouble breathing. When you have pneumonia, oxygen may have trouble reaching your blood. 