Blood Urea Nitrogen. Guide. A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of nitrogen in your blood that comes from the waste product urea. Urea is made when protein is broken down in your body. Urea is made in the liver and passed out of your body in the urine. A BUN test is done to see how well your kidneys are working. A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test is done to: 1  See if your kidneys are working normally. 2  See if your kidney disease is getting worse. 3  See if treatment of your kidney disease is working. 4  Check for severe dehydration
A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of urea nitrogen found in your blood. BUN levels help your doctor see how well your kidneys are working. The test may be used along with other measurements to help diagnose a kidney disorder or find out how well your treatment for kidney disease is working. 
A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test checks kidney function by measuring how much urea nitrogen is in your blood. Urea nitrogen is a waste product from the breakdown of protein in the body. Normally, this waste is filtered by the kidneys and leaves the body through urine. Too much or too little urea nitrogen in the blood could signify kidney problems. The BUN test is frequently done along with other tests to diagnose or monitor kidney diseases. This test can also show whether your current kidney treatments are working. Test results may also indicate liver or urinary tract issues
The remaining waste forms urine. If the creatinine and BUN tests are found to be abnormal or if someone has an underlying disease that is known to affect the kidneys, such as diabetes or high blood pressure, then creatinine and BUN tests may be used to monitor for kidney dysfunction and the effectiveness of treatment. Urea is released by the liver into the blood and is carried to the kidneys, where it is filtered out of the blood and released into the urine. Since this is an ongoing process, there is usually a small but stable amount of urea nitrogen in the blood.
Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN): Urea nitrogen is a normal waste product in your blood that comes from the breakdown of protein from the foods you eat and from your body metabolism. It is normally removed from your blood by your kidneys, but when kidney function slows down, the BUN level rises. 
Blood urea nitrogen to creatinine ratio (BUN:creatinine). A BUN test may be done with a blood creatinine test. The level of creatinine in your blood also tells how well your kidneys are working-a high creatinine level may mean your kidneys are not working properly. A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test is done to: 1  See if your kidneys are working normally. 2  See if your kidney disease is getting worse. 3  See if treatment of your kidney disease is working. 4  Check for severe dehydration
The blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the level of urea nitrogen in a sample of the patient's blood. Urea is a substance that is formed in the liver when the body breaks down protein. 
Urea is a waste product formed in the liver when protein is metabolized into its component parts (amino acids) . This process produces ammonia, which is then converted into the less toxic waste product urea. This test measures the amount of urea nitrogen in the blood. Nitrogen is a component of both ammonia and urea. 