Overview. Seanol is a little known sea extract that has been found by scientists to be some of the most powerful antioxidants available. Some incredible studies have found that your cholesterol can be improved and even the protective HDL cholesterol can be raised after taking Seanol for just 8 weeks. It can improve the joints and also help your circulation and blood flow. Ecklonia Cava is the name of the unique super antioxidant that is derived from special brown seaweed. Growing near Japan and Korea 100 feet under the sea, Seanol is up to 100 times stronger than the antioxidants found on land.
Seanol is a powerful anti-aging solution extracted from the Ecklonia Cava seaweed to sum up an anti-aging power over 3000 times that of most of the antioxidant nutrients currently sold throughout the world. Can Seanol help me…. The Seanol supplements are a unique seaweed extract from the Ecklonia Cava seaweed of the deep ocean floors. The Seanol antioxidant supplements are sold in a pack of 30 capsules, making it the ideal supplement pack for people keen on fighting the possible effects that come with the aging process.
Ecklonia cava is an edible marine brown alga species found in the ocean off Japan and Korea. It is used as a herbal remedy in the form of an extract called Seanol, a polyphenolic extract. Another phlorotannin-rich natural agent, Ventol, is also extracted from E. cava. 
Health Concerns – Dangerous Ingredients. Something else that we found concerning was that some Seanol products contained lead. Lead can lead to birth defects, and can cause other long-term health problems, so the inclusion of lead, even in trace amounts, is a cause for major concern. Seanol is a relatively new type of supplement that is designed to help consumers improve the strength of their immune system and help fight against harmful bacteria and other free radicals that may potentially result in illnesses or in people not feeling their best.
Seanol is an extract of a deep sea brown algae called Ecklonia Cava, which is found in the oceans of Japan and Korea. It is organic complex of unique aquatic molecules and it contains chemicals that work as antioxidants. These chemicals prevent damage to the body’s cells that can lead to cancer and other diseases. It is up to 100 times stronger than land-based antioxidants, and it is actually the only seaweed extract authorized by FDA. Blueberries are the highest antioxidant found on land and they have the antioxidant power of 2400 units. However, Seanol-P beats that significantly with it’s power of 8368 units.
Photo Credit Mastamak/iStock/Getty Images. Seanol is the brand name for a type of brown algae called ecklonia cava. Some products contain Seanol or Seanol-F; however, there is little difference in these extracts other than the name. Both Seanol and Seanol-F contain ecklonia cava with additional ingredients. Another form of Seanol, called Seanol-P, is designed to improve vision. Consult your physician before taking any supplements. Seanol and Seanol-F are both ecklonia cava extracts sold in the United States. Different supplement manufacturers use either the name Seanol or Seanol-F to describe the ecklonia cava extract in their supplement, but the same ingredient is contained in each. Seanol is a name trademarked by the Simply Healthy Corporation.
SEANOL is a polyphenol complex extracted from a particular seaweed called Ecklonia cava, which grows off the coasts of Japan, Korea and China. Over $35 million dollars in the past 14 years has been spent on research supporting SEANOL's development. 
Seanol-P is a standardized extract of natural compounds from edible brown algae. It is up to 100 times stronger than land-based antioxidants, and it is actually the only seaweed extract authorized by FDA. Blueberries are the highest antioxidant found on land and they have the antioxidant power of 2400 units. However, Seanol-P beats that significantly with it’s power of 8368 units.