Most / Least Educated Cities in CO. The average temperature of Evergreen is 40.32°F, which is much lower than the Colorado average temperature of 46.26°F and is much lower than the national average temperature of 54.45°F. They were calculated based on the average temperate and duration of the hot and cold days for the area. Please note, the actual heating cost and cooling cost are also dependent on other factors specific to individual residences such as the size of the house, the insulation condition, and the equipment efficiency, etc.
The highest average temperature in Evergreen is July at 80.1 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Evergreen is December at 35.4 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Evergreen occurs in January with 0 inches. The Evergreen weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading...
Evergreen, Colorado, gets 19 inches of rain per year. The US average is 37. Snowfall is 84 inches. The average US city gets 25 inches of snow per year. The number of days with any measurable precipitation is 84. On average, there are 248 sunny days per year in Evergreen, Colorado. The July high is around 82 degrees. The January low is 10. Our comfort index, which is based on humidity during the hot months, is a 58 out of 100, where higher is more comfortable. The US average on the comfort index is 44.
High pressure across the majority of the continental US is keeping conditions dry and warmer through Wednesday. Even as rivers continue to recede in South Carolina, moderate to major flooding likely to persist through the end of the week at some locations. Read More... 
12. 8. Climate data for evergreen, Longitude: -105.315, Latitude: 39.6381. Average weather Evergreen, CO - 80437 - 1981-2010 normals. Jan: January, Feb: February, Mar: March, Apr: April, May: May, Jun: June, Jul: July, Aug: August, Sep: September, Oct: October, Nov: November, Dec: December. 
U.S. 16.93 mph. * The temperature, snow fall, and precipitation information on this page were calculated from the historical data of 18,000+ U.S weather stations for the period of time from 1980 to 2010. They were calculated based on the average temperate and duration of the hot and cold days for the area. Please note, the actual heating cost and cooling cost are also dependent on other factors specific to individual residences such as the size of the house, the insulation condition, and the equipment efficiency, etc.
Some Rain Along parts of the East Coast Tonight. A cold front along the East Coast will bring rain to parts of the Northeast and Florida through Tuesday night. High temperatures Wednesday continue to be 15 to 20 degrees above average over parts of the Central Plains. Read More...
The Evergreen, CO air quality index is 41.1% greater than the Colorado average and 8.6% greater than the national average. The Evergreen, CO pollution index is the sum of the most hazardous air pollutants displayed in pounds. The coldest average temperature in Evergreen is December at 35.4 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Evergreen occurs in January with 0 inches. The Evergreen weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading...