How to Recover a Deleted File or Folder from a Network Drive How to Recover a Deleted File or Folder from a Network Drive Below will be instructions on how to recover a deleted file from a network drive. Network Drives will be drives other than C:, D:, or E:. Also, this process will ONLY recover the file(s) or folder that was there correctly 20 – 30 minutes ago. If the file(s) or folder has been missing for longer than that time, please contact the IT Helpdesk at extension 7200. 1) Go to the location where the file(s) or folder was deleted via the Windows Explorer. To start the Windows Explorer, double click on My Computer or click on START for Windows – Then click on Programs – Then Accessories – Then Windows Explorer. You should get the below window: How to Recover a Deleted File or Folder from a Network Drive. 2) Locate the area where the file(s) or folder used to be
For more details, check out how to recover files from a wiped hard drive with PhotoRec (original post) or how to recover data from a crashed hard drive with PC Inspector File Recovery (original post). 
Sorry for this stupid question. If i've deleted a file on the network shared drive, it's not in my recycle. bin or recycel bin on server, then how can i recover it. THanks. calvin. More about: deleted file network share drive. Hi, Sorry for this stupid question. If i've deleted a file on the network shared drive, it's not in my recycle. bin or recycel bin on server, then how can i recover it. THanks. calvin. More about: deleted file network share drive. Anonymous.
WinUndelete&#153 is the leading undelete software for deleted files recovery. It can recover deleted files from hard drive, flash drive, USB external drive, digital camera card, and more. WinUndelete recovers deleted files after emptying the Recycle Bin, or using other deletion actions that bypass the Recycle Bin.
I recently deleted some files from a laptop harddrive. I deleted from another computer, with the laptop C drive being shared. Now, uh oh, I should not have deleted one. Stupid me. Obviously the files are not in the recycle bin of either the laptop or the remote computer. 
Re: How to recover the deleted shared folder on Google Drive. Felicity_BB. 12/21/13 12:30 PM. If you delete a folder or document that is owned by someone else and shared with you, then it is only removed from your Google Drive view-not deleted from the owner's perspective. 
Using Data Recovery Software. ParetoLogic’s Data Recovery Pro can find lost files, email attachments, messages, and even files on external devices. Data Recovery Pro can also help you recover files from a deleted hard drive, or recreate the drive in its entirety. Move Fast! Almost every activity you conduct on your computer writes information to the hard drive. 
Select the file to be undeleted and click on the Recover button to restore it to your hard drive. This will simply change the file back to its original name, so that it can once again be seen by the operating system. Repeat as often as needed to recover additional files from the drive. A network drive is a shared drive that can be accessed by any member of the network and is useful as a type of communal storage space. However, accidents can occur with a shared drive, as one user will be able to destroy the data of another user. Almost anything is recoverable from a computer's hard drive, however, requiring only the use of a simple piece of file recovery softwar