Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: In Ohio, $500 cash is felony theft. However, there are other circumstances that can make less money a felony, like committing robbery or fraud to get that money, for example. Source(s): Law enforcement, 11 years. Lov4nzyx2 · 7 years ago
The law varies from state to state and even within a state it depends upon the situation. In Illinois for example, a simple theft becomes a felony when the property taken is valued at $300 or greater. However, if the property comes from a store, that is retail theft, and the value need only be $150 to be a felony. Also, if someone has a prior theft or retail theft conviction, then it may be charged as a felony even if the value is only a penny. For more information about felony prosecutions see the links below. Whether or not theft by conversion is a felony depends on the value  of the theft. Generally, if the value is over 5,000 dollars, it is  a felony. Some states have a lower v … alue to qualify as a felony.
The law varies from state to state and even within a state it depends upon the situation. In Illinois for example, a simple theft becomes a felony when the property take … n is valued at $300 or greater. However, if the property comes from a store, that is retail theft, and the value need only be $150 to be a felony. What is statute on felony theft in Texas?     $1,500 or     more but less than $20,000     State jail felony     180 days to 2 years in a state jail and/or a fine of not more than $10,000 …  .
Shoplifting in Virginia falls under Virginia larceny laws. Different classes of larceny include: 1  Grand Larceny: Theft of $200 or more (Felony). 2  Petite Larceny : (Petty Larceny) Theft of less than $200 (Misdemeanor). Larceny/Theft/Shoplifting of items valued at over $200 is a felony, with a maximum sentence of up to 20 years in prison. Larceny/Theft/Shoplifting of items valued at under $200 is a misdemeanor, with a maximum sentence of up to 1 year in jail
Shoplifting can either be a misdemeanor or felony. Misdemeanor shoplifting (called petit larceny), means that the value of the property that was allegedly stolen is less than $200. A felony shoplifting charge (called grand larceny) is the theft of property valued at $200 or more. Shoplifting charges must be taken very seriously, even if it is only a first offense. A conviction for felony or misdemeanor shoplifting in Virginia will remain on your criminal record forever, and could leave you facing jail time, fines, and a variety of other negative consequences.
Theft is a felony if the value of the property exceeds $3300 or the property is stolen from the person of another. Thresholds at $10,000, $100,000, and $500,000 determine how severe the punishment can be. The location from which property was stolen is also a factor in sentencing. In the United States, a theft is determined felony grand theft instead of misdemeanor petty theft by the dollar amount of what was stolen. The dollar amount for grand theft varies from state to state.
Larceny is a serious crime under Virginia law, and the penalties can be unusually strict. Even a first offense larceny/shoplifting charge is a felony if the item stolen is valued at over $200. Any shoplifting or larceny charge of items worth under $200 is still a serious misdemeanor criminal charge. Larceny/Theft/Shoplifting of items valued at over $200 is a felony, with a maximum sentence of up to 20 years in prison. Larceny/Theft/Shoplifting of items valued at under $200 is a misdemeanor, with a maximum sentence of up to 1 year in jail
It depends on the state in which you live or where you have committed the crime. The average is around $600 but can be much higher or lower than that. You can see each state … 's dollar amount for a felony charge on the link below. What is statute on felony theft in Texas?     $1,500 or     more but less than $20,000     State jail felony     180 days to 2 years in a state jail and/or a fine of not more than $10,000 …  .