Lecture Notes-Petrology-Igneous Rock Names • Geologists have developed many classification schemes for igneous rocks. Most use texture,mineralogy, and chemistry (in that order) to determine a rock’s name. The first cut is toseparate coarse-grained (generally plutonic) from fine-grained (generally volcanic) rocks. 
Granite and basalt are the most common types of igneous rock.   Igneous rock types, or classifications, also include those that are intrusive and extrusive. Intrusive igneo … us rock is formed from the solidification of slow cooling magma below the surface. Extrusive igneous rock is formed for the solidification of rapidly cooling lava at or near the surface. 12 people found this useful. Alex Buckley. Confidence votes 3. To the people that are doing the Rock Worksheet the answer for problem #5 is in the paper but the answer is actually (what I put), Another name for igneous rocks is the rock of fire..
Igneous rocks are rocks formed from the crystallization of a liquid (molten rock). Igneous rocks may be divided into two categories. Intrusive or plutonic rocks crystallize from magma beneath the earth's surface. Igneous Rocks. Of the three principal rock types (igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic), igneous rocks can be thought of as primary rocks because they crystallize from a liquid. Sedimentary and metamorphic rocks, which we will study later, may be thought of as derivative rocks.
Metamorphic rocks can form from either sedimentary or igneous rocks. The sedimentary particles from which a sedimentary rock is formed can be derived from a metamorphic, an igneous, or another sedimentary rock. All three rock types can be melted to form a magma. 
Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of a planet, surrounded by pre-existing rock (called country rock); the magma cools slowly and, as a result, these rocks are coarse grained. The mineral grains in such rocks can generally be identified with the naked eye. The word igneous is derived from the Latin ignis, meaning of fire. Volcanic rocks are named after Vulcan, the Roman name for the god of fire. Intrusive rocks are also called plutonic rocks, named after Pluto, the Roman god of the underworld.
On the other hand an Intrusive igneous rock cools very slowly beneath the surface and is created by magma. Since the cooling process is very slow intrusive igneous rocks have very large crystals (coarse grained). In some instances there is also a third type of igneous rock. Technically it is an extrusive rock, but it resembles glass. This glass type of igneous rock forms when magma/lava is instantly cooled.
Intrusive igneous rock is formed from solidified magma below the surface of the Earth. Intrusive rock exhibits a phaneritic texture, where the individual crystal grains are vi … sible without magnification. Examples of intrusive igneous rocks are granite, diorite, and gabbro. 1 Igneous rocks, which are formed from magma, are furt…. 2  An Introduction to the Mineral Biotite Mica and its Role in Geology Biotite mica is a common rock-forming mineral. 3  It belongs to a large group of minerals that are found in igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Igneous rock (derived from the Latin word ignis meaning fire) is one of the three main rock types, the others being sedimentary and metamorphic. Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust. The word igneous is derived from the Latin ignis, meaning of fire. Volcanic rocks are named after Vulcan, the Roman name for the god of fire. Intrusive rocks are also called plutonic rocks, named after Pluto, the Roman god of the underworld.