Some kind of wooden frame will be partly embedded into the fiberglass to help support it. If there are skids that should touch the subfloor but do not you can use shims to support them. I had a shower enclosure that was not well supported underneath. For completeness: Both the floor and the tub are level. The tub has a honeycomb structure underneath that is supposed to be supported by quickset. There is a little foot at each of the 4 corners which lift the honeycomb about 1.5in off of the floor. So, to me, this looks like an installation problem.
I saw an article in FHB a while back where the author was using great stuff foam insulation under his fiberglass tub installs. We'll I have two fiberglass tubs to install in my own house and DW is afraid that when the great stuff expands it will lift or distort the tub [she saw how it bowed the window frames]. The installation manual for the tubs calls for using construction adhesive or a 2 moarter bed. 
Mortar. Full bed support. Easy to level the tub even if the floor is out of whack. You can lay a thicker bed if you need to raise the tub a bit, use a thinner bed if minimial height is desired. For drop-in tubs, set your bed, drop in the tub, then depress the tub until it settles to the deck. 
Originally Posted by Doug Aleshire Ensure that you do not get any around the tub drain assembly should you need to do anything down the line. In most cases, the holes cut for the drain lines will keep any base support away from it. Hope this helps! Doug, thanks for your guidance. This is one area where you do not want anything there-you need to have access to the p-trap and tub drain assembly just in case. The 2x2 patch you mentioned I assume is from the wall out. You just need to ensure that you have adequate support under the majority of the tub bottom
Maybe the tub is level, but the floor is not. I assume it's possible that one of the corners of the tub are not touching the floor. When you get in it, your weight is enough to cause movement, but not enough to set the tub into place if it is supported by the wall. For completeness: Both the floor and the tub are level. The tub has a honeycomb structure underneath that is supposed to be supported by quickset. There is a little foot at each of the 4 corners which lift the honeycomb about 1.5in off of the floor. So, to me, this looks like an installation problem.
If the tub is on a second floor, then there's no access (unless there is a closet next to or behind the tub and you are willing to cut open a closet wall). Even with this type of access, it's going to be difficult to push enough mortar deep enough under the tub. I have been with him for 5 years and have never put anything under the tub and never had 1 complaint. Lasco and sterling both say you dont need anything under them. I dont know about National, kohler, or Aker.
1. Measure the width -- typically 30 to 36 inches -- of the tub planned for the installation, Include any nailing flange in the width. If the width is 32 inches, you can stick to a standard floor joist spacing of 16 inches on center, such that a joist will fall under the long side of the tub away from the wall. For other widths, enlarge or shrink the distances between joists so the long side of the tub rests over the doubled joists.
Well I’ve developed a high quality procedure that addresses these concerns, for cracked fiberglass tub repair & cracked shower pan bottoms. First we will need to add support, assuming there is a sub-floor under the unit. It’s important to understand the “Why” it happened and what to do about it now. Repairs to cracked fiberglass bathtub & shower pan bottoms are worthless unless the underlying cause is addressed. Namely installing the proper support under the fiberglass tub or shower pan.
I'm assuming you have a fiberglass tub/shower unit. The squishy feeling you describe is the tub bottom flexing. Before setting a fiberglass tub, a good plumber will take the time to place mortar or plaster of paris underneath the tub to give the bottom some support. I have been with him for 5 years and have never put anything under the tub and never had 1 complaint. Lasco and sterling both say you dont need anything under them. I dont know about National, kohler, or Aker.