Standardized IQ tests are designed so that the exact average (mean) IQ score in the general population is 100. An ‘ average IQ score’ or ‘normal IQ score’ can be defined as a score between 85 and 115 – between plus and minus one standard deviation from the average. (See the table below). With standardized IQ tests, IQ tests are designed so that their scores have a ‘bell curve’ distribution in the general population with an average of 100. This curve has a peak in the middle where most people score and tapering ends where only a few people score. In statistics this is called a normal distribution.
Last 10 results of this IQ Test : The bell curve (also called a normal curve or normal distribution) is a graph that shows approximately how much of the population falls into each IQ range. In theory, if we tested everyone in the world with a traditional IQ test, most people would score in the  Average range. A smaller number would score moderately below average and moderately above average. Very high and very low scores are rare.
IQ classification is the practice by IQ test publishers of labeling IQ score ranges with (somewhat subjective) category names such as superior or average. There are several publishers of tests of cognitive abilities. In this method, an IQ score of 100 means that the test-taker's performance on the test is at the median level of performance in the sample of test-takers of about the same age used to norm the test.
By this definition, approximately two-thirds of the population scores between IQ 85 and IQ 115, and about 5 percent of the population scores above 125. IQ scores have been shown to be associated with such factors as morbidity and mortality, parental social status, and, to a substantial degree, biological parental IQ. An intelligence quotient (IQ) is a score derived from one of several standardized tests designed to assess human intelligence. The abbreviation IQ was coined by the psychologist William Stern for the German term Intelligenz-quotient, his term for a scoring method for intelligence tests he advocated in a 1912 book.
50% of IQ scores fall between 90 and 110. 70% of IQ scores fall between 85 and 115. 95% of IQ scores fall between 70 and 130. 99.5% of IQ scores fall between 60 and 140. Low IQ & Mental Retardation. An IQ under 70 is considered as mental retardation or limited mental ability. 5% of the population falls below 70 on IQ tests
An IQ score of 115 means performance one standard deviation above the median, a score of 85 performance one standard deviation below the median, and so on. Lewis Terman and other early developers of IQ tests noticed that most child IQ scores come out to approximately the same number by either procedure. In this method, an IQ score of 100 means that the test-taker's performance on the test is at the median level of performance in the sample of test-takers of about the same age used to norm the test.
The IQ score bell curve. With standardized IQ tests, IQ tests are designed so that their scores have a ‘bell curve’ distribution in the general population with an average of 100. This curve has a peak in the middle where most people score and tapering ends where only a small percentage of people score. 68% of people score between 85 and 115. The Mensa qualifying IQ score is a score that puts you in the top 2% of the population in a bell curve like this one. The Mensa qualifying score is 130 or higher, as shown below. This table indicates how IQ levels can be classified.
An ‘ average IQ score’ or ‘normal IQ score’ can be defined as a score between 85 and 115. 68% of people score between 85 and 115. The Mensa qualifying IQ score is a score that puts you in the top 2% of the population in a bell curve like this one. The Mensa qualifying score is 130 or higher, as shown below. This table indicates how IQ levels can be classified.
The average IQ for an adult is anywhere from 90 to 115. Just to give some figures the average IQ for one that has a mental disibility ranges from 30 to 50 and the IQ for one t … hat is a genius is 140 and higher. You can find complete information about IQ by going on best-iq-test (dot) com and then click on IQ. Well the average IQ of a person is 100 (by definition of IQ) But I am only 11 and mine is 131, so hopefully it would be higher than that for an adult! (either that or I' … m really smart!).