Tigers prefer to live in areas with dense vegetation because it is in these areas that they can better use their camouflage. A Sense of Territory. A habitat is not just a place to live and prey in but also a place for tigers to congregate and to establish a sense of territory.
Home » Information » Tiger Habitat. The tiger is native to Asia from the Caucasus and the Caspian Sea to Siberia in the north and Indonesia and even in Borneo and the Philippines in the south.
Bengal or Indian tiger— This is the most common subspecies of tiger and is almost as large as the Siberian tiger. Fewer than 2,500 Bengal tigers remain in their native habitat of India, Nepal, and Pakistan. Indochinese tiger— These tigers are about 20 percent smaller and are darker than Bengal tigers.
Habitat destruction is one of the main causes why tigers have become endangered. So, it is just right to discuss what the habitat had been like and is like. Tigers used to populate several areas of Asia, including Bali, Java and Sumatra, which are Indonesian islands.
This problem has become more of an issue due to the natural environment for tigers being destroyed at an alarming rate, as a male tiger may have a territory of up to 60 to 100 square kilometers, while females up to 20 square kilometers, as this numbers change according with the habitat and subspecies.
But in their natural habitat Where an animal or plant normally lives and grows. , tigers are really hard to find. That’s because their unique orange, black and white stripe pattern helps them blend into the forests and grassy areas where they live and hunt.
Habitat. Tigers live in Asia. Larger subspecies, such as the Siberian tiger, tend to live in northern, colder areas, such as eastern Russia and northeastern China. Smaller subspecies live in southern, warmer countries, such as India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia.
Tiger Habitat and Distribution. The tiger is native to Asia from the Caucasus and the Caspian Sea to Siberia in the north and Indonesia and even in Borneo and the Philippines in the south.