All that said, an excellent credit score is generally one that will allow you to qualify for most any loan or credit card with the lowest interest rate. Obviously having an excellent credit score can save you a ton of money on everything from your car insurance to your auto lease to your mortgage. Over the years, the savings could enter the five to six-digit range. Seriously.
When you apply for a credit card or mortgage, there’s a good chance the creditor is basing the decision on your FICO scores (you have three, one each from Equifax, Experian and TransUnion). If you want to know how good (or bad) your score is, what you really should be doing is basing that decision on your FICO scores.
Scoring Breakdown. The interpretation of your credit score really only matters to a particular lender. While 720-plus is often considered excellent, a March 2015 Bankrate article reported that mortgage lenders offer the most favorable loan opportunities to people who have FICO scores of 740 and above.
The FICO credit score is the most widely used score in lending decisions and ranges from 300 to 850. A FICO score of 750 to 850 is considered excellent, and those with a score in that range have access to the lowest rates and best loan terms, according to myFICO.com, the consumer division of FICO.
An excellent credit score is a rating from a reporting bureau that typically gives you access to the best rates and terms on loans. As of 2015, a Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) credit score of 720 and above is generally considered excellent, according to Zillow.
Save. kieferpix/iStock/Getty Images. An excellent credit score is a rating from a reporting bureau that typically gives you access to the best rates and terms on loans. As of 2015, a Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) credit score of 720 and above is generally considered excellent, according to Zillow.
The Equifax Credit Score is based on an Equifax Credit Score model and is not the same as scores used by 3rd parties to assess your creditworthiness. 1. Get your Equifax Credit Report and Score for $15.95. Equifax Credit Report and Score retail price is $15.95.