TINU syndrome: TINU syndrome is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Kidney conditions. 2  Urinary system conditions. 3  Eye and vision conditions. 4  Head conditions. 5  Autoimmune conditions. 6  Immune system conditions. TINU syndrome is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that TINU syndrome, or a subtype of TINU syndrome, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. Source-National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). TINU is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that TINU, or a subtype of TINU, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. Source-National Institutes of Health (NIH).
TINU: TINU is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Kidney conditions. 2  Urinary system conditions. 3  Eye and vision conditions. 4  Head conditions. 5  Autoimmune conditions. 6  Immune system conditions. 7  Non-pathogenic inflammatory conditions. TINU is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that TINU, or a subtype of TINU, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. Source-
INTRODUCTION. A unique subset of patients with interstitial nephritis has the TINU syndrome (tubulointerstitial nephritis and uveitis). First described in 1975 [ 1 ], more than 250 cases have now been reported [ 2,3 ]. Another study by the same group confirmed that the mCRP is higher among patients with TINU syndrome and late-onset uveitis compared with those with drug-induced interstitial nephritis [ 3 ]. The inflammation in TINU syndrome is thought to be T-lymphocyte driven, based upon the histologic findings. In contrast, immune cells in patients with TINU syndrome have a paradoxical suppression of cytokine production and a decrease in peripheral immune response, as demonstrated by anergy to skin testing
The long name is tubulo interstitial nephritis and uveitis. That means “your kidneys and your eyes are inflamed.” They think it’s probably autoimmune. Not much info on line about this, but very few people have been diagnosed with it. (The theory is that the eye inflammation had been suppressed by the prednisone I was taking for the kidneys). We started over at 60 mg a day again, planning on a month at each stage, reducing the dose 10 mg per month. Now, I can’t tell what is TINU and what is prednisone
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Tinnu Anand (sometimes referred as Tinu Anand or Virender Raj Anand) is an Indian actor and director from Bollywood, who is most known as the director of Amitabh Bachchan 's movies including, Kaalia (1981), Shahenshah (1988), Main Azaad Hoon (1989) and Major Saab (1998). 
TINU syndrome (medical condition): A rare disorder characterized by neurological degeneration and... more ». See also: Tubulointerstitial nephritis and uveitis : » Introduction: Tubulointerstitial nephritis and uveitis. » Symptoms of Tubulointerstitial nephritis and uveitis. TINU syndrome is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that TINU syndrome, or a subtype of TINU syndrome, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. Source-National Institutes of Health (NIH).