Fungi-Nail is an antifungal that kills fungus to eliminate the infection around the nails. You should see improvements in appearance and healthy tissue while using Fungi-Nail in as little as 4 weeks, however, it may take longer depending on severity, and it takes 6-9 months for a new nail to grow out.
The conditions like nail fungus infection takes long time to cure where as jock itch can be cure faster. In the same topical application of medicine can bring about the cure much faster than oral consumption of the medicine.
Nail fungus. Nail fungus is a common condition that begins as a white or yellow spot under the tip of your fingernail or toenail. As the fungal infection goes deeper, nail fungus may cause your nail to discolor, thicken and crumble at the edge. It can affect several nails but usually not all of them.
It takes a long time (about 6 months) for the nail to grow out, but the fungus is gone. However, it does come back and the treatment has to be repeated.” M.W. “I have had fungus and nail bed damage on my right thumb nail (about half way up the nail) for approximately 8 eight years.
If you have no risk of liver problems, you may want to try a prescription medication like Lamisil, which shows some results within three months of daily use. Some people with recurrent toenail fungus opt to have laser toenail treatments done. One study revealed that 85% of the toenails had improved after six months.
Simply mix one cup of vinegar in two cups of water and soak the troublesome area for fifteen minutes a day until the fungus has retreated. How long does it take to cure a toenail fungus using this method? Like tea tree oil, this cure can take upwards of two weeks, depending on how developed the fungus is.
The answer varies from person to person because it depends upon how long it takes for your toenail to grow out. Discovery Health says it can take “a year to a year-and-a-half to grow from cuticle to tip.” As long as your old infected nail is there, you will still have toenail fungus. No matter which course of treatment you choose, you will still have to wait for this process to happen.
http://www.NastyToenailFungus.com-Click for an *extra-strength* toenail fungus treatment called ZetaClear that works in 6-10 weeks. It is very embarrassing and not to mention uncomfortable to have toe nail fungus.