Star networks are one of the most common computer network topologies. In its simplest form, a star network consists of one central switch, hub or computer, which acts as a conduit to transmit messages.
Alternatively referred to as a star network, star topology is one of the most common network setups. In this arrangement, every node connects to a central hub, switch or computer; the hub acting as a server and the peripheral devices as clients.
)A local-area network (LAN) that uses a star topology in which all nodes are connected to a central computer. The main advantages of a star network is that one malfunctioning node doesn't affect the rest of the network, and it's easy to add and remove nodes.
In star topology, each computer is connected to a central hub using a point-to-point connection. The central hub can be a computer server that manages the network, or it can be a much simpler device that only makes the connections between computers over the network possible.
A star network is a local area network (LAN) in which all node s (workstations or other devices) are directly connected to a common central computer. Every workstation is indirectly connected to every other through the central computer. In some star networks, the central computer can also operate as a workstation.
Star Topology. Star Topology is the most common type of network topology that is used in homes and offices. In the Star Topology there is a central connection point called the hub which is a computer hub or sometimes just a switch.
A nother important topology is the star bus topology. The star topology is so called because each computer (or other network device) connects to a central hub, with the cable forming the shape of a star. The star bus has become the most popular topology for local area networks, and it is often combined with the linear bus in large networks.
In Star topology, all the components of network are connected to the central device called “hub” which may be a hub, a router or a switch. Unlike Bus topology (discussed earlier), where nodes were connected to central cable, here all the workstations are connected to central device with a point-to-point connection.