Individual codons code for specific amino acids. A gene is a sequence of nucleotides along a DNA strand-with 'start' and 'stop' codons and other regulatory elements-that specifies a sequence of amino acids that are linked together to form a protein. 
Genes are small sections of DNA within the genome that code for proteins. They contain the instructions for our individual characteristics – like eye and hair colour. 1  A gene is a small section of DNA that contains the instructions for a specific molecule, usually a protein. 1 A gene is a small section of DNA that contains the instructions for a specific molecule, usually a protein. 2  The purpose of genes is to store information. 3  Each gene contains the information required to build specific proteins needed in an organism.
DNA is referred to as The Code Of Life because it tells your cells to do their jobs, and what their jobs are. Your cells make up your organs, and organ systems. The code is … very specific, A goes with T, T with A. G goes with C, Cwith G. RNA tells your cells what proteins to make. It's the extra step your cells do. DNA polymerases, like most enzymes, are proteins, and the code for their primary structure (their amino acid sequences) is included in the genome.       Yes, DNA does code for DNA polymerase.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Genes are the code for forming proteins. DNA is formed by nucleotides (adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine). Every 3 of these bases (along the whole DNA strand), codify for a aminoacid, and several aminoacids form proteins. Several proteins determine a feature. Genes are small sections of DNA which contain genetic information that is needed for protein. The DNA that straightens up gets unzipped and the messenger RNA gets the code tha … t is needed.
DNA codes for amino acids. DNA's base sequence is first transcribed by mRNA (condons). The codons are then Translated into anticodons via tRNA. The anticodons will be similar to the original triplet DNA except obviously, Thymine is replaced by Uracil. DNA polymerases, like most enzymes, are proteins, and the code for their primary structure (their amino acid sequences) is included in the genome.       Yes, DNA does code for DNA polymerase.
The sequence of bases on DNA codes for the sequence of amino acids in proteins. But there are 20 different amino acids and only 4 different bases, so the bases are read in groups of 3. This gives 64 combinations, more than enough to code for 20 amino acids. 
The sequence of bases in DNA operates as a true code in that it contains the information necessary to build a protein expressed in a four-letter alphabet of bases which is transcribed to mRNA and then translated to the twenty-amino-acid alphabet necessary to build the protein. More specifically, the sequence of bases bonded to the sugar phosphate backbone of the double helix contains information in the form of three-base codons that specify the sequence of amino acids to be used in the construction of proteins.
Superimpose code. The genetic code by which DNA stores the genetic information consists of codons of three nucleotides. The functional segments of DNA which code for the transfer of genetic information are called genes. With four possible bases, the three nucleotides can give 4 3 = 64 different possibilities, and these combinations are used to specify the 20 different amino acids used by living organisms. More specifically, the sequence of bases bonded to the sugar phosphate backbone of the double helix contains information in the form of three-base codons that specify the sequence of amino acids to be used in the construction of proteins.
Report Abuse. for every sequence of a codon (3 row of DNA) eg. A-C-G it would code for a corresponding amino acid, each codon codes for a different amino acid once the amino acid is chained together it forms what is called as a protein, and then this protein can be used in or outside the cell. ithinkmyspacebarbroke · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 0