Vena contracta is the narrowest region of a jet that occurs just below the orifice of a regurgitant valve as assessed by colour flow mapping during echocardiography. Even though the measurement of the vena contracta is less dependant on technical factors, small errors in measurement can by multiplied due to the relatively small values of the vena contracta width. Measurement of vena contracta is useful in assessing the severity of mitral regurgitation and aortic regurgitation.
The ratio of the area of the jet, at vena-contracta, to the area of the orifice is known as coefficient of contraction. Mathematically coefficient of contraction, The value of Coefficient of contraction varies slightly with the available head of the liquid, size and shape of the orifice. The average value of is 0.64. The theoretical velocity of jet at vena-contracta is given by the relation, , where h is the head of water at vena-contracta. Mathematically coefficient of velocity, The difference between the velocities is due to friction
Definition of VENA CONTRACTA. : any of the contracted parts of minimum cross section of a jet of fluid discharging from an orifice; especially: the one nearest the orifice. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, contracted vein
Measurement of the vena contracta is useful in echocardiography, where it describes the smallest area of the blood flow jet as it exits a heart valve. This corresponds to the Effective Orifice Area calculated for heart valves using the continuity equation. The effect is also observed in flow from a tank into a pipe, or a sudden contraction in pipe diameter. Streamlines will converge just downstream of the diameter change, and a region of separated flow occurs from the sharp corner of the diameter change and extends past the vena contracta.
VENA CONTRACTA-The place along the axis of flow, just below the orifice, when the jet stream contracts to its minimum. For the term vena contracta may also exist other definitions and meanings, the meaning and definition indicated above are indicative not be used for medical and legal or special purposes. Vena Contracta. The following texts are the property of their respective authors and we thank them for giving us the opportunity to share for free to students, teachers and users of the Web their texts will used only for illustrative educational and scientific purposes only.
1 The narrowest central flow region of a jet is defined as the vena contracta. 2  This term is applied also to the contracted zone of the Doppler color flow image of a jet at its passage through an incompetent mitral valve. It is slightly smaller than the anatomic regurgitant orifice due to boundary effects. The cross-sectional area of the vena contracta represents a measure of the effective regurgitant orifice area, which is the narrowest area of actual flow. The size is independent of flow rate and driving pressure for a fixed orifice.
It is the ratio between the area of the jet at the vena contracta to the area of the orifice. C c = Area at vena contracta/ Area of orifice. The typical value may be taken as 0.64 for a sharp orifice (concentric with the flow channel). The smaller the value, the more effect the vena contracta has. The effect is also observed in flow from a tank into a pipe, or a sudden contraction in pipe diameter. Streamlines will converge just downstream of the diameter change, and a region of separated flow occurs from the sharp corner of the diameter change and extends past the vena contracta.
Vena contracta is the point in a fluid stream where the diameter of the stream is the least, and fluid velocity is at its maximum, such as in the case of a stream issuing out of a nozzle, (orifice). (Evangelista Torricelli, 1643). The effect is also observed in flow from a tank into a pipe, or a sudden contraction in pipe diameter. Streamlines will converge just downstream of the diameter change, and a region of separated flow occurs from the sharp corner of the diameter change and extends past the vena contracta.
Vena contracta is smaller than the regurgitant orifice and is characterized by high velocity, laminar flow. Even though the measurement of the vena contracta is less dependant on technical factors, small errors in measurement can by multiplied due to the relatively small values of the vena contracta width. Measurement of vena contracta is useful in assessing the severity of mitral regurgitation and aortic regurgitation.