Simple sugars are a basic form of carbohydrate. 'Simple' refers to the sugar molecules structural formation. Simple sugars belong to one of two categories: monosaccharides and disaccharides. Saccharides are a group of carbohydrates which include starches and sugars. Examples of monosaccharides include: 1  ribose. 2  glucose. 3  fructose. 4  galactos
Its synthetic mirror image, L-ribose, is not found in nature. -Ribose was first reported in 1891 by Emil Fischer. It is a C'-2 carbon epimer of the sugar. - arabinose (both isomers of which are named for their source, gum arabic) and ribose itself is named as a transposition of the name of arabinose. Like many monosaccharides, ribose exists in an equilibrium among 5 forms—the linear form H−(C=O)−(CHOH) 4 –H and either of the two ring forms: alpha-or beta-ribofuranose (C3'-endo), with a five-membered ring, and alpha-or beta-ribopyranose (C2'-endo), with a six-membered ring.
Nucleotides are the building blocks of nucleic acids, the information carrying macromolecules of the cell. The two types of nucleic acids are ribonucleic acid, called RNA, and deoxyribonucleic acid, called DNA. Nucleotides consist of three parts (see Figure, p. 87- p. 85, 3E): 1) a sugar (either ribose (in RNA only) or 2-deoxyribose (in DNA only)). 2) a nitrogen base (a purine or pyrimidine ring) attached to the sugar 1' carbon. 3) a phosphate group or groups, usually attached to the sugar 5' carbon. 
Deoxyribose, or more precisely 2-deoxyribose, is a monosaccharide with idealized formula H−(C=O)−(CH 2)−(CHOH) 3 −H. Its name indicates that it is a deoxy sugar, meaning that it is derived from the sugar ribose by loss of an oxygen atom. 
Ribose and Deoxyribose. The 5-carbon sugars ribose and deoxyribose are important components of nucleotides, and are found in RNA and DNA, respectively. The sugars found in nucleic acids are pentose sugars; a pentose sugar has five carbon atoms. A combination of a base and a sugar is called a nucleoside. Ribose, found in RNA, is a normal sugar, with one oxygen atom attached to each carbon atom. Deoxyribose, found in DNA, is a modified sugar, lacking one oxygen atom (hence the name deoxy). Notice the difference between ribose and deoxyribose in the figure above. In ribose, carbon atom #2 carries one hydroxyl group (colored red). In deoxyribose, carbon atom #2 carries a hyrogen atom instead of a hydroxyl group.
The 5-carbon sugars ribose and deoxyribose are important components of nucleotides, and are found in RNA and DNA, respectively. The sugars found in nucleic acids are pentose sugars; a pentose sugar has five carbon atoms. Notice the difference between ribose and deoxyribose in the figure above. In ribose, carbon atom #2 carries one hydroxyl group (colored red). In deoxyribose, carbon atom #2 carries a hyrogen atom instead of a hydroxyl group.
According to the New World Encyclopedia: Ribose, primarily seen as D-ribose, is a water-soluable, pentose sugar (monosaccharide with five carbon atoms) that is an important component of nucleic acids, nucleotides, the vitamin riboflavin, and various co-enzymes. Ribose has the chemical formula C5H10O5. 
However sugar is a 'loose term' and refers to a collection of different types of carbohydrates-not just white refined sugar so prevalent in the western diet. There are two main categories of sugar: simple and complex. 'Simple' refers to the sugar molecules structural formation. Simple sugars belong to one of two categories: monosaccharides and disaccharides. Saccharides are a group of carbohydrates which include starches and sugars. Examples of monosaccharides include: 1  ribose. 2  glucose. 3  fructose.
Deoxyribose versus Ribose sugars. Ribose is a single-ring pentose [5-Carbon] sugar. The numbering of the carbon atoms runs clockwise, following organic chemistry rules. Note the absence of the hydroxyl (-OH) group on the 2’ carbon in the deoxy-ribose sugar in DNA as compared with the ribose sugar in RNA. All text material © 2014 by Steven M. Carr.
Ribose is an organic compound with the formula C 5 H 10 O 5; specifically, a pentose monosaccharide (simple sugar) with linear form H−(C=O)−(CHOH) 4 −H, which has all the hydroxyl groups on the same side in the Fischer projection. The term may refer to either of two enantiomers. Like many monosaccharides, ribose exists in an equilibrium among 5 forms—the linear form H−(C=O)−(CHOH) 4 –H and either of the two ring forms: alpha-or beta-ribofuranose (C3'-endo), with a five-membered ring, and alpha-or beta-ribopyranose (C2'-endo), with a six-membered ring.