USES: This medication is used to treat  cold sores / fever blisters  (herpes labialis). It can speed up healing of the sores and decrease symptoms (such as tingling, pain, burning, itching). Acyclovir belongs to a class of medications known as antivirals.
Clotrimazole is used to treat yeast infections of the vagina, mouth, and skin such as athlete's foot, jock itch, and body ringworm. It can also be used to prevent oral thrush in certain patients. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information.
Composit uses/ indication of Candid-B : Psoriasis, eczema, Uchensimplex, lichen planus, anal and vulval pruritus, seborrhoeic dermatlts, contact dermatits, otitis externa. Fungal infection of external ear and Susceptible fungal infections including oropharyngeal, candidiasis, dermatophytosis, superficial mycosis.
Before and after applying the cream or lotion, wash your hands properly, unless you are using it to treat a hand infection. Clean and dry the affected area. Apply a small amount of cream (normally twice daily) for 2 to 4 weeks. Do not take Clotrimazole medication by mouth.
Clotrimazole cream, lotion, and solution are for external use only. Do not let clotrimazole get into your eyes. Do not swallow the topical cream, lotion, or solution. Do not swallow the vaginal tablets or vaginal cream. If you have a vaginal infection, refrain from sexual intercourse.
Use clotrimazole exactly as directed. Do not use more or less of it or use it more often than prescribed by your doctor. To use the topical cream, lotion, or solution, thoroughly clean the infected area, allow it to dry, and then gently rub the medication in until most of it disappears. Use just enough medication to cover the affected area.
How to use Cortane-B lotion: Use Cortane-B lotion as directed by your doctor. Check the label on the medicine for exact dosing instructions. 1  For external use only. 2  Do not get Cortane-B lotion in the eyes, nose, or mouth. 3  If you get Cortane-B lotion in the eyes, flush thoroughly with cool water. 4  Thoroughly clean and dry the affected areas before using Cortane-B lotion.