General Burgoyne surrenders to General Gates. Place: Saratoga on the Hudson River in New York State. Combatants: British and German troops against the Americans. Generals: Major General John Burgoyne commanded the British and German force. Major General Horatio Gates and Brigadier Benedict Arnold commanded the American army. Major General Horatio Gates, the American commander at the Battle of Saratoga. Size of the armies: The British force comprised some 5,000 British, Brunswickers, Canadians and Indians. By the time of the surrender the American force was around 12,000 to 14,000 militia and troops.
The first battle, on September 19, began when Burgoyne moved some of his troops in an attempt to flank the entrenched American position on Bemis Heights. Benedict Arnold, anticipating the maneuver, placed significant forces in his way. British General John Burgoyne led a large invasion army up the Champlain Valley from Canada, hoping to meet a similar force marching northward from New York City; the southern force never arrived, and Burgoyne was surrounded by American forces in upstate New York.
The battle of Saratoga may also be called the battle-s of Saratoga, since it refers to two engagements (Freeman's Farm on Sept. 19, and Bemis Heights on October 7). At the s … ame time the British Philadelphia campaign of 1777-78 was also going on. The Battle of Antietam took place near the Antietam Creek, near  Sharpsburg, Maryland. This was the first time Confede … rate General  Lee took his forces into Union territory. Maryland was a slave  State that remained in the Union.
Battle of Saratoga. In late September and during the first week of October 1777, Gate's American army was positioned between Burgoyne's army and Albany. On October 7, Burgoyne took the offensive. The troops crashed together south of the town of Saratoga, and Burgoyne's army was broken. In mop-up operations 86 percent of Burgoyne's command was captured.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Battle of Bennington was a battle of the American Revolutionary War, part of the Saratoga campaign, that took place on August 16, 1777, in Walloomsac, New York, about 10 miles (16 km) from its namesake Bennington, Vermont. 
Battle #1. Burgoyne again began his advance south, but was stopped about 10 miles below Saratoga. The first battle of Saratoga, the Battle of Freeman's Farm, took place on September 19, 1777. A militia of sharpshooters from Virginia harassed the British, while other colonist forces aggressively charged into battle with them. Burgoyne lost two men for every one on the American side. The Battle of Saratoga, comprising two significant battles during September and October of 1777, was a crucial victory for the Patriots during the American Revolution and is considered the turning point of the Revolutionary War.
The Battle of Bemis Heights was the second battle of Saratoga, taking place October 7th when Burgoyne desperately attacked rebel defenses with his tired, demoralized army. At Bemis Heights, Gate's defensive tactics insured a tactical victory for the Patriots. At the Battle of Freeman's Farm, the new commander of the Northern Department of the American army, General Horatio Gates, lost an indecisive battle. During this First Battle of Saratoga, fought 19 September 1777, the American forces lost ground to the British forces under General Burgoyne.
The Second Battle of Saratoga was also called the Second Battle of Freeman's Farm or the Battle of Bemis Heights. The Second Battle of Saratoga was part of the Saratoga Campaign, which in turn was part of the American Revolution. This link here takes you to the First Battle of Saratoga. 
This battle took place near Sharpsburg, Maryland.   The Battle of Antietam took place near the Antietam Creek, near  Sharpsburg, Maryland. This was the first time Confede … rate General  Lee took his forces into Union territory. Maryland was a slave  State that remained in the Union.
by Pamela Kline and Paul Pavao. Known as the turning point of the Revolutionary War, the Battle of Saratoga was fought on September 19th and October 7th in 1777. Its two battles are also known as the Battle of Freeman's Farm and the Battle of Bemis Heights, from where they took place, in upstate New York near Saratoga. 