Post offered these guidelines: • Tip every day to ensure your tip gets to the person who actually cleaned your room. • Leave a note in your room with the money indicating it is for housekeeping. • Tip $1 or $2 per person, per night in most hotels. In higher end hotels, $3 to $5 per person per night is typical. • In a motel, tips are generally not necessary for a one-night stay. The $1 or $2 standard is appropriate for multiday stays.
American Hotels. The amount you tip housekeeping at an American hotel should be between $2 to $5 per night. A $2 to $3 tip is more common for a moderate hotel or smaller room, while $5 is acceptable for luxury accommodations. International Locations. When staying at an international hotel, it is important to tip the hotel housekeeper in accordance with local policy. For example, the Luxist website notes that tipping a maid in Europe or Japan is not common practice, while a maid in Mexico may greatly appreciate your gesture.
1 Leave your tip in an obvious place. 2  On the television, on a pillow, or on the bathroom counter are all common places to leave the maid's tip. 3  Tip according to service and hotel type. 4  In a luxury hotel, tip about $3-5 each night. 5  For an average hotel, $1-2 per night is fine. Hotel maids, although often providing invisible services during your stay, can and should be tipped for good service. Tip correctly, and you show your appreciation and ensure the chambermaid will take special care with your room. Tip incorrectly, and misunderstandings can arise. Here's how to tip a hotel maid.
Comparable to hotel housekeeping, you should tip motel housekeeping attendants $1 to $3 per night for cleaning. If you're not able to hand the money to the housekeeper, leave the tip on the pillow so that the housekeeper knows that the money is left for this purpose. Avoid leaving tips on nightstands or tables. 
Room Service: 15 - 20 percent of the bill (not required if gratuity is included). Housekeeping : $2 - $5 per night (the messier you are, the higher the tip). Coat Check : $1 - $2. More Tipping Tips. Tip your housekeeper for each night instead of giving one large tip at the end of your stay. Keep in mind that when you're tipping a service person at your hotel, you're essentially paying a part of that person's salary. If you forget to tip a housekeeper, concierge or bellhop (or anyone else who deserves a tip) and have already left the hotel, call the concierge and explain your situation.
The American Hotel & Lodging Association, the hotel industry group, suggests leaving housekeepers a tip of $1 to $5 per day, every day, not just at the end of the stay. This is because different housekeepers might be cleaning the room on different days during the guest's stay. The tip should be placed in an envelope. When you're staying at a hotel, tip your housekeeper! That's the message from Marriott International (MAR) . It is placing envelopes in more than 160,000 rooms in the United States and Canada to encourage tipping the people who clean guest rooms.
Timeshares often do not have nightly maid service requiring a daily tipping rate, notes the Timeshare Authority website. Guests staying in a timeshare hotel may choose not to tip housekeeping if the service is not offered daily, as it is often included in the timeshare rental rate. International Locations. When staying at an international hotel, it is important to tip the hotel housekeeper in accordance with local policy. For example, the Luxist website notes that tipping a maid in Europe or Japan is not common practice, while a maid in Mexico may greatly appreciate your gesture.
1 Tip according to service and hotel type. 2  In a luxury hotel, tip about $3-5 each night. 3  For an average hotel, $1-2 per night is fine. 4  If the maid goes above and beyond in service, such as providing extra soaps and shampoos or folding towels in the shape of swans (for example), feel free to leave a dollar or two more. Hotel maids, although often providing invisible services during your stay, can and should be tipped for good service. Tip correctly, and you show your appreciation and ensure the chambermaid will take special care with your room. Tip incorrectly, and misunderstandings can arise. Here's how to tip a hotel maid.