Garba is usually performed in a circle around a big lamp or the statue of Goddess Shakti. Garba is often confused with Dandiya, which is another dance form of Gujarat performed during Navratri, but originated in Vrindavan. Garba is performed in a ring form with circular movements that is quite similar to the Sufi dancers, who too move in a spiral. The Garba Attire. While the dancers perform in colorful costumes to the rhythm of a dhol or a drum, the men and women look vibrant and full of life in their attires.
Origin. Garba is the popular dance from Gujarat and is being performed not only all over India but all over the world by the Gujaratis. Garba is an Indian form which has originated in the Gujarat region. It is more similar to the classical Indian dances such as Bharatanatyam and Odissi. Navratri Garba is the most colorful form of dance in India. The performers of Garba dance are both men and women, who would clad themselves in colorful and magnetically attractive traditional attire. The most chosen attire for the dance is sari for women worn in the typical Gujarati style
Garba is a dance that originated in the Gujarat region of India. It is performed usually by Indian women and is considered a popular folk dance in the said region. The word “garba” has Sanskrit roots and it means womb and/or small lamp. The traditional way of dancing the garba involves women dancing in circular or spiral patterns. It is also common to see a lighted lamp in the center while the dancers are performing
Garba is a dance form originated in Gujarat, performed during Navratri – a 9-day festival of Goddess Durga. It is also known as Garbi, Garbha or Garbha Deep. In ‘Garbha Deep’, the word ‘Garbha’ is a Sanskrit term, which means womb and ‘ Deep’ means little earthen lamps. Garba is performed in a ring form with circular movements that is quite similar to the Sufi dancers, who too move in a spiral. The Garba Attire. While the dancers perform in colorful costumes to the rhythm of a dhol or a drum, the men and women look vibrant and full of life in their attires.
Garba (ગરબા in Gujarati) is a form of dance that originated in the state of Gujarat in India. The name is derived from the Sanskrit term Garbha (womb) and Deep (a small earthenware lamp). Many traditional garbas are performed around a centrally lit lamp or a picture or statue of the Goddess Shakti. The circular and spiral figures of Garba have similarities to other spiritual dances, such as those of Sufi culture. Traditionally, it is performed during the nine-day Hindu festival Navarātrī (Gujarati નવરાત્રી Nava = 9, rātrī = nights).
Garba or Dandiya, are dance forms which were earlier only performed in Gujarat, but have now become very popular across the country. The lively and colourful dance forms' popularity is such that Garba festivals are organised in almost every corner of the country today to grace the occasion of Navratri. 
Traditional garba involves clapping and singing to the rhythmic tunes of Indian music. The leader of the Garba dance is usually in-charge of singing the first part of the song, while the rest of the female dancers will song along during the chorus. It is performed usually by Indian women and is considered a popular folk dance in the said region. The word “garba” has Sanskrit roots and it means womb and/or small lamp.
The word Garba comes from the Sanskrit word for womb and so implies gestation or pregnancy-life. Traditionally, the dance is performed around a clay lantern with a light inside, called a Garbha Deep. This lantern represents life; the fetus in the womb in particular. The circular and spiral figures of Garba have similarities to other spiritual dances, such as those of Sufi culture. Traditionally, it is performed during the nine-day Hindu festival Navarātrī (Gujarati નવરાત્રી Nava = 9, rātrī = nights).