How to Do a Gymnastics Workout Without Equipment. A young male gymnast on the pommel horse. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Gymnastics puts such an incredible demand on the body, it's important to plan your workouts in accordance with your gymnastic goals. Step 3. Arrange yourself into table position, with your hands and feet on the ground and your pelvis toward the ceiling. Squeeze your butt to get your pelvis as high as you can, then bend your elbows until they are bent at a 90-degree angle and push back up.
1 Pull-Ups: Another great exercise for improving your gymnastics skills at home is pull-ups. 2  You can practice your pull-ups at home by installing a pull-up bar in one of your doorways. 3  A pull-up bar (here is a great one from Amazon for less than $30) is a great piece of home gymnastics equipment. 1 The better you can do splits on the ground, the better you can do them in the air. 2  Pull-Ups: Another great exercise for improving your gymnastics skills at home is pull-ups. 3  You can practice your pull-ups at home by installing a pull-up bar in one of your doorways.
1 Push-ups, Sit-ups, calf-raises are all great exercises to increase your muscles strength. 2  Your Routine: If you have a gymnastics routine, you can practice it at home without the tumbling skills. 3  This is called a “dance-through”, when you do the routine practicing just the dance elements. 1 The better you can do splits on the ground, the better you can do them in the air. 2  Pull-Ups: Another great exercise for improving your gymnastics skills at home is pull-ups. 3  You can practice your pull-ups at home by installing a pull-up bar in one of your doorways.
1 Your Routine: If you have a gymnastics routine, you can practice it at home without the tumbling skills. 2  This is called a “dance-through”, when you do the routine practicing just the dance elements. 3  The more you practice your routine, the less likely you are to forget it at a meet. 1 The better you can do splits on the ground, the better you can do them in the air. 2  Pull-Ups: Another great exercise for improving your gymnastics skills at home is pull-ups. 3  You can practice your pull-ups at home by installing a pull-up bar in one of your doorways.
Step 3. Warm up with a light form of cardio exercise, such as a jog or brisk walk to warm your muscles. Once your connective tissue is loose, there is less of a chance of injuring your muscles as you begin your gymnastics routine. Step 4. Build your strength at home, without the use of weight machines. Stretch your upper body before challenging your arms in a handstand or flip. In addition to your muscles, stretch your joints at your wrists, ankles and feet to help prevent strains. Step 6. Perform basic gymnastic skills, such as forward and backward rolls, back bends, handstands and cartwheels. Before attempting these moves for the first time, seek instruction from a trainer at your local gym. At home, you can use video instruction or training manuals to help correct your technique
Gymnastics is a sport that requires strength, flexibility and focus. Some exercises also demand sports equipment, but many gymnastics moves can be done at home without the cost or hassle of going to the gym. Stretch your upper body before challenging your arms in a handstand or flip. In addition to your muscles, stretch your joints at your wrists, ankles and feet to help prevent strains. Step 6. Perform basic gymnastic skills, such as forward and backward rolls, back bends, handstands and cartwheels. Before attempting these moves for the first time, seek instruction from a trainer at your local gym. At home, you can use video instruction or training manuals to help correct your technique
1 Gymnastics is one of the few sports that uses most of the muscles in your body. 2  Push-ups, Sit-ups, calf-raises are all great exercises to increase your muscles strength. 3  Your Routine: If you have a gymnastics routine, you can practice it at home without the tumbling skills. 1 The better you can do splits on the ground, the better you can do them in the air. 2  Pull-Ups: Another great exercise for improving your gymnastics skills at home is pull-ups. 3  You can practice your pull-ups at home by installing a pull-up bar in one of your doorways.
Best Answer: First of all, gymnastics, in general, is about more than just handstands and back flips. To truly learn gymnastics, you would first have to buy gymnastics equipment for your home, and most gymnastics equipment, (such as a balance beam), can cost over $100 each. 