At the end of the defects liability period, the contract administrator prepares a schedule of defects, listing those defects that have not yet been rectified, and agrees with the contractor the date by which they will be rectified. The contractor must in any event rectify defects within a reasonable time. It is important to note that the defects liability period is not a chance to correct problems apparent at practical completion, it is a period during which the contractor may be recalled to rectify defects which appear.
The defects liability period usually does not include an obligation to repair defects which occur as a result of fair wear and tear. However, for the avoidance of doubt it is prudent, from a contractor's perspective, to expressly specify this in the defects liability period clause. For example, an employer can sue the contractor for damages for defects which appear during or after the defects liability period, though its damages may be limited if the employer has acted unreasonably to the cost of the contractor performing the remedial works.
Defects Liability Period Definition. Defects Liability Period: the period commencing on the date that the Sub-Contract Works have achieved Practical Completion and expiring on the date twelve (12) months after the date of practical completion of the Works as certified by the Employer's Agent under the Contract. Defects Liability Period. A period of usually twelve months following practical completion, during which the employer can require the contractor to return to the site to complete any omissions in the works and to make good any defective work or materials.
The defects liability period is the period of time within which the contractor is contractually obliged to return to the construction site to repair defects which have appeared in the contractor's works. 2. The extent of a contractor’s legal liability for defects 2.1 The end of the defects liability period is not, however, the end of the contractor's liability to their client for defects.
Typically, a defects liability period (DLP) is either 12 or 24 months from the date of practical completion. In some construction contracts, where a particular defect has been rectified within the DLP, a new DLP for that item will start from the time of the repair and continue for the same period as the original DLP.
Defects liability period DLP. The defects liability period (now called the ' rectification period ' in Joint Contracts Tribunal (JCT) contracts) begins upon certification of practical completion and typically lasts six to twelve months. It is important to note that the defects liability period is not a chance to correct problems apparent at practical completion, it is a period during which the contractor may be recalled to rectify defects which appear.
Construction contracts usually include a defects liability period during which the contractor is responsible for repairing or rectifying defects that appear in the works. For example, an employer can sue the contractor for damages for defects which appear during or after the defects liability period, though its damages may be limited if the employer has acted unreasonably to the cost of the contractor performing the remedial works.
The defects liability security is kept to cover any repairs or defects found in the infrastructure built by the contractor. If a defect in the infrastructure is detected during the defects liability period, the contractor is notified and given the opportunity to repair the defect. If the contractor is unable or unwilling to repair the defect, the purchaser has the right to use the funds retained for such purposes from the contractor. 
A defects liability period is a set period of time after a construction project has been completed during which a contractor has the right to return to the site to remedy defects. A typical defects liability period lasts for 12 months. 