Louella is a very popular first name for women (#990 out of 4276, Top 23%) but a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Louella for girls. Louella reached its highest rank of #274 in the U.S. then, but is not in the list at the moment. Louella is a variant transcription of Lou: short variation of Louann. Louella is also a variant of Louise (Old German). Louella is also used as a variant of Luella (Old English, Old German). Kreatif forms: Liala, Louellia, Louelna.
Meaning of Louella. French name. In French, the name Louella means-renowned fighter feminine of louis. Other origins for the name Louella include-French, English.The name Louella is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-renowned fighter feminine of louis
Luella /luel-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Old English and Old German origin, and the meaning of Luella is famous warrior; other, foreign. Blend of Louise and Ella. Can also possibly be traced back to Lucy. Columnist Louella Parsons. Luella is a very popular first name for women (#670 out of 4276, Top 16%) but a rare last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Luella for girls. Luella reached its apex position of #155 in the U.S. then, but is not in the list currently.
English Meaning: The name Louella is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Louella is: Famous elf. Also a compound of the names Lou and Ella. American Meaning: The name Louella is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Louella is: Famous elf. Also a compound of the names Lou and Ella.
French Meaning: The name Louella is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Louella is: Famous warrior. Renowned fighter. Latin Meaning: The name Louella is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Louella is: Make amends. American Meaning: The name Louella is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Louella is: Famous elf. Also a compound of the names Lou and Ella.
Louella is a derivative of the Dutch, English, French, and German Louise. A derivative of the name is the English Lewella. Louella is an uncommon baby girl name. In 1900, 0.035% of baby girls were given the name Louella. [ 3 syll. lo-uel-la, lou-e- lla ] The baby girl name Louella is pronounced Luw-W EH L-aa- †. Louella's language of origin is English and Germanic. It is predominantly used in the English language
Louella /louel-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Old German and Old English derivation, and the name Louella means famous warrior; other, foreign. Louella is a variant transcription of Lou: short variation of Louann. Louella is also a variant of Louise (Old German). Louella is also used as a variant of Luella (Old English, Old German). Kreatif forms: Liala, Louellia, Louelna.
Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Louella Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Louella has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Louella to other names. Variants of the name Louella include Lewella, Luella. The name Luella is a form of Louella
English Meaning: The name Luella is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Luella is: Famous elf. Also a compound of the names Lou and Ella. American Meaning: The name Luella is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Luella is: Famous elf. Also a compound of the names Lou and Ella. Latin Meaning: The name Luella is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Luella is: Make amends. Spanish Meaning: The name Luella is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Luella is: Feminine of Louis.