The least expensive type of divorce that can be completed in Maryland concern couples who file a joint petition for an uncontested separation where no children are involved. While the filing fee for each county will vary, the same kinds of expenses must be considered regardless of where you are in the state. When trying to figure out how much does a divorce cost in Maryland, here are a few constants to keep in mind. To prepare a joint petition for an uncontested separation, you and your spouse must create a written agreement that can be submitted to the court for approval. • Due to their age, illness or disability, the person seeking alimony cannot becomes self-sustaining. • The gap between the two parties’ standard of living would be inequitable. A judge has the final authority in determining how much does a divorce cost in Maryland.
Maryland Divorce Courts. In order to file for a divorce in Maryland you must meet certain filing requirements for the court to have jurisdiction. The requirements to file in a particular Maryland court will often pertain to the residency of the filing spouse, non-filing spouse, and/or the children. 
Some couples may decide they could benefit from the services of a lawyer who specializes in divorce mediation. While this will add to your estimate of how much does a divorce cost in Maryland, it may help prevent even more defenses in the courtroom later. • Due to their age, illness or disability, the person seeking alimony cannot becomes self-sustaining. • The gap between the two parties’ standard of living would be inequitable. A judge has the final authority in determining how much does a divorce cost in Maryland.
With a “limited divorce,” couples are still legally married, but petition the court for decisions regarding property settlements, alimony, child support and custody. To file for a limited divorce in Maryland, you must be a resident of the state at the time of filing. If the grounds for the divorce occurred in another state, Maryland requires a residency period of at least one year before filing. 
After you file your papers, your spouse has 30 days (if your spouse lives in Maryland), 60 days (if your spouse lives outside of Maryland, but in the United States), or 90 days (if your spouse lives outside the United States) to respond to your request for divorce (known as a Complaint. In order to prove the grounds for a limited divorce, you must go through the same processes of proof as you would in a case for an absolute divorce. The courts give the same serious weight to limited divorces as they do to absolute divorces. Source: How To Do Your Own Divorce in Maryland by Richard S. Granat (2011)
To file for a divorce in Maryland, one of the spouses must have lived in Maryland for a least a year if the grounds for divorce happened outside of Maryland. Otherwise, either spouse may file. If insanity is the ground, the residency requirement is two years. 
Maryland Divorce Filing Fees. The court filing fees for a divorce in Maryland is approximately $105. If your spouse won't sign and must be served, then the sheriff may charge a fee of approximately $25 to serve your spouse. Note: If the whereabouts of your spouse is unknown, then a publication fee will apply. 100% Legal - 100% Guaranteed. Information for filing a Divorce in Maryland. We understand that filing for a divorce is an extremely important time in your life. We have completed divorces for customers though out the state of Maryland, and want to help make the process as simple as possible for you.