musculoskeletal system, all of the muscles, bones, joints, and related structures, such as the tendons and connective tissue, that function in the movement of body parts and organs. See also the Color Atlas of Human Anatomy. 
The musculoskeletal system is the combination of the muscular and skeletal systems working together and includes the bones, muscles, tendons and ligaments of the body. 
(Also Called 'Normal Structure and Function of the Musculoskeletal System-Anatomy'). A basic primer on bones, muscles, tendons, ligaments, nerves, and cartilages. The skeletal system includes the bones of the skeleton and the cartilages, ligaments, and other connective tissue that stabilize or connect the bones. 1 Skeletal muscles — These muscles contract to pull on tendons and move the bones of the skeleton. 2  In addition to producing skeletal movement, muscles also maintain posture and body position, support soft tissues, guard entrances and exits to the digestive and urinary tracts, and maintain body temperature.
This system describes how bones are connected to other bones and muscle fibers via connective tissue such as tendons and ligaments. The bones provide stability to the body. Muscles keep bones in place and also play a role in the movement of bones. The musculoskeletal system refers to the system having its muscles attached to an internal skeletal system and is necessary for humans to move to a more favorable position.
It is made up of the bones of the skeleton, muscles, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, joints, and other connective tissue that supports and binds tissues and organs together. The musculoskeletal system's primary functions include supporting the body, allowing motion, and protecting vital organs. The musculoskeletal system refers to the system having its muscles attached to an internal skeletal system and is necessary for humans to move to a more favorable position.
• MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM (noun). The noun MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM has 1 sense: 1. the system of muscles and tendons and ligaments and bones and joints and associated tissues that move the body and maintain its form. Familiarity information: MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. Meaning: The system of muscles and tendons and ligaments and bones and joints and associated tissues that move the body and maintain its form. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Hypernyms (musculoskeletal system is a kind of...):
musculoskeletal system-the system of muscles and tendons and ligaments and bones and joints and associated tissues that move the body and maintain its form. body, organic structure, physical structure-the entire structure of an organism (an animal, plant, or human being); he felt as if his whole body were on fire. 
musculoskeletal system, all of the muscles, bones, joints, and related structures, such as the tendons and connective tissue, that function in the movement of body parts and organs. See also the Color Atlas of Human Anatomy. 
The human musculoskeletal system (also known as the locomotor system, and previously the activity system) is an organ system that gives humans the ability to move using their muscular and skeletal systems. The musculoskeletal system provides form, support, stability, and movement to the body. The musculoskeletal system refers to the system having its muscles attached to an internal skeletal system and is necessary for humans to move to a more favorable position.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: musculoskeletal system (noun). the system of muscles and tendons and ligaments and bones and joints and associated tissues that move the body and maintain its form. 