Legal name is the name that identifies a person for legal, administrative and other official purposes. A person's legal name typically is the same as their personal name, comprising a given name and a family name. The order varies according to culture and country. There are also country-by-country differences on changes of legal names by marriage
For trade names of other products and services, see brand name. A trade name, trading name, or business name is a pseudonym used by companies to perform their business under a name that differs from the registered, legal name of the business. The distinction between a registered legal name and a fictitious business name or trade name is important, as businesses with the latter give no obvious indication of the true identity of the entity that is legally responsible for their operation.
For the legal name of a business, see legal name (business) . A person's legal name typically is the same as their personal name, comprising a given name and a family name. The order varies according to culture and country. There are also country-by-country differences on changes of legal names by marriage
Name Change Law & Legal Definition. The need for a legal name change may result from marriage, divorce, adoption or simply a desire to have another name. Generally, (a) you cannot change your name for a fraudulent purpose, such as avoiding debts.
Legal name. Legal name is the name that an individual is given at birth and/or recognized by a government or other legal entity, or which appears on a birth certificate, marriage certificate, or other government issued document on which a legal name change is evidenced and recorded. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: legal name (Noun). The name of a natural person recognized on official records, especially as recorded on a birth certificate or as allowed to changed by legal process.
A word or combination of words used to distinguish a person, thing, or class from others. An individual's name is comprised of a name given at birth, known as the given name or first name, selected by the parents, and the surname or last name, which identifies the family to which he or she belongs. 
A. What is the legal name. For SSA enumeration purposes, a legal name consists of a: first name; and. last name (or surname). The legal name is the name used to sign legal documents, deeds, or contracts. Since a person’s middle name(s) or suffix is not considered part of the legal name by SSA, a middle name shown as part of the given name or a suffix shown as part of the family name can be omitted or entered in the middle name and suffix fields of the Enumeration system.
A person's legal name typically comprises their given name and a family name. The order varies according to culture and country. There are also country-by-country differences on changes of legal names by marriage, see married name. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: legal name (Noun). The name of a natural person recognized on official records, especially as recorded on a birth certificate or as allowed to changed by legal process.