(February 2010). Genu valgum, commonly called  knock-knee , is a condition in which the knees angle in and touch one another when the legs are straightened. Individuals with severe valgus deformities are typically unable to touch their feet together while simultaneously straightening the legs. However, the condition may continue or worsen with age, particularly when it is the result of a disease, such as rickets or obesity. Idiopathic genu valgum is a form that is either congenital or has no known cause..
Bow-leg redirects here. For the robotic leg, see Bow Leg. Genu Varum (also called bow-leggedness, bandiness, bandy-leg, and tibia vara), is a physical deformity marked by (outward) bowing of the lower leg in relation to the thigh, giving the appearance of an archer's bow. Usually medial angulation of both femur and tibia is involved. Children until the age of 3 to 4 have a degree of Genu Varum. The child sits with the soles of the feet facing one another; the tibia and femur are curved outwards; and, if the limbs are extended, although the ankles are in contact, there is a distinct space between the knee-joints.
Genu Varum is a common knee disorder causing physical deformity. Get in touch with your doctor for a diagnosis, if you experience the signs and symptoms of GVR. Parents of sufferers are highly recommended not to neglect the disorder and avail early treatment in order to avoid the occurrence of associated complications. Genu Varum (GVR) is a knee disorder which may lead to outward bowing of the legs while standing, giving them the appearance of a bow. Find out all about the condition, including its symptoms, treatment and life expectancy.
Genu varum. Genu varum (Blount's Disease) is a deformity marked by medial angulation of the leg in relation to the thigh, an outward bowing of the legs. It is also known as bandy-leg, bowleg, bow-leg, and tibia vara. Usually there is an outward curvature of both femur and tibia, with at times an interior bend of the latter bone. Find information on thousands of medical conditions and prescription drugs. Genu varum Genu varum (Blount's Disease) is a deformity marked by medial angulation of the leg in relation to the thigh, an outward bowing of the legs. It is also known as bandy-leg, bowleg, bow-leg, and tibia vara.
1 Varus Deformity – Varus deformity (genu varum) causes the knees to bow outward, giving a bow-legged appearance and putting extra pressure on the inner (medial) compartment of the knee joint. 2  People with Varus deformity often cannot touch their knees together when their ankles are together. 1 People with Valgus deformity often cannot touch their ankles together when their knees are together. 2 
genu val´gum a childhood deformity, developing gradually, in which the knees rub together or “knock” in walking and the ankles are far apart; the most common causes are irregularity in growth of the long bones of the lower limb (sometimes from injury to the bone ends at the knee) and weak ligaments. 
Genu Varum. Genu Varum is also known as Bow Leg. It is a deformity wherein there is lateral bowing of the legs at the knee. This is usually due to defective growth of the medial side of the epiphyseal plate. It is commonly seen unilaterally and seen in conditions such as Rickets, Paget's disease and severe degree osteoarthritis of the knee.