Panettone: The Big Bread. Panettone, or big bread, is a holiday tradition in Italy, where it is often given as a gift and brought to share. This sweet bread is enjoyed as a dessert, made up of a dough similar to sourdough, candied oranges, raisins and lemon zest. By Piergiorgio and Amy Nicoletti. Traditionally, panettone is served after the enormous Christmas day feast or on Santo Stefano (that is, December 26th, a national holiday in Italy)—but also on New Year's Eve and New Year’s Day. There is just one caveat: apart from kids, very few have any room left for dessert after these feasts.
The classic panettone weighs about a kilo (that is, 2.2 lbs) and is about 8 inches high. The special dough, similar to sourdough, slowly ferments and rises for at least 12 hours, but the leavening process can last much longer. Traditionally, panettone is served after the enormous Christmas day feast or on Santo Stefano (that is, December 26th, a national holiday in Italy)—but also on New Year's Eve and New Year’s Day. There is just one caveat: apart from kids, very few have any room left for dessert after these feasts.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Panettone is a large cylindrical bread with a domed top that likely originated in Milan, Italy. Though now made and eaten year round in Italy, and imported to many countries around the world including the US, it may have begun as a bread baked during the Christmas season. 
Panettone is a somewhere between a bread and a cake in taste, a sweet yeasted bread that is traditionally served around Christmas in Italy. The dough for panettone is quite rich and contains plenty of butter and eggs. The addition of all the fat to the dough gives it a very fine, tender texture. I’ve even used a bundt pan before! Aside from the butter and eggs, most of the flavor of the panettone comes from the add-ins. The most traditional have dried fruits, candied citrus, lemon and/or orange zest and may be doused with amaretto before serving.
At just about all specialty food stores, as well as a good number of regular supermarkets, you’re going to find elegant boxes of panettone available around the holidays. The boxes are always adorned with illustrations of what’s inside, but an illustration is never as good as actually seeing the product. I’ve even used a bundt pan before! Aside from the butter and eggs, most of the flavor of the panettone comes from the add-ins. The most traditional have dried fruits, candied citrus, lemon and/or orange zest and may be doused with amaretto before serving.
In the early 20th century, two enterprising Milanese bakers began to produce panettone in large quantities in the rest of Italy. In 1919, Angelo Motta started producing his eponymous brand of cakes. In Italy the panettone comes with an often varied history, but one that invariably states that its birthplace is in Milan. The word panettone derives from the Italian word panetto, a small loaf cake.
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Butter and flour an 8-inch round deep cake pan or panettone mold. In a mixer, cream the butter with the eggs and egg yolks until pale yellow, 3 to 4 minutes. Replace the beater with the dough hook attachment, and with the mixer running, add half of the flour. Add half the milk and mix for 1 minute.
It has a cupola shape, which extends from a cylindrical base and is usually about 12–15 cm high for a panettone weighing 1 kg. Other bases may be used, such as an octagon, or a frustum with star section shape more common to pandoro. In Italy the panettone comes with an often varied history, but one that invariably states that its birthplace is in Milan. The word panettone derives from the Italian word panetto, a small loaf cake.