Jared Leto's net worth is $40 million. After a five years hiatus from filming, Leto returned to act in the drama Dallas Buyers Club (2013), directed by Jean-Marc Vallee vallée and-co Starring McConaughey. mcconaughey
$40 Million. Jared Leto net worth and salary: Jared Leto is an American actor and musician who has a net worth of $40 million. An incredibly intense actor, Jared Leto has made performances in both big-budget Hollywood movies and smaller projects from independent producers and art houses.
Jared Leto is an American musician and actor with a net worth of $40 million.
Jared Leto net worth: $40 Million. Jared Leto net worth and salary: Jared Leto is an American actor and musician who has a net worth of $40 million. An incredibly intense actor, Jared Leto has made performances in both big-budget Hollywood movies and smaller projects from independent producers and art houses.
Recently, Jared released a pictorial book of his photos to aid earthquake shattered Haiti. These endeavor added charisma to Jared Leto net worth. Leto was in a four year long relationship with actress Cameron Diaz, but broke up in 2003 and has since then been linked to actress Lindsay Lohan.
About Jared Leto. Jared Leto is an American musician and actor with a net worth of $40 million. He made his first big appearance on television as dyslexic, artistic Jordan Catalano love interest on the FOX television series My So-Called Life, starring Claire Danes.
In 1998, Jared finally started his own band called 30 seconds to Mars with his brother Shannon Leto. As a popular musician and leading actor, Jared Leto is reported worth $40 million annually. Most of Jared Leto net worth come from his acting roles both on television and the big screen.
Born on: 26th Dec 71 Born in: United States Marital status: Single Occupation: Entertainment. Jared Leto net worth is estimated at $40 million. Born Jared Joseph Leto in Bossier City, Lousina in 1971, Jared is more than a handsome face and is considered one of the most creative people in Hollywood.