A DNA virus is a virus that has DNA as its genetic material and replicates using a DNA-dependent DNA polymerase. The nucleic acid is usually double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) but may also be single-stranded DNA (ssDNA). DNA viruses belong to either Group I or Group II of the Baltimore classification system for viruses. All viruses in this group require formation of a replicative form – a double stranded DNA intermediate – for genome replication. This is normally created from the viral DNA with the assistance of the host's own
Viruses must first get into the cell before viral replication can occur. From the perspective of the virus, the purpose of viral replication is to allow production and survival of its kind. 1 Viruses containing nonsegmented genomes for which the first step in replication is transcription from the negative-stranded genome by the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase to yield monocistronic mRNAs that code for the various viral proteins.
Viral replication is the formation of biological viruses during the infection process in the target host cells. 1 Viruses containing nonsegmented genomes for which the first step in replication is transcription from the negative-stranded genome by the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase to yield monocistronic mRNAs that code for the various viral proteins.
1. For a virus to infect a host cell, that cell must have receptors for the virus on its surface and also be capable of supporting viral replication. 2. Adsorption involves the binding of attachment sites on the viral surface with receptor sites on the host cell cytoplasmic membrane. What follows is a generalized productive life cycle for animal viruses consisting of the following steps: adsorption, viral entry, viral movement to the site of replication and release of the viral genome from the remainder of the virus, viral replication, viral assembly, and viral release.
The basic process of viral infection and virus replication occurs in 6 main steps. 1  Adsorption-virus binds to the host cell. 2  Penetration-virus injects its genome into host cell. 3  Viral Genome Replication-viral genome replicates using the host's cellular machinery. Single-stranded RNA viruses however, replicate mainly in the host cell's cytoplasm. Once a virus infects its host and the viral progeny components are produced by the host's cellular machinery, the assembly of the viral capsid is a non-enzymatic process. It is usually spontaneous.
Like most viruses with RNA genomes, double-stranded RNA viruses do not rely on host polymerases for replication to the extent that viruses with DNA genomes do. Double-stranded RNA viruses are not as well-studied as other classes. This class includes two major families, the Reoviridae and Birnaviridae. 1 Viruses containing nonsegmented genomes for which the first step in replication is transcription from the negative-stranded genome by the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase to yield monocistronic mRNAs that code for the various viral proteins.
Virus Replication. Genomes of RNA or DNA viruses exist in a considerable variety of sizes and shapes, from small molecules of single-stranded RNA or DNA to large double-stranded molecules that may be linear or circular. Requires the presence of a viral fusion protein in the virus envelope, e.g. influenza haemagglutinin; retrovirus envelope glycoprotein. These mechanisms are shown in three different infection cycles for RNA or DNA viruses.
DNA viruses use the host cell's polymerase, an enzyme that catalyzes the formation of nucleic acids to make mRNA from its DNA in a process known as transcription, which is a process whereby DNA is converted into mRNA. After transcription occurs, the mRNA is taken to a few clerks at a store. 
4. With some RNA viruses, a DNA copy of the viral RNA is infectious. e.g. polioviruses, this permits the preparation of viral genomes, such as those of vaccine strains in high quantities by avoiding the high mutation rate in replication of RNA and its lability. 
DNA replication is an important process resulting in the production of another copy of the DNA strand. Learn about the DNA replication steps to better understand the process. slide 1 of 7. DNA or deoxyribonucleic acid is considered as the blueprint or the hereditary molecule of all living organisms. There are two DNA strands bounded by four nucleotide bases called purines and pyrimidines. The replication process does not result to a brand new chain of DNA. It is always a mixture of both the original strand that is conserved as a partner all throughout the continuous steps of DNA replication process and the recently made strand. This process is recognized as the semiconservative replication.