The genus is the first part of a scientific name. Note that the genus is always capitalised. An example: Lemur catta is the scientific name of the Ringtailed lemur and Lemur … is the genus. Another example: Sphyrna zygaena is the scientific name of one species of Hammerhead shark and Sphyrna is the genus. This means that you use the name of the genus followed by the specific epithet. It's the n … ame of the genus that is always capitalized, so Homo sapiens (modern humans) or Metasequoia glyptostroboides (dawn redwood). It is also important to either use italics or to underline the full species name.
The genus is the first part of a scientific name. Note that the genus is always capitalised. An example: Lemur catta is the scientific name of the Ringtailed lemur and Lemur … is the genus. Another example: Sphyrna zygaena is the scientific name of one species of Hammerhead shark and Sphyrna is the genus. They eat each other, phytoplankton, and decaying matter. Plankton consists of any drifting organism, such as animals, plants or bacteria. They inhabit the pelagic zone of oceans, seas, or any other bodies of fresh water. See related link below..
Plankton are primarily divided into broad functional (or trophic level) groups: 1  Phytoplankton (from Greek phyton, or plant), autotrophic, prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The name plankton is derived from the Greek adjective πλαγκτός (planktos), meaning errant, and by extension wanderer or drifter. It was coined by Victor Hensen.
Calanoida is the scientific name for a copepod, all zooplankton are in the family heterotrophic plankton. They eat each other, phytoplankton, and decaying matter. Plankton consists of any drifting organism, such as animals, plants or bacteria. They inhabit the pelagic zone of oceans, seas, or any other bodies of fresh water. See related link below..
Home What is the scientific name for phytoplankton. The phytoplankton group encompasses a number of micro-organisms, including diatoms and dinoflagellates, which live in the ocean. As there are many species of phytoplankton, there are many scientifi...
Within the plankton, holoplankton spend their entire life cycle as plankton (e.g. most algae, copepods, salps, and some jellyfish). By contrast, meroplankton are only planktic for part of their lives (usually the larval stage), and then graduate to either a nektic or benthic (sea floor) existence. The name plankton is derived from the Greek adjective πλαγκτός (planktos), meaning errant, and by extension wanderer or drifter. It was coined by Victor Hensen.
in Plankton, Sea Life. plankton facts-facts about plankton-what is plankton-. Plankton is not the name of a plant or animal but more of a category for any drifting organism that inhabits the middle to upper levels of the ocean, namely the pelagic zone. Interestingly, the word plankton is Greek for “wanderer” or “drifter”. Plankton are also divided into 3 main types: 1  Phytoplankton (from Greek phyton or plant), algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. 2  Zooplankton (from Greek zoon or animal), small protozoa, crustaceans, jellyfish and various other animals that feed on other plankton.
Plankton. Plankton includes plants and animals that float along at the mercy of the sea's tides and currents. Their name comes from the Greek meaning drifter or wanderer.. There are two types of plankton: tiny plants--called phytoplankton, and weak-swimming animals--called zooplankton. Some are babies that will grow into strong-swimming, non-planktonic adults. Others will remain plankton for their entire lives. Diatoms are the most common type of phytoplankton. They are single-celled yellow algae whose cell walls contain a lot of silica, glass-like substance. The actual diatom fits inside this cell wall, with one half of the wall fitting over the second half, like a lid. The name diatom actually means cut in two in Greek.
1 Among the more important groups are the diatoms, cyanobacteria, dinoflagellates and coccolithophores. 2  Zooplankton (from Greek zoon, or animal), small protozoans or metazoans (e.g. crustaceans and other animals) that feed on other plankton and telonemia. The name plankton is derived from the Greek adjective πλαγκτός (planktos), meaning errant, and by extension wanderer or drifter. It was coined by Victor Hensen.
These organisms include drifting animals, protists, archaea, algae, or bacteria that inhabit the pelagic zone of oceans, seas, or bodies of fresh water; that is, plankton are defined by their ecological niche rather than phylogenetic or taxonomic classification. The name plankton is derived from the Greek adjective πλαγκτός (planktos), meaning errant, and by extension wanderer or drifter. It was coined by Victor Hensen.