Epinephrine and norepinephrine are the two hormones secreted by the  adrenal medulla. These adrenal hormones are classified as  catecholamine's which are chemical compounds … made in the body from  the amino acid tyrosine. Liam Frayne. 
Hormone synthesis may occur in specific tissues of endocrine glands or in other specialized cells. Hormone synthesis occurs in response to specific biochemical signals induced by a wide range of regulatory systems. The term hormone is sometimes extended to include chemicals produced by cells that affect the same cell (autocrine or intracrine signalling) or nearby cells (paracrine signalling).
A hormone is a chemical that your endocrine glands send throughout your body. Hormones (which can be protein or lipid in nature) affect your growth, puberty, metabolism, weigh … t, figure, shape, physical appearance, reproductive behavior, and emotions. + 53 others found this useful. Chaise Williams. Hormones are a kind of biochemical messengers. Most hormones are chemical substances produced by specialized tissue formations called endocrine glands. The substances are secr … eted directly into the bloodstream, other body fluids, or into adjacent tissues.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Hormones are chemical messengers secreted from the ductless endocrine glands directly into the blood stream. Hormones have distinct structures that can sometimes be synthetically replicated to provide hormone replacement therapy in people who have certain types of hormone deficiency. 
The definition of a hormone is a chemical substance produced by an endocrine gland that has a specific effect on the activities of other organs in the body. The major female and male hormones can be classified as estrogens or androgens. 
Additionally, hormones can be classified by their structure 1  : Amino Acid Derivatives: these are derived from the amino acid Tyrosine. 2  Examples include Catecholamines and Thyroid Hormones. 3  Fatty Acid Compounds: these are derived from a polyunsaturated fatty acid pre-cursor, usually arachidonic acid. 
Chemical Nature of Hormones. Chemically, hormones may be classified as either proteins or steroids. All of the hormones in the human body, except the sex hormones and those from the adrenal cortex, are proteins or protein derivatives. Some endocrine glands secrete hormones in response to other hormones. The hormones that cause secretion of other hormones are called tropic hormones. A hormone from gland A causes gland B to secrete its hormone. A third method of regulating hormone secretion is by direct nervous stimulation
A hormone (from Greek ὁρμή, impetus) is any member of a class of signaling molecules produced by glands in multicellular organisms that are transported by the circulatory system to target distant organs to regulate physiology and behaviour. The term hormone is sometimes extended to include chemicals produced by cells that affect the same cell (autocrine or intracrine signalling) or nearby cells (paracrine signalling).
Hormones can be classified into following three groups on the basis of their chemical structure: i. Amino acid derivatives ii. Peptide hormones iii. Lipid derivatives AMINO ACID DERIVATIVES Amino acid derivatives are relatively small molecules that are structurally similar to amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. 