Shout was written and recorded by the Isley Brothers and released in 1959! Shout was covered by Lulu in 1964. and by the Shangri-las in 1965. And who could forget the (fictional) band Otis Day and the Knights in Animal House. The Beatles from 1964. Bon Jovi. And finally, Joey Dee and the Starliters from 1962. 
1 Perhaps the Beatles' best-known cover, Twist and Shout was originally a hit for the Isley Brothers, who reached #17 with it in 1962. 
Best Answer: I think you mean the Isley Brothers. They beat the Beatles to recording it in 1962. A not-very-famous group called the Top Notes were even earlier, in 1961, but their version flopped. The Beatles version is very much a nod to the Isleys rather than the Top Notes, however. 
Twist and Shout  is a 1961 song written by Phil Medley and Bert Berns (later credited as Bert Russell). The song was originally recorded by the Top Notes. It first became a chart hit as a cover single by the Isley Brothers in 1962. 
Long before Twist and Shout appeared in Ferris Bueller's Day Off, before it was made famous by The Beatles in 1963, and even before The Isley Brothers in 1962, it was recorded by a band called The Top Notes, a new and rising Philadelphia R & B band in 1961 on Atlantic Records. Twist and Shout was written by Phil Medley and Bert Russell. It was originally recorded by the Top Notes, and has been covered by bands such as The Isley Brothers, The Beatle … s, The Mamas & The Papas, and others.
The song Twist and Shout has an interesting story, in that the band who originally recorded it are seldom remembered, while not one, but two bands afterward were credited in … history. Long before Twist and Shout appeared in Ferris Bueller's Day Off, before it was made famous by The Beatles in 1963, and even before The Isley Brothers in 1962, it was recorded by a band called The Top Notes, a new and rising Philadelphia R & B band in 1961 on Atlantic Records.
Confidence votes 40. The song Twist and Shout has an interesting story, in that the band who originally recorded it are seldom remembered, while not one, but two bands afterward were credited in history. Twist and Shout was written by Phil Medley and Bert Russell. It was originally recorded by the Top Notes, and has been covered by bands such as The Isley Brothers, The Beatle … s, The Mamas & The Papas, and others.
The 1959 original by the Isley Brothers appeared in the 1982 comedy film Diner. Question Mark & the Mysterians recorded a version of the song on their 1967 album, Action. Alvin and the Chipmunks covered the song for their 1996 album Club Chipmunk: The Dance Mixes with Simon providing the lead vocals. The Beatles included a live version of the song on their 1996 rarites compilation, Anthology 1.
Shout  is an American popular song, originally recorded by the Isley Brothers. Question Mark & the Mysterians recorded a version of the song on their 1967 album, Action. Alvin and the Chipmunks covered the song for their 1996 album Club Chipmunk: The Dance Mixes with Simon providing the lead vocals. The Beatles included a live version of the song on their 1996 rarites compilation, Anthology 1.
Lyrics: Shout, shout, Let it all out. These are the things I can do with out. Come on, I'm talking to you, come on. Shout, shout, let it all out. These are the things I can do without. Come on, I'm talking to you, come on. Shout, shout, let it all out. These are the things I can do without. Come on, I'm talking to you, come on. Shout, shout, let it all out (let it all out). These are the things I can do without.