We calculate sunshine hours per day using our past forecast data. For October expect the sun to shine for an average of 11 hours per day. This represents the average number of hours in the daytime that the sun is visible and not obscured by cloud e.g. the average number of hours the sun is actually out and shining. Wind. The average daily wind speed in October has been around 15 km/h, that’s the equivalent to about 9 mph, or 8 knots. In recent years the maximum sustained wind speed has reached 59 km/h, that’s the equivalent of around 37 mph, or 32 knots.
Being that Kalgoorlie Boulder is located on the edge of a desert, the summer months can get quite hot, with the average temperature being between 18 C - 34 C. Thankfully most places are fully air-conditioned and cold beverages are available at the many cafes, coffee shops and hotels scattered throughout the City. When packing for your trip to Kalgoorlie in the warmer months, it is recommended that you bring plenty of cool light clothing, with a light jacket or similar for the cooler evenings. However, it is our cold winters that tend to catch most of our visitors off guard.
Being that Kalgoorlie Boulder is located on the edge of a desert, the summer months can get quite hot, with the average temperature being between 18 C - 34 C. Thankfully most places are fully air-conditioned and cold beverages are available at the many cafes, coffee shops and hotels scattered throughout the City. 
Kalgoorlie: Annual Weather Averages. January is the hottest month in Kalgoorlie with an average temperature of 26°C (79°F) and the coldest is July at 10°C (50°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in December. The wettest month is May with an average of 30mm of rain. 
1 Average monthly temperatures vary by 15.15 °C (27.3°F). 2  This indicates that the continentality type is oceanic, subtype truly oceanic. 3  Total annual Precipitation averages 270.6 mm (10.7 inches) which is equivalent to 270.6 Litres/m (6.64 Gallons/ft). 1 See map. 2  Kalgoorlie, Western Australia has a subtropical steppe/ low-latitude semi-arid hot climate (K ppen-Geiger classification: BSh). 3  According to the Holdridge life zones system of bioclimatic classification Kalgoorlie, Western Australia is situated in or near the subtropical desert scrub biome.
1 According to the Holdridge life zones system of bioclimatic classification Kalgoorlie, Western Australia is situated in or near the subtropical desert scrub biome. 2  The annual average temperature is 18.4 degrees Celsius (65.2 degrees Fahrenheit). 1 See map. 2  Kalgoorlie, Western Australia has a subtropical steppe/ low-latitude semi-arid hot climate (K ppen-Geiger classification: BSh). 3 
For Canberra in January the daily average maximum temperatures is 30°C with the average minimum 17°C, while in June the average maximum is 18°C with a minimum of 5°C. The wettest month for Canberra is February with an average of 109.1mm of precipitation falling while the driest month is July with 29.5mm falling. Wind. The average daily wind speed in October has been around 15 km/h, that’s the equivalent to about 9 mph, or 8 knots. In recent years the maximum sustained wind speed has reached 59 km/h, that’s the equivalent of around 37 mph, or 32 knots.
At night the average minimum temperature drops down to around 12°C, that's 53°F. In recent times the highest recorded temperature in October has been 41°C that's 105°F, with the lowest recorded temperature 3°C, about 37°F. Wind. The average daily wind speed in October has been around 15 km/h, that’s the equivalent to about 9 mph, or 8 knots. In recent years the maximum sustained wind speed has reached 59 km/h, that’s the equivalent of around 37 mph, or 32 knots.
1 The annual average temperature is 18.4 degrees Celsius (65.2 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  See the temperatures page for a monthly breakdown and the fixed scale graph. 3  Average monthly temperatures vary by 15.15 °C (27.3°F). 1 See map. 2  Kalgoorlie, Western Australia has a subtropical steppe/ low-latitude semi-arid hot climate (K ppen-Geiger classification: BSh). 3  According to the Holdridge life zones system of bioclimatic classification Kalgoorlie, Western Australia is situated in or near the subtropical desert scrub biome.