Exceptions include Ride with lamps and reflectors on at night and in dim light. (169.222, subd. 6) •Only ride a bicycle with working brakes. (169.222, subd. 6 b) • Don’t ride a bicycle if its size doesn’t allow the operator to stop, support and restart bike safely. 
Unfortunately, many cyclists choose to ride their bikes at dark without bicycle head lights or tail lights. This is against the law in most states in the U.S. (Amazingly, Washington, Texas, and others only require a head light and rear reflector.) It is also very dangerous. There are at least two primary reasons for you, a bicycle rider, to use lights at night. 1  First, the front head light illuminates the area in front of you, so you can ride safely, by being able to detect any hazards you approach.
In most places it is illegal to bike on the sidewalk. Cyclists are subject to the same laws on the road as a vehicle, someone that is also illegal to drive on the sidewalk (no … surprise there). Some cities have local ordinances that allow cycling on sidewalks but from what I have seen this is not very common.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, but you have to understand that it's illegal because at night those plastic reflectors most bikes have are just not adequate enough to assure a bicyclists safety from other vehicles on the road at night. Some places are now legislating rear lights as well. If you look up your city at http://www.municode.com chances are that they'll have all of your local laws and ordinances listed. It's a very accurate and up-to-date website.
Knowledge is a thing you can both share and keep. Riding w/o lights at nights in traffic is not only illegal, it's suicidal. Because w/o light or reflectors you become very hard to spot for other motorists, who might unintentionally run you down. Cyclists are subject to the same laws on the road as a vehicle, someone that is also illegal to drive on the sidewalk (no … surprise there). Some cities have local ordinances that allow cycling on sidewalks but from what I have seen this is not very common.
Proper Positioning. Bicycle reflectors reflect the upper beam of a car’s headlamps. To ensure you are visible on the road at night, position your safety equipment properly. Rear reflectors, for example, should point straight back. Inspect all installations regularly, tightening loose screws that can cause reflectors to move out of place. At night, a reflector makes you visible from 500 feet way, giving a car going at 60 mph about twice the distance it needs to come to a stop. On the other hand, if you forgo reflectors and wear blue or black, you become noticeable at 55 feet of distance, allowing a driver less than one second to react after he sees you.
In these states, it might be considered illegal for the cyclist to have the front light on the helmet or clothing, and not on the bicycle. Florida is one of these states. Florida Statute §316.2065(7) sets forth the mandatory requirements for bike lights and reflectors in Florida. The law says: There are at least two primary reasons for you, a bicycle rider, to use lights at night. 1  First, the front head light illuminates the area in front of you, so you can ride safely, by being able to detect any hazards you approach.
1 Put reflectors on your wheels and on the front and rear of your bike. 2  At night use a headlight and an active red light and reflector on the rear of your bike. 3  Maintain your bike: Carry a pump, a patch kit and a spare tube. 4  Take care of yourself: Carry plenty of drinking water and snacks for energy. Parking. 1  You can park your bicycle on a sidewalk as long as it does not impede pedestrian traffic. 2  You can park your bicycle at the curb or edge of the roadway where parking is allowed as long as it does not obstruct other vehicles.
i think you just have to have one of those red or white reflector things on the front and back of your bike... at least all the night rider's i've seen just have that and occasionally a helmet. 