Top of Page. Several types of laboratory tests are commonly used for the diagnosis of Bordetella pertussis. Culture is considered the gold standard because it is the only 100% specific method for identification. Other tests that can be performed include polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and serology. PCR is a rapid test and has excellent sensitivity. PCR tests vary in specificity, so obtaining culture confirmation of pertussis for at least one suspicious case is recommended any time there is suspicion of a pertussis outbreak.
Pertussis tests are used to detect and diagnose a Bordetella pertussis infection. Early diagnosis and treatment may lessen the severity of symptoms and help limit spread of the disease. Pertussis tests are ordered when a doctor suspects that a person has a Bordetella pertussis infection. A pertussis culture and PCR are performed when someone has symptoms suggestive of pertussis, and as early in the illness as possible (generally within the first 3 weeks).
Why It Is Used. The Bordetella pertussis blood test is primarily used to test for Bordetella pertussis bacterium, an infection that causes whooping cough. The early symptoms of whooping cough are very similar to those of many other colds. One may experience a runny nose, light coughing, sneezing, or a low-grade fever. 
1 Culture – this test has been the gold standard for identifying pertussis and is used to diagnose a pertussis infection. 2  The sample is put into nutrient media and the bacteria are grown and identified. Pertussis tests are ordered when a doctor suspects that a person has a Bordetella pertussis infection. A pertussis culture and PCR are performed when someone has symptoms suggestive of pertussis, and as early in the illness as possible (generally within the first 3 weeks).
Bordetella pertussis is a bacterium that targets the lungs, typically causing a three-stage respiratory infection that is known as pertussis or whooping cough. It is highly contagious and causes a prolonged infection that is passed from person to person through respiratory droplets and close contact. Pertussis tests are performed to detect and diagnose a B. pertussis infection. The incubation period for pertussis varies from a few days to up to three weeks.
Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative, aerobic coccobacillus capsulate of the genus Bordetella, and the causative agent of pertussis or whooping cough. Unlike B. bronchiseptica, B. pertussis is not motile. Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in.
Overview. Bordetella bronchiseptica is a bacterium commonly associated with respiratory disease in dogs. It can also infect cats, rabbits and, in rare cases, humans. It is one of the more common bacterial causes of canine infectious tracheobronchitis, which is also sometimes called kennel cough. 1 For adult dogs or puppies older than 16 weeks, the intranasal vaccine can be given once, and the injectable vaccine should be given twice, two to four weeks apart.
This test checks for Bordetella pertussis antibodies in your blood. B. pertussis are the bacteria that cause pertussis, or whooping cough. Whooping cough is a highly contagious childhood infection that can also affect adults. It can be quite serious and sometimes deadly, especially in children younger than 6 months. Its hallmark symptom is a cough that may last 10 months or longer
There are several tests that may be used when a pertussis infection is suspected: 1  Culture – this test has been the gold standard for identifying pertussis and is used to diagnose a pertussis infection. 2  The sample is put into nutrient media and the bacteria are grown and identified. Pertussis tests are ordered when a doctor suspects that a person has a Bordetella pertussis infection. A pertussis culture and PCR are performed when someone has symptoms suggestive of pertussis, and as early in the illness as possible (generally within the first 3 weeks).