Though Antarctica is sort of like an ice plain, scientists define  the driest continent by the amount of rainfall it has, and  Antarctica does not rain much, receiving only … 8 inches of wintry  precipitation a year. Because Antarctica is a polar region, there is no pr … ecipitation, it has no lakes or rivers and is in fact the driest continent.   Average temperatures in the Antarctic interior get down to -70 degrees Celsius during the winter months and -35 degrees Celsius in the warmer months.
Australia is the driest inhabited continent. Antarctica is the driest of all the continents. This is because in Antarctica it is too cold for the sun to heat up the oceans or melt the ice, so it will not evaporate. Because Antarctica is a polar region, there is no precipitation, it has no lakes or rivers and is in fact the driest continent. The interior of Antarctica is considered the world's driest desert because the extreme cold freezes water vapour out of the air. 17 people found this useful.
Surprisingly, no. Australia is not the driest continent on Earth. While much of Australia is very dry, the driest continent is a desert you might not even think of as a desert. It’s Antarctica. Deserts, you may remember, are not necessarily a place of great heat, but are instead characterized by a lack of rainfall.
Antarctica is the coldest, driest, and windiest place on Earth. The lowest temperature ever recorded was -89.6 degrees Celsius. Wind speeds during gales can reach 320km per hour. The average wind speed is over 70km per hour. These conditions can be a difficulty because of the cold, windy weather. Because Antarctica is a polar region, there is no precipitation, it has no lakes or rivers and is in fact the driest continent. The interior of Antarctica is considered the world's driest desert because the extreme cold freezes water vapour out of the air. 17 people found this useful.
Australia is the driest inhabited continent. Antarctica is the driest of all the continents. This is because in Antarctica it is too cold for the sun to heat up the oceans or … melt the ice, so it will not evaporate. Additionally, cold air (especially below freezing), cannot hold as much water vapor as warmer air. Because Antarctica is a polar region, there is no pr … ecipitation, it has no lakes or rivers and is in fact the driest continent.   Average temperatures in the Antarctic interior get down to -70 degrees Celsius during the winter months and -35 degrees Celsius in the warmer months.
Antarctica Continent, Antarctica Facts. Antarctica, the third smallest continent in the world after Australia and Europe, covers the earth's South Pole. It lies in the Antarctic Circle and is surrounded by Southern Ocean. It is known as the coldest, windiest, driest and least populous continent of the world. Without any element of doubt, Antarctica is the coldest place on earth where water remains frozen year around. It is a frozen desert with very little precipitation. Antarctica is the coldest and driest of all the continents in the world. Even an ordinary man is quite aware of Antarctica, being the coldest place on the face of this universe. The average annual temperature in Antarctica is 58 degrees.
Yes, the driest inhabited continent would be Australia but in overall the answer is Antarctica. Because Antarctica is a polar region, there is no pr … ecipitation, it has no lakes or rivers and is in fact the driest continent.   Average temperatures in the Antarctic interior get down to -70 degrees Celsius during the winter months and -35 degrees Celsius in the warmer months.
Because Antarctica is a polar region, there is no pr … ecipitation, it has no lakes or rivers and is in fact the driest continent.   Average temperatures in the Antarctic interior get down to -70 degrees Celsius during the winter months and -35 degrees Celsius in the warmer months. Because Antarctica is a polar region, there is no precipitation, it has no lakes or rivers and is in fact the driest continent. The interior of Antarctica is considered the world's driest desert because the extreme cold freezes water vapour out of the air. 17 people found this useful.
Australia is the driest inhabited continent on earth. Its interior has one of the lowest rainfalls in the world and about three-quarters of the land is arid or semi-arid. Its fertile areas are well-watered, however, and these are used very effectively to help feed the world. 