· just now. Report Abuse. Yes, Ayaan is hindu name as well. The name itself gives you a really strong character and other religion also has its meaning but in hindu it means In Hindu, Ayaan may indicate the path of the sun (rays of the rising sun) or “soaked in the Divine”.
In Hindu, Ayaan may indicate the path of the sun (rays of the rising sun) or “soaked in the Divine”. In various African languages we’ve heard Ayaan means everything from the center part of one’s soul to “brightness” and “good fortune”. Some say it means “notable” in Persian and “nothingness” in Hebrew. 
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. No, Ayaan is not a Hindu name it somalian name and that is my answer. 
Meaning of name Aayan, Origin of name Aayan, Personality of name Aayan, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Aayan and adorable Baby boy Photos of Aayan. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Aayan is lucky! 
Meaning of name Ayaan, Origin of name Ayaan, Personality of name Ayaan, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Ayaan and adorable Baby boy Photos of Ayaan. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Ayaan is lucky! 
Ayaan. The baby boy name Ayaan comes from the Indian word which means, Unknown.. Unknown word which means, rays of rising sun.. Arabian word which means, A spring with multiple streams and sides...basically a dynamic spring... Quran word which means, This word Ayaan is in Quran, Chapter Number 27
; अयान. Name Ayaan generally means Gods Gift, is of Indian origin, Name Ayaan is a Masculine (or Boy) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Muslim or Hindu by religion. Name Ayaan belongs to rashi Mesh (Aries) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) and Nakshatra (stars) Krithika. Find qualities of Aries (Mesh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Ayaan or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mesh (Aries) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Ayan, Ayn, Ayane, Aiyana, Ayona, Ayano, Aayan.