Company Reporting Structure. Reporting relationships determine who answers to whom. Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Reporting structure refers to the authority relationships in a company -- who reports to whom. For small businesses with only a couple of employees, that structure is often self-evident: Everyone reports to the owner. This framework establishes who is in charge of different tasks, departmental areas and the organization as a whole. These authority boundaries and the relationships among people in authority serve to create the reporting structure.
Chart. A company’s reporting structure can be laid out in an organizational chart. Lines on the chart link supervisor and subordinate, revealing the reporting relationships. Following the lines up from subordinate to supervisor to the top of the organization traces the chain of command. It’s hierarchical, with an employee answering to a supervisor above, that supervisor reporting to a manager, and so on up the hierarchy, ending with the top manager or executive. Organizing the reporting structure also sets other aspects of the company, including communication and decision channels.
Demystifying Microsoft's new financial reporting structure. Microsoft officials shared a few more details about the new company's new financial reporting structure, reflective of its July reorg. The new structure is complex, to say the least. By Mary Jo Foley for All About Microsoft |. | Topic: Microsoft. When Microsoft announced its new financial reporting structure reflective of its July company-wide reorg, there was considerable head scratching among those of us trying to decipher the details.
An organizational structure defines the scope of acceptable behavior within an organization, its lines of authority and accountability, and to some extent the organization's relationship with its external environment. Indeed, having a suitable organizational structure in place—one that recognizes and addresses the various human and business realities of the company in question—is a prerequisite for long-term success. Nonetheless, all too often organizational structures do not contribute positively to a company's performance.
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. The reporting structure of a business acts as its chain of command. It’s hierarchical, with an employee answering to a supervisor above, that supervisor reporting to a manager, and so on up the hierarchy, ending with the top manager or executive. Organizing the reporting structure also sets other aspects of the company, including communication and decision channels.
A standard corporate structure consists of various departments that contribute to the company's overall mission and goals. Common departments include Marketing, Finance, Accounting, Human Resource, and IT. 
Save. A company reporting structure is a hierarchy of administration within an organization or company used for the dissemination of bureaucratic, company and staff-related communication. A company's reporting structure is often reflective of its chain of command. In a company reporting structure, supervision is often delegated from the top of the reporting structure downward. Vice-presidents report to CEOs or presidents at the top of the structure, while mid-level executives report to vice-presidents. Mid-level executives often have a team of managers under their supervision.