Vet bills for a young puppy will likely range from $100-300 depending on the puppy's health and the region in which you live. Puppies need to visit the vet every few week until about 16 weeks of age, and each visit can run you $100-300 depending on your pup's needs. Your next major expense will be dog supplies. Plan on going to the vet for wellness checkups once or twice a year at a cost of at least $150-300 yearly. Annual blood work can add about $100-200. Dental cleanings are often recommended once a year and usually cost at least $300.
Report Abuse. Prices vary so much depending on the vet. One vet can charge $50 for a check up, while one down the street can triple that! Its all up to the vet on how much he or she wishes to charge you sadly. Unfortunately because your dog is sick, most vets will run a laundry list of tests to find out whats wrong or just to simply add to your bill. Report Abuse. All the vets I've been to have charged around $50 just for the checkup. There's a chance your dog will need immediate treatment (medication, tests, x-rays, or, god forbid, surgery), in which case your vet will urge you to take care of it.
Routine veterinary care is a huge part of keeping your dog healthy. Plan on going to the vet for wellness checkups once or twice a year at a cost of at least $150-300 yearly. Annual blood work can add about $100-200. Dental cleanings are often recommended once a year and usually cost at least $300. Of course, vet costs will be higher if your dog develops a health problem
Only a third said it was very likely they would pay a $2,000 vet bill. Once the cost of saving a sick pet reached $5,000, most pet owners said they would stop treatment. Only 22 percent said they were very likely to pick up $5,000 in veterinary costs to treat a sick dog or cat. The poll, conducted in April, involved phone interviews with 1,112 pet owners around the country. Cat owners were more likely to quit on a pet sooner than dog owners. Among those unwilling to spend $500 on veterinary care, 26 percent owned dogs and 54 percent had cats. But once costs exceeded $500, there was no difference between dog and cat owners and their willingness to seek medical care for an animal.
The cost of a check up will vary with the Vet Clinic. The average price is about $30 - $40. However, if the Vet finds something wrong and prescribes any medication, the cost will go up. 
For a first office visit for puppies, including deworming and first vaccines, I would suspect about $100 (in the US). You have to get more boosters later on which will run around $45-75 depending on the vet. Word of mouth is really the best way to find a good vet. I pay $30 for the office visit, but a years worth of worm and flea medicine plus the initial shots can cost $150 - $300 or more depending on what you get. metzkeb · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
As a good dog owner, you should do your best to be ready for life's little surprises. Emergencies, chronic illnesses, disasters and other unplanned expenses can amount to hundreds or even thousands of dollars per year. The cost of an emergency vet hospital visit can start around $500 and go up to $2000 or more. Plan on going to the vet for wellness checkups once or twice a year at a cost of at least $150-300 yearly. Annual blood work can add about $100-200. Dental cleanings are often recommended once a year and usually cost at least $300.
You can do it yourself if you have an easy-care kind of dog. If you have a breed that needs special trimming, you will have to take it to a dog groomer. Depending on the size and condition of the dog, it can cost anywhere from $15.00 to $60.00 or higher. You will need to see your vet at least once a year to get check-ups and necessary shots. Cost each year: $50.00 and up. Getting check-ups throughout your dog's life will keep him healthy.
Cost. The annual cost of a small dog—including food, veterinary care, toys and license—is $420. Make that $620 for a medium dog and $780 for a large pooch. This figure doesn’t include capital expenses for spay/neuter surgery, collar and leash, carrier and crate. Health. Your dog should see the veterinarian for a full check-up, shots and a heartworm blood test every year, and immediately if he is sick or injured. Dental Health. While many of us may object to our pet's bad breath, we should pay attention to what it may be telling us.
Cost of boarding per night: $15.00 and up. Cost for a pet sitter at home: $20.00 and up. As you can see, owning a dog costs money. Sit down with your parents and be honest about your family's ability to pay for a dog's needs. If everyone knows what to expect, there should be no surprises. You will need to see your vet at least once a year to get check-ups and necessary shots. Cost each year: $50.00 and up. Getting check-ups throughout your dog's life will keep him healthy.