Tularemia, or rabbit fever, is a bacterial disease associated with both animals and humans. Although many wild and domestic animals can be infected, the rabbit is most often involved in disease outbreaks. Tularemia is relatively rare in Illinois; five or fewer cases are reported each year. 
Tularemia occurs in both the U.S. and Canada. The most common cause of human infection is from direct contact with blood or flesh of wild rabbits (for example, skinning and eating wild rabbit meat). A person can also be infected by a tularemia-infected tick or mosquito, or by breathing tularemia-infected dust. Two recent incidents in the media have bought attention to the issue that rabbits, like many other animals, can be susceptible to certain diseases that normally are rare or may not normally affect rabbits. In early June, the media reported on an outbreak of monkeypox in Wisconsin and the Chicago area.
Hello, You don't have to worry. There are a few parasites that can be transferred from rabbits to humans, but they wouldn't cause the sudden death in rabbits that you've seen. And of course, there are common bacteria that many animals carry that can cause symptoms such as diarrhea in humans. When rabbits die in the way you've described, it's often due to viral diseases that only rabbits get.
Rabbits and Exotic Diseases. Two recent incidents in the media have bought attention to the issue that rabbits, like many other animals, can be susceptible to certain diseases that normally are rare or may not normally affect rabbits. In early June, the media reported on an outbreak of monkeypox in Wisconsin and the Chicago area.
If left untreated or if the strain of bacteria is particularly aggressive, this disease can be severe, chronic and potentially fatal.. There are 4 major infectious diseases seen in pet rabbits. Two serious diseases caused by viruses may occur in rabbits, although they are rarely seen in indoor pets. They are myxomatosis and viral hemorrhagic disease. Because they are viral diseases, there are no effective treatments once the rabbit is infected
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: yes they do carry diseases BUT diseases are generally highly species specific and cross between species only very rarely. About the only disease that you can easily get from a pet rabbit (or it from you) is the fungus ringworm. 
Diseases from rodents, pocket pets and rabbits. There are disease concerns with both wild (rats, mice) and pet (rats, mice, hamsters, gerbils, guinea pigs) rodents and rabbits. They can carry many diseases including hantavirus, leptospirosis, lymphocytic choriomeningitis (LCMV), Tularemia and Salmonella. Pocket Pets (rats, mice, hamsters, guinea pigs, gerbils and rabbits). Hamsters, rats, mice, gerbils, guinea pigs and rabbits are popular pets in many homes. Occasionally these animals may carry germs or may come into contact with wildlife and can contract diseases that they can then pass on to their human owners. Rat bite fever. Rat bite fever is a bacterial disease. The bacteria are carried by rats and are part of the normal flora of their mouth and nose
8/28/2009 2:27 AM. I have a question regarding any germs that rabbits might carry. I have two holland lops and they are the joys of my life! Recently it was asked to me by a friend if rabbits carry any germs that could harm a human. My friends mother is on dialysis and we wanted to be sure that no germs were being carried back to her mother. Does anyone have any insight on whether or not she could potentially bring something harmful home to her mother?