Where you live will affect how much you can expect to pay for brake service. Some areas of the country are pricier than others. So what may seem like a high price quoted in a brake repair cost estimate for a vehicle in one town may actually be a good deal in another. If the car has been used in situations requiring a lot of braking then the brakes will be worn down more quickly. And if the vehicle is used for extended periods of time while the brakes are showing signs of wear then that can also increase the brake repair cost estimate.
Parts: $145 - $213. The average cost for a brake pad and rotor replacement is between $297 to $406. Labor costs are estimated between $152 to $193 while parts are priced between $145 to $213. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. Brake rotors should be measured at every brake pad replacement. If found to be at or below the manufacturer's minimum thickness specification, they will require replacement. These measurements should always be noted on your repair order. We recommend braking gently for the first 40 to 50 miles of driving on new pads.
The average cost of master cylinder repair is usually between $200 and $300, but it can be more, again, depending on the scope of the fix. If individual wheel cylinders need to be replaced, the cost will go up. The repair price for an entire brake job—rotors, calipers, drums, pads, cylinders—can run you $750 or more. Therefore, it's best to stay on top of brake repair and get the pads replaced when you hear squeaking. Components like master cylinders wear down after time, so eventually it will have to be replaced
At Meineke, receive 50% off the cost of brake pads and shoes. For the most accurate estimate on installation, call your local Meineke and schedule a free inspection of your car brakes. BRAKES. Install your new brakes at Meineke and save 50% on brake pads and shoes! Contact your local Meineke service center for professional installation. If your vehicle isn't stopping like it should, don't hesitate, bring it into Meineke today for a FREE* no-obligation brake inspection at the first hint of trouble.
1 Replacing brake pads or shoes is less expensive than replacing damaged rotors or drums. 2  Expect the brakes on your new car to require service between 25,000 and 45,000 miles; between 20,000 and 30,000 miles on your new truck or SUV. 3  Have a pro check your brakes at least every 6,000 miles. 1
Brake service for most vehicles will usually mean resurfacing the rotors and replacing the front brake pads. Additional work could include adjusting the rear drums (if present). A rough brake repair cost estimate for a minimal brake job would be between one hundred to two hundred and fifty dollars. If you want to narrow down the price then try using this tool to get a more accurate brake repair cost estimate for you vehicle. If the car has been used in situations requiring a lot of braking then the brakes will be worn down more quickly. And if the vehicle is used for extended periods of time while the brakes are showing signs of wear then that can also increase the brake repair cost estimate.
Depending on your car’s brake system, it may use between 4-8 brake pads. When you step on the brake pedal, the master cylinder sends fluid under pressure to the brake calipers (which hold the brake pads). The caliper presses the brake pad against the brake rotor, causing friction that slows down the car. How It's Done: 1  Inspect brake pads. 2  Install new pads if thickness is less than 3mm. 3  Inspect: rotors, calipers, hoses, and brake fluid condition. 4  Perform a basic safety inspection. 5  Test drive the vehicle.