The software is a joke. My husband installed it and there is no way to connect wirelessly through it. I did not install the software on my Mac (Macbook,OS X 10.8.4) and this worked for me: Connecting in PBC mode. 1 Press and hold the (WPS) button on the control panel for more than. 2 seconds. The machine starts waiting for up to two minutes until you press the WPS. (PBC) button on the access point (or wireless router)
1 WPS54GU2 - no wireless connection Forum. 2  Can I connect a USB printer to the USB printserver port on a router using an eth Forum. 3  SolvedI have USB 3.0 Port on My computer & HUB, MY HP printer requires USB 2.0 Port. 1 Can I connect a USB printer to the USB printserver port on a router using an eth Forum. 2  SolvedI have USB 3.0 Port on My computer & HUB, MY HP printer requires USB 2.0 Port. 3  Which converter can be used to connect Printer Forum.
If your machine and an access point (or wireless router) support Wi-Fi Protected Setup™ (WPS), you can easily configure the wireless network settings by pressing the (WPS) button on the control panel without a computer. Select Configuration of Wireless network on the Printer Connection Type and click Continue. If Wireless Settings screen appears, select Using a direct wireless connection and click Next. If the screen does not appear, go to step 13. If below screen appears, press the (WPS) button from the control panel within 2 minutes.
1 Press the WPS button on your router. 2  Press the OK or Connect button on your printer within two minutes. 3  Sooner is better than later. 4  Observe the printer message,  Attempting to connect to your network 5  .. Press OK on the printer upon successful connection. Initiated from the router or access point: 1 
When using the WPS button to set the wireless network, security settings may change. To prevent this, lock the WPS option for the current wireless security settings. The option name may differ depending on the access point (or wireless router) you are using. Select Configuration of Wireless network on the Printer Connection Type and click Continue. If Wireless Settings screen appears, select Using a direct wireless connection and click Next. If the screen does not appear, go to step 13. If below screen appears, press the (WPS) button from the control panel within 2 minutes.
The Push Button Configuration or PBC method allows you to connect your machine to a wireless network by pressing both the WPS button on the printer and the WPS button on a Wi-Fi Protected Network Device. To connect to a wireless network in PBC Mode using the WPS button: 1  Power on your printer. 2  Press and hold the WPS button on the control panel for about 2-4 seconds until the blue status LED blinks quickly. 3  Press the WPS (PBC) button on the wireless router (access point). 1 Power on your printer. 2  Press and hold the WPS button on the control panel for about 2-4 seconds until the blue status LED blinks quickly. 3  Press the WPS (PBC) button on the wireless router (access point).
To add a WPS-enabled device to your network, simply press the WPS button on your router then press the WPS button on the device. They identify each other, and you’re off and running. There are other WPS connection methods, too, namely: 1  PIN number. 2  USB drive set-up (code is transferred from the USB stick to the new device). 
The Push Button Configuration (PBC) method allows you to connect your machine to a wireless network by pressing both the (WPS) button on the control panel of your machine and the WPS (PBC) button on a Wi-Fi Protected Setup™ WPS-enabled access point (or wireless router) respectively. If your machine and an access point (or wireless router) support Wi-Fi Protected Setup™ (WPS), you can easily configure the wireless network settings by pressing the (WPS) button on the control panel without a computer.
To connect your wireless printer to your wireless router using WPS: 1  Start the WPS pushbutton mode on your printer. 2  For instructions on starting WPS on your printer, consult your printer's manual. 3  Within 2 minutes, press the WPS button on your router. 1 Make sure you know your network name and your security password (WEP, WPA, or WPA2). 2  On the printer's control panel, go to the Network menu or touch the wireless icon and then go to settings. 3  Select Wireless Setup Wizard. 4  The Wireless Setup Wizard displays a list of wireless networks in the area.