The island in lord of the flies is a microcosm because the island is supposed to be a small concentrated of society as a whole, while the boys on the island are symbolic of th … e population of the world as a whole. Meaning that everyone in the world has the potential for evil, whether the exercise this or not. Microcosm is a small unit whose actions / behaviors resemble that of a larger group.
microcosm noun [C/U]. › a ​small ​place, ​society, or ​situation that has the same characteristics as something much ​larger: [C] What’s ​happened to us is a microcosm of what’s ​happened to ​industry in ​America. (Definition of microcosm from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press).
Full Definition of MICROCOSM. 1. : a little world; especially: the human race or human nature seen as an epitome of the world or the universe. 2. : a community or other unity that is an epitome of a larger unity. — mi·cro·cos·mic \ˌmī-krə-ˈkaez-ˈkäz\ mik. — adjective·mi·cro·cos·mi·cal \-ly-mi(k-)ə\ lē. — adverb in. microcosm 
1 British English: microcosm A microcosm is a small society, place, or activity which has all the typical features of a much larger one and so seems like a smaller version of it. 2  NOUNHe says the city was a microcosm of all cultures. 3  Brazilian Portuguese: microcosmo. 4  Chinese: 社会的缩影 社会會的缩縮影. 
Macrocosm/microcosm is a Greek compound of μακρο- macro-and μικρο- micro- , which are Greek respectively for large and small, and the word κόσμος kosmos kósmos which means order as well as world or ordered.. world Today, the concept of microcosm has been dominated by sociology to mean a small group of individuals whose behavior is typical of a larger social body encompassing it. A microcosm can be seen as a special kind of epitome. Conversely, a macrocosm is a social body made of smaller compounds. In physics, scale invariance describes the same phenomenon, although the universe as a whole is not physically scale invariant according to the modern understanding.
Save. microcosm /ˈmaɪkrəˌkɑːzəm/ noun. plural microcosms. microcosm. /ˈmaɪkrəˌkɑːzəm/. noun. plural microcosms. Learner's definition of MICROCOSM. [count]. : something (such as a place or an event) that is seen as a small version of something much larger. — compare macrocosm. The village is a microcosm of the whole country. The game was a microcosm of the entire season. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a microcosm is a small subset of a whole that is generally considered to be representative of the whole. An example of a microcosm is a small sect of the population which is surveyed in order to get an idea of the opinions of the general population. 
Macrocosm and microcosm is an ancient Greek Neo-Platonic schema of seeing the same patterns reproduced in all levels of the cosmos, from the largest scale (macrocosm or universe-level) all the way down to the smallest scale (microcosm or sub-sub-atomic or even metaphysical-level). Today, the concept of microcosm has been dominated by sociology to mean a small group of individuals whose behavior is typical of a larger social body encompassing it. A microcosm can be seen as a special kind of epitome. Conversely, a macrocosm is a social body made of smaller compounds. In physics, scale invariance describes the same phenomenon, although the universe as a whole is not physically scale invariant according to the modern understanding
microcosm. n. 1. a miniature representation of something, esp a unit, group, or place regarded as a copy of a larger one. 2. (Philosophy) man regarded as epitomizing the universe. [C15: via Medieval Latin from Greek mikros kosmos little world]. 1. a little world; a world in miniature (opposed to macrocosm). 2. anything that is regarded as a world in miniature, as an individual or a town. micro -, cosmos ]. mi`cro•cos′mic, mi`cro•cos′mi•cal, adj.