Chlamydosaurus Kingii. Chlamydosaurus kingii is one of the most familiar of Australia’s dragon lizards. It is thick limbed with a long tail and averages about 30 inches in length. The tail is striped with a deeper colored tip. Chlamydosaurus kingii are considered to be what is called a dragon lizard. Their mouth and tongues are pink or sometimes yellow, but the most incredible aspect of the small lizard is its frill.
They are native to various regions of Australia and New Guinea. The frill like ruff around the neck of this lizard earned it the name Frill-Necked Lizard. It is also known as the Frilled Neck Lizard and Frilled Dragon. This species is very popular as pets. 
Frilled Lizard Facts. Australian Frilled Lizards (Chlamydosaurus kingii) belong to the family of dragons, as the name Frilled Dragon indicates (the proper scientific name of the family is Agamidae). They are a fairly big lizard, growing to over 90 cm (ok, the tail makes up about two thirds of that length), and weighing up to half a kilo. The Australian Frilled Lizard is the most popular of our lizards because of its unusual looks and behaviour. It has many other names: Frill Neck or Frilled Neck Lizard, Frilled Dragon, and often it is affectionately dubbed  Frilly . (That's us Aussies, two syllables is all we can handle...).
Chlamydosaurus kingii is large, as lizards go. This species seems to average around 22.1 mm (8.7 inches) in snout to vent length, with a total length that can exceed 90 cm (35 inches). Size dimorphism has been noted in this species, with males being the larger of the two sexes (Shine & Lambeck, 1989). 
Chlamydosaurus kingii is one of Australia's most distinctive and familiar dragon lizards. It is a large lizard, averaging 85 cm (33 inches) in length. C. kingii is moderately robust with long limbs and a moderately long tail. The general coloring of this lizard is grey-brown. 
Frilled lizards are one of Australia's oddest-looking lizard species. Their huge frill, which can be 30cm across, seems to be mostly for display. Both sexes have frills, but males use them when threatened or when they encounter other males in their territory, especially during the breeding season. 
The frilled-neck lizard (Chlamydosaurus kingii), also known as the frilled lizard or frilled dragon, is a type of lizard that is found mainly in northern Australia and southern New Guinea. This species is the only member of the genus Chlamydosaurus. Its name comes from the large frill around its neck, which usually stays folded against the lizard's body. It is largely arboreal, spending the majority of the time in the trees. The lizard's diet consists mainly of insects and small vertebrates. The frill-necked lizard is a relatively large lizard, averaging 85 cm in length.
Frilled Dragon Chlamydosaurus kingii We have some fantastic Frilled dragons for sale and unbeatable prices. This lizard is primarily arboreal (tree-dwelling) and is one of the most impressive pet reptiles in the world. They are reminiscent of the Dilophosaurus dinosaurs from Jurrasic Park! When you buy a lizard from us, you automatically receive our 100% live arrival guarantee.
Frilled lizards (Chlamydosaurus kingii)—sometimes known as frill-necked lizards or frilled dragons—can be found across northern Australia, where they live in tropical and warm temperate forests and woodlands. 