Possible: Nobody really knows how long the egg lasts after ovulation but some experts in the field believe that it lasts for ~ 24 hours. I have seen people get pregnant by having intercourse within 24 hours of ovulation, so it is possible. ...Read more. 
Sperm can live up to 72 hours once ejaculated. Sometimes the egg is found within 45 minutes for fertilization, while sometimes it can take as long as 12 hours. If the egg isn't yet released from the ovary, it is thought that the sperm can go into a holding pattern for about 24-48 hours while awaiting release of the egg. The average egg lives only 24 hours, so it needs to be quickly after its release from the ovary. If an ova is to be fertilized, it is usually within 12 hours of ovulation, so the sperm must be ready.
You can begin looking for pregnancy symptoms as early as a week after fertilization. You can also begin testing for pregnancy as early as 7-10 days past your ovulation date with an Early Detection Pregnancy Test. If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of your cycle. The journey then begins all over again
If fertilization does not occur within 24 to 48 hours after ovulation, the egg disintegrates and is expelled with the uterus lining at the start of your next period, usually 12-16 days later. This is because sperm can live in your body for approximately 4 to 5 days, and the egg can live for 24 to 48 hours after being released. You are most fertile on the day before and the day of ovulation. Knowing your fertile days can help you increase your chances of getting pregnant, or avoid an unwanted pregnancy.
Report Abuse. Eggs usually survive 12-24 hours after release. However, sometimes another egg is released within 24 hours of the first egg (how you get fraternal twins), which means you could still get pregnant 48 hours after ovulation. Its possible that's what happened-the timing for the spotting looks good. Best Answer: The egg typically survives no more than 12-24 hours after ovulation. But that doesn't mean you could get pregnant from making love shortly after ovulation. You usually can't. Studies have shown that you cannot usually get pregnant from making love
How does ovulation determine my fertile days? Your fertile period starts about 4-5 days before ovulation, and ends about 24-48 hours after it. This is because sperm can live in your body for approximately 4 to 5 days, and the egg can live for 24 to 48 hours after being released. You are most fertile on the day before and the day of ovulation. Knowing your fertile days can help you increase your chances of getting pregnant, or avoid an unwanted pregnancy.
Yes | No Thank you! sperm can live up to 5 days, not 3. a human egg is only viable for 12 to 24 hours, you can get pregnant anytime from about five days prior to ovulation to even occasionally two days after, for a total of about seven days. That is the day you ovulate. Have sex 2 days before and 2 after. The dates and times are different for everyone but it's always 14 days from ovulation to start of your next period. posted 12/15/2009 by cariekhome.
Also it's based on a 28 day cycle. The person with the 28 day cycle will ovulate at the beginning of the five days, a 30 day cycle, in the middle etc....The first thing you need to know is how long your cycle is and first day to first day doesn't mean you count the first day twice. That is the day you ovulate. Have sex 2 days before and 2 after. The dates and times are different for everyone but it's always 14 days from ovulation to start of your next period. posted 12/15/2009 by cariekhome.
The egg is fertilized by the sperms within 24 hours. The fertilized egg travels down the tube, sits around in there for about 3 days then heads to the uterus floating around looking for a nice cushion, finds it, and implants about five days after it heads out of the tubes. You ovulate once a month and the egg stays viable for 12-24 hours. If your trying to get pregnant, having sex before you ovulate makes conceiving more likely. Emily · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.