Katong was the location of many villas and mansions of the wealthy elite in the late 19th to the mid 20th centuries, who made their fortunes in the Far East and built seaside resorts, villas and manors along the beachfront of Katong, beginning from Katong Park to the end of the East Coast. Katong is the name of an exotic species of sea turtle now extinct. It also means the rippling effect of a sea mirage when looking at a shoreline. Tanjong Katong was a popular beach along the East Coast. Tanjong means cape in Malay.
Joo Chiat is only a road, not a constituency Here is an update, Mr Philip Chew who has done research on Joo Chiat has informed that Mr Foo Kee Seng's remarks (found on the Uniquely Singapore: Katong/ Joo Chiat Walking Guide) are not substantiated by research. In fact, the opposite is true of Mr Foo's recall. There are more places to visit, so for now, let's take a break to recharge ourselves for more of the Katong/ Joo Chiat area. Do come back for more. (to be continued...in The Katong/ Joo Chiat Walk, Part 2). ** References: Uniquely Singapore: Katong/ Joo Chiat Walking Guide.
Patong beach on Phuket is the island's most popular beach and probably the most popular beach in all of Thailand. For many vacationers, it's the best of both worlds-a gorgeous, big, wide beach with white sand and warm water and plenty of shops, restaurants, bars and clubs in the surrounding area. Getting Around Patong: 
(Pssst..... head here for a huge, brand new guide to where to live !). When it comes to the most popular areas for expatriates to live in Singapore, this is what our Expat Living reader surveys tell us: 1  The most popular areas are Orchard, Tanglin, Holland Village, Novena, Bukit Timah and the East Coast
Katong's rich cultural mix has contributed to its unique cuisine. Katong is well known for its restaurants serving Peranakan (Straits Chinese) cuisine, particularly a spicy Malay noodle soup called Peranakan laksa. Katong Laksa originated from Joo Chiat area. Katong is the name of an exotic species of sea turtle now extinct. It also means the rippling effect of a sea mirage when looking at a shoreline. Tanjong Katong was a popular beach along the East Coast. Tanjong means cape in Malay.
In the early days, Katong area was from Tanjong Katong and westwards towards Katong Park and Grove Road (now Mountbatten Road). By 1928, Katong had encroached into Joo Chiat. Katong is therefore part of Joo Chiat. (Reference: T he Singapore House 1819 - 1942 by Lee Kip Lin, page 117) . It looks like the Katong/ Joo Chiat area has a very rich heritage and history way beyond my current level of comprehension. There are more places to visit, so for now, let's take a break to recharge ourselves for more of the Katong/ Joo Chiat area. Do come back for more. (to be continued...in The Katong/ Joo Chiat Walk, Part 2). ** References: Uniquely Singapore: Katong/ Joo Chiat Walking Guide.
Joo Chiat/Katong. Home of the Peranakans. Discover Peranakan culture as you stroll past heritage shophouses, quaint stores and eateries in this charming corner of eastern Singapore. Add to Bookmark-people added this. Add to Bookmark-people added this. Print. Print. The neighbouring Joo Chiat area is named after Chew Joo Chiat, a wealthy Chinese landowner in the early 20th-century. The area’s identity is especially shaped by its unique pre-war architecture – colourful two-storey shophouses and terrace houses with ornate facades, intricate motifs and ceramic tiles.
Because the Katong people loved his laksa, it has come to be known as the Katong laksa throughout the world in Hong Kong and New York. Katong is the name of an exotic species of sea turtle now extinct. It also means the rippling effect of a sea mirage when looking at a shoreline. Tanjong Katong was a popular beach along the East Coast. Tanjong means cape in Malay.
Katong is a residential area in the east of Singapore near the seafront. Formerly located by the sea, land was reclaimed all the way to East Coast Park to provide more land for housing and recreational purposes due to shortage of land in the late 1960s after Singapore gained independence. Katong is the name of an exotic species of sea turtle now extinct. It also means the rippling effect of a sea mirage when looking at a shoreline. Tanjong Katong was a popular beach along the East Coast. Tanjong means cape in Malay.