Glaucoma is a group of diseases that damage the eye’s optic nerve and can result in vision loss and blindness. However, with early detection and treatment, you can often protect your eyes against serious vision loss. The optic nerve. The optic nerve is a bundle of more than 1 million nerve fibers. 
The natural history of patients that have non-treated glaucoma is slow progression. Glaucoma is usually a slow disease. Untreated glaucoma takes on an average of 15 years to progress from early damage to blindness with an IOP of 21 to 25 mmHg, 7 years with 25 to 30 mmHg, and 3 years with a pressure more than 30 mmHg. Thus, most eye doctors will treat a pressure over 30 with out signs of damage. We tend to treat a little earlier. 
Fortunately for most patients the answer is no. Blindness does occur from glaucoma but it is a relatively rare occurrence. There are around 120,000 cases of blindness in the United States and 2.3 million cases of glaucoma. This represents about 5% of glaucoma patients. While it is more likely that you will have or develop glaucoma if your eye pressures are high, many people with high eye pressures never develop glaucoma. Furthermore, some people with glaucoma never have high eye pressures.
There is no set period of time for vision loss to occur. It depends on how severe is the degree of glaucoma and how high is the pressure. Young eyes are remarkably durable and can recover some vision even after a long period of increased pressure if treated. ...Read more. 
If it is untreated, glaucoma will result in blindness gradually. However, how long the glaucoma will take to go blind depending on the condition of your glaucoma. If it is serious enough, it may cause blindbness very quickly like weeks to months. If it is in the early time, it may take years to go blind. Shelby. I can't tell you how long does glaucoma take to go blind without treatment because without mote information about your age, your history and the severity of your glaucoma. In fact, it mainly depends on the severity of your glaucoma. If you have severe glaucoma, it may go blind quickly. If your glaucoma is mild, it will takes a number of years. According to your description, you may just have mild glaucoma since you had glaucoma for a few years
It depends on the type of glaucoma. Usually it takes one day to cause blindness if you have closed angle glaucoma and let it untreated. And if you suffer it, you may feel severe pain and sudden loss of vision. Also, there is a type of glaucoma progress is chronically. And it can be caught by regular eye exams. Still open angle glaucoma also progresses slowly. Anyway, if you get glaucoma, you shall consult an eye doctor to help you treat it.
1. Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness. Glaucoma can cause blindness if it is left untreated. And unfortunately approximately 10% of people with glaucoma who receive proper treatment still experience loss of vision. 1 After cataracts, glaucoma is the leading cause of blindness among African Americans. 2  Blindness from glaucoma is 6 to 8 times more common in African Americans than Caucasians. 3  African Americans are 15 times more likely to be visually impaired from glaucoma
Glaucoma is a group of eye diseases which result in damage to the optic nerve and vision loss. A major risk factor is increased pressure in the eye. The disorders can be roughly divided into two main categories:  open-angle  and  closed-angle  (or  angle closure ) glaucoma. 