June-bearing strawberries produce a single crop of strawberries over two to three weeks during the late spring or early summer (sometimes earlier), usually around June (see the Strawberry Varieties page for more details). Like most fruit, strawberries come from the delicate flowers that each strawberry plant produces. For June-bearing strawberries, special attention should be paid to the strawberry plant’s flowers. Generally, if you order strawberry plants online, they will be shipped to you in the spring. Once received, they should be planted as soon as possible.
Because they produce fewer runners than June-bearing types, maintenance is minimal. Strawberry plants may also be grown as a ground cover. To grow a strawberry ground cover, space the mother plants in a grid, either 1 x 1 foot or 2 x 2 feet. The planting will require regular weeding, in the first year especially, but maintenance should be minimal after the plants are established. June-bearing strawberries produce a large, concentrated crop in mid-June to early July. Ever-bearing types produce two crops, one in early summer and the second in early fall. Day neutral plants are capable of producing flowers and thus fruit throughout most of the growing season.
The flowers on strawberry plants will only take a few weeks to turn into strawberries. When strawberry plants produce flowers, and how long it takes before those flowers turn into ripe fruit, depends on temperature and day length. However, the number of days until ripening given by gardening sources is only a guideline. Days After Flowering. Strawberries are usually ready for harvest 30 days after the flowers open. This may vary depending on the weather conditions and the variety of strawberry you are growing. Use it as a general guideline for when to start checking your strawberries for signs of ripeness
The seeds on a strawberry are on the outside and you can carefully pick them off and dry them. Most seeds need to be put into the freezer for 3 to 4 weeks before planted. Be aware that many strawberries are hybrids and will not grow true from seed. Seeds also take a long time to germinate. 1 Plan to plant as soon as the ground can be worked in the Spring. 2  Strawberries are sprawling plants. 3  Seedlings will send out runners, or ‘daughter’ plants, which in turn will send out their own runners. 4  Make planting holes deep and wide enough to accommodate the entire root system without bending it.
Regardless of variety, all strawberry plants produce fruit in the same manner, with each flower ultimately turning into a plump juicy berry. The length of time it takes to go from flower to fully ripe fruit depends on plant variety, but is generally about four to five weeks from the appearance of the first petals. Formation of the small white flowers that ultimately become strawberries begins at the end of each year's fruiting season. The strawberry flowers begin as buds that emanate from the crown of the plants. The buds and flowers are delicate and can be destroyed by frost.
June bearing strawberries produce a crop during a two-to-three week period in the spring. June-bearers produce flowers, fruits and runners. They are classified into early, mid-season and late varieties. Everbearing strawberries produce three periods of flowers and fruit during the spring, summer and fall. Everbearers do not produce many runners. Day neutral strawberries will produce fruit throughout the growing season. These strawberries produce just a few runners. Everbearing and day neutral strawberries are great for gardeners who have limited space
Strawberry Flowers: Introduction. Strawberry flowers are the means by which strawberry plants ultimately produce fruit. But, they are tremendously intricate. The basics of strawberry flowers will be briefly discussed here, including how they grow from strawberry plants and what to do with them (and when). For June-bearing strawberries, special attention should be paid to the strawberry plant’s flowers. Generally, if you order strawberry plants online, they will be shipped to you in the spring. Once received, they should be planted as soon as possible.
Blooming as soon as the weather begins to warm in the spring, everbearing strawberries continue to flower and fruit through the long growing season. The ripe strawberries are normally ready to pick four to six weeks after the plants blossom, beginning in early May and continuing through the summer. Everbearing Strawberries. You should also plant everbearing strawberries (Fragaria ananassa) in the early spring. Like June-bearing strawberries, remove the flowers during the plants' first year of growth. Spreading by runners, the strawberry plants begin developing the following year's buds in fall.