* when offspring are produced from a single parent, it is called asexual reproduction * the offspring are identical to the parent! By cell division, one cell divides to become two. This process is used by some organisms, such as protozoans, to reproduce. 
Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms such as animals (some annelid worms [Which ones?] , turbellarians and sea stars), fungi, and plants. Parthenogenesis is a form of agamogenesis in which an unfertilized egg develops into a new individual. Parthenogenesis occurs naturally in many plants, invertebrates (e.g. water fleas, rotifers, aphids, stick insects, some ants, bees and parasitic wasps), and vertebrates (e.g. some reptiles, amphibians, rarely birds).
Reproduction (or procreation) is the biological process by which new individual organisms – offspring – are produced from their parents. Reproduction is a fundamental feature of all known life; each individual organism exists as the result of reproduction. There are two forms of reproduction: asexual and sexual. In asexual reproduction, an organism can reproduce without the involvement of another organism. Asexual reproduction is not limited to single-celled organisms. The cloning of an organism is a form of asexual reproduction. By asexual reproduction an organism creates a genetically similar or identical copy of itself. 
Reproduction is the process of generating offspring. There are two main types of reproduction: sexual and asexual. Some organisms reproduce by only one type of reproduction and others can reproduce by both. This chapter looks at the differences, advantages and disadvantages of sexual and asexual reproduction.
Asexual reproduction is the primary form of reproduction for single-celled organisms such as the archaebacteria, eubacteria, and protists. Parthenogenesis is a form of agamogenesis in which an unfertilized egg develops into a new individual. Parthenogenesis occurs naturally in many plants, invertebrates (e.g. water fleas, rotifers, aphids, stick insects, some ants, bees and parasitic wasps), and vertebrates (e.g. some reptiles, amphibians, rarely birds).
In asexual reproduction, the new organism has a single parent. In some forms of asexual reproduction, a single-celled organism divides in half to form two new organisms. In another type of asexual reproduction known as budding, a portion of an organism splits off to form a new organism. Based on a Genetic Code Offspring usually resemble their parents.
Asexual reproduction is reproduction without sex. In this form of reproduction, a single organism or cell makes a copy of itself. The genes of the original and its copy will be the same, except for rare mutations. They are clones. This always leads to daughter cells, and the offspring will be identical to the parent. Binary fission is a method of asexual reproduction. It is common in prokaryotes. A living cell divides into two cells.
Asexual reproduction in liverworts: a caducous phylloid germinating. Asexual reproduction is a mode of reproduction by which offspring arise from a single organism, and inherit the genes of that parent only; it does not involve the fusion of gametes and almost never changes the number of chromosomes. Parthenogenesis is a form of agamogenesis in which an unfertilized egg develops into a new individual. Parthenogenesis occurs naturally in many plants, invertebrates (e.g. water fleas, rotifers, aphids, stick insects, some ants, bees and parasitic wasps), and vertebrates (e.g. some reptiles, amphibians, rarely birds).