A piece of furniture with open shelves for displaying ornaments. Example sentences. 1  The etagere was the focal point of the parlor and often displayed precious glass, marble, porcelain, and curiosities on its cascading shelves. 2  Will you please inform Meeks that I have sent back the etagere as it is too small.
An etagere étagère is a piece of light furniture which was extensively made In france during the latter part of the 18th. Century it consists of a series of stages or shelves for the reception of ornaments or other small. articles
This is one of the easiest sites for finding a simple etagere, étagère as there are stacks and stacks of. Options, here'you ll find basic wood or metal etageres étagères foraround $ 100 as well as less, traditional etageres étagères such as a wooden ladder shelf for holding towels and. essential reading materials
Literary usage of Etagere. Below you will find example usage of this term as found in modern and/or classical literature: 1. The Architecture of Country Houses: Including Designs for Cottages, Farm by Andrew Jackson Downing (1859).
1 The etagere was the focal point of the parlor and often displayed precious glass, marble, porcelain, and curiosities on its cascading shelves. 2  Will you please inform Meeks that I have sent back the etagere as it is too small.
$3,600 $3,000. Gold is always a great investment, especially when it is a modern gold leaf etagere. Whether your tastes are Mid Century or Hollywood Regency or even art deco, any modernist with a dedication to elegance will easily find a place in their home for this beauty.
Convenient corner design with two door shutter styling in a tall cupboard. ncludes three open shelves on top for additional storage or display space and one shelf in the botto...
Étagère étagère is The french word for, shelf and it refers specifically to a decorative and functional tall shelving unit usually used for storage and display. purposes
This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days.