A Senator elected as presiding officer in this way retains his district seat and the voting privileges entailed with his Senate election. The Lieutenant Governor is sworn-in on the third Tuesday every four years, the same as the Governor. Dan Patrick has been the Lieutenant Governor of Texas since January 20, 2015. The term of office was two years from 1846 to 1972. Voters then increased it to four years, effective for the 1974 election. The Lieutenant Governor assumes the powers of the Governor of Texas when the governor is out of the state or otherwise unable to discharge the office.
About. Dan Patrick was elected Lt. Governor of Texas in 2014, winning the general election by almost twenty points, including historic levels of support from Hispanic voters and women. 
Telephone: (512) 463-0001. Dan Patrick was elected Lt Governor of Texas in 2014, winning the general election by almost twenty points, including historic levels of support from Hispanic voters and women. 
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The office of lieutenant governor was established by Article IV, Sections 1 and 16, of the Constitution of 1876. As a state office it was first established by the Constitution of 1845 and superseded the office of vice president of the Republic of Texas. Other lieutenant governors chose not to run for a second term. The first lieutenant governor to serve three terms was Asbury B. Davidson. In the 1920s Barry Miller followed suit. Subsequently, Ben Ramsey and Preston Smith were elected more than twice.
The Lieutenant Governor also serves as acting Governor when the Governor is out of state, a factor which has come into play in recent years due to the national roles played by Texas governors Richards and Bush. Richards actively campaigned for Bill Clinton in 1992 and frequently traveled out of the state. 
The Lieutenant Governor of Texas is the second-highest executive office in the government of Texas, a state in the U.S. It is the second most powerful post in Texas government because its occupant controls the work of the Texas Senate and controls the budgeting process as a leader of the Legislative Budget Board. Voters then increased it to four years, effective for the 1974 election. The Lieutenant Governor assumes the powers of the Governor of Texas when the governor is out of the state or otherwise unable to discharge the office.
The Lieutenant Governor is a member of the Texas Senate elected by the full Senate to serve as Lieutenant Governor b. The Lieutenant Governor is a member of the House selected by the Texas House to serve as Lieutenant Governor c. The Lieutenant Governor is appointed by the Governor and is approved by the Senate in its advice and consent power d. The Lieutenant Governor is elected statewide by the voters of Texas. 1 following
First up, the lieutenant governor gets to be governor if the governor dies and even if the governor just leaves the state for a few days. The Texas Constitution says you can't be the governor of Texas when you're not physically in the state. So when Governor Rick Perry was on the road hitting several national news programs last week, current Lt. Governor David Dewhurst was acting governor. The lieutenant governor still has power over a bill even if it makes it out of committee. They decide when a bill comes up for a vote, and when to recognize a senator for any floor action. So, lots of power. But, power that isn't dictated by the Texas Constitution or even state law.
The governor of Texas is the chief executive of the state and is elected by the citizens every four years. The governor must be at least 30 years old and a resident of Texas for the five years immediately before the election. 
The lieutenant governor was elected and served for two years. In 1972 Texas voters approved a constitutional amendment to increase the term of office to four years, effective with the election of 1974. Other lieutenant governors chose not to run for a second term. The first lieutenant governor to serve three terms was Asbury B. Davidson. In the 1920s Barry Miller followed suit. Subsequently, Ben Ramsey and Preston Smith were elected more than twice.