1 Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 2  Cut the bottom of each brussels sprout off (about 1/4 or less) and then slice in half lengthwise. 3  Toss all ingredients and place in a single layer on a baking dish. 4  Roast for 25 minutes or until brussels sprouts are slightly browned and tender throughout. 5  Serve hot or cold. 1 Cut the bottom of each brussels sprout off (about 1/4 or less) and then slice in half lengthwise. 2  Toss all ingredients and place in a single layer on a baking dish. 3
Create a new list: Method: Preheat oven to 400°F. Toss Brussels sprouts with oil, salt and pepper on a rimmed baking sheet and roast, stirring once or twice, until deep golden brown, crisp outside and tender inside, 30 to 35 minutes. The leaves that are loose will be especially brown and crispy. Transfer to a bowl and serve. 
Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C). 2  Place trimmed Brussels sprouts, olive oil, kosher salt, and pepper in a large resealable plastic bag. 3  Roast in the preheated oven for 30 to 45 minutes, shaking pan every 5 to 7 minutes for even browning. 1 Pour onto a baking sheet, and place on center oven rack. 2  Roast in the preheated oven for 30 to 45 minutes, shaking pan every 5 to 7 minutes for even browning. 3  Reduce heat when necessary to prevent burning. 4  Brussels sprouts should be darkest brown, almost black, when done.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Cut off the brown ends of the Brussels sprouts and pull off any yellow outer leaves. Mix them in a bowl with the olive oil, salt and pepper. Pour them on a sheet pan and roast for 35 to 40 minutes, until crisp on the outside and tender on the inside. Shake the pan from time to time to brown the sprouts evenly. Sprinkle with more kosher salt (I like these salty like French fries), and serve immediately
1 Take frozen brussels sprouts and place in a large bowl. 2  Pour olive oil and kosher salt over sprouts and mix well. 3  Place sprouts, evenly spaced and not stacked, on a baking sheet and place in a 400 degree oven for 40-45 minutes. Directions. 1 
For softer brussels sprouts: Pour about 1/2 cup of chicken or vegetable stock into the pan, cover, and put in a hot oven for 20 minutes, uncover and continue roasting until sprouts are browned and liquid is completely evaporated, about another 15 minutes. Roasted Brussels Sprouts. 4. Roast Brussels Sprouts. Put the trimmed brussels sprouts in a roasting or baking pan. Drizzle them with oil (grapeseed is a good neutral-tasting oil, olive oil adds a lovely flavor) and sprinkle them with salt.
1 Place trimmed Brussels sprouts, olive oil, kosher salt, and pepper in a large resealable plastic bag. 2  Seal tightly, and shake to coat. 3  Pour onto a baking sheet, and place on center oven rack. 4  Roast in the preheated oven for 30 to 45 minutes, shaking pan every 5 to 7 minutes for even browning. 1 Pour onto a baking sheet, and place on center oven rack. 2  Roast in the preheated oven for 30 to 45 minutes, shaking pan every 5 to 7 minutes for even browning. 3  Reduce heat when necessary to prevent burning. 4  Brussels sprouts should be darkest brown, almost black, when done.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Place halved Brussels Sprouts into a baking dish and toss with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Turn each of them so the cut side is down. Roast for 10 to 15 minutes depending on the size. I forgot about mine today and left them in for 15 minutes which was a tad too long for these