A relatively high concentration of magnesium or hydroxide ions would be required to revert the suspension to the solid precipitate by reversing the equilibrium. In this suspended form, magnesium hydroxide is a common component of antacids and laxatives; it interferes with the absorption of folic acid and iron. Magnesium hydroxide is composed of magnesium ions and hydroxide ions and it will precipitate whenever the two are present together-ie, combine in a metathesis reaction.
Before taking magnesium hydroxide, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details. For constipation problems, it may take 30 minutes to 6 hours to produce a bowel movement. Tell your doctor if this product does not produce a bowel movement, if you need to use this medication or other laxative products regularly for more than 1 week, or if you have rectal bleeding.
Hydroxide is a diatomic anion with chemical formula OH − . It consists of an oxygen and hydrogen atom held together by a covalent bond, and carries a negative electric charge. It is an important but usually minor constituent of water. It functions as a base, a ligand, a nucleophile and a catalyst. The hydroxide itself is insoluble in water, with a solubility product log K* sp of −11.7. Addition of acid gives soluble hydrolysis products, including the trimeric ion [Be 3 (OH) 3 (H 2 O) 6 ] 3+ , which has OH groups bridging between pairs of beryllium ions making a 6-membered ring.
[2] Magnesium hydroxide has lowsolubility in water, with a K sp of 1.5×10 −11; all ofmagnesium hydroxide that does dissolve doesdissociate. Since the dissociation of this small amountof dissolved magnesium hydroxide is complete,magnesium hydroxide is considered a strongelectrolyte. Preparation Magnesium hydroxide can be precipitated by the metathesis reaction between magnesium salts andsodium, potassium, or ammonium hydroxide:Mg 2+ (aq) + 2 OH − (aq) → Mg(OH) 2 (s) Uses Suspensions of magnesium hydroxide in water (milk of magnesia) are used as an antacid to neutralizestomach acid, and a laxative.
Magnesium hydroxide Mg(OH) 2 is a strong base as are the hydroxides of the heavier alkaline earths, calcium hydroxide, strontium hydroxide and barium hydroxide. A solution/suspension of calcium hydroxide is known as limewater and can be used to test for the weak acid carbon dioxide. The hydroxide itself is insoluble in water, with a solubility product log K* sp of −11.7. Addition of acid gives soluble hydrolysis products, including the trimeric ion [Be 3 (OH) 3 (H 2 O) 6 ] 3+ , which has OH groups bridging between pairs of beryllium ions making a 6-membered ring.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Magnesium hydroxide is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula of hydrated Mg(OH) 2. It is often known as milk of magnesia, because of its milk-like appearance as a suspension. Magnesium hydroxide is composed of magnesium ions and hydroxide ions and it will precipitate whenever the two are present together-ie, combine in a metathesis reaction.
The hydroxide ion forms salts, some of which dissociate in aqueous solution, liberating solvated hydroxide ions. Sodium hydroxide is a multi-million-ton per annum commodity chemical. The hydroxide itself is insoluble in water, with a solubility product log K* sp of −11.7. Addition of acid gives soluble hydrolysis products, including the trimeric ion [Be 3 (OH) 3 (H 2 O) 6 ] 3+ , which has OH groups bridging between pairs of beryllium ions making a 6-membered ring.
1 Magnesium hydroxide reacts with hydrochloric acid in the stomach to form magnesium chloride which neutralises the acidity of the stomach contents. 2  In general, this drug is used to relieve constipation and for the relief of indigestion. Magnesium hydroxide should be used with caution in: the elderly or weak (debilitated) patients, children under the age of 3 years, and those with liver or kidney problems.
While magnesium hydroxide has a low solubility in water, with a Ksp of 1.5×10 −11, it is large enough that it will partially dissolve to produce ions in the solution, forming the suspension. Magnesium hydroxide is composed of magnesium ions and hydroxide ions and it will precipitate whenever the two are present together-ie, combine in a metathesis reaction.