Learn what parathyroid glands are, where the parathyroid glands are located, and how the parathyroid glands control our calcium levels. Parathyroid Overview starts on this page. Hyperparathyroidism is introduced. Regulation of blood calcium is discussed along with the meaning of high blood calcium. The Role of the Parathyroid Glands -- to Regulate Calcium. The ONLY purpose of the parathyroid glands is to regulate the calcium level in our bodies within a very narrow range so that the nervous and muscular systems can function properly. This is all they do.
Parathyroid glands are small glands of the endocrine system which are located in the neck behind the thyroid. Parathyroid glands control the calcium in our bodies--how much calcium is in our bones, and how much calcium is in our blood. The Role of the Parathyroid Glands -- to Regulate Calcium. The ONLY purpose of the parathyroid glands is to regulate the calcium level in our bodies within a very narrow range so that the nervous and muscular systems can function properly. This is all they do.
The parathyroids produce a hormone called parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTHPTH-parathyroid hormone raises the blood calcium level by: 1  breaking down the bone (where most of the body's calcium is stored) and causing calcium release. 2  increasing the body's ability to absorb calcium from food.
Normal parathyroid glands work like the thermostat in your home to keep blood calcium levels in a very tightly controlled range. When the blood calcium level is too low, PTH is released to bring the calcium level back up to normal. PTHPTH-parathyroid hormone raises the blood calcium level by: 1  breaking down the bone (where most of the body's calcium is stored) and causing calcium release. 2  increasing the body's ability to absorb calcium from food.
The parathyroid glands produce the parathyroid hormone (PTH). The job of the parathyroid glands is to adjust their production of PTH to keep calcium levels in your blood within a normal range. If the calcium level in your blood starts to drop, the parathyroid glands make more PTH. If calcium levels rise, the glands make less hormone. 
The thyroid gland and parathyroid glands are a group of endocrine glands located in the base of the neck. These glands play a vital role in maintaining the body’s homeostasis by producing hormones that regulate the body’s metabolism and free calcium levels. 
The parathyroid glands are four tiny glands, located in the neck, that control the body's calcium levels. Each gland is about the size of a grain of rice (weighs approximately 30 milligrams and is 3-4 millimeters in diameter). PTHPTH-parathyroid hormone raises the blood calcium level by: 1  breaking down the bone (where most of the body's calcium is stored) and causing calcium release. 2  increasing the body's ability to absorb calcium from food.
The parathyroid glands are four tiny glands located behind the thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands produce a substance (parathyroid hormone) that helps control the amount of calcium in the blood. By Healthwise Staff. 