Haggis is a savoury pudding containing sheep's pluck (heart, liver and lungs); minced with onion, oatmeal, suet, spices, and salt, mixed with stock, traditionally encased in the animal's stomach though now often in an artificial casing instead. Dickson Wright suggests that haggis was invented as a way of cooking quick-spoiling offal near the site of a hunt, without the need to carry along an additional cooking vessel. The liver and kidneys could be grilled directly over a fire, but this treatment was unsuitable for the stomach, intestines, or lungs.
Posts: 24. Very bad... Haggis is really good, but the suet makes it bad for your health. I used to have the traditional recipe with the facts, but I lost it. I know the recipe from memory and make it all the time. 
A warm welcome to the Award Winning Scottish Haggis Website. This is the home of McKean's of Scotland-Haggis makers since 1850. Here we tell you a little bit about the products we make-Scotland's traditional food-Haggis-and provide an easy way for you to buy Haggis online and have it delivered directly to your door. For trade customer please visit www.mclaysfoods.co.uk.
Yes, it is VERY good for you and utterly delicious. You don't have to have it on it's own of course. I know of a dish where it is stuffed into chicken breasts, then cover them with a mild cheese sauce and serve with baby new potatoes and carrots, sugar snap peas etc. Fab. The use of offal in Haggis, and mutton in that other famous Scots dish, the Mutton Pie, came about because the Scots had to use every possible food source. One did not kill a valuable lamb-not until one had got a few years worth of wool from the creature.
Haggis, with neeps (turnips), gives protein, carbohydrates and fat, along with fibre and vitamins and minerals. It certainly beats McDonbuggerkfc as a healthy food, and kicks the deep-fried Mars bar into the Murrayfield touch. The use of offal in Haggis, and mutton in that other famous Scots dish, the Mutton Pie, came about because the Scots had to use every possible food source. One did not kill a valuable lamb-not until one had got a few years worth of wool from the creature.
Friday is Burns night, a celebration of all things Scottish and first proper foodie celebration of the new-year for many. By all means serve your haggis in the traditional way with neeps and tatties (mashed swede and potato for the uninitiated) but make sure that you shop generously and have some leftovers to play with. Warm haggis served with soft floury tortilla wraps and creamy tzatziki is an unexpected match made in heaven! 
Haggis. Pronounce it: ha-giss. A traditional Scottish dish most people either love or hate, given its unique list of ingredients. Haggis is usually made by combining sheep's 'pluck' (heart, liver and lungs) with onion, oatmeal, suet, spices, soaked in stock and then boiled in the sheep's stomach. Haggis is traditionally served as part of the Burns supper annually on January 25th, when Scotland's national poet, Robert Burns, is celebrated
A traditional haggis recipe describes haggis as sheep's 'pluck' (heart, liver and lungs), minced with onion, oatmeal, suet, spices, and salt, mixed with stock, and traditionally encased in the animals stomach and boiled. Dickson Wright suggests that haggis was invented as a way of cooking quick-spoiling offal near the site of a hunt, without the need to carry along an additional cooking vessel. The liver and kidneys could be grilled directly over a fire, but this treatment was unsuitable for the stomach, intestines, or lungs.
This will prevent the haggis from bursting. In a large pot of boiling water, gently place the filled stomach, being careful not to splash. Cook over high heat for 3 hours. Serve with mashed potatoes, if you serve it at all. In a large bowl, combine the minced liver, heart, tongue, suet, onions, and toasted oats. Season with salt, pepper, and dried herbs. Moisten with some of the cooking water so the mixture binds. Remove the stomach from the cold salted water and fill 2/3 with the mixture.
It is full of all manner of things which are good for you, and a few that are not, like whisky, but that I guess gets burned off in the cooking process. The use of offal in Haggis, and mutton in that other famous Scots dish, the Mutton Pie, came about because the Scots had to use every possible food source. One did not kill a valuable lamb-not until one had got a few years worth of wool from the creature.