You can find out where the majority of the Morin families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Morin birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Morin Name Meaning. English and French: from a diminutive of the medieval nickname and personal name More (see Moore).Italian: Venetian variant of Morini.Spanish (Morin): morín possibly a derivative Of. MORO.Gt: dutch from a short pet form of A germanic compound personal name beginning With-, Maur- (mor See more). 4 Click on a circle in the chart to view Morin birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Alternate Surname Spellings: MOREN, MORRIN, MORREN. More Resources for the Surname MORIN : French Genealogy. Research your French family tree with the help of these genealogical societies, records, surname lists, archives and libraries, and French genealogy research guides. Cousin Connect-MORIN Genealogy Queries. Read or post genealogy queries for the surname MORIN, and sign up for free notification when new Morin queries are added. DistantCousin.com-MORIN Genealogy & Family History. Free databases and genealogy links for the last name MORIN.
Definition: 1) From the Old French morin, a diminutive of the name More, meaning dark and swarthy [as a moor]. 2) One who resided in or near a moor. Cousin Connect-MORIN Genealogy Queries. Read or post genealogy queries for the surname MORIN, and sign up for free notification when new Morin queries are added. DistantCousin.com-MORIN Genealogy & Family History. Free databases and genealogy links for the last name MORIN.
Auger Morin was christened at the French Huguenot Church, Threadneedle Street, London, on July 3rd 1692, and in 1693 William Moran was christened in St. Anne's Soho, Westminster. Taking Ireland first, the modern spelling originates from the pre 10th century Olde Gaelic O' Murchain, (the son of the descendant of Murdoch), and in the forms above has been very popular in counties Offally and Kildare since at least 1659 when it is shown to be the most numerous name in at least five baronies.
This is a very confusing surname. As O'Morahan, O'Moran, and Morahan, it is clearly of Irish origins, but as Moran, Morin, and Morain, which are also recorded in France, Ireland and England, it can be from any otf those countries. Taking Ireland first, the modern spelling originates from the pre 10th century Olde Gaelic O' Murchain, (the son of the descendant of Murdoch), and in the forms above has been very popular in counties Offally and Kildare since at least 1659 when it is shown to be the most numerous name in at least five baronies.
Morin is a common French surname meaning The dark skinned or dark haired one. 1 Augustin-Norbert Morin (1803–1865), lawyer, judge and politician, joint Premier of the Province of Canada. 2  Blain Morin, Canadian politician and labour union organizer. 3  Claude Morin (ADQ politician) (born 1953), Canadian politician.
MORIN-Surname Meaning | Origin for the Surname Morin Genealogy. Share. Learn the meaning and origin of the last name Morris, plus find genealogy and family trees for the Morris surname. MILNE-Surname Meaning | Origin for the Surname Milne Genealogy. Share. Learn the meaning and origin of the last name Mitchell, plus find genealogy and family trees for the Mitchell surname.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Robert Morin, which was dated circa 1140, in the Documents relating to the Danelaw for the city of London, during the reign of King Stephen, known as Count of Blois, 1135 - 1154. Taking Ireland first, the modern spelling originates from the pre 10th century Olde Gaelic O' Murchain, (the son of the descendant of Murdoch), and in the forms above has been very popular in counties Offally and Kildare since at least 1659 when it is shown to be the most numerous name in at least five baronies.