When a company cares deeply about the people and animals that create their products, it comes through in the quality and taste. Organic India purchases ingredients directly from small farms in India to produce traditional ghee, teas, herbs, spices and wellness supplements. Organic India works directly with the farmers, no middlemen, and guarantees wages and a fair market price for crops, whether they fail or flourish. They pay women and men equal wages and part of their mission is to create work for widows, whom often face exceptional social and economic hardship.
Organic India pursued and obtained organic certification for a 562,000-acre forest where wild-crafted herbs are harvested. “People who live in this forest are able to continue their tribal traditions and make a good living,” Heather explains. “It protects the forest and people’s livelihoods at the same time.”. Organic India works directly with the farmers, no middlemen, and guarantees wages and a fair market price for crops, whether they fail or flourish. They pay women and men equal wages and part of their mission is to create work for widows, whom often face exceptional social and economic hardship.
When the organic revolution began, one saw oils, soaps and shampoos as the natural and organic products on offer. Now the range from many brands has grown to creams, serums, lip balms and makeup too! Here are some of the best organic beauty brands in India and the best of the products they have. Most of these brands have their own websites which offer online shopping. You can even find them on popular e-commerce websites selling beauty and organic products. 1. 
Organic India. Organic India is a company that was founded with the mission of offering safe herbal products to the world. The founders’ idea was to support the livelihood of thousands of impoverished farmers in India. Organic India specializes in teas and herbal supplements. Fan favorites include India Breakfast Tulsi Tea and Ashwagandha capsules. They also offer specialty products like Chyawanprash Herbal Jam and Organic Whole Husk Psyllium. Organic India delivers the highest quality, most effective, pure and natural products
The fruity aroma and taste left us cheerful and spirited. Cue smiley faces. It's safe to say that Organic India and Mittal's stole the show. But as most teas left us with a cold void, asking for much more, we wonder if the green tea boom is yet to mature in India. Disclaimer. All reviews are strictly personal opinion of the authors. 
http://www.vitacost.com/organic-india-triphala-90-vegetarian-capsules. Organic India Triphala -- 90 Vegetarian Capsules 4.9 5 7 8. Authentic & reliable I have tried at least three other brands of Triphala. Usually I break the capsules open and make tea with them, as that is how Triphala was originally prescribed. So I know the taste. Some of them are very astringent, unpalatable.
Yogi Green Tea: This is an antioxidant tea which gives support to our natural defense system. This also contains caffeine to some extent. Yogi tea is a well known organic green tea brand in China, India, and Sri Lanka. It has a very good taste with subtle aroma. 
Organic India is a global leader in promoting organic products and in supporting sustainable farming. Organic India cultivate, collect, process, manufacture and market Certified Organic Tulsi Teas, Herbal Supplements, Psyllium, Castor Oil, Ayurvedic and Medicinal Herbs, and many other organic foods and organic spices. Organic India products are of the highest quality and marketed all over the world. Organic India is proud and honored to be the first company to introduce the sacred Tulsi (Holy Basil) as a delicious Herbal Tea. Herbspro.com is proud to carry the entire range of this fine brand