Mixing yellow paint, a small amount of blue paint, orange paint, and a very small amount of black paint is one method that can be used to create brown paint. Answer: If you … mix green and orange you get kind of a tanntish color brown!!!!
It depends on the particular hue of tan, but assuming it's a typical yellowish tan you would mix it's compliment (a muted bluish purple) to get gray. To get grey or brown you always mix complimentary colors. If you want brown you use a bit more of the warmer hue in the complimentary pair.
Paint colors are made by adding pigment or colors to white paint. The more of a certain color you add the deeper that color becomes. You can mix colors to get different result … s. If you add yellow to a white base, you will get yellow paint. If you add yellow and red, you will get orange paint.
Mix equal amounts of two primary colors to create secondary colors. The results are violet (red and blue), green (blue and yellow) and orange (red and yellow). Tertiary Colors. Mix one primary color with larger amounts of another primary color to create tertiary colors. For example, mix one part blue with two parts red to make red-violet. Other Color Terms. 1  The hue of a color is the basic color. 2  For example, blue is the hue in light blue and dark blue.
In order to make tan you should mix white and brown. If you want to make the brown color yourself mix 2 parts of one primary color (like red) and 1 part of each of the other t … wo (blue and yellow). The more white you use the lighter the shade of tan.
Paint colors are made by adding pigment or colors to white paint. The more of a certain color you add the deeper that color becomes. You can mix colors to get different result … s. If you add yellow to a white base, you will get yellow paint. If you add yellow and red, you will get orange paint.
Brown is a tertiary color-which means: mixed by all three primary colors. When yo mix all primary colors (red, yellow and blue) in equal amounts, you'll get neutral grey, and when you add more red and yellow, and just a little blue, you'll get brown. It's just, there are so many kinds of brown!