Radio waves are a type of electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum longer than infrared light. Radio waves have frequencies from 300 GHz to as low as 3 kHz, and corresponding wavelengths ranging from 1 millimeter (0.039 in) to 100 kilometers (62 mi). Like all other electromagnetic waves, they travel at the speed of light. Naturally occurring radio waves are made by lightning, or by astronomical objects
Radiofrequency (RF) energy is another name for radio waves. It is one form of electromagnetic energy which consists of waves of electric and magnetic energy moving together (radiating) through space. The area where these waves are found is called an electromagnetic field. RF energy includes waves with frequencies ranging from about 3000 waves per second (3 kHz) to 300 billion waves per second (300 GHz). Microwaves are a subset of radio waves that have frequencies ranging from around 300 million waves per second (300 MHz) to three billion waves per second (3 GHz).
The electromagnetic (EM) spectrum is the range of all types of EM radiation. Radiation is energy that travels and spreads out as it goes  the visible light that comes from a lamp in your house and the radio waves that come from a radio station are two types of electromagnetic radiation. Astronomers who study radio waves tend to use wavelengths or frequencies. Most of the radio part of the EM spectrum falls in the range from about 1 cm to 1 km, which is 30 gigahertz (GHz) to 300 kilohertz (kHz) in frequencies. The radio is a very broad part of the EM spectrum
FIND OUT MORE. Many different kinds of energy travel in waves. Sound waves carry noises through the air to our ears. SEISMIC WAVES travel inside the Earth and cause earthquakes. Light, heat, radio, and similar types of energy are carried by a variety of waves in the ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM. Some energy waves need a medium, such as water or air, through which to travel. These are waves that carry energy as electricity and magnetism at the speed of light. Light we can see is also an electromagnetic wave, but other types of electromagnetic wave are invisible. The various types of electromagnetic wave have different frequencies and wavelengths.
Radio waves are energy. Electromagnetic energy to be exact. The amount of energy a radio wave has will depend on the amount of power the transmitter has, the amount of amplifi … cation, the quality of the cable connecting it to the antenna and finally the antenna. The amount of energy is usually measured in watts. The energy of a photon of electromagnetic radiation, such as radio or infrared radiation is related to the frequency of the photon by E=hf, where E is the energy of the photon … , h is the Planck constant, and f is the frequency of the photon.
Radio waves have the longest wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum. They range from the length of a football to larger than our planet. Heinrich Hertz proved the existence of radio waves in the late 1880s. He used a spark gap attached to an induction coil and a separate spark gap on a receiving antenna. You can tune a radio to a specific wavelength—or frequency—and listen to your favorite music. The radio receives these electromagnetic radio waves and converts them to mechanical vibrations in the speaker to create the sound waves you can hear.
Electromagnetic radiation (EM radiation or EMR) is the radiant energy released by certain electromagnetic processes. Visible light is one type of electromagnetic radiation, other familiar forms are invisible electromagnetic radiations such as radio waves, infrared light and X rays. 
Electromagnetic radiation (which includes radio waves, light, cosmic rays, etc.) moves through empty space at the speed of 299,792 km per second. Sunshine is a familiar example of electromagnetic radiation that is naturally emitted by the Sun. Starlight is the same thing from Suns that are much farther away. 
Electromagnetic radiation is transmitted in waves or particles at different wavelengths and frequencies. This broad range of wavelengths is known as the electromagnetic (EM) spectrum. The spectrum is generally divided into seven regions in order of decreasing wavelength and increasing energy and frequency. 