Confidence votes 76. The first Coca-Cola recipe was invented in a drugstore in Columbus, Georgia by John Pemberton, originally as a cocawine called Pemberton's French Wine Coca in 1885. He may have been inspired by the formidable success of Vin Mariani, a European cocawine. Coca Cola was invented in the late 1800's by a pharmacist named John Pemberton in Columbus, Ga. I live here in Columbus, Ga and they still have the house he invented Coca Cola … in downtown in our historci district. I've been to it myself on field trips when I was younger
Additional Facts and Other Important Information. The invention of Coca-Cola started out when Pemberton was working as a chemist and druggist in Columbus, Georgia. In his quest to produce a coca wine, he combined damiana, kola nut and coca, and later on called the mixture Pemberton’s French Wine Coca. 
Coca-Cola was invented in 1885 by John Pemberton in a drugstore in Columbus, Georgia, and was originally called Pemberton's French Wine Coca. Coca Cola was invented in the late 1800's by a pharmacist named John Pemberton in Columbus, Ga. I live here in Columbus, Ga and they still have the house he invented Coca Cola … in downtown in our historci district. I've been to it myself on field trips when I was younger
Birth of Coca Cola. The soft drink was first sold to the public at the soda fountain in Jacob's Pharmacy in Atlanta on May 8, 1886. About nine servings of the soft drink were sold each day. Sales for that first year added up to a total of about $50.
About Us. Coca-Cola history began in 1886 when the curiosity of an Atlanta pharmacist, Dr. John S. Pemberton, led him to create a distinctive tasting soft drink that could be sold at soda fountains. Closed. Coca-Cola history began in 1886 when the curiosity of an Atlanta pharmacist, Dr. John S. Pemberton, led him to create a distinctive tasting soft drink that could be sold at soda fountains.
COCA COLA-MARKETING HISTORY A good marketing campaign can make the world of difference if the company concerned has a mind to HOME | BIOLOGY | BOOKS | FILMS | GEOGRAPHY | HISTORY | INDEX | MONEY | MUSIC In May, 1886, Coca Cola was invented by Doctor John Pemberton a pharmacist from Atlanta, Georgia. John Pemberton concocted the Coca Cola formula in a three legged brass kettle in his backyard. Dr. John Pemberton sold a portion of the Coca-Cola company to Asa Candler, after Pemberton's death the remainder was sold to Candler. Pemberton was forced to sell because he was in a state of poor health and was in debt. He had paid $76.96 for advertising, but he only made $50.00 in profits.
The first Coca-Cola recipe was invented in a drugstore in Columbus, Georgia by John Pemberton, originally as a cocawine called Pemberton's French Wine Coca in 1885. He may h … ave been inspired by the formidable success of Vin Mariani, a European cocawine. Coca Cola was invented in the late 1800's by a pharmacist named John Pemberton in Columbus, Ga. I live here in Columbus, Ga and they still have the house he invented Coca Cola … in downtown in our historci district. I've been to it myself on field trips when I was younger
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink. It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as Coke (a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944). The Coca-Cola Company has, on occasion, introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name. The most common of these is Diet Coke, with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola, Diet Coke Caffeine-Free, Coca-Cola Cherry, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Vanilla, and special versions with lemon, lime, or coffee.