Franchises. Many people find buying a franchise to be an easy way to start a business. Costs range from $1,000 to $5,000 for a direct-marketing home-based franchise. Fast-food restaurants run from $250,000 to more than $1 million. These franchise fees may not cover all expenses, though, and may only be the start of expensive monthly charges. There are no average costs of starting a business because, truly, there are no average businesses. Each has its own opportunities and challenges, which is what makes for competition. The first thing an entrepreneur learns is to conserve cash.
The data include a list of average startup costs for a variety of other industries as well, including: • $27,000 to open a healthcare business. This category includes everything from doctor’s offices to home health aides. • $75,000 to get started in real estate or rentals of real property or equipment. Based on 2007 Census data, 70 percent of entrepreneurs who started or acquired firms reported using less than $25,000 in startup capital. A whopping 44 percent started their businesses with less than $5,000 in the bank. The average startup capital across industries was just under $29,000.
If your business model can scale up to a size that is appropriate for listing as a public company trading on an exchange, your startup costs and funding options change. Most seed-round investors will supply $50,000 to $250,000 for the development phase through launch. There are no average costs of starting a business because, truly, there are no average businesses. Each has its own opportunities and challenges, which is what makes for competition. The first thing an entrepreneur learns is to conserve cash.
Expenses also include initial organizational costs like legal fees, state incorporation fees, etc. You can write off up to $5,000 in business startup costs and another $5,000 in organizational expenses in the year that you start a business. To estimate your startup costs, start by creating two lists – one for your startup expenses and one for your assets. Your list should be informed by the aspects of your business that will have costs associated during the startup phase, such as facility improvements or the equipment and inventory you need.
In 2009, the Kauffmann Foundation estimated that the average start-up cost was approximately $30,000. The truth is that no business is the same and many micro-businesses can get started for as little as $3,000 or less. These businesses are often home-based sole proprietorships with low upfront investments. 
The first time you go through the costs to start up your new business, you don't need to be particularly precise--a rough idea is sufficient. To determine how much you'll need for the first few months of operation, see working capital needs. It takes a lot of time -- and money -- to get a new small business up and running. Make sure you don't overlook any of these expenses, so you can improve your changes for success. It is important to determine how much it will cost you to open your doors for business.
Of course, the answer depends on your business model and your chosen industry. However, a useful estimate based on a 2009 study conducted by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation puts the average cost of starting a new business from scratch at just over $30,000. To estimate your startup costs, start by creating two lists – one for your startup expenses and one for your assets. Your list should be informed by the aspects of your business that will have costs associated during the startup phase, such as facility improvements or the equipment and inventory you need.
These figures closely dovetail with other surveys. Restaurants have some of the best-documented startup costs of any sector. Buying a restaurant franchise costs between $25,000 and $50,000 on the low end, ranging up to well over $1 million for some of the big name fast food chains. Based on 2007 Census data, 70 percent of entrepreneurs who started or acquired firms reported using less than $25,000 in startup capital. A whopping 44 percent started their businesses with less than $5,000 in the bank. The average startup capital across industries was just under $29,000.
That being said, the WSJ cites Babson College statistics that the average startup costs about $65,000. Kauffman Foundation numbers are even higher for industries, including construction, retail and manufacturing, which require average initial investments of $82,000, $98,000 and $175,000 respectively. There are six main categories for business startup costs. 1. The cost of doing business includes all your product inventory, raw materials, manufacturing equipment, shipping services and warehousing.