Cost control is a continuous process that begins with the proposed annual budget. The budget helps: (1) to organize and coordinate production, and the selling, distribution, service, and administrative functions; and (2) to take maximum advantage of available opportunities. Some cost control proponents believe that such strategic cost-cutting must be planned carefully, as not all cost reduction techniques yield the same benefits.
Use cost control in a sentence. Show more usage examples... As the price tag for the new factory began to balloon out of control, Stewart brought in a group of his most loyal employees to perform a cost control analysis of the project. 7 people found this helpful. John was assigned to be responsible for cost control
Cost control and reduction refers to the efforts business managers make to monitor, evaluate, and trim expenditures. These efforts might be part of a formal, company-wide program or might be informal in nature and limited to a single individual or department. Cost control refers to management's effort to influence the actions of individuals who are responsible for performing tasks, incurring costs, and generating revenues. First managers plan the way they want people to perform, then they implement procedures to determine whether actual performance complies with these plans.
Cost control is a continuous process that begins with the annual budget. As the fiscal year progresses, management compares actual results to those projected in the budget and incorporates into the new plan the lessons learned from its evaluation of current operations. Cost control refers to management's effort to influence the actions of individuals who are responsible for performing tasks, incurring costs, and generating revenues. First managers plan the way they want people to perform, then they implement procedures to determine whether actual performance complies with these plans.
1 Ant control is usually included in a general pest control treatment and maintenance program, but specific service for fire ant control can be $10-$50 or more for do-it-yourself efforts or $100-$300 or more for treatments by a pest control company or landscaping service. 1 Mice or rat control can be $200 to $2,000 for removal and cleanup, depending on the extent of the infestation and damages. 2  Costs for professional squirrel eviction and exclusion can total $300-$1,500 or more. 3  Mole or gopher control can cost $50-$
Cost control typically includes (1) investigative procedures to detect variance of actual costs from budgeted costs, (2) diagnostic procedures to ascertain the cause(s) of variance, and (3) corrective procedures to effect realignment between actual and budgeted costs. Show more usage examples... As the price tag for the new factory began to balloon out of control, Stewart brought in a group of his most loyal employees to perform a cost control analysis of the project.
COST CONTROL. Photo by: Ni Chun. Cost control, also known as cost management or cost containment, is a broad set of cost accounting methods and management techniques with the common goal of improving business cost-efficiency by reducing costs, or at least restricting their rate of growth. Some cost control proponents believe that such strategic cost-cutting must be planned carefully, as not all cost reduction techniques yield the same benefits.
DEFINITION of 'Cost Control'. The practice of managing and/or reducing business expenses. Cost controls starts by the businesses identifying what their costs are and evaluate whether those costs are reasonable and affordable. Then, if necessary, they can look for ways to cut costs through methods such as cutting back, moving to a less expensive plan or changing service providers. The cost-control process seeks to manage expenses ranging from phone, internet and utility bills to employee payroll and outside professional services.
Cost control definition and usage. Cost control is a series of steps that a business uses to maintain proper control over its costs. Implementing this level of control can have a profound positive impact on profits over the long term. The following four steps are associated with cost control: 1  Create a baseline. 