Confidence votes 18.5K. What this refers to is a degenerative disk problem at the middle cervical region of your spine. The cervical spine is your neck, from the skull to the base of the neck. The mid-region disks are typically the C5,6 & 7 disks/vertebrae, and they're also the ones most commonly affected by disease. Discovertebral Complex is just a fancy term for saying you've got degeneration in that area
Degenerative disc disease is a disease of aging, an age related disease. Over the years and decades, the repeated daily stresses on the spine and occasional minor, unnoticed injuries, as well as major ones, begin to take their toll. For most people the gradual degeneration of the discs is not a problem. However, in some cases it eventually causes severe, chronic and debilitating discogenic pain. Back specialists refer to pain caused by a damaged intervertebral disc as discogenic pain.
There is a big caveat here. Remember, just because the patient may have cervical degenerative disc disease and degenerative facet disease does not mean they are going to have symptoms of neck pain, arthritis of the neck or other ailments such as a slipped disc. 
By Michael Perry, M.D. Degenerative disc disease isn’t usually isolated to one or two vertebral levels. Degenerative disc disease is the gradual deterioration and thinning of the shock-absorbing intervertebral discs, and often, the deterioration can be seen throughout the spine. 
Lumbar degenerative disc disease refers to the symptoms of lower back pain and/or radiating pain, numbness or weakness in the legs stemming from a degenerated spinal disc. Treatment for Degenerative Disc Disease Video. Learn about degenerative disc disease and how it is treated in this informative video. 
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2009). Degeneration of one or more intervertebral disc (s) of the spine, often called  degenerative disc disease  (DDD) or  degenerative disc disorder,  is a pathologic process of uncertain etiology that may cause acute or chronic low back pain. Degenerative disc disease can lead to a chronic debilitating condition and can have a serious negative impact on a person's quality of life. When pain from degenerative disc disease is severe, traditional nonoperative treatment may be ineffective.
Cervical disc disease goes beyond just a pain in the neck, though. A degenerative process can cause radiating pain, as well as numbness and weakness in your shoulders, arm, and hand. That discomfort and loss of mobility can have a major impact on your career, family, and quality of life. The most common and obvious symptoms of cervical degenerative disc disease are neck pain and a stiff neck. When one of these conditions presses on one or more of the many nerves running through the spinal cord, you also can develop pain, numbness, or weakness radiating down your shoulder, arm, and hand. 1 | 2 | 3.
My doctor says I have degenerative changes in my spine. Yes. The phrase degenerative changes in the spine refers to osteoarthritis of the spine. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. Doctors may also refer to it as degenerative arthritis or degenerative joint disease. Osteoarthritis in the spine most commonly occurs in the neck and lower back. With age, the soft disks that act as cushions between the spine's vertebrae dry out and shrink. 
Face. 1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Degenerative: Basically refers to degenerative (aging) changes of the spine. Disk/ osteophyte refers to bone spur and/or disc protrusion, and facet /uncovertebral hypertrophy refers to arthritis of the joints at the back part (facets) and sides (uncovertebral) of the vertebrae. 