Introduction to the organs involved in the respiratory system. The respiratory system consists of a set of organs that help in breathing of air in and out of the body. They provide a passage way for air to flow in and out of the body. Thus, the air which we breath in contains more Oxygen while the air which we breath out contains more of Carbon di oxide. The main respiratory organs are as follows:-. 1  Nose. 2  Pharynx. 3  Larynx. 4  Trachea. 5  Bronchi. 6  Lungs.
The respiratory system (called also respiratory apparatus, ventilatory system) is a biological system consisting of specific organs and structures used for the process of respiration in an organism. In humans and other mammals, the anatomical features of the respiratory system include trachea, bronchi, bronchioles, lungs, and diaphragm. Molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are passively exchanged, by diffusion, between the gaseous external environment and the blood.
The respiratory system is involved in the intake and exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between an organism and the environment. In air-breathing vertebrates like human beings, respiration takes place in the respiratory organs called lungs. In humans and other mammals, the anatomical features of the respiratory system include trachea, bronchi, bronchioles, lungs, and diaphragm. Molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are passively exchanged, by diffusion, between the gaseous external environment and the blood.
Functions of Organs in Respiratory System. Respiration begins when oxygen enters into the body through the nose and the mouth. The oxygen then travels through the trachea and pharynx where the trachea divides into two bronchi. The primary function of the respiratory system is to allow the lungs to take in atmospheric oxygen through inhalation and dispose of the waste products the body does not need through exhalation. Inhalation is an active motion that causes the diaphragm to contract
Respiratory System. Several organs of the respiratory system are responsible for the process of breathing. The nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs work together to allow gas exchange to occur at the cellular level. The primary function of the respiratory system is to allow the lungs to take in atmospheric oxygen through inhalation and dispose of the waste products the body does not need through exhalation. Inhalation is an active motion that causes the diaphragm to contract
The human respiratory system is a series of organs responsible for taking in oxygen and expelling carbon dioxide. The primary organs of the respiratory system are lungs, which carry out this exchange of gases as we breathe. Red blood cells collect the oxygen from the lungs and carry it to the parts of the body where it is needed, according to the American Lung Association.
Advertisement. The main function of respiratory system is to allow gas exchange (oxygen and carbon dioxide) with different parts of the body. The different organs of the respiratory system are nose, pharynx, epiglottis, larynx, trachea, bronchi and lungs. These organs carry out the process of respiration. The different organs of the respiratory system such as nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, etc. carry out the process of respiration/breathing. All these organs play an important role in supplying oxygen to the body and allowing its smooth functioning.
the system of organs and tissues involved in drawing oxygen into the body and removing carbon dioxide: in mammals, includes the nasal cavity, pharynx, trachea, bronchi, lungs, and the diaphragm. 