Indian names or Hindu names are listed in Our Baby Namer under Indian, Hindi and Sanskrit. Other names which may be used my Muslim Indians would be listed under Arabic or Iranian names. Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit. Given names derive from a number of sources including religion, nature, family names, and sanskrit vocabulary words. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Sarisha Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sarisha has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sarisha to other names.
List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Yes, the breathing rate of the new born baby is faster than that of an adult. The new born babies breathe for about 40 times per minute. This is around 2 times faster rate
Here are pictures of people with the name Trisha. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Name Srisha generally means Flower, is of Indian origin, Name Srisha is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Srisha are mainly Hindu by religion. Find qualities of Aquarius (Kumbh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Srisha or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kumbh (Aquarius) with other zodiac signs.
Sasha /sa-sha/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less regularly as boys' name Sasha) is pronounced SAH-shah. It is of Russian and Greek origin, and the meaning of Sasha is man's defender. Short form of Alexander. The-sha ending may not be feminine in Russia, though it is in America. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Sasha for girls. Sasha was first listed in 1970-1979 and reached its peak rank of #199 in the U.S. in the year 1990, and is currently at #569. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Sirisha name meaning, Meanings and Origins of Sirisha, baby name list, popular baby name. This Free Indian astrology website provide you Astrology and Horoscopes predictions based Indian Astrology, Vedic Astrology, Hindu Astrology along with Numerology Report, Name Correction, Business name Correction.
Your Astrologer Kamal Krish Kapoor. This Free Indian astrology website provide you Astrology and Horoscopes predictions based Indian Astrology, Vedic Astrology, Hindu Astrology along with Numerology Report, Name Correction, Business name Correction.
Meaning of Indian name: Sirisha. Meaning of the name Sirisha is 'Sacred'. Sirisha is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Sirisha is '2'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Sirisha'