Geography Facts about India. Following are the Geography Facts about India. 1  The Union of India is the seventh largest country in the world covering an area of 32,87,590 square kilometers and it is an important country of south Asia. 2  South Asia has a total area of about 4.488 million sq. km out of which India has the largest area (3.287 sq. km). 1 The Union of India is the seventh largest country in the world covering an area of 32,87,590 square kilometers and it is an important country of south Asia. 2  South Asia has a total area of about 4.488 million sq. km out of which India has the largest area (3.287 sq. km). 3  It occupies 73.2 % of total area.
India lies largely on the Indian Plate, the northern portion of the Indo-Australian Plate, whose continental crust forms the Indian subcontinent. The country is situated north of the equator between 8°4' and 37°6' north latitude and 68°7' and 97°25' east longitude. India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands, some 1,200 kilometres (750 mi) southeast of the mainland, share maritime borders with Myanmar, Thailand and Indonesia. Kanyakumari at 8°4′41″N and 77°32′28″E is the southernmost tip of the Indian mainland, while the southernmost point in India is Indira Point on Great Nicobar Island.
It is the seventh-largest country in the world, with a total area of 3,166,414 square kilometres (1,222,559 sq mi). India measures 3,214 km (1,997 mi) from north to south and 2,933 km (1,822 mi) from east to west. India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands, some 1,200 kilometres (750 mi) southeast of the mainland, share maritime borders with Myanmar, Thailand and Indonesia. Kanyakumari at 8°4′41″N and 77°32′28″E is the southernmost tip of the Indian mainland, while the southernmost point in India is Indira Point on Great Nicobar Island.
India is a land of many varied geographical formations. It has mountains and deserts. It has some of the world's greatest rivers. It has fruitful plains and rainforests. In short, India has almost every type of geography you can think of. 
Ancient India Geography There were two distinct civilizations that existed in ancient India, one was the Indus valley civilization that flourished till 2500 BC and the other was the Gangetic valley civilization that began with the coming of the Aryans and its settlement beginning from 1500 BC. 
The state is blessed with Himalayas on the north west and north east. The state is bounded by the Indian Ocean, the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. The state has well defined geographical and geological unit. India's Physical Geography. Geographically, India is as vast as it is varied. Physical Features of Indian Land comprises of Indian mountains, rivers, desert, flora an fauna, plains and much more. The coastline of Indian sub-continent adds up to over 6,000km, and if you were to take into account the islands as well, the figure would be somewhat close to 7,500km.
In terms of its population, India is one of the most populous nations in the world and falls slightly behind China. India has a long history and is considered the world's largest democracy and one of the most successful in Asia. The geography of India is diverse and can be divided into three main regions. The first is the rugged, mountainous Himalayan region in the northern part of the country, while the second is called the Indo-Gangetic Plain. It is in this region that most of India's large-scale agriculture takes place.
Indian Flag. Map of India. GEOGRAPHY. India is part of the continent of Asia. Most of India forms a peninsula, which means it is surrounded by water on three sides. The world's highest mountain range, the Himalaya, rises in the north. The southeast is bordered by the Bay of Bengal, and the southwest is bordered by the Arabian Sea
Geography of India. The geographical location of any place is important for understanding the history, economy, art and culture, natural vegetation, climatic conditions prevailing and the food habits of the country. On the globe, India lies entirely in the northern hemisphere, and southern part of the continent of Asia.