The Congo River (also known as the Zaire River; French : (le) fleuve Congo / Zaire; Zaïre: portuguese Rio / Congo) zaire is a river In. Africa it is the second largest river in the world by (discharge after The), amazon and the'world s deepest river with measured depths in excess of 220 (m 720). ft The river also has the second-largest flow in the world, behind the Amazon; the third-largest drainage basin of any river, behind the Amazon and Plate rivers; and is one of the deepest rivers in the world, at depths greater than 220 m (720 ft).
gmackematix. There are several rivers that cross the Equator so correctly answer the question as asked. If you mean which river flows both northwards and southwards over the Equator, then that narrows it down. As far as I know, the Congo is the only river that crosses the Equator twice in this fashion. 
Report Abuse. It is not the Nile that crosses the equator only once or the Yellow, Mississippi, Red, Ohio or Wabash that do not cross the equator. I would take a stab and say the Amazon and that is probably the wrong answer but it is situated right. That is my answer and I am sticking to it! +1 to Warren S. I learned something new today, man I love yahoo answers. Here is the wiki article and an excerpt about the Congo River....Because large sections of the river basin lie above and below the Equator..... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Congo_river.
Congo River flows through these countries-Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola, Burundi, Tanzania, Cameroon, Republic of the Congo, Zambia, Gabon, and Rwanda. The river ranks as the … ninth longest river in the world with its overall length of 4,700 km. The famous Boyoma Falls or Stanley Falls is in Congo River. The Chambeshi River in Zambia is regarded as the source of the
Congo River, also known as Zaire River, crosses the equator twice. Congo River is the deepest river in the world and the second longest river in Africa. The river ranks as the … ninth longest river in the world with its overall length of 4,700 km. The famous Boyoma Falls or Stanley Falls is in Congo River. The Chambeshi River in Zambia is regarded as the source of the Congo River. Congo River flows through these countries-Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola, Burundi, Tanzania, Cameroon, Republic of the Congo, Zambia, Gabon, and Rwanda.
Congo River Crosses Equator Twice. Congo River, also known as Zaire River, crosses the equator twice. Congo River is the deepest river in the world and the second longest river in Africa. The river ranks as the ninth longest river in the world with its overall length of 4,700 km. The famous Boyoma Falls or Stanley Falls is in Congo River. The Chambeshi River in Zambia is regarded as the source of the Congo River.
Congo River, also known as Zaire River, crosses the equator twice. Congo River is the deepest river in the world and the second longest river in Africa. The river ranks as the … ninth longest river in the world with its overall length of 4,700 km. The famous Boyoma Falls or Stanley Falls is in Congo River. The Chambeshi River in Zambia is regarded as the source of the Congo River.
It is the second largest river in the world by discharge (after the Amazon), and the world's deepest river with measured depths in excess of 220 m (720 ft). The river also has the second-largest flow in the world, behind the Amazon; the third-largest drainage basin of any river, behind the Amazon and Plate rivers; and is one of the deepest rivers in the world, at depths greater than