WW2 German Dagger-We Buy German Daggers added 22 new photos to the album: WWII German Shooting Association Dagger with Stag Grip — at WW2 German Dagger-We Buy German Daggers. Fantastic and rare example of a German Shooting Association Dagger with a Stag Grip. This one is an Eickhorn Dagger. WW2 German Dagger-We Buy German Daggers added 28 new photos to the album: WW2 German Dagger by E&F Horster — at WW2 German Dagger-We Buy German Daggers. Nice example of a WW2 German Army Dagger by E&F Horster.
You ve come to the right spot! We buy all kinds of German, Third Reich, Nazi, WWII items. We Buy: Daggers, Swords, Medals, Flags, Helmets, Belt Buckles, Uniforms, Documents and much much more! We strive to make it simple and easy for you to turn your items into cash fast! Ebay was a place to sell German Militaria ten years ago. Today Ebay policy is to disallow Items that bear symbols of the Nazis, the SS, or the KKK, including authentic German WWII memorabilia that bear such marks.
The answer is in most cases, no. Ebay was a place to sell German Militaria ten years ago. Today Ebay policy is to disallow Items that bear symbols of the Nazis, the SS, or the KKK, including authentic German WWII memorabilia that bear such marks.
I am a passionate German sword buyer, German dagger buyer and general military collectibles enthusiast, I have been collecting militaria for the past 25 years, the whole time being an interesting learning experience. If you have something that you might wish to sell, I can provide free advice with professionalism, honesty and discretion assured. All genuine WW1/WW2/German Army, Luftwaffe, Kriegsmarine, SS, Police Swords wanted! All genuine WW1/WW2 German Army, Luftwaffe, Kriegsmarine, SA, SS, DLV, NSKK, TENO, DRK daggers wanted!
Some of the more common of these German Collectibles are the; German Army Dagger (aka Heer Dagger), Luftwaffe Dagger (aka Air Force Dagger), Navy Dagger (aka Kriegsmarine Dagger), and the Hitler Youth Dagger (aka HJ Dagger). There is also the ever popular Nazi SS Dagger. A very nice WW2 German Dagger, this Heer Officer Dagger bears the Carl Eickhorn Solingen maker mark on the blade. The blade measures 10.25”, and is the traditional stiletto style with flat central ridge. Total length (including the hilt) is approximately 14.5.
“alles fur deutschland” dagger values Warning! The Selling Of NAZI Daggers has been stopped on Ebay and other internet sites. Alles Fur Deutschland SA We at German Dagger buyers aim to provide the finest service for families of WW2 veterans wishing to obtain the correct market value for... Posted by admin on Aug 23, 2012 in Selling WW2 Daggers | 0 comments. We only require genuine WW1 and WW2... Posted by admin on Aug 16, 2012 in alles fur deutschland dagger values, Free valuations of Militaria, German Militaria, Selling Knives On Ebay, Selling WW2 Daggers, types of German daggers, Uncategorized, We Buy Medals, We Buy Navy Daggers | 0 comments.
We buy German swords from all periods and specialize in World War II items. We can buy your item as we are always looking for your type German militaria. If you have a German sword for sale, please contact me today. I look forward to helping you with all your German militaria selling item needs. Selling your German sword is quite easy. Simply send us a message through the site with what items you are looking to sell. I will contact you to go over your items and answer any questions you may have.