The sloth is the world's slowest mammal, so sedentary that algae grows on its furry coat. The plant gives it a greenish tint that is useful camouflage in the trees of its Central and South American rain forest home. Sloths are identified by the number of long, prominent claws that they have on each front foot.
Sloths are extremely slow-moving mammals found in the rainforest canopies of Central and South America. There are two species of sloths:two-toed and three-toed. Most sloths are about the size of a small dog and they have short, flat flat heads. Their hair is grayish brown but, at times they look grey-green in color because they move so slowly that tiny camouflaging algae grow all over their coats.
Sloth Facts. Sloth is a type of weird-looking mammal characterized by slow movement in the trees. There are five subspecies of sloths that can be divided in two major groups: two-toed and three-toed sloths. All sloths live in the Central and South America. They prefer life in dense tropical and subtropical rainforests.
Habitat. Though their ancestors lived in North America, modern sloths live in Central and South America, enjoying the tall trees found in rain and cloud forests. Sloths prefer sleeping while curled into a ball in the fork of a tropical tree.
The two-toed sloth is slightly bigger than the three-toed sloth, though they share many of the same features. They are about the size of a medium-sized dog at around 23 to 27 inches (58 to 68 cm) and 17.5 to 18.75 pounds (about 8 kilograms).
The sloth family divides into the three-toed species and the two-toed species. All sloths have three toes on their hind feet, but the two types of sloths take their name from the number of toes on their front feet. Sloths are arboreal, with their natural habitat always being a tree of some sort in a rainforest setting.
Habitat: The three-toed sloth is an arboreal animal, inhabiting the tropical forests of Central and South America. Their algae-covered fur helps camouflage the sloth in its forest environment. Sloths spend nearly all of their time in trees, descending to the ground only once a week to defecate.