Streptococcus pyogenes possesses a wide variety of virulence factors and can cause severe invasive infections. Most S. pyogenes express surface-located fibronectin-binding proteins as major invasion molecules. 1. Group A Streptococcus pyogenes is an important gram-positive bacterial pathogen that causes a wide variety of clinical conditions, ranging from pharyngitis to severe invasive infections and necrotizing fasciitis. The reported lethality of severe S. pyogenes infections is high, ranging from 10%–30% [1] .
Streptococcus is a genus of coccus (spherical) gram-positive bacteria belonging to the phylum Firmicutes and the Lactobacillales (lactic acid bacteria) order. The most common of these infections include streptococcal pharyngitis (strep throat) and impetigo. Scarlet fever is also a noninvasive infection, but has not been as common in recent years. The invasive infections caused by group A β-hemolytic streptococci tend to be more severe and less common.
Susceptible Hosts The infectious agent in strep throat is streptococcus which is a bacteria, it is classified as a cocci. Which means it is round in shape. It is divided into eighteen alphabetized groups, called Lancefield groups. Streptococcus is in Group A of Lancefield groups. 
by Robert Ballough. Life History Streptococcus pneumoniae is found worldwide. The common host is the human body, in which it often does not cause disease but at other times it can cause diseses in particular, pneumonia. It also causes otitis media, bacteremia, meningitis, peritonitis, and sinusitis.
Streptococcus pyogenes is one of the gram-positive cocci in chains overlap. The cell walls of streptococcal cells has some interesting features. The high content of peptidoglycan (murein layer) of carbohydrate (C polysaccharide) gives the cells a very strong structure. The C-polysaccharide antigen is effective. 
Strep throat is a contagious disease caused by infection with streptococcal bacteria, which causes inflammation and swelling of the mucous membranes lining the back of the throat and the tonsils. Patient Comments Read 11 Comments Share Your Story. Strep throat is caused by infection with Group A Streptococcus (GAS) bacteria, specifically Streptococcus pyogenes. The streptococcal infection invades the pharyngeal tissue and causes a localized inflammatory reaction of the throat and tonsils.
Strep throat is a bacterial infection in the throat and the tonsils. The throat gets irritated and inflamed, causing a sudden, severe sore throat. Strep throat is caused by streptococcal (strep) bacteria. There are many different types of strep bacteria. Some cause more serious illness than others. 
Streptococcus pyogenes is a species of bacteria. Like most other streptococci, it is clinically important in human illness. It is an infrequent, but usually pathogenic, part of the skin flora. It is the sole species of Lancefield group A and is often called group A streptococcus (GAS), because it displays streptococcal group A antigen on its cell wall.