conformity. n, pl-ities or-ances. 1. compliance in actions, behaviour, etc, with certain accepted standards or norms. 2. correspondence or likeness in form or appearance; congruity; agreement. 3. (Ecclesiastical Terms) compliance with the practices of an established church.ompare unconformity (def. 2). usage: Senses of conformity involving obedience generally take to (conformity to fire regulations); those involving agreement or correspondence, with (an idea in conformity with earlier notions).
Conformity can occur in the presence of others, or when an individual is alone. For example, people tend to follow social norms when eating or watching television, even when alone. People often conform from a desire for security within a group—typically a group of a similar age, culture, religion, or educational status.onformity influences formation and maintenance of social norms, and helps societies function smoothly and predictably via the self-elimination of behaviors seen as contrary to unwritten rules. In this sense it can be perceived as a positive force that prevents acts that are perceptually disruptive or dangerous.
In summary, social conformity is a type of social influence that results in a change of behavior or belief in order to fit in with a group. The two types of social conformity are normative conformity and informational conformity. Normative conformity occurs because of the desire to be liked and accepted. Peer pressure is a classic example of normative conformity. On the other hand, informational conformity occurs because of the desire to be correct.
As conformity is a group phenomenon, factors such as group size, unanimity, cohesion, status, prior commitment and public opinion help determine the level of conformity an individual displays.onformity influences formation and maintenance of social norms, and helps societies function smoothly and predictably via the self-elimination of behaviors seen as contrary to unwritten rules. In this sense it can be perceived as a positive force that prevents acts that are perceptually disruptive or dangerous.
Conformity is the act of matching attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors to group norms. Norms are implicit, unsaid rules, shared by a group of individuals, that guide their interactions with others.onformity influences formation and maintenance of social norms, and helps societies function smoothly and predictably via the self-elimination of behaviors seen as contrary to unwritten rules. In this sense it can be perceived as a positive force that prevents acts that are perceptually disruptive or dangerous.
Compare unconformity (def. 2). usage: Senses of conformity involving obedience generally take to (conformity to fire regulations); those involving agreement or correspondence, with (an idea in conformity with earlier notions).
2. The act of conforming; the act of producing suitableness, or conformity; with to; as the conformation of our hearts and lives to the duties of true religion. 3. In medical science, the particular make or construction of the body peculiar to an individual; as a good or bad conformation.
: behavior that is the same as the behavior of most other people in a society, group, etc. : the fact or state of agreeing with or obeying something.
conformity. Conformity is the act of 'blending in with the crowd' or emulating the actions of another individual, group, or belief system. Conformity can be linked to a fear of rejection or the presence of apathy in a person. For instance, in a school-system, different social sects will conform to a certain style of clothing or behavior in order to fit in with a certain group. Conformity is also a part of conversation. In our daily lives, we will consistently conform to the opinions and ideas of other people
In conformity with the Act of Congress of the United States entitled, An Act for the encouragement of Learning, by securing the copies of Maps, Charts, and Books, to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the times herein mentioned.ompare unconformity (def. 2). usage: Senses of conformity involving obedience generally take to (conformity to fire regulations); those involving agreement or correspondence, with (an idea in conformity with earlier notions).