How Does A Cnc Plasma Cutter Work. bolo / September 19th, 2011 / 1 Comment ». Plasma exists only at quite high temperatures and is utilized by plasma cutting systems to cut electrically-conductive metals quite neatly and very swiftly. A CNC Plasma Cutter adds specialized software that controls and directs the plasma cutting torch with speed, accuracy, efficiency and repeatability. 
Learn how plasma cutting works in this second video. See the air and arc pass through a torch to make a precision cut. Visit http://www.millerwelds.com/products/p... to see Miller Electric's entire line of plasma cutting products. Miller Electric also has extensive welding educational material at http://www.millerwelds.com/education/.
Plasma cutting grew out of plasma welding in the 1960s, and emerged as a very productive way to cut sheet metal and plate in the 1980s. It had the advantages over traditional metal against metal cutting of producing no metal chips, giving accurate cuts, and producing a cleaner edge than oxy-fuel cutting. The basic plasma cutting process involves creating an electrical channel of ionized gas i.e. plasma from the plasma cutter itself, through the work piece to be cut, thus forming a completed electric circuit back to the plasma cutter via a grounding clamp.
There are monstrous plasma cutters that use robotic arms to make precise incisions. There are also compact, handheld units that you might find in a handyman's shop. Regardless of size, all plasma cutters function on the same principle and are constructed around roughly the same design. Plasma cutters work by sending a pressurized gas, such as nitrogen, argon, or oxygen, through a small channel. In the center of this channel, you'll find a negatively charged electrode. When you apply power to the negative electrode, and you touch the tip of the nozzle to the metal, the connection creates a circuit. The cycle of creating the arc is continuous as long as power is supplied to the electrode and the plasma stays in contact with the metal that is being cut. In order to ensure this contact, protect the cut from oxidation and regulate the unpredictable nature of plasma, the cutter nozzle has a second set of channels.
This is a simple diagram of a standard plasma cutter and as you can see, the electrode torch is negatively charged in nature and through the power supply, it generates an electric arc into the channel filled with cutting gas. 
CONTACT. Plasma cutter history How they work Selecting a plasma cutter CNC plasma cutting Sample cuts Plasma vs High Density Plasma vs Laser Links to related sites Hypertherm plasma cutters View Torchmate Catalog Manufactured by: Torchmate Inc. ; While these parts are all referred to as consumables, it is the electrode and nozzle that wear and require periodic replacement. Plasma cutter history How they work Selecting a plasma cutter CNC plasma cutting Sample cuts Plasma vs High Density Plasma vs Laser Links to related sites Hypertherm plasma cutters. View Torchmate Catalog.
Plasma cutting performed by an industrial robot. Plasma cutting is a process that cuts through electrically conductive materials by means of an accelerated jet of hot plasma. Typical materials cut by this process include steel, aluminum, brass and copper though other conductive metals may be cut as well. The basic plasma cutting process involves creating an electrical channel of ionized gas i.e. plasma from the plasma cutter itself, through the work piece to be cut, thus forming a completed electric circuit back to the plasma cutter via a grounding clamp.
In simplest terms, plasma cutting is a process that uses a high velocity jet of ionized gas that is delivered from a constricting orifice. The high velocity ionized gas, that is, the plasma, conducts electricity from the torch of the plasma cutter to the work piece. The plasma heats the workpiece, melting the material. The high velocity stream of ionized gas mechanically blows the molten metal away, severing the material.