Yttrium, a very versatile element, is utilized for a variety of purposes that affect everyday life. To begin with, yttrium is commonly used in laser systems, used in surgeries, weapons, and measuring tools. Yttrium oxide is probably one of the most useful compounds of yttrium and is responsible for its most common uses.
Yttrium is a soft, silvery metal. Yttrium usually exists as a trivalent ion, Y 3+ , in its compounds. Most of its compounds are colorless. Yttrium’s properties are very similar to those of the rare earth elements of the lanthanide series.
Overview. Yttrium is one of four elements named for the same small town of Ytterby, Sweden. The other three elements are erbium, terbium, and ytterbium. The element was discovered in 1794 by Finnish chemist Johan Gadolin (1760-1852).
Yttrium also has several uses in the scientific field. For example, the yttrium iron garnet is used as a transmitter of acoustic energy. In addition to this, small amounts of yttrium (0.1 to 0.2%) are used to reduce the grain size in the elements chromium, molybdenum, zirconium, and titanium.
Yttrium, a rare earth metal, has a silver-grey color and metallic luster. It also appears highly crystalline. Yttrium displays chemical properties similar to those of rare earth elements. It dissolves in both mineral acids and alkalis, which are chemical opposites of one another.
Yttrium is a transition metal. Transition metals are those elements in Groups 3 through 12 of the periodic table. The periodic table is a chart that shows how chemical elements are related to each other. The element above yttrium in the periodic table is scandium.
Separating the two rare earth elements is a complicated process. Professor Tom Van Gerven from the Department of Chemical Engineering explains: The traditional method dissolves europium and yttrium in aqueous acid.
Yttrium has an exceptionally high affinity for oxygen, with a free energy of formation for the oxide of 1817 kJ mol -1, probably the greatest of any element. Yttrium also dissolves oxygen gas in relatively high concentrations.
The equipment typically used for this examination consists of a radiographic table, one or two x-ray tubesand a television-like monitor that is located in the examining room. Fluoroscopy, which converts x-raysinto video images, is used to watch and guide progress of the procedure.