Causes. Bacteria are the primary organisms that cause UTIs. Most common bacteria that cause UTIs include: Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus saprophyticus. About 80-90% of urinary tract infections are caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli).
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis.
Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the
1 This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 2  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 3  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it.
Escherichia coli. The most common strain of bacteria found in urinary tract infections is the ubiquitous Escherichia coli (E. coli). E. coli is a gram-negative bacteria, shaped like a rod. Escherichia coli is usually found in the lower intestine of humans and present in fecal matter. Most urinary infections are caused by inadvertent transfer of fecal matter into the urethra. The E.coli present in the fecal matter, and then infect the urinary tract.
1 About 80 to 90 percent of UTI are caused by one type of bacteria. 2  Women develop UTI much more often than men. 3  20% of women in the United States develop this condition and 20% of those have a recurrence. 4  Urinary tract infection is less common in men and boys than in women and girls but is more likely to be serious.
1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 4  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it.