The primary functions of chromatin are 1) to package DNA into a smaller volume to fit in the cell, 2) to reinforce the DNA macromolecule to allow mitosis, 3) to prevent DNA damage, and 4) to control gene expression and DNA replication. Chromatin is only found in eukaryotic cells (cells with defined nuclei). Prokaryotic cells have a different organization of their DNA (the prokaryotic chromosome equivalent is called genophore and is localized within the nucleoid region). The structure of chromatin depends on several factors.
In the nucleus, the DNA double helix is packaged by special proteins (histones) to form a complex called chromatin. The chromatin undergoes further condensation to form the chromosome. So while the chromatin is a lower order of DNA organization, chromosomes are the higher order of DNA organization. Composed of nucleosomes-a complex of DNA and proteins (called histones). Represent DNA folded on nucleoproteins by a magnitude of 50. The chromatin fiber is app. 10 nm in diameter.
Report Abuse. 1. DNA. chromatin is just the DNA without histone proteins. chromosome is DNA with proteins. that is why one cannot view chromatin with a light microscope but can see chromosomes: the proteins bundle the DNA together. chromatin does not have histones. Tonman · 6 years ago.
Definition: Mass of genetic material composed of DNA and proteins that condense to form chromosomes during eukaryotic cell division. Chromatin is located in the nucleus of a cell. 
chromatin. the substance of the chromosomes, composed of nucleic acids and basic proteins (histones), the material in the nucleus that stains with basic dyes. sex chromatin. Barr body; the persistent mass of the material of the inactivated X chromosome in cells of normal females. See also drumstick. chromatin. the substance of the chromosomes, composed of DNA and basic proteins (histones), the material in the nucleus that stains with basic dyes. sex chromatin the persistent mass of the material of the inactivated X chromosome in cells of normal females; called also Barr body. (krō'ma-tin),
Chromatin are the complex of DNA and proteins that makes up a eukaryotic chromosome. When the cell is not dividing, chromatin exists in its dispersed form, as a mass of very l … ong, thin fibers that are not visible with a light microscope. Easier Definition Mass of genetic material composed of DNA and proteins that condense to form chromosomes in eukaryotic cell division. Chromatin is located in the cell's nucleus. It contains information that controls metabolism and heredity.
Best Answer: 3) DNA and Protein Chromatin is the term given to the DNA-histone protein complex. Histones are proteins that function to help condense DNA down to a size that can be fit into a cells nucleus. 1. DNA. chromatin is just the DNA without histone proteins. chromosome is DNA with proteins. that is why one cannot view chromatin with a light microscope but can see chromosomes: the proteins bundle the DNA together. chromatin does not have histones. Tonman · 6 years ago.
Chromatin is a complex of DNA and proteins that forms chromosomes within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Nuclear DNA does not appear in free linear strands; it is highly condensed and wrapped around nuclear proteins in order to fit inside the nucleus. Chromatin exists in two forms. chromatin. Chromatin is a complex of DNA and proteins that forms chromosomes within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Nuclear DNA does not appear in free linear strands; it is highly condensed and wrapped around nuclear proteins in order to fit inside the nucleus. Chromatin exists in two forms. One form, called euchromatin, is less condensed and ...