Those creatures would be bacteria. That means that one bacterium is even smaller than a grain of salt, or the tip of a pin! If you could get a look at different types of bacteria, you would find out that they come in all shapes. Some are shaped like balls, others commas, while others are long and thin like a stick. Germs also need a certain environment in order to survive. And to some germs, the best place to be is inside the human body. Others thrive on our skin, or even just inside our mouths. Germs look for what they need to live. One important thing to remember is that not all microbes are bad.
Germs are everywhere we go! You need to know what these little guys look like and where they live to keep healthy! It is important for you to know how these germs get into your body and what they do. Get your detective hat and microscope ready because you are about to become an expert on these tiny organisms. Use this site to find out about some ways that germs are helpful to humans. Infection Detection. When you have finished your worksheet look at the information on this site and play some of the games to learn a bit more than you already know. Microbe Zoo. This is another fun site to learn more about microbes.
Tags: There are thousands of species of bacteria, but all of them are basically one of three different shapes. Some are rod-or stick-shaped and called bacilli (buh-sill-eye) . Others are shaped like little balls and called cocci (cox-eye) . Bacteria like mycoplasmas that lack a hard cell wall don’t have any particular shape at all. Just like in animals, where size ranges from the giant blue whale to the tiny gnat, bacteria vary from 1 millimeter in diameter at the largest end of the scale to 20 nanometers in length at the smallest.
Protozoa. Protozoa, like bacteria, are extremely small. Of the 20,000 different types of protozoa, most live in water, oceans, lakes, rivers, and ponds. If you were to look at a drop of water from one of these places under a microscope, you would see tiny protozoa whipping their tails around to move. Germs also need a certain environment in order to survive. And to some germs, the best place to be is inside the human body. Others thrive on our skin, or even just inside our mouths. Germs look for what they need to live. One important thing to remember is that not all microbes are bad.
What They Look Like. Tags: There are thousands of species of bacteria, but all of them are basically one of three different shapes. Some are rod-or stick-shaped and called bacilli (buh-sill-eye) . Others are shaped like little balls and called cocci (cox-eye) .
Vibrio. Vibrios are one of three types of bacteria with a spiral-like shape. Vibrios are comma-shaped bacteria that look like a curved rod. They typically live in aquatic environments. Vibrio cholera moves in a darting motion by a single flagellum, a whiplike structure, and is the bacteria that causes cholera. 
Some bacteria are photosynthetic (foe-toe-sin-theh-tick) —they can make their own food from sunlight, just like plants. Also like plants, they give off oxygen. Other bacteria absorb food from the material they live on or in. Some of these bacteria can live off unusual foods such as iron or sulfur. The microbes that live in your gut absorb nutrients from the digested food you've eaten. There are thousands of species of bacteria, but all of them are basically one of three different shapes. Some are rod-or stick-shaped and called bacilli (buh-sill-eye) . Others are shaped like little balls and called cocci (cox-eye) .
Bacteria. Bacteria are one-celled organisms visible only with a microscope. They're so small that if you lined up a thousand of them end to end, they could fit across the end of a pencil eraser. Not all bacteria are harmful, and some bacteria that live in your body are helpful. For instance, Lactobacillus acidophilus — a harmless bacterium that resides in your intestines — helps you digest food, destroys some disease-causing organisms and provides nutrients. Understanding infection vs. disease. There's a difference between infection and disease. Infection, often the first step, occurs when bacteria, viruses or other microbes that cause disease enter your body and begin to multiply.
Germs. Germs are very small organisms, or living things, that can cause people to get sick. They can cause you to get a stomach ache or get an infection in a cut on your hand. 
Fungi. Fungi are kind of like plants and are made up of many cells. You've heard of mushrooms and yeast. These are types of fungi. The reason that fungi are not called plants is because they cannot produce their own food from soil, water and sun, like green leafy plants (plants can photosynthesize). Germs also need a certain environment in order to survive. And to some germs, the best place to be is inside the human body. Others thrive on our skin, or even just inside our mouths. Germs look for what they need to live. One important thing to remember is that not all microbes are bad.