The action potential is an electrical event occurring when a stimulus of sufficient intensity is applied to a neuron or muscle cell, allowing sodium to move into the cell and reverse the polarity.
I. An action potential is a momentary change in the membrane potential caused by a transient change in the membrane's permeability to sodium and potassium. A. It can be observed with an oscilloscope that monitors the electrical potential (or voltage) recorded by a microelectrode inserted into a cell. Figure 1.
An action potential (or nerve impulse) is a transient alteration of the transmembrane voltage (or membrane potential) across an excitable membrane in an excitable cell (such as a neuron or myocyte) generated by the activity of voltage-gated ion channels embedded in the membrane.
Action potential. Definition. noun. A short-term change in the electrical potential on the surface of a cell (e.g. a nerve cell or muscle cell) in response to stimulation, and then leads to the transmission of an electrical impulse (nerve impulse) that travels across the cell membrane.
The resting potential tells about what happens when a neuron is at rest. An action potential occurs when a neuron sends information down an axon, away from the cell body. Neuroscientists use other words, such as a spike or an impulse for the action potential.
Medical Definition of ACTION POTENTIAL. : a momentary reversal in the potential difference across a plasma membrane (as of a nerve cell or muscle fiber) that occurs when a cell has been activated by a stimulus—called also spike potential; compare resting potential; see afterpotential, generator potential, prepotential.
An action potential can also be called a nerve impulse which is known to be stimulated by an external stimuli or upon internal excitation. This action potential travels through a neuron and involves charged ions (the key ones are sodium ions and potassium ions) that cross the membrane barrier of the neuron.
Definition of ACTION POTENTIAL. : a momentary reversal in electrical potential across a plasma membrane (as of a neuron or muscle fiber) that occurs when a cell has been activated by a stimulus. ADVERTISEMENT.
As an action potential travels down the axon, there is a change in polarity across the membrane. The Na + and K + gated ion channels open and close as the membrane reaches the threshold potential, in response to a signal from another neuron.