The Soviet Union formed this alliance as a counterbalance to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) , a collective security alliance concluded between the United States, Canada and Western European nations in 1949. 
Summary: The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a military alliance of countries from Europe and North America promising collective defence. Currently numbering 26 nations, NATO was formed initially to counter the communist East and has searched for a new identity in the post-Cold War world. Background: 
NATO. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Formed in 1949 with the signing of the Washington Treaty, NATO is a security alliance of 28 countries from North America and Europe. NATO's fundamental goal is to safeguard the Allies' freedom and security by political and military means.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization was created in 1949 by the United States, Canada, and several Western European nations to provide collective security against the Soviet Union. Signing of the NATO Treaty. NATO was the first peacetime military alliance the United States entered into outside of the Western Hemisphere. After the destruction of the Second World War, the nations of Europe struggled to rebuild their economies and ensure their security.
Introduction. In 1949, the prospect of further Communist expansion prompted the United States and 11 other Western nations to form the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The Soviet Union and its affiliated Communist nations in Eastern Europe founded a rival alliance, the Warsaw Pact, in 1955
NATO is the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which was established by the US and Western Europe following World War II. It originally consisted of twelve countries: the United States, Canada, Britain, France, Italy, Belgium, Denmark, Portugal, the Netherlands, Norway, Luxembourg, and Iceland. The…. NATO stands for North Atlantic Treaty Organisation which is a cooperative miltary organization between the US and countries of Europe. It began after World War II as a common defense against the feared expansionism of the Soviet Union.
Due to the creation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Soviet Union formed the Warsaw Pact which further increased tensions between the democratic United States and the communist Soviet Union itself. 
A+E Networks. The United States and 11 other nations establish the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), a mutual defense pact aimed at containing possible Soviet aggression against Western Europe. NATO stood as the main U.S.-led military alliance against the Soviet Union throughout the duration of the Cold War. NATO established. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is established by 12 Western nations: the United States, Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Iceland, Canada, and Portugal.
A short history of NATO. It is often said that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was founded in response to the threat posed by the Soviet Union. From the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty in April 1949 through the Cold War, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the terrorist attacks of the early 2000s and recent operations and partnerships to emerging security challenges, NATO is a part of history.