Australia has a constitutional monarchy based on a mixture of the US and UK systems with HM Queen Elizabeth II as head of state. In 1999, Australia voted against abolishing th … e monarchy. According to Atlapedia Online, it is a Federal Multiparty Parliamentary State with Sovereign Monarchy.
Government Australia, a federal parliamentary democracy, is an independent self-governing state and a member of the Commonwealth of Nations. The constitution of Australia, which became effective in 1901, is based on British parliamentary traditions, and includes elements of the United States system.
Like other Australian states, Victoria enjoys a politically stable and democratic form of government. The Australian government system is based on the British Westminster style of government. There are three levels of government in Australia:
61 Australia’s system of government Australia is a federation, a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary democracy. This means that Australia:  Has a Queen, who resides in the United Kingdom and is represented in Australia by a Governor-General.  Is governed by a ministry headed by the Prime Minister.
Australian Democracy. The Australian system of government has its beginnings in two great democratic traditions. Following British settlement in 1788, the Westminster model was used as the basis of government in the six separate colonies established across the continent in the 19th century.
Australia’s Political System Australia's Political System Australia's system of government is based on the liberal democratic tradition, which includes religious tolerance and freedom of speech and association. It's institutions and practices reflect British and North American models but are uniquely Australian.
THE AUSTRALIAN SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT. Australia is a federation of six States which, together with three self-governing Territories, have their own constitutions, parliaments, governments and laws.
A Parliamentary Democracy The Constitution defines the Parliament of Australia as the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives. Parliament is the basis of Australia’s tradition of responsible government.
Australia's government is a federal parliamentary democracy,  with the head of government given the title of Prime Minister.   Australia has a constitutional monarchy bas … ed on the UK system with  HM Queen Elizabeth II as Head of State.