Answers. Best Answer: Contrast Dye is not usually used in CT Brain scans because it does not cross the intact blood-brain barrier and so it doesn't provide much information. Contrast is used in CT Scan when it's known that there can be the possibility of pathologies that alter blood-brain barrier, like tumo
The contrast used in MRI is different than the CT dyes, and the likelihood of a reaction is even more rare. If the doctor and/or radiologist decides that a contrast scan is necessary, patients must be sure to mention any allergic history (especially to previous dye injections). The primary risk of a CT scan is radiation. If intravenous contrast is used, there is a risk for allergic reaction as well. Overall, the risks of CT are small.
Contrast dye is a pharmaceutical liquid used in computed axial tomography (CAT) scans, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and X-rays. It is needed to make any injuries or diseases visible to the physicians ordering the test. 
Intravenous dye may be used in some imaging procedures (e.g., CT scan, MRI scan). Contrast dye is not used in all cases. Although rare, some patients suffer allergic reactions to the dye and newer contrast agents are quite expensive. The primary risk of a CT scan is radiation. If intravenous contrast is used, there is a risk for allergic reaction as well. Overall, the risks of CT are small.
Fast facts on CT scans. Here are some key points about CT scans. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  A CT scan uses data from several X-ray images of structures inside the body and converts them into pictures. 2  The technique utilizes digital geometry processing to generate 3D images. 3  CT scans are a source of ionizing radiation and can cause cancer.
CT scans were developed in 1972 and used before MRIs. CT, or CAT as they're pronounced, stands for computerized axial tomography.. In a CT scan, the patient lies on a table that slides into a scanning machine. 
Radiopharmaceutical. Many imaging studies such as MRI, PET, CT and x-ray, involve the use of imaging agents. Imaging agents are designed to provide more information about internal organs, cellular processes and tumors, as well as normal tissue. They can be used to diagnose disease as well as monitor treatment effects. X-ray Imaging Agents: X-ray imaging agents (contrast agents) work with x-ray and CT imaging by increasing the density of tissues (and thus blocking x-ray transmission). They can be administered by mouth, enema, or injection. Barium: Barium is the most common oral contrast agent used in CT.
23. CT stands for computerised tomography. A CT scan, also known as a CAT scan, is a specialised X-ray test. It can give quite clear pictures of the inside of your body. In particular, it can give good pictures of soft tissues of the body which do not show on ordinary X-ray pictures. Other uses of a CT scan include: 1  To detect abnormalities in the body, such as tumours, abscesses, abnormal blood vessels, etc, when they are suspected by symptoms or other tests. 2  To give a surgeon a clear picture of an area of your body before certain types of surgery.
Introduction. A computerised tomography (CT) scan uses X-rays and a computer to create detailed images of the inside of the body. CT scans are sometimes referred to as CAT scans or computed tomography scans. 