In mutualism, both organisms benefit. In commensalism, one benefits and the other is unaffected; in parasitism, one benefits and the other is harmed. Some of these relationships are so close that we speak of the composite of two species as one unit; for example, we speak of the composite of algae and fungi as lichens. This is a list of mutualistic symbiotic relationships, in which different species have a cooperative or mutually dependent relationship.
-Mutualism: One of the most well known examples of mutualism in the tundra involves lichen. Lichen appears moss-like, but it actually represents a symbiotic relationship between a fungus and an algae. The fungus is fed sugars by the photosynthetic alga and the alga receives protection from the fungus. 
Mutualism is any relationship between individuals of different species where both individuals benefit. In general, only lifelong interactions involving close physical and biochemical contact can properly be considered symbiotic. 
All of us are a different part of the food chain. The tundra biome is the coldest in the world and is barely livable for most life forms. ,Even though plants and animals still live there it proves that there are many different kinds of symbiotic relationships seen in this area. A symbovesiotic relationship is where two organisms are involved. 
Symbiotic: A Cooperative Relationship (as between two persons or a group) Definition courtesy of Merriam Webster Symbiotic Relationships of the Ocean Biome Relationship One: The Clown Fish and the Anemone Place: Coral Reef, Indo-Pacific OceanThe lone clown fish swims lazily around the coral reef, seeking its home. The clown fish and the Anemone have a mutual symbiotic relationship, meaning they both benefit from the other. The Clownfish takes shelter, because it is a bad swimmer and be easy prey without it. In turn, the clownfish protects the anemone from attacking Butterfly Fish.
Symbiosis between different species of marine animals mostly takes the form of commensalism or mutualism. Some noteworthy examples are relationships between certain species of fish and turtles, clownfish and anemones, shark and remoras and shrimp and sea cucumbers. (Fiona Ayerst/iStock/Getty Images). Save. A biome is a large community of distinctive species of plants and animals adapted to a particular environment. Marine biomes are areas of the Earth where approximately 60 percent of all species of plants and animals reside. They are vast areas of water that encompass more than 75 percent of the world
Mutualism. Mutualism is A symbiotic relationship between individuals of different species in which both individuals benefit from the association. Oxpeckers and the Rhinoceros is an example of mutualism. The oxpecker gets the ticks that are on the rhinoceros as its food. Commensalism is a form of symbiosis between two organisms of different species in which one of them benefits from the association whereas the other is largely unaffected or not significantly harmed or benefiting from the relationship. Many of the animals that feed on grass will have birds follow them