Base Alcohol. Many liqueurs use finished spirits such as brandy, rum, tequila, whiskey, and vodka as a base. Since each type of alcohol has its own distinct taste, the amount of sugar and flavoring needed to obtain the flavor profile will differ from liqueur to liqueur. Rum-based liqueurs, for instance, will need less additional sugar than vodka. Data provided by liqueur websites, San Francisco World Spirits Competition, Wine Enthusiast Magazine, and Beverage Testing Institute.
A Dutch vodka-based liqueur, flavoured with sloe berries. As suggested by the polar bears on the label, this is rather enjoyable ice cold, but it can also be put to good use as a mixer (the polar... More info. A 20cl bottle of Blackberry liqueur from the De Kuyper company in the Netherlands, made with blackberry extracts and brandy. Top quality cocktail ingredient, particularly for refreshing, summer-y...
A selection of liqueur bottles. Liqueurs are alcoholic beverages that are bottled with added sugar and have added flavors that are usually derived from fruits, herbs, or nuts. Liqueurs are distinct from eaux-de-vie, fruit brandy, and flavored liquors, which contain no added sugar. Most liqueurs range between 15% and 55% alcohol by volume.
Base Alcohol. Many liqueurs use finished spirits such as brandy, rum, tequila, whiskey, and vodka as a base. Since each type of alcohol has its own distinct taste, the amount of sugar and flavoring needed to obtain the flavor profile will differ from liqueur to liqueur. The flavors found in the liqueur. While most have a primary flavor, many liqueurs are blends and therefore contain hints of other flavors. From anise to apple to caramel and vanilla, various flavors are added to each liqueur to achieve the desired flavor profile.
There are a number of different orange liqueurs on the market. Two are generic styles: triple sec and curacao. Curaçao triple sec is a clear liqueur made from neutral grain (alcohol essentially) vodka that has been sweetened with sugar and flavored with orange. peels
Advocaat liqueur. Advocaat is a dutch liqueur, made from a rich and creamy blend of unpasteurised egg yolks, sugar, aromatic spirits, and grape brandy with a hint of vanilla. 1. Thick advocaat-often eaten with a spoon and sold mainly on the Dutch market. This variety is also used in many kinds of desserts.
Triple sec is a clear liqueur made from neutral grain alcohol (essentially vodka) that has been sweetened with sugar and flavored with orange peels. Its name, which means “three times as dry,” refers to the triple-distillation process that was originally used. Two are generic styles: triple sec and curacao. Curaçao triple sec is a clear liqueur made from neutral grain (alcohol essentially) vodka that has been sweetened with sugar and flavored with orange. peels
Two are generic styles: triple sec and curacao. Curaçao triple sec is a clear liqueur made from neutral grain (alcohol essentially) vodka that has been sweetened with sugar and flavored with orange. Peels its, name which “means three times as,” dry refers to the-triple distillation process that was originally. used Two are generic styles: triple sec and curacao. Curaçao triple sec is a clear liqueur made from neutral grain (alcohol essentially) vodka that has been sweetened with sugar and flavored with orange. peels
A Dutch liqueur from the Zuidam distillery. This Chocolate liqueur is made by extracting cocoa and vanilla from Madagascar. These are aged and blended for 9 months, made to a secret recipe. More info. A 20cl bottle of Blackberry liqueur from the De Kuyper company in the Netherlands, made with blackberry extracts and brandy. Top quality cocktail ingredient, particularly for refreshing, summer-y...