Triple Net Lease (NNN Lease). This is the most popular type of net lease for commercial freestanding buildings and retail space. It is known as the net net net lease, or NNN lease, where the tenant pays all or part of the three nets--property taxes, insurance, and CAMS--on top of a base monthly rent. In a gross lease, the rent is all-inclusive. The landlord pays all or most expenses associated with the property, including taxes, insurance, and maintenance out of the rents received from tenants.
1 Many commercial leases are not based on a standard form or agreement; each commercial lease is customized to the landlord's needs. 2  As a result, you need to carefully examine every commercial lease agreement offered to you. 3  Long-term and binding. Or, if you are counting on being the only sandwich shop inside a new commercial complex, make sure your lease prevents the landlord from leasing space to a competitor. For more in depth information on negotiating commercial lease terms, see Nolo's section on Negotiating Commercial Leases.
Length of the lease. The best case scenario for you as the tenant is a short term lease with multiple options to renew after the lease is up. This way if you go out of business or outgrow your space, you are not stuck with the lease. You also avoid losing the space if it continues to serve your needs well. Find out who is responsible for what expenses. With most residential leases the landlord is responsible for the maintenance of the property and fixing things like AC units and other appliances. This is not always the case with commercial property so make sure the lease clarifies
The commission is most often calculated as a percentage of the lease value and usually ranges between four and six percent. For example, if a tenant signs a 3-year lease for 2,000 square feet at $20 per SF per year, a 5% commission equals $6,000 (3 yrs x 2,000 SF x $20 x 5%).
Before you sign a lease agreement, you should carefully investigate its terms to make sure the lease meets your business's needs. First, consider the amount of rent -- make sure you can afford it -- and the length of the lease. You probably don't want to tie yourself to a five-or ten-year lease if you can help it; your business may grow faster than you expect or the location might not work out for you. Or, if you are counting on being the only sandwich shop inside a new commercial complex, make sure your lease prevents the landlord from leasing space to a competitor. For more in depth information on negotiating commercial lease terms, see Nolo's section on Negotiating Commercial Leases.
There are three basic types of commercial real estate leases. These leases are organized around two rent calculation methods: net and gross.. The gross lease typically means a tenant pays one lump sum for rent, from which the landlord pays his expenses. The net lease has a smaller base rent, with other expenses paid for by the tenant. In a gross lease, the rent is all-inclusive. The landlord pays all or most expenses associated with the property, including taxes, insurance, and maintenance out of the rents received from tenants.
Commercial Real estate agents are typically paid a commission upon the signing of a lease. The commission is paid by the owner of the building and is typically paid one-half upon lease execution and one-half upon tenant occupancy. For example, if a tenant signs a 3-year lease for 2,000 square feet at $20 per SF per year, a 5% commission equals $6,000 (3 yrs x 2,000 SF x $20 x 5%).
Yet for a lot commercial real estate professionals ground leases are rarely encountered and are poorly understood. In this article we’ll shed some light on how ground leases work, explain what typical ground lease structures look like, and we’ll also clear up some common misconceptions about the ground lease. Ground leases, often called land leases, are simply a lease of the land only. Usually land is leased for a relatively long period of time (50-99 years) to a tenant that constructs a building on the property.
If you are working with a real estate attorney to help you negotiate your lease then your attorney should know many of brokers that can assist you. If not, then asking for a referral from people you know who have rented commercial space and were happy with the results is the next best place to start. Find out who is responsible for what expenses. With most residential leases the landlord is responsible for the maintenance of the property and fixing things like AC units and other appliances. This is not always the case with commercial property so make sure the lease clarifies