Definition. A type of education that is conducted for participants in various professional fields that consists of updated knowledge and other pertinent information that will help these individuals to attain broader understanding of their chosen industry. 
Printer-friendly version PDF version. Continuing medical education consists of educational activities which serve to maintain, develop, or increase the knowledge, skills, and professional performance and relationships that a physician uses to provide services for patients, the public, or the profession. 
continuing education. noun. Tweet. : classes taken by adult students usually in the evenings. 
: the quality of something that does not stop or change as time passes: a continuous quality. : something that is the same or similar in two or more things and provides a connection between them. : the arrangement of the parts in a story, movie, etc., in a way that is logical. plural con·ti·nu·i·ties. 2. : something that has, exhibits, or provides continuity: as a: a script or scenario in the performing arts b: transitional spoken or musical matter especially for a radio or television program c: the story and dialogue of a comic strip. 3. : the property of being mathematically continuou
Frequently, in the United States, continuing education involves enrollment in college/university credit-granting courses, often by students enrolled part-time, and often offered through a division or school of continuing education of a college/university known sometimes as the university extension or extension school. However, many continuing education programs make heavy use of distance learning, which not only includes independent study, but can also include videotaped / CD-ROM material, broadcast programming or Online Education which has more recently dominated the distance learning community.
Continuing professional development (CPD) or continuing professional education (CPE) is the means by which people maintain their knowledge and skills related to their professional lives. CPD obligations are common to most professions. 
con•ti•nu•i•ty. 1. the state or quality of being continuous. 2. a continuous or connected whole. 3. a motion-picture scenario with all details of the action, dialogue, effects, etc., in order. 4. (on a radio or television program) narration or music that serves as an introduction or transition. 5. continuity. n, pl-ties. 1. logical sequence, cohesion, or connection. 2. a continuous or connected whole. 3. (Film) the comprehensive script or scenario of detail and movement in a film or broadcast.
Because children’s growth is continuous, their early educational experiences must also be continuous (Scully, Seefeldt, & Barbour, 2003). One experience builds on another. A thread of meaning runs through a number of experiences, forming a coherent, whole, continuous learning curriculum for young children. 
continuing education, formal educational programs designed to promote knowledge, skills, and professional attitudes. The programs are usually short-term and specific. A certificate may be awarded for completion of a course, and a number of continuing education units or contact hours may be conferred. Continuing education is required for relicensure in many states. It is not to be confused with academic degree-granting programs, such as advanced education or graduate education