Out of that amount, more than 42.5 million Social Security recipients get retirement benefits, and with the government making about $55 billion in monthly payments, that amounts to an average of $1,290 per month for every person getting Social Security benefits on a retired worker's work record. This article was updated on September 9, 2015. More than 59 million Americans get benefits from Social Security, and the Social Security Administrations pays out more than $72 billion in benefits every month to retirees, disabled workers, and their families.
Your SSI payment will be reduced by the amount of any income that you have, except for certain amounts that Social Security may disregard. In particular, Social Security disregards the first $20 of any monthly income, and the first $65 of any earned income (wages from work or self-employment income). Social Security also disregards one-half of the remaining income that you earn every month. The result is your countable income.. So, for example, if Sanjay earns $700 each month, Social Security disregards the first $85 to arrive at an earned income of $615.
If you are wondering how much money you are eligible to receive through Social Security Disability benefits, the following information can help you understand the ways of determining your monthly disability benefit amount may be. Each year the Social Security Administration sends a Social Security Statement that lets you know how much money you would be entitled to if you became disabled at the time the statement was prepared. This statement is the most accurate way to estimate your monthly disability benefit amount.
If you earn less than the SGA (for 2015, it's $1,090 per month), your monthly benefits won't be impacted. If you earn more than that amount, Social Security will give you a trial work period of nine months to see if your return to work will be permanent. Social Security applies a formula to your average lifetime earnings to calculate the amount of your monthly check. The average SSD payment is currently $1,165. The highest dollar amount you can receive from SSD monthly in 2015 is $2,663.
Determining Your Benefits. How much money you receive in Social Security Disability benefits each month will depend on a variety of factors including which disability benefits you are eligible for (SSI or SSDI) and how much money you earned and paid into the Social Security system. Each year the Social Security Administration sends a Social Security Statement that lets you know how much money you would be entitled to if you became disabled at the time the statement was prepared. This statement is the most accurate way to estimate your monthly disability benefit amount.
Everyone on SSI disability (Supplemental Security Income) is eligible for the same base amount, $733. But your actual monthly SSI payment will depend on whether you have any countable income, whether you are married, and what state you live in. 
It depends on whether the person with a disability is receiving Social Security disability (SSD) or SSI (Supplemental Security Income). The average SSD payment in 2015 is $1,165 per month, but the exact amount depends on how much money the person made at work over a period of many years. The maximum you can receive from SSD is $2,663 per month. For SSI, the answer is much more complicated. The most you will receive in SSI payments from the federal government is $733 per month in 2015, but this amount will be lowered if you have any outside income (even in-kind food and shelter that are given to you). Also, most states provide a supplemental payment to some SSI recipients
SSI. The SSI program currently pays a maximum benefit of $733 a month if you are single or $1,100 a month for a couple. This is the total amount you are eligible to receive, but it will be reduced by certain other benefits or income you may receive. Social Security applies a formula to your average lifetime earnings to calculate the amount of your monthly check. The average SSD payment is currently $1,165. The highest dollar amount you can receive from SSD monthly in 2015 is $2,663.
How much your Social Security disability benefit will be is based on your covered earnings -- the wages that you paid Social Security taxes on -- prior to becoming disabled. (Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) is the federal insurance program that provides benefits to qualified workers who can no longer work. To give you an idea of what you might receive, for 2015, the average SSDI benefit amount is $1,165 per month, but you can receive anywhere up to $2,663. If you're interested in how Social Security calculates your AIME and PIA, here's how