A single brick wide wall requires 60 bricks per square metre. So the first stage is just to measure the height and length (including any piers) of the wall in metres, multiply them together to give the area in square metres, and then multiply this by 60. So the total number of bricks for the wall is: One and a half brick piers. Where one and a half brick piers are built into a single brick wall, each pier requires an additional 34 bricks per vertical metre. So the total number of bricks for the piers is: number of piers x wall height (metres) x 34 = number of bricks.
BLOCK AND BRICK WALLS. To estimate the number of blocks or bricks needed to build a wall, follow these steps: STEP 1. Calculate the wall area in square meters by multiplying the wall's length by its width. STEP 3. Multiply the answers you found in steps 1 and 2. The result will be the cubic meters of concrete or rammed earth you will need to build that one wall. STEP 4. Repeat steps 1 through 3 for each wall of the building. STEP 5
On a per-foot basis, it would be the thickness of the wall in feet multiplied by the height in feet multiplied by the combined density of the brick and mortar. My AISC manual … has 120 lbs per cubic foot for a normal brick wall, so a typical single wythe wall (4 thick) would weigh 40 lbs square foot of face area. 4 people found this useful.   A cell is like a brick because the brick is part of the brick wall that covers your body and can be seen through out yourself. To do this you would need to know the area of a brick and the area of the wall. Then you divide the area of the wall by the area of a brick. There are approximately 60 bricks … per square metre. 6
The table shows that 22 15cm x 30cm blocks are needed to build 1 square meter of wall area. 17 sq. meters x 22 blocks/sq. meter = 374 blocks. STEP 5. Repeat steps 1 through 4 for each wall of the building and add the results. Calculate the wall area in square meters by multiplying the wall's length by its width. STEP 3. Multiply the answers you found in steps 1 and 2. The result will be the cubic meters of concrete or rammed earth you will need to build that one wall. STEP 4. Repeat steps 1 through 3 for each wall of the building.
Calculating the number of blocks. Standard, UK, metric blocks are roughly 450 x 215 x 100mm (some are thicker but this will not effect the number of blocks required per square metre of wall), the mortar joints used are normally about 10mm both horizontally and vertically. One and a half brick piers. Where one and a half brick piers are built into a single brick wall, each pier requires an additional 34 bricks per vertical metre. So the total number of bricks for the piers is: number of piers x wall height (metres) x 34 = number of bricks.
5.5. 6.5. 1 The above table gives the average weights of completed walls of various thickness in pounds per square foot of wall face area. An average amount has been added into these values to include the weight of bond beams and reinforcing steel. Weight of grout is assumed at 140 pcf
Approx. 7 bags mortar per 1000 brick (143 brick per bag). Approx. 1 yard of sand per 1000 brick. 4.5 brick per sq. ft. for paving, hearths (laid flat-solid brick). Wall Ties- 1 per every 10 brick (100 wall ties per 1000). 
Double brick wall. A double brick wide wall requires 120 bricks per square metre. So the first stage is just to measure the height and length of the wall in metres, multiply them together to give the area in square metres, and then multiply this by 120. One and a half brick piers. Where one and a half brick piers are built into a single brick wall, each pier requires an additional 34 bricks per vertical metre. So the total number of bricks for the piers is: number of piers x wall height (metres) x 34 = number of bricks.