The first thing you should understand about the cloud is that it is not a physical thing. The cloud is a network of servers, and each server has a different function. Some servers use computing power to run applications or deliver a service.. For example, Adobe recently moved its creative services to the cloud. You can no longer buy the Creative Suite (Photoshop, InDesign, etc.) in a box set.
Cloud hosting services provide hosting for websites on virtual servers which pull their computing resource from extensive underlying networks of physical web servers. A development of the concept of cloud hosting for enterprise customers is the Virtual Data Centre (VDC). This employs a virtualised network of servers in the cloud which can be used to host all of a business’s IT operations including its websites.
Cloud server hosting is a type of hosting in which hosting services are made available to customers on demand via the Internet. Rather than being provided by a single server or virtual server, cloud server hosting services are provided by multiple connected servers that comprise a cloud. Cloud server hosting is also sometimes referred to as cluster server hosting or server on-demand hosting.
So remember: The Cloud is a network of servers. Some servers provide an online service, like Adobe Creative Cloud, and others allow you to store and access data, like Instagram or Dropbox. The cloud is a network of servers, and each server has a different function. Some servers use computing power to run applications or deliver a service.. For example, Adobe recently moved its creative services to the cloud. You can no longer buy the Creative Suite (Photoshop, InDesign, etc.) in a box set.
To put it simply, cloud servers mean virtual servers which run on cloud computing environment. That is why very often Cloud Servers are referred to as Virtual Dedicated Servers (VDS). While it is true that every cloud server can be called a virtual dedicated server, the opposite is not always true. 1 In this regard we should also mention that cloud servers scale very well. 2  It is very easy and fast to add upgrades(CPU, Memory, disk space) to a cloud server just as it is more affordable, of course.
1 For a similar price, with cloud servers you will receive more resources and your server will be faster. 2  In web hosting terms, your site will run faster on a cloud hosting server if you compare it to a traditional server with similar price. 3  In this regard we should also mention that cloud servers scale very well. 1 In this regard we should also mention that cloud servers scale very well. 2  It is very easy and fast to add upgrades(CPU, Memory, disk space) to a cloud server just as it is more affordable, of course.
Cloud computing metaphor: For a user, the network elements representing the provider-rendered services are invisible, as if obscured by a cloud. Cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources. Cloud computing and storage solutions provide users and enterprises with various capabilities to store and process their data in third-party data centers. With cloud computing, multiple users can access a single server to retrieve and update their data without purchasing licenses for different applications.
There are a lot of advantages to using Cloud-based services or Cloud computing. The first is that your media lives in a place not on your own device, so you can get it on multiple devices. You can check your email on any computer or access your photos on Flickr or iCloud on any computer. 
In some respects cloud servers work in the same way as physical servers but the functions they provide can be very different. The role of a hypervisor is to control the capacity of operating systems so it is allocated where needed. With cloud hosting there are multiple cloud servers which are available to each particular client. This allows computing resource to be dedicated to a particular client if and when it is necessary.
The cloud is comprised of all the Internet accounts where you can store information: e-mail, online documents, accounts at an Internet radio site, and other places. One of the simplest examples of Cloud Computing is a program such as Google Documents. When you create an account, your documents are accessible from any computer with an Internet connection–because the information is stored on the Google Documents server, not on your computer. Cloud servers are actually lighter than servers used in traditional business transactions. That's because these servers aren't being used to store and access documents–that information stays on a database. Instead, all these servers have to do is run a website.