“Search engines have revolutionized the advertising industry with a pay-for-performance model, and now Indeed is the first to create a pay-per-click network for classifieds advertising,” said Paul Forster, CEO of Indeed. STAMFORD, Conn. May 11, 2006 – Indeed, the most comprehensive search engine for jobs, today announced the formal launch of the first pay-per-click job advertising network.
The minimum daily budget for any ad set is $1.00 USD and must be at least 2 times your cost per click (CPC) bid. For example, if you have a $1.00 CPC, your daily budget must be at least $2.00. To switch from a daily budget to a lifetime budget: 1  Visit your Ads Manager and check the box next to the ad set you want to change. 2  Click Edit. 3  Click the dropdown next to Budget and change Per Day to Lifetime Budget. 4  Next to Schedule, enter an end date for your ad set. 5  Click Save Changes.
With pay per click you only pay when someone clicks to view your job. You decide how much you want to spend and our search technology does the rest, delivering predictable results that meet your cost and budget targets. 
With pay per click you only pay when someone clicks to view your job.You decide how much you want to spend and our search technology does the rest, delivering predictable results that meet your cost and budget targets. Employers get targeted candidates for every type of position. Unlike other sites that cost a fixed amount regardless of results, pay per click pricing on Indeed means you only pay when we perform. And you have complete flexibility; there are no contracts or long term commitments.
If you pause or close your job during the budget period, you immediately stop paying for clicks, regardless of the amount of money left in your budget. If you set a $20 daily budget and pause your job after spending only $12, then $12 was the cost of your promoted job. It’s that simple. To start setting budgets and refining your recruitment campaigns to bring in great candidates, contact Indeed Client Services by phone at 1-800-462-5842 or contact us here. Employers aren’t charged for putting their posting on Indeed—instead, they can choose to set a budget to attract the right talent and are only charged when candidates click on the posting. At the heart of deciding how much to spend is the idea that different kinds of jobs require different budgets.
Cost-per-click (CPC) bidding means that you pay for each click on your ads. For CPC bidding campaigns, you set a maximum cost-per-click bid-or simply max. CPC - that's the highest amount that you're willing to pay for a click on your ad (unless you're setting bid adjustments, or using Enhanced CPC). 1  Your max. 1 CPC is the most you'll typically be charged for a click, but you'll often be charged less -- sometimes much less. 2  That final amount you're charged for a click is called your actual CPC. 3  If you enter a max. 4  CPC bid and someone clicks your ad, that click won't cost you more than the maximum CPC bid amount that you set.
BREAKING DOWN 'Cost Per Click-CPC'. For example, a website that has a CPC rate of $0.10 and provides 1,000 click-throughs would bill $100 ($0.10 x 1000). The amount that an advertiser pays for a click is usually set either by formula or through a bidding process.
The budget you set will determine how many people see your jobs and your cost-per-click will determine how you rank against other advertisers in search results. Your ideal budget depends on how many jobs you have, the type of jobs, your location and industry. Employers get targeted candidates for every type of position. Unlike other sites that cost a fixed amount regardless of results, pay per click pricing on Indeed means you only pay when we perform. And you have complete flexibility; there are no contracts or long term commitments.
Sponsored Jobs. Pay per click pricing means you only pay when we deliver results – and you control what you spend. Instead of paying a large amount up-front to post your job, you choose a small amount you are willing to pay each time someone clicks to view your job. 1  Most clicks on Indeed cost between $0.25 - $1.50. 2  Spending more per click will help your job get seen more often