How To Grow Cornflowers From Seed. *First of all you need to find a space for them in free draining soil in full sun. *The soil doesn’t need to be rich, in fact Blue boy cornflowers are rather delighted to be in the presence of poor soil. (Treat em mean keep em keen.). 
Jonathanhales. There seems no reason why you shouldn't grow cornflowers in a pot if you want to, if that's how much you like cornflowers, though normally one would sow them into a flower bed or some open ground.
Cornflower grows as an annual and is a flower. Being an annual plant, it tends to grow best over the course of a single year. Cornflower normally grows with a erect habit to a mature height of 90.0 cm (that's 2.93 feet imperial). This plant tends to bloom in early summ
Plant number: 1.125.030. The perennial cornflowers are cousins to the common Bachelor’s Button, with showy heads of shaggy flowers. This species is medium in stature and well suited to growing in the sunny border. Plants form a bushy clump of grey-green divided leaves, setting off a display of rosy-purple flowers in early summer.
N o matter what you call them--cornflowers, bachelor s buttons, basket flower, or the old-fashioned blue-bottle--members of the genus Centaurea are wonderful additions to a garden. Even if they weren t great cut flowers, which they are, the blue color of the species would make them desirable. 1 Centaureas grow best if you transplant them to the garden before they are taller than four inches. 2  Transplant on a calm, cloudy day, so the plants can begin to get acclimated before having to contend with sun and wind. 3  Space the annuals about 12 inches apart.
Overview. Easy to grow and abundant in blooms, cornflowers (Centaurea cyanus) are among the most popular annuals grown in zones 3-10. Also referred to as Bachelor Buttons, they reach a height of two feet or more and make excellent cut or dried flowers. Step 1. Choose an area with full sun and well-drained soil of average moisture. For a long growing season, seeds can be sown as early as in the spring, one to two weeks before the last frost. In mild climates, they can also be planted in the fall.
Fertilize cornflowers once a month while they are in bloom. Use a balanced fertilizer, such as 10-10-10, at a rate of 1 cup per 25 square feet of garden space. Sprinkle the fertilizer on the soil around the cornflowers and water to a depth of 6 inches. Snip dead flowers from the cornflower plants to force them to keep blooming.
1 Mountain bluet (Centaurea montana) is a perennial cornflower that produces blue flowers with margins that are fringed. 2  Growing up to 24 inches in height an blooming in early summer, it's hardy in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 3 through 8. Use a balanced fertilizer, such as 10-10-10, at a rate of 1 cup per 25 square feet of garden space. Sprinkle the fertilizer on the soil around the cornflowers and water to a depth of 6 inches. Snip dead flowers from the cornflower plants to force them to keep blooming.
1 Sow seeds in a good, slightly alkaline garden soil to a depth of ½-inch. 2  Water well and keep moist until germination. 3  Cornflower seeds will germinate in roughly 7 to 10 days (annuals) and 2 to 3-1/2 weeks for perennial varieties. 4  For annuals, keep the plants crowded. This is because annual cornflowers are not long-lived plants. Garden experts recommend a second planting in spring if cornflower seeds are first sown in fall. 1 