In its internalisation of the action—the focus is on the gradual unfolding of Jane's moral and spiritual sensibility, and all the events are coloured by a heightened intensity that was previously the domain of poetry— Jane Eyre revolutionised the art of fiction. The novel begins with the titular character Jane Eyre living with her maternal uncle's family, the Reeds, as a result of her uncle's dying wish. The novel starts when Jane is ten years old and several years after her parents died of typhus. Mr. Reed, Jane's uncle, was the only one in the Reed family to be kind to Jane
Uncle Wiggily, an engaging elderly rabbit, is lame from rheumatism. Wherever he goes, he always relies on a red, white, and blue crutch—described as being striped like a barber-pole , or, in later episodes, his candy-striped walking cane, with spiral red and white striping like a peppermint candy stick. Uncle Wiggily is only one of many recurring characters in the series. For example, the Pipsisewah is an unsavory bully that appears as a rhinoceros-like creature.
Analysis of Major Characters. Jane Eyre-The protagonist and narrator of the novel, Jane is an intelligent, honest, plain-featured young girl forced to contend with oppression, inequality, and hardship. Diana is a kind and intelligent person, and she urges Jane not to go to India with St. John. She serves as a model for Jane of an intellectually gifted and independent woman. Mary Rivers-Mary Rivers is Jane’s cousin, the sister of St. John and Diana.
Uncle Wiggily Longears is the main character of a series of children's stories by American author Howard R. Garis. He began writing the stories for the Newark News in 1910. Garis penned an Uncle Wiggily story every day (except Sundays) for more than 30 years, and published 79 books within the author's lifetime. Uncle Wiggily is only one of many recurring characters in the series. For example, the Pipsisewah is an unsavory bully that appears as a rhinoceros-like creature.
Sammie and Susie Littletail were playing out in front of their burrow. Their mamma had a headache, and had gone to lie down in a dark room, and Nurse Jane Fuzzy-Wuzzy had put a mustard leaf on the back of Mamma Littletail's neck, for that is sometimes good for a headache. I'll go and save Sammie Littletail, who was so kind to me.. So he ran and hit the snake with a club, until it was glad enough to let Sammie loose, and it was quite time, too, for poor Sammie's breath was nearly squeezed out of him. Then Sammie, after he had thanked Mr. Groundhog, ran home with Susie.
Blanche Ingram-Blanche Ingram is a beautiful socialite who despises Jane and hopes to marry Rochester for his money. Diana Rivers-Diana Rivers is Jane’s cousin, and the sister of St. John and Mary. Diana is a kind and intelligent person, and she urges Jane not to go to India with St. John. She serves as a model for Jane of an intellectually gifted and independent woman. Mary Rivers-Mary Rivers is Jane’s cousin, the sister of St. John and Diana.
1 Alice Wood: Jane's maid when she is mistress of the girls' village school in Morton. 2  John Eyre: Jane's paternal uncle, who leaves her his vast fortune and wished to adopt her when she was 15. The novel begins with the titular character Jane Eyre living with her maternal uncle's family, the Reeds, as a result of her uncle's dying wish. The novel starts when Jane is ten years old and several years after her parents died of typhus. Mr. Reed, Jane's uncle, was the only one in the Reed family to be kind to Jane
#VP 1086 Uncle Wiggly & Nurse Jane Fuzzy Wuzzy Pattern-Photocopy. Photocopy of a Vintage 1943 pattern to make stuffed dolls of both Uncle Wiggly and Nurse Jane Fuzzy Wuzzy. Both dolls are 19 high! 