1 The principal: this is the notary public, the person being bonded. 2  The obligee: this is the state, the party being paid if a claim is made against the bond. 3  The surety: the surety company exists to guarantee payment of claims on the bond and has a right to recover any monies paid from the notary. In this sense, the notary public is NOT protected from financial harm by the surety bond and may want to carry notary errors & omissions insurance to protect themselves. If you are in the process of becoming a notary or renewing your notary commission and need a notary bond, you've come to the right place.
Purpose of the Bond. The notary bond works like any professional surety bond. Its purpose is to give consumers peace of mind that the professional service provider, in this case a notary, is licensed to perform the services and able to provide reimbursement in the case of faulty work. How Bonds Pay Out. Notaries must be licensed by the state they work in, and if someone has a claim against a notary, he must file against the state. If a claim is made, the surety pays out to the state, as obligee, in the amount of the claim, up to the maximum limit of the bond.
A Guide to Notary Bonds. SuretyBonds.com is legally licensed to issue notary bonds nationwide. Whether you’re a notary working in Utah, Texas, California or Arizona, we can help! A great deal of legal authority is put into the hands of notaries. Depending on your state’s notary bond requirement, you’ll pay just $50 to $135 for a year of bond coverage when working with SuretyBonds.com. Even though notary bonds are inexpensive compared to other types of surety bonds, they still provide a significant amount of coverage.
Notary Bonds. Several states require a Notary Bond in order to be licensed to conduct business as a Notary Public. The use of an embossing seal or an inking stamp is also required as part of your notarial duties.
State Specific Costs. Notary bond costs and requirements vary greatly as the notary bond amounts and regulations required for each license are established on a state level. Select your state below for more information about Notary Bonds in your area or call 1-800-308-4358 to speak with a surety expert. Begin your search by entering your ZIP: Depending on your state’s notary bond requirement, you’ll pay just $50 to $135 for a year of bond coverage when working with SuretyBonds.com. Even though notary bonds are inexpensive compared to other types of surety bonds, they still provide a significant amount of coverage.
No. A notary surety bond is written with the expectation that the notary public will faithfully perform the duties of the office as notary public as prescribed by state laws. An insurance policy expects losses based upon calculated probabilities. A notary surety bond has the same elements as a bank s letter of credit. The surety company guarantees its credit to a person or organization in the event that the notary fails to perform his or her notarial duties faithfully. My employer paid for my notary surety bond.
Cancel. Notary bonds allow an individual to notarize the truth of an event and are typically used in business deals where the bond acts as a financial remedy for the truth. This is financial advisor Patrick Munro discussing what is a notary bond. A notary bond is normally a bond that will allow an individual who is a notary, to notarize the truth and veracity of specific events. These events are usually very pertinent to a business deal. And it's a way for the bond, for the notary and his decision, that these events are true to be just that
A notary bond is a guarantee of payment to the obligee (the State) should a loss occur for a penalty amount of the bond. Notary bonds are usually provided by a surety company (typically an insurance carrier). The bond generally runs concurrently with the term of the notary public's commission. Unlike an auto insurance policy however, a notary bond is simply a guarantee that the funds will be available should a loss occur. The surety (insurance company) makes a payment to the State up to the penalty amount of the bond. However, this loss paid by the surety is not simply written off.