B. POSITION COMPENSATED BY SALARY AND FEES. Generally, a position compensated by a salary and fees is considered a fee-basis position if the fees are the principal source of compensation, unless a State law provides that a position for which any salary is paid is not a fee-basis position. The Social Security Administration (SSA) website contains links to websites not affiliated with the United States government. These may include State and Local governmental agencies, international agencies, and private entities. SSA cannot attest to the accuracy of information provided by such websites.
For example, if your chaplain is paid a given sum for each counseling session or worship service or religious education class then he is a fee based government official and may deduct his expenses of providing the relevant services as an adjustment to income. Many counties made no effort to collect the tax on automobiles, but received a 'fee' for assessing the tax. In this kind of arrangement he might be called fee-based, but his salary was strictly a salary rather than self-employment. A Notary Public would be a fee-based public official.
SL 60001.625 Fee-Based Public Officials. A fee-based public official is an individual who receives and retains remuneration directly from the public. An individual who receives payment for services from government funds in the form of a wage or salary is not a fee-based public official, even if the compensation is called a fee. The Social Security Administration (SSA) website contains links to websites not affiliated with the United States government. These may include State and Local governmental agencies, international agencies, and private entities. SSA cannot attest to the accuracy of information provided by such websites.
Fee-basis officials are persons who are employed by a state or local government and who are paid in whole or in part on a fee basis. http://www.missouribusiness.net/irs/taxmap/pubs/p463-015.htm PolangmarPolandLocal time: 13:57Works in fieldNative speaker of: PolishPRO pts in category: 440. English to Polish translations [PRO] Law/Patents-Law: Taxation & Customs. English term or phrase: fee-basis government officials. Jak tu http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f1040.pdf Znalazłam na proz tylko tak http://www.proz.com/kudoz/english_to_greek/law:_taxation_cus...
Lobbying (also lobby) is the act of attempting to influence decisions made by officials in a government, most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies. 1 'Lobbying' (also 'lobby') is a form of advocacy with the intention of influencing decisions made by the government by individuals or more usually by lobby groups; it includes all attempts to influence legislators and officials, whether by other legislators, constituents, or organized groups.
And yet in the terms of a fee paid for the services of someone who is not the payer's employee and is practicing a Trade or a Profession the term fee is often strictly time based and clocked to the minute along with perhaps additions for materials use or other costs. Many counties made no effort to collect the tax on automobiles, but received a 'fee' for assessing the tax. In this kind of arrangement he might be called fee-based, but his salary was strictly a salary rather than self-employment. A Notary Public would be a fee-based public official.
A government official or functionary is an official who is involved in public administration or government, through either election, appointment, selection, or employment. A bureaucrat or civil servant is a member of the bureaucracy. 1 An official holiday is a public holiday, having national (or regional) recognition. 2  An official language is a language recognised by a government, for its own use in administration, or for delivering services to its citizens (for example, on signposts).
Fee-basis officials are persons who are employed by a state or local government and who are paid in whole or in part on a fee basis. http://www.missouribusiness.net/irs/taxmap/pubs/p463-015.htm. Selected response from: PolangmarPolandLocal time: 13:57. English to Polish translations [PRO] Law/Patents-Law: Taxation & Customs. English term or phrase: fee-basis government officials. Jak tu http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f1040.pdf Znalazłam na proz tylko tak http://www.proz.com/kudoz/english_to_greek/law:_taxation_cus...
A fee-based public official is one who receives and retains remuneration directly from the public, e.g., justice of the peace, local registrar of vital statistics. 
An official is someone who holds an office (function or mandate, regardless whether it carries an actual working space with it) in an organization or government and participates in the exercise of authority (either his own or that of his superior and/or employer, public or legally private). 1 An official holiday is a public holiday, having national (or regional) recognition. 2  An official language is a language recognised by a government, for its own use in administration, or for delivering services to its citizens (for example, on signposts).