Comment. Tiger Woods will miss the Masters after undergoing back surgery earlier this week for a pinched nerve that has been hurting him for several months, the world's No. 1 player said Tuesday on his website. It will be the first time in 20 years that Woods will not play in the event.
Tiger hopes to return to the PGA TOUR in early 2016 after a second successful microdiscectomy surgery. (Getty Images). By TigerWoods.com. Tiger Woods, a 14-time major champion and winner of more than 100 events worldwide, announced Friday that he has undergone a second successful microdiscectomy surgery on his back. The first was done March 31, 2014. The surgery was performed late Wednesday in Park City, Utah, by neurosurgeon Dr. Charles Rich.
Tiger Woods out of Masters after back surgery. Tiger Woods won't play in the Masters for the first time since he made his debut in 1995 as a skinny amateur from Stanford University.
Bell estimated that the average recovery time for surgery like Woods had is 4 1/2 months. Tiger was gracious in keeping us updated of his condition and making us aware of his decision, Masters chairman Billy Payne said in a statement. We wholeheartedly offered our best wishes for his immediate and long-term recovery.
Tiger Woods, whose back surgery will force him to miss the Masters for the first time in his professional career, should return to complete health and competitive fitness if all goes well with his post-procedure rehab, according to a noted spine surgeon.
Woods could begin chipping and putting in three weeks and wrote on his web site that the surgery should not impact his career long term. As I have said many times, Tiger has a lot of years of good golf ahead of him, Jack Nicklaus said in a statement. I hate to see him robbed of some of that time by injury.
Tiger Woods will miss the Masters after undergoing back surgery earlier this week for a pinched nerve that has been hurting him for several months, the world's No. 1 player said Tuesday on his website. It will be the first time in 20 years that Woods will not play in the event.