Fossils of ammonites-sea creatures that became extinct about 65 million years ago. Most of the evidence for evolution comes from the fossil record. Fossils show how much, or how little, organisms have changed over time. One of the problems with the fossil record is that it contains gaps.
There are numerous types of fossil evidence that has been left behind by organisms. Some of the types of fossil evidence commonly used by scientists includes trace fossils, molds and casts, replacement fossils, petrified fossils, amber, and original material fossils.
A fossil is evidence of a once living animal. A fossil is created when an animal dies in a mud or other soft dirt or sediment. Over time, the animal will decompose and leave t … he bones. Over time, these bones will get covered by dirt, rocks water, etc.
A trace fossil is any indirect evidence left by an organisms. Examples of trace fossils include footprints, burrows, and fossilized feces that have been left behind by organisms. They simply leave material evidence that the organisms existed rather than evidence of the actual structure of the organism.
The fossil record provides snapshots of the past that, when assembled, illustrate a panorama of evolutionary change over the past four billion years.
Summary of Fossil Evidence. Fossils are evidence of organisms that have existed. The fossils may consist of clues about the organism, such as its tracks or feces, or they may be a part of the organism, such as a bone or other body part.
The most common and obvious fossils are the preserved skeletal remains of animals. Other fossils, which are also evidence of past organisms, include leaf impressions, tracks and trails, burrows, droppings, and root casts.
When you hear talk of evidence for evolution, the first thing that frequently comes to mind for most people are fossils. The fossil record has one important, unique characteristic: it is our only actual glimpse into the past where common descent is proposed to have taken place.