Abnormal urinalysis results may point to a disease or illness. For example, a urinary tract infection can make urine look cloudy instead of clear. Increased levels of protein in urine can be a sign of kidney disease. Abnormal results of a urinalysis often require more testing and evaluation to uncover the source of the problem. 1  Why it's done.
A number of diseases and conditions can result in abnormalities in the urine. These abnormalities often may be detected through physical, chemical, and microscopic examination. Urinalysis may be performed as part of a regular physical examination to screen for early signs of disease. In patients who have kidney disease or diabetes, urine tests are used to monitor the condition. Urinalysis also may be performed to detect a urinary tract infection (UTI) , protein in the urine (proteinuria), or blood in the urine (hematuria), and to diagnose pregnancy. Toxicology screening can be used as part of urinalysis to detect illegal drug use. 
A urinalysis is simply an analysis of the urine. It is a very common test that can be performed in many healthcare settings including doctors' offices, urgent care facilities, laboratories, and hospitals. It is performed by collecting a urine sample from the patient in a specimen cup. Usually only small amounts (30-60 ml's) may be required for urinalysis testing. The sample can be either analyzed in the medical clinic or sent to a laboratory to perform the tests
Urinalysis is a test that evaluates a sample of your urine. Urinalysis is used to detect and assess a wide range of disorders, such as urinary tract infection, kidney disease and diabetes. Urinalysis involves examining the appearance, concentration and content of urine. Increased levels of protein in urine can be a sign of kidney disease. Abnormal results of a urinalysis often require more testing and evaluation to uncover the source of the problem. 1  Why it's done.
Other urine tests can also be used in evaluation of many medical conditions. Examples include: 1  urine culture (in determining the bacterial cause of urine infection). 2  urine creatinine (in assessing kidney disease).... It is a very common test that can be performed in many healthcare settings including doctors' offices, urgent care facilities, laboratories, and hospitals. It is performed by collecting a urine sample from the patient in a specimen cup. Usually only small amounts (30-60 ml's) may be required for urinalysis testing.
1 Strenuous exercise, such as running a marathon, can also cause blood in the urine. 2  White blood cells may be a sign of infection or kidney disease. 3  Casts. 4  Some types of kidney disease can cause plugs of material (called casts) to form in tiny tubes in the kidneys. 1 Things that may be seen on the slide include: 2  Red or white blood cells. 3  Blood cells aren't found in urine normally. 4  Inflammation, disease, or injury to the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra can cause blood in urine.
It is used to detect urinary tract infections (UTIs) and other disorders of the urinary tract. In those with acute or chronic conditions, such as kidney disease, the urinalysis may be ordered at intervals as a rapid method to help monitor organ function, status, and response to treatment. ^ Back to top. 
1 Blood cells aren't found in urine normally. 2  Inflammation, disease, or injury to the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra can cause blood in urine. 3  Strenuous exercise, such as running a marathon, can also cause blood in the urine. 4  White blood cells may be a sign of infection or kidney disease. 1 Things that may be seen on the slide include: 2  Red or white blood cells. 3  Blood cells aren't found in urine normally. 4
1 White blood cells may be a sign of infection or kidney disease. 2  Casts. 3  Some types of kidney disease can cause plugs of material (called casts) to form in tiny tubes in the kidneys. 4  The casts then get flushed out in the urine. 5  Casts can be made of red or white blood cells, waxy or fatty substances, or protein. 1 Things that may be seen on the slide include: 2  Red or white blood cells. 3  Blood cells aren't found in urine normally. 4  Inflammation, disease, or injury to the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra can cause blood in urine.
A urine test may be done: 1  To check for a disease or infection of the urinary tract. 2  To check the treatment of conditions such as diabetes, kidney stones, a urinary tract infection (UTI), high blood pressure (hypertension), or some kidney or liver diseases. 3  As part of a regular physical examination. 1 Things that may be seen on the slide include: 2  Red or white blood cells. 3  Blood cells aren't found in urine normally. 4  Inflammation, disease, or injury to the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra can cause blood in urine.