THE VERTICAL MOTION MODEL. We learned in the NASA video that the aircraft flew in a parabolic arc. That arc is described by the quadratic equation. We also use a quadratic equation to describe how objects behave when gravity is involved. In the VERTICAL MOTION MODEL, the height of the object above the ground is a function of the amount of time it has been in motion. y = ax 2 + bx + c height time.
Re: Vertical Motion Model. Sounds like your doing calculus. Vertical motion model is just that, you want a mathimatical model of where an object will be, how fast it will be traveling, and how fast it will be accelerating, when it is falling, or possibly being propelled (although that is quite complex). Posts: 3,791. Sounds like your doing calculus. Vertical motion model is just that, you want a mathimatical model of where an object will be, how fast it will be traveling, and how fast it will be accelerating, when it is falling, or possibly being propelled (although that is quite complex).
1st equation.................... An object has an initial velocity of 20 ms-1. The object accelerates uniformly for 10 seconds and its final velocity is 45 ms-1. Calculate t … he acceleration of the object.
In all of these equations: h = the height of the object at any given point in time. t = time the object is in motion (in seconds). h 0 = the initial height (in feet or meters) from which the ball was dropped or launched. v 0 = the initial velocity (in ft/sec or m/sec) of the object when it was launched. 
Thanks: 0. Vertical Motion model. The vertical motion is modeled by: -16t^2+vt+s=h Where t= time(in seconds) V=distance(in feet) S= initial height h=ending height. [color=#FF0000]The Problem is: A baseball player hits a ball at a rate of 48ft/sec at an initial height of 3ft
There are two vertical motion models. The formula is used for an object that is being dropped. Here, h represents the height of the object, t represents the time in motion (in seconds), and s represents the initial height (in feet). The formula is used for an object that is being thrown. The initial height, s, is given in the exercise. Then, think about what the value of h is when the object hits the ground. You can substitute this value for h in the vertical motion model. Then you can solve for t, the amount of time that the object is in the air. Use the vertical motion model for an object being thrown to answer Exercises 77 and 78. Again, think about what the value of h is when the object hits the ground. Substitute this value for h in the vertical motion model
In calculus, a model for projectile motion with no friction is considered, and a parabolic trajectory is obtained. If the initial velocity is and is the initial angle to the horizontal, then the parametric equations for the horizontal and vertical components of the position vector are. (1) , and. (2) . Example 4. An arrow is shot upward from the origin with an initial velocity of 300 ft/sec. Assume that air resistance is proportional to the power of the velocity, , and use the model. . Find the velocity and position as a function of time, and plot the position function.