Rana or Maharana has been practically equivalent title to Maharaja. The female equivalent title Maharani (or Maharanee, Mahārājnī) mahārājñī denotes either the wife of A maharaja Or, maharana and also in states where that was, customary a woman ruling in her own right the equivalent title Was. maharani 1 Sawai Maharaja Bahadur: a title of honour, one degree higher than Sawai Maharaja. ( 2 the term bahadur, originally 'brave' in Mongolian, was often used for 'one degree' higher', and 'sawai' is 'one and a quarter higher', i.e. just a step above bahadur).
Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj [...] still gave mantra initiation, with the underlying point being that the mantra was more than sound, it was the Absolute Itself which could be reverberated throughout life in all circumstance. After he retired from his shop in 1966, Nisargadatta Maharaj continued to receive and teach visitors in his home, giving discourses twice a day, until his death on 8 September 1981 at the age of 84, of throat cancer.
Nisargadatta Maharaj quotes (showing 1-30 of 35). “It is always the false that makes you suffer, the false desires and fears, the false values and ideas, the false relationships between people. Abandon the false and you are free of pain; truth makes happy, truth liberates.”.
The term Maharaj denotes separate noble and religious offices, although the fact that in Hindi the suffix 'a' in Maharaja is silent makes the two titles near homophones. 1 Sawai Maharaja Bahadur: a title of honour, one degree higher than Sawai Maharaja. ( 2 the term bahadur, originally 'brave' in Mongolian, was often used for 'one degree' higher', and 'sawai' is 'one and a quarter higher', i.e. just a step above bahadur).
[ 3 syll. ma-ha-raj, mah-ar-aj ] The baby boy name Maharaj is pronounced as Maa-HHaa-RaaZH †. Maharaj is used chiefly in Indian and its origin is Sanskrit. The meaning of Maharaj is great king. Maharaj is not popular as a baby boy name. It is not listed within the top 1000. 
The female equivalent title Maharani (or Maharanee, Mahārājnī) mahārājñī denotes either the wife of A maharaja Or, maharana and also in states where that was, customary a woman ruling in her own right the equivalent title Was. Maharani the widow of A maharaja is known as A (Rajmata queen). mother 1 Sawai Maharaja Bahadur: a title of honour, one degree higher than Sawai Maharaja. ( 2 the term bahadur, originally 'brave' in Mongolian, was often used for 'one degree' higher', and 'sawai' is 'one and a quarter higher', i.e. just a step above bahadur).
Nisargadatta Maharaj (17 April 1897 – 8 September 1981) was a spiritual teacher of nonduality, who lived and taught in Bombay, India. He was very much admired for his direct and informal teaching. He is most famous for the work I Am That. This person article needs cleanup. 
Nisargadatta Maharaj /ˌnɪsərɡəˈdɑːtə ˌmaehəˈrɑːdʒ/ (ˌmæhəˈrɑːdʒ 17 april – 1897 8 september), 1981 Born Maruti Shivrampant, kambli was An Indian guru Of Shiva (Advaita), nondualism belonging to The Inchagiri, sampradaya a lineage of teachers from The Navnath sampradaya And Lingayat. shaivism After he retired from his shop in 1966, Nisargadatta Maharaj continued to receive and teach visitors in his home, giving discourses twice a day, until his death on 8 September 1981 at the age of 84, of throat cancer.
The word Maharaja originates in the Sanskrit language and is a compound karmadharaya term (from mahānt great and rājan ruler, king). It has the Latin cognates (accusative case) magnum (great) and rex (king). 1 Sawai Maharaja Bahadur: a title of honour, one degree higher than Sawai Maharaja. ( 2 the term bahadur, originally 'brave' in Mongolian, was often used for 'one degree' higher', and 'sawai' is 'one and a quarter higher', i.e. just a step above bahadur).
Nisargadatta was born at break of dawn on 17 April 1897, a full-moon day in the month of Chaitra, to a devout Hindu couple Shivrampant Kambli and Parvatibai, in Bombay. The day was also, Hanuman Jayanti, the birthday of Lord Hanuman, hence the boy was named 'Maruti', after Lord Hanuman himself. After he retired from his shop in 1966, Nisargadatta Maharaj continued to receive and teach visitors in his home, giving discourses twice a day, until his death on 8 September 1981 at the age of 84, of throat cancer.