The cytoskeleton of a cell is made up of microtubules, actin filaments, and intermediate filaments. These structures give the cell its shape and help organize the cell's parts. In addition, they provide a basis for movement and cell division. All cytoskeletons consist of three major classes of elements that differ in size and in protein composition. Microtubules are the largest type of filament, with a diameter of about 25 nanometers (nm), and they are composed of a protein called tubulin. Actin filaments are the smallest type, with a diameter of only about 6 nm, and they are made of a protein called acti
The strands are made up of intermediate filament proteins. Intermediate filament proteins, despite their variety, all have the same basic structure: they have a globular head at their N-termini, a globular tail at their C termini, and a rod-like alpha helical region in between (Figure 12.36). One group of intermediate filaments we have already encountered is the keratin filaments in skin and other epithelial cells. Some types of keratin are involved in making up skin, hair and nails. A second type of intermediate filaments include vimentin and its relative desmin.
Picture of tubulin: Tubulin proteins combine together to form the structure we know of as microtubules. The creation of a microtubule begins with nucleation. In this stage alpha and beta subunits of tubulin come together to form an initial seed. Once this is accomplished growth of the microtubule beings. Microtubules are tubular structures about 25nm in diameter. They are used in the cell mostly as supportive structure. They also function as a track for the cell to use as a pathway for the transportation of proteins and membrane bound vesicles. It is composed of protein subunits called tubulin.
Tubulin (tubul- + -in) in molecular biology can refer either to the tubulin protein superfamily of globular proteins, or one of the member proteins of that superfamily. To form microtubules, the dimers of α- and β-tubulin bind to GTP and assemble onto the (+) ends of microtubules while in the GTP-bound state.
Covalent bonds arise when two atoms share electrons. In addition to the covalent bonds that connect the atoms of a single amino acid and the covalent peptide bond that links amino acids in a protein chain, covalent bonds between cysteine side chains can be important determinants of protein structure. 
Tubulin is also used to specifically refer to α-tubulin and β-tubulin, the proteins that make up microtubules in eukaryotic cells. Each has a molecular weight of approximately 50,000 Daltons. Tubulin was long thought to be specific to eukaryotes. Recently, however, the prokaryotic cell division protein FtsZ was shown to be related to tubulin. To form microtubules, the dimers of α- and β-tubulin bind to GTP and assemble onto the (+) ends of microtubules while in the GTP-bound state.
Unlike intermediate filaments all microtubules are made up of a single kind of protein called tubulin. Microtubules are assembled in such a way that they have a polarity (that is, one end is different from the other). One group of intermediate filaments we have already encountered is the keratin filaments in skin and other epithelial cells. Some types of keratin are involved in making up skin, hair and nails. A second type of intermediate filaments include vimentin and its relative desmin.