Introduction-Revival of Expansionism-The Oregon Question-War With Mexico. Far to the north and west of Texas, the United States and several other nations vied for the Oregon Country: the land north of California and west of the Rocky Mountains. The territory was variously claimed from the sixteenth century by Spain, Russia, Britain, and the United States.
The Oregon Territory stretched from the Pacific coast to the Rocky Mountains, encompassing the area including present-day Oregon, Washington, and most of British Columbia. Originally Spain, Great Britain, Russia, and the United States claimed the territory. In 1819, under terms of the Transcontinental Treaty, Spain ceded its claims to the territory to the United States.
Originally claimed by several countries (See Oregon Country), the region was divided between the U.S. and Great Britain in 1846. When established, the territory encompassed an area that included the current states of Oregon, Washington, and Idaho, as well as parts of Wyoming and Montana.
How did the United States acquire North Dakota? Part of North Dakota was acquired in the Louisiana Purchase (from  France), and part of it was acquired in the Treaty of 1818 (from  the United Kingdom).
The Oregon Country had been claimed by various nations, including Spain, Russia, Great Britain and the U.S., but the U.S. and Great Britain soon made a joint occupation agreement, in 1818, until it was superseded by the Oregon Treaty of 1846, which established it as a U.S. state at the 49th parallel.
Oregon Country was a portion of land between the Pacific Ocean and the Rocky Mountains in the northwest portion of the present-day United States. In 1818, the United States and Britain agreed to a joint occupation of Oregon, allowing citizens of both countries to settle there.
Great Britain had earlier claimed the land as did the U.S., but Oregon state was gained with the Treaty of 1846. The rest of the Oregon Territory included Washington state, Idaho, and a part of Montana. The Louisiana Purchase had nothing to do with the state of Oregon.