Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A petition is a formal written document which is submitted to an authority in an attempt to get that authority to accede to a request. Typically, it is signed by multiple people, indicating that a large group of people supports the request detailed in the document. 
4. the action of petitioning. vb. 5. (tr) to address or present a petition to (a person in authority, government, etc): to petition Parliament. 6. (foll by: for) to seek by petition: to petition for a change in the law. Noun. 1. petition-a formal message requesting something that is submitted to an authority. request, postulation. application-a verbal or written request for assistance or employment or admission to a school; December 31 is the deadline for applications.
A petition is a piece of paper that you get lots of people to sign. You would make a petition to prove a point. When they sign it, that's saying that they agree with what you say. An emancipation petition is a legal instrument (form) that is submitted to the court when a minor is requesting to be legally emancipated. 
2. By the constitution of the United States the right to petition the government for a redress of grievances, is secured to the people. Amend. Art. 1. 3. Petitions are frequently presented to the courts in order to bring some matters before them. PETITION. An instrument of writing or printing containing a prayer from the person presenting it, called the petitioner, to the body or person to whom it is presented, for the redress of some wrong, or the grant of some favor, which the latter has the right to give. 2.
pe•ti•tion. 1. a formally drawn request, often signed by those endorsing it, that is addressed to a person or group of persons in authority, soliciting some favor, right, or other benefit. 2. a respectful or humble request, as to a superior; a supplication or prayer. 3. something sought by request or entreaty. Noun. 1. petition-a formal message requesting something that is submitted to an authority. request, postulation. application-a verbal or written request for assistance or employment or admission to a school; December 31 is the deadline for applications.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An online petition (or Internet petition, or e-petition) is a form of petition which is signed online, usually through a form on a website. Visitors to the online petition sign the petition by adding their details such as name and email address
petition. n. 1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) a written document signed by a large number of people demanding some form of action from a government or other authority. 2. any formal request to a higher authority or deity; entreaty. Noun. 1. petition-a formal message requesting something that is submitted to an authority. request, postulation. application-a verbal or written request for assistance or employment or admission to a school; December 31 is the deadline for applications.
petition. 1) n. a formal written request to a court for an order of the court. It is distinguished from a complaint in a lawsuit which asks for damages and/or performance by the opposing party. PETITION. An instrument of writing or printing containing a prayer from the person presenting it, called the petitioner, to the body or person to whom it is presented, for the redress of some wrong, or the grant of some favor, which the latter has the right to give. 2.