Taxpayers using TurboTax and electing to have their refunds deposited directly into their bank accounts will get their fastest refunds possible. Refunds from tax returns filed on paper can take up to six weeks, depending on the time of year you file your tax return. You can save more trees than ever using efile. You can now file a completely paperless return, right down to your signature. You can use a self-selected Personal Identification Number (PIN) just as you would at a bank ATM. The PIN is your electronic
And, you always have the option to complete and file a state return for just $24.95 and city returns for just $9.95 (whether or not your federal return is free). TaxSimple supports state returns for all states that have an income tax. Please click here: http://taxsimple.com/freefilefederal/. If you do not qualify for free file, your federal tax return paper filing is free. Electronic Filing is $9.95 and your state tax return is $19.95. Check their website for more details. http://www.advancetaxreturn.com/2013/ffaar.html.
When someone claims your tax return fraudulently, it can take years for the IRS to complete its investigation and clear your name. H&R Block, another tax preparer, said Friday that it was not having similar problems with state returns. 
TurboTax resumes filings amid fraud outbreak. TurboTax has turned off the ability of its software to e-file state tax returns across the USA after the company found an increase in suspicious filings, the company said. TurboTax has turned off the ability of its software to e-file state tax returns across the U.S.
There are a number of different versions, including TurboTax Deluxe, TurboTax Premier, etc. TurboTax is available for both federal and state income tax returns. The software is designed to guide users through their tax returns step-by-step. The TurboTax software provides taxpayers additional support for their self-prepared returns by offering Audit Defense from TaxResources, Inc. For filers who use this basic version of the software, federal filing is free. However, state tax filing is not free, and the cost of using TurboTax to file state returns is not presented to the user until they've already completed entering their information for federal returns.
First off, make sure you need to amend your return. If you’ve made minor math errors, the IRS states that the service center will be able to handle that without requiring a 1040x. However if you need to change your filing status, credits, tax deductions, or income, then you do need to amend your tax return. If you did, but your tax return was rejected by the IRS you may not be happy about the IRS rejection, but you should be happy to know, you don’t need to amend your tax return. All you need to do is fix your tax return and resend it.
They can have checks mailed, they can have them deposited directly or they can have it put on a prepaid debit card, he said. The state e-file fiasco is just the latest headache for Intuit's TurboTax this tax season. This year, users of the software have been outraged by a stealth price hike that forced many investors and self-employed people to pay 50% more for the software. TurboTax has turned off the ability of its software to e-file state tax returns across the U.S. after the company found an increase in suspicious filings, the company said.
1 Try for Free/Pay When You File: TurboTax online and mobile pricing is based on your tax situation and varies by product. 2  Actual prices are determined at the time of print or efile and are subject to change without notice. You can save more trees than ever using efile. You can now file a completely paperless return, right down to your signature. You can use a self-selected Personal Identification Number (PIN) just as you would at a bank ATM. The PIN is your electronic
With TurboTax, by contrast, it is possible to e-file a state return without e-filing a federal return, Intuit confirms. A TaxAct spokeswoman said that company is not seeing similar fraud issues and that customers can file state and federal returns as usual. 
If you send in your return by mail, you can expect to wait up to six weeks for your refund. Efiling your return and electing to have your refund deposited directly into your bank account is the fastest way to get your tax refund. You can save more trees than ever using efile. You can now file a completely paperless return, right down to your signature. You can use a self-selected Personal Identification Number (PIN) just as you would at a bank ATM. The PIN is your electronic