For Milgram's other well-known experiment, see Small-world experiment. The experimenter (E) orders the teacher (T), the subject of the experiment, to give what the latter believes are painful electric shocks to a learner (L), who is actually an actor and confederate.
Cognitive psychology is a pure science, based mainly on laboratory experiments. Behavior can be largely explained in terms of how the mind operates, i.e. the information processing approach. The mind works in a way similar to a computer: inputting, storing and retrieving data. Cognitive psychology is also a reductionist approach. This means that all behaviour, no matter how complex can be reduced to simple cognitive processes, like memory or perception. Typically cognitive psychologists use the laboratory experiment to study behavior.
The Milgram experiment on obedience to authority figures was a series of social psychology experiments conducted by Yale University psychologist Stanley Milgram. They measured the willingness of study participants to obey an authority figure who instructed them to perform acts conflicting with their personal conscience. The experimenter (E) orders the teacher (T), the subject of the experiment, to give what the latter believes are painful electric shocks to a learner (L), who is actually an actor and confederate.
Social psychology conducts its experiments both inside and outside of the laboratory. One notable social psychology experiment is the Stanford prison experiment conducted by Philip Zimbardo in 1971, although the extremity of this field experiment is not prototypical of the field. Another notable study is the Stanley Milgram obedience experiment, often known as the Milgram experiment. In the latter half of the 20th century, the phrase experimental psychology had shifted in meaning due to the expansion of psychology as a discipline and the growth in the size and number of its sub-disciplines.
Experimental psychology refers to work done by those who apply experimental methods to the study of behavior and the processes that underlie it. In the latter half of the 20th century, the phrase experimental psychology had shifted in meaning due to the expansion of psychology as a discipline and the growth in the size and number of its sub-disciplines.
The use of experimental methods was perhaps the main characteristic by which psychology became distinguishable from philosophy in the late 19th century. Ever since then experiments have been an integral part of most psychological research. Following is a sample of some major areas that use experimental methods. In the latter half of the 20th century, the phrase experimental psychology had shifted in meaning due to the expansion of psychology as a discipline and the growth in the size and number of its sub-disciplines.
1. This type of experiment is conducted in a well-controlled environment – not necessarily a laboratory – and therefore accurate measurements are possible. The researcher decides where the experiment will take place, at what time, with which participants, in what circumstances and using a standardized procedure. Participants are randomly allocated to each independent variable group. An example is Milgram’s experiment on obedience or Loftus and Palmer's car crash study. 1  Strength: It is easier to replicate (i.e. copy) a laboratory experiment. 2  Strength: They allow for precise control of extraneous and independent variables. 3  Limitation: The artificiality of the setting may produce unnatural behavior that does not reflect real ... 
Milgram's Lost Letter Experiment. Classic social psychology experiments are widely used to expose the key elements of aggressive behavior, prejudice and stereotyping. Social group prejudice is manifested in people's unfavorable attitudes towards a particular social group. I was only following orders Legal defence by a Nazi leader at the Nuremberg trial following World War II. Social psychology experiments can explain how thoughts, feelings and behaviors are influenced by the presence of others.
Ten of the most influential social psychology experiments. “I have been primarily interested in how and why ordinary people do unusual things, things that seem alien to their natures. 