Now: Marin is the voice of Ramone in both of the Pixar 'Cars' films. He's a regular in Robert Rodriguez films ranging from the 'Spy Kids' movies to 'Machete.' On television, he played the father-in-law on the 2012 series 'Rob.'. Disney/imdb.com. Then: Taylor Thomas was one of the biggest teen stars at the time of 'The Lion King's' release thanks to his role as middle son Randy on the sitcom 'Home Improvement.' It was the voice of Young Simba that helped launch JTT's film career.
1 Kimber Benton (voiced by Cathianne Blore, singing voice recorded by Florence Warner) – Kimber is Jerrica's younger sister and the primary songwriter of the Holograms. 2  Kimber is also the keyboards, synthesizers, and backup vocals for the band. 1 Phyllis Pizzazz Gabor (voiced by Patricia Alice Albrecht, singing voice recorded by Ellen Bernfeld) – Pizzazz is an archetypal spoiled rich girl who is the lead vocals and guitarist of the Misfits.
1 Jem / Jerrica Benton (voiced by Samantha Newark, singing voice recorded by Britta Phillips) – Jem is the leader of the Holograms where she provides the lead vocals. 2  She is the alter-ego of Jerrica Benton, owner of Starlight Music and a foster home for girls known as Starlight House (later called Starlight Mansion). 1 Phyllis Pizzazz Gabor (voiced by Patricia Alice Albrecht, singing voice recorded by Ellen Bernfeld) – Pizzazz is an archetypal spoiled rich girl who is the lead vocals and guitarist of the Misfits.
By June 2012, Chris Pratt had been cast as the voice of Emmet, the lead Lego character, and Will Arnett voicing Lego Batman; the role of Lego Superman was offered to Channing Tatum. 1 Ferrell also plays The Man Upstairs, a Lego collector and Finn's father in the live-action part of the film. 2  Elizabeth Banks as Wyldstyle/Lucy, a tough as nails and tech-savvy fighter who is one of the Master Builders.
Princess Ariel is a fictional character, a mermaid, and the protagonist of Disney's The Little Mermaid. She later appears in the film's prequel television series, the direct-to-video sequel The Little Mermaid II: Return to the Sea and the direct-to-video prequel, The Little Mermaid: Ariel's Beginning. Ariel is voiced by Jodi Benson in all the above animated material. Her character is based on the protagonist of Hans Christian Andersen's The Little Mermaid story, but was developed into a different personality for the 1989 animated film adaptation. Her distinct appearance consists of long, flowing red hair, blue eyes, a green tail and a lavender seashell bikini top.
Hartman also did voice work on cartoons such as DuckTales, Captain Planet and the Planeteers, and Darkwing Duck. His most notable voice work was with The Simpsons, playing Springfield’s down-and-out lawyer Lionel Hutz (a.k.a. Miguel Sanchez) and washed-up actor Troy McClure. Keith David is one of Hollywood's go-to character actors. He's most recognizable for his key supporting roles in movies like Armageddon, Requiem For a Dream, and John Carpenter’s The Thing, but the 57-year-old actor has done his fair share of voice work.
Up is a 2009 American 3D computer-animated comedy adventure film produced by Pixar and released by Walt Disney Pictures. Directed by Pete Docter, the film centers on an elderly widower named Carl Fredricksen (Edward Asner) and an earnest young Wilderness Explorer named Russell (Jordan Nagai). Up was released on May 29, 2009 and opened the 2009 Cannes Film Festival, becoming the first animated and 3D film to do so.
Jem and the Holograms from left to right: Aja Leith, Shana Elmsford, Jerrica 'Jem' Benton, Kimber Benton, and Carmen 'Raya' Alonso. 1  Jem / Jerrica Benton (voiced by Samantha Newark, singing voice recorded by Britta Phillips) – Jem is the leader of the Holograms where she provides the lead vocals. 1 Phyllis Pizzazz Gabor (voiced by Patricia Alice Albrecht, singing voice recorded by Ellen Bernfeld) – Pizzazz is an archetypal spoiled rich girl who is the lead vocals and guitarist of the Misfits.
The designs of the characters were caricatured and stylized considerably, and animators were challenged with creating realistic cloth. The floating house is attached by a varying number between 10,000 and 20,000 balloons in the film's sequences. Up was Pixar's first film to be presented in Disney Digital 3-D. Up was released on May 29, 2009 and opened the 2009 Cannes Film Festival, becoming the first animated and 3D film to do so. The film became a great financial success, accumulating over $731 million in its theatrical release
Thomas Jacob Black was born on August 28, 1969, in Santa Monica, California, the son of two satellite engineers, Judith Love (nee Née), cohen who worked on The Hubble Space telescope and is also a, writer And Thomas William. Black his mother was Born, jewish and his father converted To. judaism 