Clerical Duties. Also known as medical services managers or health care executives, health care administrators manage the administrative tasks of hospitals, medical laboratories, physician practices and other health care facilities.
Also known as health services managers or hospital administrators, healthcare administrators are responsible for all aspects of healthcare, including the facilities, services and programs, staff, budgets, relations with other organizations and other management functions.
Managing Employees. For health care administrators in large medical practices or hospitals, employee management forms a large part of their responsibilities. They hire, motivate, train and fire subordinate administrative employees, including legal secretaries, receptionists and clerks.
A healthcare administrator is responsible for the facility business management and whatever operation they are running such as a hospital or nursing home.
For healthcare administrators overseeing general medical and surgical hospitals, the average was more than $102,000. The average annual wage was $93,770 for administrators at physicians’ offices, while those overseeing home healthcare services earned an average of $85,860.
Healthcare administrators come in all sizes from clinical to administrative they run the business of healthcare. Healthcare administrators, Medical and Health Services Managers, also referred to as health care executives or health care administrators, plan, direct, coordinate, and supervise the delivery of health care.
Education and Training. The healthcare administrator job description includes a master’s degree in one of a number of fields for most generalist positions as a medical or health care manager. A bachelor’s degree is sometimes adequate for entry-level positions in smaller facilities and departments.
The job of a healthcare administrator (also known as a “health care executive” or a “health care manager”) has similar responsibilities to those of leadership positions, social service managers, and human resource managers, among others.