Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired
Oven Temperature. Another thing that determines how long the salmon is baked is oven temperature. Typically, recipes for baking salmon call for an oven temperature of 350 to 450 degrees. The salmon should always be put into a pre-heated oven. Cooking in an oven that hasn't been pre-heated can cause drying of the fish.
Report Abuse. I bake salmon all the time. I line my pan with aluminum foil, place the salmon fillet in the pan, put on my favorite seasonings/toppings, seal it up, and bake it in a preheated 400º oven. If the topping is thick, like a mayonnaise topping with onion powder and dill sprinkled over it, my 8 oz piece of salmon takes about 30 minutes to cook
The best way to cook the thicker fillets is to use 400° as the set temperature and bake the fish for 18-20 minutes. If a lower heat is desired, season the fillet and wrap it in foil, sealing it tightly and bake at 350° for about 25-30 minutes. Salmon must always be cooked at about 400° Farenheit for optimal results. Fish cooks fast and must be baked at a high temperature to kill bacteria and cook the flesh evenly. The lowest possible temperature to cook Salmon is 350°, but this may result in a dried fish, unless it is completely wrapped in foil. For optimal baking results, each fillet or steak should be coated with olive oil, margarine or butter and then about 1 teaspoon of lemon juice should be drizzled over it
1 Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 2  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 3  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 6  Bake salmon until just opaque in center, 15-18 minutes. 1 Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 2  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 3  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 4  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 5  Season with salt and pepper. 6
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist.
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. 
1 Preheat oven to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 1 Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 2  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 3  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 4  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 5  Season with salt and pepper. 6  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld.