Childhood: Jack Nicholson was born in Manhattan, New York City and raised in New Jersey by his grandparents, who he believed were actually his parents. His mother, June Frances. Nicholson, was a showgirl known as June Nilson. In 1989, Jack Nicholson played The Joker in Tim Burton's Batman. Nicholson himself reportedly earned around $60 million for his part in the film. The 1990s saw Nicholson playing Col. Nathan R. Jessep in A Few Good Men, alongside Tom Cruise and he earned himself one more Oscar nomination.
Mini Bio (1). Jack Nicholson, an American actor, producer, screenwriter and director, is a three-time Academy Award winner and 12-time nominee. Nicholson is also notable for being one of two actors-the other being Michael Caine-who have received Oscar nods in every decade from 1960s through the 2000s. The 1980s kicked off with another career-defining role for Nicholson as Jack Torrance in Stanley Kubrick 's adaptation of Stephen King 's novel The Shining (1980).
Nicholson was born on April 22, 1937 in Neptune, New Jersey. He was raised believing that his grandmother was his mother, and that his mother, June Frances Nicholson, a showgirl, was his older sister. He discovered the truth in 1975 from a Time magazine journalist who was researching a profile on him. The 1980s kicked off with another career-defining role for Nicholson as Jack Torrance in Stanley Kubrick 's adaptation of Stephen King 's novel The Shining (1980).
Early Life and Career. Jack Nicholson was born in Neptune, New Jersey, on April 22, 1937, and grew up in Manasquan, New Jersey, about 50 miles south of the city on the Jersey Shore. The people he believed to be his parents were named John and Ethel May Nicholson. 
Nicholson's 12 Academy Award nominations make him the most nominated male actor in the Academy's history. Nicholson has won the Academy Award for Best Actor twice, one for the drama One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) and the other for the romantic comedy As Good as It Gets (1997). Nicholson is one of three male actors to win three Academy Awards. Nicholson is one of only two actors to be nominated for an Academy Award for acting in every decade from the 1960s to the 2000s; the other is Michael Caine.
Born in New Jersey in 1937, Jack Nicholson had a difficult early life. His father was an alcoholic who left home before Jack was born. He was raised believing his grandmother was his mother and his mother was his older sister. 
Perhaps no other actor of his generation made more of a lasting impression than Jack Nicholson. Over the course of several decades, Nicholson delivered one sterling performance after another in films that have long been ... Read more ». Born: 04/22/1937 in Neptune, New Jersey, USA. 
Publisher. A+E Networks. On this day in 1937, John Joseph Nicholson, who will become known as one of the greatest actors of his generation and famous for his roles in such movies as Easy Rider, One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest and As Good As it Gets, is born in Neptune, New Jersey. In 1958, Nicholson played a troubled teenager in his first film, a low-budget horror flick called The Cry Baby Killer. This was the first of many appearances in horror and biker films and other second-rate genre movies that Nicholson would make over the course of the next decade.
Nicholson was born in Neptune City, New Jersey, the son of a showgirl, June Frances Nicholson (November 5, 1918 – July 31, 1963) (stage name June Nilson). Nicholson is one of three male actors to win three Academy Awards. Nicholson is one of only two actors to be nominated for an Academy Award for acting in every decade from the 1960s to the 2000s; the other is Michael Caine.
Nicholson was born in Manhattan, New York City, the son of a showgirl, June Frances Nicholson (stage name June Nilson). June had married Italian American showman Donald Furcillo (stage name Donald Rose) six months earlier in Elkton, Maryland, on October 16, 1936. Elkton was a town known for its quickie marriages. 