Volume of a cone = 1/3pr2h. For irregularly shaped solids, the volume can be indirectly determined via the volume of water (or any other liquid) that the solid displaces when it is immersed in the water (Archimedes Principle). The units for solid volumes are typically cubic centimeters (cm 3) or cubic meters (m 3). Note that 1 mL = 1 cm 3. 
As there are many units of mass and volume covering many different magnitudesthere are a large number of units for mass density in use.The SI unit of kilogram per cubic metre (kg/m³) and the cgs unit of gram per cubic centimetre (g/cm³) are probably the most common used units for density. Density 2. density may be expressed in terms of weight density (the weight of the material per unit volume) or as a ratio of the. density with the density of a common material such as air or water. Measurement of density The density at any point of a homogeneous object equals its total mass divided by its total volume.
Any unit of length gives a corresponding unit of volume, namely the volume of a cube whose side has the given length. For example, a cubic centimetre (cm 3) would be the volume of a cube whose sides are one centimetre (1 cm) in length. In the International System of Units (SI), the standard unit of volume is the cubic metre (m 3). The metric system also includes the litre (L) as a unit of volume, where one litre is the volume of a 10-centimetre cube.
The base units of length and volume are linked in the metric system. By definition, a liter is equal to the volume of a cube exactly 10 cm tall, 10 cm long, and 10 cm wide. Because the volume of this cube is 1000 cubic centimeters and a liter contains 1000 milliliters, 1 milliliter is equivalent to 1 cubic centimeter. 1 mL = 1cm 3. The base units of volume and weight are also linked. The gram was originally defined as the mass of 1 mL of water at 4 degrees Celsius. 
In this chapter we examine the derived units for volume and density. Volume. The volume of a cube is given by its length cubed, (length) 3. Thus, the basic SI unit of volume is the cubic meter, or m 3, the volume of a cube that is 1 m on each edge. Smaller units, such as cubic centimeters, cm 3 (sometimes written as cc), are frequently used in chemistry. 
The SI unit for volume is the cubic meter. But most common measurements are made using liters (cubic decimeters) or fractions of the liter (millliters / cubic centimeters). The volume can be measured in cubic meters, cubic centimeters, or liters. The units of the three-dimensional volume depend on the units of length-if the lengths are in meters, the volume will be in cubic meters, etc. To measure a square or cube: Volume = length times width times height.
Density is determined by dividing the mass of a substance by its volume: VolumeMassDensity = The units of density are commonly expressed as g/cm 3 for solids, g/mL for liquids, and g/L for gases. Density is also an intensive property of matter. 
Volume is said to be a derived unit, since the volume of an object can be known from other measurements. In order to find the volume of a rectangular box, for example, one only needs to know the length, width, and depth of the box. Then the volume can be calculated from the formula, V = l · w · d. The basic unit of volume in the metric system is the liter (abbreviated as L), although the cubic centimeter (cc or cm 3) and milliliter (mL) are also widely used as units for measuring volume.
From the equation for density (ρ = m / V), mass density has units of mass divided by volume. As there are many units of mass and volume covering many different magnitudes there are a large number of units for mass density in use. The SI unit of kilogram per cubic metre (kg/m 3) and the cgs unit of gram per cubic centimetre (g/cm 3) are probably the most commonly used units for density. 1,000 kg/m3 equals 1 g/cm 3. (The cubic centimeter can be alternately called a millilitre or a cc .) In industry, other larger or smaller units of mass and or volume are often more practical and US customary units may be used. See below for a list of some of the most common units of