IVDD in Dogs: Canine intervertebral disc disease (IVDD) is a common orthopedic problem seen by veterinarians. The discs are thick plate-or disc-like cushions which lie between the bony vertebrae in the spine. They are composed of a fibrous outer layer called the annulus fibrosus and a pulpy, gelatinous center called the nucleus pulposus. They help to cushion the spine as your dog walks, trots, runs, twists, and jumps.
Type I IVDD typically occurs in chondrodystrophic breeds. These dogs have short, stubby legs and include the American Cocker Spaniel, Basset hound, Beagle, Corgi, Dachshund, French and other bulldogs, Shih-tzu and the Pekingese. Poodles also are predisposed. Type I IVDD usually comes on suddenly and is very painful.
How IVDD Affects Dogs. Intervertebral disk disease (IVDD) can cause a number of symptoms in domestic dogs, ranging from signs of mild pain to partial or complete paralysis. Most cases fall somewhere in between these two extremes. This type of acute traumatic injury is not the same as IVDD, although the symptoms can be very similar. IVDD involves a degenerative process and does not result merely from sudden trauma, although sudden trauma can cause rupture or herniation of an intervertebral disk in a dog whose disks already are weakened by IVDD.
1 Intervertebral disc disease (IVDD) is a condition in which a disc develops a problem and the material inside escapes into the spinal column, ultimately causing pain, nerve damage, and even paralysis. 1 There are two types of IVDD: Hansen Type I, which involves the acute, explosive herniation of a disc, and Hansen Type II, which is a gradual, progressive protrusion of disc material.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Intervertebral disc disease (IVDD) is a condition in which a disc develops a problem and the material inside escapes into the spinal column, ultimately causing pain, nerve damage, and even paralysis. 2  The condition is seen more often in dogs than cats. 1 There are two types of IVDD: Hansen Type I, which involves the acute, explosive herniation of a disc, and Hansen Type II, which is a gradual, progressive protrusion of disc material.
Intervertebral disc disease (IVDD) is a condition where the cushioning discs between the vertebrae of the spinal column either bulge or burst (herniate) into the spinal cord space. These discs then press on the nerves running through the spinal cord causing pain, nerve damage, and even paralysis. 
Intervertebral Disk Disease: IVDD is a debilitating and costly disease that affects multiple breeds, including Corgis, Papillons, Doberman Pinschers, German Pinschers, and Miniature Pinschers. IVDD is particularly prevalent in Dachshunds, where an estimated 1 in 5 dogs is affected. 
Since degeneration of the discs occurs earlier in these dogs, Type I IVDD. usually shows up first between 4 to 6 years of age. In the Type II disc disease, the tear in the outer layer is smaller and tends to occur gradually over a period of time. The discs are thick plate-or disc-like cushions which lie between the bony vertebrae in the spine. They are composed of a fibrous outer layer called the annulus fibrosus and a pulpy, gelatinous center called the nucleus pulposus. They help to cushion the spine as your dog walks, trots, runs, twists, and jumps.
IVDD is a disease and not an injury. The trauma to the spinal cord results from hardening of the discs due to the disease. IVDD causes discs to age earlier in life. Discs lose moisture and harden and can no longer cushion the vertebrae along the spine. IVDD occurs in breeds such as dachshunds, poodles, corgis, beagles, but it is not limited to just those breeds. If a dog has IVDD, a disc problem can happen at any age.
Intervertebral disk disease in dogs is a common cause of back pain, rear limb paralysis, and inability to walk or feel the back legs. This leads to signs of intervertebral disk disease. Signs of thoracolumbar intervertebral disk disease include back pain, pelvic limb ataxia (walking wobbly), inability to stand, inability to move the rear legs, or even inability to feel the back legs. A grading scale is used in dogs: