This is why the serum albumin test can tell your physician how well your liver is working. An albumin test is often used as part of a test known as a liver panel, which tests your blood for albumin, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and prealbumin. Your physician will likely order an albumin test if he or she suspects you may have a condition that affects your liver function. If your liver and/or kidneys are not working well, serum albumins won’t be at their normal levels. With a simple blood test, your doctor can find out your albumin levels and interpret what your levels may mean for your health.
A normal amount of albumin in your urine is less that 20 mg a day. A normal total protein amount in your urine is less that 150 mg a day. If your test shows high levels of urine albumin, or a rise in urine albumin, it could mean you have kidney damage or disease. This test looks for a protein called albumin in your urine. The test is used to check for kidney damage or disease. Albumin helps to keep the right amount of fluid moving through your body.
The normal range of albumin levels is 3.4- 5.4 grams per deciliter (g/dL). There might be a marginal difference in the ranges in different laboratories. Low albumin levels are indicative of liver disease and further enzyme tests will be required to pinpoint which one it is. Tweet. Albumin is a protein manufactured by the liver. It helps balance the amount of blood flowing through the arteries and veins and moves the calcium, progesterone, bilirubin and medications through a person’s blood. It also stops fluid in the blood from leaking into the tissues.
Proteins circulate throughout your blood to help your body maintain fluid balance. Albumin is produced in the liver, and is one of the most abundant proteins in your blood’s fluid or plasma. A proper balance of albumin is required to keep fluid from leaking out of blood vessels. If your liver and/or kidneys are not working well, serum albumins won’t be at their normal levels. With a simple blood test, your doctor can find out your albumin levels and interpret what your levels may mean for your health.
The serum albumin test also can test the status of certain medical conditions, such as chronic pancreatitis, liver disease, or kidney disease. If you have one of these conditions, serum albumin results can indicate if your condition is improving or advancing. If your liver and/or kidneys are not working well, serum albumins won’t be at their normal levels. With a simple blood test, your doctor can find out your albumin levels and interpret what your levels may mean for your health.
Albumin is routinely included in the panels of tests performed as part of a physical, such as a comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) , so it is frequently assessed as a part of an evaluation of a person's overall health status. Low albumin levels can reflect diseases in which the kidneys cannot prevent albumin from leaking from the blood into the urine and being lost. In this case, the amount of albumin or protein in the urine also may be measured (see Urine Albumin).
Guide. An albumin test checks urine for a protein called albumin. Albumin is normally found in the blood and filtered by the kidneys. When the kidneys are working as they should, there may be a very small amount of albumin in the urine. But when the kidneys are damaged, abnormal amounts of albumin leak into the urine.
An albumin test may be ordered as part of a liver panel to evaluate liver function, along with a creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) to evaluate kidney function, or to evaluate a person's nutritional status. ^ Back to top. Low albumin levels can reflect diseases in which the kidneys cannot prevent albumin from leaking from the blood into the urine and being lost. In this case, the amount of albumin or protein in the urine also may be measured (see Urine Albumin).