C ountable and uncountable nouns. * If you find “a”/“an” in front of the word or “s” at the end of a word, this word must be a countable noun. For examples, when you see “a car” or “cars”, the word “car” must be countable. 
Nouns that have a plural form. UNCOUNTABLE NOUNS Nouns you can´t count Nouns that normally don´t have a plural form We can make uncountable nouns countable to express quantity. We add a unit or a quantity with “OF” e.g. a bar of chocolate c) Use a / an or some and write C for countable or U for uncountable.
The noun food is an uncountable and a countable noun, depending on use. The noun food and some of the words for food, such as rice, sugar, butter, or meat are words for subst … ances, uncountable nouns. The noun meat is an uncountable  noun as a word for a substance.    Units of meat are expressed as pieces of meat, cuts of meaat,  pounds of meat, etc.    For … example, in a restaurant you might ask for some meat,  but not 'a' meat, which means one meat.
Nouns #12: Countable Forms of Uncountable Nouns. Sometimes you will see uncountable nouns used with a / an. or an-s. This seems to be wrong, but it can be correct when the meaning is a type / types or a kind / kinds of the. uncountable noun. Here are a few examples: A similar process can be used to make countable nouns uncountable: A tomato is one whole tomato, but if you cut or mash the tomato until you can no longer count the pieces, it becomes some tomato / a cup of. tomato, etc.
Noun [edit]. chicken ‎(countable and uncountable, plural chickens). ( 1 countable) A domestic fowl, Gallus gallus, especially when young. ( 2 uncountable) The meat from this bird eaten as food. ( 3 countable, slang) A coward. ( 4 countable, gay slang) A young, attractive, slim man, usually having little body hair. 
AppleBookGovernmentStudentIsland. Uncountable Nouns. InformationWaterCheeseWoodJuice. Countable nouns are nouns you can count, and uncountable nouns are nouns you can't count. Countable nouns can take the singular or the plural form of a verb. Uncountable nouns always take the singular form of the verb. Study the rules and examples below
Some nouns in English are countable-we can use them in singular and plural forms. Some are uncountable-they only have one form. We often use a/an with singular countable nouns and some with plurals. We can also use some with uncountable nouns. 
The noun chicken (the creature) is a countable noun; one chicken or a dozen chickens. The noun chicken (the food, a substance) is a mass (non-count) noun; units are expressed in pieces of chicken, parts of chicken, pounds of chicken, etc. The noun meat is an uncountable  noun as a word for a substance.    Units of meat are expressed as pieces of meat, cuts of meaat,  pounds of meat, etc.    For … example, in a restaurant you might ask for some meat,  but not 'a' meat, which means one meat.