Three Gorges Dam. 607 ft (185 m) high and 7,575 ft (2,309 m) long, on the Chang (Yangtze) River, central Hubei prov., China, 30 mi (48 km) W of Yichang. The largest concrete structure in the world, the dam itself was constructed from 1994 to 2006.
The Three Gorges Dam Project (TGP) is the world's largest hydropower complex project located in one of the three gorges of the Yangtze River: the Xilingxia Gorge in Hubei province, China.
'The full operation of the generators makes the Three Gorges Dam the world's largest hydropower project and largest base of clean energy,' said Zhang Cheng, general manager of China Yangtze Power, the operator of the generators.
The Three Gorges Dam (Chinese: 长江三峡大坝) is a dam in the Three Gorges region on the Yangtze River in Sandouping, in the country of China.
Three Gorges Dam. The Three Gorges Dam Project was completed in 2009. Situated at Sandouping Town of Yichang City, Hubei Province, the Three Gorges Dam is the largest hydro-power station in the world with an annual energy output of 84.7 billion kilowatt-hours.
The giant and controversial Three Gorges Dam in China has launched the last of its generators, just as it hits its annual flood peak. The final 32 generators went into operation this week, making it the world's largest hydropower project, built on the Yangtze River in the Hubei Province.
The Three Gorges Dam is the largest hydroelectric dam in the world. It is located in the middle of the tree gorges on the Yangtze River, the third longest in the world, in the Hubei Province of China. The project was approved by the Chinese government in 1992.
The Three Gorges Dam includes three areas: the dam itself, a hydroelectric, and a system of locks. The height of the Three Gorges Dam is 185 meters (607 ft) above the sea level. The dam is about 2,300 meters (7,546 ft) long and about 115 meters (377 ft) wide.
China’s Three Gorges Dam is the world’s largest hydroelectric dam based on generating capacity. It is 1.3 miles wide, over 600 feet in height, and has a reservoir that stretches 405 square miles.