Healthy Carbs and Complex Carbohydrates List. Simple and complex carbohydrates can be misunderstood. Since whole fruit is a simple carb, it’s best to categorize carbs as either bad or good carbs. Here’s your complete good healthy carbohydrates list. The healthy carbohydrates list below is your best source for good carbs. Choosing bad carbs (instead of from this good carbs list) can rapidly undermine your health and sabotage your weight management goals.
Starchy Vegetables. Sweet Potato. Wheat. Wheat Berries. Whole-Grain (breads, cereals and flours). Remember, fruits and vegetables are simple carbohydrates that contain fiber, protein, vitamins and minerals, so they are more complex in nature. These are nutrient-dense foods that should be eaten daily
Products that contain a large portion of these staple ingredients are usually a good high complex carbohydrate source, see the second list. Still, the best way to provide your diet with complex carbohydrates is to consume foods in their most natural state such as oatmeal, bran and brown rice. The food list below shows healthy sources of processed complex carbohydrates.
Oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, potatoes, beans, peas and lentils are examples of complex carbs. Simple carbs are often softer in texture – white bread, white rice and baked goods. Soda, candy and other sweeteners like table sugar and honey are also simple carbs. Sweet Potato. Wheat. Wheat Berries. Whole-Grain (breads, cereals and flours). Remember, fruits and vegetables are simple carbohydrates that contain fiber, protein, vitamins and minerals, so they are more complex in nature.
It’s based on how much fiber is in the food and how fast the food’s sugars are absorbed into your blood stream. For more info about good, bad, simple and complex carbs, go to the Good Carbs List of Carbohydrates in Food, the Low Glycemic Diet of Low Glycemic Foods and the complete list of healthy High Fiber Foods. More CommonSenseHealth for You: How to Stop Emotional Eating. The healthy carbohydrates list below is your best source for good carbs. Choosing bad carbs (instead of from this good carbs list) can rapidly undermine your health and sabotage your weight management goals.
Vegetables, which contain a wide variety of vitamins and minerals, are the lowest calorie source of complex carbohydrates. Nutrient-dense vegetables such as kale, spinach, asparagus, broccoli and the rough surface mushrooms can be recognized as highly nutritious carbohydrates by their bright colors and strong flavors. Fruit juice is not a complex carbohydrate in that the fiber present in whole fruits has largely been removed from the juice. In fact, an 8-ounce glass of orange juice and an 8-ounce glass of soda contain the same 10 teaspoons of sugar, according to an analysis published by Harvard researchers.
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates
Excellent Sources of Complex Carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrate foods are basically those in wholegrain form such as wholegrain breads, oats, muesli and brown rice. Complex carbs are broken down into glucose more slowly than simple carbohydrates and thus provide a gradual steady stream of energy throughout the day. Still, the best way to provide your diet with complex carbohydrates is to consume foods in their most natural state such as oatmeal, bran and brown rice. The food list below shows healthy sources of processed complex c
Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are call