1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 
The average recommended temperature for a refrigerator is 35 - 38o F(degrees Fahrenheit) and 1.6-3.3 °C (degrees Celsius). Bacterial and mold growth are considerably slowed down at these temperatures, thus retarding food spoilage. Since water freezes at 0°C (32°F), this prevents fresh foods from freezing, although when the temperature is at the low end of the range, some areas in the refrigerator may be below the freezing point.
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. 
The ideal refrigerator temperature range is 1°-4.5°C (34°-40°F) . Bacterial and mold growth are considerably slowed down at these temperatures, thus retarding food spoilage. Since water freezes at 0°C (32°F), this prevents fresh foods from freezing, although when the temperature is at the low end of the range, some areas in the refrigerator may be below the freezing point.
For perishable foods, the maximum temperature would be 40°F (4.4°C). But vacuum-packaged seafood should not be above 38°F (3.3°C) due to the possibility of the formation o … f the botulism toxin.    Normally, higher settings will have the refrigerator run more efficiently since it won't have to run as hard to maintain the temperature. Bacterial and mold growth are considerably slowed down at these temperatures, thus retarding food spoilage. Since water freezes at 0°C (32°F), this prevents fresh foods from freezing, although when the temperature is at the low end of the range, some areas in the refrigerator may be below the freezing point.
Average temperature of a refrigerator is 35 - 38 degrees and -18 °C (0 °F) for the freezer. A household refrigerator should be maintained between 34 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit-just above freezing to maintain food quality but low enough to inhibit bacterial growth. Ideally your refrigerator should be at the correct temperature (less than 4°C). When the fridge is very full, turn thermostat to Colder setting. Freezer temperature should be maintained at minus 18°C. (Ice cream is a good indicator of freezer temperature: it should be firm.) Consult your fridge manufacturer's manual for advise on temperature control. Try not to keep opening the fridge door every few minutes.
1 Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. The Knowhow. 1  A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined.
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. A general purpose domestic fridge should be at around 1-4 °C (so, just above the freezing point, and below 5 °C). In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go.