The Clean Water Act of 1972 (CWA). The passage of the Clean Water Act (CWA) created a framework for regulating discharges into the waters in the United States and establishing water quality standards for surface waters. Under section 303(d) of the Clean Water Act, states, territories, and authorized tribes are required to develop lists of impaired waters. These are waters that are too polluted or otherwise degraded to meet the water quality standards set by states, territories, or authorized tribes.
Major amendments were enacted in 1961, 1966, 1970, 1972, 1977, and 1987. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1961 (P.L. 87-88) stipulated that Federal agencies consider during the planning for any reservoir, storage to regulate streamflow for the purpose of water quality control (33 U.S.C. 1252).
The Clean Water Act is a U.S. federal law that regulates the discharge of pollutants into the nation's surface waters, including lakes, rivers, streams, wetlands, and coastal areas. Passed in 1972 and amended in 1977 and 1987, the Clean Water Act was originally known as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. The original goal of the Clean Water Act was to eliminate the discharge of untreated waste water from municipal and industrial sources and thus make American waterways safe for swimming and fishing (the use of surface water for drinking purposes is covered under separate legislation, the Safe Drinking Water Act).
Growing public awareness and concern for controlling water pollution led to enactment of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ). As amended in 1977 (P.L. 95-217), this law became commonly known as the Clean Water Act (CWA). 
Clean water act-is essential to human health, productive economies, and robust ecosystems. The CWA is a comprehensive and technically rigorous piece of legislation that seeks to protect the nations navigable water ways from pollutions. EPA created the concept of a mixing zone to allow a discharge to disseminate and become diluted prior to water quality testing. A mixing zone is the distance extending 100 meters in all directions from the effluent discharge point.
The Clean Water Act (CWA) is the primary federal law in the United States governing water pollution. Its objective is to restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters by preventing point and nonpoint pollution sources, providing assistance to publicly owned treatment works for the improvement of wastewater treatment, and maintaining the integrity of wetlands.
Technically, the name of the law is the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. The first FWPCA was enacted in 1948, but took on its modern form when completely rewritten in 1972 in an act entitled the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972. Its objective is to restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters by preventing point and nonpoint pollution sources, providing assistance to publicly owned treatment works for the improvement of wastewater treatment, and maintaining the integrity of wetlands.
This area—health and welfare standards—is the only one of the three we are discussing that lacks a consistent pattern as to who sets the standards at issue. Under the Clean Air Act and RCRA, the federal government sets these standards. Under the Clean Water Act, however, states set water quality standards. Though the federal government must review and approve the standards, the scope of that review is probably more limited than in many other areas. Fundamentally, then, Congress has decided that all the regulatory requirements of the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and RCRA amount to national responsibilities that should be pursued whether or not the states agree with them.
Under sections 301 and 502 of the Clean Water Act, any discharge of dredged or fill materials into waters of the United States, including wetlands, is forbidden unless authorized by a permit issued by the USACE pursuant to section 404. Its objective is to restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters by preventing point and nonpoint pollution sources, providing assistance to publicly owned treatment works for the improvement of wastewater treatment, and maintaining the integrity of wetlands.
1 Water Quality Act of 1965 required states to issue water quality standards for interstate waters, and authorized the newly created Federal Water Pollution Control Administration to set standards where states failed to do so. Its objective is to restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters by preventing point and nonpoint pollution sources, providing assistance to publicly owned treatment works for the improvement of wastewater treatment, and maintaining the integrity of wetlands.