MalvaceaePlants of the Mallow Family If you have seen a hollyhock or hibiscus flower, then you can recognize the Mallow family. Wild species may be smaller, but you will know you have a Mallow when you find a funnel-shaped flower with 5 separate petals and a distinctive column of stamens surrounding the pistil. Some other members of the family can be used as marshmallow substitutes. The ground up root or seeds are covered with water and boiled until half the liquid is gone. Then the liquid is beaten to a froth and sugar is added. It should make something resembling whipped cream.
When cooked, the leaves create a mucus very similar to okra and can be used as a thickener to soups and stews. The flavour of the leaves is mild. Dried leaves can be used for tea. Mallow roots release a thick mucus when boiled in water. The thick liquid that is created can be beaten to make a meringue-like substitute for egg whites. Common mallow leaves are rich in vitamins A and C as well as calcium, magnesium, potassium, iron and selenium. Similar plants: Marshmallow.
The leaves, roots and flowers of the common mallow plant (Malva sylvestris) are all edible and have a long history of use in herbal medicine as a wild food source. Mallow or malva is a broad leaf plant, which is one of the reasons it makes a great one to harvest as a wild edible because you only need to pick about 10 or so for a meal-sized handful.
Mallow or malva comes from the large family of Malvaceae plants which also include okra, hibiscus and cotton. It is also referred to as cheeseweed in some parts of the world for its wedged rounded seed pods that look similar to a wheel of cheese. Mallow or malva is a broad leaf plant, which is one of the reasons it makes a great one to harvest as a wild edible because you only need to pick about 10 or so for a meal-sized handful.
Harvesting Mallow Leaves. Mallow or malva is a broad leaf plant, which is one of the reasons it makes a great one to harvest as a wild edible because you only need to pick about 10 or so for a meal-sized handful.
Mallow, also called common mallow, is a hardy wild strain, similar to dandelion, with over 25 different species coming from the Genus malva. It has a long resilient root system and thick taproot that can penetrate deep into the earth for its nutrients and water source. Mallow or malva is a broad leaf plant, which is one of the reasons it makes a great one to harvest as a wild edible because you only need to pick about 10 or so for a meal-sized handful.
To support our efforts please browse our store (books with medicinal info & subscriptions). The common mallow is part of the large family of Malvaceae plants that include cotton, okra and hibiscus. It is an edible plant that has been used for medicinal care as well as food. The fruits are round and have cheese-like wedges which give the common mallow its nickname, cheese plant. Mallow roots release a thick mucus when boiled in water. The thick liquid that is created can be beaten to make a meringue-like substitute for egg whites. Common mallow leaves are rich in vitamins A and C as well as calcium, magnesium, potassium, iron and selenium. Similar plants: Marshmallow.
Malva is a genus of about 25–30 species of herbaceous annual, biennial, and perennial plants in the family Malvaceae (of which it is the type genus), one of several closely related genera in the family to bear the common English name mallow. A number of species, previously considered to belong to Lavatera, have been moved to Malva. The leaves are alternate, palmately lobed. The flowers are from 0.5–5 cm diameter, with five pink or white petals. The colour mauve was in 1859 named after the French name for this plant.
Botanical: Malva rotundifolia. The Dwarf Mallow, a smaller variety than any of the other wild Mallows, is easily distinguishable by its prostrate stems and pale lilac flowers. Its leaves are heart-shaped and have also sometimes been used medicinally. [ Top ] MALLOW, TREE SEA
There are many different species of mallow all over the world that differ in size, shape, and taste. Although mallow is not widely recognized or used, America has it growing wild, too. While in Israel bull-mallow is the most prevalent variety, in California Malva neglecta, or common mallow, is more widespread. The small fruit is also edible and is particularly popular among children. “Mallow is the most important edible wild plant in the local gatherer society,” said Uri Mayer-Chissick, a doctor of local nutritional and medicinal traditions who’s been dubbed “ The Israeli Locavore .” “That’s evident from its name.