Group B streptococcus (group B strep) is a type of bacteria that causes infection among newborns, pregnant women or women after childbirth, females after gynecologic surgery, and older male and female patients with other serious diseases. 
Group B strep is not a sexually transmitted disease (STD) . The bacteria that causes group B strep normally lives in the intestines, vagina, or rectum, and approximately 25% of all healthy women carry group B strep bacteria. For most women there are no symptoms of carrying the GBS bacteria.
Also known as GBS or baby strep, group B strep disease in newborns most commonly causes sepsis (infection of the blood), pneumonia (infection in the lungs), and sometimes meningitis (infection of the fluid and lining around the brain). Group B Streptococcus (group B strep) is a type of bacteria that causes illness in people of all ages.
Streptococcal Infections (Group B) (Group B Strep) What is group B streptococcus (GBS)? Group B streptococcus (group B strep or GBS) is a type of bacteria that causes illness in newborn babies, pregnant women, the elderly, and adults with other illnesses, such as diabetes or liver disease. Pregnancy and Group B Strep The bacteria that cause GBS disease normally live in the intestine, vagina, or rectum. Approximately 25% (1 in 4) of pregnant women carry GBS bacteria in their vagina
Group B streptococcus infection (GBS), also known as strep B and group B strep, is infection with the bacteria Streptococcus. Group B streptococcal infection can cause serious illness and sometimes death, especially in newborn infants, the elderly, and people with compromised immune systems. The CAMP test is an important test for identification. GBS (group B Streptococcus species) are screened through this test.
Group B streptococcus (GBS) is a type of bacterial infection that can be found in a pregnant woman’s vagina or rectum. This bacteria is normally found in the vagina and/or rectum of about 25% of all healthy, adult women. Women who test positive for GBS are said to be colonized. The bacteria that causes group B strep normally lives in the intestines, vagina, or rectum, and approximately 25% of all healthy women carry group B strep bacteria. For most women there are no symptoms of carrying the GBS bacteria.
GBS bacteria are a normal part of the commonly found bacteria in the human body. Normally, the presence of GBS does not cause problems. In certain circumstances, however, Group B Strep bacteria can invade the body and cause serious infection; this is referred to as Group B Strep disease. Group B Strep should not be confused with Group A Strep, which causes strep throat. A person whose body carries Group B Strep bacteria but who does not show signs of infection is said to be colonized with Group B Strep.
Group B Streptococcus (GBS) is a type of bacteria that is found in the lower intestine of 10-35% of all healthy adults and in the vagina and/or lower intestine of 10-35% of all healthy, adult women. Group B Strep should not be confused with Group A Strep, which causes strep throat. A person whose body carries Group B Strep bacteria but who does not show signs of infection is said to be colonized with Group B Strep. GBS colonization is not contagious
Group B Strep Infection Cause. Group B strep infections are caused by bacteria from the species and genus Streptococcus agalactiae. Streptococci were divided into groups in 1933 by mixing the strains with antibodies that were produced in rabbits. Group B strep is a cause of infection in pregnant women. The organism may infect the bloodstream or the uterus. Older children and nonpregnant adults, especially older adults in nursing homes, may also get infections with group B strep. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 9/1/2015.
Group B strep infection is the most common cause of sepsis and meningitis in the United States during a newborn's first week of life. Group B strep infection can also afflict nonpregnant adults with certain chronic medical conditions, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity, and cancer. The incidence of GBS infection in adults increases with age, with the highest rate in adults 65 years of age and older (20-25 cases per 100,000). Group B strep facts. 1  Group B strep are bacteria found normally in the intestine, vagina, and rectal area in about 25% of all healthy women. 2  Group B strep infections can affect neonates and adults. 3  Most pregnant women who are colonized by the bacteria have no symptoms.