enfrente I looked at the director, sitting opposite mire miré al director que estaba sentado (enfrente de); mi mí please fill in the box opposite, por favor rellene la casilla de al ladothey live directly or immediately opposite viven justo enfrente she drew up a chair opposite and sat down opposite is. the church 2 (across from) frente a; enfrente de. opposite the library frente a or enfrente de la biblioteca; Lynn was sitting opposite him Lynn estaba sentada frente a el él or enfrente de; el él they sat opposite one another se sentaron uno(frente) a; l otro se sentaron frente. a frente
Spanish Class Online Vocabulary Opposites. Top 36 Most Common Words The Complete List Some of our Spanish Class Online vocabulary lists are divided into two sections: The Top 25 Most Common Words (in this case 36), and The Complete List. All games, activity sheets, practice tests, puzzles, etc. utilize only the words from The Top 25 (36) list. Our Handout Masters contain both lists.
1 Opposite Spanish Words (Spanish Vocabulary) To download more Learning Spanish Materials, visit: http://www.esdict.com/ We collected about 50 pairs of opposite Spanish words. This list, together with other lists, hopefully can help you build up your Spanish vocabulary. 
Insensible is not the opposite of sensible. If someone behaves in a way that is not sensible, you do not say that they are 'insensible'. You say, for example, that they or their actions are silly or foolish. You're a silly little boy. insensible. adj. 1. lacking sensation or consciousness. 2. (foll by: of or to) unaware (of) or indifferent (to): insensible to suffering.
I looked at the director, sitting opposite mire miré al director que estaba sentado (enfrente de); mi mí please fill in the box opposite, por favor rellene la casilla de. al lado they live directly or immediately opposite viven. justo enfrente 2 (across from) frente a; enfrente de. opposite the library frente a or enfrente de la biblioteca; Lynn was sitting opposite him Lynn estaba sentada frente a el él or enfrente de; el él they sat opposite one another se sentaron uno(frente) a; l otro se sentaron frente. a frente
the children and I were facing the opposite way we were facing the opposite way, and I couldn't see what they were doing they were facing the opposite way (to me) he stood on the opposite bank the man opposite lifted down her case `see map on opposite page'. 2 (far) [+end, corner] opuesto. 2 (across from) frente a; enfrente de. opposite the library frente a or enfrente de la biblioteca; Lynn was sitting opposite him Lynn estaba sentada frente a el él or enfrente de; el él they sat opposite one another se sentaron uno(frente) a; l otro se sentaron frente. a frente
I think that antonyms are specifically words with opposite meanings. I think that opposites are opposing ideas. It may be a semantic difference, but I really am asking for opposites as they are taught to children. (Seriously!) Like on Sesame Street. 
Sunset Valley. The Frio brothers may have a nice house, but they have personality issues which make them less than ideal as boyfriend material. If you look in Claire Ursine's family tree, her baby's father is Jared Frio. The Frio Family consists of two young adult brothers, Connor and Jared, who are completely different from each other. Connor is lonely and quiet, while Jared is outgoing yet mean to his friends.
In their description it says that both of them are cool, in different ways, and Frio in Spanish and Portuguese literally translates into cold. The Frio brothers are somewhat the opposites of The Sims 2 Caliente sisters as in Spanish caliente means hot but Frio translates to the opposite of it. There is a Sim in Lunar Lakes named Paulo Frio, and his relation to the family is unknown. If you look in Claire Ursine's family tree, her baby's father is Jared Frio. The Frio Family consists of two young adult brothers, Connor and Jared, who are completely different from each other. Connor is lonely and quiet, while Jared is outgoing yet mean to his friends.
the difference is that in Spanish you reply with the same verb 'hacer' instead of swapping as we do in English to the verb 'to be' - it's cold. In Spanish you could answer: hace frio-frío it is/doing making-cold or the equivalent of Our-english it is. cold Literally it means it it cold, but it is translated as it's cold outside. b. Literally it means they make cold, but it is translated as it's cold. c. Literally it means it made cold, but it is translated as it's cold. d. Literally it means it makes