Full Definition of MODEL. transitive verb. 1. : to plan or form after a pattern: shape. 2. archaic: to make into an organization (as an army, government, or parish). 3. a: to shape or fashion in a plastic material. 4. 5. 
An interpretation function which assigns a truth value to each atomic proposition. model (Noun). An interpretation which makes a certain sentence true, in which case that interpretation is called a model of that sentence. model (Noun). A particular style, design, or make of a particular product. Model (noun). something intended to serve, or that may serve, as a pattern of something to be made; a material representation or embodiment of an ideal; sometimes, a drawing; a plan; as, the clay model of a sculpture; the inventor's model of a machine.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of role model): apotheosis; ideal; nonesuch; nonpareil; nonsuch; paragon; saint (model of excellence or perfection of a kind; one having no equal). fashion arbiter; taste-maker; trend-setter (someone who popularizes a new fashion). 
The sculptor modelled the clay into the form of a dolphin. model (Verb). To make a model or models. model (Verb). To be a model of any kind. The actress used to model before being discovered by Hollywood. model (Noun). An identifier of a product given by its manufacturer (also called model number). Model (noun). something intended to serve, or that may serve, as a pattern of something to be made; a material representation or embodiment of an ideal; sometimes, a drawing; a plan; as, the clay model of a sculpture; the inventor's model of a machine.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of model): simulation (the act of imitating the behavior of some situation or some process by means of something suitably analogous (especially for the purpose of study or personnel training)). • MODEL (adjective). Troponyms (each of the following is one way to model): scale (pattern, make, regulate, set, measure, or estimate according to some rate or standard). sovietise; sovietize (model a country's social, political, and economic structure on the Soviet Union).
In probability and statistics, mean and expected value are used synonymously to refer to one measure of the central tendency either of a probability distribution or of the random variable characterized by that distribution. Not every probability distribution has a defined mean; see the Cauchy distribution for an example. Moreover, for some distributions the mean is infinite: for example, when the probability of the value is for n = 1, 2, 3, ....
Since the word Modelo is a brand name it is improper to tra … nslate it. The word Negra (and Negro) literally means Black in English. In this case it refers to a dark beer or ale, so Dark is the best translation. The word modelo literally means model in English. The word is always modelo whether it's referring to a female, male, or inanimate model of any kind. + 18 others found this useful. 
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of model): loadstar; lodestar (something that serves as a model or guide). epitome; image; paradigm; prototype (a standard or typical example). holotype; type specimen (the original specimen from which the description of a new species is made). Troponyms (each of the following is one way to model): scale (pattern, make, regulate, set, measure, or estimate according to some rate or standard). sovietise; sovietize (model a country's social, political, and economic structure on the Soviet Union).
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: model (Noun). A person who serves as a subject for artwork or fashion, usually in the medium of photography but also for painting or drawing. The beautiful model had her face on the cover of almost every fashion magazine imaginable. Model (noun). something intended to serve, or that may serve, as a pattern of something to be made; a material representation or embodiment of an ideal; sometimes, a drawing; a plan; as, the clay model of a sculpture; the inventor's model of a machine.