Scientists who study vacuoles also define them as the terminal product of the secretory pathway. The secretory pathway functions to transport protein and metabolite-containing membrane vesicles from sites of synthesis or uptake to the vacuole. Vacuole. An intracellular compartment, bounded by a single membrane bilayer, which functions as a primary site of protein and metabolite degradation and recycling in animals, but serves additional complex functions in fungi and plants (see illustration).
Etymology: L, vacuus, empty. 1 a clear or fluid-filled space or cavity within a cell, such as occurs when a droplet of water is ingested by the cytoplasm. 2 a small space in the body enclosed by a membrane, usually containing fat, secretions, or cellular debris. vacuolar, vacuolated, adj. a space or cavity in the protoplasm of a cell. contractile vacuole a small fluid-filled cavity in the protoplasm of certain unicellular organisms. It gradually increases in size and then collapses; its function is thought to be respiratory and excretory.
vacuole. a space or cavity in the protoplasm of a cell. contractile vacuole a small fluid-filled cavity in the protoplasm of certain unicellular organisms. It gradually increases in size and then collapses; its function is thought to be respiratory and excretory.
n. 1. A membrane-bound organelle in the cytoplasm of most cells, especially plant cells, containing water and dissolved substances such as salts, sugars, enzymes, and amino acids. 2. A small extracellular cavity or space within tissues. [French, from Latin. , empty; see vacuum .]. vac′u·o′lar (-ō′lər, -laer′) lär. adj
a space or cavity in the cytoplasm of a cell. contractile vacuole. a small fluid-filled cavity in the cytoplasm of certain unicellular organisms; it gradually increases in size and then collapses; its function is thought to be respiratory and excretory. a space or cavity in the protoplasm of a cell. contractile vacuole a small fluid-filled cavity in the protoplasm of certain unicellular organisms. I
Most mature plant cells have one large vacuole that typically occupies more than 30% of the cell's volume, and that can occupy as much as 80% of the volume for certain cell types and conditions. The function and significance of vacuoles varies greatly according to the type of cell in which they are present, having much greater prominence in the cells of plants, fungi and certain protists than those of animals and bacteria. In general, the functions of the vacuole include: 1  Isolating materials that might be harmful or a threat to the cell. 2  Containing waste products. 3  Containing water in plant cell
A vacuole (/ˈvaekjuːoʊl/) ˈvækjuːoʊl is a-membrane bound organelle which is present in all plant and fungal cells and some, protist animal and bacterial. cells The function and significance of vacuoles varies greatly according to the type of cell in which they are present, having much greater prominence in the cells of plants, fungi and certain protists than those of animals and bacteria. In general, the functions of the vacuole include: 1  Isolating materials that might be harmful or a threat to the cell. 2  Containing waste products. 3  Containing water in plant cells.
noun. 1 A space or vesicle within the cytoplasm of a cell, enclosed by a membrane and typically containing fluid. Example sentences. 1  In slowly dried tissues, considerable cell wall folding had occurred, there was substantial subdivision of the vacuoles and some plasma membrane withdrawal from the cell walls. 1.1 A small cavity or space in tissue, especially in nervous tissue as the result of disease. Example sentences. 1  Interestingly, in both ventricles myocytes adjacent to the adipose tissue showed multiple sarcoplasmic vacuoles.