The Drakensberg Escarpment divides Mpumalanga into a westerly half consisting mainly of high-altitude grassland called the Highveld and an eastern half situated in low altitude subtropical Lowveld / Bushveld, mostly savanna habitat. The southern half of the Kruger National Park is in the latter region. The Drakensberg exceeds heights of 2000m in most places with this central region of Mpumalanga being very mountainous. These regions have alpine grasslands and small pockets of Afromontane Forest. In the north it borders on Limpopo, to the west Gauteng, to the southwest the Free State and to the south KwaZulu-Natal. The capital is Nelspruit. Before 1994, Mpumalanga was part of Transvaal Province.
[fɛlt]) comes from the Afrikaans word for 'field'. The etymological origin is older Dutch veldt, a spelling that the Dutch abandoned in favour of veld during the 19th century, decades before the first Afrikaans dictionary. Temperature is closely related to elevation. In general, the mean July (winter) temperatures range between 45 °F (7 °C) in the Lesotho Highlands and 60 °F (16 °C) in the Lowveld. January (summer) temperatures range between 65 °F (18 °C) and 80 °F (27 °C).
A map of South Africa showing the Great Escarpment and its relation to the Highveld, Lowveld and Lesotho Highlands. The portion of the Great Escarpment that is colored red is known as the Drakensberg. It forms the only well defined boundary of the Lesotho Highlands and the Low-and Highveld. The west-and southward extents of all three of these areas is arbitrary. The term Lowveld is used only in South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe. Temperature is closely related to elevation. In general, the mean July (winter) temperatures range between 45 °F (7 °C) in the Lesotho Highlands and 60 °F (16 °C) in the Lowveld. January (summer) temperatures range between 65 °F (18 °C) and 80 °F (27 °C).
Although several of the towns on the game park fringes are pleasant enough, most people come here to get into big-game country. Largest of the lowveld towns, and the capital of Mpumalanga, is Nelspruit, accessible by air and bus (including buses from Maputo in Mozambique). The R40 north of the provincial capital passes through White River, Hazyview, Klaserie, Hoedspruit and Phalaborwa, a series of small towns that act as bases for exploring Kruger. Each town is well supplied with accommodation, and has a Kruger entrance gate nearby; tours are available from some.
One of the main reasons to visit Nelspruit, the Lowveld National Botanical Garden lies just outside of town, a beautiful 159 hectare space dominated by rugged, rocky river scenery, and home to over 600 naturally occurring plant species, and a further 2000 that have been introduced to the ... A must to play when visiting the Kruger National Park and this outstanding tourist area and the busiest golf course in the region. The course offers all indgenous Lowveld trees and over 256 different species of birds. The Nelspruit Golf Club is host to the annual Jock of the Bushveld Festival of golf when hundreds ...
Lowveld Accommodation. The Lowveld region in Mpumalanga is a bush-clad plain that slopes gently upward to the Lebombo Mountains on the Mozambique boundary in the northeast. Hoedspruit, Lowveld. Do yourself a favour-Pat's Pad is THE place to book-the unit has all the amenities needed: pool [secured] flat screen full dstv; aircons; beautiful views; quiet/secluded; water hole for animals. This is a truly ...
Lowveld Legogote, Mpumalanga. Once you've booked your hotel or Lowveld accommodation explore our destination pages below for info on attractions and what to do in the Lowveld Legogote. The Lowveld is home to the seat of the provincial administration in Nelspruit, White River and the township KaNyamazane. A must to play when visiting the Kruger National Park and this outstanding tourist area and the busiest golf course in the region. The course offers all indgenous Lowveld trees and over 256 different species of birds. The Nelspruit Golf Club is host to the annual Jock of the Bushveld Festival of golf when hundreds ...
The Lowveld is situated in the Mpumalanga province of South Africa. The Lowveld is situated in the Mpumalanga province of South Africa. Mpumalanga means 'place where the sun rises' and this is well suited, as Mpumalanga is South Africa's eastern most province. Nelspruit is the provincial capital and it serves as a gateway to the Lowveld. Restricted to broad valleys below 1 000m above sea level, the Lowveld is what many people consider to be the 'real'
In the Mpumalanga Lowveld you will find the oldest dolomite caves in the world, the famous Sudwala Caves and the Lowveld National Botanical Garden with an enormous collection of cycads and an African rainforest. A must to play when visiting the Kruger National Park and this outstanding tourist area and the busiest golf course in the region. The course offers all indgenous Lowveld trees and over 256 different species of birds. The Nelspruit Golf Club is host to the annual Jock of the Bushveld Festival of golf when hundreds ...
The lowveld. South Africa’s lowveld, wedged between the Mpumalanga section of the Drakensberg and Mozambique, is part of a vast subtropical region of savanna that stretches north through Zimbabwe and Zambia as far as Central Africa. The R40 north of the provincial capital passes through White River, Hazyview, Klaserie, Hoedspruit and Phalaborwa, a series of small towns that act as bases for exploring Kruger. Each town is well supplied with accommodation, and has a Kruger entrance gate nearby; tours are available from some.