Create a new text message. On the File menu, click New, and then click Text Message. Enter the recipient's e-mail address or mobile phone number in the To box. To search for a recipient in an address book, click the To button. Type your message in the message body. If you want, you can insert emoticons in your message. Send a text message. To send a text message that you have created, you need to specify its recipients. You can either choose recipients from one of your address books, or enter them directly into the To box of your message. Enter recipient information. Do one of the following.
To forward a text message, on Android phones and iPhone, tap and hold the message to forward then select the option to forward the message. On other cell phones, the option to forward will probably be under options or a similar menu. Enter the phone number to send the message to and click Send. 1 Check your cell phone plan to see how much text messaging or texting costs. 2  If you don't have a plan that includes texting, each message you send or receive will cost a small amount (around $0.20 per message, but more if you send a text message while roaming internationally or if you send an international text message).
1 Keep in mind that most phones allow for 2 kinds of text messages to be sent: SMS, usually sent from a mobile phone to another phone activated on the same network, or email, which can be sent to any Internet email address. 2  Go to your phone's messages menu. 1 Ask your correspondents for their phone's email. 2  To easily exchange messages with a regular Internet correspondent, ask him to send SMS to your phone and reply to that text message. 3  Your cell phone should handle the correct reply address.
1 You can send a text message to any modern cell phone even if you use a different wireless provider. 2  Each text message is limited to 160 characters, including spaces. 3  If you try to send a message over 160 characters, your message will be split into several messages and delivered separately, right after each other. 1 Check your cell phone plan to see how much text messaging or texting costs. 2  If you don't have a plan that includes texting, each message you send or receive will cost a small amount (around $0.20 per message, but more if you send a text message while roaming internationally or if you send an international text message).
Here is a walkthrough on how to send a text message to another person's cell phone on my older model LG cell phone, which isn't a new smart phone with handy features for texting like a full keyboard. 1. Go to phone's main Menu and select Messaging option. 2. Select Text Messages (some might see Send SMS) and then select Write message.. 3. Now your ready to type your short message. Enter words by typing the corresponding letters on each numeric key on your phone's keypad. Type the key for each letter repeatedly and quickly until the letter you want appears. 
Text messaging (SMS) Send text messages (SMS) to one or more wireless devices from Outlook. With the Outlook text message interface, you can choose recipients from your Outlook address book, type a message, add emoticons, and then preview the message on a simulated phone screen before clicking Send. To send a text message (SMS): On the Home tab, in the New group, click New Items, and then click Text Message (SMS) . In the Text Message window, type or choose a recipient, and then type your message.
To send text messages, you'll need to scroll down your contact list to add everybody that you would like to send that particular text message to. Discover how to send text messages with guidance from a cell phone customer service representative in this free video on text messaging. Expert: Jordan Carlman. 
4. Write your message. When you select the blinking cursor in the messaging field, your keyboard should pop up. Use the keyboard to type out the message you'd like to send. 1  Alternatively, you can select the Microphone icon near the keyboard on the iPhone to send a voice-activated message. 6. Send a picture or video if you want to. Select the Camera icon to the left of the message field on an Apple product, or select Send Picture under your messaging options on another phone to send a picture message. You can either select a photo that you've already taken on your phone, or take a new photo to send.
How to Send a Text from Your Phone. Cell phones and smartphones will differ in the menu options and buttons, but in general, the process of sending a text message to someone else's phone is pretty straightforward. From your phone's main menu find the Messages or Messaging option or application. 1 Check your cell phone plan to see how much text messaging or texting costs. 2  If you don't have a plan that includes texting, each message you send or receive will cost a small amount (around $0.20 per message, but more if you send a text message while roaming internationally or if you send an international text message).
Text messaging from your cell phone is a quick and easy way to stay in touch. Anyone can learn how to send a text message on a cell phone with practice and some patience. Eventually, sending a text message can eventually feel as natural as sending an e-mail or talking on the phone. 6. Send a picture or video if you want to. Select the Camera icon to the left of the message field on an Apple product, or select Send Picture under your messaging options on another phone to send a picture message. You can either select a photo that you've already taken on your phone, or take a new photo to send.