A therapy dog is a dog trained to provide affection and comfort to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and to people with autism. Therapy dogs are usually not assistance or service dogs, but can be one or both with some organizations. 
Therapy animal services are used by a variety of facilities, such as hospitals, elder care, assisted-living, hospice, shelters, schools, libraries, and more. No matter the setting, the goal is to bring positive results, whether helping with a specific therapeutic objective, or simply brightening someone's day. 
Therapy animals are reliable, controllable, and predictable pets that enjoy visiting hospitals, nursing homes, classrooms, libraries and other facilities. * The ASPCA’s program deals with dogs and cats, but Pet Partners registers a variety of other companion animals. Animal Assisted Activities and Therapy present unique situations, environments, and people for you and your dog. These fun and interactive classes will teach you the handling skills necessary for animal assisted therapy visits, with a special focus on what you will need to know for your Evaluation.
Animal assisted therapy (AAT) is a type of therapy that incorporates animals in the treatment of a person; especially elderly people in nursing homes or long term care (LTC) facilities. Although animal assisted therapy has been considered a new way to deal with depression, anxiety, Autism, and childhood aliments such as Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, there has been criticism as to the effectiveness of the process.
The third type of therapy animal is called a Facility Therapy Animal . These animals primarily work in nursing homes and are often trained to help keep patients with Alzheimer's disease or other mental illness from getting into trouble. Therapy animals are privately owned and tend to visit facilities on a regular basis. A therapy animal is only half of the equation, however. A responsible, caring handler is an important member of the therapy animal team. At the end of a visit, therapy animals go home with their owners
Pet therapy is a broad term that includes animal-assisted therapy and other animal-assisted activities. Animal-assisted therapy is a growing field that uses dogs or other animals to help people recover from or better cope with health problems, such as heart disease, cancer and mental health disorders. Imagine you're in the hospital. Your doctor mentions the hospital's animal-assisted therapy program and asks if you'd be interested. You say yes, and your doctor arranges for someone to tell you more about the program.
All About Therapy Animals. Therapy Animals. Many people confuse Therapy Animals with Service Dogs. A therapy animal is most commonly a dog (but can be other species) that has been obedience trained and screened for its ability to interact favorably with humans and other animals. Therapy animals are privately owned and tend to visit facilities on a regular basis. A therapy animal is only half of the equation, however. A responsible, caring handler is an important member of the therapy animal team. At the end of a visit, therapy animals go home with their owner
Our Therapy Animal Program. The Therapy Animal Program demonstrates that positive human-animal interventions improve the physical, emotional and psychological lives of those we serve. Our nearly 11,000 volunteers throughout all 50 states share their time and the love of their animal through animal-assisted interventions
Animal-assisted therapy (AAT) is a type of therapy that involves animals as a form of treatment. The goal of AAT is to improve a patient’s social, emotional, or cognitive functioning. Although animal assisted therapy has been considered a new way to deal with depression, anxiety, Autism, and childhood aliments such as Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, there has been criticism as to the effectiveness of the process.