Containment cooling. Do not build a new data center without some form of containment cooling. It is one of the easiest and most effective ways to improve cooling effectiveness and energy efficiency ever seen in the data center. Many existing data centers also benefit significantly from a containment retrofit. 
The electricity that powers a data center ultimately turns into heat. Most data centers use chillers or air conditioning units to cool things down, requiring 30-70% overhead in energy usage. At Google data centers, we often use water as an energy-efficient way to cool instead. One of the simplest ways to save energy in a data center is to raise the temperature. It’s a myth that data centers need to be kept chilly. According to expert recommendations and most IT equipment manufacturers' specifications, data center operators can safely raise their cold aisle to 80°F or higher.
Staff Retreats From Heat. During these periods, the temperature inside the data center can rise above 95 degrees. That’s when the humans leave the server area. “We’ve been operating in Belgium since 2008 with no chillers,” said Joe Kava, Senior Director of Data Center Operations for Google. The Google data center in Belgium, which features no chillers and routes traffic to other facilities during hot spells. (Photo from Google). Raising the temperature in server racks can make a data center more efficient.
The biggest players in the data center industry are raising the thermostats in their data centers, with some saving hundreds of thousands of dollars in energy costs in the process. The latest company to focus attention on temperature in the data center is Google. “The guidance we give to data center operators is to raise the thermostat,” said Erik Teetzel, an Energy Program Manager at Google.
There is a trend to modernize data centers in order to take advantage of the performance and energy efficiency increases of newer IT equipment and capabilities, such as cloud computing. This process is also known as data center transformation. In May 2011, data center research organization Uptime Institute reported that 36 percent of the large companies it surveyed expect to exhaust IT capacity within the next 18 months. Data center transformation takes a step-by-step approach through integrated projects carried out over time.
Arguments for: 1  Inlet air and exhaust air frequently mix in a data center. Temperatures are kept low to offset this mixing and to keep the server inlet temperature within ASHRAE’s recommended range. 2  Raising the temperature could exacerbate already-existing hotspots. Arguments against: 1  Raising the data center temperature is part of an efficiency program. 2  The temperature increase must follow best practices in airflow management: using blanking panels, sealing cable cutouts, eliminating cable obstructions under the raised floor, and implementing some form of air containment.
Data center environmental control is a constructive generic framework for maintaining temperature, humidity, and other physical qualities of air within a specific range in order to allow the equipment housed in a data center to perform optimally throughout its lifespan. Air flow management addresses the need to improve data center computer cooling efficiency by preventing the recirculation of hot air exhausted from IT equipment and reducing bypass airflow.
Intel recently conducted a 10-month test to evaluate the impact of using only outside air (also known as air-side economization) to cool a high-density data center in New Mexico, where the temperature ranged from 64 degrees to as high as 92 degrees. The latest company to focus attention on temperature in the data center is Google. “The guidance we give to data center operators is to raise the thermostat,” said Erik Teetzel, an Energy Program Manager at Google.
Air conditioning is used to control the temperature and humidity in the data center. ASHRAE 's Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments recommends a temperature range of 18–27 °C (64–81 °F), a dew point range of 5–15 °C (41–59 °F), and a maximum relative humidity of 60% for data center environments. In May 2011, data center research organization Uptime Institute reported that 36 percent of the large companies it surveyed expect to exhaust IT capacity within the next 18 months. Data center transformation takes a step-by-step approach through integrated projects carried out over time.
The peak operating temperature Google’s Belgium data center reaches is 95 degrees Fahrenheit. It is governed by how hot it is outside, and when it reaches those temperature staff can no longer remain in the same areas as the servers. By comparison, a typical data center runs at temperatures as low as 68 degrees. 