Top 10 facts about the world. Environmental technology refers to the field of science concerned with reducing the human impact on the environment through technological advances or improvements. Basic economic factors are often a spur to advances in environmental technology. This is due in part to the fact that cost-saving solutions are usually the most efficient. Cost increases of fuels such as gasoline, for instance, have led to technology aimed at reducing fuel consumption.
Program Information. The A.S. in Environmental Science Technology degree program focuses on environmental issues, laboratory and field testing, and workplace safety with the opportunity for specialization in assessment and safety compliance, hazardous materials, or water quality. The Associate in Science in Environmental Science Technology degree will provide students with the real-world training they need to become a leader in this important and recession-proof career. Our world is growing more complex and the field of environmental science is more important than ever before.
How to Apply. The A.S. in Environmental Science Technology degree program focuses on environmental issues, laboratory and field testing, and workplace safety with the opportunity for specialization in assessment and safety compliance, hazardous materials, or water quality. The Associate in Science in Environmental Science Technology degree will provide students with the real-world training they need to become a leader in this important and recession-proof career. Our world is growing more complex and the field of environmental science is more important than ever before.
Environmental engineering can also be described as a branch of applied science and technology that addresses the issue of energy preservation, production asset and control of waste from human and animal activities. Environmental engineers study the effect of technological advances on the environment. To do so, they conduct studies on hazardous-waste management to evaluate the significance of such hazards, advise on treatment and containment, and develop regulations to prevent mishaps.
Environmental Science Technology (A.S.). Chemistry, geology, hazardous materials and environmental health. The Associate in Science in Environmental Science Technology degree will provide students with the real-world training they need to become a leader in this important and recession-proof career. Our world is growing more complex and the field of environmental science is more important than ever before.
The Bachelor of Science degree in Agricultural and Environmental Systems (AES degree) provides a technical program focused on applying advancements in engineering technology to an agricultural and environmentally challenged society. Precision farming is a necessity. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. See also: Ecological engineering. Environmental engineering is the integration of sciences and engineering principles to improve the natural environment, to provide healthy water, air, and land for human habitation and for other organisms, and to clean up pollution sites. Environmental engineers study the effect of technological advances on the environment. To do so, they conduct studies on hazardous-waste management to evaluate the significance of such hazards, advise on treatment and containment, and develop regulations to prevent mishaps.
Environmental technology example-Green roof. With all that can be at stake for us with climate change and dwindling resources, the use of environmental technology is paramount to our moving forward in a sensible, sustainable manner. Peace my friends!
Split and merge into it. Answer by Candycraver. Confidence votes 264. Environmental technology is the application of natural sciences to conserve the natural resources and to control or lessen the impacts of human involvement. 
So-called sustainable or green design refers to the planned use of environmental technology in constructing new buildings that have minimal environmental impact. Environmental science also deals with diverse topics related to human and environmental health, such as waste management, toxicology, and wildlife protection. Basic economic factors are often a spur to advances in environmental technology. This is due in part to the fact that cost-saving solutions are usually the most efficient. Cost increases of fuels such as gasoline, for instance, have led to technology aimed at reducing fuel consumption.