The system of nomenclature used today is based on the binomial system of nomenclature, developed by Linnaeus in the late 1700's. The binomial system of nomenclature is structured so that the scientific name of a plant consists of two names: (1) the genus or generic name, and (2) the specific epithet or species name. There are rules to follow when writing a scientific name. Genus Name The genus name is written first. 
3. Use full scientific name when it first appears, then abbreviate generic name afterwards. Suggestions on the Use of Scientific Names: 1. Whenever a scientific name is used, it should be accompanied by two other names (ifavailable), i.e. common name and local or vernacular name. 2. On the other hand, an organismmay have many common names and numerous other vernacular or local names in manylanguages. Furthermore, the same common or local name may be referred to two or moredifferent organisms. However, it is quite difficult for the laymen to write/use scientific names.
Guidelines in Writing Scientific Names: 1. Capitalize first letter of generic name, while the rest, including the whole of specificepithet, in small case. Leave a single space between generic name and specific epithet. In casewhere the author’s name is to be included, use standard abbreviation for the authors’ name. On the other hand, an organismmay have many common names and numerous other vernacular or local names in manylanguages. Furthermore, the same common or local name may be referred to two or moredifferent organisms. However, it is quite difficult for the laymen to write/use scientific names.
Proper Presentation of Genus and Species. The way in which scientific names are written is also very important. You can always refer to scientific papers, your textbook, and (hopefully) your lab manual for proper examples. Each named species of living thing is always referred to by its genus and species name, never the species name alone. Two examples are a common bacterium, Escherichia coli and humans, Homo sapien
Science writing and editing: How to write scientific names. The Latin scientific name of a species, be it plant, animal, bacterium, fungus, etc., is a two-part name consisting of the genus name first (by the way: one genus, two genera) and the species name second. For example, the domestic cat is known as Felis catus. A common name that is derived from a genus name, such as gorilla, is not capitalized either (see Chicago 8.126). Below the level of species there are subspecies and varieties. When referring to an unidentified species, use the abbreviation “sp.”: The meadow contained several sedge plants (Carex sp.).
The common cold (also known as nasopharyngitis, rhinopharyngitis, acute coryza, head cold, or simply a cold) is a viral infectious disease of the upper respiratory tract which primarily affects the nose. No cure for the common cold exists, but the symptoms can be treated. It is the most frequent infectious disease in humans with the average adult getting two to three colds a year and the average child getting between six and twelve. These infections have been with humanity since ancient times.
Scientific names are also designed to tell you something about the animal's relationships with other animals. The scientific name of each species is made up of a generic name (generic epithet) and a specific name (specific epithet). In our bluegill sunfish example the generic epithet is Lepomis and the specific epithet is macrochirus. 
The system of nomenclature used today is based on the binomial system of nomenclature, developed by Linnaeus in the late 1700's. The binomial system of nomenclature is structured so that the scientific name of a plant consists of two names: (1) the genus or generic name, and (2) the specific epithet or species name. There are rules to follow when writing a scientific name. 