Paprika comes from dried and ground chile peppers, capsicum annuum, which originated in southern Mexico. Capsicum is a member of the nightshade family which also includes potatoes and tomatoes. Christopher Columbus is credited with bringing the chile to Europe. 
Just like the spice you know and love. Low and behold, paprika does not come from a nut, or a leaf, or from some magical volcano in the South Pacific. It comes from a variety of dried and ground peppers (or as my Hungarian ancestors would say, paprikas). The rest of the world – specifically Spain and Hungary – however, refer to sweet and chili peppers by a more proper name, which is none other than…you guessed it…paprika, or pimenton. Pimentón just like the spice you know and. love
Paprika originally comes from Hungary (But was brought to Hungary in the 17th century by the Turks) But the Turks got it from the Spanish who got it from the South and Centra … l American Indians in the 15th century. They are a New World plant and food as are the rest of most of the chili or other peppers in the world. 1 Paprika Recipes Paprika is a spice made from chili peppers or from a blend of chili peppers and bell peppers that have been dried. 2  It is a spice that derives from Spain and Hungary and is us….
Paprika is a spice made from air-dried fruits of the chili pepper family of the species Capsicum annuum. Although paprika is often associated with Hungarian cuisine, the chilies from which it is made are native to the New World, introduced to the Old World from the Americas. The seasoning is also used to add color and flavor to many types of dishes. The plant that makes the Hungarian version of the spice was grown from 1529 by the Turks at Buda (now part of the capital of Hungary, Budapest). The first recorded use of the word paprika in English is from 1896, although an earlier reference to Turkish paprika was published in 1831.
Paprika originally comes from Hungary (But was brought to Hungary in the 17th century by the Turks). But the Turks got it from the Spanish who got it from the South and Central American Indians in the 15th century. They are a New World plant and food as are the rest of most of the chili or other peppers in the world. Paprika is a spice made from the grinding of dried fruits of Capsicum annuum (e.g., bell peppers or chili peppers). In many European languages, the wordpaprika refers to bell … peppers themselves. The seasoning is used in many cuisines to add color and flavor to dishes. Paprika can range from mild to hot.
Most commercial paprika comes from Spain, South America, California and Hungary. Although Hungary is a highly regarded source, Spain produces more than half of the paprika imported into the United States. I never knew where Paprika came from and I think that it is very good for children to know this. Paprika is a true capsicum commonly found in powdered form, made by grinding dried, aromatic, sweet red peppers, usually the Tomato pepper. Most commercial brands come from Spain, South America, California, and Hungary
1 5 Ways to Use Paprika Spice Paprika is a spice that has Hungarian roots, but is now commonly used in a variety of cuisines. 2  The spice is most common in dishes from Portugal, Turkey, Greece, Spain, Moroc…. 3  Chicken Breasts in Creamy Paprika Sauce Paprika sauce is often associated in Hungarian and Spanish cooking. 1 Paprika Recipes Paprika is a spice made from chili peppers or from a blend of chili peppers and bell peppers that have been dried. 2  It is a spice that derives from Spain and Hungary and is us….
Paprika is basically the Hungarian word for pepper. Hungarian paprika is made by grinding up dried sweet red bell peppers (Capsicum annuum); other types of paprika may use other kinds of pepper. Hungarian smoked paprika is more authentic in a goulash. Report Abuse. As the others have said, paprika is made from peppers. I always buy the sweet Hungarian. That's what I use in my goulash. I also think the hot would be scary. After you make your goulash using the sweet, you can sample the sauce.