Arborvitae/White Cedar (Thuja). You ll be hard pressed to find a selection of our native arborvitae that matures in that ideal range of three to four feet tall and wide for an evergreen shrub. However, several of the larger varieties have potential as moderately-sized screening plants. 
Southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora), hardy and evergreen in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 6 through 10, is one of the genus's largest trees at 60 to 80 feet high and 40 feet wide. Houpu magnolia (M. officinalis var. 
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Evergreens, or plants that keep their foliage year-round, grow in a variety of sizes. Evergreen groundcovers can grow to just a few inches tall, while huge coniferous trees can reach to heights more than 300 feet. As of 2011, the tallest living specimen stood 379 feet tall. These giant trees grow quickly, up to 3 feet per year, and are native to the southwestern Oregon and northwestern California coasts, where they are considered a vulnerable species. Coast redwoods can live for more than 2,000 years.
0. BEST ANSWER: Under ideal full sun conditions over a long period of time Thuja Green Giant's can grow to 60 feet. Realistically 20 to 30 feet is the average growth in 10 years. Mine under partial to full sun are growing about 2 feet a year. The Thuja Green Giant is the perfect fast growing evergreen for a privacy hedge or wind screen. Plant one every 5-6 feet and they quickly create a dense barrier.
An evergreen tree is a tree that keeps its leaves throughout the year. Like the name says, an ever-green tree stays green all year round. For example, spruce trees and pine tr … ees are both everreen trees. Normally, African ebony trees grow 15-18 feet tall, but they can grow upto 16 feet in diameter and 80 feet in height.
Overview. Depending on the species, pine trees grow to greatly varying heights. From a dwarf tree at a short height of 4 feet to a variety that reaches 100 feet in maturity, there are several options for your landscape. Identify different species, their features, growth rates and expected heights for a broad selection.
Listed are just a few of our most popular fast growing windbreak trees. Our complete list can be found here. Coral Snap Hybrid Salix – This fast growing tree provides a thick, fast growing windbreak. Coral Snap can grow to 12 feet tall in just 2 years reaching a 25 foot height with a 12 - 15 foot width at maturity. This fast growing tree has growth rates up to 8 feet per year and will grow to 60 feet tall and 30 feet wide. The quick growing Hybrid Poplar prefers full sun and deep moist soil. It will tolerate poor soils and drought, but it will grow more slowly under these conditions.
Tall. Several evergreen trees reach heights to 200 feet or more. The Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) grows throughout the Pacific Northwest and commonly reaches heights of 250 feet, though the tallest recorded specimen was 330 feet tall. This fast-growing tree needs full sun and prefers rich soil. As of 2011, the tallest living specimen stood 379 feet tall. These giant trees grow quickly, up to 3 feet per year, and are native to the southwestern Oregon and northwestern California coasts, where they are considered a vulnerable species. Coast redwoods can live for more than 2,000 years.