Closer to London. Less than 40 miles east of central London, Southend Airport is the intelligent choice for flights into the capital of the United Kingdom. Fast, easy rail and road access. Easy Train Access. Up to 8 trains per hour into Central London taking 53 minutes. Our dedicated rail station is less than 100 paces from the airport terminal, plane to train in just 15 minutes.
EasyJet Flights Available from Southend Airport. EasyJet have revealed that their Southend based portfolio of flights have now gone on sale, offering British travellers the ideal services to get away next summer.
Southend Airport redirects here. For the airport in Southend, Saskatchewan, Canada, see Southend Aerodrome. London Southend Airport (IATA: SEN, ICAO: EGMC) is an international airport in the district of Rochford within Essex, England, approximately 42 miles (68 km) from the centre of London. The airport is served by buses operated by Arriva Southend from the airport entrance to Southend (7, 8 and 9), Rochford (7 and 8), Ashingdon (7), Hawkwell (8), Hockley (7 and 8), Eastwood (9) and Rayleigh (7, 8 and 9).
PARIS is the latest possible destination for flights from Southend Airport. Stobart Air, which owns the airport, has revealed it is keen on regular connections to the French capital as it tries to expand its aviation business. However, airport bosses remained tight-lipped over whether Paris would be one of them. A spokesman said: “All we can say right now is that new routes will be announced as and when it is appropriate to do so. “In Southend, we fully expect to have a number of additional new routes over the next four years.”.
The airport is located between Rochford and Southend town centres, 1.5 NM (2.8 km; 1.7 mi) north of Southend, in the county of Essex, 36 miles (58 km) to the east of central London. The airport is served by buses operated by Arriva Southend from the airport entrance to Southend (7, 8 and 9), Rochford (7 and 8), Ashingdon (7), Hawkwell (8), Hockley (7 and 8), Eastwood (9) and Rayleigh (7, 8 and 9).
By rail. Southend airport has excellent rail connections into central London with up to 8 trains per hour into Central London taking 53 minutes. The airport’s dedicated rail station is less than 100 paces from the airport terminal and passengers can enjoy quick access from plane to train in just 15 minutes. By Car. London Southend Airport is located 40 miles from Central London and 35 miles from London Stratford. The airport is located just off the A127 meaning there is access links from the M25, A13, and A12 making the journey to Central London just under one hour.
Our Services to London. Southend Airport Travel operates as a professional taxi and booking service from Southend, Essex, with easy access to London, namely Canary Wharf, Docklands, Central London & London's West End. 
London Southend Airport is around 40 miles (64 kms) east of Central London. Southend airport is a relatively small one passenger terminal, which although long established has only just supported mainstream commercial flights, triggered by the low cost budget airline easyJet establishing a base there. National Express do offer a coach service between London and Southend but at the moment it only runs once a day timed for local people to travel from Southend to London in the morning and return in the evening.