Phloem is the vascular tissue responsible for the transport of sugars from source tissues (ex. photosynthetic leaf cells) to sink tissues (ex. non-photosynthetic root cells or developing flowers). Other molecules such as proteins and mRNAs are also transported throughout the plant via phloem. 
only leaves have phloem and only roots have xylem. b. the cells of roots have cell walls that are lacking in leaf cells. c. a waxy cuticle covers leaves but is absent in roots. d. vascular tissue is found in roots but it is absent from leaves. Which functional plant cells lack a nucleus? a. xylem only b. sieve tube cells only c. companion cells only d. both companion and parenchyma cells e. both xylem and sieve tube cells 4. The fiber cells of plants are a type of a. parenchyma. d. meristematic cell. b. sclerenchyma. e. phloem cell. c. collenchyma.
Two types of sclerenchyma cells exist: fibres and sclereids. Their cell walls consist of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin. Sclerenchyma cells are the principal supporting cells in plant tissues that have ceased elongation. Sclerenchyma fibres are of great economic importance, since they constitute the source material for many fabrics (e.g. flax, hemp, jute, and ramie). Parenchyma forms the filler tissue in the soft parts of plants. Collenchyma cells have thin primary walls with some areas of secondary thickening. Collenchyma provides extra structural support, particularly in regions of new growth. Sclerenchyma cells have thick lignified secondary walls and often die when mature.
Sclerenchyma is a specialised tissue, adapted to withstand both compressive and tensile stresses in plants. Sclerenchyma cell types may be divided into fibres, associated with phloem, xylem and other tissues; and sclereids or varied kinds. Sclereids originate from parenchyma and expand by intrusive growth.
Phloem and xylem fibres in trees originate from the vascular cambium through delicately controlled, parallel cell divisions. Sclerenchyma cells have secondary wall layers that are constructed from cellulose microfibrils in a matrix of hemicelluloses and lignin. Sclerenchyma cell types may be divided into fibres, associated with phloem, xylem and other tissues; and sclereids or varied kinds. Sclereids originate from parenchyma and expand by intrusive growth.
The vascular tissue system is composed of the xylem (transport of water and dissolved minerals) and phloem (transport of food-usually sucrose and other sugars-, nitrogen containing compounds, and hormones). The xylem and phloem in the primary plant body are usually closely associated in the form of vascular bundles. 
In vascular plants, phloem is the living tissue that carries organic nutrients (known as photosynthate), in particular, sucrose, a sugar, to all parts of the plant where needed. In trees, the phloem is the innermost layer of the bark, hence the name, derived from the Greek word φλοιός (phloios) meaning bark. 
Sclerenchyma Mature sclerenchyma is composed of dead cells with extremely thick secondary walls cell walls composed of cellulose and lignin: these walls make up to 90% of the whole cell volume. Sclerenchyma tissue is a supporting tissue. There are two types of sclerenchyma cells, fibres and sclereids. Fibres are generally long, slender cells, which commonly occur in strands or bundles, and can be seen in the diagram below as dense red caps to the outside of the vascular tissue. 
The protective/supportive sclerenchyma include fibers and sclereids. The vascular sclerenchyma is xylem. Vascular tissues of plants contain xylem and phloem. Xylem cells usually stand out as sclerenchyma cell types whereas phloem cells blend in with other parenchyma. The next two units present more information about xylem and phloem. Sclerenchyma cells in this view are fibers or xylem. Note the thick secondary cell walls and large lumens of the xylem cells to the right. Contrast these to the smaller diameter fiber cells with thick walls to the upper left. You should note most sclerenchyma cells are dead at maturity and therefore lack nuclei.