Shop ▾. After years of pleading from consumers, Valve finally brought refunds to the Steam digital game store this week. In an update posted on its website on Tuesday, Valve outlined the rules for getting a refund on Steam, which looks to be surprisingly simple (and forgiving) for anyone unsatisfied with their purchase. 
Step-By-Step Instructions. 1  Navigate to Steam Help (help.steampowered.com) and log in with your Steam account. 2  After you have logged in, click on A Purchase. 3  Find the purchase you would like to refund and click on it. 4  Select the problem you are having with the product. 5  Next, click I'd like to request a refund. 6  Fill out and submit the request form. 7  P 1 Next, click I'd like to request a refund. 2  Fill out and submit the request form. 3  Please click on the drop-down menu icon to select the Steam Wallet or the original payment method. 4  You should receive a confirmation email that your request was successfully submitted.
Subscribe for the latest gaming news. Valve has introduced a new refund policy for Steam that allows you to return games and DLC within two weeks of purchase, provided you haven't played the content in question for more than two hours. With seemingly no fanfare, the new refund policy went into effect today. The latest Steam client update notes its new integration with Steam refunds and the Steam support site, and a new page devoted to refunds has gone live. In short, you can return most anything within 14 days of purchase for a full refund.
You can request a refund for nearly any purchase on Steam—for any reason. Valve. It’s also an increasingly visible issue. Take a recent scenario spotlit by the BBC, in which a Sony customer allegedly saw his PlayStation Network account illicitly accessed by someone else, then used to purchase software. 
1 Find the purchase you would like to refund and click on it. 2  If your purchase is not listed, it falls too far outside of our refund window and is ineligible for a refund. 3  Select the problem you are having with the product. 4  Next, click I'd like to request a refund. 5  Fill out and submit the request form. 1 Next, click I'd like to request a refund. 2  Fill out and submit the request form. 3  Please click on the drop-down menu icon to select the Steam Wallet or the original payment method. 4  You should receive a confirmation email that your request was successfully submitted.
Steam Refunds. You can request a refund for nearly any purchase on Steam—for any reason. Maybe your PC doesn't meet the hardware requirements; maybe you bought a game by mistake; maybe you played the title for an hour and just didn't like it. It doesn't matter. You will receive the refund in Steam Wallet funds or through the same payment method you used to make the purchase. If, for any reason, Steam is unable to issue a refund via your initial payment method, your Steam Wallet will be credited the full amount.
Refunds on Pre-Purchased Titles. When you pre-purchase a title on Steam (and have paid for the title in advance), you can request a refund at any time prior to release of that title. The standard 14-day/two-hour refund period also applies, starting on the game’s release date. You will receive the refund in Steam Wallet funds or through the same payment method you used to make the purchase. If, for any reason, Steam is unable to issue a refund via your initial payment method, your Steam Wallet will be credited the full amount.