An average is just one measure of central tendency for any set of data. Another measure is a median. For our wage data, the median wage (or net compensation) is the wage in the middle.. That is, half of the workers earned below this level. The table below shows that the median wage is substantially less than the average wage. 
In 2013, Gallup published a list of countries with median household income. Using median, rather than mean income, results in a much more accurate picture of the average income of the middle class since the data will not be skewed by gains and abnormalities in the extreme ends. 1 Based on analysis on US median household income, median household money income during the 2006-2012 period had an average (but not median) of $53,836, therefore by comparison the Gallup result is underreported and is even below the Census' own figures.
By Alison Doyle. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median wage for workers in the United States at the end of September 2014 was $790 per week or $41,080 per year for a 40 hour work week. Wages were 2.5% higher than at the same date for the previous year. 
Median vs. Mean. Median is often confused with another statistic called the mean, or average. The mean of a data set is equal to the sum of all the data values divided by the total number of values in the data set. Consider a data set consisting of the following numbers: 1, 8, 9, 10 and 12. For example, if there are 49 singers in the economy that make $30,000 a year and one superstar singer that makes $10 million a year, the average income of all singers in the economy is $229,400.
Median income is the amount which divides the income distribution into two equal groups, half having income above that amount, and half having income below that amount. Mean income (average) is the amount obtained by dividing the total aggregate income of a group by the number of units in that group. While the median annual household income for a household with a householder having an associate degree was $51,970, the median annual household income for householders with a bachelor's degree or higher was $73,446.
(March 2015). Median income is the amount that divides the income distribution into two equal groups, half having income above that amount, and half having income below that amount. Mean income (average) is the amount obtained by dividing the total aggregate income of a group by the number of units in that group. 1 Based on analysis on US median household income, median household money income during the 2006-2012 period had an average (but not median) of $53,836, therefore by comparison the Gallup result is underreported and is even below the Census' own figures.
The median salary is less likely than the average salary to be skewed by outliers, for example an extremely high salary or an extremely low salary that may be earned by only a few people. Common Misspellings: medien. Share. By Dawn Rosenberg McKay. Definition: If you lined up, in order from highest to lowest or lowest to highest, all the salaries of people working in a particular occupation, the median salary is the one that falls at the midpoint of that range.
One key measure is the real median level, meaning half of households have income above that level and half below, adjusted for inflation. According to the Federal Reserve, this measure was $51,939 in 2013, below the 1999 peak of around $57,000. While the median annual household income for a household with a householder having an associate degree was $51,970, the median annual household income for householders with a bachelor's degree or higher was $73,446.