Click the Wireless Networks tab in the Wireless Network Connection window to switch to the Wireless Networks page. In the preferred networks section of the Wireless Networks page click the name of the router whose settings you want to find, then click the Properties button. Locate the connection whose wireless router settings you want to find in the Network Connections window. Right-click on the connection. Then click Properties from the context menu. This will open the Wireless Network Connection window for that
Editors' Review. by: Download.com staff on February 15, 2015. My WiFi Router 3.0 helps turn your laptop into your own public or private Wi-Fi hotspot. You can allow or blacklist users under Connection Management, share videos, and shut down the computer providing Wi-Fi access automatically by timer. 
For example, if your computer connects to the Internet through a wireless router, you must confirm that the wireless router settings set for your wireless hardware are correct. You can find the wireless router settings being used by your Windows XP computer in the Network Connections control panel. Locate the connection whose wireless router settings you want to find in the Network Connections window. Right-click on the connection. Then click Properties from the context menu. This will open the Wireless Network Connection window for that
Click Set up a connection or network. Click Manually connect to a wireless network, and then type the network information. The network will be added to your list of networks and will be available to connect to in the future when your computer is in range of the network. Source(s): Top of my head.
1 Temporarily plug a network cable into your laptop and wireless router. 2  When your computer is on, it should automatically connect to the router [source: Microsoft 3  ]. Open Internet Explorer and type in the URL address of your wireless router to access the configuration page. Here's what to do: 1 
Best Answer: Open your web browser and type 192.168.1.1 This will allow you to login to your router, the default username/password is admin/admin Find wireless settings, look around. I recommend you don't changer anything you dont understand. 
Set Up Your Wireless Router on a Windows 7 PC. 1. Connect the wireless router to your modem using an ethernet cable. 2. Connect your wireless router to a power source. Wait about a minute, and then continue to the next step. 
1 To enable Wi-Fi syncing, first connect your iPhone to the computer through a USB port. 2  On the iPhone management screen, select the option ‘Sync with this computer over Wi-Fi’ that’s displayed in the ‘Options’ box. 3  To implement this setting, click the ‘Apply’ button. 1 On the iPhone management screen, select the option ‘Sync with this computer over Wi-Fi’ that’s displayed in the ‘Options’ box. 2  To implement this setting, click the ‘Apply’ button. 3  Now click the ‘Eject’ button next to the iPhone icon in iTunes and disconnect the iPhone from your computer.
You can connect your laptop to the Internet through a Wi-Fi connection if you have a wireless router connected to broadband Internet and an operating system that fully supports wireless networking, such as Windows 7, Vista or XP. Here's what to do: 1  Temporarily plug a network cable into your laptop and wireless router. 2  When your computer is on, it should automatically connect to the router [source: Microsoft 3  ]. Open Internet Explorer and type in the URL address of your wireless router to access the configuration page.
Get online and share files without wires. These step-by-step directions will help you set up your Windows or Mac laptop to connect to a Wi-Fi network in a few easy steps. (Note: If you prefer more visual instructions, please see this wi-fi connection tutorial which has screenshots showing each step.). Difficulty: Easy. Time Required: 10 minutes. 1 Some wireless networks are set up to hide their SSID (or network name); if you don't find the Wi-Fi network in your list, ask someone at the establishment for the SSID information.