The month of September is here. And in Major League Baseball, that means the cavalry has arrived. 'Tis roster expansion season in baseball. After playing the first five months of the season with strict 25-man rosters, clubs around MLB are free to carry as many as 40 players if they so desire. Fringe major leaguers and star prospects alike get a taste of The Show in September.
As the United States population has expands, so does the number of professional baseball teams. But this trend has been on hold since 1998, when the Diamondbacks and the then-named Devil Rays joined the league. The time between expansions is now tied for the longest in post-World War II history at 17 years.
The National League (founded in 1876) and the American League (founded in 1901) were both eight-team circuits at the turn of the century and remained that way until expansion finally came to Major League Baseball in the 1960s. The AL added two teams in 1961 and the NL did the same a year later.
20.0%. There are 30 teams in Major League Baseball, 15 (an odd number) in each league. Baseball is different from the three other major North American sports for two reasons. First, it is the only sport in which each team plays six to seven games every week in sets of two, three or four-game series.
There are 30 teams in Major League Baseball, 15 (an odd number) in each league. Baseball is different from the three other major North American sports for two reasons. First, it is the only sport in which each team plays six to seven games every week in sets of two, three or four-game series.
MILWAUKEE -- The long-talked-about expansion of Major League Baseball's playoffs is in the works and could be incorporated as soon as this coming season, Commissioner Bud Selig announced after the conclusion of Thursday's final quarterly joint Owners Meeting of the year.
The benefits of the Expansion Era are obvious — total MLB attendance is more than 70 million a year; its high of 79.5 million in 2007 is four times the total gate in 1960. Expansion is probably second only to television as a factor in the game's growth.
MLB has been studying how to expand the playoffs for at least two years, and it became a hot topic of discussion in Selig's 14-person special committee that has been studying on-field improvements of the sport.