Because of the specialized nature of FBI Special Agent jobs, the FBI has very strict entry requirements in place. To qualify for a position as an FBI Special Agent: 1  Candidates must be at least 23 years old, but younger than 37 at the time of appointment. 2  Veterans, however, may be granted an age waiver if they are older than 37. 3  Candidates must be a United States citizen or a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands. FBI Police Officers FBI Police candidates must meet all of the above FBI Special Agent requirements, with the exception of the age requirement, as FBI police officers must be at least 21 to be eligible for appointment with the FBI.
1 Accounting (Must major in Accounting and be able to pass the CPA exam or FBI equivalent). 2  Diversified duties (require an advanced degree with work experience or a minimum of 3 years of work experience). 3  A three year commitment is required when you accept employment. 1 Have a driver's license in a US state. 2  Have a minimum of a Bachelors degree from an accredited four year university. 3  Be physically able to complete the training and execute the duties. 4  This includes the ability to fight, complete fire arms training, and other duties as required.
A: To become a FBI agent, you need to be between the age of 23 and 37. These requirements are set by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. You need to have at least a bachelor level degree in a relevant field. The next step is completing an FBI training program. A: Some the basic selection criteria for the FBI calls for the applicants to be United States citizen or a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands. You must be over the age of 23 years and younger than 37. You must also have a four year college degree and hold a valid drivers license.
1 You must be under 37 years of age when you're hired but at least 23 years of age. 2  Have a driver's license in a US state. 3  Have a minimum of a Bachelors degree from an accredited four year university. 4  Be physically able to complete the training and execute the duties. 1 Have a driver's license in a US state. 2  Have a minimum of a Bachelors degree from an accredited four year university. 3  Be physically able to complete the training and execute the duties. 4  This includes the ability to fight, complete fire arms training, and other duties as required.
With a bachelor degree, you can enroll in a FBI training program and further acquire skills necessary for the career. Q: While searching on how many years of college to become an FBI agent, I came across educational requirements for this career. A: Some the basic selection criteria for the FBI calls for the applicants to be United States citizen or a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands. You must be over the age of 23 years and younger than 37. You must also have a four year college degree and hold a valid drivers license.
A: It will take you 4-5 years to become an FBI special agent. After completing a four year undergraduate degree, preferably in a relevant subject such as criminal justice, you may apply to the agency. A: Some the basic selection criteria for the FBI calls for the applicants to be United States citizen or a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands. You must be over the age of 23 years and younger than 37. You must also have a four year college degree and hold a valid drivers license.
A: If you want to become an FBI agent you should be a U.S citizen and at least 23 years of age. Educational requirements include having a four year bachelor degree from an accredited university or college. A: Some the basic selection criteria for the FBI calls for the applicants to be United States citizen or a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands. You must be over the age of 23 years and younger than 37. You must also have a four year college degree and hold a valid drivers license.
The primary expectation from a FBI agent job is investigation at various federal levels. FBI Agent Salary. An FBI agent job can start off with a basic salary of $51,000 per year. This level of salary will increase with more work experience and can go up to $70,000 per year. You can only be an FBI agent if you are a US citizen and fall in the age bracket of 23-37 years. It is also important that you earn a bachelor's degree in a relevant field such as criminal justice, cyber crime, forensics, or biology. Q: I want to become an FBI agent but I don't know how to be a fbi agent