On a label for folic acid as with other labels on medication, ug is a unit of measurement which stands for micrograms. Folic acid is a part of the B complex of vitamins. It is vital for red blood cells and for many other cells in the body. The form of folic acid occurring naturally in food is … called 'folate'.   Functions of folic acidFolic acid, along with vitamin B12, is important for formation of red blood cell
Folic acid or folate is a B vitamin. It is also referred to as vitamin M, vitamin B9, vitamin Bc (or folacin), pteroyl-L-glutamic acid, and pteroyl-L-glutamate. Food supplement manufacturers often use the term folate for something different from pure folic acid: in chemistry, folate refers to the deprotonated ion, and folic acid to the neutral molecule—which both coexist in water.
#10. Re: 5mg of folic acid is how many ug of folic acid? If you are pregnant or are trying to get pregnant and have a BMI of 30 or above then the recommended dose of folic acid is 5mg a day..........as advised by a consultant in the assisted conception unit at Sheffield's Jessop Hospital. Re: 5mg of folic acid is how many ug of folic acid? Thanks for the information re difference between 5mg and 400ug. I am a leaukeamia patient who has been prescribed these to aid iron absorbtion, sadly i've run out of my 5mg so needed to buy some over the counter.
A: When taking supplements, more is not better. Women who can get pregnant (whether planning to or not) need just 400 mcg of folic acid daily, and they can get this amount from vitamins or fortified foods. This is in addition to eating foods rich in folate. A: Folate and folic acid are often used interchangeably. They're different forms of the same B vitamin. Folate is found naturally in some foods, such as leafy, dark green vegetables, citrus fruits and juices, and beans.
Folic acid, or folate, is the chemical name for a vitamin also known as vitamin B9 or vitamin M, which doctors prescribe for anemia. Folic acid is one of the eight vitamins in the vitamin-B complex. 
Re: 5mg of folic acid is how many ug of folic acid? Yes, I would say you probably need to take 4 pills per day of the 400 mcg dose folic acid to get near your typical supplementation of 5mg per day. That is a pretty high dose. Not many people take more than about 1 mg per day. Re: 5mg of folic acid is how many ug of folic acid? Thanks for the information re difference between 5mg and 400ug. I am a leaukeamia patient who has been prescribed these to aid iron absorbtion, sadly i've run out of my 5mg so needed to buy some over the counter.
Folic acid is a type of B vitamin that is normally found in foods such as dried beans, peas, lentils, oranges, whole-wheat products, liver, asparagus, beets, broccoli, brussels sprouts, and spinach. Folic acid helps your body produce and maintain new cells, and also helps prevent changes to DNA that may lead to cancer. 
Folic acid is one of the B vitamins your body needs for good health. Getting enough of this vitamin prevents folic acid deficiency anemia. It also prevents certain birth defects. The vitamin is also called folate, but there is a difference: 1  Folate is the natural form of this vitamin. 2  It's found in food. 3  Folic acid is the man-made form. 4  It's put into vitamin pills and fortified foods, such as fortified breakfast cereals. 
Folate (folic acid) is one of the B group of vitamins found in small amounts in many foods. Folate is usually absorbed through the upper part of the small intestine. The body's reserves of folate, unlike vitamin B12, are low and only sufficient for around four months. 