Fast Response. No Obligations. We can help you find a siding installation or repair contractor in your area. The pros in our network provide free cost estimates for a variety of siding projects and material types such as: vinyl, wood, metal, aluminum, stucco, fiber cement, brick, stone, and liquid spray on siding. We are a fast and easy way to find a local contractor
Vinyl Siding-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors. Do you need to know the average cost to install Vinyl Siding in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Vinyl Siding job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY.
Don’t let your remodeling budget go over-board by hidden surprises – understand what the average installed costs for Vinyl Siding is in your zip code by using our handy calculator. If you’re looking for 2015 breakdown for Vinyl Siding materials and what installation cost might be, you’ve come to the right place.
Siding prices are: for the purpose of this How To Estimate Your Siding Costs we are using a Top grade vinyl siding price of $4.50 per sq. ft.* Please refer to our prices page for other materials and options. 
Vinyl siding costs vary depending on thickness and quality. A general cost estimate calculated before ordering vinyl siding for your house reduces the chance of overpaying. Costs that are often unanticipated, such as restocking fees for excess product and material waste, add to the total project cost. . 
Nails for the siding: $35.00. Delivery charge (if applicable): $37.75. Total Vinyl Siding Cost for this estimate with taxes would be $5,843.13 with 8% tax. Remember this is just an estimate and your final price will depend on the vinyl siding you pick as well as many other factors. Keep in mind, this does NOT include soffit, fascia or any aluminum to be wrapped around the windows. To give you an idea of how much it would cost to install siding yourself, here is an example of the costs for installing siding on a 2200 square house. Note: No soffit or fascia was added to this estimate and these prices are only estimates to give you an idea.
1 Estimates are based on the exterior square feet of your home. 2  For example, if your home was 10' tall, 40' long and 30' wide, it could be a 1,200 square foot home with 10*(40+40+30+30)=1,400 exterior square feet, which could take roughly 14 10'x10' squares of vinyl. 1 Range from less than $1/square foot for do-it-yourself panels from a building supply store to $2-$7 or more if installed by a contractor. 2  For an 1,800-square-foot exterior (50' long, 40' wide and 10' tall'), that's $3,600 to $12,600 and up for professionally hung vinyl.
1 Vinyl Siding installation costs vary considerably by location. 2  For an accurate estimate in your area, enter your zip code in the calculator above. 3  Reduce total project cost by having multiple vendors bid on the same, detailed work specification of your Vinyl Siding project. Do you need to know the average cost to install Vinyl Siding in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Vinyl Siding job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY.
$6.16. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Vinyl Siding! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Vinyl Siding Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Vinyl Siding ranges between $4.52 - $6.16 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
Average Cost. The average cost to purchase and have the vinyl siding installed is anywhere from $3.00 to $7.00 per square foot. If you are purchasing the vinyl separate from installation, you can be sure that the installation will cost anywhere between 30% and 50% of the raw material cost. Additional or Supplemental Costs. When you install a the vinyl siding you need to be prepared to spend additional money on the following items: 1  Building Permits: The cost of this is dependent on your local municipality rules and regulations (usually will not cost more than a couple hundred dollars).