In descriptive statistics, the quartiles of a ranked set of data values are the three points that divide the data set into four equal groups, each group comprising a quarter of the data. A quartile is a type of quantile. The first quartile (Q 1) is defined as the middle number between the smallest number and the median of the data set. The second quartile (Q 2) is the median of the data. The third quartile (Q 3) is the middle value between the median and the highest value of the data set. 1 Use the median to divide the ordered data set into two halves. 2  If the median is a datum (as opposed to being the mean of the middle two data), include the median in both halves. 3  The lower quartile value is the median of the lower half of the data. 4  The upper quartile value is the median of the upp
1 The median is the middle value of the data set. 2  The lower quartile (Q 1) is the median of the lower half of the data set. 3  The upper quartile (Q 3) is the median of the upper half of the data set. 4  The interquartile range (IQR) is the spread of the middle 50% of the data values. 1 The lower quartile (Q 1) is the median of the lower half of the data set. 2  The upper quartile (Q 3) is the median of the upper half of the data set. 3  The interquartile range (IQR) is the spread of the middle 50% of the data values. 4  So:
Quartiles are percentiles that divide the data into fourths. The first quartile is the middle (the median) of the lower half of the data. One-fourth of the data lies below the first quartile and three-fourths lies above. (the 25th percentile) The second quartile is another name for the median of the entire set of data.
1 The first quartile, denoted by Q 1, is the median of the lower half of the data set. 2  This means that about 25% of the numbers in the data set lie below Q 1 and about 75% lie above Q 1. 3  The third quartile, denoted by Q 3, is the median of the upper half of the data set. Therefore, the lower half of the data is: {3, 5, 7, 8}. The first quartile, Q 1, is the median of {3, 5, 7, 8}. Since there is an even number of values, we need the mean of the middle two values to find the first quartile: .
The first quartile (Q 1) is defined as the middle number between the smallest number and the median of the data set. The second quartile (Q 2) is the median of the data. 1 Use the median to divide the ordered data set into two halves. 2  If the median is a datum (as opposed to being the mean of the middle two data), include the median in both halves. 3  The lower quartile value is the median of the lower half of the data. 4  The upper quartile value is the median of the upp
Median of data set = second quartile of data set. (the 50th percentile) The third quartile is the middle (the median) of the upper half of the data. Three-fourths of the data lies below the third quartile and one-fourth lies above. (the 75th percentile) A quartile is a number, it is not a range of values. The first quartile is the middle (the median) of the lower half of the data. One-fourth of the data lies below the first quartile and three-fourths lies above. (the 25th percentile) The second quartile is another name for the median of the entire set of data.
The first quartile (also called the lower quartile) is the number below which lies the 25 percent of the bottom data. The second quartile (the median) divides the range in the middle and has 50 percent of the data below it. 
What is a Quartile. Quartiles are the values used to divide a set of numbers into four equal groups. Put the numbers in order and divide them in half using a median. To the left of the median, the numbers are separated again, and to the right of the median, make a third separation. 
Quartiles are the values that divide a list of numbers into quarters. 1  First put the list of numbers in order. 2  Then cut the list into four equal parts. Quartiles. Quartiles are the values that divide a list of numbers into quarters. 1  First put the list of numbers in order. 2  Then cut the list into four equal parts. 3  The Quartiles are at the cuts.