Baby names meanings search results: The name Adalyn is a baby girl name. The name Adalyn comes from the French origin. In French The meaning of the name Adalyn is: Variant of Adela.
Adalyn is an uncommon first name for women. Adalyn is an equivalently unique surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Adalyn for girls. Adalyn entered the list in 2007 and reached its peak rank of #152 in the U.S. in the year 2014. Adalyn /ada-lyn/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Adalyn's root is Old German, and the name Adalyn means noble kind. Adalyn is a version of Adelaide (Old German): from adal heid. Adalyn is also a derivative of Adeline (Old German)
Notes: Adalyn is a name with American origins. It is a constructed name, combining Ada and Lynn. It also can be a form of Adeline and Adelina. The meaning of the name Adalyn is noble. Common nicknames include Ada, Lyn, and Daly. Adelina is a county in Poland. It is also the name of a saint in France and a noble woman of Holland. Adelina Garcia is an American singer and Adelina de Lara was a British actress
Adalyn is an English form of the English, German, Polish, Czech, Romanian, and Spanish Adela. Adalyn is also an English form of the English and Italian Adelaide. Adalyn is popular as a baby girl name, and it is also regarded as trendy. 
Meaning of Adalyn. French name. In French, the name Adalyn means-derived from adela.The name Adalyn originated as an French name. The name Adalyn is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-derived from adela. Origin-France.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Adalyn and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Adalyn and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Adalyn Name Meaning. The meaning of Adalyn is “Noble guardian”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
French Meaning: The name Adalyn is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Adalyn is: SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony. People with this name tend to be creative and excellent at expressing themselves.
Adalyn is a new American coinage. As an invented name, Adalyn is thought to have been inspired by one of two more traditional names. The first, Adelaide, comes from the Germanic elements “adal” meaning ‘noble’ and “heid” meaning ‘kind, sort’. The second influence on Adalyn’s creation was taking the popular name Madelyn and dropping the “m”