Native American Symbols, like the Circle symbol, can vary in meaning from one tribe to another and across the culture groups of North America. Discover facts and information about the meanings of secret and mysterious symbols used by Native American Indians in our List of Symbols including the Circle symbol. The circle symbols are believed to be associated with religion and astronomy. The Circle Symbol-Meaning There were so many tribes of Native American Indians it is only possible to generalise the most common meaning of the Circle symbol or pattern.
Circle Symbol Meaning. Circle Symbolism and Meaning. I can't hope to quench the inexhaustible implications of the circle symbol meaning in this page. It's meanings are just too far reaching and profound. However, I'll try to cover a few highlights in human culture about the circle as a symbol. Stand behind the eyes of the first hominin. 
The astrological symbol of the sun is a circle with a dot in the middle. The same symbol is often used to represent gold, which is strongly associated with the sun. The element of spirit, seen as an element equal or superior to the physical elements of fire, air, water and earth, is commonly represented by a circle. Circles commonly represent unity, wholeness, and infinity. Without beginning or end, without sides or corners, the circle is also associated with the number one. In some cases, there is a distinction between that which is contained within the circle and that which lies without.
The circle is a universal symbol with extensive meaning. It represents the notions of totality, wholeness, original perfection, the Self, the infinite, eternity, timelessness, all cyclic movement, God ('God is a circle whose centre is everywhere and whose circumference is nowhere' (Hermes Trismegistus)). The circle is also zero in our system of numbering, and symbolizes potential, or the embryo. It has a magical value as a protective agent, ... and indicates the end of the process of individuation, of striving towards a psychic wholeness and self-realization (Julien, 71).
It is a symbol of revolution, of being centered and mobile. It is a symbol of forever. The meaning of the circle as a symbol is universal. It is seen as a divine sign, sacred to several cultures. It symbolizes the ongoing energy found in nature. It symbolizes the way the universe includes everything. The circle has a lot of different meanings. Celtics saw the circle as a symbol of space and the universe. Chinese use the circle to symbolize heaven, and a square to symbolize earth. Chinese art has used squares inside of circles. They used the square inside the circle to represent heaven and earth being united.
The Circle Symbol-Meaning The circle is symbolic of equality, where no person is more prominent than any other person. Circle meetings ensured that all people were allowed to speak and the words spoken were accepted and respected on an equal basis. The circle symbols are believed to be associated with religion and astronomy. The Circle Symbol-Meaning There were so many tribes of Native American Indians it is only possible to generalise the most common meaning of the Circle symbol or pattern.
Meaning of the Circle Symbol Native American Indians were a deeply spiritual people and they communicated their history, thoughts, ideas and dreams from generation to generation through Symbols and Signs such as the Circle symbol. The circle symbols are believed to be associated with religion and astronomy. The Circle Symbol-Meaning There were so many tribes of Native American Indians it is only possible to generalise the most common meaning of the Circle symbol or pattern.
One common Mormon temple symbol is that of a circle inscribed in a square. This is a very simple symbol with a neat meaning. The circle in the square represent heaven and earth coming together (a great temple symbol). The heavens are often described as a bowl and often symbolized by a circle. 
Symbolic Meanings of the Circle. The Astronomical and Symbolic Meanings of the Circle and Stones: The Stanstead Stone Circle commemorates many things. The first is the fact that the community of Stanstead falls on the 45th parallel—halfway between the equator and the North Pole, a significant location on the planet.