Furthermore, especially in American English, the concepts of the state and the government may be used synonymously to refer to the person or group of people exercising authority over a politically organized territory. Finally, government is also sometimes used in English as a synonym for governance. Rule by the rich; a system of governance composed of the wealthy class. Any of the forms of government listed here can be plutocracy. For instance, if all of the elected representatives in a republic are wealthy, then it is a republic and a
2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the system or form by which a community, etc, is ruled: tyrannical government. 3. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy). a. the executive policy-making body of a political unit, community, etc; ministry or administration: yesterday we got a new government. 2. the form or system of rule by which a state, etc., is governed: monarchical government. 3. the governing body of persons in a state, community, etc. 4. a branch or service of the supreme authority of a state or nation, taken as representing the whole.
1. the political direction and control exercised over the actions of the members, citizens, or inhabitants of communities, societies, and states; direction of the affairs of a community, etc. 2. the form or system of rule by which a state, etc., is governed: monarchical government. 3. the governing body of persons in a state, community, etc. 4. a branch or service of the supreme authority of a state or nation, taken as representing the whole.
a group of members of a government who are chosen by the leader of the government to give advice and be responsible for its policies. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Free thesaurus definition of groups of government officials from the Macmillan English Dictionary-a free English dictionary online with thesaurus and with pronunciation from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
The Israel lobby is the diverse coalition of those who, as individuals and as groups, seek to influence the foreign policy of the United States in support of Zionism, Israel or the specific policies of its government. The modern political party system in the United States is a two-party system dominated by the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. These two parties have won every United States presidential election since 1852 and have controlled the United States Congress since 1856.
Variant of monarchy; a system of government in which two individuals, the diarchs, are the heads of state. In most diarchies, the diarchs hold their position for life and pass the responsibilities and power of the position to their children or family when they die. Diarchy is one of the oldest forms of government. Rule by the rich; a system of governance composed of the wealthy class. Any of the forms of government listed here can be plutocracy. For instance, if all of the elected representatives in a republic are wealthy, then it is a republic and a
Confidence votes 16.6K. An oligarchy is a system of government by groups or officials. It is a government that is run be several people as a group. It is distinguished from a monarch, which is a government run by one person. A system of government run by groups or officials is bureaucratic. A bureaucracy is a system of government by groups of officials. An autocracy is a system of government where one person rules with total power.
The United States is a federal constitutional republic, in which the President of the United States (the head of state and head of government), Congress, and judiciary share powers reserved to the national government, and the federal government shares sovereignty with the state governments. The modern political party system in the United States is a two-party system dominated by the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. These two parties have won every United States presidential election since 1852 and have controlled the United States Congress since 1856.
Government is the means by which state policy is enforced, as well as the mechanism for determining the policy of the state. A form of government, or form of state governance, refers to the set of political systems and institutions that make up the organisation of a specific government. Rule by the rich; a system of governance composed of the wealthy class. Any of the forms of government listed here can be plutocracy. For instance, if all of the elected representatives in a republic are wealthy, then it is a republic and a