Electrodermal activity (EDA), is the property of the human body that causes continuous variation in the electrical characteristics of the skin. 
Reinhold Voll, MD, a German physician, developed the first electrodermal system, called the Dermatron, in the 1950's and laid the groundwork for what became known as Electroacupuncture of Voll (EAV). One of Voll's physician students simplified this system creating a second model called the Vegatest. Since Voll's time, electrodermal testing has been adopted by a wide range of alternative healthcare practitioners using it for many different things, including nutrition counseling and prescription of homeopathic remedies.
Electrodermal testing (ET) has its roots in acupuncture as practiced in Europe in the 1950s, and is based on the principle of galvanometric skin differentials combined with classical Chinese acupuncture theory. Since Voll's time, electrodermal testing has been adopted by a wide range of alternative healthcare practitioners using it for many different things, including nutrition counseling and prescription of homeopathic remedies.
Also referred to as Vega testing, Electrodermal Testing measures the strength of acupuncture points to identify weaknesses in organs. A series of point are measured to produce a complete body analysis. This test involves no needles, but simply a monitor that detects subtle changes on the surface of the skin. 
Electrodermal testing (EDT) is an acupuncture-based approach and was developed to refine homeopathic prescriptions. EDT is currently being used as a diagnostic technique to advise patients about allergies. However, the evidence for its use in allergy testing is limited and often misrepresented. 
Massage & other body work. Rolfing® Structural Integration. Electrodermal Screening (EDS). The Downing Clinic has offered electrodermal (EDS) biofeedback screening for many years. With the EDS software and a computer, the specialist tests energy signals in the body. Signals sent on known acupuncture pathways can help determine whether a particular system is stressed or fatigued. 
The Electrodermal Screening Test According to traditional Chinese medicine, a form of bodily energy called chi is generated in internal organs and circulates throughout the body, forming paths near the surface of the skin called meridians. This is the basis of the electrodermal screening test (EDST). The device used in the EDST is the electrodermal screening device, or EDSD, which works by measuring electrical resistance and polarization at acupuncture points an
Electrodermal testing makes no sense and is not supported by any credible evidence. It is not based on science or grounded in reality; it is more akin to divination with a Magic 8 Ball. It merits a favorite phrase of Orac’s: a fetid load of dingo’s kidneys. 
Zyto Testing, The Latest Advance in Electrodermal Testing. The father of electrodermal screening as we’ve already noted was Dr. Reinhard Voll MD in Germany in the late 1940s. The largest drawback in Electrodermal testing to date is the need to use a probe to touch the acupuncture points in order to test the resistance. It is the largest variable in the process as it relies on the tester to apply testing pressure equally every time pressure is applied.
ElectroDermal Screening (EDS) is a technique that measures the resistance to the flow of electrons through the body. The purpose is to detect energy imbalances along invisible lines of the body described by acupuncturists as meridians. Since illness, inflammation, and other factors cause the body's resistance to change, ElectroDermal Screening can be used to detect these changes in resistance. ElectroDermal Screening has its earliest roots in what was called galvanic skin testing. The galvanic skin response, a method of measuring the electrical resistance of the skin, was discovered in the early 1900