I own a Jack Russell Terrier called Mouse. How Often should i walk her? she has short legs, 1 year old, spends her whole day in the garden. in the summer in western austalia so it is about 30 degrees celcius a day. I have german shepherds and my rule of thumb is if the amount of exercise they got at one time does not produce at least an hour nap shortly after coming home they did not get enough.And will very soon need to go again. I usually take them for at least a 45 minute off leash romp at the dog park every morning.
Report Abuse. welll any dog should be walked at least 3 times a week but jacks are very energetic little dogs and need to get that energy out so i would say a 30 min walk every day. I have german shepherds and my rule of thumb is if the amount of exercise they got at one time does not produce at least an hour nap shortly after coming home they did not get enough.And will very soon need to go again. I usually take them for at least a 45 minute off leash romp at the dog park every morning.
There is a 5 minute rule which is basically 5 minutes walk per day, per month of your puppy’s life, so therefore a 3 month old puppy can be walked for 15 minutes and a 4 month old puppy for 20 minutes, which is a guideline but as an owner make your own judgement on your puppies needs as each puppy is different. This would mean no more than 35 minutes of walking a day for a seven month old dog.(source). The amount of exercise your puppy needs depends on his age, breed and medical condition. Not every breed will be up for a long walk through Central Park.
Register. The question of how often a dog should be walked is a tricky one, since it depends largely on the breed and energy level of the dog. I will try to give you some advice here, so you’ll know how often to walk your dog – or to recommend to your dog walking clients. How Often a Dog Should Be Walked. The question of how often a dog should be walked is a tricky one, since it depends largely on the breed and energy level of the dog.
Your Dog’s Age and Size. How often you have to walk your dog to allow him to do what he has to do depends on the age and the size of the dog: A puppy or an older dog will have less control than one in his prime, and a smaller dog will have smaller urinary and digestive systems. 
A Yorkshire Terrier is a dog and it would need exercise just like every other dog does. You should walk him or her daily using a 6 foot lead and a collar. Daily walks are best … , around 20 minutes a day and work up to 45 minutes a day. Find a local obedience class in your area. Check with your local Dog Club, Animal Shelter or Veterinarian to find the nearest obedience class.
Walking should be moderate and at a fairly brisk pace. Do keep in mind that what is a brisk pace to you is a running pace for a little Yorkie. The walk should be at a pace where the dog is moving along steadily; but not out of breath. You will want to walk your Yorkie puppy for a 15 to 20 minute interval.
Bridget goes out for a long one-hour walk first thing in the morning. Then, she has a 20-minute walk in the late or mid-afternoon. Finally, she has a pre-bedtime walk, the length of which depends mainly on the weather. If it’s nice out, she’ll get 15 minutes. If it’s horrible, she’ll get three. Piper gets three walks per day normally, one to the bakery in the morning (about 1km), a longer one in the park in the afternoon (about 2.5km) and a short one in the evening before bed. On agility days she gets an extra one with her agility group of about 3-4km through the woods.
Best Answer: Faye this little working dog needs more than 90 minutes a day, you've done very well because she's now 4 years of age so I suspect she gets play time with you as well, this dog need a good 1 mile trip 3 times a day so try to work that out, in other words = 3 miles a day, oh yes she can do it easily. Report Abuse. you can tell if your dog is getting bored by following you around everywhere and is always wanting you to play. even looking at her lead or going to the door. i think that you should give her a 30min walk before school and then a 30min walk after school which adds up to an hour.