Epidermis is the top layer of skin and the one you can actually see. The dermis is the layer that lies underneath the epidermis, and it is composed entirely of living cells. T … he most important function of dermis is respiration. The various glands such as the oil and sweat glands originate in the lower dermis. Alrighty the epidermis, the upper or outer layer of the skin, is a  tough, waterproof, protective layer. The dermis, or inner layer, is  thicker than the epidermis and gives … the skin its strength and  elasticity. 4 people found this useful. Peakay Tea.
Layers of the Dermis The dermis is composed of two layers. The upper layer, called the stratum papillarosum (papillary layer), is in contact with the epidermis and accounts for about one-fifth of the entire dermis (see fig. 2.2) . Numerous projections, called papillae, extend from the upper portion of the dermis into the epidermis. 1. Stratum basale (basal layer).The stratum basale consists of a single layer of cells in contact with the dermis. Four types of cells compose the stratum basale: keratinocytes, melanocytes, tactile cells (Merkel cells), and nonpigmented granular dendrocytes (Langerhans cells).
The epidermis is the superficial protective layer of the skin. Derived from ectoderm, the epidermis is composed of stratified squamous epithelium that varies in thickness from 0.007 to 0.12 mm. All but the deepest layers are composed of dead cells. 1. Stratum basale (basal layer).The stratum basale consists of a single layer of cells in contact with the dermis. Four types of cells compose the stratum basale: keratinocytes, melanocytes, tactile cells (Merkel cells), and nonpigmented granular dendrocytes (Langerhans cells).
The outer layer is known as the epidermis, and the inner layer is known as the dermis. The bottom of the epidermis,is adjacent to the dermis, is the generating layer of the epidermis and it is in this layer that new cells are formed. The skin is one of the largest organs in the body. The epidermis has many smaller layers. The dermal layer is the growth layer of skin and feeds the epi
Rows of papillae protruding from the dermis into the epidermis form ridges that create patterns on the skin of the hands, feet, and body. These papillary ridges on the fingertips are responsible for fingerprints. These ridges develop sometime before birth. The dermal papillae are small, nipple-like protrusions of the dermis that reach into the epidermis, bringing food and oxygen to the lower layers of epidermal cells. In additio … n, a papilla nourishes every hair follicle.
A fun way to teach kids about their skin is through an activity on fingerprints. The skin has two layers: the dermis and the epidermis. The epidermis is the layer of dead cells on the outside of the body that waterproofs and protects the living tissues underneath. The dermis is the living skin layer that contains blood vessels, sensory receptors, and the dividing cells that create the epidermal layer. The upper part of the dermis has finger-like projections that stick up into the bottom of the epidermis. These projections, called papillae, allow the sensory receptors to be closer to the surface of the skin. In some areas of the body (palm side of hands and fingers, and bottom of feet and toes) the papillary layer is much thicker, causing it to bunch up between the epidermis and the lower dermis layers.
The papillary layer, which is the upper part of the dermis, has tiny, fingerlike projections of tissue called dermal papillae that indent into the epidermis above and bo … nd the two layers of skin together. Alrighty the epidermis, the upper or outer layer of the skin, is a  tough, waterproof, protective layer. The dermis, or inner layer, is  thicker than the epidermis and gives … the skin its strength and  elasticity. 4 people found this useful. Peakay Tea.
The dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis (with which it makes up the cutis) and subcutaneous tissues, that consists of connective tissue and cushions the body from stress and strain. It is divided into two layers, the superficial area adjacent to the epidermis called the papillary region and a deep thicker area known as the reticular dermis. The dermis is tightly connected to the epidermis through a basement membrane.
In the human skin, the dermal papillae (DP) (singular papilla, diminutive of Latin papula, 'pimple') are small, nipple-like extensions (or interdigitations) of the dermis into the epidermis. At the surface of the skin in hands and feet, they appear as epidermal or papillary ridges (colloquially known as fingerprints). Blood vessels in the dermal papillae nourish all hair follicles and bring nutrients and oxygen to the lower layers of epidermal cells. The pattern of ridges they produce in hands and feet are partly genetically determined features that develop before birth