How to Grill Filet Mignon. 1  For a charcoal grill, place the meat on a grill rack directly over medium coals; grill uncovered. 2  For a gas grill, preheat the grill; reduce the heat to medium. 3  Place the filet on the grill rack over the heat. 4  Cover the grill.
A filet, also called a filet mignon, is the smallest and tenderest of all beef steaks. With a size of no more than 2 to 3 inches in diameter and 1 to 2 inches thick, it is the smallest because a filet is a cut from the small end of the tenderloin.
1 Place the filet on the grill rack over the heat. 2  Cover the grill. 3  Use the following timings for grilling filet mignon, and turn once halfway through the grilling time: 4  For a 1-inch cut, grill 10 to 12 minutes for medium rare (145 degrees F) or 12 to 15 minutes for medium (160 degrees F).
Place the steaks on a work surface, and cover the top and bottom with freshly ground pepper if desired. Wait to add salt until serving. Let the steaks rest for 45 minutes to 1 hour to come to room temperature. Preheat the gas grill burners to their highest setting. Hold your hand 2 inches above the grate. When you can hold it there for no more than 5 seconds, bring the steaks to the grill.
Once the steaks have been seared for 3 minutes on each side, cook them for an addition 1-6 minutes on each side by indirect heat, depending on preference and thickness of the steak. For a gas grill, turn the middle burner off, and for a charcoal grill, move the majority of the charcoal to one side and cook on the other.
Set your gas grill to the highest possible temperature and allow it to heat for 30 minutes with the lid down. Place the steak on the grill with a pair of large tongs. Let the steak cook for one minute for rare, two minutes for medium-rare, and three minutes maximum. Rotate the meat 90 degrees on the same side.
1 Place the beef filet mignon on the unheated rack of the broiler pan. 2  Using the following timings, broil the meat, turning once halfway through the broiling time: 3  For a 1-inch filet cut, broil 12 to 14 minutes for medium rare (145 degrees F) or 15 to 18 minutes for medium (160 degrees F).