Parkinson’s disease, depression, psychosis, and epilepsy medications may trigger hallucination symptoms. Other conditions that can cause hallucinations include: 1  terminal illnesses, such as AIDS, brain cancer, or kidney and liver failure. 2  high fevers, especially in children and the elderly.
There are 32 conditions associated with anxiety, depressed mood, flashbacks and hallucinations. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions.
How Anxiety Can Create Hallucinations. Intense anxiety can cause not only fear, but symptoms that create further fear. In many ways, intense anxiety can cause the feeling of going crazy-as though you are losing touch with reality. Sometimes this is nothing more than a feeling or thought. Other times this is caused by additional anxiety symptoms that resemble those of true psychosis. One such symptom is hallucinations. While it's rare for someone with anxiety to truly hallucinate, it's not rare for those with intense anxiety to have various types of mild hallucinations that can cause additional fear over your mental stability.
Chronic stress may lead to psychotic symptoms (hallucinations, delusions), either in the context of post-traumatic stress disorder or depression. In these conditions, when psychosis is present, there are abnormalities in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) stress axis.
Schizophrenia Is a Group of Disorders.  1 positive or psychotic symptoms such as hallucinations and delusions;  2 negative symptoms such as apparent lack of emotion (flat affect) and motivation ( passivity); 3  cognitive impairments such as problems with working and short-term memory.
For a patient with schizophrenia, the death of a parent or other loved one, a change in therapist, moving from one apartment to another; these events can trigger acute anxiety, depression and psychotic episodes, which may lead to hospitalization.
Best Answer: Stress can cause hallucinations, bad breath, ulcers, sleep disorders, pain and about a hundred other physical symptoms. If you have that much stress it may be time to consult a professional.