The molluscs or mollusks /ˈmɒləsks/ compose the large phylum of invertebrate animals known as the Mollusca. Around 85,000 extant species of molluscs are recognized. Molluscs are the largest marine phylum, comprising about 23% of all the named marine organisms. 
The bivalves (meaning two-shells) are perhaps the most well known mollusks simply because of their history as a source of food. Clams, mussels, oysters and scallops are all bivalves. There are about 15,000 known species of bivalve, with about 80% of them being marine (the rest are found in fresh water). © Jonathan Bird/ORG. For educational use only. There are over 50,000 known species of Mollusks, which makes them second only to the Arthropods in invertebrate phylum size. Among the Mollusks are some of the most well known of invertebrate sea creatures, like snails, clams, mussels, squid, and octopods. Although one might not see an obvious physical relationship between a snail and a squid, they are remarkably similar in construction
Mollusks (Phylum Mollusca) are found in marine, brackish, and fresh waters. They include a diverse group of animals such as clams, mussels, oysters, scallops, abalone, conchs, shipworms, snails, nudibranchs, chitons, squids, and octopuses. 
The mollusks or molluscs are the large and diverse phylum Mollusca, which includes a variety of familiar creatures well-known for their decorative shells or as seafood. These … range from tiny snails, clams, and abalone to the octopus, cuttlefish and squid (which are considered the most intelligent invertebrates). Slugs are mollusks because they share defining  characteristics whith other mollusks, such as a mascular foot and  mantle. . 1 person found this useful. Edit.
Cephalopods are one of the smaller mollusk groups at around 800 known species, but they are the most familiar group to many of us thanks to their elaborate, well documented behavior. Cephalopods are found throughout the world oceans at all depths. In this group, only the Nautiluses have a substantial outer shell. There are nearly 100 000 known species and this is likely to be a gross underestimate of the total number, considering how many mollusks we’ve already found in remote habitats, like the deep sea, that we have as yet only barely sampled.
There are nearly 100,000 species of mollusks identified today, with new species being encountered and named every year as new discoveries are made in ocean depths and tropical rainforests. The body of a mollusk is generally composed of the shell and the fleshy, living part. Mollusks. The phylum Mollusca is the largest and most diverse phylum of animals next to arthropods. Mollusks can be found in nearly every ecosystem on earth, from high, barren mountains to grassy plains, lakes, rivers and in all seas and oceans.
The most common sea shells found on modern beaches are mollusks (phyllum Mollusca). The most commonly observed mollusks types (classes) are clams (Pelecypoda), snails (Gastropoda), and squids and octopi (Cephalopoda). These classes also represent the most common mollusk fossils in Kentucky. 
Mollusks were among the first inhabitants of the Earth. Fossils of mollusks have been found in rocks and date back over 500 million years. Mollusk fossils are usually well preserved because of their hard shell. Most mollusks have a soft, skin-like organ covered with a hard outside shell. Some mollusks live on land, such as the snail and slug. Other mollusks live in water, such as the oyster, mussel, clam, squid and octopu