The colonial period of Indonesia did not immediately start when the Dutch first arrived in the archipelago at the end of the 16th century. Instead, it was a slow process of political expansion that took centuries to reach the territorial boundaries of present-day Indonesia. The Ethical Policy and Indonesian Nationalism. When the borderlines of the Dutch Indies began to take the shape of present Indonesia, Queen Wilhelmina made an announcement in her annual speech in 1901 informing that a new policy, the Ethical Policy, would be installed.
The Netherlands formally recognised Indonesian sovereignty at the 1949 Dutch–Indonesian Round Table Conference with the exception of the Netherlands New Guinea (Western New Guinea), which was ceded to Indonesia in 1963 under the provisions of the New York Agreement. In 1898, the population of Java numbered 28 million with another 7 million on Indonesia's outer islands. The first half of 20th century saw large-scale immigration of Dutch and other Europeans to the colony, where they worked in either the government or private sectors.
The first Dutch expedition to Indonesia was in 1595. This was led by Cornelius de Houtman. In 1596 the Dutch expedition had made contact with the Portuguese and Indonesians. Then at the start of the century in 1602, the Dutch East India Company was established. Another name for the Dutch East India Company is the Vereenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie more commonly known as the VOC. The VOC was made to protect trade in the Indian Ocean and to assist in war of independence from Spain.
Indonesia's History and Background. Sukarno, Indonesia's founding president. ANCIENT TIMES. Indonesia did not exist as yet during the Palaeocene period (70 million years BC), the Eocene period (30 million years BC), the Oligacene period (25 million years BC) and the Miocene period (12 million years BC).
the Portuguese discovered Indonesia in 1512, no the dutch. Indonesia was colonized by the dutch in 1603 to 1942. Indonesia was colonized by the dutch for about 300 years! 
The occupation of Indonesia by Japan for three and a half years during World War II was a crucial factor in the subsequent revolution. The Netherlands had little ability to defend its colony against the Japanese army, and within only three months of their initial attacks, the Japanese had occupied the Dutch East Indies. A ceasefire, called for by UN resolution, was ordered by the Dutch and Sukarno on 4 August 1947. During the military action, on 9 December 1947 Dutch troops killed many civilians in the village of Rawagede (now Balongsari in Karawang, West Java).
To split the land in half, the Dutch and the British would sign the Treaty of London. The Dutch would get most of Indonesia and the British would get Malaya, Singapore and other islands. In the same year the Dutch had a direct rule of Raiu. From 1825 to 1830 there was another war called the Java war. Then at the start of the century in 1602, the Dutch East India Company was established. Another name for the Dutch East India Company is the Vereenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie more commonly known as the VOC. The VOC was made to protect trade in the Indian Ocean and to assist in war of independence from Spain.
The independence movement could not retake the cities from the Dutch forces and the Dutch forces could not control the countryside. The stalemate ended when the American Government under Harry Truman threatened to cut off Marshall Plan aid to the Netherlands if the Dutch did not get out of Indonesia. As World War II neared its end Sukarno secured from the Japanese Army arms and training for Indonesians. The Japanese saw this as a source of military aid in repelling the expected Allied invasion. Sukarno saw it as the arming and training of an Indonesian army to resist the return of the Dutch to
The Dutch controlled Indonesia longer and had more influence on Indonesia than any other country. The Dutch had some form of influence on Indonesia from 1602 up until 1949. That is 347 years of influence. Then at the start of the century in 1602, the Dutch East India Company was established. Another name for the Dutch East India Company is the Vereenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie more commonly known as the VOC. The VOC was made to protect trade in the Indian Ocean and to assist in war of independence from Spain.
It took place between Indonesia's declaration of independence in 1945 and the Dutch recognition of Indonesia's independence at the end of 1949. The Indonesian independence movement began in May 1908, which is commemorated as the Tahun Kebangkitan Bangsa (Year of National Awakening). A ceasefire, called for by UN resolution, was ordered by the Dutch and Sukarno on 4 August 1947. During the military action, on 9 December 1947 Dutch troops killed many civilians in the village of Rawagede (now Balongsari in Karawang, West Java).