Click the above links to listen to and/or watch Bible teachings from all three of our main teaching pastors-Pastor Jon Courson, Pastor Ben Courson and Pastor Peter-John Courson. KAPL is the radio station of Applegate Christian Fellowship. The station can be found at AM 1300 as well as on the internet at kaplradio.com. On KAPL you can listen to live coverage of the main services that take place here at the Fellowship, great music, and solid Bible teaching.
By 9, the steady rumble of hundreds of cars turning into the Applegate Christian Fellowship's parking lot drowns out the sound of chirping birds and rustling leaves. By 10, sermons and music broadcast on loudspeakers echo more than a mile away. Joe Stroble, part of Applegate Christian's leadership, says, We believe here that we have one purpose: To preach the gospel to anyone and everyone who wants to hear it.. One-stop shopping. Applegate is one of 700 megachurches in the USA — double the number in 1990.
Applegate Christian Fellowship. Located in Southern Oregon, KAPL is the broadcast ministry of Applegate Christian Fellowship. We provide listeners with the opportunity to tune in LIVE or catch rebroadcasts from all of our main teachings given by Pastors Jon, Ben and Peter-John Courson. Throughout the day, we'll be giving our listeners a feel for what goes on around the church campus, the Mountain Top Retreat Center, and Lake Bradley Christian Camp in Bandon Oregon as a variety of speakers involved in the ministry share over the airwaves.
Our Location. The town of Applegate is a small community in Jackson County, Southern Oregon. It is located 22 miles west of Medford and 25 miles south of Grants Pass (the closest large towns). The Applegate River runs through the middle of the Applegate Valley and is surrounded by numerous mountains and small lakes. A Message from our Elder Board…. It was Jesus who said, “I will build My church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it” (Matthew 16:18).
“The Rev. Jon Courson, the evangelical pastor who built the Applegate Christian Fellowship into the biggest church in Southern Oregon, will leave his post to become a pastor with the 25,000-member Calvary Church in Costa Mesa, Calif. Jon Courson has been appreciated over the years by many people who are my friends and whom I respect. I believe that he preaches the real Jesus and the true Gospel, for which I rejoice. I also believe that his ministry and church organization is a reasonable example with which to examine important issues together.
Conflict in Oregon. Located on 85 acres in southern Oregon's wine and pear country, Applegate Christian Fellowship has a 1,200-seat sanctuary, an outdoor amphitheater that can accommodate 2,500, paved parking for 750 cars, three barbecue pits, 20 cabins, classrooms, child-care facilities and a coffee house. Joe Stroble, part of Applegate Christian's leadership, says, We believe here that we have one purpose: To preach the gospel to anyone and everyone who wants to hear it.. One-stop shopping. Applegate is one of 700 megachurches in the USA — double the number in 1990.
Update 7/29/06: There are now three “Teaching Pastors” at Applegate Christian Fellowship, according to their web site. Jon Courson is now back at Applegate. The other two listed as Teaching Pastors are Jon’s two sons: Peter John and Ben Courson. Jon Courson has been appreciated over the years by many people who are my friends and whom I respect. I believe that he preaches the real Jesus and the true Gospel, for which I rejoice. I also believe that his ministry and church organization is a reasonable example with which to examine important issues together.
Applegate Christian Fellowship was originially founded as a non-demoninational church in 1977, and it later became officially incorporated as a Calvary Chapel affiliate church, a title it holds today. The first gatherings catered to no more than a couple of dozen people, which grew to 8,000 by 2002. The fellowship is affiliated, or has its former pastors at several churches in the area, including Mountain Christian Fellowship and Agua Viva Christian Fellowship in Medford, Oregon, Edgewater Christian Fellowship in Grants Pass, and Ashland Christian Fellowship, among others.
See more info or our list of citable articles. Applegate Christian Fellowship (ACF) is a Christian church located in Ruch, Oregon, an unincorporated hamlet in the Applegate Valley in the vicinity of Jacksonville, Oregon. The fellowship is affiliated, or has its former pastors at several churches in the area, including Mountain Christian Fellowship and Agua Viva Christian Fellowship in Medford, Oregon, Edgewater Christian Fellowship in Grants Pass, and Ashland Christian Fellowship, among others.