Graduation July 2015 - Robe Hire. If you wish to attend your ceremony it is compulsory to wear academic dress (robes, hood and hat) in accordance with the University's Regulations. You should hire or purchase these directly from the official robe makers for the University, Ede & Ravenscroft. Robe ordering opens on 2 March and the deadline for orders is 26 June 2015. Order your robes online at www.edeandravenscroft.co.uk/graduation-services/ or over the telephone on 01223 861 854.
A. Please book early to be sure of your order as we cannot always guarantee an order if you leave your booking later than 21 days before your Ceremony (being the date agreed for the Hire outfit to be available). A. Where Ede & Ravenscroft are providing the photography service and depending on the options selected, prices start as low as £15 for a basic award print up to £200 for a canvas print in a mahogany frame.
Your gown should be ordered at least three weeks before the congregations from Ede & Ravenscroft, who are the University's official gown supplier. The cost of hiring an academic gown is dependent on your level of award, but typically costs between £40 and £70. You can then have your photographs taken (this can be done before or after the congregation), order your DVD, buy memorabilia, talk to our Postgraduate Study team and then take your seats in the Brangwyn Hall (also part of the Guildhall complex).
Ordering and prices. Your academic dress can be hired or purchased from Ede and Ravenscroft. They will be able to supply you with the appropriate hat, hood and gown for your graduation ceremony. The deadline for ordering your gown is Friday 26 June 2015. Orders need to be made through the Ede and Ravenscoft website where you will also be able to place an order for your official graduation photograph. Refunds. If you are unable to attend graduation, you can obtain a refund by notifying Ede and Ravenscroft in writing seven days before your ceremony date. They will refund your charge, less £1.50 to cover administrative costs. The process for claiming a refund can be found on the Ede and Ravenscoft website.
This enables you to wear the outfit for your graduation ceremony and have private and official photos taken if you want. If you opt for Extra 7 days hire you can take the robes away from where you had your graduation ceremony and keep them for one week, returning them to us in the postage paid bag provided. Instructions regarding the use of this bag are listed inside the bag. A. Where Ede & Ravenscroft are providing the photography service and depending on the options selected, prices start as low as £15 for a basic award print up to £200 for a canvas print in a mahogany frame.
Ede & Ravenscroft Charges February 2015 Gown Hire Charges Web Phone All Bachelors Degrees, including LLB, MBChB & BSc £45 £50 All Masters Degrees, including MEng, MSci & LLM £51 £56 All Higher Degrees, including EdD and DPhil £58 £63 All Higher Doctorates £58 £63 REFUNDS will be given up to 7 days before the ceremony. TRANSFERS from one ceremony to another can be applied for any time without extra cost, but refunds will not be given if subsequently cancelled. Notice to Buy Bachelors - 4 Weeks, Master Degrees 4 - 6 Weeks, Higher Degrees and Doctorates 8 - 12 Weeks.
To hire your graduation gown, hood and mortar board for the day will cost around £50-£60, depending on which degree you are being presented for. The exact price for your particular robes will be confirmed once you place your order with Ede & Ravenscroft. 
No. There are no graduation fees at the University of Edinburgh. There is, however, a charge for the hiring of your hood and gown from Ede & Ravenscroft. The cost of hire is dependant upon when you order: approximately £42 if ordered online prior to ceremony rising to approximately £50 if ordered on the day. The wearing of a hood and gown is mandatory. 
A. You may be able to place a late order. Go to the enquiry desk in the robing area early on the day of your ceremony and our staff will do their best to help you. We are usually only able to accept cash or cheques at the ceremony. Please note we cannot guarantee we will be able to provide robes for late orders. A. Where Ede & Ravenscroft are providing the photography service and depending on the options selected, prices start as low as £15 for a basic award print up to £200 for a canvas print in a mahogany frame.
Applications for hiring regalia for the Graduation Ceremony are made when you apply online to graduate. The regalia hire cost is $80, with a $20 refund when you return your gown. You can collect your regalia from the New Zealand Federation of Graduate Women premises at 9 Creyke Road, Ilam, Christchurch on Thursday 7 April between 8.15am to 5.30pm. This section covers your regalia-hire, wear and return. This section covers your regalia-hire, wear and return. What to wear on the day. Academic regalia must be worn by all those graduating but here are some tips on how to be comfortable