Please use this list of Arabic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Sayida in Arabic origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Loving female voice. Yes, this is a true and a known fact that babies love the sound and voice of a female and prefer the same over the voice of the male. This might be the reason why babies are more close to their age during infancy.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Sayyida in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Sayyida in Nautical Flags page.
Sayyida is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Say-yi-da. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Sayyida Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sayyida has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sayyida to other names. Just for fun, see the name Sayyida in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Sayyida in Nautical Flags page.
Yes, the breathing rate of the new born baby is faster than that of an adult. The new born babies breathe for about 40 times per minute. This is around 2 times faster rate than that of an adult. Loving female voice. Yes, this is a true and a known fact that babies love the sound and voice of a female and prefer the same over the voice of the male. This might be the reason why babies are more close to their age during infancy.
Most of the new born have blue eyes right after their birth. This is because of the absence of the melanin tissue during birth. After the age of six months or one year in some cases, the melanin tissue starts getting activated, changing their eye colour. Loving female voice. Yes, this is a true and a known fact that babies love the sound and voice of a female and prefer the same over the voice of the male. This might be the reason why babies are more close to their age during infancy.
Largest collection of Islamic baby names with meanings. Islam is the world's second largest religion, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia and Iran have large population of Muslim. These baby name lists are organised alphabetically. Whether you are the Mother or Father of a New Cute Baby, This List has been created to Help the parents and can be used to suggest from the list. We Have Collected a List of Modern Arabic Baby Names with their Meaning. These Names are Modern as well as Unique.
[ syll. sa-yyi-da, say-y- ida ] The baby girl name Sayyida is pronounced as S-AY-IH DAH †. The origin of Sayyida is the Arabic language. The name means a mistress. Sayida, Sayyda, Sayyidah, Seyada, Seyida, Seyyada, and Seyyida are variant transcriptions of Sayyida. Sayyida is a rare baby girl name. It is not listed in the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Sayyida include Sayyidah, Sa'ida, Saadiqa, Sadaka, Sadako, Sadea, Sadia, Sadiah, Sadika, Sadiqa, Sadiqaa, Sadiqua, Sadiquah, Sadiya, Sadiyah, Sadiyyah, Sadya, Sadyah, Sadyqa, and Saedea.
[ syll. sa-yi-da, say-ida ] The baby girl name Sayida is pronounced as S EY-IH DAH †. The origin of Sayida is the Arabic language. Sayida is a variant form of the African, Arabic, Swahili, and English name Saida. Sayida is also a variant form of the name Sayyida. Sayida is a rarely used baby name for girls. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names. 