Synthetic lubricants continue to gain market share, thanks to higher performance properties that, for many uses, trump higher per-drum costs. Demand in the United States has grown to $2.2 billion per year, and is a resulting benefit of stricter environmental and worker safety requirements.
A synthetic lubricant contains more highly refined base oils than those used in conventional mineral oils, offering you superior protection and performance. Synthetic engine oils provide a variety of benefits that keep your engine running at optimal performance for years.
In all these important respects, synthetic lubricants can outperform mineral oils, offering significant advantages over conventional engine oils, such as: 1  Excellent Low Temperature Flow Performance -- Pour point is a measure of a lubricant’s ability to flow at low temperatures.
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of chemical compounds that are artificially made (synthesized). Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components rather than whole crude oil, but can also be synthesized from other raw materials.
Super Lube is a patented, multi-purpose synthetic lubricant, containing Syncolon (PTFE) particles held in suspension. Super Lube lasts longer and outperforms conventional petroleum-based greases and oils. It comes in Grease form, Oil with Syncolon and a Lightweight Synthetic Oil.
A synthetic lubricant contains more highly refined base oils than those used in conventional mineral oils, offering you superior protection and performance. Synthetic engine oils provide a variety of benefits that keep your engine running at optimal performance for years.
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating in extremes of temperature, because, in general, it provides superior mechanical and chemical properties to those found in traditional mineral oils.
When the temperature drops, motor oils thicken and move slower, causing parts of your engine to remain unprotected for a short period of time. AMSOIL is more fluid at cold temperatures than the tested conventional oil, giving you 36% easier and faster cold starts*.