Normal urine is clear and has a straw-yellow color. While the odor of urine can vary somewhat, in most cases, it does not have a strong smell. With dehydration, the urine is more concentrated and may have a stronger ammonia scent than normal. Consumption of certain foods, such as asparagus (which can impart a characteristic odor to urine), and taking some medications may be causes for changes in the odor of urine.
Urine doesn't typically have a strong smell, but if yours smells pungent (like ammonia), you could have an infection or urinary stones, or you may simply be dehydrated. Dehydration causes your urine to be more concentrated and may have a stronger smell than normal, as do high-protein foods like meat and eggs.
Of course, urine itself does not have a smell; it is the concentration of various chemicals in it. And when you are dehydrated, there is less water in your urine, making both a darker yellow color and a stronger odor from all the concentrated chemicals.
Causes. Urine odor is related to the volume and concentration of a variety of substances excreted by the kidneys. Normally, urine that contains a lot of water has little to no odor. If your urine becomes highly concentrated — a high level of waste products with little water — urine odor may have a strong ammonia smell. Many foods and medications, such as asparagus or certain vitamins, can affect the odor of urine.
Ammonia smelling urine can be a sign of several medical conditions, some of which have been observed to be more prevalent in women. So, let's find out the common factors that can cause urine to smell like ammonia. Urine in itself does not have a strong smell, unless it is concentrated. Dehydration, often causes foul-smelling urine. When you are dehydrated, the amount of water in the urine decreases, while that of ammonia and other chemicals increases, which makes the urine more concentrated, and changes its color and odor.
Another cause of ammonia smelling urine can be from a bacterial infection, in the kidneys the urinary tract, or infection in the bladder, and is most commonly found in women, simply because of the positioning of anatomical features.