DEFINITION of 'Supranational'. An international organization, or union, whereby member states transcend national boundaries. or interests to share in the decision-making and vote on issues pertaining to the wider grouping. Next Up. In the EU, each member votes on policy that will affect each member nation. The benefits of this construct for the EU are the synergies derived from social and economic policies along with a stronger presence on the international stage.
1 While initially established by national governments, supranational EU institutions develop a degree of autonomy from the control of governments. 2  Thus, the EU is a crossroads where subnational, national, supranational, and international policy-making all intersect. 1 Thus, the EU is a crossroads where subnational, national, supranational, and international policy-making all intersect. 2  We must break the present supranational controls over nation-states, by the financial oligarchy.
The term supranational is sometimes used in a loose, undefined sense in other contexts, sometimes as a substitute for international, transnational or global. Another method of decision-making in international organisations is intergovernmentalism, in which state governments play a more prominent role. A supranational union, because it is an agreement between sovereign states, is based on international treaties. The European treaties in general are different from classical treaties as they are constitutionalizing treaties, that is, they provide the basis for a European level of democracy and European rule of law.
An organization that exists in multiple countries. While, theoretically, supranational could refer to multinational corporations, the term most often describes an international government or quasi-government organization. Examples include the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund. Supranational organizations often have a direct role in regulation. For example, an international treaty may set up certain standards for international trade.
Devolution is the statutory granting of powers from the central government of a sovereign state to govern at a subnational level, such as a regional, local, or state level. It is a form of decentralization. Devolved territories have the power to make legislation relevant to the area. Devolution differs from federalism in that the devolved powers of the subnational authority may be temporary and ultimately reside in central government, thus the state remains, de jure unitary.
Supranational Institutions. A supranational entity is formed by two or more central governments to promote economic development for the member countries. Supranational Institutions finance their activities by issuing bond debt and are usually considered part of the sub-sovereign debt market. Some well-known examples of supranational institutions are the World Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; European Investment Bank; Asian Development Bank, Inter-American Development Bank. Supranational institutions sell their bonds on local markets of member countries and in the Eurobond market.
1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) beyond the authority or jurisdiction of one national government: the supranational institutions of the EU. India's Asha Bhat wins Miss Supranational 2014 title by Times of Oman (Muscat, Oman). Especially with the. issuers, these are A-rated, we are in that space, and the corporate issuers that are now coming through also fit in with our investment strategy.
A supranational union is a type of multinational political union where negotiated power is delegated to an authority by governments of member states. A supranational union, because it is an agreement between sovereign states, is based on international treaties. The European treaties in general are different from classical treaties as they are constitutionalizing treaties, that is, they provide the basis for a European level of democracy and European rule of law.
The concept of supranational union is sometimes used to describe the European Union (EU), as a new type of political entity. A supranational union, because it is an agreement between sovereign states, is based on international treaties. The European treaties in general are different from classical treaties as they are constitutionalizing treaties, that is, they provide the basis for a European level of democracy and European rule of law.