The most dangerous truck drivers on the road are those with under 2 years of experience, regardless of age. It’s likely that if we simply raise the driving age, we will only shift the “problem drivers” to a higher age bracket. By the way, be sure to check out these tips for driving around semi trucks.
Lower it to 18, heck lower it to 16 and raise the driving age to 18. by William on Aug 19, 2008 7:38 pm • link • report. If I remember correctly, the problem was with an 18 year old law, a lot of 16 year olds got to drink, and then drive. Not good.
It’s your health — not your age — that matters most in driving safely. As you get older, you may notice physical changes or changes in other abilities. For example, you may have difficulty seeing at night or may not react as quickly to sudden changes.
Some parents just do not want their children to drive when they are teenagers because parents start to get a little worried. The driving age should be raised up to 18 because teens can be a little careless. Driving at the age of 18 is a more mature age for teens because they can have more responsibility. Teens should not be driving at the age of 16 because they could be texting and driving or drinking and driving with some friends.
The minimum age to obtain one's driver’s license should not be raised to 18 because 16-year-olds have a much more focused mind. If you change the minimum driving age to 18, it will be very little different from 16-year-olds because either way they wouldn't have very much driving experience. Also from the years of 16 to 18, a young person’s maturity level doesn’t rise much at all.
As people get older, their driving patterns change. Retirement, different schedules, and new activities affect when and where they drive. Most older adults drive safely because they have a lot of experience behind the wheel.
Age-related changes that may affect driving include changes in vision, hearing, attention and reaction time, and strength, flexibility, and coordination. Medications and certain health conditions can also affect people in ways that make driving dangerous.