A lis pendens is the formal notice that starts the foreclosure process. This may refer to any pending lawsuit or to a specific situation with a public notice of litigation that has been recorded in the same location where the title of real property has been recorded.
Lis Pendens is Latin for Suit Pending. It means someone has a claim, valid or not against the property in question or its owner, and filed a notice in the public records. Release means there is a cancellation which has been filed, cancelling or negating the lien or lis pendens notice.
Lis Pendens Releases. Lis pendens is a favored tool used by mortgage lenders when it comes to foreclosure. A lis pendens filed on a real property's title informs parties with an interest in that real property that a lawsuit involving that property is pending.
Latin for a suit pending, a written notice that a lawsuit has been filed which concerns the title to real property or some interest in that real property. The lis pendens (or notice of pending action) is filed with the clerk of the court, certified that it has been filed, and then recorded with the county recorder.
Lis pendens is the term that lawyers use for a pending lawsuit that is related to the title (ownership) of the property. The term “lis pendens” is Latin, and it means Lawsuit pending.” A lis pendens is essentially a notice to the public that the property’s ownership is in dispute.
Latin for a suit pending, a written notice that a lawsuit has been filed which concerns the title to real property or some interest in that real property. The lis pendens (or notice of pending action) is filed with the clerk of the court, certified that it has been filed, and then recorded with the County Recorder.
Lis pendens is a formal notice of pending legal action, such as you might see in an upcoming foreclosure lawsuit. When a legal action against a homeowner is dropped, dismissal notices and releases of lis pendens also are filed.
It is a document that would release (undo) a previously recorded notice of lis pendens, and is in the nature of a release of lien. It is something the owner of the property against which it is recorded should insist upon at the conclusion of the litigation, regardless of who wins, but once any judgment is satisfied.
A lis pendens is a written notice that a lawsuit has been filed involving the title to real estate, property or some interest in that real property. It is a notice to the defe … ndant who owns the property and also to potential buyers or financiers.