If a random variable is a continuous variable, its probability distribution is called a continuous probability distribution. A continuous probability distribution differs from a discrete probability distribution in several ways. 1  The probability that a continuous random variable will assume a particular value is zero.
From these two examples, it can be seen that there are two types of variables as quantitative and qualitative depending on whether the domain of the variable is numeric with normal arithmetic operations possible or not. Those quantitative variables are of two types: discrete variables and continuous variables.
Between any two values of a continuous random variable, there are an infinite number of other valid values. This is not the case for discrete random variables, because between any two discrete values, there is an integer number (0, 1, 2, ...) of
The random variable is continuous over a range if there is an infinite number of possible values that the variable can take between any two different points in the range. For example, height, weight, and time are typically assumed to be continuous.
The number of questions correct would be discrete--there are a finite and countable number of questions. Time to complete a task is continuous since it could take 178.8977687 seconds. Time forms an interval from 0 to infinity. You can usually tell the difference between discrete and continuous data because discrete usually can be preceded by number of.... Here are some examples of discrete and continuous data.
In mathematics, variables are either continuous or discrete, depending on whether or not there are gaps between a value that the variable could take on and any other permitted values.
Discrete vs. Continuous Variables. If a variable can take on any value between two specified values, it is called a continuous variable; otherwise, it is called a discrete variable. Some examples will clarify the difference between discrete and continuous variables.
There are two types of random variables discrete and continuous. Random variables that can assume only a countable number of values are called discrete. Random variables that can take on any of the countless number of values in an interval are calle