Feeding price involve costs for hay, grain and vitamins. Currently, the cost of raising goats is just cheap compared to other livestock. Dairy goats can be purchased between 100 to 300 dollars while 150 to 350 for a Pygmy goat. For feeding, alfalfa hay costs 9 to 12 dollars per bale. Grain is priced at 9 dollars per bag of 50 pounds. The cost for land and shelter include on yearly tax, cost for leasing, fertilization, fencing and guard animals. Health costs include vaccinations, medicine, and other medical supplies.
This provides for the transfer of antibodies in the colostrum to the kids. Kids from immunized does, who received a CD&T booster 3 to 6 weeks before kidding, should get their first CD&T vaccination at 10 to 12 weeks of age, with a booster 3-4 weeks later and a second booster 3-4 weeks after that. The C and D component vaccinates goats against a disease called enterotoxemia, caused by the bacteria Clostridium perfringens type C or D. Goats are very susceptible to this disease, whereas sheep, once vaccinated, are more resistant. The T is to vaccinate against tetanus, caused by the bacteria Clostridium tetani.
1 Wethers, or neutered male goats, are typically cheaper, often sold for around $100. 2  Bucks, unneutered males, are next in price, typically between $150 and $250. 3  Does, or female goats, range from $250 to $300. 4  Wethers or does make the easiest pets. 1 A 40-pound bale will last one to two months and can be purchased for between $3.50 and $8.25, depending on where you live. 2  Supplement the hay with a goat chow and yeast culture. 3  Purina makes a chow for $50 and lasts several months. 4  A 50-pound bag of yeast culture will cost about $40 and will last several years.
But in some cases, if a vaccinated goat does get the disease, it will be shorter and less severe, and the goat is less likely to die. And the cost of vaccinating is minor compared with treating the disease or paying to replace a dead goat. A number of vaccines are used to prevent disease in goats. Just what vaccines do your goats need to be healthy? Well, most veterinarians recommend that, at a minimum, you vaccinate goats for clostridium perfringens types C and D and tetanus (CDT). This vaccine prevents tetanus and enterotoxemia that's caused by two different bacteria.
To minimize the chance of an adverse reaction, vaccinate goats only when they are in good health. Do not use expired or cloudy vaccines. Use a 20-gauge, 1-inch or 3/4-inch needle on an adult, or a 1/2-inch needle on a kid. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for dosage. Just what vaccines do your goats need to be healthy? Well, most veterinarians recommend that, at a minimum, you vaccinate goats for clostridium perfringens types C and D and tetanus (CDT). This vaccine prevents tetanus and enterotoxemia that's caused by two different bacteria.
1 Goats range in price from $75 to $300, depending on factors including sex, age and temperament. 2  Wethers, or neutered male goats, are typically cheaper, often sold for around $100. 3  Bucks, unneutered males, are next in price, typically between $150 and $250. 1 A 40-pound bale will last one to two months and can be purchased for between $3.50 and $8.25, depending on where you live. 2  Supplement the hay with a goat chow and yeast culture. 3  Purina makes a chow for $50 and lasts several months. 4  A 50-pound bag of yeast culture will cost about $40 and will last several years.
1 For a standard breed, an enclosure will cost between $300 and $600 depending on size and durability. 2  The home will need to be scattered with hay as bedding, which will need replaced about once a month at a cost of about $10. 3  Food. 4  Goats are vegetarian. 1 A 40-pound bale will last one to two months and can be purchased for between $3.50 and $8.25, depending on where you live. 2  Supplement the hay with a goat chow and yeast culture. 3  Purina makes a chow for $50 and lasts several months. 4  A 50-pound bag of yeast culture will cost about $40 and will last several years.
I vaccinate all goats against CL. I vaccinate kids no sooner than four to six months of age, and I do *not* vaccinate them against any other disease at the same time. I give the two-shot initial vaccination series 21 to 30 days apart, although the bottle directions state less time in between shots. A booster vaccination (also 2 cc's SQ) must be given in three to four weeks. I give the second CD/T vaccination when the kid is two months old. All adult goats brought anew to your property should immediately receive the two-shot series of CD/T. Don't assume that the previous owner vaccinated them.