Expiration Date. Most drivers in the Old North State will have their regular driver's license expire after a certain number of years depending on your age. 1  If license was issued when you were age 18-65, it would be valid for eight (8) years. 
The NC DMV will send you a renewal card approximately 60 days before your driver's license expires. However, you can renew your driver's license up to 180 days before its expiration date. Depending on your age and the duration of your NC driver's license, you will have to pay the renewal fee of $4 per year: 1  18 to 65 years old: 8 years. 2  66 years old and above: 5 years.
1 The expiration year depends on your age when the expiring license was issued or renewed. ( 2 An eight year license is issued to people between ages 18-53 and a five year license to those over 54 years). 3  The NC Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV) will send you a renewal notice 60 days prior to the expiration date. TO RENEW IN PERSON. 1  Your expiring license or two identity documents if the expiring license is not available. 2  Your Social Security Number. 3  Renewal fee depending on type of license (usually $4 per year but could vary depending on validity).
Fees to Renew Your NC Driver's License. Depending on your age and the duration of your NC driver's license, you will have to pay the renewal fee of $4 per year: 1  18 to 65 years old: 8 years. 2  66 years old and above: 5 years.
You will need to visit your local NC DMV office to obtain your permanent North Carolina license within 60 days of your return. You must have: 1  A permanent and verifiable residential address in North Carolina. 2  A NC driver's license that has not been expired for more than 1 year. Depending on your age and the duration of your NC driver's license, you will have to pay the renewal fee of $4 per year: 1  18 to 65 years old: 8 years. 2  66 years old and above: 5 years.
If you have an expired license, you can still renew it one year after the expiration of the license. The requirements for renewing an expired license are the same as renewing in person. However, it is extremely important to note that operating a vehicle with an expired license is not permitted by the law. Renewal of a license through the mail is only available to drivers who are not living in the state of North Carolina for at least a month or 30 days before the expiration of their license.
1 (An eight year license is issued to people between ages 18-53 and a five year license to those over 54 years). 2  The NC Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV) will send you a renewal notice 60 days prior to the expiration date. TO RENEW IN PERSON. 1  Your expiring license or two identity documents if the expiring license is not available. 2  Your Social Security Number. 3  Renewal fee depending on type of license (usually $4 per year but could vary depending on validity).
Before your license expires, the DMV will mail you a reminder card explaining the number of years it will be valid. The card is not required in order to renew. If you do not have your current or expired license at renewal, you will be required to show the examiner two documents of identification. In addition, proof of social security number is required. See the below link for more specific documentation and requirements information. Source(s): www.onlinedmv.com/NC.
Yet, Louisiana drivers have only a 10-day grace period in which to renew an expired license before a $15 delinquent fee kicks in. Before it’s actually time to renew your license, check your state’s license renewal requirements for information on grace periods; if you need further assistance, contact your DMV. 1 You might have to pay late fees or, depending on how long it’s been expired, the cost to apply all over again. 2  The vision, written, and driving exams. 3  If you have to reapply for your driver’s license, most likely you’ll have to pass these exams again.
Learn how to complete an NC drivers license renewal my mail, online, or in person at an NC drivers license office. The need for a North Carolina drivers license renewal will depend on the driver's age. If you are 18 to 53 years of age, the license is valid for a total of eight years. In contrast, a person who is 54 years old and above has a license that is valid for five years. Renewal of a license through the mail is only available to drivers who are not living in the state of North Carolina for at least a month or 30 days before the expiration of their license.