In biology, a spore is a unit of asexual reproduction that may be adapted for dispersal and for survival, often for extended periods of time, in unfavorable conditions. By contrast, gametes are units of sexual reproduction. Spores form part of the life cycles of many plants, algae, fungi and protozoa. 1 Urediniospores: spores produced by a uredinium in some fungi such as rusts or smuts. 2  Teliospores: spores produced by a telium in some fungi such as rusts or smuts. 3  Oospores: spores produced by an oogonium, characteristic of oomycetes.
Fern is a generic term used to describe a group of plants with common physical and biological features. Ferns are seedless, vascular plants that have roots, stems and fronds … . They repoduce by spores and do not produce flowers like angiosperms. Mother ferns, Asplenium viviparum, and A. bulbiferum, are two species of fern where small clones grow directly from the fronds of the parent. When the clones are large enough, … they fall off the parent, and take root in the substrate below
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Fungi depend on other plants. Ferns make their own food. A fern has one more step (Prothallus). Fungi do not. ferns need fertilization. Fungi do not need fertilization. Ferns are vascular plants and fungi belong to non-vascular category 3. The main plant body in ferns is d … ifferentiated into root, stem and leaves; fungi are mostly made up of filamentous mycelium.
Bracken (Pteridium) is a genus of large, coarse ferns in the family Dennstaedtiaceae. Ferns (Pteridophyta) are vascular plants that have alternating generations, large plants that produce spores and small plants that produce sex cells (eggs and sperm). Brackens are noted for their large, highly divided leaves. Like other ferns, brackens do not have seeds or fruits, but the immature fronds, known as fiddleheads, are sometimes eaten, although some are thought to be carcinogenic. (see Poisoning). The word bracken is of Old Norse origin, related to Swedish braeken bräken And danish, bregne both meaning. fern
Powdery mildew or white mold, is caused by a fungus that spreads between plants. It is more prevalent on ferns when the plant is kept in a wet environment. If your ferns are outside, cool nights followed by warm days can make the problem worse. Identification. When you notice white or gray mold or powder on the leaves of your fern plant, the culprit is a fungal disease known as powdery mildew. Powdery mildew is a common plant disease that attacks ferns, as well as roses, garden vegetable plants and other types of houseplants.
Definition. The blight fungus, or Rhizoctonia aerial blight, is a fungal disease that attacks ornamental plants, including Boston ferns, during the hot, humid days of summer. The common name of the fungus is somewhat confusing, because the pathogen actually lives in the soil. Boston ferns (Nephrolepis exaltata Bostoniensis) are desirable for their ease of care and graceful appearance. The long, slender fronds are especially attractive in a container or hanging basket. Boston ferns are grown indoors as houseplants and outdoors in the garden.