Most people get plenty of phosphorus in their diets. The mineral is found in milk, grains, and protein rich foods. Some health conditions such as diabetes, starvation, and alcoholism can cause levels of phosphorus in the body to fall. When there is more phosphorus than calcium in the body, the body will use calcium stored in bones. This can cause osteoporosis (brittle bones) and lead to gum and teeth problems. A balance of dietary calcium and phosphorus can lower the risk of osteoporosis.
Importance of Phosphorus to Plants. Phosphorus is a component of the complex nucleic acid structure of plants, which regulates protein synthesis. Phosphorus is, therefore, important in cell division and development of new tissue. Phosphorus is also associated with complex energy transformations in the plant. 
Most body phosphorus is located in bones and teeth. Phosphorus is an essential mineral primarily used for growth and repair of body cells and tissues. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, all body cells contain phosphorus, with 85 percent found in bones and teeth.
Next to calcium, phosphorus is the most abundant mineral in the body. These 2 important nutrients work closely together to build strong bones and teeth. About 85% of the body's phosphorus is in bones and teeth. Phosphorous is also present in smaller amounts in cells and tissues throughout the body. Phosphorus helps filter out waste in the kidneys and plays an essential role in how the body stores and uses energy. It also helps reduce muscle pain after a hard workout. When there is more phosphorus than calcium in the body, the body will use calcium stored in bones. This can cause osteoporosis (brittle bones) and lead to gum and teeth problems. A balance of dietary calcium and phosphorus can lower the risk of osteoporosis.
By Heather Rhoades. The function of phosphorus in plants is very important. It helps a plant convert other nutrients into usable building blocks with which to grow. Phosphorus is one of the main three nutrients most commonly found in fertilizers and is the “P” in the NPK balance that is listed on fertilizers. 
Phosphorus is a mineral found in the body. About 85 percent of the phosphorus in the body is in bones. Phosphorus is the body’s next most abundant mineral after calcium. The body uses phosphorus to: 1  form strong bones and teeth. 2  maintain a normal pH balance. 3  get oxygen to tissues. 4  create energy. 5  change protein, fat and carbohydrate into energ
Phosphorus is a chemical element with symbol P and atomic number 15. As an element, phosphorus exists in two major forms— white phosphorus and red phosphorus —but due to its high reactivity, phosphorus is never found as a free element on Earth. Instead phosphorus-containing minerals are almost always present in their maximally oxidised state, as inorganic phosphate rocks. Phosphorus is not found free in nature, but it is widely distributed in many minerals, mainly phosphates. Inorganic phosphate rock, which is partially made of apatite (an impure tri-calcium phosphate mineral), is today the chief commercial source of this element.
It is needed for bone and tooth formation (85% of phosphorus is found in the skeletal system), cell growth (and production of DNA/RNA), heart muscle contraction, and kidney function (waste filtration). Balance between phosphorus, calcium and magnesium is important-excessive/insufficient amounts of any one of these can adversely affect the body. Excessive amount of phosphorus (more than 1-g daily) can cause diarrhea and hardening of the organs/soft tissue.
The mineral phosphorus is a major component of bones and teeth, second only to calcium. Phosphorus helps to maintain a normal pH (acid-base balance) in the body and generates and utilizes energy. Almost all foods contain phosphorus. Particularly rich sources include dairy products (milk, yogurt, ice cream, cheese), meat, poultry, fish, tofu and eggs. Food additives added during food processing can also contribute to phosphorus intake, such as the phosphoric acid found in soft drinks.