What You Should Know: 1  Learn how to change your name on your Social Security card. 2  Within 60 days of changing your name, you must visit your local Department of Driver Services to get a new driver's license. 1 Within 60 days of changing your name, you must visit your local Department of Driver Services to get a new driver's license. 2  If you change your name only once during your current license period, the name change is free. 3  Read more about how to change your name with the Department of Driver Services.
With your Social Security number carrying so much importance, it’s imperative you update any identity changes with the Social Security Administration (SSA) . If, for instance, you change your name due to divorce, marriage, or creative whimsy, you need to contact the SSA immediately. Failing to notify the SSA could possibly delay future tax refunds and prevent your wages from being correctly assigned to your record, thus diminishing your Social Security benefits. After processing your information, the SSA will issue you a new Social Security card with your new name. Your Social Security number, however, will remain the same.
1 Learn how to change your name on your Social Security card. 2  Within 60 days of changing your name, you must visit your local Department of Driver Services to get a new driver's license. 3  If you change your name only once during your current license period, the name change is free. 1 Within 60 days of changing your name, you must visit your local Department of Driver Services to get a new driver's license. 2  If you change your name only once during your current license period, the name change is free. 3  Read more about how to change your name with the Department of Driver Services.
on Your Social Security Card: To change your name on your Social Security card you will need to complete the SS-5 form, but be sure not to sign it if you are filing in person (the clerk needs to witness you). If you choose to mail in your form along with the required accompanying documents, then you DO need to sign the form.
You can change the name on your Social Security card and record by applying through the mail or in person at a local Social Security office. This can be done separately from, or together with, applying for a gender change. You will need to submit an Application for a Social Security Card, proof of your identity and citizenship or immigration status, as well as acceptable proof of the name change. In general, SSA will accept any of the following as proof of a name change: 1  Name change court order (original or certified copy);
You cannot apply for a card online. There is no charge for a Social Security card. This service is free. To get a corrected Social Security card, you will need to: 1  Show the required documents. 2  You will need proof of your identity. 3  Sometimes you also may need to prove your current U.S. citizenship or lawful noncitizen status. 4  See Learn What Documents You Need for more information. 
To change your name on your Social Security card: 1  Complete an Application For A Social Security Card (Form SS-5); and. 2  Show documents proving: 3  Legal name change; and. 4  Identity; and. 5  U.S. citizenship (if you have not already established your citizenship with us), or immigration status if you are not a U.S. citizen. 
It is important to figure out what the name change policy is in your state, because the Social Security office will allow you to change your missle name even if your state doesn't allow it, resulting in mismatched personal identification documents and a ton of potential headaches. To change your name on your Social Security card you will need to complete the SS-5 form, but be sure not to sign it if you are filing in person (the clerk needs to witness you).
Overview: To change your name, submit a petition to your local Superior Court that details the reasons you'd like to change your name. After the court approves your request, you'll then need to update your Social Security card, driver's license and passport. 1 Within 60 days of changing your name, you must visit your local Department of Driver Services to get a new driver's license. 2  If you change your name only once during your current license period, the name change is free. 3  Read more about how to change your name with the Department of Driver Services.