City finder. The geography of Ecuador is quite diverse for a country that only covers a total of 283,560 square kilometers-of which 6,720 square kilometers is made up of water. Agricultural areas are found next to the rivers and at the foot of the Andes. With a varied geography, Ecuador is an interesting country to explore-there is literally almost always something new to discover waiting just around the next corner. geography, coastal plains, highlands, jungle, tropical, volcanoes.
Ecuador is divided into three continental regions—the Costa (coast), Sierra (mountains), and Oriente (east)—and one insular region, the Galapagos Galápagos (islands Officially archipielago Archipiélago). De colon colón the continental regions extend the length of the country from north to south and are Separated By. the andes mountains Ecuador is divided into three continental regions—the Costa (coast), Sierra (mountains), and Oriente (east)—and one insular region, the Galapagos Galápagos (islands Officially archipielago Archipiélago). d
The Republic of the Equator was one of three countries that emerged from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others are Colombia and Venezuela). Between 1904 and 1942, Ecuador lost territories in a series of conflicts with its neighbors. A border war with Peru that flared in 1995 was resolved in 1999. Although Ecuador marked 25 years of civilian governance in 2004, the period has been marred by political instability. Seven presidents have governed Ecuador since 1996.
Ecuador Geography. Ecuador Geography is diverse enough for a nation whose total area is not very vast and where much of the land is covered with water. Ecuador Geography gives a person valuable information about the geographical statistics of the country. The name of Ecuador echoes a suggestion, that is situated on the Equator. The neighboring countries are Columbia and Peru. The pacific ocean lies on the western side of Ecuador. Ecuador Geography boasts of having an ocean area of some 200 nautical miles. The Galapagos Islands also constitute a segment of Ecuador. 
Ecuador is a country in western South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean at the Equator, for which the country is named. Ecuador encompasses a wide range of natural formations and climates, from the desert-like southern coast to the snowcapped peaks of the Andes mountain range to the plains of the Amazon Basin. Ecuador is divided into three continental regions—the Costa (coast), Sierra (mountains), and Oriente (east)—and one insular region, the Galapagos Galápagos (islands Officially archipielago Archipiélago). de colon colón
Ecuador is located on the northwestern coast of South America, between Peru to the south and east and Colombia to the north. The famous Galapagos Galápagos islands belong To, ecuador and are located 1,000 1000 kilometers off the. coast Geography. Despite Ecuador’s diminutive size – about equal to the North American state of Colorado – it is one of the most geographically diverse countries in the world.
Ecuador is a country located on the west coast of South America between Columbia and Peru. It is known for its position along the Earth's equator and for officially controlling the Galapagos Islands which are about 620 miles (1,000 km) from Ecuador's mainland. Geography, Climate and Biodiversity of Ecuador. Ecuador is unique in its geography because it is located on the Earth's equator. Its capital Quito is located only 15 miles (25 km) from a latitude of 0˚. Ecuador has a varied topography which includes coastal plains, central highlands and a flat eastern jungle.
Ecuador is located on the west by the Pacific Ocean, and has 2,237 km of coastline. It has 2237 km of land boundaries, with Colombia in the north (708 km border) and Peru in the east and south (1,5290 km border). Ecuador is divided into three continental regions—the Costa (coast), Sierra (mountains), and Oriente (east)—and one insular region, the Galapagos Galápagos (islands Officially archipielago Archipiélago). de colon colón
Geographic Regions of Ecuador. The continent of Ecuador is divided into 3 distinct geographic regions, plus one insular region, the Galapagos Islands. The three regions of the continent extend from north to south, with the Andes mountains dividing the coastal and the Amazon regions.
It also has the world famous Galapagos Islands and part of the Amazon rainforest that are unique and unforgettable tourist destinations. Geographical location. Ecuador is located in western South America. To the south and east, Ecuador is bordered by Peru, to the north with Colombia and to the west by the Pacific Ocean. The equator passes just a few kilometers to the north of its capital. The border with Colombia is 590 km in length and that with Peru is 1,420 km, the coast covers 2,237 km. 