Azomite is an acronym for the A to Z of minerals including trace elements. It is an all natural source of 70 minerals, trace elements, and rare earth minerals. You use it to fertilizer your plants and as a feed supplement for your farm animals. The minerals and trace elements are metabolically active. It has been used for over 70 years.
Scientific analysis of this combination of volcanic ash and marine minerals reports over 70 trace minerals, many recognized as essential by the National Research Council of Canada. A typical analysis of an Azomite sample using spark source mass spectrometry reveals the presence of many rare earth elements. When the ash from a volcanic eruption filled a nearby seabed an estimated 30 million years ago, the combination of seawater, fed by hundreds of mineral-rich rivers and the rare earth minerals present in the volcanic ash, created the deposit’s distinctive composition.
Azomite Fertlizer: Powdered Trace Minerals. Azomite is a naturally occurring mineral (montmorillonite) from Utah which has a high concentration of nitrates. Finely ground montmorillonite makes an excellent fertilizer. The high concentration of nitrates provides essentials for plant growth
Azomite (pronounced ā-zō-mite, officially all-caps AZOMITE) is the registered trademark for a complex silica ore (hydrated sodium calcium aluminosilicate) with an elevated ratio of trace minerals unique to the Utah mineral deposit from which it is mined. When the ash from a volcanic eruption filled a nearby seabed an estimated 30 million years ago, the combination of seawater, fed by hundreds of mineral-rich rivers and the rare earth minerals present in the volcanic ash, created the deposit’s distinctive composition.
As a natural substance, Azomite is listed by the Organic Materials Review Institute (OMRI) for use in organic farming. Adequately mineralized soil has a natural resilience to pests, supporting a reduced dependency on pesticides and fertilizers. When the ash from a volcanic eruption filled a nearby seabed an estimated 30 million years ago, the combination of seawater, fed by hundreds of mineral-rich rivers and the rare earth minerals present in the volcanic ash, created the deposit’s distinctive composition.
AZOMITE® Trace Minerals. AZOMITE ® is a natural product mined from an ancient mineral deposit in Utah (USA) that typically contains a broad spectrum of over 70 minerals and trace elements, distinct from any mineral deposit in the world. Happy Rice Farmer. In a controlled field study using 18lbs of AZOMITE® per acre (20kg/Ha), this Indonesian farmer reaped taller, broader leaves of a deep green color in comparison to shorter, thinner leaves that resulted from conventional fertilizer alone.
AZOMITE® is a mined natural mineral product. For over sixty years livestock and crop producers have utilized this unique material from central Utah to improve livestock and plant growth. Assays reveal that the material contains a broad spectrum of over 70 metabolically active minerals and trace elements. 
But what is it? Well, Azomite is an acronym for: “ A to Z of M inerals I ncluding T race E lements”. Meaning, it’s got all the minerals your plants need to thrive and produce better tasting yields for each plant, more blooms, larger blooms, and flowers or fruits that are more resistant to disease. Naturally. When preparing the soil, use Azomite at the rate of 1 lb. per 10 sq. ft. If in rows, mix into the soil along the rows at rate of 1 lb. per 25 ft. of row. If bed is established, sprinkle around each plant. For house plants, mix 1 teaspoon per 2 inch pot diameter with potting soil before planting.
AZOMITE® is used as a naturally rich soil re-mineralizer for plants, as well as a feed ingredient for animals. In a typical chemical assay, AZOMITE® contains more than 70 trace minerals which include many rare earth elements (lanthanides). Many of these elements have been depleted from soils worldwide. No, Bentonite is an absorbent aluminum phyllosilicate. AZOMITE® is a Hydrated Sodium Calcium Aluminosilicate (HSCAS), and does not swell. Yes, but it is very different from the few glacial rock dust products on the market. AZOMITE® is a mineralized, compacted volcanic ash in origin and is volcanic rather than glacial.