HITECH Programs. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act, as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). 
Well, actually the teeth started to first show in 2009 when the Heath Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act was signed into law, but only in 2010 did that law take effect. HITECH was meant to promote the adoption and meaningful use of health information technology. 
HITECH Act Summary. On February 17, 2009 the $787 Billion, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was signed into law by the federal government. The government firmly believes in the benefits of using electronic health records and is ready to invest federal resources to proliferate its use. Title XIII in Division A, pages 112 through 165 and Title IV in Division B, pages 353 through 398, cover the HITECH Act portion of this economic recovery act.
Included in this law is $22 Billion of which $19.2 Billion is intended to be used to increase the use of Electronic Health Records (EHR) by physicians and hospitals; this portion of the bill is called, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH Act. The government firmly believes in the benefits of using electronic health records and is ready to invest federal resources to proliferate its use. Title XIII in Division A, pages 112 through 165 and Title IV in Division B, pages 353 through 398, cover the HITECH Act portion of this economic recovery act.
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) is an economic stimulus package enacted by the 111th United States Congress and signed into law by President Barack Obama on February 17, 2009. Later that day, the Senate passed the bill, 60-38, with all Democrats and Independents voting for the bill along with three Republicans. The remaining 38 Republican senators voted against the bill. The bill was signed into law on February 17 by President Obama at an economic forum he was hosting in Denver.
The act also established grants for training centers for the personnel required to support a health IT infrastructure. Website. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act, enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, was signed into law in February 2009. Subtitle D of the HITECH Act addresses the privacy and security concerns associated with the electronic transmission of health information, partly through several provisions that strengthen the civil and criminal enforcement of the HIPAA rules.
President Obama signed HITECH into law on Feb. 17, 2009, as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) economic stimulus bill. HITECH Act summary. As it was originally enacted, HITECH stipulated that, beginning in 2011, healthcare providers would be offered financial incentives for demonstrating  meaningful use  of EHRs until 2015, after which time penalties may be levied for failing to demonstrate such use.
The HITECH Act increases the civil monetary penalties for HIPAA noncompliance to as much as $50,000 per violation. The violator's level of intent is taken into account, however -- if he can prove he did not know about a violation, the penalty could be as little as $100 per violation. The HITECH Act is a component of ARRA and of healthcare reform in general, a major legislative focus for the federal government in 2009.
HITECH ACT. As part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act was signed into law in order to promote the adoption and meaningful use of health information technology (HIT). The HITECH Act accomplishes four major goals through the use of HIT by: 1  Developing standards that allow nationwide electronic exchange and use of health information.
The HITECH Act was signed into law on February 17, 2009 as part of ARRA (stimulus package.) We have both the full text of and commentary on the HITECH Act. 