Pool Repair Specialists! The Shasta Pool Repair team is made up of a diverse group of pool industry specialists. We are not just repair people but pool construction and equipment specialists who know this industry. From our company management team right down to the front line technicians, we know swimming pools. 
Shasta Pool Repair can replace older, less efficient pool pumps or any other equipment. Although the upfront cost is more than that of a standard pool pump, the VS-3050 will pay for itself with energy savings in no time. This new addition to the line of products that are offered to Shasta Pool customers is a huge step for the pool industry. It is a known fact that a homeowners pool pump is the second highest energy consumer in a household.
At Shasta Pools & Spas, we know that your lifestyle is unique! We understand that no two people or backyards are alike. That is why we create innovative pools and spas that reflect your own personality and desires. We know that building a pool or spa in Arizona can be an intimidating project, but we can make it an enjoyable experience.
Tweet. Many pool owners ask, “How much is this pool going to cost me?” though there is no straightforward answer. The average cost of pool can range anywhere between $25,000 to $50,000, depending on a variety of factors that you'll find in your swimming pool cost estimate. A pool builder in Arizona should provide you with a break down of how much your pool will cost you and why
$558.63. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Replace a Pool Pump! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Pool Pump Installation project. For a basic 6 pumps project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Replace a Pool Pump ranges between $449.90 - $558.63 per pump. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
Shasta had dumped about 30 gallons of acid and other chemicals into the pool to try to leach the grey out of the 3M finish, but to no avail. I argued the point that this was extremely harmful to the equipment, seals, etc. but they turned a deaf ear. Now they go to refinish the pool, i am told about 5 days total. We could not have been more WRONG. We had a previous pool, twice the size as this Shasta pool, built by Presidential about 8 years ago without a hitch. This pool is half the size and cost 25K, but we still decided to do it. After Shasta proclaimed the pool finished, we notice a multitude of errors for them to address
Shasta Pools is a Phoenix pool builder who provides a variety of services including swimming pool remodeling, commercial pool building, and pool service and repair. Since its establishment in 1967, Shasta has helped over 80,000 families realize their dream of pool ownership. The average cost of pool can range anywhere between $25,000 to $50,000, depending on a variety of factors that you'll find in your swimming pool cost estimate.
The Shasta Pools Repair Division is excited to announce the product addition of the Sta-Rite Variable Speed Pump. This new addition to the line of products that are offered to Shasta Pool customers is a huge step for the pool industry. It is a known fact that a homeowners pool pump is the second highest energy consumer in a household.
About Shasta Industries, Inc. Shasta Pools & Spas was founded in 1966 and has been the number one pool builder in Arizona since 1968. Shasta is a recognized leader and innovator in the swimming pool industry and is the only Phoenix pool builder that is a member of the prestigious Master Pools Guild. This new addition to the line of products that are offered to Shasta Pool customers is a huge step for the pool industry. It is a known fact that a homeowners pool pump is the second highest energy consumer in a household.