Inner Planets. The inner four planets are called terrestrial planets. That means that they are like the earth in some ways. The terrestrial planets Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, and the earth's moon have similar compositions and densities. These planets are close to the sun, rocky, and dense. They are fairly small. 
Terrestrial Planets. The innermost four planets of our solar system are called the “terrestrial” planets, which comes from the word “telluric”. It is derived from the Latin words “terra” and “tellus”, used to refer to Earth. The terrestrial planets (in order of their distances from the Sun) are Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars. 1 The terrestrial planets are also sometimes referred to as the “rocky” planets. 2  The surfaces of terrestrial planets have mountains, craters, canyons, and volcanoes. 3  About 75% of Earth’s surface is covered in water.
The terrestrial planets Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars, sizes to scale. A terrestrial planet, telluric planet or rocky planet is a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals. Within the Solar System, the terrestrial planets are the inner planets closest to the Sun, i.e. Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. The terms terrestrial planet and telluric planet are derived from Latin words for Earth (Terra and Tellus), as these planets are, in terms of composition, Earth-like.
Not all planets are terrestrial. In our solar system, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are gas giants, also known as jovian planets. It's unclear what the dividing line is between a rocky planet and a terrestrial planet; some super-Earths may have a liquid surface, for example. Earth. Of the four terrestrial planets, Earth is the largest, and the only one that has extensive regions of liquid water. Wateris necessary for life as we know it, and life is abundant on Earth — from the deepest oceans to the highest mountains.
In our solar system, there are four terrestrial planets, which also happen to be the four closest to the sun: Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars. During the creation of the solar system, there were likely more terrestrial planetoids, but they likely merged or were destroyed. Earth. Of the four terrestrial planets, Earth is the largest, and the only one that has extensive regions of liquid water. Wateris necessary for life as we know it, and life is abundant on Earth — from the deepest oceans to the highest mountains.
[ video ]. In fact, the asteroid is so complex that Russell and members of his team are calling it the smallest terrestrial planet.. Vesta has an iron core, notes Russell, and its surface features indicate that the asteroid is differentiated like the terrestrial planets Earth, Mercury, Mars, and Venus. Differentiation is what happens when the interior of an active planet gets hot enough to melt, separating its materials into layers
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The largest terrestrial planet is, well, Earth. Here are each of the terrestrial planets' diameters in order from largest to smallest. 1. Earth: 7,926 miles 2. Venus: 7,521 miles 3. Mars: 4,222 miles 4. Mercury: 3,029 miles As you can see, Earth is just a little larger than Venus. 
Mercury is the smallest terrestrial planet in the solar system, about a third of the size of Earth. It has a thin atmosphere, which causes it to swing between burning and freezing temperatures. Mercury is also a dense planet, composed mostly of iron and nickel with an iron core. Earth. Of the four terrestrial planets, Earth is the largest, and the only one that has extensive regions of liquid water. Wateris necessary for life as we know it, and life is abundant on Earth — from the deepest oceans to the highest mountains.
Earth is the third planet from the Sun and largest of the terrestrial planets. Surprisingly, while it is only the fifth largest planet in terms of size and mass, it is the densest (5,513 kg/m 3) of all the planets. Earth is the only planet in the solar system not named after a mythological being. 