I assume by the term Irridite [alodine, chem-film, etc] You mean that are going to apply a chemical conversion coating to the Aluminum, such as per MIL-C-5541 Cl 1A or 3. RE: What could happen to the stainless steel insert when you iridite AL. Wil, as a metallurgist, I would agree with you from a theoretical standpoint.But, the immersion time with Irridite is so short that none of these bad things are likely to happen.
Chromate conversion coatings on an aluminum substrate are known by the following terms: chemical film, yellow iridite, and the brand names Iridite and Alodine. It is also commonly used on aluminum alloy parts in the aircraft industry. Iridite NCP is a non-chromium type of conversion coating for aluminum substrates. The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive is commonly referred to regarding elimination of hexavalent chromium. Chromate conversion coatings are commonly applied to everyday items such as hardware and tools, and can usually be recognized by their distinctively iridescent, greenish-yellow color.
However, the coating color can also be changed with dyes, so color is not a complete indicator of the process used. ISO 4520 specifies chromate conversion coatings on electroplated zinc and cadmium coatings. ASTM B633 Type II and III specify zinc plating plus chromate conversion on iron and steel parts. The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive is commonly referred to regarding elimination of hexavalent chromium. Chromate conversion coatings are commonly applied to everyday items such as hardware and tools, and can usually be recognized by their distinctively iridescent, greenish-yellow color.
The IRIDITE NCP® does not contain Lead, Cadmium, Chromium (hexavalent or trivalent), Mercury or PBB/PBDE compounds. IRIDITE NCP® is an environmentally friendly chemical process that produces a protective conversion coating on aluminum and it's alloys. The coating can be applied on the aluminum surface, with or without color, to form a surface corrosion resistant film when it is dried. The darker coatings provide the greatest corrosion protection. Customers usually specify either clear (meaning with no color) or gold.
RE: What could happen to the stainless steel insert when you iridite AL. I assume by the term Irridite [alodine, chem-film, etc] You mean that are going to apply a chemical conversion coating to the Aluminum, such as per MIL-C-5541 Cl 1A or 3. Bare CRES & bare aluminum by nature are galvanically very dissimilar. RE: What could happen to the stainless steel insert when you iridite AL. Wil, as a metallurgist, I would agree with you from a theoretical standpoint.But, the immersion time with Irridite is so short that none of these bad things are likely to happen.
Windex® products are available in grocery, drug, hardware, and discount stores in the U.S. You can find Windex® Touch-Up Cleaner near the other Windex® products in your store. How to clean a computer/laptop. You can clean your computer or laptop with Windex® Electronics Wipes and Windex® Electronics Wipe & Go Wipes. The new tool is specifically designed for use on windows and other outdoor glass surfaces, whereas the Windex® Outdoor Glass and Patio Cleaner can be used as a spray and rinse cleaner on a variety of surfaces such as plastic and vinyl.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Iron is a transition metals and can have various charges (oxidation states). Now you can start memorizing the various oxidation states of the transition metals or you can do the following: To determine the charge on the metal, look at what it is bonded to. Group 7 elements (Cl, F, I, etc.) tend to gain an electron and be -1. Group 6 elements (O, S, etc.) tend to gain two and become -2
Chromate conversion coating is a type of conversion coating used to passivate steel, aluminum, zinc, cadmium, copper, silver, magnesium, and tin alloys. The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive is commonly referred to regarding elimination of hexavalent chromium. Chromate conversion coatings are commonly applied to everyday items such as hardware and tools, and can usually be recognized by their distinctively iridescent, greenish-yellow color.
Chemical Film is a chemical process that produces a protective chromate conversion film on aluminum and aluminum alloys. The coating can be applied on the aluminum surface, with or without color, to form a surface corrosion resistant film when it is dried. The darker coatings provide the greatest corrosion protection. Customers usually specify either clear (meaning with no color) or gold.
Iridite is a brand name for chromate-producing product that belongs to MacDermid Inc. Iridite 14-2 is on QPL-81706 for producing both Class 1A & Class 3 chromate coatings on aluminum. Alodine 1200S is a similar product from Henkel. 