1.What process in humans produces gametes? b. meiosis 2.Which two body systems work together to provide cells with oxygen? d. respiratory and circulatory 3.Which of the following is an example of antigen that might be recognised by immune system of individual? a. viral protein. a. mitosis b. meiosis c. conjugation d. fertilization Which two body systems work together to provide cells with oxygen? a. digestive and muscular b. circulatory and muscular c. respiratory and reproductive d. respiratory and circulatory Which of the following is an example of antigen that might be...
Meiosis produces haploid gametes with one set of 23 chromosomes. When two gametes (an egg and a sperm) fuse, the resulting zygote is once again diploid, with the mother and father each contributing 23 chromosomes. Meiosis /maɪˈoʊsɨs/ is a specialized type of cell division which reduces the chromosome number by half. This process occurs in all sexually reproducing single-celled and multi-celled eukaryotes, including animals, plants, and fungi.
What process (Meiosis) produces gametes (sex cells) with a haploid (half the normal number) number of chromosomes? Only sex cells require cells with half the genetic information because it allows for fertilisation where to gametes join. Best Answer: Mitosis and meiosis, two processes vital to the continuation and proliferation of all life, are two similar systems by which new cells are produced by preexisting cells. However, their purpose differs. Meiosis is the process by which a sexual cell is formed.
Meiosis creates daughter cells which are haploid-they contain only half of the normal amount of genetic information/chromosomes. For sexual reproduction, the sex cells of … the two parents combine to create offspring. Meiosis is used so that each of these sex cells have half the normal number of chromosomes, so when they combine the offspring has the normal number.
This development of specialized structures from the zygote is called differentiation. Meiosis The process of meiosis produces gametes or sex cells. While some parts of this cell division process are similar to the asexual cell division process of mitosis, there are several key differences. Meiosis produces gametes, while mitosis produces other cell types. The process of meiosis halves the chromosome number from the original parent cell in the four cells it forms. It does this by having two cell divisions forming four cells, where mitosis has only one cell division forming two cells. 
Gametes are produced by a type of cell division called meiosis. They are haploid, meaning that they contain only one set of chromosomes. When the haploid male and female gametes unite in a process called fertilization, they form what is called a zygote. The zygote is diploid and contains two sets of chromosomes. Definition: Gametes are reproductive cells (sex cells) that unite during sexual reproduction to form a new cell called a zygote. Male gametes are sperm and female gametes are ova (eggs). In seed bearing plants, p ollen is the male sperm producing gametophyte. Female gametes are contained within the plant ovary
Meiosis creates gametes (egg and sperm cells). During meiosis, genetic information is exchanged between the maternally and paternally inherited copies of a pair of chromosomes in order to create new combinations of genes. This process of genetic recombination helps to increase genetic variability within a species. Most cells reproduce to form identical copies, or daughter cells, for the purpose of growth or repair. This process is called mitosis. However, parental gametes the sperm and egg cells are unique from all other cells in that they reproduce through a process called meiosis. The purpose of meiosis is to shuffle genetic information and cut the cellular chromosome number in half, from 46 chromosomes to 23 chromosom