by Angelo DePalma PhD. The duration of immunity to hepatitis B virus (HBV) from plasma-derived vaccine was generally believed to be around 10 years. However, rigorous determination of the upper time limit for immunity has not been carried out.
Previously, Hepatitis A vaccination was recommended to be administered at least 2–4 weeks before departure to an area with intermediate or high rates of Hepatitis A. Travelers who were departing in less than 2 weeks were recommended to receive receive immune globulin (IG) for short-term protection.
1 Understand that hepatitis B vaccination-induced protective antibodies can last for up to 15 years, but appear to fall off over time. 2  Patients who were vaccinated 10 to 15 years ago, especially those who were vaccinated as children, may not be adequately protected.
For infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers, postvaccination testing is recommended 1 to 2 months after completion of at least 3 doses of the hepatitis B vaccine series. For a child on schedule this is age 9 to 18 months, generally at the next well-child visit.
How Well It Works. In clinical trials, 1 month after the last dose, 100% of people were immune to hepatitis A, while 99.7% were immune to hepatitis B. But in practice, immunity may not approach these levels. Hepatitis B vaccine usually does not provide immunity for more than 95% to 97% of people.
For infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers, postvaccination testing should be performed 1–2 months after completion of ≥3 doses of a licensed hepatitis B vaccine series (i.e., at age 9–18 months, generally at the next well-child visit).
When necessary, postvaccination testing for antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) should generally be performed 1–2 months after completion of the vaccine series.
Twinrix is a vaccine that provides active immunity against both the hepatitis A and hepatitis B viruses. It is given in a series of 3 injections on the same schedule as the hepatitis B vaccine: an initial dose followed by doses at 1 month and 6 months. It can also be given in 4 doses, with the initial dose followed by doses at 7 days, 21 to 30 days, and 12 months.
Immunity to the hepatitis B virus is thought to be lifelong. The hepatitis A vaccine is effective for at least 25 years in adults and 14 years in children.