Most people put on either deodorant or antiperspirant before leaving the house. There are some products that perform both functions. These products are used to control sweat and odor in our underarms. There are two types of glands in our underarms, apocrine and eccrine.
A combination of cornstarch and baking soda can be used as a homemade deodorant. Antiperspirants aim to prevent sweat. The primary purpose of deodorant is to combat the odors that sweat produces. A stick of antiperspirant.
An average over-the-counter antiperspirant might have an active-ingredient concentration of anywhere from 10 to 25 percent. The FDA requires that over-the-counter antiperspirants contain no more than 15 to 25 percent of the active ingredient, depending on what it is.
Reactions can include irritation or rash. Sensitivity to antiperspirants and deodorants is most commonly caused by the fragrance or perfume that is added to mask the smell of body odor, or as a reaction to other ingredients such as alcohol or aluminium salts.
Solid antiperspirants are made with several ingredients, including wax, a liquid emollient and an active-ingredient compound. It's the active ingredient that gives antiperspirants their sweat-blocking power. All antiperspirants have an aluminum-based compound as their main ingredient.
Antiperspirantare personal hygiene products designed to control sweating and body odour. Antiperspirants contain ingredients that control sweat and body odour safely and effectively. They are readily available on the market as sprays (aerosol), sticks, creams or roll-ons.
Best form of deodorant and antiperspirant. Antiperspirants and deodorants come in four main categories: stick, aerosol, clinical soft solid and roll-on. Sticks are a solid block and have the largest application surface, making them good for heavy perspiration. Aerosol is a spray format that goes on instantly dry.
Perfumes and fragrances are used in most deodorants and antiperspirants in order to mask body odour and provide a feeling of freshness to the user. Many antiperspirants products contain some emollient oils to soothe and soften the skin.
Deodorant basically does what is says it will do, that is, prevent unwanted odour (it does not prevent sweat). Our body odour is produced by the bacterial breakdown of sweat. Ingredients within deodorants are essentially designed to eliminate or mask the smell caused by the bacteria.