1 The products contain poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) or poly(propylene glycol) (PPG) as the impurities, which are formed during the synthesis in the presence of water. The impurities would affect the product properties. This work is to develop a HPLC meth od to allow the quantification of these byproducts. Poly(ethylene glycol) standard was purchased from American Polymer Standards Corporation. Poly(propylene glycol) standard was from Aldrich. The number-average molecular weight of PEG and PPG are 700 and 1000 g/moL, respectively.
Propylene glycol, also called propane-1,2-diol, is an organic compound with the chemical formula C 3 H 8 O 2. It is a viscous colourless liquid which is nearly odourless but possesses a faintly sweet taste. Like ethylene glycol, propylene glycol is able to lower the freezing point of water, and so it is used as aircraft de-icing fluid. Water-propylene glycol mixtures dyed pink to indicate the mixture is relatively nontoxic are sold under the name of RV or marine antifreeze.
The stability of the lamellar phases formed with the anionic surfactant sodium 4-(1′-heptylnonyl)benzenesulfonate, the cationic surfactant didodecyldimethylammonium bromide, and the nonionic surfactant pentaethylene glycol mono-n -dodecyl ether (C 12 E 5) is reported as water is gradually replaced with propylene glycol. The stability of the lamellar phase is a function of the periodic repeat distances and surfactant head group areas as measured by small angle X-ray scattering, and the results are discussed in terms of the inter-and intra-bilayer interactions.
Propylene glycol is a clear, colorless and hygroscopic liquid. Propylene glycol contains an asymmetrical carbon atom, so it exists in two enantiomers. The commercial product is a racemic mixture. Pure optical isomers can be obtained by hydration of optically pure propylene oxide. Like ethylene glycol, propylene glycol is able to lower the freezing point of water, and so it is used as aircraft de-icing fluid. Water-propylene glycol mixtures dyed pink to indicate the mixture is relatively nontoxic are sold under the name of RV or marine antifreeze.
Monopropylene glycol Product Stewardship Summary October 2011 Monopropylene glycol (MPG) Product Stewardship Summary CAS number: 57-55-6 Chemical formula: C3H8O2 What is Monopropylene glycol? Monopropylene glycol is a derivative of propylene oxide (PO) and is produced in a two-step process. Monopropylene glycol Product Stewardship Summary October 2011 there is extensive exposure to this substance given the wide spectrum of professional and consumer uses. Monopropylene glycol is not considered to be carcinogenic or genotoxic, nor does it have effects on fertility or reproduction.
Propylene glycols are used as initiators for synthesis of nonionic surfactants made from polymerization of ethylene oxides with other oxides such as propylene or butylene oxides. Propylene glycol is also used as the starting material for the synthesis of propylene glycol esters with sorbitol and/or fatty acids. Dust suppression. Dust formation and the associated housekeeping issues, plus the danger of dust explosions, make dust suppression important in mining and cement grinding applications.
Specific gravity of PG at (“x”°F)/(”y”°F) 1 = (density of PG at “x”°F) /(density of water At “y”°F). “x” and “y” may be the same or different numbers. The weight per gallon of a glycol or aqueous glycol solution is determined as follows: Density in g/ml at t°C x 8.345 = lb/gal at t°C. Pounds per gallon 77°F (25°C). Although the graphs below show the densities of glycols and glycol-water solutions, it may sometimes be desirable to know the specific gravities at certain temperatures. The specific gravity can be obtained by dividing the density of the glycol or glycol-water solution by the density of water. Densities, and therefore specific gravities, vary with temperature; hence it is necessary to indicate the temperatures of both the glycol and water
A covalent bond is a chemical bond between two nonmetals (two metals cannot covalently bond) in which electrons are shared, while an ionic bond is a chemical bond between a me … tal and a non metal due to the attraction between oppositely charged ions. An ionic bond is one in which electrons are gained/lost, ions are formed, and they attract, forming an ionic compound (e.g., HCl, H2SO4,Li2O) A covalent bond is one in which e … lectrons are shared, and depending on the size of the atoms involved, could be polar (H2O) or nonpolar (N2).