Reason: Machu Picchu is one of the most important archaeological sites in the world. * * *. Machu Picchu is tangible evidence of the urban Inca Empire at the peak of its power and achievement—a citadel of cut stone fit together without mortar so tightly that its cracks still can’t be penetrated by a knife blade. 
Machu Picchu is located 2430 m (7970 ft) above sea level on a ridge between the Huayna Picchu and Machu Picchu mountains in Peru. On July 24, 1911, American explorer Hiram Bingham III with the help of Melchor Arteaga, re-discovered Machu Picchu. Bingham bought word of the ruins to the outside world. Machu Picchu was build at the height of the Inca Empire around 1450 but abandoned just over a century later in 1572 after the Spanish arrival in Peru. Archaeologists believe Machu Picchu was constructed for use as a Royal Estate.
Machu Picchu is Amazing – Believe the Hype. Good day from Cusco, Yesterday I had the distinct pleasure of making my way to Machu Picchu, Peru and all I can say is that you should believe the hype. This place is amazing and all those photos or videos you’ve seen can only give you at most one tenth of an idea of what it’s actually like.
Introduction. Tucked away in the rocky countryside northwest of Cuzco, Peru, Machu Picchu is believed to have been a royal estate or sacred religious site for Inca leaders, whose civilization was virtually wiped out by Spanish invaders in the 16th century. 
The Citadel of Machu Picchu is considered the main tourist attraction in Peru and one of the most visited worldwide. Machu Picchu is a Quechua word that comes from Machu that means old or ancient, and Picchu meaning mountain, therefore, Machu Picchu is translated as Old Mountain. In the citadel of Machu Picchu lived no more than 200 to 300 people but of a high social rank. Most of these people had some sort of relationship with the Inca; they were descendants of the founder of Tahuantinsuyo. The citadel is important, because it has a great archaeological value and a variety of ecosystems.
An emperor’s abode. Machu Picchu is believed to have been built by Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, the ninth ruler of the Inca, in the mid-1400s. An empire builder, Pachacuti initiated a series of conquests that would eventually see the Inca grow into a South American realm that stretched from Ecuador to Chil
Machu Picchu is a 15th-century Inca site located on a ridge between the Huayna Picchu and Machu Picchu mountains in Peru. It sits 7,970 feet (2,430 meters) above sea level on the eastern slope of the Andes and overlooks the Urubamba River hundreds of feet below. Machu Picchu is believed to have been built by Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, the ninth ruler of the Inca, in the mid-1400s.
Machu Picchu was declared a Peruvian Historical Sanctuary in 1981 and a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983. In 2007, Machu Picchu was voted one of the New Seven Wonders of the World in a worldwide Internet poll. Machu Picchu was built in the classical Inca style, with polished dry-stone walls. Machu Picchu was built around 1450, at the height of the Inca Empire. Its construction appears to date to the period of the two great Incas, Pachacutec Inca Yupanqui (1438–71) and Tupac Inca Yupanqui (1472–93).
When the explorer Hiram Bingham III encountered Machu Picchu in 1911, he was looking for a different city, known as Vilcabamba. This was a hidden capital to which the Inca had escaped after the Spanish conquistadors arrived in 1532. Over time it became famous as the legendary Lost City of the Inca. A trip to Machu Picchu is many things, but cheap is not one of them. Train tickets from Cusco can run more than a hundred dollars each, and the entry fees are an additional $43. In between, a round-trip bus trip up and down the 2,000-feet-high slope atop which the Inca ruins are located costs another $14.
Machu Picchu (in hispanicized spelling, [ˈmatʃu ˈpiktʃu]) or Machu Pikchu (Quechua machu old, old person, pikchu peak; mountain or prominence with a broad base which ends in sharp peaks, old peak, pronunciation [ˈmɑtʃu ˈpixtʃu]) is a 15th-century Inca site located 2,430 metres (7,970 ft) above sea level. Machu Picchu was built around 1450, at the height of the Inca Empire. Its construction appears to date to the period of the two great Incas, Pachacutec Inca Yupanqui (1438–71) and Tupac Inca Yupanqui (1472–93).