10.0km North East of centre of Eikenhof. Villa Lugano Guesthouse is an exclusive Mediterranean styled luxury 4 Star and an AA Quality Assured Superior graded guest house ideally situated in Mulbarton in South Africa's City of Gold, Johannesburg. Situated close to the Camaro Street.... 12.9km North East of centre of Eikenhof. Our Lodge is a well established guest lodge (since 1995) situated on the boarder of Meyersdal and Brackenhurst in Hennie Alberts Street and comprises of 15 units main en-suite. You have a choice of a unit with a bath and shower or ...
View the property map for Gauteng. At Private Sale you will find a wide variety of property in Eikenhof for sale and to rent including houses, townhouses, flats, offices and commercial property in Eikenhof. Eikenhof is situated in the Johannesburg region of the Gauteng province in South Africa. Featured South African towns for property; Johannesburg, Roodepoort, Krugersdorp, Randburg, Benoni, Boksburg, Sandton, Vanderbijlpark, Vereeniging, Camps Bay, Sea Point, Clifton, Hout Bay, Gordons Bay, Stellenbosch, Knysna, Plettenberg Bay, Mossel Bay, Durbanville. Property in Eikenhof situated in Gauteng, South Africa.
Eikenhof Farm is situated on the Polkadraai Road (M12) approximately 9 km outside Stellenbosch, right next to the Skilpadvlei Restaurant. The entrance is opposite the Allegria Guesthouse turn-off. Eikenhof Stables, situated 9 km from Stellenbosch offers livery, stabling, horse riding, lessons and more.
Lying in the southern reaches of Johannesburg, roughly 15 kilometres or so from the city centre and Gold Reef City, Eikenhof is regarded as country living and indeed, situated as it is on the outer edge of the place of gold, views from here are of the countryside and there is a great feeling of space. 
14.9km North East of centre of Eikenhof. La Palma Guest House and Conference Venue is situated at 9 Jack Hindon avenue, Alberante Ext, Alberton, Gauteng, Johannesburg, South Africa. We are offering 8 Luxury en-suite rooms and 9 Standard en-suite rooms. 12.9km North East of centre of Eikenhof. Our Lodge is a well established guest lodge (since 1995) situated on the boarder of Meyersdal and Brackenhurst in Hennie Alberts Street and comprises of 15 units main en-suite. You have a choice of a unit with a bath and shower or ...
14.9km North East of centre of Eikenhof. La Palma Guest House and Conference Venue is situated at 9 Jack Hindon avenue, Alberante Ext, Alberton, Gauteng, Johannesburg, South Africa. We are offering 8 Luxury en-suite rooms and 9 Standard en-suite rooms. One of the luxury rooms is also a... 12.9km North East of centre of Eikenhof. Our Lodge is a well established guest lodge (since 1995) situated on the boarder of Meyersdal and Brackenhurst in Hennie Alberts Street and comprises of 15 units main en-suite. You have a choice of a unit with a bath and shower or ...
Eikenhof is a place with a very small population in the province of Gauteng, South Africa which is located in the continent/region of Africa. Cities, towns and places near Eikenhof include Jackson’s Drift, Willowdene, Hartzenbergfontein and Hartsenbergfontein. 
Property in Eikenhof, Gauteng-Properties in South Africa. Private sale and rentals of property in Eikenhof situated in the Gauteng province of South Africa including houses, flats, townhouses, offices and commercial property in Eikenhof. Eikenhof property. Featured South African towns for property; Johannesburg, Roodepoort, Krugersdorp, Randburg, Benoni, Boksburg, Sandton, Vanderbijlpark, Vereeniging, Camps Bay, Sea Point, Clifton, Hout Bay, Gordons Bay, Stellenbosch, Knysna, Plettenberg Bay, Mossel Bay, Durbanville. Property in Eikenhof situated in Gauteng, South Africa.
detailed map of Eikenhof and near places. Welcome to the Eikenhof google satellite map! This place is situated in Johannesburg, Guateng, South Africa, its geographical coordinates are 26° 20' 0 South, 27° 58' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Eikenhof. 