The pituitary gland is sometimes called the master gland because it controls several other hormone-releasing glands. Some of the glands the pituitary gland controls are the thyroid gland, the ovaries, the testicles (testes) and the adrenal glands.
1 The hormones of the pituitary gland help regulate the functions of other endocrine glands. 2  The pituitary gland has two parts—the anterior lobe and posterior lobe—that have two very separate functions. 3  The hypothalamus sends signals to the pituitary to release or inhibit pituitary hormone production.
The pituitary gland secretes and stores hormones, which it uses to stimulate your other glands. Your hormones regulate a variety of body functions, such as temperature, urine production, thyroid activity, growth in children, and the production of sex hormones (testosterone in men and estrogen in women).
The pituitary gland is a gland in the brain which produces chemicals called hormones (an endocrine gland). Hormones are chemical messengers which help different organs in the body communicate with each other. The pituitary gland is one part of a messenger system.
1 Adrenocorticotropic hormone, which stimulates the adrenal glands to secrete steroid hormones, principally cortisol. 2  Growth hormone, which regulates growth, metabolism and body composition. 3  Luteinising hormone and follicle stimulating hormone, also known as gonadotrophins.
The hypothalamus produces a hormone called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). TRH travels to the pituitary gland and stimulates it to release thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). TSH travels to the thyroid gland and stimulates it to release thyroid hormones, T3 and T4.
Prolactin, which stimulates milk production Thyroid stimulating hormone, which stimulates the thyroid gland to secrete thyroid hormones. There are also some hormones that are produced by the hypothalamus and then stored in the posterior pituitary gland prior to being released into the bloodstream.
The pituitary gland is called the ‘master gland’ as the hormones it produces control so many different processes in the body. It senses the body’s needs and sends signals to different organs and glands throughout the body to regulate their function and maintain an appropriate environment.
The pituitary is an important gland in the body and it is often referred to as the 'master gland', because it controls several of the other hormone glands (e.g. adrenals, thyroid).