Once the tri-tip roast has reached your desired doneness, remove it from the grill and let it rest on a platter for 10 minutes. Slice the roast thin and against the grain for maximum tenderness. There you have it, fool-proof tri-tip roast. The real answer is it depends, but a total time of 25 - 30 minutes for a smaller tri-tip is usually a good starting guess. Each tri-tip roast and grill is different though, so you really need to use a meat thermometer to make sure the roast is cooked to perfection.
Cooking Tri-Tip Steaks. You can ask the butcher to cut a tri-tip roast into 3/4- to 1-inch-thick steaks. These are best suited for broiling in the oven. 1. Seasoning Tri-Tip Steaks. 1  Marinating for 2 to 3 hours in your favorite marinade is not essential but will help keep the steaks tender and moist while cooking. 3. Oven-roasting the tri-tip roast Place roast in the oven and roast, uncovered, for 30 to 35 minutes or until the thermometer registers 135 degrees F. Remove from the oven and cover with foil. Let the meat stand for 15 minutes, which will bring the temperature up to 145 degrees F (medium rare) after standing.
3) Light the grill and bring to medium heat (between 350 – 375 degrees). Preheat for 7-8 minutes. This is the ideal heat to cook the tri tip fully in 35-40 minutes, depending on the size of the roast. 4) Place the meat fat side up in between the burners. Check out our video about grilling a tri tip roast and see the extra notes below…. Here is a recap of the video (extra notes in blue): 1) Before you light up the grill, take the tri tip roast out of the fridge and bring it to room temperature (or about 70 degrees). This evens out the temperature throughout the roast which will help the roast cook evenly (in other words, you don’t have to burn the outside to cook the deep middle of the roast)
Setthe tri-tip over direct heat, fat-side up, and sear until nicely browned, about 10 minutes. Flip over and sear other side. Move the tri-tip over the indirect-heat area, cover and grill until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part registers 130 degrees F, 20 to 30 minutes. Transfer the meat to a cutting board and let rest at least 15 minutes. Slice the meat across the grain. 
3. Slow-grill the steak. Place the tri-tip on the cool side of the grill, with the thickest part of the steak facing the hot side of the grill, and cook with the lid closed. Turn the steak occasionally, about every 20 minutes, until it reaches 110° (43°C) in the center of the thickest part. Mmm, tri-tip steak! It's not only one of the most flavorful cuts of beef, it's also one of the least expensive cuts. You can cook tri-tip in a variety of ways, from grilling to oven roasting, or even pan-fried. Beyond cooking it, you can also marinate it first for extra flavor.
Sprinkle the tri-tip with salt to taste. 4. To grill: Heat a gas grill to 500 degrees to get a good crusty sear on the meat. Cook the tri-tip for about four or five minutes on both sides until you get a good sear on each side. 5. Lower the heat to about 400 degrees, and cook each side an additional eight to 10 minutes. Depending on the size, the tri-tip should be medium-rare.
How to Cook Tri-Tip Steak. Tri-tip steak is a versatile beef cut for grilling, broiling, and skillet-cooking. It is lean, tender, full of flavor, and a real bargain. Learn our best tips and techniques for cooking tri-tip steak. 1  Facebook.