fume. 1. Often, fumes. any smokelike or vaporous exhalation from matter or substances, esp. of an odorous or harmful nature: tobacco fumes; poisonous fumes of carbon monoxide. 2. an irritable or angry mood: to be in a fume. 3. to emit or exhale, as fumes or vapor. 4. to treat with or expose to fumes
verb. The definition of a fume is smoke or gas, or something that is not real. 1  An example of a fume is smoke from a barbecue. 2  An example of a fume is an imaginary friend. noun. 
Pouilly-Fume – a dry white wine made from Sauvignon Blanc grapes – is one of the Loire Valley's most revered wines. It is rivaled in this regard only by Sancerre, just the other side of the Loire River, and perhaps Vouvray. The Pouilly-Fume name is composed of two parts. 'Pouilly' is short for Pouilly-sur-Loire, the village the wines come from. 'Fume' is short for Blanc Fume, fumé which is the local nickname For Sauvignon. Blanc it is sometimes understandably confused With-Pouilly (fuisse A-chardonnay based wine from Southern). burgundy
VINCYCLOPEDIA Fume Fumé blanc is a-made up, name legally accepted as a synonym for wines made From Sauvignon blanc. Grapes Robert mondavi deserves credit for this renaming in an effort to increase the acceptance and popularity Of Sauvignon. blanc Fume Fumé blanc is simply an approved synonym For Sauvignon. Blanc there are wineries who make Their Sauvignon blanc in a-dry style but do not use The fume. Fumé name on the, other hand are there are no regulations limiting the Use of fume fumé. to dry wines
1 In common usage, more usually fumes, a gas or vapor that smells strongly or is dangerous to inhale. 2  Pere Fume (21st century), Canadian musician. 3  Silica fume, a fine-grain, thin, and very high surface area silica. 4  Fume (grape) , another name for the French wine grape Sauvignon blanc. Fume or fumes may refer to: 1  In common usage, more usually fumes, a gas or vapor that smells strongly or is dangerous to inhale. 2  Pere Fume (21st century), Canadian musician. 3  Silica fume, a fine-grain, thin, and very high surface area silica
fume ‎(plural fumes). 1  A gas or vapour / vapor that smells strongly or is dangerous to inhale. 2  Fumes are solid particles formed by condensation from the gaseous state, e.g. metal oxides from volatilized metals. 3  They can flocculate and coalesce. 4  Their particle size is between 0.1 and 1 micron. 1
Fume-shroom is the first offensive plant with an area of effect attack, as the fume cloud damages everything within its four-square range. For example, if there were three zombies in a single lane and within range of a Fume-shroom, the fumes would hit and deal equal damage to all three. 
A fume hood or fume cupboard is a type of local ventilation device that is designed to limit exposure to hazardous or toxic fumes, vapors or dusts. A fume hood is typically a large piece of equipment enclosing five sides of a work area, the bottom of which is most commonly located at a standing work height. 
Full Definition of FUME. 1. b: an often noxious suspension of particles in a gas (as air). 2. 3. : a state of excited irritation or anger —usually used in the phrase in a fume. — fumy \ˈfyue-ˈfyü\ mē. — adjective on. Fumes see fume defined For-english language. learners Examples of FUME. 1  She's still fuming about not being invited to the party. 2  We sat there waiting for him, fuming with anger at the delay. “ 3  They made these changes without even asking our opinion, ” one employee fumed. 4  The volcano was fuming thick black smoke.