The Sahel is a band of semi-arid land to the south of the Sahara desert. The rainfall is variable but mainly falls during July and August. Rainfall in the Sahel used to be higher, but now levels have dropped, and drought and desertification are taking hold. In wetter times, the Sahel was more populated.
The Sahara Desert is expanding at such a rate that it can be only a few thousand years old, indicating a young earth.
It is the largest hot desert in the world, as well as the second l … argest desert on earth after Antarctica. The Sahara covers all or part of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan, Tunisia and Western Sahara. The word Sahara means desert in the Arabic language. The Sahara is one of the hottest places on earth. September, 1922, the temperature in the Sahara soared to 136 degrees F.t is also the biggest hot desert in the world. However, it is the second biggest desert, as Antarctica is the biggest desert (but a cold desert). Some parts of the Sahara are sandy with giant dunes, while other areas are gravel plains, rock plateaus and mountains (only 3/8th of the Sahara Desert is sand).
The Sahara Desert in northern Africa is the largest hot desert in  the world at 9.65 million sq km. The Gobi Desert in China and  Mongolia is the 3rd largest hot desert in t … he world at 1.3 million  sq km.
Sahara Desert. Travel tips you can trust. Why the. Sahara Desert. is special. The Sahara Desert is now about 5,000 kilometers (3,000 miles) wide and up to 2,000 kilometers (1,200 miles) from head to foot, making it roughly as big as the United States.
It shows the location of the Sahara Desert and the Sahel region within Africa and looks at the changing patterns of rainfall in the last 50 years or so. It goes on to show how the need for fuelwood and cattle grazing has led to the spread of the desert.upils could watch the clip without sound and try to work out the causes and effects of desertification just from looking at the images. Debrief the class and then play the clip with narration to fill the gaps. Or, students could watch the clip with narration and then be given the task of writing the script.
Desert expansion varied in the 11 years of our analysis from 248,000 km2 (1988) to 1,349,000 km2 (1984), all relative to 1980. The 1984 expansion represents a 15% increase in the size of the Sahara as compared with 1980.ata from polar-orbiting meteorological satellites have been used to determine the extent of the Sahara Desert and to document its inter annual variation from 1980 to 1990. The Sahara Desert ranged from 8,633,000 square kilometers in 1980 to 9,982,000 square kilometers in 1984.
It is the largest hot desert in the world, as well as the second l … argest desert on earth after Antarctica. The Sahara covers all or part of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan, Tunisia and Western Sahara.he Sahara Desert in northern Africa is the largest hot desert in  the world at 9.65 million sq km. The Gobi Desert in China and  Mongolia is the 3rd largest hot desert in t … he world at 1.3 million  sq km.
The Sahara Desert is the world’s second largest desert (Antarctica is the largest) and is located in northern Africa. It stretches from the Red Sea to the highlands of Ethiopia.
Sahara Desert. The Sahara Desert is the world’s second largest desert (Antarctica is the largest) and is located in northern Africa. It stretches from the Red Sea to the highlands of Ethiopia. However, the Sahara encompasses regions significantly different from an ecological perspective.he surface of the desert ranges from large areas of sand dunes (which are called erg), to stone plateaus (hamadas), gravel plains (reg), dry valleys (wadis), and salt flats. The northern and southern margins also receive more rainfall and have greater vegetation than central Sahara.
In reality, eleven countries have parts of the Sahara Desert within their borders. They are: Libya, Algeria, Egypt, Tunisia, Chad, Morocco, Eritrea, Niger, Mauritania, Mali, and the Sudan.2. Very few call it home The continental U.S. is home to 300 million individuals.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Sahara Desert is expanding because of desertification; the process of earth/land turning into desert due to the loss of moisture in the soil and loss of vegetation. Also it may be caused by human activity and an increase in the human population in one area.