Read More. I am new to this site, I am curious how long an ambien stays in your system, and if it shows up as benzos. The same about a soma, how long and does it show up as benzos. One of them did. Read More. got up at 8. don't know how long i'll stay up. No I haven't abused any of the meds. just 1 ambien a night and cut the 10 mg dose of hydrocodone. in half the last week. I've been reading on here for a few days to see what to expect but till you go through it, it's just words.
Not Really Sure But. Ambien is a controled drug. Usually it depends how long you have been taking it to how long it stays in the system. Most of the time, if you have not taken it for very long, about 2 weeks clean will not show up on drug screen. & yes it will show up in the drug screen...as long as they are testing for Benzodiazepines. Benzo's are a class of antianxialytics such as Xanax, Ativan, Klonopin & Valium. They can stay in your system from 1-6 weeks. Here is a time table of drugs & when they show up in drug tests. Hope this is helpful!
Although Ambien can be detected on a urine screen for a couple of days, hair sample drug screens can detect Ambien use, frequency of use and dosing quantities for weeks or months after you take Ambien. Those who get high on Ambien increase likelihood of addiction. Peak levels and half life of Ambien. Ambien is absorbed through the GI tract rapidly and completely. The peak level of Ambien, 200 ng/mL, is reached about 30 minutes after taking a normal dose of 20 mg. Ambien peak time for effects, is between 1.5-2 hours, and up to 4 hours for Ambien CR. Typically, the half life of Ambien is about 2 hours in healthy adults. In older patients and those with cirrhosis, the half life can be doubled, taking as long as 4 hours
Ambien has an elimination half life of 2-3 hours in patients with normal hepatic function (i.e. healthy liver). Part of the Ambien CR tablet has a half life of 6-8 hours. A good rule of thumb is to multiply the half life by five to determine how long the medicine is in the body. Regular Ambien will remain in your body for 10-15 hours, or perhaps around a day for those with hepatic impairment. Report Abuse. It depends on whether you are asking about Ambien or AmbienCR (time released). Ambien stays in your system approximately 5 hours while it takes 16 hour to completely eliminate AmbienCR. Source(s): http://www.ambien.com/. Twizard113 · 9 years ago
Ask A Pharmacist Question: How long does Ambien stay in ones system after ingesting 1 10mg. ​. Answer: Hello and thank you for your question! ​Compared to many drugs, Ambien (Zolpidem) does not last very long in the body. In healthy people, the half life of Ambien is about 2.6 hours, meaning that is takes 2.6 hours for 50% of the drug to be metabolized. Typically there needs to be around 5 to 6 half lives for a drug to no longer be detectable. 
The manufacturer reports that the mean elimination half-life of one 12.5 mg dose of Ambien CR is 2.8 hours. However, the half-life for the individuals in the group tested ranged from 1.62 to 4.05 hours. 
@Gin ….Ambien stay in your blood for up to 48 hours. if you take it every night, it will show up in your blood for maybe 72 hours. ———. @dhruv, strange question, high dosage is like more than 20 mg, which is the maximum. Normal dosage is 10 mg. Peak levels and half life of Ambien. Ambien is absorbed through the GI tract rapidly and completely. The peak level of Ambien, 200 ng/mL, is reached about 30 minutes after taking a normal dose of 20 mg. Ambien peak time for effects, is between 1.5-2 hours, and up to 4 hours for Ambien CR. Typically, the half life of Ambien is about 2 hours in healthy adults. In older patients and those with cirrhosis, the half life can be doubled, taking as long as 4 hours