The immobilized enzymes can be generally classified into two groups: the carrier-bound immobilized enzymes and the carrier-free immobilized enzymes [16] . The former refers to the enzyme derivatives that are chemically or physically bound to a so-called carrier (or support), as illustrated in Figure 2.
Biology Glossary search by EverythingBio.com. The covalent attachment of an enzyme to a solid matrix (like sepharose) so that it cannot move but still act on its substrate.
The term immobilized means unable to move or stationary. And that is exactly what an immobilized enzyme is: an enzyme that is physically attached to a solid support over which a substrate is passed and converted to product.
Enzyme immobilization technology is one of the key modern industrial biotechnologies. Since the commercial use of first immobilized enzymes in the 1960s, enzyme immobilization technologies and theories as well as immobilization materials and chemistry have gained rapid development.
Regarding the similarity between the enzyme immobilization and the chemical modification [47] and [48] , many methods and principles, which are widely used in chemical modification of enzymes to enhance the enzyme functionality, can also be used to improve the performance of the carrier-bound immobilized enzymes.
Well, let's review what an enzyme is first. Enzymes are protein molecules which serve to accelerate the chemical reactions of living cells (often by several orders of magnitude).
Enzyme Immobilization (Inactivation). Enzyme immobilization may be defined as confining the enzyme molecules to a distinct phase from the one in which the substrates and the products are present; this may be achieved by fixing the enzyme molecules to or within some suitable material.
Enzymes which are immobilized on or in a variety of water-soluble or water-insoluble matrices with little or no loss of their catalytic activity. Since they can be reused continuously, immobilized enzymes have found wide application in the industrial, medical and research fields.
It is important to understand the changes in physical and chemical properties which an enzyme would be expected to undergo upon immobilization (sometimes referred to as insolubilization). There are a number of factors that affect the rate of the enzyme's catalytic activities.