6. Clean the concrete surface. Use a power or pressure washer to remove all traces of the paint stripper. If you have removed paint drops or drips, cleaning the concrete can avoid leaving clean spots on the surface. 4. Scrape the mixture off. The paint thinner should have done most of the work for you, allowing you to remove most of the paint by simply scraping the mixture off with a hard plastic scraper. Add a second layer of mixture if there is remaining paint, and repeat the process.
The Behr 1-Gallon Concrete and Masonry Paint Stripper helps remove multiple layers of paint, stain, epoxies and sealers from concrete and masonry surfaces. This remover has a quick and easy water cleanup. California residents: see Proposition 65 information. 
KILZ Concrete & Masonry Paint Stripper is a biodegradable coatings stripper for use on interior and exterior vertical and horizontal surfaces. 1 If water appears to have separated out, stir product until uniform. 2  Do not dilute. 3  For vertical and glossy or greasy surfaces, scuff sand the surface lightly with a medium grit sand paper prior to application to prevent sagging of paint stripper.
Scrub the concrete. Use a wire scrub brush or a scraper to remove the loosened paint. You could also use a pressure washer for outdoor concrete surfaces such as driveways or patios. 4. Scrape the mixture off. The paint thinner should have done most of the work for you, allowing you to remove most of the paint by simply scraping the mixture off with a hard plastic scraper. Add a second layer of mixture if there is remaining paint, and repeat the process.
2. Apply a chemical paint stripper to the concrete surface. The type of stripper you should use depends on the type of paint you are trying to remove, such as water-based or oil-based paint. If in doubt, use a stripper designed for removing oil-based paints. 4. Scrape the mixture off. The paint thinner should have done most of the work for you, allowing you to remove most of the paint by simply scraping the mixture off with a hard plastic scraper. Add a second layer of mixture if there is remaining paint, and repeat the process.
If you’re uncertain, your best bet is to opt for an oil-based paint stripper. Once you’ve covered the concrete with a generous layer of paint stripper, let it sit for six to eight hours. During that time, a chemical reaction will take place, the magical result of which is the removal of paint. For this stage of the job, so long as you’re working on a compact concrete patch, you can probably get by with a wire scrub brush or a paint scraper. On a larger surface, to make things much more manageable, it’s recommended that you rent a pressure washer from your local home center (or borrow one from a neighbor).
Step 1: Prepare the Concrete. Clean the floor thoroughly before you begin the process of removing paint. This will help ensure that nothing on the floor can cause problems with any paint removal chemicals you may use. Use soap and water and a scrub brush to scrub any stains or locations where there may be oil. Tri-sodium phosphate, or TSP, is ideal for this type of cleaning. Ammonia is also good at cutting grease and oil. Step 2: Use a Pressure Washer. Using a pressure washer is a good first step to removing paint. Pressure washers often have enough power to remove paint. This is especially true if a sealant was used on the concrete prior to applying the paint.
You'll need to use a water-based stain if you have the following issues: 1  Stains (i.e., oil or grease) that you can't remove. 2  Concrete has already been cleaned with acid. 3  Concrete was sealed during installation. 4  You'll need to remove sealer before staining. Step 2. After the stain has completely dried, add the sealant. Use a paint roller with an extension pole to evenly roll it onto the floor. To achieve the smoothest application, use a synthetic roller.
Steps. 1. Clean the concrete surface. 1  Remove any existing paint using a power washer or, if indoors, a scraper and wire brush. 2  Sweep the area and clean the concrete surface with soap and water. 3  Remove dense areas of oil or grease with tri-sodium phosphate (TSP) to ensure that discoloration of the paint does not occur. Apply 2-to-3 thin coats of concrete paint with a brush or roller, allowing for the manufacturer's recommended drying time between coats.