A nest of baby squirrels will not only die, but quickly put your family in a hotel because of the smell of dead squirrels. Typically, a squirrel gestation period is 30 – 44 days. The Fox and Eastern Grey squirrels typically have two litters a year. Although their breeding and gestation periods vary because of many factors, the young are usually born between February and April, and then again in August and September. 
Larger tree and flying squirrels (like fox and gray squirrels) usually have gestation periods of anywhere between 38 and 46 days, while smaller species often gestate for less than 38 days. Their abundance is perhaps supported by the fact that there are well over 250 squirrel species, including types of ground squirrels, tree squirrels, chipmunks, marmots and flying squirrels.
In fact, a single litter of babies may have different fathers. Gestation for ground squirrels lasts between 25 and 30 days. Litters can be quite large (up to 15 babies per litter), but the average size is only seven or eight babies. Of these, only five or six are likely to survive to maturity. After conception occurs, gestation usually lasts 45 days. On average, mother squirrels welcome two to three babies, but she can have up to seven babies in a single litter. Typically, only one litter of babies is born to a mother fox squirrel per year. Two is the maximum possible.
The gestation period varies from 33 days in the smaller species to 60 days in the larger species, but is approximately 44 days for the eastern gray squirrel. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Answer   The gestation period, or pregnancy can vary between species, ranging from from 16 days for the Syrian hamster, and up to to 30 days for species of the Dwarf hams … ter.     16 to 30 days
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The period of gestation varies from 33 days in the smaller species of pine squirrels, up to 60 days for the larger species such as the common gray and fox squirrels.. Source(s): http://www.squirrels.org/facts.html. AliDawn · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Squirrels are common throughout the world and occur naturally in North and South America, Europe, Asia and Africa. Their abundance is perhaps supported by the fact that there are well over 250 squirrel species, including types of ground squirrels, tree squirrels, chipmunks, marmots and flying squirrels. Still, most of these small to medium-sized rodents share similar breeding habits
The gestation period varies from 33 days in the smaller species to 60 days in the larger species, but is approximately 44 days for the eastern gray squirrel. 6 people found this useful. Gestation for a whitetailed deer is about 6 and 1/2 months or 200 days. Does can mate in their first year but usually not untill the second year.
Because all squirrels are mammals, their reproduction behaviors are somewhat similar, but issues of gestation, litter size and mating can vary from species to species. To understand the similarities and differences between squirrel species, we can compare several of their gestation and mating habits. After conception occurs, gestation usually lasts 45 days. On average, mother squirrels welcome two to three babies, but she can have up to seven babies in a single litter. Typically, only one litter of babies is born to a mother fox squirrel per year. Two is the maximum possible.