1 Each of these enzymes or proteins, if elevated, will tell your doctor if there is a problem with a certain area of your liver. 2  It will also suggest if there is a problem elsewhere in the blood. 3  Your liver enzymes may be elevated if: 4  You have an infection, blockage or damage to
Definition. Elevated liver enzymes may indicate inflammation or damage to cells in the liver. Inflamed or injured liver cells leak higher than normal amounts of certain chemicals, including liver enzymes, into the bloodstream, which can result in elevated liver enzymes on blood tests.
1 Your liver enzymes may be elevated if: 2  You have an infection, blockage or damage to your liver. 3  There may be a blockage to the liver, gall bladder or the common bile duct, such as gallstones, tumor, or infection. 4  Certain drugs or medications may have damaged
Many diseases and conditions can contribute to elevated liver enzymes. Your doctor determines the specific cause of your elevated liver enzymes by reviewing your medications, your signs and symptoms and, in some cases, other tests and procedures. More common causes of elevated liver enzymes include: 1  Certain prescription medications, including statin drugs used to control cholesterol.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen and diclofenac, may increase liver enzymes. Isoniazid, nitrofurantoin, trimethoprim, hydralazine and quinidine may also cause elevations in th
Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Polka Dot/Getty Images. Elevated liver enzymes may indicate liver damage or inflammation. Liver injury results in the leakage of enzymes called aminotransferases, which include alanine aminotransferase, or ALT, and aspartate aminotransferase, or AST.
A variety of medications can cause abnormal liver enzymes levels in some individuals. Examples of some of the common medications with potential liver toxicity include: Pain relief medications such as: 1  aspirin, 2  acetaminophen (Tylenol), 3  ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), 4  naproxen (Naprosyn, Naprelan, Anaprox, Aleve), 5  diclofenac (Voltaren, Cataflam, Voltaren-XR), and. 6  phenylbutazone (Butazolidine).