A controlled variable is a variable in an experiment that is kept the same throughout all the trails.   A manipulated variable the exact opposite. This variable changes t … hroughout each trail of the experiment. There should usually be only one manipulated variable in an experiment. A control variable is the one that stays the same. A controlled variable is a variable that is kept the same between the control group and experimental group, so that only the … experimental (independent) variable is allowed to change. + 41 others found this useful.
The control variable strongly influences experimental results, and it is held constant during the experiment in order to test the relative relationship of the dependent and independent variables. The control variable itself is not of primary interest to the experimenter. A variable in an experiment which is held constant in order to assess the relationship between two other variables, is the control variable.
A variable that is held constant in order to assess or clarify the relationship between two other variables. Control variable should not be confused with controlled variable, which is an alternative term for independent variable. 
These changing quantities are called variables. A variable is any factor, trait, or condition that can exist in differing amounts or types. An experiment usually has three kinds of variables: independent, dependent, and controlled. The independent variable is the one that is changed by the scientist. To ensure a fair test, a good experiment has only one independent variable
Not to be confused with Control variable (programming) or Control variable (statistics) . The control variable (or scientific constant) in scientific experimentation is the experimental element which is constant and unchanged throughout the course of the investigation. A variable in an experiment which is held constant in order to assess the relationship between two other variables, is the control variable.
There should be three categories of variables in every experiment: dependent, independent, and controlled. Dependent -- is what will be measured; it's what the investigator thinks will be affected during the experiment. For example, the investigator may want to study coffee bean growth. Define the Variables. 