The backbone of the state is the Sierra de Baja California, where the Picacho del Diablo, the highest point of the peninsula, is located. This mountain range effectively divides the weather patterns in the state. In the northwest, the weather is semi-dry and mediterranean. In fact, the westernmost point in Mexico, the Guadalupe Island, is part of Baja California. The Coronado, Todos Santos and Cedros Islands are also on the Pacific Shore. On the Gulf of California, the biggest island is the Angel de la Guarda, separated from the peninsula by the deep and narrow Canal de Ballenas.
state of California, on the west by the Pacific Ocean, on the south by Baja California Sur, and on the east by the U.S. State of Arizona, Sonora, and the Gulf of California (Sea of Cortez). The towns of Mexicali, Tijuana and Tecate on the US border are major manufacturing centers. 
The state has a population of 2,844,469 (2005 census), and estimated 3,165,776 (June 2009) much more than the sparsely populated Baja California Sur to the south, and similar to San Diego County, California on its north. Over 75% of the population lives in the capital city, Mexicali, in Ensenada, or in Tijuana. In fact, the westernmost point in Mexico, the Guadalupe Island, is part of Baja California. The Coronado, Todos Santos and Cedros Islands are also on the Pacific Shore. On the Gulf of California, the biggest island is the Angel de la Guarda, separated from the peninsula by the deep and narrow Canal de Ballenas.
A Mexican peninsula extending into the Pacific Ocean from the south end of the U.S. state of California, Baja California provides some of Mexico 's most dramatic sea and landscapes. This includes everything from vast and remote deserts, dormant volcanoes and wonderful old mission towns. The primary carrier traveling up and down the Baja California peninsula is ABC (Autobuses de Baja California) while Grupo Estrella Blanca connects Tijuana and Mexicali with other cities on the Mexican mainland (via Hwy 2 and 15).
Its land mass separates the Pacific Ocean from the Gulf of California. The peninsula extends 1,247 kilometres (775 mi) from Mexicali, Baja California in the north to Cabo San Lucas, Baja California Sur in the south. The total area of the Baja California Peninsula is 143,390 square kilometres (55,360 sq mi). The peninsula is separated from mainland Mexico by the Gulf of California and the Colorado River.
Its land mass separates the Pacific Ocean from the Gulf of California / Sea of Cortez. The Baja California Peninsula extends 1,247 kilometres (775 mi) from Mexicali, in the northern state of Baja California to Cabo San Lucas, Baja California Sur, the southern state of the peninsula. It ranges for 40 kilometres (25 mi) at its narrowest to 320 kilometres (200 mi) at its widest point and has approximately 3,000 kilometres (1,900 mi) of coastline and approximately 65 islands. The total area of the Baja California Peninsula is 143,390 square kilometres (55,360 sq mi). The peninsula is separated from mainland Mexico by the Sea of Cortez and the Colorado River
Baja California (. [ˈbaxa kaliˈfornja] listen (help·info)), officially Free and Sovereign State of Baja California (Spanish: Estado Libre y Soberano de Baja California), is a state in Mexico. It is the northernmost and westernmost of the 31 states which, with the Federal District, comprise the 32 Federal Entities of Mexico. In fact, the westernmost point in Mexico, the Guadalupe Island, is part of Baja California. The Coronado, Todos Santos and Cedros Islands are also on the Pacific Shore. On the Gulf of California, the biggest island is the Angel de la Guarda, separated from the peninsula by the deep and narrow Canal de Ballenas.
Introduction. Tourists flock to Baja California—separated from the rest of Mexico by the Sea of Cortez—to visit its stunning shoreline and test their mettle at sport fishing. The state’s border crossing at Tijuana is the busiest in all of Mexico. The independence movement in Mexico began in 1810, but Baja California’s involvement was minimal, given its small population. The Spanish presence on the peninsula consisted primarily of missions, and the missions were closely linked to the Spanish crown.