Group A β-hemolytic streptococcus is the most common pathogen responsible for erysipelas, and S. aureus is by far the most common pathogen for cellulitis. S. pyogenes produces enzymes that promote infection with systemic manifestations, such as fever and chills, tachycardia, and hypotension. Two clinical types of impetigo exist: nonbullous and bullous. The nonbullous type is more common and typically occurs on the face and extremities, initially with vesicles or pustules on reddened skin. The vesicles or pustules eventually rupture to leave the characteristic honey-colored (yellow-brown) crust (Fig. 1).
Some pathogenic bacteria cause disease under certain conditions, such entry through the skin via a cut, through sexual activity or an compromised immune function. Streptococcus and Staphylococcus are part of the normal skin microbiota and typically reside on healthy skin or in the nasopharangeal region. Other bacteria are opportunistic pathogens and cause disease mainly in people suffering from immunosuppression or cystic fibrosis Examples of these opportunistic pathogens include Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Burkholderia cenocepacia, and Mycobacterium avium.
Overview. A pathogen is a biological agent, or germ, that causes disease to its host by interrupting normal body processes. Bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites are all common types of pathogens that can cause pathogenic, or infectious, diseases. These pathogens can be found in the air, soil and water, and infection can occur as a result of touching, eating or drinking something that is infected with a germ.
Gram–positive bacteria normally found on the skin, such as Staphylococcus epidermidis or Staphylococcus aureus, are the most common bacterial contaminants of blood products. This type of contamination is thought to occur when the bacteria on the skin is passed into the collected blood through the collection needle. 
Children, patients who have diabetes, or patients who have immunodeficiencies are more susceptible to gram-negative infections and may require treatment with a second-or third-generation cephalosporin. Bacterial skin infections are the 28th most common diagnosis in hospitalized patients. 1 Cellulitis, impetigo, and folliculitis are the most common bacterial skin infections seen by the family physician. Cellulitis commonly occurs near breaks in the skin, such as surgical wounds, trauma, tinea infections (Figure 1) , or ulcerations, but occasionally presents in skin that appears normal. Patients may have a fever and an elevated white blood cell count. Cellulitis can occur on any part of the body
Family physicians frequently treat bacterial skin infections in the office and in the hospital. Common skin infections include cellulitis, erysipelas, impetigo, folliculitis, and furuncles and carbuncles. Cellulitis commonly occurs near breaks in the skin, such as surgical wounds, trauma, tinea infections (Figure 1) , or ulcerations, but occasionally presents in skin that appears normal. Patients may have a fever and an elevated white blood cell count. Cellulitis can occur on any part of the body
It is not possible to list all the pathogens that are capable of causing some conditions, such as pneumonia, food poisoning, meningitis, urine infections, respiratory viruses, etc. For those conditions, only the most common pathogens are shown. 
Although most bacteria are harmless or often beneficial, several are pathogenic. One of the bacterial diseases with the highest disease burden is tuberculosis, caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which kills about 2 million people a year, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. Other bacteria are opportunistic pathogens and cause disease mainly in people suffering from immunosuppression or cystic fibrosis Examples of these opportunistic pathogens include Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Burkholderia cenocepacia, and Mycobacterium avium.