Delegates in favor of ratification (Federalists) were led by James Madison, who had been a driving force behind the framing of the new Constitution. Other notable Federalists included Pendleton, George Wythe, chair of the Rules Committee at the Constitutional Convention, William Overton Callis and John Marshall. A major issue during the Virginia Ratification Convention was the question of individual rights. Many delegates who were generally in favor of the Constitution were concerned that it did not contain a list of guaranteed rights akin to the celebrated Virginia Declaration of Rights.
The Virginia Plan (also known as the Randolph Plan, after its sponsor, or the Large-State Plan) was a proposal by Virginia delegates for a bicameral legislative branch. The plan was drafted by James Madison while he waited for a quorum to assemble at the Constitutional Convention of 1787. Large states supported this plan, and smaller states generally opposed it, preferring an alternative put forward on June 15. The New Jersey Plan proposed a single-chamber legislature in which each state, regardless of size, would have one vote, as under the Articles of Confederation.
The Virginia Delegates made better time and were the first to arrive at the State House in Philadelphia. The very first man at the convention was renowned Father of the Constitution. James Madison. While waiting for the others, he began drafting a blueprint which would eventually be known as the Virginia Plan. The Constitutional Convention originally gathered in Philadelphia to revise the Articles of Confederation, only to produce something much different. The Virginia Delegation, headed by James Madison, framed the debate by immediately drawing up and presenting a proposal.
How to use citation info. (on Archives.gov). Drafted by James Madison, and presented by Edmund Randolph to the Constitutional Convention on May 29, 1787, the Virginia Plan proposed a strong central government composed of three branches: legislative, executive, and judicial. 
The Virginia Plan. Original Text of the Virginia Plan (1787). The Virginia Plan was a proposal by Virginia delegates for a bicameral legislative branch. The document is important for its role in setting the stage for the convention and, in particular, for creating the idea of representation according to population. The Constitutional Convention originally gathered in Philadelphia to revise the Articles of Confederation, only to produce something much different. The Virginia Delegation, headed by James Madison, framed the debate by immediately drawing up and presenting a proposal.
The list of changes was drafted by James Madison and presented to the Convention by the governor of Virgina, Edmund Randolph. It became known as the Virginia Plan. It was presented to the Convention on May 29, 1787. Also of interest are Charles Pinckney's Plan, the New Jersey Plan, and the British Plan. The following text was taken from the Avalon Project's reproduction of Madison's notes from the convention. The Constitutional Convention was tasked with proposing amendments to the Articles of Confederation which would make it a more workable plan for national government. Though the final product of the Convention was a replacement for the Articles, the first proposal was presented as a series of changes to the Articles.
The Virginia Ratifying Convention (also historically referred to as the Virginia Federal Convention) was a convention of 168 delegates from Virginia who met in 1788 to ratify or reject the United States Constitution, which had been drafted at the Philadelphia Convention the previous year. A major issue during the Virginia Ratification Convention was the question of individual rights. Many delegates who were generally in favor of the Constitution were concerned that it did not contain a list of guaranteed rights akin to the celebrated Virginia Declaration of Rights.
The Convention met and deliberated from June 2 through June 27 in Richmond at the Richmond Theatre, presently the site of Monumental Church. Judge Edmund Pendleton, Virginia delegate to the Constitutional Convention, served as the convention's president by unanimous consent. A major issue during the Virginia Ratification Convention was the question of individual rights. Many delegates who were generally in favor of the Constitution were concerned that it did not contain a list of guaranteed rights akin to the celebrated Virginia Declaration of Rights.
The Virginia Plan was a set of fifteen proposals that the governor of Virginia Edmund Randolph presented to the delegates of the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia, on May 29, 1787. These resolutions, drafted by James Madison, essentially outlined a new form of government. 
(on Archives.gov). Drafted by James Madison, and presented by Edmund Randolph to the Constitutional Convention on May 29, 1787, the Virginia Plan proposed a strong central government composed of three branches: legislative, executive, and judicial. 