Cyberpunk is also a culture with attitude and a distinct style. Anti-authoritarian, brand-averse, tech-literate; these are just some of the qualities you may find in a cyberpunk. It’s all there; high-tech, hard-boiled detective, femme fatale, a city at night. We can break down a basic definition of cyberpunk by dissecting the word itself. Cyber refers to technology, and is most often associated with cyberspace (this word was originally coined by William Gibson himself), and cybernetic enhancements to the body.
Trying to define Cyberpunk is a difficult task. In short, however, Cyberpunk refers to both a culture and a genre. Cyberpunk is a sub-genre of science fiction that features advanced science and technology in an urban, dystopian future. We can break down a basic definition of cyberpunk by dissecting the word itself. Cyber refers to technology, and is most often associated with cyberspace (this word was originally coined by William Gibson himself), and cybernetic enhancements to the body.
Cyberpunk is a subgenre of science fiction in a future setting, noted for its focus on  high tech and low life. It features advanced technology and science, such as information technology and cybernetics, coupled with a degree of breakdown or radical change in the social order. Of Japan's influence on the genre, William Gibson said, Modern Japan simply was cyberpunk.. Cyberpunk is often set in urbanized, artificial landscapes, and city lights, receding was used by Gibson as one of the genre's first metaphors for cyberspace and virtual reality.
by Josh Evans. Cyberpunk is a science fiction genre that has primary themes of hyper-corporatism, online intrigue, virtual reality and a black market underground with heroes that are often labeled as criminals by their society. All of these elements do not have to be present to classify a creative work as cyberpunk. Some people differentiate cyberpunk literature by adding the post-cyberpunk label for works that were written much later and in a different style than William Gibson’s ‘Neuromancer,’ which is considered as one of the first cyberpunk novels and a prime example of the genre.
Science Fiction. Cyberpunk as a Science Fiction Genre. Cyberpunk is a literary movement, born in the 1980's, that seeks to completely integrate the realms of high tech and of pop culture, both mainstream and underground, and break down the separation between the organic and the artificial. Cyberpunk is a member of the genre of fiction known as Hard (or Hard Core) Science Fiction. It is called Hard Science Fiction because of its heavy reliance on technology or biology to tell a story.
Then of course, there are the core cyberpunk authors that are generally accepted to have laid the ground work of the cyberpunk movement William Gibson (Gibson is considered the founder of Cyberpunk), Bruce Sterling, Pat Cadigan, Rudy Rucker, John Shirley and Lewis Shiner. We can break down a basic definition of cyberpunk by dissecting the word itself. Cyber refers to technology, and is most often associated with cyberspace (this word was originally coined by William Gibson himself), and cybernetic enhancements to the body.
Cover of Cyberpunk 2020. Cyberpunk 2020 is a cyberpunk role-playing game written by Mike Pondsmith and published by R. Talsorian Games. This role-playing game is based on the works of William Gibson, Bruce Sterling, and other authors of the Mirrorshades group
Cyberpunk plots often center on a conflict among artificial intelligences, and megacorporations, and tend to be set in a future Earth, rather than the far-future settings or galactic vistas found in novels such as Isaac Asimov 's Foundation or Frank Herbert 's Dune. Of Japan's influence on the genre, William Gibson said, Modern Japan simply was cyberpunk.. Cyberpunk is often set in urbanized, artificial landscapes, and city lights, receding was used by Gibson as one of the genre's first metaphors for cyberspace and virtual reality.