An S corp may own up to 100 percent of an LLC, or limited liability company. While all but single-member LLCs cannot be shareholders in S corporations, the reverse -- an S corporation owning an LLC -- is legal. The similarity of tax treatment for S corps and LLCs eliminates most of the common concerns about IRS issues. There is, however, one way for an LLC to own stock in an S corp. A single member LLC, taxed as a sole proprietorship, is called a disregarded entity by the IRS. Treated like an unincorporated individual, this LLC could own stock in an S corp and receive profits in relation to its ownership percentage.
As a pass-through entity (unless it chooses tax treatment as a corporation), all of an LLC's profits and losses pass through the LLC to its owner(s), known as member(s). As with a proprietorship or partnership, each individual member reports the profits and losses on his or her federal tax return. Whether an LLC is treated for federal tax purposes as a sole proprietorship, a partnership or a corporation, the members are still shielded from liability. For tax purposes, by default, an LLC with one member is treated as a sole proprietorship.
A single-member LLC can simply accept the the IRS default classification as a sole proprietorship, or elect a different classification by filing IRS Form 8832 for treatment as a C corporation, or Form 2553 for treatment as an S corporation. Under an S corporation classification, a single-member LLC needs to have a large enough profit in excess of the owner’s salary to realize any tax savings on passive income.
A single-member limited liability company, as a solely owned LLC is called, gives the owner a choice of how to be taxed -- as a sole proprietorship, an S corporation or a C corporation. The legal structure of the business itself doesn’t change with any of the choices. Under an S corporation classification, a single-member LLC needs to have a large enough profit in excess of the owner’s salary to realize any tax savings on passive income.
Because the LLC is an entity created by state statute (and not the federal government), it offers flexibility when it comes to federal tax treatment. A single-member LLC can choose to be taxed as a sole proprietorship or a corporation (either C Corporation or S Corporation). Likewise, a multi-member LLC can choose to be taxed as a partnership or a corporation (either C Corporation or S Corporation). 2. For federal tax purposes, if an LLC has two or more members, it will be taxed as a partnership unless it makes an election to be taxed as an S Corp or C Corp (see below). In the case of a multi-member LLC taxed as a partnership, the LLC reports its business income on a separate 1065 partnership tax return.
Question: I am the owner of a single-member LLC and would like to know what I can write off on my taxes this year. An LLC is unique in that it can be taxed as a disregarded entity, partnership, C Corp or an S Corp. A single member or owner LLC can be taxed as a disregarded entity, C Corp or S corp. A multi-member or owner LLC can be taxed as a partnership, C Corp or S corp. 
Related Ads. The default federal tax status for a single-member limited liability company (SMLLC) is disregarded entity. However, the owner of an SMLLC can elect to have the business taxed as either a traditional C corporation or as an S corporation. An S corporation is a special type of small, closely-held corporation. Buy the book ». An S corporation, like a typical LLC or sole proprietorship (but unlike a traditional corporation), is subject to pass-through taxation. In other words, the responsibility for paying income tax passes through the business to you personally.
So an LLC treated for tax purposes as a corporation can't own an S corporation. Things get a little trickier if you're talking about a single member LLC that's not made an election to be treated as a corporation... and here's why: Such a single member LLC is disregarded or ignored for tax accounting purposes. Accordingly, while a partnership or an LLC taxed as a partnership can't own an S corporation, an S corporation can own an interest in a partnership or an LLC taxed as a partnership. Similarly, while a corporation can't in almost all situations own an S corp, an S corp can own