If you wonder how in the world a Hilltopper can be made into a mascot, the answer is Big Red--a mascot that doesn't necessarily look like anything, and is certainly not a hill.omments. The Western Kentucky Hilltoppers are traveling to UAB tonight to take on the Blazers in an important basketball contest, and fans will see a very interesting mascot on the sidelines.
This is a question my brother and I were searching for an answer for durng the first and second rounds of the tournament in Portland, Oregon. We asked basketball fans…bartenders…even the Western Kentucky cheerleaders. No one would or could tell us what a hilltopper was…until now. 
Your SEU Hilltopper Card is your identification card. It offers you a convenient and secure way to make purchases and utilize campus services and resources. A. Your SEU Hilltopper Card will remain active and all assigned privileges continue as long as you are enrolled in classes at SEU or are employed by the University.
A. Your ID is a computerized plastic card with a magnetic stripe and bar code on the back. Your name, classification, ID number and photo on the front of the card. The card is activated with basic services once you are officially registered.. Your SEU Hilltopper Card will remain active and all assigned privileges continue as long as you are enrolled in classes at SEU or are employed by the University.
- Book Big Red for an Event. - Big Red on Youtube. - Big Red's Official Facebook Page. Big Red, Western Kentucky University's athletic mascot, was born in the fall of 1979 and celebrates its birthday on December 1st. 
The WKU Hilltoppers are named for the campus's location in Bowling Green, Kentucky; the majority of the campus is atop a hill that overlooks the surrounding region. In 1911, much of the campus was moved atop the hill and students were seen carrying supplies up the hill to the new location. Hence, Hilltoppers. Comments. The Western Kentucky Hilltoppers are traveling to UAB tonight to take on the Blazers in an important basketball contest, and fans will see a very interesting mascot on the sidelines.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Western Kentucky University's athletic teams have the nickname Hilltoppers.. The reason behind the name is that the WKU campus is situated on a hill. Most dorms are at the bottom of the hill, while academic buildings are at the top. So, a Hilltopper is a WKU student (including athletes), who walk to the top of the hill every day.
Hilltopper is a popular InviZimal and is a second find. InviZimal in the 1st Game. it is a ice type. Mako, a member of the Tokyo Club had one on level 3 and him along with Ronin and Akira are the only people in the Tokyo Club who use Vectors. Appearance Edit. hilltopper max giving me a glare. In pup form, Hilltopper is a small purple goat with thorn-like horns. In colt, it's bigger with more thorns along its back and blue tatoo-like paterns. In max, it is huge with giant thorn vines all over its back. Its horns are now antlers and its tatoos are now widespread