Definition of ACCULTURATION. 1. : cultural modification of an individual, group, or people by adapting to or borrowing traits from another culture; also: a merging of cultures as a result of prolonged contact. 2. : the process by which a human being acquires the culture of a particular society from infancy
Acculturation explains the process of cultural change and psychological change that results following meeting between cultures. As enculturation is used to describe the process of first-culture learning, acculturation can be thought of as second-culture learning. The concept of acculturation has been studied scientifically since 1918.
Acculturation Theory is a second language acquisition theory by John Schumann. Interestingly, Schumann’s theory is not based on the mental processes necessary to acquire a language, nor the nature of language itself. The Acculturation Theory focuses in socio-cultural factors in language teaching and learning. In brief, the Acculturation Theory posits that, in learning a second or a target language, certain social factors come into play that either inhibit or aid in the acquisition of that target language.
1. The modification of the culture of a group or individual as a result of contact with a different culture. 2. The process by which the culture of a particular society is instilled in a human from infancy onward. ac·cul′tur·a′tion·al adj.
The effects of acculturation can be seen at multiple levels in both interacting cultures. At the group level, acculturation often results in changes to culture, customs, and social institutions. Noticeable group level effects of acculturation often include changes in food, clothing, and language. As enculturation is used to describe the process of first-culture learning, acculturation can be thought of as second-culture learning. The concept of acculturation has been studied scientifically since 1918.
acculturation. [əkul′chərā′shən]. 1 the process of adopting the cultural traits or social patterns of a different population group. 2 the modification of culture of a group resulting from association with another group. 
Culture theory. Culture theory is the branch of comparative anthropology and semiotics that seeks to define the heuristic concept of culture in operational and/or scientific terms. In the 19th century, culture was used by some to refer to a wide array of human activities, and by others as a synonym for civilization