Insolation can be direct or diffuse. Direct radiation is solar radiation received by the Earth’s surface and/or atmosphere that has not been altered by atmospheric scattering. Diffused radiation is solar radiation that has been modified by scattering. This intense solar radiation as it is known in physical geography originates in the sun’s core and is eventually sent to Earth after convection (the vertical movement of energy) forces it away from the sun’s core.
Solar irradiance (also Insolation, from Latin insolare, to expose to the sun) is the power per unit area produced by the Sun in the form of electromagnetic radiation. Irradiance may be measured in space or at the Earth's surface after atmospheric absorption and scattering. Ignoring clouds, the daily average irradiance for the Earth is approximately 6 kWh/m 2 = 21.6 MJ/m 2. The output of, for example, a photovoltaic panel, partly depends on the angle of the sun relative to the panel. One Sun is a unit of power flux, not a standard value for actual insolation.
The input of radiant energy from the Sun is called insolation. Insolation is the amount of radiant energy from the Sun which impacts upon a unit surface area. This will depend upon the angle of the Sun with respect to the vertical over the surface. This angle is called the zenith angle. If the Earth's axis of rotation had no inclination with respect to the plane of its orbit then the insolation at high noon is simply αcos(φ) where φ is the latitude angle and α is the intensity of the Sun's radiation above the atmosphere.
Insolation can be measured in space, at the edge of the atmosphere or at a terrestrial object. Insolation can also be expressed in Suns, where one Sun equals 1000 W/m 2 at the point of arrival, with kWh/m 2 /day expressed as hours/day. Ignoring clouds, the daily average irradiance for the Earth is approximately 6 kWh/m 2 = 21.6 MJ/m 2. The output of, for example, a photovoltaic panel, partly depends on the angle of the sun relative to the panel. One Sun is a unit of power flux, not a standard value for actual insolation.
In Winter Solstice it is reverse. Factors affecting the distribution of Insolation. Solar constant: Solar constant is the amount of solar energy received by per unit area of the earth surface, it is 2 gram calories per square kilometer per minute. Lattitude affects the distribution of the Insolation, Lattitude affects by affecting the angle of the sun rays and length of the day. Insolation is higher in the areas getting vertical sun light while meager in the areas of slanting rays. Lengthier day gets more energy than shorter day.
Figure 1 below shows that the amount of Insolation received by the Earth s surface does indeed vary. At the Equator there is a year round gain of Insolation and this region gains the most Insolation of all of the locations on the globe. The amount of Insolation at the Equator also varies little throughout the year. As you progress north and south of the Equator the amount of Insolation received by the Earth s surface varies seasonally and decreases in quantity towards the Poles.
Geography-What is Insolation. Insolation is nothing but solar energy received on the earth. The sun emits radiation continously in the form of short wave and ultraviolet radiation, this radiation has to pass the atmosphere before it reaches the earth. Lattitude affects the distribution of the Insolation, Lattitude affects by affecting the angle of the sun rays and length of the day. Insolation is higher in the areas getting vertical sun light while meager in the areas of slanting rays. Lengthier day gets more energy than shorter day.
1 2. Distribution of Insolation The places where the sun is perpendicular, or overhead, is the subsolar point  All other places receive diffuse insolation  Insolation: incoming solar radiation. Tropics receive more concentrated insolation due to Earth’s curvature  2.5× more insolation than poles! This presentation reviews the impact the curvature of the Earth has on the distribution of incoming solar radiation, or insolation.
Once the Earth’s atmosphere receives shortwave solar radiation, the energy is referred to as insolation. This insolation is the energy input responsible to moving the various Earth-atmosphere systems like the energy balance described above but also weather events, oceanic currents, and other Earth cycles. This intense solar radiation as it is known in physical geography originates in the sun’s core and is eventually sent to Earth after convection (the vertical movement of energy) forces it away from the sun’s core.
An alternate unit of measure is the Langley (1 thermochemical calorie per square centimeter or 41,840 J/m 2) or irradiance per unit time. The solar energy business uses watt-hour per square metre (Wh/m 2). Divided by the recording time, this measure becomes insolation, another unit of irradiance. Ignoring clouds, the daily average irradiance for the Earth is approximately 6 kWh/m 2 = 21.6 MJ/m 2. The output of, for example, a photovoltaic panel, partly depends on the angle of the sun relative to the panel. One Sun is a unit of power flux, not a standard value for actual insolation.