MTHFR gene is in charge of Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) an enzyme responsible for folic acid metabolism in the body. In this article we’ll look at the function of this enzyme, why it’s important for fertility and the standard treatment for MTHFR mutation. 1 If you test positive, read on, if you test negative, stick to recommended dose of 800 micrograms of folic acid per day. 2  If you tested positive for MTHFR gene polymorphism you will need follow the treatment for MTHFR mutation: start taking 1-5 mg of folic acid a day. 3  Methylated form is best (5-MTHF).
Fortunately, you can easily be tested for the MTHFR mutation. If you find out that you have one or more of the gene mutations, you can supplement with methyl-folate and methyl B12, the active forms of these B vitamins. You can also supplement with liposomal or acetyl-glutathione, the end product of the pathway. 
Even though there are variations of the mutation, all deficiencies in MTHFR can cause disastrous developmental issues, such as autism, dementia, fibromyalgia, chronic migraines, nerve pain, issues with pregnancy, and schizophrenia. According to research, more than half the general population has some type of MTHFR mutation. Even though you can’t swap out a defective gene, you can help the gene work better with the right nutritional intervention, vitamin supplements, and detoxification therapies.
Furthermore, a MTHFR C677T mutation may cause elevated levels of homocysteine in the body. Homocysteine contributes to oxidative stress and increases risk of heart disease when elevated. MTHFR A1298C MTHFR A1298C mutations affect conversion of methylfolate into BH4, or tetrahydrobiopterin. MTHFR A1298C mutations may also affect melatonin production, which often leads to sleep disturbances. Additionally, BH4 is important for heart health and deficiency may play a role in the development of cardiovascular disease. MTHFR Treatment The treatment of MTHFR mutations is often a two-pronged approach.
1 Compound Heterozygous: means you have one copy of the 677 mutation from one parent and one copy of the 1298 mutation from the other parent. 2  Triple homozygous mutations (more rare): an example would be one C677T, one A1298C, and a P39P or R594Q, for example. 1 Heterozygous: means you have one copy of either the 677 mutation, or the 1298 mutation, plus a normal one from the other parent. 2 
If you see a +/+ for any mutation, this means you are homozygous for that mutation. If you see +/- for a mutation, this means you are heterozygous for that mutation. A -/- means you do not have that mutation. Overview of MTHFR Mutations The two most common MTHFR mutations are C677T and A1298C. Treatment options for both are similar, but it is important to know the subtle differences between each type of mutation in order to most effectively address each mutation. MTHFR A1298C mutations may also affect melatonin production, which often leads to sleep disturbances. Additionally, BH4 is important for heart health and deficiency may play a role in the development of cardiovascular disease. MTHFR Treatment The treatment of MTHFR mutations is often a two-pronged approach.
There are many combinations of MTHFR: 1  Homozygous: means you have both copies of either the 677 mutation, or the 1298 mutation, one from from each parent. 2  Heterozygous: means you have one copy of either the 677 mutation, or the 1298 mutation, plus a normal one from the other parent. 1 Heterozygous: means you have one copy of either the 677 mutation, or the 1298 mutation, plus a normal one from the other parent. 2  Compound Heterozygous: means you have one copy of the 677 mutation from one parent and one copy of the 1298 mutation
I have the MTHFR gene mutation C677T. It is heterozygous. My homocysteine levels are normal. I had my folic acid and B12 levels also tested and they also came back normal (folic acid was 46 pmol/L – normal values according to lab range from 7 to 36; B12 was 416 pmol/L – normal values are 156-672). 1 If you test positive, read on, if you test negative, stick to recommended dose of 800 micrograms of folic acid per day. 2  If you tested positive for MTHFR gene polymorphism you will need follow the treatment for MTHFR mutation: start taking 1-5 mg of folic acid a day. 3  Methylated form is best (5-MTHF).
anencephaly-associated with the MTHFR gene. Several variations (polymorphisms) in the MTHFR gene have been associated with an increased risk of neural tube defects, a group of birth defects that occur during the development of the brain and spinal cord. Anencephaly is one of the most common types of neural tube defect. other disorders-increased risk from variations of the MTHFR gene. Polymorphisms in the MTHFR MTHFR gene has also been suggested as a risk factor for cleft lip and palate, a birth defect in which there is a split in the upper lip and an opening in the roof of the mouth.
More than one mutation of the MTHFR gene. Genes are passed down by your mother and your father. Most literature states there are a good 40-50 different mutations of this important gene which could be passed down by one, or both or your parents. 1 Heterozygous: means you have one copy of either the 677 mutation, or the 1298 mutation, plus a normal one from the other parent. 2  Compound Heterozygous: means you have one copy of the 677 mutation from one parent and one copy of the 1298 mutation