If you want to receive calls on your mobile phone and on Skype, you need to get yourself a phone number from Skype. It costs $60 a year, that is $5 a month. It is called an online number, which you can get from there.
Tip. 1  Log in to Skype and select the “Skype To Go Number” tab to see a complete list of your Skype To Go contacts, including their names, locations and Skype To Go phone numbers. 2  You can register up to nine different Skype To Go contacts and 20 different phone numbers to call your contacts from.
1 Log in to Skype and select the “Skype To Go Number” tab to see a complete list of your Skype To Go contacts, including their names, locations and Skype To Go phone numbers. 2  You can register up to nine different Skype To Go contacts and 20 different phone numbers to call your contacts from.
When you do make a call from Skype to a landline or cell phone, calling is easy. On a PC, you just click on the Call Phones icon in your Skype client, select the flag of the country you’re calling, and type in the number. It’s just as easy on a Mac, if you’re using Windows 8, or if you’re on a mobile device.
Report Abuse. Once you have downloaded and installed Skype, go to skype.com on your web browser, and then go to their skype-in service (they also have skype-out, where you can call landline phones via skype application). There, you select an area code and you will be given a phone number.
If you purchase Skype Credits, you can call to landlines at a very low per/minute rate. If you purchase Skype Unlimited USA/Canada service, it only cost $2.95/month for unlimited USA/Canda calling from Skype to land phones.
You can also get a landline number and when someone rings you on that landline it comes through to you on Skype. This is great as you can pick up calls anywhere in the world and it means you can have a second line without having to get another one installed, really useful if you work from home.
A Skype number is a number people can call from mobiles and landlines, and you pick up on Skype. When someone calls your Skype number, your Skype rings just as it does when you receive a Skype-to-Skype call. The caller’s phone number is identified on your screen, and you just click to start talking.
Although using VoIP software Skype to make free PC to PC calls is useful, you can also use Skype to make inexpensive landline calls. Although rates vary from place to place, if you are looking to make Skype your primary phone service, this is a great feature you can use to call people with traditional phone service.