During the winter, snowshoe hares are white, which helps them blend in with the snow. When the seasons change to spring and summer, snowshoe hares turn a reddish-brown. This color helps them camouflage with dirt and rocks. Not every part of the snowshoe hare changes color throughout the year. Genus: Lepus Species: americanus. Description: Snowshoe hares make their home in dense coniferous forests. Within the United States, most of the coniferous forests are found on mountaintops, such as the Rockies, or near the Canadian border. Snowshoe hares can be seen foraging among the brush.
Snowshoe hares are nocturnal, so look for them at dawn and dusk. Habitat and Range: Snowshoe hares live in the coniferous and boreal forests of the Rocky Mountains, the Appalachian Mountains, the Pacific Northwest, New England, Alaska, Minnesota, Michigan, and Montana. Genus: Lepus Species: americanus. Description: Snowshoe hares make their home in dense coniferous forests. Within the United States, most of the coniferous forests are found on mountaintops, such as the Rockies, or near the Canadian border. Snowshoe hares can be seen foraging among the brush.
Note the large feet.- US Fish and Wildlife (public domain). Snowshoe Hare in winter white-NPS (public domain). Snowshoe Hares live in Connecticut. They have brown fur on top with white underbellies in the summer. They molt to a coat of white fur in the winter. This gives them one of their common names, the Varying Hare. 
The Snowshoe Hares or Rabbits (as often called) live in the snow covered northern forests of Canada and the Northern areas of the United States of America as well as Greenland … . Between 1 percent and 40 percent of snowshoe hares survive each year; the rate varies with the 10-year population cycle. Although snowshoe hares can live to six years old, very few survive that long; they are extremely lucky if they make it to their second summer of breeding.
The snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus), also called the varying hare, or snowshoe rabbit, is a species of hare found in North America. It has the name snowshoe because of the large size of its hind feet and the marks its tail leaves. The animal's feet prevent it from sinking into the snow when it hops and walks. The snowshoe hare may have up to four litters in a year which average three to eight young.
Hares and jackrabbits are leporids belonging to the genus Lepus. Hares are classified into the same family as rabbits and are of similar size, form, and diet as rabbits. They are generally herbivorous, long-eared, and fast runners, and typically live solitarily or in pairs. Hare species are native to Africa, Eurasia, North America, and the Japanese archipelago. Five leporid species with hare in their common names are not considered true hares: the hispid hare (Caprolagus hispidus), and four species known as red rock hares (comprising Pronolagus). Meanwhile, jackrabbits are hares rather than rabbits.
Snowshoe hares range in length from 413 to 518 mm, of which 39 to 52 mm are tail. The hind foot, long and wide, measures 117 to 147 mm in length. The ears are 62 to 70 mm from base to tip. Snowshoe hares usually weigh between 1.43 and 1.55 kg. Males are slightly smaller than females, as is typical for members of the rabbit family. In the summer, the coat is a rusty or grayish brown, with a blackish line down the middle of the back, buffy sides and a white belly. Snowshoe hares are typically solitary, but they often live near many other hares, and individuals share overlapping home ranges. They are active at low light levels and so are most often seen out and about at dawn, dusk, and during the night.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Snowshoe Hares or Rabbits (as often called) live in the snow covered northern forests of Canada and the Northern areas of the United States of America as well as Greenland. Between 1 percent and 40 percent of snowshoe hares survive each year; the rate varies with the 10-year population cycle. Although snowshoe hares can live to six years old, very few survive that long; they are extremely lucky if they make it to their second summer of breeding. The snowshoe hare is the most important small game animal in Canada