Saxophone is an instrument, usually made of brass but classified as a woodwind instrument since it has an similar sound production system with the Clarinet (a single-reed mout … hpiece). 1 person found this useful. Woodwinds are the  instruments that are usually played with a reed and is made of  wood, like a clarinet, sax, bassoon, and fl … ute(even though it isnt  made of wood or has a reed) there are many others such as bass  clarinet, tenor sax, contrabass clarinet, bari sax etc. Answered. In Entertainment & Arts.
What a flute is made of depends on the type of flute. Most flutes are made of metal, and these are the ones you'll see used in an orchestra. But there are bamboo and other woo … den flutes. Additionally, the recorder, a type of flute, is made of plastic and is commonly available (as are other plastic flutes). Sometimes, the mouthpiece/head joint (or both) is made from a better material such as silver, giving the flute a nicer tone. The rest of the flute would usually be silver-plated. A cheaper flute would be made from a material such as nickle. It may then be coated with silver, again adding to the quality of the tone
Most student flutes are made of silver-plated metal such as yellow brass, which is 70% copper and 30% zinc. Silver-plating gives the flute a more mellow sound. Most professionals play on solid silver flutes (silver content 92.5%) although some, like James Galway, play on flutes made of other metals. The rest of the flute is made from two pieces of tube with a constant bore. It takes more than 150 pillars, rods, keys, rollers and springs to make a flute. Three pieces are taken from a length of metal tube. The holes are cut and the metal around each hole is pulled up to form a chimney.
The material from which a flute is made greatly alters the sound which is produced. Wooden flutes produce a dark sound. Silver flutes produce a bright sound. The thickness of the metal used to make a flute also alters the sound it makes, as well as changing the weight of the instrument. Some flutes are played by blowing air into a mouthpiece, which directs the air against the edge of a hole else-where in the flute. These instruments, known as whistle flutes, include the tubular recorder and the globular ocarina. Other flutes are played by blowing air directly against the edge of the hole.
Flute. A flute is a musical instrument that produces sound when a stream of air is directed against the edge of a hole, causing the air within the body of the instrument to vibrate. Some flutes are played by blowing air into a mouthpiece, which directs the air against the edge of a hole else-where in the flute. These instruments, known as whistle flutes, include the tubular recorder and the globular ocarina. Other flutes are played by blowing air directly against the edge of the hole.
Beginner's flutes are normally made of nickel, silver or brass that is silver plated, while professionals use solid silver, gold, and sometimes platinum instruments. There are also modern wooden bodies instruments usually with silver or gold keywork. The oldest flute ever discovered may be a fragment of the femur of a juvenile cave bear, with two to four holes, found at Divje Babe in Slovenia and dated to about 43,000 years ago. However, this has been disputed.
Background. A flute is a musical instrument that produces sound when a stream of air is directed against the edge of a hole, causing the air within the body of the instrument to vibrate. Most flutes are tubular, but some are globular or other shapes. Some flutes are played by blowing air into a mouthpiece, which directs the air against the edge of a hole else-where in the flute. These instruments, known as whistle flutes, include the tubular recorder and the globular ocarina. Other flutes are played by blowing air directly against the edge of the hole.
Student flutes are usually made of Nickle plated Copper or something to that extent. Professional flutes, such as open hole flutes, are usually made of sterling silver or gold. It is also quite common for flutes to be silver plated and not throughly sterling silver. It is also common to have just the mouth pieces made of gold while the body and foot joint are silver. Sometimes, the mouthpiece/head joint (or both) is made from a better material such as silver, giving the flute a nicer tone. The rest of the flute would usually be silver-plated. A cheaper flute would be made from a material such as nickle. It may then be coated with silver, again adding to the quality of the tone