Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: A molecule is the smallest particle in a chemical element or compound that has the chemical properties of that element or compound. Molecules are made up of atom s that are held together by chemical bonds. 
A molecule of water is made of the the elements Hydrogen and Oxygen-two atoms of Hydrogen combined with one atom of oxygen. Sugar (C12H22O11) is made up of 12 carbon atoms, 22 hydrogen atoms and 11 oxygen atoms. Many elements in particular the gases occur naturally as molecules e.g. Molecules may be … made up of atoms of the same element such as Hydrogen gas (H2 - two atoms of Hydrogen), or atoms of different elements such as Sodium Chloride (NaCl).
They can even be made up of just one atom. The element argon is a one-atom molecule. Other molecules can consist of two atoms of the same element. The oxygen molecule is made up of two oxygen atoms bonded together. However, in certain circumstances, three oxygen atoms bond together, forming a molecule called ozone. FIND OUT MORE. Most atoms join up with other atoms through chemical BONDS to form larger particles called molecules. They can join up with atoms of the same element or with atoms of different elements. Substances whose molecules contain different types of atom are called compounds.
A pure substance consists of a single element or compound. Iron is formed only of iron (Fe) atoms; table salt is formed only of sodium chloride (NaCl) molecules. A mixture, however, is made up of different compounds and/or elements. When salt is added to water to make saltwater, it becomes a mixture.
A molecule is the smallest part of an element or compound that can exist independently. Molecules may be … made up of atoms of the same element such as Hydrogen gas (H2 - two atoms of Hydrogen), or atoms of different elements such as Sodium Chloride (NaCl).
Water, is one oxygen atom bonded to two different hydrogen atoms, H 2 O. When atoms are bonded together, (H 2, O 2, H 2 O etc.) we call the total structure a molecule. Hydrogen atoms and oxygen atoms are found in many different molecules, and these different molecules make up, solids, liquids, and gasses. Whether a material is a solid, liquid, or gas depends on how these molecules (made up of atoms) interact with each other.
Atoms are so small that there are millions and billions and trillions in the tiniest speck you can see. Solids, liquids, gases-all matter-are made up of atoms (or other things, like molecules, that are made from atoms)! ELEMENTS are the kinds of atoms that we can have. Carbon is an element, hydrogen is an element, and so is oxygen. (We can call them by their names, or by their symbols-C for carbon, H for hydrogen, and O for oxygen.) All the elements are listed out in a periodic table. If it's in the table, it's an element! 
This is because they are all made up of different types of molecules. Molecules are not only made up of different types of atoms but also different ratios. Like in the water example above, a water molecule has 2 hydrogen atoms and 1 oxygen atom. You are actually made up of trillions and trillions of different types of molecules. Compounds. When atoms of different types of elements join together, they make molecules called compounds. Water consists of compound molecules made up of 2 hydrogen atoms and 1 oxygen atom. This is why it's called H 2 O. Water will always have 2 times the number of hydrogen atoms as oxygen atoms
A molecule may be homonuclear, that is, it consists of atoms of a single chemical element, as with oxygen (O 2); or it may be heteronuclear, a chemical compound composed of more than one element, as with water (H 2 O). 