Cranial Release Technique (CRT) is a natural, hands-on approach to releasing the body’s inborn capacity to heal and regenerate itself. CRT can be applied in only minutes, yet it has profound effects on overall health and well-being. 1 The “Global Release” provided by the Cranial Release Technique has very far reaching positive effects on overall body function. 2  This is due to the extent of tissues and structures involved. 3  This overall “Release” of cranial and body structure can be accomplished in just minutes using the targeted CRT approach.
Torque Release Technique (TRT)Spinal Torque and Structural CorrectionThe bones of the spine house the spinal cord. The spinal cord has a loose covering called the “Meninges”. The outer layer, the Dura Mater is a tough and non-stretchy robust membrane that attaches to the spine in only a few key places. 
However, the Release technique applies its educative goals through dance and mainly for dance. Therefore, it has common features of method and function with traditional dance techniques and this might be why its popular name refers to the practice in that way. Principles associated to the Release Technique: - Use of images (associative concepts or idealizations of physical actions) to produce or awaken new kinesthetic experiences and awareness.
Active release technique (ART) is a soft tissue system/movement-based technique developed and patented by P. Michael Leahy. It claims to treat problems with muscles, tendons, ligaments, fascia and nerves. There is little evidence to support its efficacy. The technique is advocated largely by chiropractors. 
Email*. For over fifty years, releasing (the Release Technique) has proven to be a powerful, unique, simple, and very practical tool that will dramatically improve the quality of your life. 1 The Release Technique is not a fly by night, flash in the pan. 2  It’s been around for almost 60 Years. 3  And just like Lester Levenson and Larry Crane (along with thousands and thousands of other people just like you) discovered, you can also change your life for the better, right now. 4  Don’t take our word for it.
In that sense, the Release technique should be understood differently, because it seems to have evolved from a collective spirit, it can not be attributed in history to a unique figure and it does not have fixed choreographic shapes through which it can be identified. Principles associated to the Release Technique: - Use of images (associative concepts or idealizations of physical actions) to produce or awaken new kinesthetic experiences and awareness.
Introduction. Active Release Technique® (ART®) is a patented soft tissue technique that treats problems with muscles, tendons, ligaments, fascia (connective tissue), and nerves. A multitude of musculoskeletal conditions can benefit from ART®. What makes Active Release Technique® (ART®) different from other techniques. The difference between ART® and other techniques is that during an ART® treatment, the patient actively moves the affected structure (muscle or ligament) while the practitioner presses or maintains contact on the injured area.
It is said that it should not be considered as a ‘technique’, because this word is commonly used by dancers to name training systems that have defined choreographic vocabularies and make part of the aesthetical project of a unique choreographer. Principles associated to the Release Technique: - Use of images (associative concepts or idealizations of physical actions) to produce or awaken new kinesthetic experiences and awareness.