4. Contact lenses can get permanently stuck to my eye. While it's true that a soft contact lens can stick to the surface of your eye if it dries out, remoistening the lens by applying sterile saline or a multipurpose contact lens solution will get it moving again. A contact lens will get lost behind my eye. Nope! A thin membrane called the conjunctiva covers the white of your eye and connects to the inside of your eyelids, making it impossible for a contact lens to get lost behind your eye.
I can't wear contact lenses. Yes, you can! Thanks to advances in contact lens technology in recent years, just about everyone can wear contacts. For example, there are now bifocal contact lenses for people with presbyopia, and toric soft lenses that correct astigmatism. A contact lens will get lost behind my eye. Nope! A thin membrane called the conjunctiva covers the white of your eye and connects to the inside of your eyelids, making it impossible for a contact lens to get lost behind your eye.
There is no age limit: babies can wear them, and so can seniors. Many eye care professionals begin to encourage contact lens wear at age 11 to 14. The real issue for teens is not age, but whether they are responsible enough to wear and care for contact lenses properly. Make sure you discuss with your eye doctor what you can do to replace a contact lens that has been torn, damaged or lost. If you wear disposable contacts, you don't have the expense or inconvenience of worrying about a replacement because you'll already have a supply of lenses on hand.
3. Contact lenses are uncomfortable. Not true. After a brief adaptation period, most people don't even notice they're wearing contact lenses. For those who do experience contact lens discomfort, several remedies are available once the cause is pinpointed. A contact lens will get lost behind my eye. Nope! A thin membrane called the conjunctiva covers the white of your eye and connects to the inside of your eyelids, making it impossible for a contact lens to get lost behind your eye.
If bifocal contact lenses will not work for you, your doctor may recommend monovision. With monovision, you wear a contact lens that corrects for near vision in one eye and a lens that corrects for distance vision in the other eye. Many people who try monovision can adjust to it. Monovision has some drawbacks, though. Many people have problems with their contacts because they don't follow instructions on wearing time, disinfection, and other cleaning and care practices. For best results and to protect your eye health, follow all instructions closely. Daily disposable lenses are the safest soft contact lenses for your eyes.
Improvements in contact lenses have made them more comfortable and easier to wear. Millions of people wear contact lenses, and most wear soft lenses. For these people, contact lenses offer a relatively safe and effective way of correcting vision problems. Several types of hard and soft contact lenses are available. Many people have problems with their contacts because they don't follow instructions on wearing time, disinfection, and other cleaning and care practices. For best results and to protect your eye health, follow all instructions closely. Daily disposable lenses are the safest soft contact lenses for your eyes.
If you're out of contact lens solution, you might be tempted to rinse your lenses with tap water. Don't do it! Water sometimes has microbes that can cause serious eye infections. Don't even wear contacts in the shower. And never put your lenses into your mouth or use saliva to wet them. Use your index finger to slide the lens out of the package or case and into the palm of your hand. Rinse it with the solution recommended by your eye doctor. Place the lens on the tip of your index finger. Pull your lower lid down with the middle finger of the same hand and hold your upper lid with your other hand.
Soft contact lenses conform to the shape of your eye. They're comfortable and tend to stay in place well, so they're a good choice if you participate in sports or lead an active lifestyle. Soft contact lenses come in various types, such as: 1  Daily wear. 1 Daily wear soft contact lenses are typically the least expensive option. 2  You wear the lenses during the day, and remove them each night to be cleaned and disinfected. 3  How long you can use a single pair of daily wear lenses varies depending on the manufacturer. 4  Extended wear.
That's why it's important not to shower or swim with your contact lenses in, she says (plus swimming in your contact lenses ups the chances of them coming out of your eye). In addition, you should never use water in place of solution for storing your contact lenses. Shutterstock. If you're one of the 36 million contact lens wearers in the U.S., chances are you went through a mini-course in hygiene when you first got your prescription. You know the drill: First wash your hands with soap and water before drying them with a clean, lint-free cloth or paper towel.