Report Abuse. No, Sambuca is Sambuca, it is a distilled spirit, of either grain or fruit, and has added to it sugar and essence of aniseed. Being that vodka is, generally, a clear, unaged spirit that can come flavored, they are similar. However, Sambuca is among a number of anise flavored spirits like Raki, Ouzo, and Pastis. I suppose the original motivation behind the anise flavoring was to hide the defects of crude spirits in the early days of distilling, as anise has been a flavoring agent since nearly the start of distilling. Iota · 8 years ago.
Sambuca. Sambuca is an anise-flavored liqueur, produced by the infusion of witch elder bush and licorice, sweetened with sugar and enhanced with a secret combination of herbs and spices. White Sambuca is the traditional and generally the more popular variety, having a mellower licorice taste and lighter body than that of black sambuca.
Sambuca is considered to go particularly well with coffee. Like other anise liqueurs, it may be drunk after coffee as a ammazzacaffe ammazzacaffè or added directly to coffee in place of. Sugar the most iconic serving of sambuca is a shot with seven coffee, beans representing The seven hills Of. rome It may also be served on the rocks or with water, resulting in the ouzo effect from the anethole in the anise. Sambuca is considered to go particularly well with coffee. Like other anise liqueurs, it may be drunk after coffee as a ammazzacaffe ammazzacaffè or added directly to coffee in place of. sugar
Sambuca is flavoured with essential oils obtained from anise, star anise, liquorice and other spices. It also contains elderflowers. The oils are added to pure alcohol, a concentrated solution of sugar, and other flavouring. It may also be served on the rocks or with water, resulting in the ouzo effect from the anethole in the anise. Sambuca is considered to go particularly well with coffee. Like other anise liqueurs, it may be drunk after coffee as a ammazzacaffe ammazzacaffè or added directly to coffee in place of. sugar
The Greek word Sambuca was first used as the name of another elderberry liquor that was created in Civitavecchia about 130 years ago. The first commercial version of such a drink started at the end of 1800 in Civitavecchia, where Luigi Manzi sold Sambuca Manzi. It may also be served on the rocks or with water, resulting in the ouzo effect from the anethole in the anise. Sambuca is considered to go particularly well with coffee. Like other anise liqueurs, it may be drunk after coffee as a ammazzacaffe ammazzacaffè or added directly to coffee in place of. sugar
AGE: N/A. PRICE : $28.99 750ML. Note: There are a few different types of sambuca out there. The first is Sambuca Agrumi a mix of Star anise and citrus, second is Stellato a 100% star anise variety, and the third is Liquirizia which is a star anise and licorice mix. 
The most iconic serving of sambuca is a shot with seven coffee beans, representing the Seven hills of Rome. Likewise, a shot with one coffee bean, called con la mosca, which means with the fly, is as common. It may also be served on the rocks or with water, resulting in the ouzo effect from the anethole in the anise. Sambuca is considered to go particularly well with coffee. Like other anise liqueurs, it may be drunk after coffee as a ammazzacaffe ammazzacaffè or added directly to coffee in place of. sugar
While there are numerous kinds of sambuca available, though the most common available in America (Romana Sambuca) is 42% alcohol by volume or 84 proof. The Romana Black Sambuca is slightly less potent at 40% ABV or 80 proof. There are also red and gold sambuca. 1 Sambuca Romana Jam Sambuca is an anise-flavored liquor from Italy. 2  It is usually colorless, which is called white sambuca, but it also comes in a deep blue color called black sambuca, and a bri…. 3  Simple Sambuca Recipes for Any Dinner Party Sambuca is a colorless Italian liqueur with a strong anise flavor.
Sambuca is an Italian liqueur flavored with aniseed that is most often found in clear or “white” form. Other varieties are deep blue in color, referred to as black Sambuca, and bright red, red Sambuca. Black Sambuca usually has a hit of lemon zest flavoring along with the anise. Sambuca con mosca (neat with coffee beans floated atop) is a common Italian way of serving Sambuca. Flaming Sambuca is also interesting and eye catching as there really is nothing like setting alcohol on fire before throwing it down the gullet. Black Widow.