vs. Cordys Business Operations Platform. Interoperability (pronounced IHN-tuhr-AHP-uhr-uh-BIHL-ih-tee) is the ability of a system or a product to work with other systems or products without special effort on the part of the customer. Compatibility is a related term. A product is compatible with a standard but interoperable with other products that meet the same standard (or achieve interoperability through a broker).
Interoperability is the ability of different information technology systems and software applications to communicate, to exchange data accurately, effectively, and consistently, and to use the information that has been exchanged. Is defined as the ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and to use the information that has been exchanged. Learn more in: BIM and Interoperability for Cultural Heritage through ICT. 21.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. In the National Incident Management System, interoperability is the ability of emergency management/response personnel to interact and work well together. It requires nongovernmental and private sector organizations to purchase standardized communications equipment. 
Interoperability is the ability of two or more applications or components to exchange information together. Thus, interoperable applications and components may be connected together or be able to read the same data formats. Standardization leads to a greater interoperability of applications and components. Is defined as the ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and to use the information that has been exchanged. Learn more in: BIM and Interoperability for Cultural Heritage through ICT. 21.
In the context of information technology, interoperability is the ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and to use the information that has been exchanged. Learn more in: Improving Access to Government Information with Open Standards for Document Formats. Is defined as the ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and to use the information that has been exchanged. Learn more in: BIM and Interoperability for Cultural Heritage through ICT. 21.
Definition of INTEROPERABILITY. : ability of a system (as a weapons system) to work with or use the parts or equipment of another system. — in·ter·op·er·a·ble \-ˈae-ˈä(p-)ə-rə\ bəl. ADJECTIVE. advertisement : ability of a system (as a weapons system) to work with or use the parts or equipment of another system. — in·ter·op·er·a·ble \-ˈae-ˈä(p-)ə-rə\ bəl. adjective
Interoperability is a property of a product or system, whose interfaces are completely understood, to work with other products or systems, present or future, without any restricted access or implementation. Contents. XML or SQL standards are among the tools of syntactic interoperability. This is also true for lower-level data formats, such as ensuring alphabetical characters are stored in a same variation of ASCII or a Unicode format (for English or international text) in all the communicating systems.
Interoperability defined Interoperability refers to a healthcare systems ability to connect with other systems. Basic interoperability is the sharing of data. Advanced interoperability includes the uniform presentation of healthcare data, uniform user controls, and uniform protection of patient confidentiality. 
A complex health care system requires diverse electronic health record (. ) products. Interoperability refers to the architecture or standards that make it possible for diverse. systems to work compatibly in a true information network. 
Interoperability means the ability of health information systems to work together within and across organizational boundaries in order to advance the effective delivery of healthcare for individuals and communities. XML or SQL standards are among the tools of syntactic interoperability. This is also true for lower-level data formats, such as ensuring alphabetical characters are stored in a same variation of ASCII or a Unicode format (for English or international text) in all the communicating systems.