Rafiki. You stick ur two fingers in your own ass and then whipe it on the forehead of your partner and say Simba in a way similar to the scene at the beginning of lion king where rafiki whipes the fruit on simbas forehead before exposing him to the kingdom. Matias: Dude, Mike! I just gave Jon Montgomery a Rafiki! 
Rafiki means friend in Swahili. This captures the vision and purpose of the Foundation—to befriend orphans and widows in their distress (James 1:27). To accomplish this mission, Rafiki established Training Villages within ten African countries. These Villages provide orphan care, Bible study, classical Christian education, and teacher training through Rafiki’s five programs: ChildCare, Education, Rafiki Bible Study, Advanced Learning, and Widows. 
Old but spry, Rafiki is tall in stature and thinly built, composed of lanky limbs and a hunched back. His main pelt is scruffy and blue-gray in color, while his chest is pale gray. Both his hands and his feet are coated in black fur, his palms a pinkish-brown, and his muzzle matches his palms in color. Rafiki asks Simba who he is, and Simba admits that he himself is no longer so sure. Rafiki says that he knows who Simba is but that it's a secret. When Simba comes near him, Rafiki chants his song in the young lion's ear. Simba snarls and asks him what it even means. Rafiki explains that the song is about Simba being a baboon while Rafiki is not
1 Rafiki is animated by James Baxter in The Lion King and Alexs Stadermann in The Lion King 1½ 2  . Rafiki is referred to as a baboon, but he is really a hybrid between a mandrill and a baboon. 3  Rafiki used to be named Kwashi. 4  In early drafts of the film, Rafiki was a cheetah instead of a mandrill. Rafiki asks Simba who he is, and Simba admits that he himself is no longer so sure. Rafiki says that he knows who Simba is but that it's a secret. When Simba comes near him, Rafiki chants his song in the young lion's ear. Simba snarls and asks him what it even means. Rafiki explains that the song is about Simba being a baboon while Rafiki is not
Physical attributes. Rafiki is a mutated mandrill with a long, bent tail, although he is often referred to as a baboon in the movies. He is an old mandrill with a bald head and white hair. His fur is gray and his underbelly is white. Rafiki's role is expanded in the musical. She sings the song Circle of Life and her painting scene is extended. She also sings a song called Rafiki Mourns, in which she mourns Mufasa's death. She also has a brief role in Nala's song Shadowland, blessing Nala for her journey to find help.
—Rafiki, talking to Simba. Rafiki is a friend of the royal family of the Pride Lands. He performs activities similar to that of a shaman, such as presenting young cubs atop Pride Rock to the animals, counseling the royal family and keeping in touch with the Great Kings of the Past. He lives in a giant baobab tree in the Pride Lands. Rafiki's role is expanded in the musical. She sings the song Circle of Life and her painting scene is extended. She also sings a song called Rafiki Mourns, in which she mourns Mufasa's death. She also has a brief role in Nala's song Shadowland, blessing Nala for her journey to find help.
Rafiki in The Lion King. Rafiki's character often serves as the visual narrator of the story of The Lion King. He is shown to be a dear friend to Mufasa. He presents newborn cubs to all the animals gathered at Pride Rock, and draws a stylized lion cub on the walls of his treehouse home to represent Simba 's birth. Rafiki appears briefly in the midquel The Lion King 1½ , and is referred to by Timon simply as The Monkey . He is first seen briefly after Timon leaves his meerkat colony in search of a better life away from predators and free of tunnel digging.
Though referred to as a baboon, Rafiki is modeled after a mandrill, bearing the same general coloration and markings as the rest of the species. However, unlike most mandrills, Rafiki has a long tail and lacks a distinctive crested head. Rafiki asks Simba who he is, and Simba admits that he himself is no longer so sure. Rafiki says that he knows who Simba is but that it's a secret. When Simba comes near him, Rafiki chants his song in the young lion's ear. Simba snarls and asks him what it even means. Rafiki explains that the song is about Simba being a baboon while Rafiki is not
Rafiki lives in a baobab tree and is old and wise. His tail looks broken and bent and his name means friend in Swahili. It is revealed in the storybook A Tale of Two Brothers that Rafiki wasn't always a resident of the Pride Lands. Years before Simba and Mufasa's reign, Rafiki was a traveler studying the African lands who eventually stumbled upon the Pride Lands, where he was attacked by a young Shenzi, Banzai and Ed. Rafiki appears briefly in the midquel The Lion King 1½ , and is referred to by Timon simply as The Monkey . He is first seen briefly after Timon leaves his meerkat colony in search of a better life away from predators and free of tunnel digging.