But as long as you have the virus, you can spread it to others. It's caused by the hepatitis B virus. It is spread through contact with the blood and body fluids of an infected person. You may get hepatitis B if you: 1  Have sex with an infected person without using a condom. 2  Share needles (used for injecting drugs) with an infected person. 3  Get a tattoo or piercing with tools that weren't sterilized
1 Hepatitis B is a viral infection that attacks the liver and can cause both acute and chronic disease. 2  The virus is transmitted through contact with the blood or other body fluids of an infected person. Hepatitis B is a potentially life-threatening liver infection caused by the hepatitis B virus. It is a major global health problem. It can cause chronic infection and puts people at high risk of death from cirrhosis and liver cancer. A vaccine against hepatitis B has been available since 1982.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Hepatitis B is a liver infection caused by the Hepatitis B virus (HBV). Hepatitis B is transmitted when blood, semen, or another body fluid from a person infected with the Hepatitis B virus enters the body of someone who is not infected. This can happen through sexual contact; sharing needles, syringes, or other drug-injection equipment; or from mother to baby at birth
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is transmitted through exposure to infective blood, semen, and other body fluids. HBV can be transmitted from infected mothers to infants at the time of birth or from family member to infant in early childhood. 
Acute hepatitis B is a short-term infection with the hepatitis B virus. Symptoms usually last several weeks but they can last up to 6 months. The infection sometimes clears up because your body is able to fight off the infection and get rid of the virus. Chronic hepatitis B is a long-lasting infection with the hepatitis B virus. Chronic hepatitis B occurs when the body can't get rid of the hepatitis B virus. Children, especially infants, are more likely to get chronic hepatitis B, which usually has no symptoms until signs of liver damage appear.
Hepatitis B is an infectious disease caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV) which affects the liver. Acute infection with hepatitis B virus is associated with acute viral hepatitis – an illness that begins with general ill-health, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, body aches, mild fever, and dark urine, and then progresses to development of jaundice.
The liver. Hepatitis B is a serious liver infection caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). For some people, hepatitis B infection becomes chronic, meaning it lasts more than six months. 
Hepatitis B infection is caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). The virus is passed from person to person through blood, semen or other body fluids. Common ways HBV is transmitted include: 1  Sexual contact. 2  You may become infected if you have unprotected sex with an infected partner whose blood, saliva, semen or vaginal secretions enter your body. 3  Sharing of needles. 4  HBV is easily transmitted through needles and syringes contaminated with infected blood
Hepatitis B is an infectious hepatitis caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). This infection has two possible phases; 1) acute and 2) chronic. 1  Acute hepatitis B refers to newly acquired infections. 2  Affected individuals notice symptoms approximately 1 to 4 months after exposure to the virus. 