Brotherton Meaning: one who came from Brotherton (Brodor's or Brother's homestead), in Suffolk.
You can use census records and voter lists to see where families with the De brotherton surname lived over the years. While the questions in census records vary from place to place, and year to year, you can generally find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, occupations, etc.
This is a famous old locational surname from a village near Pontefract in Yorkshire. The village is first recorded in 1030 as 'Broodertun', and it does appear as if the name literally translates as 'The brothers farm'. Whether this refers to a farm owned by a person called 'Brother', or whether it refers to such a place worked by 'brothers' from a religious order is not clear.
Brotherton Name Meaning. English: habitational name from either of two places called Brotherton, in North Yorkshire and Suffolk; both are named with Old English broðor ‘brother’ or the Old Scandinavian personal name Broðir + Bróðir Old english ‘tun’, ‘farmstead’. enclosure
Click on a place to view Brotherton immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Brotherton families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
Welcome to the Brotherton Family page at Surname Finder, a service of Genealogy Today. Our editors have compiled this checklist of genealogical resources, combining links to commercial databases along with user-contributed information and web sites for the Brotherton surname.
Origins of the Brotherton Surname. It is quite possible for two people with the Brotherton last name to have been given that surname for entirely different reasons. Discovering the country from which your Brotherton ancestors originated can often yield additional clues for the meaning of the surname.