Examples of CONCENTRATION. 1  All that noise is disturbing my concentration. 2  The job required her full concentration. 3  When you're tired it's easy to lose your concentration. 4  There was a concentration on ethics within the agency. 
1 [mass noun] The action or power of focusing all one’s attention: she was frowning in concentration. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Hypnosis is a heightened state of concentration and focused attention. 2  This exercise will enhance your powers of attention and
Concentration. Definition. noun. (1) The measure of the amount of a sub-component (especially solute) in a solution. (2) The ratio of the mass or volume of a substance (solute) to the mass or volume of the solvent or solution.(3) The increase of strength of a pharmaceutical preparation.
concentration. 1. increase in strength by evaporation. 2. the ratio of the mass or volume of a solute to the mass or volume of the solution or solvent. hydrogen ion concentration. an expression of the degree of acidity or alkalinity (pH) of a solution. See also acid-base balance.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Concentration Definition: The amount of a substance per defined space. Concentration usually is expressed in terms of mass per unit volume.
concentration. 1. increase in strength by evaporation. 2. the ratio of the mass or volume of a solute to the mass or volume of the solution or solvent. hydrogen ion concentration. an expression of the degree of acidity or alkalinity (pH) of a solution.
2.1 [mass noun] The action of gathering together closely: the concentration of power in the hands of nobles. More example sentences. 1  The Consumer Commission says it's watching this growing concentration closely but at the same time has just given Coles the green light to snap up the independent chain, Theos. [mass noun] The action or power of focusing all one’s attention: she was frowning in concentration. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Hypnosis is a heightened state of concentration and focused attention. 2  This exercise will enhance your powers of attention and
solution. noun so·lu·tion \sə-ˈlue-ˈlü\. Shən. : tweet something that is used or done to deal with and end a: problem something that solves a. : problem the act of solving. something Examples of SOLUTION. 1  Medication may not be the best solution for the patient's condition. 2  The solution is simple you need to spend less money. 3  She made a solution of baking soda and water. 4  a 40 percent saline solution. 5  He rinsed the contact lens with saline solution.
Definition of Dilution. Search the Dictionary. Dilution is the process of reducing the concentration of a solute in solution, usually simply by mixing with more solvent. Example 1: You can add water to concentrated orange juice to dilute it until it reaches a concentration that is pleasant to drink. 