Definition of Experimental Probability. Experimental probability of an event is the ratio of the number of times the event occurs to the total number of trials.
In general usage, design of experiments (DOE) or experimental design is the design of any information-gathering exercises where variation is present, whether under the full control of the experimenter or not. However, in statistics, these terms are usually used for controlled experiments. The use of a sequence of experiments, where the design of each may depend on the results of previous experiments, including the possible decision to stop experimenting, is within the scope of Sequential analysis, a field that was pioneered by Abraham Wald in the context of sequential tests of statistical hypotheses.
Experimental probability refers to the probability of an event occurring when an experiment was conducted. Don't miss these related articles: 
Experiment. An experiment is a controlled study in which the researcher attempts to understand cause-and-effect relationships. The study is controlled in the sense that the researcher controls (1) how subjects are assigned to groups and (2) which treatments each group receives. In the analysis phase, the researcher compares group scores on some dependent variable.
A coin toss has all the attributes of a statistical experiment. There is more than one possible outcome. We can specify each possible outcome in advance-heads or tails. And there is an element of chance. We cannot know the outcome until we actually flip the coin.
Definition of an “Experiment” in Probability. up vote 4 down vote favorite. One can define the fundamental concepts of probability theory (such as a probability measure, random variable, etc) in a purely axiomatic manner. So I am curious if there is a general definition of an experiment (or if it something really best regarded more as an explanatory construct). To try to define an experiment as a type of function seems difficult to me b/c it would require the notion of a random function of some type.
Statistical Experiment. All statistical experiments have three things in common: 1  The experiment can have more than one possible outcome. 2  Each possible outcome can be specified in advance. 3  The outcome of the experiment depends on chance. There is more than one possible outcome. We can specify each possible outcome in advance-heads or tails. And there is an element of chance. We cannot know the outcome until we actually flip the coin.
In the design of experiments, the experimenter is often interested in the effect of some process or intervention (the treatment) on some objects (the  experimental units ), which may be people, parts of people, groups of people, plants, animals, etc. The use of a sequence of experiments, where the design of each may depend on the results of previous experiments, including the possible decision to stop experimenting, is within the scope of Sequential analysis, a field that was pioneered by Abraham Wald in the context of sequential tests of statistical hypotheses.
Statistics is the study of the collection, analysis, interpretation, presentation, and organization of data. In applying statistics to, e.g., a scientific, industrial, or societal problem, it is conventional to begin with a statistical population or a statistical model process to be studied. When census data cannot be collected, statisticians collect data by developing specific experiment designs and survey samples. Representative sampling assures that inferences and conclusions can safely extend from the sample to the population as a whole.
An experiment will also have a treatment, which is the variable in an experiment that is used on an experimental group. In Emily's experiment, the treatment was the dance classes. The number of dance classes each group took was the factor, which is the degree the treatment is applied to the experimental group. An experiment will also have a treatment, which is the variable in an experiment that is used on an experimental group. In Emily's experiment, the treatment is the dance classes. Another element of an experiment i