Name : -Blockboard. Sources : -Blockboard is made up of a core of softwood strips. These strips may be up to about 25mm wide. The strips are placed edge to edge and sandwiched between veneers of hardwood. If both sides are treated in the same way blockboard and laminboard have a good resistance to warping. Name : -Laminboard. Sources : -Laminboard looks very similar to blockboard but it is made up of softwood strips, 5-7 mm in width as opposed to blockboard, which has strips of 25mm. In both cases the strips are sandwiched between two outer veneers with the grain running at right angles to the core strips. The facing veneers may be birch
Split and merge into it. Answer by Emo123987. Confidence votes 1. Blockboard is a compound wood board consisting of thick strips of softwood placed side by side and sandwiched between thick hardwood veneer panels. 
Laminboard, commonly known as Lumberboard, looks very similar to blockboard but it is made up of softwood strip and consists of considerably smaller strips to blockboard. In both cases the strips are sandwiched between two outer veneers with the grain running at right angles to the core strips. Blockboard adhesive is intended for interior use only and therefore, blockboard should not be used outdoors. When using blockboard for doors or tables, it is important to ensure that the core runs lengthways in order to achieve maximum strength. Blockboard may be used to make shelves, doors, paneling and partitions.
blockboard. Blockboard is a wood based panel, made up of a core of softwood strips glued together. The strips may be up to about 28mm wide and are placed edge to edge and sandwiched between veneers of softwood, hardwood or thin MDF or particleboard, glued under high pressure. Blockboard is used to make doors, tables, shelves, paneling and partition walls. It is normally used for interior usages, due to the type of glues used. To achieve maximum strength, it is important to ensure that the core runs lengthways.
The composition of blockboard is very different from other engineered woods such as plywood, MDF (Medium-density fibreboard) or Particle boards. It is made from solid blocks of wood at its core, sandwiched between layers of wood veneer (usually single layer of ply) on both its front and back faces. Disadvantages of Blockboard. Not as strong as plywood or good quality solid wood. The major disadvantage of blockboards is that since softwood is used in its making, it is not as strong as quality solid wood (such as teak wood) or hardwood plywood.
Image courtesy of. http://www.diydata.com. Name : -Blockboard. Sources : -Blockboard is made up of a core of softwood strips. These strips may be up to about 25mm wide. The strips are placed edge to edge and sandwiched between veneers of hardwood. The sandwich is then glued under high pressure. If both sides are treated in the same way blockboard and laminboard have a good resistance to warping. Name : -Laminboard. Sources : -Laminboard looks very similar to blockboard but it is made up of softwood strips, 5-7 mm in width as opposed to blockboard, which has strips of 25mm. In both cases the strips are sandwiched between two outer veneers with the grain running at right angles to the core strips. The facing veneers may be birch
Blockwood / Laminboard. Blockboard is made up of a core of softwood strips. The strips are placed edge to edge and sandwiched between veneers of hardwood. A single veneer on both sides is known as 3-ply. A double veneer on both sides is called 5-ply. The sandwich is then glued under high pressure. Blockboard adhesive is intended for interior use only and therefore, blockboard should not be used outdoors. When using blockboard for doors or tables, it is important to ensure that the core runs lengthways in order to achieve maximum strength. Blockboard may be used to make shelves, doors, paneling and partitions.
The internal strips are generally made of light weight poplar wood or spruce. Blockboard is used to make doors, tables, shelves, paneling and partition walls. It is normally used for interior usages, due to the type of glues used. To achieve maximum strength, it is important to ensure that the core runs lengthways.