Paget's disease of the breast or Paget disease of the breast (/ˈpaedʒɨt/ , ˈpædʒɨt rhymes with) (gadget also known As'paget s disease of the) nipple is a malignant condition that outwardly may have the appearance of, eczema with skin changes involving the nipple of the. breast Paget's disease of the breast can affect the nipple and areola. Symptoms typically only affect one breast. Symptoms may include: 1  Skin. 2  The first symptom is usually an eczema-like rash. 3  The skin of the nipple and areola may be red, itchy and inflamed.
Paget’s disease causes bones to grow too large and weak. You can have Paget’s disease in any bones in your body, but most people have it in their spine, pelvis, skull, or leg bones. The disease may affect only one bone or several bones, but it does not affect the entire skeleton. 
About Paget Disease of the Bone. Paget's disease is a chronic disorder that can result in enlarged and misshapen bones. The excessive breakdown and formation of bone tissue causes affected bone to weaken—resulting in bone pain, misshapen bones, fractures, and arthritis in the joints near the affected bones. BACKGROUND: Paget's disease is a rare skin disorder occurring in the breast (mammary) or in the groin, genital, peri-anal and axillary regions (extra-mammary). Typical treatment involves surgical excision, which in the case of extra-mammary Paget's disease, can lead to significant morbidity.
Paget's disease of bone (also termed osteitis deformans or Paget's disease of bone, pronounced /ˈpaedʒɨt/) ˈpædʒɨt is a chronic disorder that can result in enlarged and misshapen. bones Many people with Paget's disease do not know they have the disease, because they have a mild case with no symptoms. In addition, when symptoms do occur, they may be confused with those of arthritis or other disorders. In other cases, the diagnosis is made only after complications have developed.
Paget's disease facts. 1  Paget's disease is a chronic bone disorder. 2  Paget's disease frequently causes no symptoms. 3  Paget's disease can cause pain in the bones or joints, headaches and hearing loss, pressure on nerves, increased head size, bowing of limb, or curvature of spine. Paget's disease affects older skeletal bone of adults. It's estimated that 1% of adults in the U.S. have Paget's disease. There is also an extremely rare form of Paget's disease in children, referred to as juvenile Paget's disease. Paget's disease is also known as osteitis deformans.
1 Paget's disease is a chronic bone disorder. 2  Paget's disease frequently causes no symptoms. 3  Paget's disease can cause pain in the bones or joints, headaches and hearing loss, pressure on nerves, increased head size, bowing of limb, or curvature of spine. Paget's disease affects older skeletal bone of adults. It's estimated that 1% of adults in the U.S. have Paget's disease. There is also an extremely rare form of Paget's disease in children, referred to as juvenile Paget's disease. Paget's disease is also known as osteitis deformans.
Paget disease of the breast (also known as Paget disease of the nipple and mammary Paget disease) is a rare type of cancer involving the skin of the nipple and, usually, the darker circle of skin around it, which is called the areola. These other diseases are not related to Paget disease of the breast. This fact sheet discusses only Paget disease of the breast.). Malignant cells known as Paget cells are a telltale sign of Paget disease of the breast. These cells are found in the epidermis (surface layer) of the skin of the nipple an
1 Paget's disease of the nipple is an uncommon type of cancer that forms in or around the nipple and accounts for about 1% of all breast cancers. 2  Paget's disease of the nipple may be associated with an underlying breast cancer, either intraductal or invasive. 1 Symptoms of early-stage disease may include redness or crusting of the nipple skin. 2  Symptoms of more advanced disease often include tingling, itching, increased sensitivity, burning, or pain in the nipple. 3  Paget's disease of the nipple is diagnosed by performing a biopsy if a cytology specimen tests negative.
Paget's disease of bone (also termed osteitis deformans or Paget's disease of bone, pronounced /ˈpaedʒɨt/) ˈpædʒɨt is a chronic disorder that can result in enlarged and misshapen. Bones'paget s is caused by the excessive breakdown and formation of, bone followed by disorganized bone. remodeling Many people with Paget's disease do not know they have the disease, because they have a mild case with no symptoms. In addition, when symptoms do occur, they may be confused with those of arthritis or other disorders. In other cases, the diagnosis is made only after complications have developed.