The Australian aborigines are believed to have come from Asia, crossing via a series of land bridges that existed thousands of years ago. They were the original inhabitants before the Europeans arrived. DNA testing has  indicated that the Australian Aborigines originally came from the  Indian subcontinent. They are believed … to have come to Australia  via the land bridges that existed thousands of years ago but which  are now submerged. On the Wallaby.
Australia (/ɒˈstreɪliə/ , /ə-/ , colloquially /-jə/), officially the Commonwealth of Australia, is an Oceanian country comprising the mainland of the Australian continent, the island of Tasmania, and numerous smaller islands. Australia's landmass of 7,617,930 square kilometres (2,941,300 sq mi) is on the Indo-Australian Plate. Surrounded by the Indian and Pacific oceans, it is separated from Asia by the Arafura and Timor seas, with the Coral Sea lying off the Queensland coast, and the Tasman Sea lying between Australia and New Zealand.
People from all over the world came for the Australian gold rush. The most common ethnic group was the Chinese, but people also came from Canada, New Zealand, England, Ireland … , Germany, France, Greece and Italy. 90 people found this useful. Aborigines are believed to have arrived from Asia originally. However, if you are referring to the more recent settlers, their ethnic origin is, for the most part, Caucasian. In 1788 the first people (convicts and officers) arrived from England.
Before any Australians arrived in Australia, they were not Australian, each person was something different and from somewhere different. It is only the Aboriginals who are native to the land and who were always there. Most of the original settlers, who changed Australia and made Australia what it is today, were English, especially from London. A lot of ppl were exported from England and literally shipped to down under: mostly from London jails like thiefs and prostitutes but also runaway girls from abusive parents or homes where they were in service.
When British convicts were sent to Australia in the 18th and 19th centuries, they found that the island nation was already populated, but no one could figure out where these people had come from. The land was so isolated that it seemed impossible that anyone could have traveled there in unsophisticated boats. The earliest Aborigine migration must have come from an ancestral homeland somewhere in northeast Africa, meaning they are direct descendants of the first modern humans to leave that continent, without any genetic mixture from other races.
Australia is known for its mining and for its production of wool. Australia is the world's largest producer of bauxite. Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea and other islands on the Australian tectonic plate are together called Australasia. They form one of the world's great ecozones. When other Pacific islands are included, the term is Oceania. 
Best Answer: Australians came from being transported in ships from Britain. South Australia was the only free colony where it was settled through people choosing to come here rather than being transported for petty crimes like stealing bread, etc. But you've got mixes of Scottish and Irish in there as well. A lot of ppl were exported from England and literally shipped to down under: mostly from London jails like thiefs and prostitutes but also runaway girls from abusive parents or homes where they were in service.
UK /NZ. In answer to Marion, Australia has always been a country made up of people from all over the world, it is only since the loony left bought in multiculturalism that we have had people coming to Australia that will never fit in, will always be living on the public purse strings now and in 50 years. It has always been the UK where most come from, probably still is, especially Perth. Italy, New Zealand, Indochina, China and South Africa also provide large numbers. Mark G · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 8. Thumbs down. 2.
Australia is a developed country and one of the wealthiest in the world, with the world's 12th-largest economy. In 2014 Australia had the world's fifth-highest per capita income. Australia's military expenditure is the world's 13th-largest. Australia's landmass of 7,617,930 square kilometres (2,941,300 sq mi) is on the Indo-Australian Plate. Surrounded by the Indian and Pacific oceans, it is separated from Asia by the Arafura and Timor seas, with the Coral Sea lying off the Queensland coast, and the Tasman Sea lying between Australia and New Zealand.