A tsunami earthquake triggers a tsunami of a magnitude that is very much larger than the magnitude of the earthquake as measured by shorter-period seismic waves. The term was introduced by Hiroo Kanamori in 1972. Such events are a result of relatively slow rupture velocities. 
By far, the most destructive tsunamis are generated from large, shallow earthquakes with an epicenter or fault line near or on the ocean floor. These usually occur in regions of the earth characterized by tectonic subduction along tectonic plate boundaries. 
Tsunami are waves caused by sudden movement of the ocean due to earthquakes, landslides on the sea floor, land slumping into the ocean, large volcanic eruptions or meteorite impact in the ocean. Most tsunami are caused by large earthquakes on the seafloor when slabs of rock move past each other suddenly, causing the overlying water to move. The resulting waves move away from the source of the earthquake event.
A tsunami is a large ocean wave usually caused by an underwater earthquake or a volcanic explosion. Tsunamis are NOT tidal waves. Tidal waves are caused by the forces of the moon, sun, and planets upon the tides, as well as the wind as it moves over the water. 
Yes, they are one cause of tsunami. Earthquakes are actually one of the most common causes. Tsunami can be caused by undersea earthquakes or earthquakes near a coastal area … that displace the surface of the sea floor, raising the water abruptly and generating the gigantic waves. What causes earth quakes is the plates under earth move or collide with each other and shake the earth. Tsunamis can be caused also by earthquakes, especially those centered on the ocean floor. But they can also be caused by landslides and other natural events near the oceans. See the related questions below.
Tsunamis travel swiftly across the open ocean. The map below shows how a tsunami produced by an earthquake along the coast of Chile in 1960 traveled across the Pacific Ocean, reaching Hawaii in about 15 hours and Japan in less than 24 hours. Many people have the mistaken belief that tsunamis are single waves.
Let's review. A tsunami is a series of waves caused by an earthquake, underwater volcanic eruption, landslide or other abrupt disturbance. The most common cause of a tsunami is an earthquake, which is a sudden shifting of the earth's crust, which releases energy. If an earthquake happens underwater, the seafloor lifts and then drops back down, causing the overlying water to be displaced and triggering waves of water. A tsunami is a powerful series of waves that result due to an abrupt disturbance, such as an earthquake. Learn how tsunamis form and grow and discover the devastating effects they can have on people and the environment.
Tsunamis. If the earthquake occurs in the ocean, it can push up powerful waves, known as tsunamis. The sudden upward or downward movement of the seafloor during an earthquake creates large tsunami waves, similar to a child splashing in the bathtub. Earthquakes can also trigger tsunamis by unleashing underwater landslides, which also displace huge amounts of seawater. The quake also resulted in enormous tsunami waves. 1960 — Chile, Magnitude: 9.5. The largest earthquake ever recorded, the 1960 quake in Chile killed more than 1,600 people, with many of the deaths resulting from tsunamis. Waves reached 38 feet (11.5 meters) and carried debris as far as 2 miles (3.2 kilometers) inland.
Tsunamis are caused by violent seafloor movement associated with earthquakes, landslides, lava entering the sea, seamount collapse, or meteorite impact. The most common cause is earthquakes. See the percentages on the right for the geological events that cause tsunamis. Note that 72% of tsunamis are generated by earthquakes. A disturbance that displaces a large water mass from its equilibrium position can cause a tsunami.