Clays and clay minerals occur under a fairly limited range of geologic conditions. The environments of formation include soil horizons, continental and marine sediments, geothermal fields, volcanic deposits, and weathering rock formations. Most clay minerals form where rocks are in contact with water, air, or steam. Complex mixed-layer clay minerals (such as illite-smectites) are abundant in clay assemblages that develop from mica-bearing precursor rocks, such as the granite plutons that occur in temperate regions of the Northeastern United States.
Clays and clay minerals have been mined since the Stone Age; today they are among the most important minerals used by manufacturing and environmental industries. The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) supports studies of the properties of clays, the mechanisms of clay formation, and the behavior of clays during weathering. Complex mixed-layer clay minerals (such as illite-smectites) are abundant in clay assemblages that develop from mica-bearing precursor rocks, such as the granite plutons that occur in temperate regions of the Northeastern United States.
Clay minerals are hydrous aluminium phyllosilicates, sometimes with variable amounts of iron, magnesium, alkali metals, alkaline earths, and other cations found on or near some planetary surfaces. Clay minerals form in the presence of water and have been important to life, and many theories of abiogenesis involve them. They have been useful to humans since ancient times in agriculture and manufacturing. Clay minerals are usually (but not necessarily) ultrafine-grained (normally considered to be less than 2 micrometres in size on standard particle size classifications) and so may require special analytical techniques for their identification and study.
In fact clay minerals make up about 40% of the minerals in sedimentary rocks. In addition, clay minerals are the main constituent of soils. Understanding of clay minerals is also important from an engineering point of view, as some minerals expand significantly when exposed to water. Clay minerals are used extensively in the ceramics industry and are thus important economic minerals.
Clay Minerals. Definition: Clay minerals are the characteristic minerals of the earths near surface environments. They form in soils and sediments, and by diagenetic and hydrothermal alteration of rocks. Water is essential for clay mineral formation and most clay minerals are described as hydrous alumino silicates. The basis on which clay minerals are classified is shown below; see Hillier (2003) for a more detailed introduction to clay mineralogy.
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. Minerals can be described by various physical properties which relate to their chemical structure and composition. Common distinguishing characteristics include crystal structure and habit, hardness, lustre, diaphaneity, colour, streak, tenacity, cleavage, fracture, parting, and specific gravity.
Clay minerals are formed weathering a variety of minerals. The two main processes may involve slight physical and chemical alteration or decomposition and recrystallization. Clay mineral types are normally determined by the types of minerals and acidity of the leaching water. The clay minerals and soil organic matter are colloids. The most important property of colloids is their small size and large surface area. The total colloidal area of soil colloids may range from 10m2/g to more than 800 m2/g depending the external and internal surfaces of the colloid.
Clays and Clay Minerals. Clay is the common name for a number of fine-grained, earthy materials that become plastic when wet. Chemically, clays are hydrous aluminium silicates, usually containing minor amounts of impurities such as potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, or iron. The most abundant use of clay is in brick making. Granite is made up of quartz, mica and feldspar. As quartz is resistant to chemical weathering, it may be removed only as mineral grains of quartz. Feldspars and micas are susceptible to chemical weathering and break down to form clay minerals.
The inorganic component includes both primary and secondary minerals. The secondary minerals normally are found in the clay fraction of the soil which is the fraction of the soil solids which is less the 2 micron or 0.002 mm. Clay minerals are minerals which mainly occur in the clay sized fraction of the soil. 2. The clay minerals and soil organic matter are colloids. The most important property of colloids is their small size and large surface area. The total colloidal area of soil colloids may range from 10m2/g to more than 800 m2/g depending the external and internal surfaces of the colloid.