It is Mack’s dream to provide Royal Pedigree’s high-end and personalized pet services to all pet owners in Maryland, Virginia, and DC, including Chevy Chase, Bethesda, Kensington, Potomac, Silver Spring, Rockville, Northwest DC, and all surrounding regions. Every pet deserves to be treated as royalty! Royal Pedigree was founded and is owned by Mack Kaswell. Mack has lived his entire life in Bethesda and Chevy Chase, Maryland and has always been a passionate and devoted pet lover.
Queen Victoria explains pedigrees using the royal family and its inheritance of hemophilia. Her royal majesty, Queen Victoria of England! We shall tell you about pedigrees; ours is most detailed.We will focus on that part of the family line leading up to the Russian Royal House -- the Romanovs. 
The vision of ‘Royal Pedigree’ came about from both professional and personal experiences. After almost a lifetime of pet care experience, Mack’s vision of the perfect pet care company became a reality when he established what is now known as Royal Pedigree Pet Care. Royal Pedigree was founded and is owned by Mack Kaswell. Mack has lived his entire life in Bethesda and Chevy Chase, Maryland and has always been a passionate and devoted pet lover.
Royal Pedigree is a fully bonded and insured professional dog walking and pet sitting company based in Chevy Chase, Maryland. It consists of a team of professional, reliable, and caring pet sitters and dog walkers who have extensive pet care experience and are pet lovers and/or owners themselves. What we offer. Now you can leave home with peace of mind that your pet is receiving the love and care he or she deserves from a professional and trustworthy pet sitter or dog walker. Royal Pedigree offers a variety of pet services tailored to meet your needs, including, but not limited to:
Whether it is Pedigree, Royal Canin or any other food brand you choose for your pet, make sure it must work well for your pet and work as an ideal aid in keeping it healthy and fit. They are categorized on the basis of the breed, age and size of the animals in order to provide the pet with the food it required. [ Don’t Miss:Get up to 15 % off Royal Canin Dog Food ]. On the other hand, Pedigree is a subsidiary unit of Mars Inc. that was founded by Franc C. Mars. The brand leads in superior quality dog food since its establishment in 1911. It offers both wet and dry food for all size dogs
About the Owner. Royal Pedigree was founded and is owned by Mack Kaswell. Mack has lived his entire life in Bethesda and Chevy Chase, Maryland and has always been a passionate and devoted pet lover. He has owned, cared for, and handled just about every pet imaginable, from dogs, cats, and rabbits to snakes and lizards
We Love Pets! Royal Pedigree was founded and is owned by Mack Kaswell. Mack has lived his entire life in Bethesda-Chevy Chase, Maryland and has always been a passionate and devoted pet lover. What we offer. Now you can leave home with peace of mind that your pet is receiving the love and care he or she deserves from a professional and trustworthy pet sitter or dog walker. Royal Pedigree offers a variety of pet services tailored to meet your needs, including, but not limited to:
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Pedigree is not a high quality dog food and has lots of corn and fillers in it. Royal Canin is a high quality dog food. The corn used is the inside portion of the kernal, not the undigestible part.