http://www.mpaa.org/FlmRat_Ratings.asp A PG-13 rating is a sterner warning by the Rating Board to parents to determine whether their children under age 13 should view the moti … on picture, as some material might not be suited for them. PG-13: Parents Strongly Cautioned, some material may be inappropriate for children under the age of 13. This is a rating directing parents to determine if a child under the a … ge of thirteen should watch a movie. See the Related Link below for a full definition provided by the Motion Picture Association of America.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: PG-13 simply means some material may be innappropiate for children under the age of 13.. There is no age restriction and the theater personnel won't ask to see your ID, as is the case with R-rated movies. You don't need to go with a parent or guardian to be admitted but you do need the cash
A PG-13 rating is a sterner warning by the Rating Board to parents to determine whether their children under age 13 should view the motion picture, as some material might not … be suited for them. More than brief nudity will require at least a PG-13 rating, but such nudity in a PG-13 rated motion picture generally will not be sexually oriented. There may be depictions of violence in a PG-13 movie, but generally not both realistic and extreme or persistent violence.
PG-13 stands for Parental Guidance suggested for ages under 13. It means some or quite alot of material may be inappropriate for children under 13 if children under 13 are not accompanied by an adult or parental guardian. Khoi Minh Vu · 6 months ago. 
1 vote Vote for this answer. A PG-13 rating is a sterner warning by the Rating Board to parents to determine whether their children under age 13 should view the motion picture, as some material might not be suited for them. More than brief nudity will require at least a PG-13 rating, but such nudity in a PG-13 rated motion picture generally will not be sexually oriented. There may be depictions of violence in a PG-13 movie, but generally not both realistic and extreme or persistent violence.
Save. When the Motion Picture Association of America assigns a PG-13 rating to a movie, they're urging parents to be cautious when deciding whether to allow their children to watch that particular film. PG stands for parental guidance and the number 13 denotes that some material in the film may be inappropriate for pre-teens, or children under the age of 13. A movie rating doesn't indicate whether a movie is good or bad, but rather reflects the violent, sexual, drug use and language content within a
http://www.mpaa.org/FlmRat_Ratings.asp A PG-13 rating is a sterner warning by the Rating Board to parents to determine whether their children under age 13 should view the moti … on picture, as some material might not be suited for them. More than brief nudity will require at least a PG-13 rating, but such nudity in a PG-13 rated motion picture generally will not be sexually oriented. There may be depictions of violence in a PG-13 movie, but generally not both realistic and extreme or persistent violence.
PG-13: Parents Strongly Cautioned, some material may be inappropriate for children under the age of 13. This is a rating directing parents to determine if a child under the age of thirteen should watch a movie. See the Related Link below for a full definition provided by the Motion Picture Association of America. More than brief nudity will require at least a PG-13 rating, but such nudity in a PG-13 rated motion picture generally will not be sexually oriented. There may be depictions of violence in a PG-13 movie, but generally not both realistic and extreme or persistent violence.