A system of social stratification in India, deriving from the Aryan hereditary division of the population into priests (Brahmins), warriors and rulers (Kshatriya), farmers and merchants (Vaisya), and laborers, artisans, and domestic servants (Sudra). 
The Caste system in Sri Lanka is a division of society into strata, similar to the Jāti system found in India. Yezidi society is hierarchical. In Yemen there exists a hereditary caste, the African-descended Al-Akhdam who are kept as perennial manual workers. Various sociologists have reported caste systems in Africa. The English word caste derives from the Spanish and Portuguese casta, which the Oxford English Dictionary quotes John Minsheu 's Spanish dictionary (1599) to mean, race, lineage, or breed. When the Spanish colonized the New World, they used the word to mean a clan or lineage..
The Caste System in Brief: The origins of the caste system in India and Nepal are shrouded, but it seems to have originated more than two thousand years ago. Under this system, which is associated with Hinduism, people were categorized by their occupations. Although originally caste depended upon a person's work, it soon became hereditary.
A paradigmatic, ethnographic example is the division of Indian society into social groups. Historically, the caste system in India has consisted of thousands of endogamous groups called Jatis or Quoms and Biradaris (among Muslims). The English word caste derives from the Spanish and Portuguese casta, which the Oxford English Dictionary quotes John Minsheu 's Spanish dictionary (1599) to mean, race, lineage, or breed. When the Spanish colonized the New World, they used the word to mean a clan or lineage..
Report Abuse. A caste system is a type of social structure which divides people on the basis of inherited social status. within a caste system, people are rigidly expected to marry and interact with people of the same social class. т20★ · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 4. Thumbs down. 1. 1 comment. Loading ... 
The Caste System --(groups assigned by birth not personality). The Hindu conception of the social order is that people are different, and different people will fit well into different aspects of society. 
The original caste system is a division of people into four essential groups, the spiritually inclined people (Brahmins), the security personnel (Kshatriyas), the producers of the means of livelihood (Visayas) and the instruction followers (Sudras). Several characteristics distinguish a caste system. The first is the tendency toward endogamy, meaning that people marry within the same caste exclusively. Caste mobility is also extremely rare; one cannot transform from a laborer to a scholar except in very rare circumstances, for example.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A caste system is a type of social structure which divides people on the basis of inherited social status. Although many societies could be described in this way, within a caste system, people are rigidly expected to marry and interact with people of the same social class. Several characteristics distinguish a caste system. The first is the tendency toward endogamy, meaning that people marry within the same caste exclusively. Caste mobility is also extremely rare; one cannot transform from a laborer to a scholar except in very rare circumstances, for example.
The pattern of social classes in Hinduism is called the caste system.. The chart shows the major divisions and contents of the system. Basic caste is called varn.a, , or color.. Subcaste, or jati, , jâti, birth, life, rank is a traditional subdivision of.varn. a The chart shows the major divisions and contents of the system. Basic caste is called varn.a, , or color.. Subcaste, or jati, , jâti, birth, life, rank is a traditional subdivision of.varn. A sometimes caste is avoided as a word for.varn. a
The caste system in India is a system of social stratification which has pre-modern origins, was transformed by the British Raj, and is today the basis of reservation in India. It consists of two different concepts, varna and jāti, which may be regarded as different levels of analysis of this system. Ambedkar was born in a caste that was classified as untouchable, became a leader of human rights in India, a prolific writer, and a key person in drafting modern India's constitution in the 1940s. He wrote extensively on discrimination, trauma and what he saw as the tragic effects of the caste system in India.