INR Levels. For people taking blood-thinning medications, it is important to make sure that the medication is working properly to avoid serious complications. To help ensure safe treatment, a healthcare provider will take a blood sample and test how long it takes the blood to clot. If your INR falls below the normal levels, your blood may clot too quickly and increase your risk for a stroke. (Click INR for more details on the specific levels of INR that are considered within a normal range, as well as information on how often this ratio needs to be checked.). Advertisement.
The international normalized ratio (INR) is a calculation based on results of a PT and is used to monitor individuals who are being treated with the blood-thinning medication (anticoagulant) warfarin (Coumadin®). The PT and INR are used to monitor the effectiveness of the anticoagulant warfarin. This drug affects the function of the coagulation cascade and helps inhibit the formation of blood clots. It is prescribed on a long-term basis to people who have experienced recurrent inappropriate blood clotting.
The prothrombin time (PT) — along with its derived measures of prothrombin ratio (PR) and international normalized ratio (INR) — are assays evaluating the extrinsic pathway of coagulation. This test is also called ProTime INR and PT/INR. They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage, and vitamin K status. PT measures factors I (fibrinogen) , II (prothrombin) , V, VII, and X. Laboratory measurement [edit]. The reference range for prothrombin time depends on the analytical method used, but is usually around 12–13 seconds (results should always be interpreted using the reference range from the laboratory that performed the test), and the INR in absence of anticoagulation therapy is 0.8-1.2.
It's safer for you when your INR is in your Normal INR Range because the risks of an INR Level lower than your Normal INR range could mean that you are at risk for potential clots and an INR higher than your Normal INR Range could mean that you are at risk for potential internal bleeding. As an example, we are going to use an INR of 2.5 because usually an INR of 2.5 is a normal INR level for someone taking Warfarin.
INR Test. Share this page: Tweet. The INR is a test of blood clotting, which is primarily used to monitor warfarin therapy, where the aim is to maintain an elevated INR in a certain range eg, 2.0 to 3.0. It is initially checked frequently, but as treatment is stabilised it may be done less often, eg fortnightly. 
A normal INR is approximately 1.0. People taking the blood thinner warfarin typically have a target INR of 2.0 to 3.0. People with an INR higher than the normal range who aren’t taking warfarin may have a medical condition that needs further evaluation. A low INR is rarely significant. The INR comes from the conversion of another value, the prothrombin time (PT). Prothrombin time is the time it takes for blood to clot in a test tube. A high or low PT can suggest bleeding or clotting tendencies. Most often, the PT is checked to monitor a person’s response to blood thinners such as warfarin (Coumadin)
However, in people taking warfarin a normal INR level is  … somewhere between 2 and 3.   High levels of INR are associated with: Disorders affecting  clotting factors; Warfarin usage; Vitamin K deficiency; Liver  disease; Disseminated intravascular coagulation etc. People taking anticoagulant drugs, such as Warfarin, will have a raised INR, typically between 2.5 and 3.5. This means the blood is less sticky and less likely to form clots in the event of certain surgical procedures or disease.
Wot is the inr level for someone with a mechanical valve INR = International Normalised Ratio, which describes how 'sticky' the blood is. Values are taken relative to 'norma … l' which is an INR of 1.0. People taking anticoagulant drugs, such as Warfarin, will have a raised INR, typically between 2.5 and 3.5. This means the blood is less sticky and less likely to form clots in the event of certain surgical procedures or disease.