Every year, hundreds of billions of dollars are distributed in the form of federal grants to universities, local governments, organizations and individuals. The vast majority of these funds are spent as intended, but misuse, deceit and abuse are nonetheless present. As a result, hundreds of thousand dollars go to waste.
The allure of so-called free money from the federal government has enabled scam artists to prey on people's hopes by promising access to grants – often for a fee. In reality, federal grants are rarely awarded to individuals seeking personal benefits, and applying for a grant is completely free.
What ?is a Land-Grant CollegeA land-grant college or university is an institution that has been designated by its state legislature or Congress to receive the benefits of the Morrill Acts of 1862 and 1890.
Certainly, everyone has heard of federal grants being distributed to particular projects, institutions, and even entire communities or localities, but the definition of what a federal grant can entail is far from clear cut or all-encompassing.
Sponsored Projects Information Network (SPIN) SPIN is a database of grants from government, foundation and corporate sources, available for a fee from InfoEd of Albany, New York. Your grants office may have access to this database. For more information call 1-800-727-6427 or send email to office@infoed.org.
GrantsWeb A collection of links to grants-related information and resources. A Grant Seeker's Guide to the Internet Written by Andrew J. Grant (agrbb@cunyvm.bitnet). A Grant Getter's Guide to the Internet Written by James M. Kearney (jkearney@uidaho.edu).
You can make money from federal grants if you use the grant money  to invest in a business or house that makes you a profit or makes  you money when you sell it.
The Chronicle of Philanthropy also sells Guide to Grants, a PC-based database of grant opportunities. It costs $295 per year for the disk version (updated bimonthly) or $395 for the CD-ROM version. For more information, call 1-800-287-6072.
grant. Bounty, contribution, gift, or subsidy (in cash or kind) bestowed by a government or other organization (called the grantor) for specified purposes to an eligible recipient (called the grantee).
Writing successful grant applications is a long process that begins with an idea. Although many people think of grant writing as a linear process (from idea to proposal to award), it is a circular process. Diagram 1 below provides an overview of the grant writing process and may help you plan your proposal development.