Kingdom Protista is a diverse group of eukaryotic organisms. Protists are unicellular, some are colonial or multicellular, they do not have specialized tissue organization. The simple cellular organization distinguishes the protists from other eukaryotes. 1 Movement is often by flagella or cilia. 2  Protists are multicellular organisms, they are not a plant, animal or fungus. 3  Respiration-cellular respiration is primarily aerobic process, but some living in mud below ponds or in digestive tracts of animals ares strict facultative anaerobes.
Protists were traditionally subdivided into several groups based on similarities to the higher kingdoms: the unicellular animal-like protozoa, the plant-like protophyta (mostly unicellular algae), and the fungus-like slime molds and water molds. Some protists, sometimes called ambiregnal protists, have been considered to be both protozoa and algae or fungi (e.g., slime molds and flagellated algae), and names for these have been published under either or both of the ICN and the ICZN.
General characteristics of Kingdom Protista are as follows: 1  They are simple eukaryotic organisms. 2  Most of the organisms are unicellular, some are colonial and some are multicellular like algae. 3  Most of the protists live in water, some in moist soil or even the body of human and plants. 1 Movement is often by flagella or cilia. 2  Protists are multicellular organisms, they are not a plant, animal or fungus. 3  Respiration-cellular respiration is primarily aerobic process, but some living in mud below ponds or in digestive tracts of animals ares strict facultative anaerobes.
Protists live in almost any environment that contains liquid water. Many protists, such as algae, are photosynthetic and are vital primary producers in ecosystems, particularly in the ocean as part of the plankton. Some protists, sometimes called ambiregnal protists, have been considered to be both protozoa and algae or fungi (e.g., slime molds and flagellated algae), and names for these have been published under either or both of the ICN and the ICZN.
Protists are organisms that are part of the biological kingdom called the protista. These organisms are not plants, animals, bacteria, or fungi. Protists are a very diverse group of organisms. They are basically all the organisms that don't fit into the other groups. 
Kingdom Protista. All single celled organisms are placed under the Kingdom Protista. The term Protista was first used by Ernst Haeckel in the year 1886. This kingdom forms a link between other kingdoms of plants, animals and fungi. 1 Movement is often by flagella or cilia. 2  Protists are multicellular organisms, they are not a plant, animal or fungus. 3  Respiration-cellular respiration is primarily aerobic process, but some living in mud below ponds or in digestive tracts of animals ares strict facultative anaerobes.
Kingdom Protista are very small, and the smallest of the  Eukaryotes. They are either multicellular, unicellular, or  colonial, and are not plants, animals, or fungi. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Answered. 1 Many are parasitic and lives in ponds. 2  The plant-like protists are thought to be the ancestors of modern plants. 3  The animal-like protists are thought to have been the ancestors of all animals.
Lesson Summary. Kingdom Protista contains the protists, or all the organisms that do not fit into the other kingdoms of life. Protists can be heterotrophic or autotrophic, mobile or immobile, single-celled or multi-celled, solo or a member of a colony. They are categorized into three main categories based on how they obtain nutrients. The animal-like protists are also known as protozoans, which is Latin for 'first animals.' All protozoans are single-celled heterotrophs and are categorized based on their movement. Paramecia are examples of protozoans that use cilia, or tiny hairs, to propel themselves through the water.
Characteristics of Protists. Protists are eukaryotic organisms that cannot be classified as a plant, animal, or fungus. They are mostly unicellular, but some, like algae, are multicellular. Kelp, or 'seaweed,' is a large multicellular protist that provides food, shelter, and oxygen for numerous underwater ecosystems. The animal-like protists are also known as protozoans, which is Latin for 'first animals.' All protozoans are single-celled heterotrophs and are categorized based on their movement. Paramecia are examples of protozoans that use cilia, or tiny hairs, to propel themselves through the water.