Sequenza was a Jesuit Priest found historical proof that the Aztecs was descended from the people in the bible. For that he was expelled as a Jesuit Priest. No one took him serious, you can even find and history on his work. 1  Education. 
The Aztec /ˈaeztɛk/ ˈæztɛk people were certain ethnic groups of Central, mexico particularly those groups who spoke The nahuatl language and who dominated large parts Of mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th. centuries In Aztec marketplaces, a small rabbit was worth 30 beans, a turkey egg cost 3 beans, and a tamal cost a single bean. For larger purchases, standardized lengths of cotton cloth called quachtli were used. There were different grades of quachtli, ranging in value from 65 to 300 cacao beans.
What influenced it? Art in the Aztec empire, like its culture and religion, came from a long history-a history of many different tribes. Techniques and themes in Aztec art were influenced by hundreds, perhaps thousands of years of artistry in this part of the world. The Aztecs called special things like this toltecat. This word was from a group of people known as the Toltecs, whose city was destroyed in 1168. No doubt the massive statues of the gods in the abandoned city impressed the Aztecs.
In other contexts, Aztec may refer to all the various city states and their peoples, who shared large parts of their ethnic history and cultural traits with the Mexica, Acolhua and Tepanecs, and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca. In Aztec marketplaces, a small rabbit was worth 30 beans, a turkey egg cost 3 beans, and a tamal cost a single bean. For larger purchases, standardized lengths of cotton cloth called quachtli were used. There were different grades of quachtli, ranging in value from 65 to 300 cacao beans.
The Aztecs / Mexicas were the native American people who dominated northern Mexico at the time of the Spanish conquest led by Hernan CORTES in the early 16th century. According to their own legends, they originated from a place called Aztlan, somewhere in north or northwest Mexico. At that time the Aztecs (who referred to themselves as the Mexica or Tenochca) were a small, nomadic, Nahuatl-speaking aggregation of tribal peoples living on the margins of civilized Mesoamerica.
Aztec History. The Aztec were a Nahuatl-speaking people who in the 15th and early 16th centuries ruled a large empire in what is now central and southern Mexico. The Aztec are so called from Aztlan (“Aztlán White”), land an allusion to their place of, origin probably in Northern. mexico The Aztec are so called from Aztlan (“Aztlán White”), land an allusion to their place of, origin probably in Northern. Mexico they were also called The, tenochca from an eponymous, Ancestor, tenoch and The, mexica probably From (Metzliapan Metzliapán), moon lake the mystical Name For. lake texcoco
Often the term Aztec refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan (now the location of Mexico City), situated on an island in Lake Texcoco, who referred to themselves as Mēxihcah Tenochcah [meːˈʃiʔkaʔ teˈnot͡ʃkaʔ] or Cōlhuah Mexihcah [ˈkoːlwaʔ meːˈʃiʔkaʔ] . In Aztec marketplaces, a small rabbit was worth 30 beans, a turkey egg cost 3 beans, and a tamal cost a single bean. For larger purchases, standardized lengths of cotton cloth called quachtli were used. There were different grades of quachtli, ranging in value from 65 to 300 cacao beans.
Report Abuse. The Incas are one of many Ameirnd peopes who lived in SOUTH America. Some modern Mexicans are descended from Aztecs however there were a great many other Amerind peoples in what is now Mexico! J V · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. Mexicans are a mix of Mayan, Incas, Aztecs, Spanish, and various other Native American and even Asian peoples. Mexico is a LARGE place with coasts on both the east and west... Asians came from the east in boats LONG before the Spanish came...