Most hydroseeding companies price the cost of hydroseeding new lawns by calculating the square feet of the area to be hydroseeded (length X width = square feet) less home, walks, drive, and landscaping. Example: A lot 125 feet deep and 80 feet wide would be 10,000 square feet. Less the home, walks, drive and landscaping, lets say about 4,500 square feet. We are left with about 5,500 square feet to hydroseed.
First it's important to note, not all hydroseeding applications are the same. The type of seed, tackifiers, mulch, and rate they are applied, will have an impact on the final hydroseed cost. For Sod Quality Results, we recommend a blend of high quality grass seed, a small amount of tackifiers (bonding agent), and a rate of 2,000 lbs of 100% wood fiber hydro-mulch/acre. Example: A lot 125 feet deep and 80 feet wide would be 10,000 square feet. Less the home, walks, drive and landscaping, lets say about 4,500 square feet. We are left with about 5,500 square feet to hydroseed.
Cost of lawn installation and maintenance. Installation costs per square foot: 1  Hydroseed: $.50-1.00. 2  Sod: $3.50. 3  Artificial turf: $8-$12. 4  Backyard putting greens: $14. Hand-seeding, hydroseeding, sod, and artificial turf vary greatly in both the initial installation cost and the ongoing cost to maintain.
A hydroseeded lawn costs an average of $.50-1.00 per square foot with an additional $2 per square foot for the sprinkler system. Hydroseed is more cost-effective for large areas than it is for small ones, since it takes the same amount of time to set up the hydroseeder for a large area as it does for a small one. A hydroseed lawn is an inexpensive, efficient alternative to using sod in areas where a living lawn is desired. However, it’s not without drawbacks. Any kind of seeded lawn takes more maintenance to establish than sod. Learn more about the benefits and drawbacks of choosing a hydroseeded lawn. 1 No cost savings on small lawns-While hydroseeding is a cost-saving choice for large areas, the initial time and expense of getting the hydroseed machine set up means that you don’t save much money on small lawns.
Hydroseeding is a process used to produce turf in a significantly short time at costs lower than sod. Hydroseeding applications are not the same, and the rates used to produce the ideal seed germination vary by mix or blend and other factors. 1 Optional items like tackifier and tumersan are also offered. 2  Tackifier, a substance used to help hydroseed adhere to landscape, costs $0.01 per sq. ft. ($75 min.). 3  Tumersan, pre-emergent weed control, costs $0.01 per sq.ft.
1 Tackifier, a substance used to help hydroseed adhere to landscape, costs $0.01 per sq. ft. ($75 min.). 2  Tumersan, pre-emergent weed control, costs $0.01 per sq.ft. 1 Optional items like tackifier and tumersan are also offered. 2  Tackifier, a substance used to help hydroseed adhere to landscape, costs $0.01 per sq. ft. ($75 min.). 3
Hydroseeding is a fast, cost effective way to have a new lawn that will turn your neighbors green with envy. Hydroseeding costs only a little more than old fashioned methods using dry seeding techniques combined with a messy straw mulch. The cost to have your new lawn hydroseeded is less than 1/4 the cost of using sod, and in a few weeks you will have a better appearing lawn with no need to worry if the sod will take. your new lawn will be sprayed on. The protective mulch covering has an attractive green appearance.
This Site Might Help You. RE: Cost of hydroseeding for 12000 square foot new lawn? I want to put in lawn behind my house. I&#39;m installing sprinklers for roughly a 150&#39;x75&#39; rectangle. In Modesto/Stockton area in California does anyone know how much it would cost to hydroseed the area? Google results gave me anywhere from 3 cents to 20 cents per sq ft., and I have the feeling... show more I want to put in lawn behind my house. I'm installing sprinklers for roughly a 150'x75' rectangle.
1 The cost of hydroseeding at Always Green Hydroseeding depends on the seed choice. 2  Quick Lawn, which uses Perennial Ryegrass, costs $0.10 per square foot. 3  Athletic and Park, suitable for home lawns, parks and athletic fields, costs $0.12 per square foot. 4  Tuff Turf, seed mix for heavy traffic, costs $0.14 per square foot. 1 Optional items like tackifier and tumersan are also offered. 2  Tackifier, a substance used to help hydroseed adhere to landscape, costs $0.01 per sq. ft. ($75 min.). 3  Tumersan, pre-emergent weed control, costs $0.01 per sq.ft.
Get a great quality lawn without the work and cost of laying sod! Hydroseeding is a fast, cost-effective way to have a new lawn. The cost can be less than ¼ of the cost of using sod. In a few weeks you will have a beautiful lawn, with no need to worry if the sod will take hold. Hydroseeding eliminates the backbreaking dirty job of laying sod by hand. 