Technically speaking, the zest is the colorful portion of the peel or rind. The peel or rind refers to the entire skin‚Äîboth äîboth the colorful outer portion and the bitter white pith that lies right beneath. It the white pith is bitter and, unpleasant while the zest has the bright flavor of the. fruit Technically speaking, the zest is the colorful portion of the peel or rind. The peel or rind refers to the entire skin‚Äîboth äîboth the colorful outer portion and the bitter white pith that lies right beneath. it
It is the yellow part of the lemon peel. Lemon Zest is not the same thing as rind or peel, it is just the outermost colorful part of a citrus fruit. The yellow layer of the lemon, or the zest, is desirable because it contains lots of essential oils, making for a strong yet pleasant flavor. You do not want the soft white underneath layer called the pith. The pith is very bitter with a generally unpleasant taste and little actual citrus flavor. 
What is Lemon Zest: The rich outermost part of the rind of an orange, lemon, or other citrus fruit, which can be used as flavoring. Freshly-grated orange, lime or lemon zest packs a flavor wallop no bottles dried zest can match. One of the easiest ways to infuse a citrus flavor into your baked goods is to add lemon, lime, or orange zest to the dish. Lemon zest has an intense lemon/citrus flavor with very little bitterness.
Orange zest is the top layer of an orange's peel. It contains the fruit's oils and adds a bright citrus flavor to a variety of dishes. There are several kitchen utensils you can use to zest an orange, including a microplane, grater, vegetable peeler or knife. See Step 1 to start making fresh orange zest. 
Four Methods: Zesting with a Microplane or Grater Zesting with a Cocktail Zester Zesting with a Vegetable Peeler Zesting with a Paring Knife. Your poor ancestors had to skin the hide of the might lemon with nothing but stone knives. 
Zest is a food ingredient that is prepared by scraping or cutting from the outer, colorful skin of unwaxed citrus fruits such as lemon, orange, citron, and lime. Zest is used to add flavor (zest) to foods. In terms of fruit anatomy, zest is obtained from the flavedo (exocarp) which is also referred to as zest. The flavedo and white pith (albedo) of a citrus fruit together makes up its peel.
To use a zester, I would hold the tool in my right hand and the lemon in my left. Gently scrape the holes of the zester along the surface of the lemon from top to bottom, removing a long ribbon of zest. Rotate the lemon and repeat. You can leave the zest in long ribbons or chop them into small pieces. 
Zest is not the same thing as the peel, or rind, of a lemon, although it is a part of the peel. The zest is the colorful outer layer of the citrus peel. The soft, white part of the peel just underneath the zest is the pith. The reason that the zest is so desireable is that it contains lots of essential oils that make for a strong, pleasant flavor
The peel of a citrus fruit contains two (2) top layers: The zest (the outermost part of the rind). On a lemon, zest is the yellow part of the peel (skin) on the outside of a lemon. The zest is shiny, brightly colored, and textured; it is the outer surface of the fruit which consumers can directly see. The pith (the inner white, fibrous membrane directly below the zest which helps to protect the fruit inside). Freshly-grated orange, lime or lemon zest packs a flavor wallop no bottles dried zest can match. One of the easiest ways to infuse a citrus flavor into your baked goods is to add lemon, lime, or orange zest to the dish. Lemon zest has an intense lemon/citrus flavor with very little bitterness.
A. Zest is the outermost rind of citrus fruits (usually lemons and oranges). It is valued for the strong citrus flavor it imparts to food, thanks to an abundance of perfumy, aromatic oils in the rind. To remove the zest from the fruit, use a utensil called a zester or a sharp paring knife or vegetable peeler. Peel off only the colored portion of the rind; the white pith can be bitter rather than flavorful. Then mince or leave it in strips as the recipe dictates. Some recipes call for grated zest. You can simply grate the lemon or orange as you would any vegetable, using a hand-held grater.