Prokaryotes are organisms made up of cells that lack a cell nucleus or any membrane-encased organelles. This means the genetic material DNA in prokaryotes is not bound within a nucleus. Additionally, the DNA is less structured in prokaryotes than in eukaryotes. In prokaryotes, DNA is a single loop. In Eukaryotes, DNA is organized into chromosomes. Most prokaryotes are made up of just a single cell (unicellular) but there are a few that are made of collections of cells (multicellular). Scientists have divided the prokaryotes into two groups, the Bacteria and the Archaea
These two groups are the prokaryotes and the eukaryotes. Prokaryotes are organisms made up of cells that lack a cell nucleus or any membrane-encased organelles. Eukaryotes are organisms made up of cells that possess a membrane-bound nucleus (that holds genetic material) as well as membrane-bound organelles. Additionally, the DNA is less structured in prokaryotes than in eukaryotes. In prokaryotes, DNA is a single loop. In Eukaryotes, DNA is organized into chromosomes. Most prokaryotes are made up of just a single cell (unicellular) but there are a few that are made of collections of cells (multicellular).
The genetic material of eukaryotic cells is organized in chromosomes.The genetic material of a cell contains information needed for the cells' growth and other activities. Whe … n a cell divides into 2 new cells, each new cell receives a full set of genetic material. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The genetic material of eukaryotic cells is organized in chromosomes.The genetic material of a cell contains information needed for the cells' growth and other activities. When a cell divides into 2 new cells, each new cell receives a full set of genetic material. DNA is the genetic material that carries the information needed to  make new organisms or new cells within organisms. The DNA in  mitochondria is only from the individual's … maternal lineage, versus  the individual's unique DNA found in other cells.
The genetic material of the nucleus of eukaryotes is organized into chromosomes that are capable of duplication and distribution through mitosis between daughter cells. The molecular basis of the chromosomes is deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), which is closely associated with histones and other proteins. (yo͞okar`yo͞okâr-ē') , ōt a cell or organism composed of cells that have a-membrane bound nucleus and (organelles, mitochondria; chloroplasts see cell,cell in, biology the unit of structure and function of which all plants and animals are. composed
Eukaryotes. Eukaryotes are organisms made up of cells that possess a membrane-bound nucleus (that holds genetic material) as well as membrane-bound organelles. Genetic material in eukaryotes is contained within a nucleus within the cell and DNA is organized into chromosomes. Additionally, the DNA is less structured in prokaryotes than in eukaryotes. In prokaryotes, DNA is a single loop. In Eukaryotes, DNA is organized into chromosomes. Most prokaryotes are made up of just a single cell (unicellular) but there are a few that are made of collections of cells (multicellular).
The genetic material of eukaryotic cells is organized in chromosomes. The genetic material of a cell contains information needed for the cell's growth and other activities. When a cell divides into two new cells, each new cell receives a full set of genetic material. Chromosomes. In a eukaryotic cell, most of the cell's DNA is in the nucleus. During most of a cell's life cycle, DNA exists as a mass of loose strands. While the DNA is spread throughout the nucleus, the cell performs the functions needed for survival. During this time, the DNA is duplicated, or copied.
DNA. The genetic material in cells is DNA—deoxyribonucleic acid (dee-AHK-see-RY-boh-noo-KLEE-ihk). DNA is a chemical that contains information for an organism's growth and functions. You read in chapter 1 that James Watson and Francis Crick worked with other scientists to build a model of DNA in 1953. Chromosomes. In a eukaryotic cell, most of the cell's DNA is in the nucleus. During most of a cell's life cycle, DNA exists as a mass of loose strands. While the DNA is spread throughout the nucleus, the cell performs the functions needed for survival. During this time, the DNA is duplicated, or copied.
Prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells differ a great detail in both the amount and the organization of their molecules of DNA. a. Eukaryotic cells contain much more DNA than do bacteria, and this DNA is organized as multiple chromosomes located within a nucleus. b. The nucleus (def) in eukaryotic cells is separated from the cytoplasm by a nuclear envelope (nuclear membrane) (see Fig. 32). 