Where is Sharjah, United Arab Emirates Located? Sharjah is a city/town with a large population in the country of United Arab Emirates which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Cities, towns and places near Sharjah include Al Sharjah, Ash 'Mariqah, Ash Shariqah and Ash Shariqa. The closest major cities include Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Doha and Sirjan. 
Galina, Russia. Ewan Hotel is located 3 miles from central Sharjah and close to both Dubai and Sharjah airports. It is a short walk to the beach front. There is free parking. All rooms and suites at Ewan Hotel are well furnished and air conditioned. Most rooms have views of the Arabian Gulf. 
Sharjah is the third largest city (after Dubai and Abu Dhabi) in the United Arab Emirates. The palace of the ruler of the Emirate of Sharjah (Sultan bin Mohamed Al-Qasimi) is located about 20 kilometres (12 mi) southeast of the city. Sharjah is bordered by the cities of Dubai and Ajmān and is about 170 km (110 mi) away from the capital city Abu Dhabi.
Confidence votes 698. Sharjah is the oldest city of the United Arab Emirates.It is located besides Dubai followed by Umm al Quwain then /Ras Al Khaimah, as you move Northwards up the coast towards Oman. Answer by R. Kayed. Confidence votes 698. Sharjah is the oldest city of the United Arab Emirates.It is located besides Dubai followed by Umm al Quwain then /Ras Al Khaimah, as you move Northwards up the coast towards Oman. Sharjah is one of the seven emirates that comprise the United Arab Emirates.
Hotel’s home in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates near 2 international airports. The Sharjah International Airport is only 15 kilometers from this hotel’s location in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates, while Dubai International Airport is only 18 kilometers away. Public transport: This Radisson Blu resort is located 15 kilometers from the Sharjah International Airport (SHJ) and 18 kilometers from Dubai International Airport (DXB). Both airports offer rental cars, and taxis are also readily available.
1 Crystal Plaza Hotel is located in the heart of Sharjah, United Arab Emirates (UAE), less than a kilometer from Mega Mall Sharjah. 2  This three-star property takes pride in its contemporary amenities and friendly services. Sharjah is the third largest of the seven emirates that make up the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and is the only one to have land on both the Persian Gulf Coast and the Gulf of Oman. Sharjah is also next to Dubai and is effectively its suburb, with commuter traffic creating rush hour traffic jams.
Sharjah (/ˈʃɑrdʒə/ ; Arabic: الشارقة ‎ aš-Šāriqah) is the third largest and third most populous city in the United Arab Emirates, forming part of the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan area. It is located along the northern coast of the Persian Gulf on the Arabian Peninsula. Sharjah is bordered by the cities of Dubai and Ajmān and is about 170 km (110 mi) away from the capital city Abu Dhabi.