An alternator is a generator of electric power in you car and is a major component of your vehicle's charging system. Whenever your engine is running, the alternator charges your battery and supplies additional electric power for the vehicle's electrical systems. How to make your alternator to last longer. Often an alternator can fail prematurely when a protective engine undercover or shield is damaged or missing. This is happens because sand and water from the road can get inside the alternator and cause it to wear faster.
Brushes are the timed failure in alternators. They start at a certain length and they wear at a certain rate so an alternator has a designed lifespan. Add to that the random failures of regulators, bearings, diodes, and belts and you have a high failure rate item on your hands. Some companies have bad designs. 1. Lack of maintenance. Leaving a battery in a vehicle too long makes the alternator work too hard to recharge the battery. If fools the voltage regulator, which is what usually fails from heat buidup. Get the battery load tested/serviced every October.
As more plates fail, the power drops to levels that will eventually cause the battery to die and the ignition system to fail. Testing the output regularly with a voltage tester while the car is running can give indications that these plates, or other components, are wearing out. The primary mount of the alternator serves as the negative ground and usually the mount will be wired to the vehicle's frame with a large cable. This cable is held onto the mount with one bolt, and it is known to become loose or disconnected.
Everything you listed, drains the battery. It's the job of the alternator to keep the battery fully charged. So if you leave the lights on, leave your gps or charger plugged in all the time, you are draining the battery unnecessarily and forcing the alternator to work harder when the car is running. About 4 days ago my alternator failed (the dash light came on) and I managed to run my car on its battery until today when I took it in to the shop. My mechanic identified these bad behaviors: -I leave my car charger plugged in 24/7, and that apparently draws a charge even when my phone is not in it-I often...
The component that has the highest failure rate on most alternators is the Bridge Rectifier. The bridge rectifier (aka rectifier) is the component that converts the Alternating Current (AC) that an alternator makes to Direct Current (DC) for use by the vehicle. 
If the electronics are of a cheap make, the voltage regulator can overcharge the battery or even destroy the electrical system of the car from extreme power surges. Tighten the ground wire or braided strap to the alternator mount, and check it often. The primary mount of the alternator serves as the negative ground and usually the mount will be wired to the vehicle's frame with a large cable. This cable is held onto the mount with one bolt, and it is known to become loose or disconnected.
Many times, the alternator will fail from being stressed by a dead or dying battery. The duty cycle of the average alternator will charge a battery while the car is running, and accessories like an air conditioner or lighting system will not give the alternator a break. The primary mount of the alternator serves as the negative ground and usually the mount will be wired to the vehicle's frame with a large cable. This cable is held onto the mount with one bolt, and it is known to become loose or disconnected.
Test the Output. When an alternator wears out, it does so in stages. An alternator produces power by rotating three plates across a winding of copper wires. These plates can fail one at a time and reduce, but not stop, the power output. The primary mount of the alternator serves as the negative ground and usually the mount will be wired to the vehicle's frame with a large cable. This cable is held onto the mount with one bolt, and it is known to become loose or disconnected.
One of the most common failures is bearing failure. The needle bearings that allow the rotor to spin freely inside the stator can break down from dirt and heat. When the bearings fail, the rotor will not spin efficiently and can eventually seize. Usually an alternator with bearings failure makes a loud grinding noise. If you suspect this problem, it's only a matter of time before the alternator gives up. Older vehicles with generators tend to require much more maintenance than newer models, but there's no hard and fast rule for how long an alternator will last. If you have a failing alternator, the voltage will be well below 14 volts. If so, it's time to replace the alternator. Before you decide you need to yank the alternator and replace it, make sure you check the serpentine belt. If the belt is worn or loose, the alternator won't function properly.