Introduction and Basic Description. Methoxetamine is a dissociative anesthetic drug that was developed and marketed in the late 2000s. It is similar in terms of structure and effect to ketamine and PCP. 
DESCRIPTION. Methoxetamine is a near chemical analog of ketamine and PCP. Its use was first publicly reported in 2010. Methoxetamine's effects are described by some as similar to ketamine or high-dose DXM, while others report not finding it similar to those substances. A number of accounts describe compulsive redosing and unintentional consumption of more than was initially planned.
Methoxetamine. Methoxetamine (MXEMethoxetamine, 3-MeO-2-Oxo-PCE) is a near chemical analogue of Ketamine and PCP. It was first publicly reported in 2010. Some say it's similar to Ketamine or high doses of DXM
Methoxetamine (MXE) was a newly reported ‘legal high’, now a Class B drug. Although there is very little evidence about the short and long term effects of methoxetamine, we know that it is chemically related to ‘dissociative anaesthetics’ like ketamine and PCP, and therefore has similar effects and risks. 
Methoxetamine (MXE), or 3-MeO-2-Oxo-PCE is a dissociative drug that has been sold as a designer drug. Methoxetamine differs from many dissociatives such as ketamine and phencyclidine that were developed as pharmaceuticals in that it was designed for grey market distribution. Pharmacologically, methoxetamine acts as an NMDA receptor antagonist and a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Methoxetamine was designed in part to prevent the urotoxicity associated with ketamine abuse; it was thought the compound's increased potency and reduced dose would limit the accumulation of urotoxic metabolites in the bladder.
Methoxamine is an α1 - adrenergic receptor agonist, similar in structure to phenylephrine and 2,5-DMA. It was developed by Burroughs-Wellcome in the 1940s. 
Methoxetamine is a type of drug which has effects that are similar to those of Ketamine but different. The two also differ a lot when it comes to their dosage, where Methoxetamine requires much smaller doses to reach the desirable results than Ketamine. Bath Salts is actually a powerful stimulant that also has hallucinogenic properties. A relatively new psychotropic drug, it reportedly creates effects similar to other stimulants such as wakefulness, rapid heartbeat, reduction in appetite and anxiety.
MXE. Methoxetamine (MXE) is currently Unscheduled in the United States. Although several states have classified it as an illegal Schedule I drug including Indiana, Florida, Minnesota, North Dakota, Virginia, and Ohio. Mandatory Minimum Sentence: NA. Mechanism of Action: antagonist at the NMDA receptor. Overview : Methoxetamine is also referred to as MXE, Mexxy, Roflcopter, 3-Me-O-2-Oxo-PCE, and (2-(3-methoxyphenyl)-2-(ethylamino)cyclohexanone). MXE is a newly developed synthetic drug/research chemical.