Question: Travis, I just recently started my handyman business and my biggest concern right now is with pricing. How much should I charge for my services? Thanks, Jim Answer: Jim, There’s really not a one-size-fits-all approach to pricing your handyman services. 
For my handyman business, I’ve decided that 25 hours/week is a good amount of work. This allows me time to improve my business, have a personal life, and run this blog. I’ve based my work load on my own personal lifestyle design. For the purpose of figuring out your hourly rate, you will need to estimate this tax. After all expenses and tax write-offs, I don’t plan on making more than $30,000 this year. I’ve estimated my federal income tax at about 15% based on my expected tax bracket.
Starting Your Handyman Business. One thing I've learned in all my years of consulting and management, is to have a plan. If you plan on starting a handyman business, you need to review the tips below to ensure success. Note: Click the headers in blue to get more details on that subject. Starting a handyman business can be stressful, if you don't have the right help. As a business consultant, I've seen way too many successful businesses fail due to lack of paperwork.
If you have a knack for fixing things around the house you might want to give this business a shot. This site is here to help you start your own handyman business. It is full of articles on all of the various aspects of starting and running a handyman business. Feel free to browse and use any and all of the information you may find useful. Sign up for our newsletter about how to start a handyman business. Get tips for finding clients, managing work and more. You'll have to carefully consider every tool you buy, rent, borrow or make-do without for the first few months. Plus a list of suggested tools for your handyman business.
Once you've determined that you have the skills, interest, and resources to start a business, you have a couple of start up choices to consider. First, you could start from scratch by hanging your own shingle. Second, you could open a handyman franchise. Either option is viable depending on your circumstance. Starting a handyman business can be stressful, if you don't have the right help. As a business consultant, I've seen way too many successful businesses fail due to lack of paperwork.
Find your initial clients. One of the crucial elements of starting your handyman business is to get yourself a list of existing clients, partly to keep taking in start-up capital, and partly to establish yourself as a working business. How to Start a Handyman Business. In many communities around the world, enterprising business people start their own contracting businesses to provide homeowners and other property owners with the physical services they need to upkeep buildings and properties.
By the Hour. A handyman who works independently will usually charge around $60 to $65 an hour on average. Depending on where you live the actual price range can run from $55 to $75 for an independent operator. A handyman who is part of a larger business can charge up to $125 an hour or more. 
by Dan Perry. The start up costs for a handyman business are extremely low compared to most other types of businesses. If you already have the tools and the skills, you can get started for under $1,000. Just like with any other type of business, however, there are plenty of hidden costs that you may not see coming. In this post I’ll share how much you can expect to spend starting a handyman business. Handyman Business Start Up Costs. If you already have a lot of tools, are willing to do your own marketing, and don’t have a lot of money to spend, you can start a handyman business for a little over $500. Hopefully you have a little more than that to spend if your considering opening a business.