How long can you keep cooked salmon patties? Salmon needs to be refrigerated in a shallow air tight Tupperware  or wrapped tightly with in two hours of cooking. Cooked salmon is  usually good in the fridge for three or … four days and good in the  freezer for two to three months. This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time.
How Long can you keep steaks in the refrigerator before cooking? It depends, although from experience any type of meat should not be  stored in the refrigerator for more than 3 or 4 days, otherwise it  will start to go off. This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time. 26 people found this useful.
1. Salmon can be kept fresh in your refrigerator for up to two days. As soon as you bring your salmon home, unwrap it and wipe it down with a damp towel then wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the coldest area of your refrigerator. This is typically the back of the bottom drawer in the refrigerator. Salmon can be kept fresh in your freezer for up to eight weeks. When you bring home your fresh salmon take it out of the packaging, rinse it off using cold water and pat it dry. Cut your salmon into the desired portions and store it in freezer wrap, foil, freezer bags or an airtight freezer friendly container.
1. 0. You can keep smoked fish in the fridge for up to 2 weeks, or in the freezer for long-term storage. No, you do not have to recook afterward, as long as you smoke cooked it thoroughly to begin with
Cooked salmon can be kept in the refrigerator in a covered dish for  up to 4 days. Uncooked salmon should only be kept in the fridge for  2 to 3 days before cooking. Edit. This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time.
If you’re saving food in plastic bags, be sure to follow the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration guidelines for safe storage. Frozen foods can be stored indefinitely, but the flavor can change when food is stored past the time limits below. Refrigerator: 3 to 5 days. Freezer: 6 to 12 months. 
1 The precise answer to the question “How long does cooked salmon last?” depends to a large extent on storage conditions — refrigerate salmon within two hours of cooking. 
In the Refrigerator. Salmon can be kept fresh in your refrigerator for up to two days. As soon as you bring your salmon home, unwrap it and wipe it down with a damp towel then wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the coldest area of your refrigerator. This is typically the back of the bottom drawer in the refrigerator. Salmon can be kept fresh in your freezer for up to eight weeks. When you bring home your fresh salmon take it out of the packaging, rinse it off using cold water and pat it dry. Cut your salmon into the desired portions and store it in freezer wrap, foil, freezer bags or an airtight freezer friendly container.
Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil. This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time.