In recent years (most notably since 2003), the nickname Jack (for the more formal John and, to a lesser extent, for Jacob) has become increasingly used as the actual formal name (i.e., baptismal name rather than a nickname) for boys in England, Ireland, Northern Ireland, the United States, and Wales. 
It is often regarded as an independent name. During the Middle Ages it was very common, and it became a slang word meaning man. It was frequently used in fairy tales and nursery rhymes, such as 'Jack and the Beanstalk', 'Little Jack Horner', and 'Jack Sprat'. 
Notes: Jack is a name with English origins. When derived from the name John, the meaning of the name Jack is God is Gracious. When short for Jackson, it means Son of Jack. Nicknames of the name Jack include Jay and J.J., but it is mostly considered a nickname in itself. Jac and Jak are alternate spellings of the name Jack. 
Usage: Jack, of Hebrew origin, is a very popular first name. It is more often used as a boy (male) name. People having the name Jack are in general originating from Australia, Denmark, France, Ireland, Malta, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States of America. For another variant of the name Jack across the world, see Jacki
Meaning of Jack. English name. In English, the name Jack means-god is gracious. Other origins for the name Jack include-English, Hebrew.The name Jack is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-god is gracious.
Jack /jack/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced jak. It is of Old English and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jack is God is gracious; he who supplants. Name based on John (Hebrew), or Jacques, the French form of Jacob (Hebrew). The name has a rugged, down-to-earth aura. Jackie is used more for girls than for boys
Meanings and history of the name Jack : | Edit. Meanings of the name Jack. Hebrew: Supplanter. Polish: God is gracious. English: God is gracious. Fact: During the Middle Ages, Jack was so common that it was used as a general term for 'man' or 'boy'. Origin of the name Jack: Originally a pet form of John (God is gracious) and Jackson (son of Jack), Jack is now often be-stowed as an independent given name. Pet: Jackie, Jacky. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman
In Polish the meaning of the name Jack is: God is gracious. English Meaning: The name Jack is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jack is: God is gracious. During the Middle Ages, Jack was so common that it was used as a general term for 'man' or 'boy'. Famous Bearer: American actor Jack Lemmon. The name Jack is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jack is: Henry VI, Part 2' Jack Cade, a rebel. Hebrew Meaning: The name Jack is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jack is: Supplanter.