For the placenta of fruit, see placentation. The placenta (also known as afterbirth) is an organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to allow nutrient uptake, waste elimination, and gas exchange via the mother's blood supply, fight against internal infection and produce hormones to support pregnancy.
The placenta provides oxygen and nutrients to growing babies and removes waste products from the baby's blood. The placenta attaches to the wall of the uterus, and the baby's umbilical cord develops from the placenta. The umbilical cord is what connects the mother and the baby.
The placenta is an organ attached to the lining of the womb during pregnancy, and linked to the baby by the umbilical cord. It passes oxygen and nutrients from the mother's blood supply to the baby. Waste products from the baby, such as carbon dioxide, pass back along the umbilical cord to the placenta. After the baby is born, more contractions will push the placenta out-or it will be lifted from the womb during a Caesarean.
The placenta is an organ attached to the lining of your womb during pregnancy. It keeps your unborn baby’s blood supply separate from your own blood supply, as well as providing a link between the two. The link enables the placenta to carry out functions that your unborn baby can’t perform for itself.
The placenta is an organ that develops in your uterus during pregnancy. This structure provides oxygen and nutrients to your growing baby and removes waste products from your baby's blood. The placenta attaches to the wall of your uterus, and your baby's umbilical cord arises from it.
Placenta: A temporary organ that joins the mother and fetus, transferring oxygen and nutrients from the mother to the fetus and permitting the release of carbon dioxide and waste products from the fetus.
The placenta is an organ that develops during pregnancy in many animals, including humans. It is typically born after offspring, and is thus sometimes called an afterbirth. The function of the organ is to connect the mother's body to the fetus, allowing a relatively safe interface between the two bodies.