Starch. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice. ( 4 The majority of grain products in the US are made from wheat flour
Carbohydrates are an essential nutrient for your body. During digestion, they break down into glucose, or blood sugar, which is the primary source of fuel for all cells. Nearly all of the foods you eat contain carbohydrates. Meat, eggs and some types of seafood are the only foods that do not have carbs. 
Complex carbohydrates, often referred to as starchy foods, include: 1  Legumes, such as beans, peas, lentils and peanuts. 2  Starchy vegetables, such as potatoes, corn, green peas, and parsnips. 3  Whole-grain breads and cereals. 
Foods that contain carbohydrate or “carbs” are: 1  grains like rice, oatmeal, and barley. 2  grain-based foods like bread, cereal, pasta, and crackers. 3  starchy vegetables like potatoes, peas and corn. 4  fruit and juice. 5  milk and yogurt. 6  dried beans like pinto beans and soy products like veggie burgers. 
Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates. 
Foods containing simple carbohydrates include sugary fluids like soda or energy drinks, deserts, syrups, and processed foods. Complex carbohydrates include two types of foods: dietary fibers and starches. Foods with dietary fiber include nuts seed, fruits, beans, oatmeal, barley, bran, and vegetables. Starches include potatoes, beans, peas, corn, and some breads, cereals, and grains. The following foods have carbohydrates: 1  bread, bagels, muffins, crackers, tortillas, and crust. 2  cereal. 3  pasta, noodles, and rice. 4  starchy vegetables such as corn, peas, potatoes, and sweet potatoes. 5  pancakes and waffles. 6  dried beans (such as kidney or pinto beans) and peas (such as black-eyed or split peas)
Fruits, vegetables, grain foods, and many dairy products naturally contain carbohydrates in varying amounts, including sugars, which are a type of carbohydrate that can add taste appeal to a nutritious diet. Carbohydrate Classification. Carbohydrates encompass a broad range of sugars, starches, and fiber. 
Beans and Dairy. You can find carbohydrates in both beans and dairy products. Dairy products such as milk and yogurt contain simple carbohydrates, and beans contain complex carbohydrates. One cup of low-fat yogurt has 16 g of carbohydrates, and 1 cup of skim milk has 12 g. Choose lower-calorie dairy. Grains. Grains are an important source of carbohydrates, as they contain healthy fiber. Whole grains have undergone little processing, making these grains a low-glycemic food. According to the Harvard School of Public Health, carbohydrates with a low-glycemic index can help control blood sugar.