Fungal Skin Infections are caused by an excessive growth of fungus on the skin's surface, affecting the skin, hair or nails. Common fungal infections include ringworm, tinea versicolor, jock itch, male yeast infection and intertrigo, or skin fold rash. 
Intertrigo. Intertrigo is a yeast infection that you can get in the folds of your skin, such as on your abdomen (tummy), if you're overweight. It's often caused by the yeast Candida albicans. It affects areas where your skin presses or rubs together and can cause chafing. Around one in five people in the UK have athlete’s foot. It's caused by a fungus that grows in warm, damp areas of skin, such as between your toes. The fungal infection makes your skin itchy, flaky and red. It also causes white cracks to appear, especially between your toes and on the side of your foot. Occasionally it causes blisters
Certain medications may also increase the risk for this type of fungal infection. Corticosteroids are the most problematic, but birth control pills and antibiotics are other possible causes. If you take these types of medications, you should monitor your skin regularly for signs of Candida infections. Normally, your skin acts as an effective barrier against infection, but any cuts or breakdown in the superficial layers of the skin may allow the fungus to cause infection. Candida becomes pathogenic (capable of causing disease) when conditions are favorable for it to multiply.
Ringworm is a common, contagious skin infection. Ringworm is NOT caused by a worm. A type of fungus called a dermatophyte causes it. Dermatophytes also cause other common skin, hair, and nail infections, including athlete's foot and jock itch. 
1 It usually occurs between the two smallest toes. 2  This form of athlete's foot can cause itching, burning, and scaling and the infection can spread to the sole of the foot. 3  Moccasin: A moccasin-type infection of athlete's foot can begin with a minor irritation, dryness, itching, or scaly skin. Athlete's Foot. Athlete's foot, also called tinea pedis, is a fungal infection of the foot. It causes peeling, redness, itching, burning, and sometimes blisters and sores. Athlete's foot is a very common infectio
Candida skin infections can occur on almost any area of the body, but they are more commonly found in intertriginous regions, where two skin areas may touch or rub together. Such areas include the armpits, groin, and skin folds, as well as the area between your fingers and toes. Normally, your skin acts as an effective barrier against infection, but any cuts or breakdown in the superficial layers of the skin may allow the fungus to cause infection. Candida becomes pathogenic (capable of causing disease) when conditions are favorable for it to multiply.
1 This form of athlete's foot can cause itching, burning, and scaling and the infection can spread to the sole of the foot. 2  Moccasin: A moccasin-type infection of athlete's foot can begin with a minor irritation, dryness, itching, or scaly skin. 3  As it develops, the skin may thicken and crack. Athlete's Foot. Athlete's foot, also called tinea pedis, is a fungal infection of the foot. It causes peeling, redness, itching, burning, and sometimes blisters and sores. Athlete's foot is a very common infection
Overview. Candida is a strain of fungus that can cause an infection in your skin, among other locations. In normal conditions, your skin may host small amounts of this fungus, but problems arise when it begins to multiply and creates an overgrowth. Normally, your skin acts as an effective barrier against infection, but any cuts or breakdown in the superficial layers of the skin may allow the fungus to cause infection. Candida becomes pathogenic (capable of causing disease) when conditions are favorable for it to multiply.