A, Restored thoracic limbs in transverse section of the animal; b, section across a posterior somite; c, section across one of the sub-terminal somites.
The ventral region of the thoracic skeleton is complex, each segment usually possessing a median sternum with paired episterna (in front) and epimera (behind).
Definition. Thoracic surgery is the repair of organs located in the thorax, or chest. The thoracic cavity lies between the neck and the diaphragm, and contains the heart and lungs (cardiopulmonary system), the esophagus, trachea, pleura, mediastinum, chest wall, and diaphragm.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. The lungs are small and occupy only the dorsal portion of the thoracic cavity. The newly hatched insect closely resembles the parent, and the wing-rudiments appear externally on the second and third thoracic segments; but before the final moult the nymph remains quiescent, taking no food.
The nerves of the thorax: A number of nerves can be found in the thoracic cavity: The right vagus nerve enters the mediastinum anterior to the right subclavian artery, where it gives off the right recurrent laryngeal nerve.
The thoracic cavity is basically the chest, including everything between the neck and the diaphragm. It’s home to the thoracic organs and is protected by the thoracic cage. The heart and lungs are essential for survival and both are prone to certain diseases, so you need to be able to examine them.
the bony structure enclosing the thorax, consisting of the ribs, vertebral column and sternum. thoracic cavity. see thorax; called also chest. thoracic duct ligation. a surgical procedure used in the treatment of chylothorax where medical management is unsuccessful.
506519; and  On the Conformation of the Thoracic Extremity of the Trachea in the Class A y es, P.Z.S., 18 79, pp. 357-3 80; Muller, Stimmorgane der Passerinen, Mailer's Arch.
The cervical pleura runs from the superior thoracic aperture into the root of the neck to form a dome over the lungs. Each cavity contains recessed spaces called the costodiaphragmatic and costomediastinal recesses, which allow room for full expansion of the lungs during inspiration (breathing in).