1 Hang the backpack out to dry It is best if you can pick a nice day to clean your Jansport backpack. 2  If it is a nice day, just hang your backpack out in the sun to dry off. 3  The sun and air will also help to get rid of any smells that may be lingering on your backpack. 1 This is the best way to clean your Jansport backpack. 2  Wipe down the entire pack often To keep your backpack free of stains and looking it's best, it is a good idea to wipe down your backpack regularly. 3  Take a cloth that is dampened with water and wipe down the pack.
If you do wash a backpack in your washing machine (or in the sink), never put it in the dryer. Instead, let it airdry (outside is best), with a few towels stuffed inside the bag to absorb moisture and help the bag retain its shape. Even the grimiest of backpacks can get a new lease on life with a little effort! 
When in doubt whether a specific cleaning product is appropriate for your Jansport backpack, check the bag's tag and search online to find the best detergent for that specific fabric. You can wash most Jansport backpacks with a simple mild detergent and a damp cloth. First, remove all of the backpack's contents and examine it for dirt. Use a soft-bristle brush to loosen the excess dirt as much as possible. 
Scrub your backpack with a soft brush or rag. You can either fully submerge your backpack in the water, or use the water to dip your scrub brush or cleaning rag in. A brush will help clean areas that are particularly dirty, and a rag is suited better for general cleaning of the bag. 8. Rinse your backpack thoroughly. Rinse out any soap or detergent with lukewarm water to avoid getting a soapy residue on your backpack fabric. 1  Wring out the bag to the best of your abilities. 2  You can try laying the bag on a large body towel, and rolling the towel with the bag inside, until it looks like a tube.
When you need to clean a Jansport backpack, Jansport recommends that you never put the entire pack in the washer or dryer. The washer and dryer can do damage to the leather and metal areas of your backpack. Keep up with regular damp cloth cleaning to effectively clean a Jansport backpack. 1 This is the best way to clean your Jansport backpack. 2  Wipe down the entire pack often To keep your backpack free of stains and looking it's best, it is a good idea to wipe down your backpack regularly. 3  Take a cloth that is dampened with water and wipe down the pack.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Sarah Truitt. Confidence votes 74. If your Jansport Backpack has a leather bottom you do DO NOT want to place it in the wash, instead use a brush or rag to clean it by hand. Some sites would even suggest not using a washing machine at all, though many claim it will be fine as long as it does not have the leather bottom
You can then wash the exterior of your backpack in the same way, wiping off the main surfaces with the rag and using the brush to address any nooks or crannies where dirt has caked in. It is very important to note that you should never use soap and water on the leather components of a Jansport backpack. How to Buy Cleaning Supplies for a Jansport Backpack on eBay. You can get easy access to any of the supplies you need to clean your Jansport backpack on eBay. To seek out the products you need, just use the search bar, which you can find on any page on the site.
1 If your Jansport backpack has leather on it, it is best not to wash that area. 2  Hang the backpack out to dry It is best if you can pick a nice day to clean your Jansport backpack. 3  If it is a nice day, just hang your backpack out in the sun to dry off. 1 This is the best way to clean your Jansport backpack. 2  Wipe down the entire pack often To keep your backpack free of stains and looking it's best, it is a good idea to wipe down your backpack regularly. 3  Take a cloth that is dampened with water and wipe down the pack.
Best Answer: Jansport backpacks are really well made. If there is leather on it, you can't wash it, however. If there is a covered cardboard piece in the bottom that helps hold it's shape, you will probably want to remove that since getting the cardboard wet within the covering will make a mess. Do not wash it in the washing machine. You will void the warrenty and the inside will fray if washed in a machine. I followed the directions on Jansport's website and washed by hand with a mild soap (I used liquid laundry soap).