Yes, but you need to ensure the duvet is in a good condition beforehand, and make sure that your duvet is suitable to be machine washed. If the label says dry clean only, then it is best to take it to a professional cleaner. If not, then you can wash it carefully at home. First, check the duvet for any holes or loose feathers, and, if necessary, sew up any holes with a needle and thread to prevent any feathers becoming loose in the washing machine. 
You can't put it in the dryer. If this is a feather or down duvet with a wool cover, wash the cover separately from the down duvet. Most down duvets (and those filled with polyester) can be washed in a washing machine and dried in a dryer. Wool should be washed in cold by hand and dried either flat or on a line
1 Store it in a cool, well-ventilated closet. 2  Take care not to clean a down comforter too often as it can break down the feathers. 3  Alternatives to washing your down comforter are purchasing a dry-clean kit for your dryer and using a duvet cover to protect the bedding. 1
1 If you keep a duvet cover on the duvet, you'll rarely need clean it. 2  It's usually recommended that when necessary, you wash your duvet in a large, commercial washing machine. 3  Chemicals in dry cleaning can break down the fibers of the fill. 1 When it's partially dry, take it out, give it a good shake to break up damp clusters of filling, and finish the drying. 2  Hang a duvet out to air dry for at least 24 hours to make certain all sections are dry before replacing on the bed. 3  If you keep the duvet inside a duvet cover, it will stay clean and fresh for months.
Best Answer: Wash it in a very large capacity washer and dry on medium high. When you wash it, wash a couple of tennis balls with it and toss them into the dryer. Have a large clean and dry towel to throw into the dryer with the cover and balls. The towel helps absorb the moisture and the balls fluff.
1 Always protect your duvet with a cover. 2  Wash the duvet cover every time you wash your sheets. 3  If an accident occurs remove the cover immediately and clean. 4  Hang your duvet outside on a line once or twice a year to air freshen. If your duvet requires a maintenance cleaning we recommend that you employ the services of a professional cleaners. However, if you wish to clean your duvet yourself please; 1  Use a mild Soap only. 2  Rinse thoroughly. 3  Because of the size of duvets, most home washers and dryers cannot handle the load properly.
1 Move the down away from the area you wish to clean. 2  Use a mild soap or spot remover and gently rub it into the stain. 3  Rinse well with water; try not to wet any of the down. 4  Use either a hair dryer to dry the wet fabric or put it into a dryer and set on air fluff only. If your duvet requires a maintenance cleaning we recommend that you employ the services of a professional cleaners. However, if you wish to clean your duvet yourself please; 1  Use a mild Soap only. 2  Rinse thoroughly. 3  Because of the size of duvets, most home washers and dryers cannot handle the load properly.
1 Wash the duvet cover every time you wash your sheets. 2  If an accident occurs remove the cover immediately and clean. 3  Hang your duvet outside on a line once or twice a year to air freshen. 4  When storing a duvet, place the duvet in a breathable cover to allow any trapped moisture to dry. If your duvet requires a maintenance cleaning we recommend that you employ the services of a professional cleaners. However, if you wish to clean your duvet yourself please; 1  Use a mild Soap only. 2  Rinse thoroughly. 3  Because of the size of duvets, most home washers and dryers cannot handle the load properly.
1 Take care not to clean a down comforter too often as it can break down the feathers. 2  Alternatives to washing your down comforter are purchasing a dry-clean kit for your dryer and using a duvet cover to protect the bedding. 1