That life is very tenacious, scientists have discovered. Extremophiles have been found in volcanic vents with temperatures reaching far above boiling. And in 2007, the European Space Agency deliberately. on a Foton-M3 spacecraft and exposed them to the harsh vacuum of space. 
Extremophiles are organisms that have been discovered on earth that survive in environments that were once thought not to be able to sustain life. These extreme environments include intense heat, highly acidic environments, extreme pressure and extreme cold. Different organisms have developed varying ways of adapting to these environments, but most scientists agree that it is unlikely that life on Earth originated under such extremes. One type of extremophiles is called thermophiles. These organisms can survive at very high temperatures. In the 1960s, heat resistant bacteria were discovered in hot springs in Yellowstone National Park.
An extremophile (from Latin extremus meaning extreme and Greek philiā (φιλία) meaning love) is an organism that thrives in physically or geochemically extreme conditions that are detrimental to most life on Earth. Most known extremophiles are microbes. The domain Archaea contains renowned examples, but extremophiles are present in numerous and diverse genetic lineages of bacteria and archaeans. Furthermore, it is erroneous to use the term extremophile to encompass all archaeans, as some are mesophilic.
There are nine categories of extremophiles found on Earth: 1  Psychrophiles (extreme cold) — Organisms with the ability to survive at temperatures below –4° F. 2  Many psychrophiles produce special proteins that act as antifreeze agents and prevent them from freezing solid. 
Scientists coined the term extremophile, which means extreme-loving, to describe the creatures--and the hunt was on for more. Soon, extremophiles were found living in deep Antarctic ice, the cores of nuclear reactors, and other unexpected places. 
Cold-loving extremophiles, called psychrophiles, are most often bacteria, fungi or algae. These hardy microbes have been found living beneath sheets of ice in Siberia and Antarctica, where temperatures range from 23 to 68 degrees F (minus 5 to 20 degrees C). 
An extremophile is an organism that thrives in extreme environments. Extremophiles are organisms that live in extreme environments, under high pressure and temperature. Bacteria often form on the rocks near the hydrothermal vents. Pictured is the Sully Vent in the Main Endeavour Vent Field, NE Pacific. A bed of tube worms cover the base of the black smoker. Extremophiles are organisms with the ability to thrive in extreme environments such as hydrothermal vents. Since they live in “extreme environments” (under high pressure and temperature), they can tell us under which range of conditions life is possible.
An extremophile is an organism that thrives under extreme conditions. The term frequently refers to prokaryotes and is sometimes used interchangeably with Archaea. 1 Acidophile: An organism that grows best at acidic (low) pH values. 2  Alkaliphile: An organism that grows best at high pH values. 3  Anaerobe: An organism that can grow in the absence of oxygen. 4  Facultative Anaerobe: An organism that grows in the presence or
Characteristics [edit]. In the 1980s and 1990s, biologists found that microbial life has an amazing flexibility for surviving in extreme environments — niches that are extraordinarily hot, or acidic, for example — that would be completely inhospitable to complex organisms. Most known extremophiles are microbes. The domain Archaea contains renowned examples, but extremophiles are present in numerous and diverse genetic lineages of bacteria and archaeans. Furthermore, it is erroneous to use the term extremophile to encompass all archaeans, as some are mesophilic.
addition, the research into extremophile microbes has led to the confirmation that the new domain of living organisms-the archaea exists. Archaea are not the only extremophiles, there are some eukaryotes that live in such conditions. Microbial life has been found living: 