What is a Developmental Venous Anomaly (DVA)? DVA s, also known as venous angiomas, are a variation of normal brain anatomy and are found in up to 5% of people. They are blood vessels that provide a channel for blood to leave the brain. Looking through a microscope, they appear largely normal. It is important to recognize that DVAs are a variation in the normal anatomic pattern of blood flow. The blood vessels in a DVA are important as they help blood flow away from the brain and back to the heart.
Other types of congenital brain defects develop within the structure of the brain. 1  Hydrocephalus, or fluid on the brain, is an excessive buildup of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) due to impaired circulation of the CSF. 2  When there is excess fluid, it can put too much pressure on the brain. The brain begins to form in the first month after conception. Development of the brain begins from a small, special plate of cells on the surface of the embryo. These cells grow and form the different regions of the brain. When this process is disturbed, it can cause structural defects in the brain and skull.
Many different types of brain defects are caused by improper closure of this neural tube. One such congenital brain anomaly, anencephaly (literally without brain) results when the topmost portion of the tube fails to close and the brain does not develop. Anencephaly is the most common severe malformation seen in stillborn births. It is about four times more common in females than males. Congenital brain defects may have genetic, infectious, toxic, or traumatic causes. In most cases, no certain cause can be identified. GENETIC CAUSES Some brain defects are caused by trisomy, the inclusion of a third copy of a chromosome normally occurring in pairs.
About 3% of newborns have a major physical anomaly, meaning a physical anomaly that has cosmetic or functional significance. Physical congenital abnormalities are the leading cause of infant mortality in the United States, accounting for more than 20% of all infant deaths. 1 A congenital malformation is a congenital physical anomaly that is deleterious, i.e. a structural defect perceived as a problem. 2  A typical combination of malformations affecting more than one body part is referred to as a malformation syndrome.
Developmental venous anomaly. Dr Henry Knipe ◉ and Dr Donna D'Souza et al. Developmental venous anomaly (DVA) , also known as cerebral venous angioma, is a congenital malformation of veins which drain normal brain. They were thought to be rare before cross-sectional imaging but are now recognised as being the most common cerebral vascular malformation, accounting for ~55% of all such lesions. SWI is the preferred sequence in venous anomalies and proved to have better detectability of venous structures than conventional T2*-weighted imaging. Signals on SWI are not compromised by low-velocity venous flow. Therefore, SWI has successfully demonstrated low-flow vascular formations such as DVA.
Congenital brain defects are abnormalities in the brain that are present at birth. The defects typically affect the bone and soft tissue in the head and spine. There are many different types of these malformations. They can vary greatly from mild to severe conditions. The brain begins to form in the first month after conception. Development of the brain begins from a small, special plate of cells on the surface of the embryo. These cells grow and form the different regions of the brain. When this process is disturbed, it can cause structural defects in the brain and skull.
Anomaly: Any deviation from normal, out of the ordinary. In medicine, an anomaly is usually something that is abnormal at birth. 
Congenital disorder, also known as congenital disease, birth defect or anomaly, is a condition existing at or before birth regardless of cause. 1 A congenital malformation is a congenital physical anomaly that is deleterious, i.e. a structural defect perceived as a problem. 2  A typical combination of malformations affecting more than one body part is referred to as a malformation syndrome.
A vascular anomaly is a localized defect in blood vessels that can affect each part of the vasculature (capillaries, arteries, veins, lymphatics or a combination of these). A vascular anomaly is a kind of birthmark caused by a disorder of the vascular development, although it is not always present at birth.
Developmental Venous Anomalies. A developmental venous anomaly (DVA) is an arrangement of small blood vessels that may look like the spokes of a wheel that drain into a larger central vein. DVAs also may be referred to as venous angiomas. 