KDE is a powerful open source graphical desktop environment for Unix workstations. It combines ease of use, contemporary functionality, and outstanding graphical design with the technological superiority of the Unix operating system. Xfce is a lightweight desktop environment for various *NIX systems. Desktop Environment. The GNOME project provides two things: The GNOME desktop environment, an intuitive and attractive desktop for users, and the GNOME development platform, an extensive framework for building applications that integrate into the rest of the desktop.
Unity is a desktop environment-based on Gnome. GNOME is a desktop environment that uses GTK+ as its GUI toolkit. KDE is another desktop environment. It's more like Windows in general style and uses Qt as its GUI toolkit. The good news is that Qt applications run just fine in Unity. The medium news is that some applications written for KDE use quite a lot of the KDE desktop and pull in a lot of dependencies.
It is known for its Plasma Desktop, a desktop environment which is provided as the default work environment on many Linux distributions, such as openSUSE, Mageia, and Kubuntu. It is also the default desktop environment on PC-BSD, a BSD operating system. The name KDE was intended as a wordplay on the existing Common Desktop Environment, available for Unix systems. CDE is an X11-based user environment jointly developed by HP, IBM, and Sun through the X/Open consortium, with an interface and productivity tools based on the Motif graphical widget toolkit.
The default desktop environment of Fedora is GNOME, but if you prefer an alternative desktop environment such as KDE Plasma Desktop or Xfce, you can download a spin for your preferred desktop environment and use that to install Fedora, pre-configured for the desktop environment of your choice. 
GNOME, KDE and Xfce are the most popular desktop environments for Linux. Most people end up using the default desktop environment that ships with their preferred Linux distribution. But experienced users prefer one over the year for either usability, performance, design or customizability considerations. While KDE is one of them; GNOME is not. However, Linux Mint is available in versions where the default desktop is MATE (a fork of GNOME 2) or Cinnamon (a fork of GNOME 3). Defaults aside, both GNOME and KDE are supported by popular GNU/Linux and BSD distributions.
The KDE Plasma Workspaces provide a modern and customizable environment for running your favourite applications and accessing your information wherever it may be. Plasma Desktop, a home/workstation desktop targeting workspace, is a default one but Plasma Netbook is also provided. 
K Desktop Environment (KDE) was founded in 1996 by Matthias Ettrich, who was then a student at the Eberhard Karls University of Tuebingen. Tübingen at the, time he was troubled by certain aspects of The unix. Desktop among his concerns was that none of the applications, looked, felt or worked. alike The name KDE was intended as a wordplay on the existing Common Desktop Environment, available for Unix systems. CDE is an X11-based user environment jointly developed by HP, IBM, and Sun through the X/Open consortium, with an interface and productivity tools based on the Motif graphical widget toolkit.
In computing, a desktop environment (DE) is an implementation of the desktop metaphor made of a bundle of programs running on top of a computer operating system, which share a common graphical user interface (GUI). The desktop environment was seen mostly on personal computers until the rise of mobile computing. 
KDE and Gnome are complete desktop environments that consist of a large number of tightly integrated yet still separate pieces of software. Gnome uses a window manager called metacity, KDE uses kwin. Both these desktops can be used with any other window manager if you do not like the default choice. Linux is like Lego. You can build your own desktop environment. Both KDE and Gnome are just big packages with software aimed to look and feel the same way, work well together and generally give you a nice experience. If you dislike a component, then replace it with something else. It's that simple
The KDE® Community is an international technology team dedicated to creating a free and user-friendly computing experience, offering an advanced graphical desktop, a wide variety of applications for communication, work, education and entertainment and a platform to easily build new applications upon. 