A balanced equation has equal numbers of each type of atom on each side of the equation. The Law of Conservation of Matter is the rationale for balancing a chemical equation. It is defined as: the total mass of materials present after a chemical reaction is the same as the total mass before the reaction. 1. If there is an element that is not bonded to any other atom or is diatomic (H2, N2, O2, F2, Cl2, Br2, I2) balance it last. For example, in the equation: CO 2 + H 2 6 H 12 O 6 + O 2, oxygen is diatomic(O 2). When balancing this equation, balance oxygen last.
1) You cannot change a subscript. You cannot change the oxygen's subscript in water from one to two, as in: H 2 + O 2 2 O 2. True, this balances the equation, but you have changed the substances in it. H 2 O 2 is a completely different substance from H 2 O. 2) You cannot place a coefficient in the middle of a formula.
An equation is balanced by changing coefficients in a somewhat trial-and-error fashion. It is important to note that only the coefficients can be changed, NEVER a subscript. The coefficient times the subscript gives the total number of atoms. Three quick examples before balancing the equation. You cannot change the oxygen's subscript in water from one to two, as in: H 2 + O 2 2 O 2. True, this balances the equation, but you have changed the substances in it. H 2 O 2 is a completely different substance from H 2 O. 2) You cannot place a coefficient in the middle of a formula.
Remember this: A balanced equation MUST have EQUAL numbers of EACH type of atom on BOTH sides of the arrow. An equation is balanced by changing coefficients in a somewhat trial-and-error fashion. It is important to note that only the coefficients can be changed, NEVER a subscript. Important point: the coefficient times the subscript gives the total number of atoms. Three quick examples before balancing the equation. All chemical calculations you will see in other units must be done with a balanced equation. IMPORTANT DEFINITION: A balanced equation has equal numbers of each type of atom on each side of the equation. The Law of Conservation of Mass is the rationale for balancing a chemical equation.
The subscripts determine what the chemicals are, you have to change the amount of the reactants/products rather than change what the reactants/products actually are. eg O2 is oxygen gas, if you wanted 4 of them to balance it it would have to be 2 O2 otherwise it wouldnt be oxygen gas any more 1  :). Comments (1). The subscripts determine what the chemicals are, you have to change the amount of the reactants/products rather than change what the reactants/products actually are. eg O2 is oxygen gas, if you wanted 4 of them to balance it it would have to be 2 O2 otherwise it wouldnt be oxygen gas any more :).
· just now. Report Abuse. The answer is simple: Changing coefficents helps balance the amounts (moles) of products and reactants as well as the number of each type of atom. Do not change subscripts, because doing that would change the chemical compostions of the reaction. You might as well be writing a totally incorrect equation. You can change subscripts because if you change those subscripts, the chemical properties of that chemical.
Answer 1 To balance an equation means that there are the same number of each element on each side. The reason a subscript cannot change is that it represents the amount of an … element within a certain compound in relation to any other elements. If that ratio changes, it is no longer the same compound. Changing a subscript changes a formula so that it no longer stands for the correct substance. Answer 2 The point of balancing an equation is to find the ratios in which chemicals will react or be produced. By changing the equation, you change the reaction. Therefore you are not trying to balance the same reaction. Answer 3 A balanced chemical equation is the standard way of writing equations for chemical reactants because it follows the LAW OF CONSERVATION OF MASS. A subscript in the formula can not be changed when balancing an equation because changing a subscript would make the formula describe a different compound, or rather more likely a non-existent compound.
For example, in the following equation you cannot change oxygen's subscript in water from one to two, as in: H 2 + O 2 2 O 2. True, this balances the equation, but you have changed the substances in it. H 2 O 2 is a completely different substance from H 2 O. 2. 1. If there is an element that is not bonded to any other atom or is diatomic (H2, N2, O2, F2, Cl2, Br2, I2) balance it last. For example, in the equation: CO 2 + H 2 6 H 12 O 6 + O 2, oxygen is diatomic(O 2). When balancing this equation, balance oxygen last.
Answer 1 To balance an equation means that there are the same number of each element on each side. The reason a subscript cannot change is that it represents the amount of an … element within a certain compound in relation to any other elements. If that ratio changes, it is no longer the same compound. Changing a subscript changes a formula so that it no longer stands for the correct substance. Answer 2 The point of balancing an equation is to find the ratios in which chemicals will react or be produced. By changing the equation, you change the reaction. Therefore you are not trying to balance the same reaction. Answer 3 A balanced chemical equation is the standard way of writing equations for chemical reactants because it follows the LAW OF CONSERVATION OF MASS. A subscript in the formula can not be changed when balancing an equation because changing a subscript would make the formula describe a different compound, or rather more likely a non-existent compound.