From the age of nineteen Wilfred Owen wanted to become a poet and immersed himself in poetry, being especially impressed by Keats and Shelley. He was working in France, close to the Pyrenees, as a private tutor when the First World War broke out. Few would challenge the claim that Wilfred Owen is the greatest writer of war poetry in the English language. He wrote out of his intense personal experience as a soldier and wrote with unrivalled power of the physical, moral and psychological trauma of the First World War.
In his letters of 1917, Owen refers to ‘war impressions’, ‘war poem’ and ‘War Poetry’, but in the celebrated Preface (1918) to his intended collection of poems, he eschewed the term ‘war poet’: ‘That is why the true War Poets must be truthful’. 
On 11 November 1985, Owen was one of the 16 Great War poets commemorated on a slate stone unveiled in Westminster Abbey 's Poet's Corner. The inscription on the stone is taken from Owen's Preface to his poems: My subject is War, and the pity of War. Wilfred Edward Salter Owen MC (18 March 1893 – 4 November 1918) was an English poet and soldier, one of the leading poets of the First World War.
As the American Civil War was beginning, American poet Walt Whitman published his poem  Beat! Beat! Drums!  as a patriotic rally call for the North. Whitman volunteered for a time as a nurse in the army hospitals, and his collection Drum-Taps (1865) deals with his experiences during the War. Canadian war poets of this period included John McCrae, who wrote In Flanders Fields, and Robert W. Service who worked as an ambulance driver for the Canadian Red Cross and was a war correspondent for the Canadian government.
Rob a man of everything and that man will no longer be in your power. People write war poetry for the same reason they write love poems, funny poems, thoughtful poems, and every other form in which verse appears. Essentially, that reason is that poetry is about human emotion, experience, observation, and thought. William Shakespear was the first person to write poetry as poetry not a … song that is spoken. He put his poetry into plays so he was really the first proper poet who was famous.
For the first time, a substantial number of important British poets were soldiers, writing about their experiences of war. A number of them died on the battlefield, most famously Edward Thomas, Isaac Rosenberg, Wilfred Owen, and Charles Sorley. Canadian war poets of this period included John McCrae, who wrote In Flanders Fields, and Robert W. Service who worked as an ambulance driver for the Canadian Red Cross and was a war correspondent for the Canadian government.
World War One more than any other war is associated with the so-called ‘war poets’. The poems written by men such as Wilfred Owen, Siegfried Sassoon and Rupert Brooke, amongst others, is as poignant today as it was both during the war and immediately after it. World War Two did not produce such a flow of poetry targeted at the lifestyle of those who fought in the war. The majority of war poets were influenced by the ‘Georgian’ poetry movement. The accepted leader of this movement was Edward Marsh who owned a poetry bookshop in London. He was also a patron of a number of young poets who were yet to make their names, as the war was some years off.
Owen is regarded by many as the greatest poet of the First World War, known for his war poetry on the horrors of trench and gas warfare. He had been writing poetry for some years before the war, himself dating his poetic beginnings to a stay at Broxton by the Hill, when he was ten years old. Wilfred Edward Salter Owen MC (18 March 1893 – 4 November 1918) was an English poet and soldier, one of the leading poets of the First World War.
A war poet is usually defined as a poet who participates in a war and writes about his experiences. While the term is applied especially to those who served during World War I, it is documented as early as 1848, in reference to German revolutionary poet, Georg Herwegh. and is now applied to a poet writing about any war. Canadian war poets of this period included John McCrae, who wrote In Flanders Fields, and Robert W. Service who worked as an ambulance driver for the Canadian Red Cross and was a war correspondent for the Canadian government.