1 Eukaryotic cells have a true nucleus, bound by a double membrane. 2  Prokaryotic cells have no nucleus. 3  The purpose of the nucleus is to sequester the DNA-related functions of the big eukaryotic cell into a smaller chamber, for the purpose of increased efficiency. Protists, fungi, plants and animals are made to be Eukaryotic. Eukaryotic Cells have a true nu … cleus bound by a membrane, while prokaryotic cells contain a nucleoid region. The nucleoid region in a prokaryotic cell generally has no boundaries so it is just generally where the DNA is located in the cell.
The difference between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell is eukaryotic cell is inside of people, plants, and animals. The prokaryotic is a bacteria cell Study Island: Prokaryot … ic cells do not have a true nucleus or membrane-bound organelles. 30 people found this useful. Protists, fungi, plants and animals are made to be Eukaryotic. Eukaryotic Cells have a true nu … cleus bound by a membrane, while prokaryotic cells contain a nucleoid region. The nucleoid region in a prokaryotic cell generally has no boundaries so it is just generally where the DNA is located in the cell.
This is a big hint about one of the differences between these two cell types. Prokaryotic cells have no nuclei, while eukaryotic cells do have true nuclei. This is far from the only difference between these two cell types, however. 1 A eukaryotic cell contains a number of chromosomes; a prokaryotic cell contains only one circular DNA molecule and a varied assortment of much smaller circlets of DNA called plasmids.. 2  The smaller, simpler prokaryotic cell requires far fewer genes to operate than the eukaryotic cell.
The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA. 1 The cell walls of prokaryotes are generally formed of a different molecule (peptidoglycan) to those of eukaryotes (many eukaryotes do not have a cell wall at all). 2  Prokaryotes are usually much smaller than eukaryotic cells.
Thank you... All cells are broadly classified into prokaryotic cells and eukaryotic cells, according to whether their genetic materials are enclosed by a nuclear envelope or not. Prokaryotic cells (pro-primitive, karyon-nucleus): From the morphological point of view, prokaryotic cells are the most primitive cells. They do not contain a definite nucleus. The chromatin bodies remain scattered inside the cytoplasm. Such a type of nucleus without a nuclear membrane is called a nucleoid. 
Some things which seem to be differences aren't. For example, the prokaryotic cell has a cell wall, and this animal cell does not. However, many kinds of eukaryotic cells do have cell walls. Despite all of these similarities, the differences are also clear. 1 A eukaryotic cell contains a number of chromosomes; a prokaryotic cell contains only one circular DNA molecule and a varied assortment of much smaller circlets of DNA called plasmids.. 2  The smaller, simpler prokaryotic cell requires far fewer genes to operate than the eukaryotic cell.
1 Both cell types have many, many ribosomes, but the ribosomes of the eukaryotic cells are larger and more complex than those of the prokaryotic cell. 2  Ribosomes are made out of a special class of RNA molecules (ribosomal RNA, or rRNA) and a specific collection of different proteins. 1 A eukaryotic cell contains a number of chromosomes; a prokaryotic cell contains only one circular DNA molecule and a varied assortment of much smaller circlets of DNA called plasmids.. 2  The smaller, simpler prokaryotic cell requires far fewer genes to operate than the eukaryotic cell.
1 Both cell types have many, many ribosomes, but the ribosomes of the eukaryotic cells are larger and more complex than those of the prokaryotic cell. 2  Ribosomes are made out of a special class of RNA molecules (ribosomal RNA, or rRNA) and a specific collection of different proteins. Protists, fungi, plants and animals are made to be Eukaryotic. Eukaryotic Cells have a true nu … cleus bound by a membrane, while prokaryotic cells contain a nucleoid region. The nucleoid region in a prokaryotic cell generally has no boundaries so it is just generally where the DNA is located in the cell.
In terms of differences, eukaryotic cells are much larger and more complex than prokaryotic cells. On average, a typical eukaryotic cell is about 1,000 X larger in volume than a typical prokaryotic cell. Because of their much larger size, eukaryotic cells generally have much more DNA than prokaryotic cells, and there is a much greater degree of compartmentalization and division of labor within a eukaryotic cell. Biologists recognize 2 basic cell types: prokaryotic and eukaryotic. The earliest cells on earth were relatively simple prokaryotic cells. Over billions of years, some of these early prokaryotic cells evolved into present-day prokaryotic cells, while others evolved into much larger and more complex eu