Also, drugs alcohol can be detected in urine for about 2-3 days. Many factors determine how long a particular drug can be detected in a person, including that person's age, weight, sex, metabolic rate, overall health, amount of drug consumed over what period of time, etc. 7 people found this useful. For a normal person with a healthy liver, alcohol is metabolized at around 0.02% BAC per hour. One drink, depending on body mass, is about 0.02% BAC, so one drink would take o … ne hour to clear, five drinks would take five hours to clear, etc.
ETG can be detected for 3-4 days roughly 80 hours after the body has reached a BAC of 0.00. ETG is used for cases where there is a zero tolerance policy of drinking. Obviously the alcohol has left the system but this test can tell if a person has drank alcohol in the past 80 hours. 
If the test being administered is an EtG test, it generally goes like this:   1 standard drink (1 oz - 1.5 ounzes of ethanol) can be detected for about 24 hours, 2-3 drink for about 36 hours, 3-5 drink 2-3 days, and so on. For a normal person with a healthy liver, alcohol is metabolized at around 0.02% BAC per hour. One drink, depending on body mass, is about 0.02% BAC, so one drink would take o … ne hour to clear, five drinks would take five hours to clear, etc.
Expert: Family Physician replied 3 years ago. Alcohol is metabolized at the rate of approximately 1 drink (1 beer, 1 shot or 1 glass of wine) per hour. Even if you use a more conservative time of 1 1/2 hour per drink, the detection period for 2 drinks would be about 3 hours, 6 drinks in about 9 hours etc. 
Usually, alcohol would stay within your system for around 24 hours after you have had a few drinks and this would be the time period during which it would be detectable in your urine. However, there are a few special tests which can detect its presence in urine for up to 48 hours. Here is a list of alcohol drug tests and the answer to how long is alcohol detectable in urine with each test. Breathalyzer Test: 24 hours. Urine Test: 9-13 hours (if traditional method used). Urine Test: 72-96 hours (if done using EGT (Ethyl Gluconoride) metabolite).
Alcohol (EtOh) can be detected up to 1- 1-1/2 days after consumption. EtG, a byproduct produced in our livers after alcohol is metabolized can be detected for up to 3-4 days a … fter the last drink. For a normal person with a healthy liver, alcohol is metabolized at around 0.02% BAC per hour. One drink, depending on body mass, is about 0.02% BAC, so one drink would take o … ne hour to clear, five drinks would take five hours to clear, etc.
The EtG test has become known as the “80 hour test” for detecting any amount of consumed ethyl alcohol. This is not totally true. It is true that EtG can be detected in chronic drinkers for 80 hours or even up to 5 days. During this period of chronic use, the EtG level can exceed 100,000 ng/mL. Two primary factors to determine the window of detection is based on volume of alcohol consumed and the time between each drink.
One serving of alcohol is fully absorbed into the blood stream within 30 minutes to 2 hours after intake. This is because the body can metabolize about 0.25 ounces of alcohol per hour. However, the effects of alcohol vary by individual and by how much alcohol they drink in one session. 
EtG can be detected in the blood for up to 36 hours and in the urine for up to 5 days after heavy alcohol use. In addition to blood and urine, EtG is detectable in other body fluids, hair, and body tissues (Wurst et al. 
Report Abuse. A blood alcohol test measures the amount of alcohol (ethanol) in your body. Alcohol is quickly absorbed into the blood and can be measured within 40 to 70 minutes after you have consumed any alcoholic drink. The amount of alcohol in the blood reaches its highest level about an hour after drinking. However, food in the stomach may increase the amount of time it takes for the blood alcohol to reach its highest level. About 90% of alcohol is broken down in the liver.