In light frame construction, a birdsmouth joint or bird's beak cut is a woodworking joint that is generally used to connect a roof rafter to the top plate of a supporting wall. 
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: beak (noun). beaklike mouth of animals other than birds (e.g., turtles). beak, bill, neb, nib, pecker (noun). horny projecting mouth of a bird. beak (noun). a beaklike, tapering tip on certain plant structures. Beak (noun). a continuous slight projection ending in an arris or narrow fillet; that part of a drip from which the water is thrown off. Beak (noun). any process somewhat like the beak of a bird, terminating the fruit or other parts of a plant. Beak (noun). a toe clip.
Parrots are often called hookbills, which is an avicultural term based on the shape of the beak or bill. This distinguishes parrots from softbills and other birds, such as doves and finches. The function of the parrot beak is for climbing, as well as manipulating and crushing objects. In other birds, the upper beak is fused to the skull and does not move. Under the keratin covering, the beak has an excellent blood supply and a network of nerve endings, which provide parrots an amazing tactile sensory ability. The most sensitive area is at the tip of the upper beak (Figure 4 in slideshow).
Home ... Health Management. Beak trimmed bird. Beak trimming is the removal of part of the top and bottom beak of a bird. It is also called “debeaking”, although this term is inaccurate as only part of the beak is removed. It is an animal husbandry practice commonly carried out in the poultry industry
A bird’s bill comprises two parts. The upper portion of a bird’s bill is called the maxillary rostrum, which consists of the premaxilla bone (or maxilla) and the maxillary beak (or rhinotheca). The lower portion of the bill is known as the mandibular rostrum and is made up of the mandibular bone (or mandible) and the mandibular beak (or gnathotheca).
Full Definition of BEAK. 1. a: the bill of a bird; especially: a strong short broad bill b (1) : the elongated sucking mouth of some insects (as the true bugs) (2) : any of various rigid projecting mouth structures (as of a turtle) c: the human nose. 2. : a pointed structure or formation: a: a metal-pointed beam projecting from the bow especially of an ancient galley for piercing an enemy ship b: the spout of a vessel c: a continuous slight architectural projection ending in an arris — see molding illustration d: a process suggesting the beak of a bird.
Although the word 'beak' was, in the past, generally restricted to the sharpened bills of birds of prey, in modern ornithology, the terms 'beak' and 'bill' are generally considered to be synonymous. 
The noun BEAK has 3 senses: 1. beaklike mouth of animals other than birds (e.g., turtles). 2. horny projecting mouth of a bird. 3. informal terms for the nose. Familiarity information: BEAK used as a noun is uncommon.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: beak (Noun). A rigid structure projecting from the front of a bird's face, used for pecking, grooming and for eating food. beak (Noun). A similar structure forming the jaws of an octopus. beak (Noun). The metal point fixed on the bows of a war galley, used as a ram. beak (Noun). A justice of the peace, magistrate, headmaster or other person of authority. beak (Noun). The human nose, especially one that is large and pointed. Beak (noun). a continuous slight projection ending in an arris or narrow fillet; that part of a drip from which the water is thrown off. Beak (noun). any process somewhat like the beak of a bird, terminating the fruit or other parts of a plant. Beak (noun). a toe clip.