Divide total utility costs by total business costs to find the decimal portion of utility expenses. For example, if your annual utility costs are $25,000 and your total business expenses are $400,000, then the portion of your total costs represented by your utility costs is $25,000 divided by $400,000, or 0.0625. Step 5. These include a number of utility costs for items such as electricity, water and natural gas. You can determine the percentage of total costs that your business spends on utilities with some straightforward arithmetic.
1 Small Business insurance costs are up 25% since January 2012. 2  Utilities expenses for Small Business doubled in the first half of 2012. 3  50% of business expense receipts are generated “on the go”. Here are some interesting trends we have observed for 2012 so far: 1 
Required rent deposits are usually equal to the cost of one month's rent and utility deposits typically begin at $100 per utility. If you run an online retail business as opposed to a storefront, you will not likely have the overhead associated with a brick-and-mortar operation. A business plan serves as a road map for planning every detail of how a retail business will be launched and is a necessary tool for applying for business loans. A professional can be hired to write a business plan on behalf of a retail business. Anticipate fees ranging from $75 to $150 per hour.
Answers. Best Answer: Utilty costs vary based on the utilties you need, location, and other factors. However, a commonly quoted average to use for planning a budget is $0.20 (20 cents) per square foot per month for energy (electricity, gas). Deposits are typically one to two months of usage
Inventory. The type of retail inventory you need will be based on the merchandise you offer. According to tax and accounting professionals at Chicago-based PFS Financial Services, the average cost for filling a 500-square-foot mid-range retail store is $20,000. This cost can be substantially reduced if you are an online drop-ship merchandiser. A business plan serves as a road map for planning every detail of how a retail business will be launched and is a necessary tool for applying for business loans. A professional can be hired to write a business plan on behalf of a retail business. Anticipate fees ranging from $75 to $150 per hour.
Electricity bill averages for about 100$ to.... 2. 1. The average cost of utility bills in San Antonio, Texas is quite affordable. Electricity bill averages for about 100$ to 200$ a month depending on your home size and the season of course. Water bill from 40$ to 60$. Phone would be about 100$. 
You have to consider the size of your apartment and the general climate. An average electric bill may be as low as $30 per month or as high as $100. Gas may cost, on average, anywhere from $40 to $150 and can fluctuate depending on the season. Although many apartments have an apartment complex trash can in which you can deposit your garbage, you’re still likely to be billed for pickup. If your complex follows average utility costs, you could expect to pay between $10 and $40 a month for trash pickup.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The average cost of utilities on a small business will depend on the actual size of the business. In some cases, utilities will be very cheap. In 2014, the average cost of Internet in the United States is an  estimated $50.00 a month. There are different packages that may  result in cheaper Internet.