Tarragon, parsley, marjoram, and rosemary are all good substitutes for thyme, since they have a mild flavor. Basil and oregano can also be used, but these typically have a bold flavor. Italian seasoning is a blend of common herbs and spices, and it can also be used in place of thyme. Tarragon is often considered to be a good substitute for thyme. Like thyme, it has a mild flavor, that is just barely noticeable. Many culinary experts recommend using this in fish and chicken dishes.
For any herb, you can substitute 1 teaspoon dried herb for 1 tablespoon fresh herb. Basil: oregano or thyme. Bay leaf: For 1 bay leaf, substitute 1/4 teaspoon crushed bay leaf or 1/4 teaspoon thyme. Chervil: tarragon or parsley. Chives: green onion, onion, or leek.
Get our Free emergency substitutions chart! Herb Substitute Guide For any herb, you can substitute 1 teaspoon dried herb for 1 tablespoon fresh herb. Basil: oregano or thyme Bay leaf: For 1 bay leaf, substitute 1/4 teaspoon crushed bay leaf or 1/4 teaspoon thyme.
A traditional herb in Mediterranean cuisines, where it is often paired with lemon, thyme brings a pungent aroma to various dishes, including meat and fish. The herb is part of the extended mint family and can be used fresh or dried, although fresh has a more pure flavor.
Dried sage is an excellent substitute for fresh. Substitutes: poultry seasoning OR rosemary OR thyme. savory Notes: This herb has a strong, peppery flavor, and it's often used in Mediterranean countries to flavor beans, mushrooms, vegetables, and meats.
This mix of herbs and spices actually contains thyme, so it could be considered to be a good substitute for thyme. Other herbs in Italian seasoning include rosemary, marjoram, sage, basil, and oregano. Like basil and thyme, Italian seasoning typically has a strong, distinctive flavor.
Thyme is a herb that is mainly used for cooking as a seasoning, as well as a condiment and it also used in pickling. Thyme can be found in fragrances and can be used for cosmetics and medicinal uses. It has a minty flavor which complements all kinds of foods like fish, meat and vegetables.