And when that you have done this, If you chance Sir Andrew for to board, Let no man to his topcastle go; And I will give a glass, my lord, And then you need to fear no Scot, Whether you sail by day or by night; And tomorrowe'en, by seven of the clock, You shall meet with Sir Andrew Barton, knight. Now, Peter Simon, thou art old; I will maintain thee and thy son; Thou shalt have five hundred pound all in gold For the good service that thou hast done.. Then King Henry shifted his room; In came the Queen and ladies bright; Other errands they had none But to see
Fight on, my men! says Sir Andrew Barton; Weate, howsoever this gear will sway, It is my Lord Admiral of England Is come to seek me on the sea.. Simon had a son; with shot of a gun-- Well Sir Andrew might it ken-- He shot it in at a privy pace, And killed sixty more of Sir Andrew's men. Harry Hunt came in at the other side, At at Sir Andrew he shot then; He drove down his foremast-tree, And killed eighty more of Sir Andrew's men. Now, Peter Simon, thou art old; I will maintain thee and thy son; Thou shalt have five hundred pound all in gold For the good service that thou hast done.. Then King Henry shifted his room; In came the Queen and ladies bright; Other errands they had none But to see Sir Andrew Barton, knight.
King Henry turned red with anger. Who dares treat English ships in this manner!. The merchants sighed and said, He is a proud Scott named Sir Andrew Barton, an admiral at one time in the Scottish Navy, that will rob us all even if he is outnumbered 20 to 1. His ship, The Lion, has fifteen cannons on both sides, as well as cannons fore and aft. What can a man say, replied the Scottish admiral, the thief who was my prisoner ere yesterday has now become my greatest enemy.. Then Sir Andrew Barton called out to his first mate. Mr. Gordon, he cried.  I will give you 300 pounds if you will let my beams fall down..
I'll go speak with Sir Andrew, says Charles, my lord Howard; Upon the sea, if he be there; I will bring him and his ship to shore, Or before my prince I will never come near.. The first of all my lord did call, A noble gunner he was one; This man was three score years and ten, And Peter Simon was his name. Now, Peter Simon, thou art old; I will maintain thee and thy son; Thou shalt have five hundred pound all in gold For the good service that thou hast done.. Then King Henry shifted his room; In came the Queen and ladies bright; Other errands they had none But to see Sir Andrew Barton, knight.
Sir Andrew Barton [Child 167]. Go to the Ballad Search form. Go to the Ballad Index Song List. Go to the Ballad Index Instructions. Go to the Ballad Index Bibliography or Discography. The Ballad Index Copyright 2015 by Robert B. Waltz and David G. Engle. 
Sir Andrew Barton (c. 1466 – 2 August 1511) was a Scottish sailor from Leith, who served as High Admiral of the Kingdom of Scotland. John's ships had been attacked by Portuguese vessels when he was trading at Sluis in Flanders. James IV revived the letters in July 1507. When Andrew Barton, sailing in the Lion tried to take reprisals against Portuguese ships in 1508, he was detained by Dutch authorities at Veere.
The letter of marque against Portuguese shipping was originally granted to his father John Barton by James III of Scotland before 1485. John's ships had been attacked by Portuguese vessels when he was trading at Sluis in Flanders. James IV revived the letters in July 1507. When Andrew Barton, sailing in the Lion tried to take reprisals against Portuguese ships in 1508, he was detained by Dutch authorities at Veere. James IV had to write to Maximilian, the Holy Roman Emperor, and others to get him released in 1509
The Barton family in Scotland were a famous family of mariners and naval officers. About 1500, an Alexander Barton married a Susan Stedman who was the heiress of family land in Scotland. He petitioned Queen Mary of Scotland to assume the Stedman name, and he became Charles Stedman. All of the documented Scottish Stedman families who came to America are descended from this man.
Some of Andrew Barton's trading voyages to Flanders ports in the 1490s are recorded in the Ledger of Andrew Halyburton. John's ships had been attacked by Portuguese vessels when he was trading at Sluis in Flanders. James IV revived the letters in July 1507. When Andrew Barton, sailing in the Lion tried to take reprisals against Portuguese ships in 1508, he was detained by Dutch authorities at Veere.
A Scottish officer, Sir Andrew Barton, was attacked by the Portuguese. Letters of marque were then issued to two of his sons. The brothers, not finding sufficient Portuguese ships, began harassing English merchants. King Henry VIII commissioned the Earl of Surrey to end their piracy. Interestingly this ballad replaces Sir Thomas and Edward Howard with Lord Charles Howard, who was born 25 years after the battle. Lord Charles Howard, half-brother of Thomas and Edward, was Lord High Admiral who commanded the English fleet against the Armada.