Medical Definition of LIMBUS. : a border distinguished by color or structure; especially: the marginal region of the cornea of the eye by which it is continuous with the sclera. Definition of LIMBUS. : the marginal region of the cornea of the eye by which it is continuous with the sclera. ADVERTISEMENT. Latin, border. First Known Use: 1877.
The limbus forms the border between the transparent cornea and opaque sclera, contains the pathways of aqueous humour outflow, and is the site of surgical incisions for cataract and glaucoma. 
Eye (1989) 3, 101-108 The Anatomy of the Limbus E. MICHAEL VAN BUSKIRK Portland, Oregon Summary The limbus forms the border between the transparent cornea and opaque sclera, contains the pathways of aqueous humour outflow, and is the site of surgical incisions for cataract and glaucoma. 
The corneal limbus is the border of the cornea and the sclera (the white of the eye). The limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm. The limbus contains radially-oriented fibrovascular ridges known as the palisades of Vogt that may harbour a stem cell population. The palisades of Vogt are more common in the superior and inferior quadrants around the eye.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The limbus sign is a ring of dystrophic calcification evident as a milky precipitate  (i.e. abnormal white color) at the corneal limbus. The corneal limbus is the part of the eye where the cornea (front/center) meets the sclera (white part of the eye). 
The limbal epithelium of the eye--a review of limbal stem cell biology, disease and treatment. Osei-Bempong C, Figueiredo FC, Lako M. Institute of Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK. The limbus is a narrow band of tissue that encircles the cornea, the transparent 'window' into the eye. The outermost layer of the cornea is the epithelium, which is necessary for clear vision. The limbus acts as a 'reservoir' for limbal stem cells which maintain and regenerate the corneal epithelium. 
limbus. pl. limbi [L.] an edge, fringe or border; used in anatomical nomenclature to designate the edge of the cornea, where it joins the sclera (limbus corneae, scleral limbus), and other margins in the body. eyelid limbus. the skin-conjunctival junction at the palpebral rim. Corneal limbus (limbus corneae), in a horizontal section (A) and anterior view (B) of the eye.
limbus. corneal limbus the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera. Corneal limbus (limbus corneae), in a horizontal section (A) and anterior view (B) of the eye. spiral limbus the thickened periosteum of the osseous spiral lamina of the cochle