Since the beginning of the week the pound has made gains against the dollar and euro. The week started on the back foot when the UK released their latest Consumer Price Index MoM numbers (inflation) for September. The figure disappointed clients with sterling as inflation entered into deflation (-0.1%). Sterling has weakened against the Euro as a result, but not the USD as the US are experiencing their own issues with potential rate hikes. GBP/EUR has dropped back from 1.367 back to the high 1.35’s.
Sterling has continued to weaken against the dollar and the euro on continued worries about the health of the UK economy. Against the dollar, sterling fell to a seven-month low, and against the euro it was nearing a 15-month low. The falls came after Bank of England policymaker Martin Weale said that sterling may need to weaken further to bolster the UK economy. Currency speculators are also betting that sterling will fall, data shows. Sterling fell 0.5% to $1.543, its lowest since 13 July, 2012. The euro was up 0.3% against sterling, making a euro worth 86.3 pence.
Since July 2008, the Pound has fallen by around 25% against the Dollar and Euro. This trade weighted index shows a 25% fall in the value of the Pound. Reasons for the decline in the value of Pound Sterling include: 1  Deep Recession forecast in UK Interest rates have fallen and are likely to fall further. 
So, no difference against the dollar for the euro from this time last year, and the euro is stronger against than the pound than it was this time last year. Not a bad performance for a crisis-stricken currency. However, the pound is weaker against the dollar than it was this time last year. The value of the euro is pegged to the German economy, not the economies of Greece or Italy or any of the countries in trouble, that's why it is still overvalued, and means Greece, Italy, Spain et al cant devalue and become competitive. If the ECB starts printing money, the euro will fall against the £
By Stephanie FlandersEconomics editor. The pound was also 0.3% lower against the dollar, hitting $1.5956 on Thursday, its lowest since 23 November. The UK economy is still very soft and that adds up to testing times for sterling, said Daragh Maher, foreign exchange strategist at HSBC. The pound was worth just over 1.19 euros in trading late on Thursday, making a euro worth about 83.5 pence. That means UK tourists exchanging money are like to get fewer euros.
By Stephanie FlandersEconomics editor. The pound was also 0.3% lower against the dollar, hitting $1.5956 on Thursday, its lowest since 23 November. The UK economy is still very soft and that adds up to testing times for sterling, said Daragh Maher, foreign exchange strategist at HSBC. The UK pound has continued to weaken against the euro, falling below the 1.20 level for the first time since early April 2012. Currency traders said that concerns over the UK's AAA credit rating and relationships with the European Union were undermining sterling's strength
The euro was in crisis, which is why until about six months ago the pound had been doing relatively well. With the single currency apparently on its death bed, sterling assets became a safe haven for eurozone investors wanting to protect themselves against a break-up. 
The pound has fallen sharply against the euro this week, dipping below €1.10 today. Parity with the euro now seems to be a real possibility. A currency expert explains why traders are selling sterling... 1. Soaring national debt. Concerns over the sustainability of the level of public debt, which has increased over 20% in a year, and now stands at £804bn, is weighing heavily on sterling value.