Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle. Although Archaea are prokaryotic, they are more closely related to Eukarya and thus cannot be placed within either the Bacteria or Eukarya domains. One property unique to Archaea is the abundant use of ether-linked lipids in their cell membranes.
These microbes are prokaryotes, meaning that they have no cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles in their cells. Archaea were initially classified as bacteria, receiving the name archaebacteria (in the Archaebacteria kingdom), but this classification is outdated. Although Archaea are prokaryotic, they are more closely related to Eukarya and thus cannot be placed within either the Bacteria or Eukarya domains. One property unique to Archaea is the abundant use of ether-linked lipids in their cell membranes.
Best Answer: Bacteria: -no nucleus-no membrane bound organelles-no mitochondria or chloroplasts Eukarya: -true nucleus-membrane bound organelles-have either mitochondrias or chloroplast Archaea: Closer to Eukarya than Prokarya-live in EXTREME conditions. Source(s): · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Archaea and bacteria are both single-celled microorganisms known as prokaryotes but this is one of the few things they have in common. Even though they both look vaguely similar when viewed through a microscope, each represents a completely different group of creatures. Archaea and bacteria differ in the environments in which they can survive. While bacteria live almost everywhere, only archaea are capable of surviving in harsh extremes, although they are also found elsewhere. Some archaea, known as thermophiles, live in very hot environments such as volcano vents.
Archaea and bacteria have different cell membranes and cell structures, and archaea are found in extreme environments where most bacteria could not survive. Bacteria cell walls contain a substance known as peptidoglycan, while the cell walls of archaea do not. Archaea and bacteria also differ because the cell membranes of archaea have a unique structure and do not contain the same lipids, or fats, that are found in the cell membranes of other organisms. Archaea and bacteria differ in the environments in which they can survive. While bacteria live almost everywhere, only archaea are capable of surviving in harsh extremes, although they are also found elsewhere. Some archaea, known as thermophiles, live in very hot environments such as volcano vents.
2. Organisms can be classified into one of three domains based on differences in the sequences of nucleotides in the cell's ribosomal RNAs (rRNA), the cell's membrane lipid structure, and its sensitivity to antibiotics. 3. The three domains are the Archaea, the Bacteria, and the Eukarya. 4. Prokaryotic organisms belong either to the domain Archaea or the domain Bacteria; organisms with eukaryotic cells belong to the domain Eukarya.
Introduction (from Wikipedia). The Archaea constitute a domain or kingdom of single-celled microorganisms. These microbes are prokaryotes, meaning that they have no cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles in their cells. Bacteria constitute a large domain of prokaryotic microorganisms. In the past, archaea were classified as bacteria and were called archaebacteria. But it was discovered that archaea have a distinct evolutionary history and biochemistry compared with bacteria. The similarities are that archaea and eubacteria are single-celled organisms that do not have a nucleus or organelles.
Here is more information on the differences between these two microorganisms. Both bacteria and archaea have different Ribosomal RNAs (rRNA). Archea have three RNA polymerases like eukaryotes, but bacteria have only one. Archaea have cell walls that lack peptidoglycan and have membranes that enclose lipids with hydrocarbons rather than fatty acids (not a bilayer). 