Place eggs in cold water. Bring to boil, remove from heat. Cover pan and let stand for 15 minutes. Pour hot water off eggs. Bounce eggs gently in pan to crack shells. Run cold water over eggs in pan for few minutes. Pour most of water out, then cover with ice cubes and add water. Let stand for 15 minutes.
Instructions. After cooking, place hard-boiled eggs immediately under cold running water or in a bowl of ice water. Hard-boiled eggs are easier to peel right after they cool down. Wait until the eggs feel cool before peeling. Tap the egg gently on the counter top all over until the entire shell is cracked. Roll the egg between your hands or along the top of the counter top until the shell starts to loosen from the egg. Place the egg under cold running water to help loosen bits of shell that cling to the egg. Peel, starting from one end and work slowly until the shell is completely removed.
If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). Heat the pot on high heat and bring the water to a full rolling boil. Adding a teaspoon of vinegar to the water may help keep egg whites from running out if an egg does crack while cooking. Also some people find adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water helps prevent cracking as well as making the eggs easier to peel.
Boil the eggs. The method you use to boil your eggs can have a significant impact on how easily you'll be able to peel them. Place your eggs in a saucepan and cover with cold water. There should be about two inches of water over the top of the eggs. Add a teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda to the water, then bring the pan to a gentle simmer and cook for approximately 12 minutes. Crack the shell at each end. Once the eggs have cooled, remove them from the water and pat dry with some paper towel. Take an egg and firmly tap each end on a hard surface, such as a counter top, to crack the shell. Do one end, and then the other.
Instructions. 1  Put the eggs in a pan of cold water: Place 6 cold eggs in a saucepan and fill with cold water, covering the eggs by an inch. 2  Bring the water to a rolling boil: Set the pan over high heat and bring the water to a boil, uncovered. 3  The water should come to a full, rolling boil. 1 Put the eggs in a pan of cold water: Place 6 cold eggs in a saucepan and fill with cold water, covering the eggs by an inch. 2  Bring the water to a rolling boil: Set the pan over high heat and bring the water to a boil, uncovered. 3  The water should come to a full, rolling boil. 4  Turn off the heat and cover the pan
First, place the cold eggs in a single layer in a pan with enough cold water to cover them by about 1 inch. Then, place the pan on the stove over high heat. Shutterstock. As soon as the water comes to a boil turn the heat off, cover the pan, and remove it from the heat. Allow the eggs to sit in the water until they are cooked; about 9 minutes for a medium egg, 12 minutes for a large egg, and 15 minutes for an extra-large egg. 
Peel the egg. Starting at the wide end with the air pocket, begin peeling the egg, using the side of your thumb. You should remove both the shell and the white, filmy membrane, to reveal the smooth, shiny egg white underneath. If the boiled egg has adequately cooked and cooled, the shell should come away easily. Crack the shell at each end. Once the eggs have cooled, remove them from the water and pat dry with some paper towel. Take an egg and firmly tap each end on a hard surface, such as a counter top, to crack the shell. Do one end, and then the other.
Or, if you are cooking a large batch of eggs, remove them with a slotted spoon to a large bowl of ice water. I find it easiest to peel the eggs under a bit of running water. The best way to store hard boiled eggs is in a covered container in the refrigerator. Eggs can release odors in the fridge which is why it helps to keep them covered. They should be eaten within 5 days. Heat the pot on high heat and bring the water to a full rolling boil. Adding a teaspoon of vinegar to the water may help keep egg whites from running out if an egg does crack while cooking. Also some people find adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water helps prevent cracking as well as making the eggs easier to peel.