9.5%. According to our research of Colorado and other state lists there were 85 registered sex offenders living in Westminster, Colorado as of October 05, 2015. The ratio of number of residents in Westminster to the number of sex offenders is 1,284 to 1. The number of registered sex offenders compared to the number of residents in this city is smaller than the state average. Median real estate property taxes paid for housing units with mortgages in 2013: $1,515 (0.7%).
1 The ADAMS County CO ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for ADAMS County CO. 1 Area Code Database. 2  Get all Area Codes and NXX data for North America. 3  CO ZIP Code Map. 4  The CO ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for CO using clean, practical map colors and styles. 5  ADAMS County, CO ZIP Code Map. 6 
1 Vectra Bank Colorado, National Association: Westminster Branch at 3300 West 72nd Avenue, branch established on 1970/02/09; Park Centre Branch at 1955 West 120th Avenue, branch established on 2007/07/30. The ratio of number of residents in Westminster to the number of sex offenders is 1,284 to 1. The number of registered sex offenders compared to the number of residents in this city is smaller than the state average. Median real estate property taxes paid for housing units with mortgages in 2013: $1,515 (0.7%).
Westminster is a Home Rule Municipality in Adams and Jefferson counties in the U.S. state of Colorado. Westminster is a northwest suburb of Denver. The Westminster Municipal Center is located 9 miles (14 km) north-northwest of the Colorado State Capitol. Westminster University, also known as Westminster Castle is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and overlooks the city of Denver. Gold discovered in the South Platte River Valley in 1858 brought national attention to the area that would become Westminster, Colorado.
Westminster is the seventh most populous city in the state of Colorado and the 237th most populous city in the United States. Westminster is a part of the Denver-Aurora-Broomfield, CO Metropolitan Statistical Area and the Denver-Aurora-Boulder Combined Statistical Area. In July 2006, it was ranked as the 24th best place to live in the USA by Money magazine. Westminster University, also known as Westminster Castle is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and overlooks the city of Denver. Gold discovered in the South Platte River Valley in 1858 brought national attention to the area that would become Westminster, Colorado.
1 CO ZIP Code Map. 2  The CO ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for CO using clean, practical map colors and styles. 3  ADAMS County, CO ZIP Code Map. 4  The ADAMS County CO ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for ADAMS County CO. 1 Area Code Database. 2  Get all Area Codes and NXX data for North America. 3  CO ZIP Code Map. 4  The CO ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for CO using clean, practical map colors and styles. 5  ADAMS County, CO ZIP Code Map. 6
1 The CO ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for CO using clean, practical map colors and styles. 2  ADAMS County, CO ZIP Code Map. 3  The ADAMS County CO ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for ADAMS County CO. 1 Area Code Database. 2  Get all Area Codes and NXX data for North America. 3  CO ZIP Code Map. 4  The CO ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for CO using clean, practical map colors and styles. 5  ADAMS County, CO ZIP Code Map. 6
OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK. Welcome to the City of Westminster City Clerk's Office. It is our mission to provide courteous and professional services in a fiscally responsible manner. 
The Jefferson County Assessor's Office provides quality customer service by being courteous, respectful and informative while identifying, describing and valuing all property within Jefferson County in a fair, ethical, accurate and professional manner. 