After the Timberland Company’s agreed $2 billion sale to the VF Corporation, other buyers may be hungry for more outdoor and footwear company acquisitions. In a video, DealBook examines the deal. VF Corporation said it would acquire Timberland in a $2 billion deal that would add to the apparel company’s extensive collection of brands.
Click Here Now. VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) is a rare example of a company that can excel on multiple fronts. The large retailer has been a leader in dividend growth for a while, providing shareholders with substantial dividend increases every year for the last decade. Finally, VF Corp has big plans to expand across the world. One of the primary focuses is on the Asia Pacific region. At an investors conference in Shanghai last year, management unveiled plans to expand the company's business in Asia Pacific by $1.1 billion to reach $2 billion in revenue by 2017.
Learn how VF is working independently and in collaboration with others to improve working conditions in Bangladesh. VF is committed to ensuring the fair treatment and safety of the people making our products around the world. 
Vf or VF may stand for: In companies, organizations, groups 1  : VF Corporation, a clothing company. 2  Valuair, an airline based in Singapore, IATA code VF. 3  Vodafone, a UK-based mobile/cell phone network.
Description. V.F. Corporation (VF) is engaged in the design, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of branded lifestyle apparel, footwear and accessories. The Company operates through five coalitions: Outdoor & Action Sports, Jeanswear, Imagewear, Sportswear and Contemporary Brands
Profile. VF Corporation is an international apparel company. The Company owns a broad portfolio of brands in the jeanswear, outerwear, packs, footwear, sportswear and occupational apparel categories. 
V.F. Corporation (VF), incorporated in December 4, 1899, is engaged in the design, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of branded lifestyle apparel, footwear and accessories. The Company has a portfolio of more than 30 brands
VF Corporation is a global apparel and footwear company founded in 1899 and headquartered in Greensboro, North Carolina. VF Corporation, which opened their first VF Outlet factory store in 1970, was one of the earliest outlet operations, and opened their first outlet center in the country, in Reading, Pennsylvania.
On July 26, 2007, VF Corporation announced the purchase of 7 for all Mankind and lucy Activewear for a combined $885 million. Eric C. Wiseman became President, CEO, and Chairman in 2008. In 2011, VF Corporation announced its intention to purchase Timberland for $2.2 billion. The deal closed in September 2011. On December 21, 2012, VF Imagewear was awarded a multi-million dollar contract to provide uniforms and insignia for Customs and Border Protection officers. VF Corporation, which opened their first VF Outlet factory store in 1970, was one of the earliest outlet operations, and opened their first outlet center in the country, in Reading, Pennsylvania.