NFPA 704 - Text description of the diamond-shaped placard, which contains codes indicating the level of the chemical's health, flammability, and instability hazards, along with special hazards such as water-and air-reactivity. See a guide to the NFPA diamond. 4-digit number identifying an individual chemical or group of chemicals with similar characteristics. Required on shipping papers; often shown on placards or labels. This numbering system was developed by the U.S. Department of Transportation, and then became the UN standard system for classifying hazardous materials.
Zirconium is a by-product of the mining and processing of the titanium minerals ilmenite and rutile, as well as tin mining. From 2003 to 2007, zircon prices steadily increased from $360 to $840 per tonne. Five isotopes of zirconium also exist as metastable isomers: 83m Zr, 85m Zr, 89m Zr, 90m1 Zr, 90m2 Zr and 91m Zr. Of these, 90m2 Zr has the shortest half-life at 131 nanoseconds.
Naturally occurring zirconium is composed of five isotopes. 90 Zr, 91 Zr, 92 Zr and 94 Zr are stable. 94 Zr can undergo double beta decay (not observed experimentally) with a half-life of more than 1.10×10 17 years. 96 Zr has a half-life of 2.4×10 19 years, making it the longest-lived radioisotope of zirconium. Five isotopes of zirconium also exist as metastable isomers: 83m Zr, 85m Zr, 89m Zr, 90m1 Zr, 90m2 Zr and 91m Zr. Of these, 90m2 Zr has the shortest half-life at 131 nanoseconds.
ZIRCONIUM SULFATE page 2 of 6 This Fact Sheet is a summary source of information of all potential and most severe health hazards that may result from exposure. Duration of exposure, concentration of the substance and other factors will affect your susceptibility to any of the potential effects described below. REASON FOR CITATION * Zirconium Sulfate is on the Hazardous Substance List because it is regulated by OSHA and cited by ACGIH, DOT, NIOSH and EPA. ventilation at the site of chemical release. If local exhaust * This chemical is on the Special Health Hazard Substance List because it is CORROSIVE.
* Exposure to 50 mg / m3 (as Zirconium) is immediately dangerous to life and health. If the possibility of exposure above 50 mg / m3 (as Zirconium) exists, use a MSHA/NIOSH approved self-contained breathing apparatus with a full facepiece operated in a pressure-demand or other positive-pressure mode. REASON FOR CITATION * Zirconium Sulfate is on the Hazardous Substance List because it is regulated by OSHA and cited by ACGIH, DOT, NIOSH and EPA. ventilation at the site of chemical release. If local exhaust * This chemical is on the Special Health Hazard Substance List because it is CORROSIVE.
Air & Water Reactions-Special alerts if the chemical reacts with air, water, or moisture. Fire Hazard-Description of the chemical's fire hazards (such as flammability, explosion risk, or byproducts that may evolve if the chemical is burned). Health Hazard-Description of the chemical's health hazards (such as toxicity, flammability, or corrosivity). Reactivity Profile-Description of the chemical's potential reactivity with other chemicals, air, and water. Also includes any other intrinsic reactive hazards (such as polymerizable or peroxidizable). 4-digit number identifying an individual chemical or group of chemicals with similar characteristics. Required on shipping papers; often shown on placards or labels. This numbering system was developed by the U.S. Department of Transportation, and then became the UN standard system for classifying hazardous materials.
Zirconium is a chemical element with symbol Zr and atomic number 40. The name of zirconium is taken from the name of the mineral zircon, the most important source of zirconium. The word zircon comes from the Persian word zargun زرگون, meaning gold-colored. Five isotopes of zirconium also exist as metastable isomers: 83m Zr, 85m Zr, 89m Zr, 90m1 Zr, 90m2 Zr and 91m Zr. Of these, 90m2 Zr has the shortest half-life at 131 nanoseconds.
Zirconium. Zirconium is a very strong, malleable, ductile, lustrous silver-gray metal. Its chemical and physical properties are similar to those of titanium. Zirconium is extremely resistant to heat and corrosion. Zirconium is lighter than steel and its hardness is similar to copper. When it is finely divided, the metal can spontaneously ignite in air, especially at high temperatures. Zirconium powder is black and is regarded as very dangerous fire hazard. Zirconium does not dissolve in acids and alkalis
* Repeated exposure to Zirconium Sulfate can cause an allergic skin reaction with small nodules on the skin (granulomas). * Long-term exposure may affect the lungs. * Zirconium Sulfate is a CORROSIVE CHEMICAL. IDENTIFICATION Zirconium Sulfate is an odorless, white, sand-like powder. REASON FOR CITATION * Zirconium Sulfate is on the Hazardous Substance List because it is regulated by OSHA and cited by ACGIH, DOT, NIOSH and EPA. ventilation at the site of chemical release. If local exhaust * This chemical is on the Special Health Hazard Substance List because it is CORROSIVE.
Zirconium dioxide (ZrO 2), sometimes known as zirconia (not to be confused with zircon), is a white crystalline oxide of zirconium. Its most naturally occurring form, with a monoclinic crystalline structure, is the mineral baddeleyite. 