The sugar and phosphate group make up the backbone of the DNA double helix, while the bases are located in the middle. A chemical bond between the phosphate group of one nucleotide and the sugar of a neighboring nucleotide holds the backbone together. 
Posted on. (Answer #1). DNA, or Deoxyribonucleic Acid, is a double helix, with a backbone that is made up of alternating molecules of deoxyribose, a five-carbon sugar with the chemical formula C5H10O4 and molecules of phosphate, an inorganic salt with the formula PO4. The DNA molecule is made up of two such strands, which formed the backbone, rather like the side rails of a ladder. The rungs of the ladder are formed by bonded pairs of nitrogenous bases known as adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine. Sources:
DNA is a polymer. The monomer units of DNA are nucleotides, and the polymer is known as a polynucleotide.. Each nucleotide consists of a 5-carbon sugar (deoxyribose), a nitrogen containing base attached to the sugar, and a phosphate group. The deoxyribose sugar of the DNA backbone has 5 carbons and 3 oxygens. The carbon atoms are numbered 1', 2', 3', 4', and 5' to distinguish from the numbering of the atoms of the purine and pyrmidine rings. The hydroxyl groups on the 5'- and 3'- carbons link to the phosphate groups to form the DNA backbone.
A DNA molecule is made up of numerous genes and are found on chromosomes. DNA contains monomers called nucleotides, which is made up of a phosphate group, a deoxyribose sugar, … and a nitrogenous base. These nucleotides connect together to form the double-stranded structure, called the double helix. The double helix structure was founded by Watson & Cricke. In simple terms; the backbone of DNA is made up of a phosphate group and a pentose sugar. The pentose sugar is also known as Deoxyribose and makes up the D in DNA (Deoxyribose … Nucleic Acid). 9 people found this useful.
Exploring a DNA chain The sugars in the backbone The backbone of DNA is based on a repeated pattern of a sugar group and a phosphate group. The full name of DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, gives you the name of the sugar present-deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is a modified form of another sugar called ribose.
The backbone of DNA is made up of deoxyribose, a sugar, and are linked together by phosphodiester bonds. RNA is similar but the sugar is called ribose. Components that form the backbone of DNA and RNA are the same: repeating units of a sugar and a phosphate. In case of DNA, sugar is deoxyribose and in case of RNA the sugar is … ribose. Both of these molecules are very important in the filed of genetics.
These bases are the rungs of the DNA ladder. (It takes two bases to form a rung -- one for each side of the ladder.). A sugar molecule, a base, and a phosphate molecule group together to make up a nucleotide. Nucleotides are abundant in the cell's nucleus. Nucleotides are the units which, when linked sugar to phosphate, make up one side of a DNA ladder. 
(A grouping like this of a phosphate, a sugar, and a base makes up a subunit of DNA called a nucleotide.) These bases make up the 'rungs' of the ladder, and are attached to the backbone where the deoxyribose (sugar) molecules are located. 
Answers. Best Answer: Backbone: phosphate and deoxyribose sugars 1. replication fork is where the DNA opens the two strands up so DNA polymerase can get in and make copies. 3. The sides of the DNA molecule is the same as the backbone. 4. proteins have many functions, like they can make up the hair skin nails. Or they can be enzymes to facilitate reactions.