Collagenase SANTYL® Ointment may be applied directly to the wound or to a sterile gauze pad which is then applied to the wound and properly secured. Use of Collagenase SANTYL® Ointment should be discontinued when debridement of necrotic tissue is complete and granulation tissue is well established.
Collagen wound dressings create a scaffold on which cells can grow. Among the many types of wound dressings on the market is the collagen dressing. This product has had excellent results for many patients, particularly those with partial-thickness/full-thickness wounds, skin grafts, and certain severe burns.
Collagen dressings are dressings that are derived from animal sources, such as bovine (cattle), equine (horse) or porcine (pig) sources. The collagen helps to promote the growth of new collagen at the wound site, prompting an often speedier recovery period.
Collagenase Santyl (collagenase) ® Ointment should be applied once daily (or more frequently if the dressing becomes soiled as from incontinence). When clinically indicated, crosshatching thick eschar with a #10 blade allows Collagenase Santyl (collagenase) ® Ointment more surface contact with necrotic debris.
Collagen is a key component of the extracellular matrix (ECM) and plays a critical role in all phases of wound healing. There are a number of advanced wound care dressings available that incorporate collagen to enhance wound bed preparation.
Description. BIOSTEP is a unique collagen matrix dressing that allows you to overcome barriers to wound closure while maintaining an optimal moist wound environment. It targets and deactivates excess MMPs and has a 6-day wear time for prolonged control of the
A collagen dressing is a type of wound dressing that is made with a form of collagen to aid in the body's healing processes. Collagen is a category of structural proteins that are naturally present in almost every part of the human body and are especially common in connective tissue.
Examples of wounds that generally benefit from collagen dressings include: 1  Wound of partial and full thickness. 2  Skin grafts. 3  Minimal to heavy exudate wounds. 4  Second-degree burns. 5  Necrotic or granulating wounds.
3 - Collagenase Santyl (collagenase) ® Ointment may be applied directly to the wound or to a sterile gauze pad which is then applied to the wound and properly secured.