We sell saguaro cacti, ranging from seedlings and juveniles up to mature plants requiring a large trailer with specialized hydraulic equipment to transplant. Most plants smaller than 3 feet tall can be shipped, and anything larger needs to be delivered or picked up. Sizes and prices of the saguaro cactus we have for sale now are as follows: 1  6-inch tall plant - $20.00. 2  12-inch tall plant - $40.00. 3  18-inch tall plant - $75.00.
The saguaro (/səˈwɑroʊ/ , [saˈɣwaɾo]) (Carnegiea gigantea) is an arborescent (tree-like) cactus species in the monotypic genus Carnegiea, which can grow to be over 20 m (70 ft) tall. Saguaros have a relatively long lifespan. They may grow their first side arm any time from 75–100 years of age, but some never grow one at all. A saguaro without arms is called a spear. The arms are grown to increase the plant's reproductive capacity (more apices lead to more flowers and fruit).
The plant is the saguaro cactus from the Sonoran Desert of Arizona. The saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) is a superstar amongst the cactus family both for its storied existence and size. It can reach as much as 45 feet in height though 20 to 30 feet specimens with foot thick trunks are more common. 
How to Grow Saguaro Cactus. The saguaro cactus is native to the state of Sonora in Mexico and small portions of California and Arizona in the United States. The saguaro is a large, tree-sized cactus that can survive up to 200 years. In its natural environment, the saguaro can reach maximum heights of 60 feet (18.3 m). The plant survives by drinking in rainwater, visibly expanding itself, and storing the water for consumption during dry periods.
Definition of SAGUARO. : a tall columnar usually sparsely-branched cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) of dry areas of the southwestern United States and Mexico that bears white flowers and a scaly reddish edible fruit and that may attain a height of up to 50 feet (16 meters) —called also giant cactus. 
Extra Fun-facts. The saguaro is the largest cactus in the United States. Most of the saguaros roots are only 4-6 inches deep and radiate out as far from the plant as it is tall. There is one deep root, or tap root that extends down into the ground more than 2 feet. Saguaro are very slow growing cactus. A 10 year old plant might only be 1.5 inches tall. Saguaro can grow to be between 40-60 feet tall (12-18m). When rain is plentiful and the saguaro is fully hydrated it can weigh between 3200-4800 pounds.
The Saguaro Cactus, is composed of a tall, thick, fluted, columnar stem, 18 to 24 inches in diameter, often with several large branches (arms) curving upward in the most distinctive conformation of all Southwestern cacti. The slow growth and great capacity of the Saguaro to store water allow it to flower every year, regardless of rainfall. The night-blooming flowers, about 3 inches wide, have many creamy-white petals around a tube about 4 inches long.
Identifying Features. The saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) is one of the defining plants of the Sonoran Desert. These plants are large, tree-like columnar cacti that develop branches (or arms) as they age, although some never grow arms. Saguaro are very slow growing cactus. A 10 year old plant might only be 1.5 inches tall. Saguaro can grow to be between 40-60 feet tall (12-18m). When rain is plentiful and the saguaro is fully hydrated it can weigh between 3200-4800 pounds.