11.1 Blood-brain Barrier Maintains the Constancy of the Brain's Internal Environment. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) protects the neural tissue from variations in blood composition and toxins. Elsewhere in the body the extracellular concentrations of hormones, amino acids and potassium undergo frequent fluctuations, especially after meals, exercise or stressful times. Glucose from blood enters the brain by a transport protein. Glucose is the primary energy substrate of the brain. Glucose transport protein (GLUT-1) is highly enriched in brain capillary endothelial cells. These transporters carry glucose molecules through the blood brain barrier.
Discovery of blood-brain barrier. The discovery of the BBB dates back more than 100 years when, in the 1880s, Paul Ehrlich observed that intravenous administration of certain dyes (e.g. trypan blue) stained all organs except the brain and the spinal cord. Glucose from blood enters the brain by a transport protein. Glucose is the primary energy substrate of the brain. Glucose transport protein (GLUT-1) is highly enriched in brain capillary endothelial cells. These transporters carry glucose molecules through the blood 
In a proof-of-concept study in monkeys, biologists used the system to reduce levels of the protein amyloid-β, which accumulates in the brain plaques associated with Alzheimer's disease. The blood–brain barrier is a layer of cells lining the inner surface of the capillaries that feed the central nervous system. It is nature's way of protecting the delicate brain from infectious agents and toxic compounds, while letting nutrients and oxygen in and waste products out. The anti-Alzheimer's antibody has two binding sites — one for crossing the blood-brain barrier, the other for disabling an enzyme that produces the plaques associated with the disease.
The blood–brain barrier is composed of high-density cells restricting passage of substances from the bloodstream much more than do the endothelial cells in capillaries elsewhere in the body. It is believed that latent HIV can cross the blood–brain barrier inside circulating monocytes in the bloodstream ( Trojan horse theory) within the first 14 days of infection.
The blood–brain barrier acts very effectively to protect the brain from many common bacterial infections. Thus, infections of the brain are very rare. Infections of the brain that do occur are often very serious and difficult to treat. It is believed that latent HIV can cross the blood–brain barrier inside circulating monocytes in the bloodstream ( Trojan horse theory) within the first 14 days of infection.
Abstract. Here we hypothesized that the water-soluble lysosomal enzymes may cross the blood–brain-barrier and reach the brain using the mechanism of unspecific fluid-phase endocytosis. In fact, there has been increasing evidence that when high serum levels of lysosomal enzymes are achieved, either by GT or ERT, a small fraction of the enzyme is able to cross the BBB by mechanisms not clearly understood [6] , [7] and [8] . Table 1.
All areas of the brain do not have a blood-brain barrier. The structures located at strategic positions in the midline of the ventricular system and lack the BBB are collectively referred to as circumventricular organs (CVOs). Glucose from blood enters the brain by a transport protein. Glucose is the primary energy substrate of the brain. Glucose transport protein (GLUT-1) is highly enriched in brain capillary endothelial cells. These transporters carry glucose molecules through the blood 
They next took a strain of common baking yeast — Saccharomyces cerevisiae — that does not cross the blood-brain barrier and does not normally express Mpr1, and modified it to express Mpr1 on its cell surface. This strain then gained the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier model. 
A cortical microvessel stained for blood–brain barrier protein ZO-1. The blood–brain barrier (BBB) is a highly selective permeability barrier that separates the circulating blood from the brain extracellular fluid (BECF) in the central nervous system (CNS). It is believed that latent HIV can cross the blood–brain barrier inside circulating monocytes in the bloodstream ( Trojan horse theory) within the first 14 days of infection.
The barrier function of the blood–brain barrier is due to: (1) tight junctions that restrict movement of substances between the endothelial cells, (2) specific transport proteins that determine which substances can cross the barrier transcellularly and (3) enzymes that may degrade or alter substances prior to passage. The blood–brain barrier consists of endothelial cells lining brain capillaries. It serves to restrict and control the movement of substances between the general circulation and brain extracellular fluid.