The symptoms of shigellosis include diarrhea (often bloody), fever, and stomach cramps starting 1 or 2 days after you are exposed to the bacteria. Shigellosis usually lasts 5 to 7 days. In some people, especially young children and older adults, the diarrhea can be so severe that a hospital stay is needed.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Shigellosis is an infectious disease caused by a group of bacteria called Shigella (shih-GEHL-uh). Most who are infected with Shigella develop diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps starting a day or two after they are exposed to the bacteria. Shigellosis usually resolves in 5 to 7 days. Some people who are infected may have no symptoms at all, but may still pass the Shigella bacteria to others.
Most people who are infected with Shigella develop diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps after being exposed to the bacteria. [11, 16, 26] Symptoms may start 12 to 96 hours after exposure, usually within 1 to 3 days. [1, 16] Diarrhea may range from mild to severe, and it usually contains mucus.
1 Shigellosis is an infectious disease caused by a group of bacteria called Shigella. 2  Symptoms of Shigella infection include diarrhea (often bloody), fever, and stomach cramps starting a day or two after exposure to the bacteria. 3  Shigellosis usually resolves in 5 to 7 days.
1 Symptoms of Shigella infection include diarrhea (often bloody), fever, and stomach cramps starting a day or two after exposure to the bacteria.
Signs and symptoms of shigella infection usually begin a day or two after contact with shigella, but may take up to a week to develop. Signs and symptoms may include: 1  Diarrhea (often containing blood or mucus). 2  Abdominal pain or cramps.
Symptoms usually begin within three days of coming in contact with Shigella. In some cases, however, symptoms of infection may appear as much as a week after contact. Diarrhea and other signs of shigellosis usually last between two and seven days. Mild infection lasting a couple of days may not require treatment.