Singulair is indicated for the treatment of asthma and allergies. Common side effects reported with Singulair include headache, upset stomach, nausea and diarrhea, tiredness, sore throat and cough. A search of prescribing information for Singulair did not specifically list weight gain as a side effect.
Singulair side-effects do not include direct weight loss or weight gain. Side effects that may occur include headache, weakness, tiredness, trouble sleeping, cough, dizziness, indigestion, nausea or stomach upset and a stuffy nose.
Summary: Weight gain is found among people who take Singulair, especially for people who are female, 60+ old, have been taking the drug for 1 - 6 months, also take medication Albuterol, and have Asthma. We study 41,285 people who have side effects while taking Singulair from FDA and social media.
Weight gain has been reported by people with depression, high blood pressure, bipolar disorder, pain, high blood cholesterol. (latest reports from 76,867 Weight gain patients). On Sep, 14, 2015: 41,274 people reported to have side effects when taking Singulair. Among them, 860 people (2.08%) have Weight Gain.
The most common side effects from taking Singulair are headache, soar throat, ear infection, respiratory infection, abnormal dreams, abdominal pain, fever, flu etc. But, we have noticed that many patients taking this medication have problems with weight gain, like in your case.
Weight gain. Weight gain has been reported by people with depression, high blood pressure, bipolar disorder, pain, high blood cholesterol. (latest reports from 76,867 Weight gain patients). On Sep, 23, 2015: 3,090 people reported to have side effects when taking Montelukast sodium.
There are a number of possible side effects with Singulair ® (montelukast sodium). Weight gain, however, does not appear to be one of them. This conclusion is based on the results of clinical trials, where Singulair was extensively studied and side effects were documented.
However, weight gain is not listed as a side effect of taking Singulair. Maybe your eating habits have changed since you started taking this medicine. You should go to your doctor so that he can examine you and determine what is the cause for your weight gain.