The term hysteria has been in use for over 2,000 years and its definition has become broader and more diffuse over time. hysteria. a state of excitement or tension in which there is a temporary loss of control over the emotions. The term is probably an inappropriate one for use in animals.
hysteria. a condition of extreme excitement characterized by emotional disturbance, sensory and motor derangement and sometimes the simulation of organic disorders. — hysterie, n. — hysteric, hysterical, adj. hys•te•ri•a. 1. a psychoneurotic disorder characterized by violent emotional outbreaks, disturbances of sensory and motor functions, and various abnormal effects due to autosuggestion. 2. an uncontrollable emotional outburst, as from fear or grief, often characterized by irrationality, laughter, weeping, etc.
By the mid to late 19th century, hysteria (or sometimes female hysteria) came to refer to what is today generally considered to be sexual dysfunction. Typical treatment was massage of the patient's genitalia by the physician and, later, by vibrators or water sprays to cause orgasm. In the early 1890s Freud published a series of articles on hysteria which popularized Charcot's earlier work and began the development of his own views of hysteria. By the 1920s Freud's theory was influential in the UK and the US.
Classified under: Nouns denoting stable states of affairs. Synonyms: delirium; frenzy; hysteria; craze; fury. Hypernyms (hysteria is a kind of...): mania; manic disorder (a mood disorder; an affective disorder in which the victim tends to respond excessively and sometimes violently). 
Full Definition of HYSTERIA. 1. : a psychoneurosis marked by emotional excitability and disturbances of the psychic, sensory, vasomotor, and visceral functions. 2. — hys·ter·ic \-ˈter-ik\ noun. — hys·ter·i·cal \-ˈter-i-kəl\ also hysteric adjective. — hys·ter·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. noun hys·te·ria \his-ˈter-ē-ə, -ˈtir-\. Tweet. : a state in which your emotions (such as fear) are so strong that you behave in an uncontrolled way. : a situation in which many people behave or react in an extreme or uncontrolled way because of fear, anger, etc.
hysteria. noun hys·te·ria \his-ˈter-ē-ə, -ˈtir-\. Tweet. : a state in which your emotions (such as fear) are so strong that you behave in an uncontrolled way. : a situation in which many people behave or react in an extreme or uncontrolled way because of fear, anger, etc.
Examples of HYSTERIA. 1  A few of the children began to scream, and soon they were all caught up in the hysteria. 2  Wartime hysteria led to many unfair accusations of treachery. 3  The spreading of the disease caused mass hysteria in the village. noun hys·te·ria \his-ˈter-ē-ə, -ˈtir-\. Tweet. : a state in which your emotions (such as fear) are so strong that you behave in an uncontrolled way. : a situation in which many people behave or react in an extreme or uncontrolled way because of fear, anger, etc.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Not to be confused with Hysteria. Female hysteria was a once-common medical diagnosis (distinct from male hysteria), made exclusively in women, which is today no longer recognized by medical authorities as a medical disorder. Today, female hysteria is no longer a recognized illness, but different manifestations of hysteria are recognized in other conditions such as schizophrenia, borderline personality disorder, conversion disorder, and anxiety attacks.
The term also occurs in the phrase  mass hysteria  to describe mass public near-panic reactions. Hysteria was often associated with events like the Salem witch trials, or slave revolt conspiracies, where it is better understood through the related sociological term of moral panic. In the early 1890s Freud published a series of articles on hysteria which popularized Charcot's earlier work and began the development of his own views of hysteria. By the 1920s Freud's theory was influential in the UK and the US.
Hysteria, in its colloquial use, describes unmanageable emotional excesses. Generally, modern medical professionals have given up the use of hysteria as a diagnostic category, replacing it with more precisely defined categories such as somatization disorder. In the early 1890s Freud published a series of articles on hysteria which popularized Charcot's earlier work and began the development of his own views of hysteria. By the 1920s Freud's theory was influential in the UK and the US.