Click on a place to view Syverson immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Syverson families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
Click on a place to view Severson immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Severson families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Census records can offer a lot of little known facts about your Severson ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors' social status and economic status.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Severson is not a name with an origin in England or Ireland, that is not to say that someone of that name was not born in England or Ireland, it does mean that someone in their ancestry most likely came from Scandinavia or, just possibly, Germany. My Grandmother's maiden name is that. I think this name is name is a Americanization of Sivertsen or Sivertson which is Scandinavian, Icelandic. I already know it's english or irish.
Top Places of Origin for Severson You can find out where the majority of Severson families were living before they immigrated to the U.S. You can learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Ports of Departure for Severson You can pinpoint where the majority of Severson families booked passage to the US. Surname. The Family Facts archive, with its rich historical information, can tell you everything from the lifespan of your ancestors to the very meaning of your last name. Every time you find a fact, we'll tell you what it means. Severson Origin and Immigration
Origins of the Severson Surname. While some countries have limited historical records for last name assignments, you are most likely to only find general guidance on the origin and meaning of the Severson surname. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country. Every family has a different history, and every document you discover about your Severson ancestors will help paint a picture that can be shared with your relatives. Our team of seasoned experts are here to help you learn about different aspects of genealogy.
Surnames: Severson. Hello, I was just responding to the request of those with Severson surname. I know my family is of Norway decent, but I don't really know much. I am very interested though in searching as far back as I can. Thank you. I hope we can be of some help to eachother
Severson at RootsWeb databases. Severson in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Severson genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Severson surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Welcome to some of the best Severson genealogy resources found on the web. We hope you will participate on the Severson forums, it is a great place to find or post information on Severson genealogy and is completely free to participate.
Severson Last name origin & meaning: Probably an Americanized form of Scandinavian Sivertsen or Sivertson or of German Sievertsen, patronymic of Sievert. My Grandmother's maiden name is that. I think this name is name is a Americanization of Sivertsen or Sivertson which is Scandinavian, Icelandic. I already know it's english or irish.