Best Answer: The one under the bonnet could be the vehicle identification number. It could be in your car manual. You could ask a garage with the same make of car what colour it is. Also Halfords has a colour code guide for some makes of car http://www.halfords.com/webapp/wcs/store...
In order to be able to order a car paint you must know the colour code of your car. The colour code can be seen in several places of your car-depending on the brand. From the drawing and list below you can easily find the place of the code.
The quickest way to get the right car paint code is to use the unique VIN number for your car. This VIN is the Vehicle Identification Number. Once you have found out the VIN of your car, you can order the correct auto paint without having to look far for matching color tones or paint types.
Step 3 - Call the Local Dealership. When you call the dealership, have your car registration details on hand. Ask to be transferred to the service desk, and then explain to the person at the desk that you need to find the correct car paint codes for your car, but don't have the VIN number. Offer them the car registration details instead.
If you are looking for the right car paint for your vehicle, then one way to find the match is to look at the VIN number and find out the correct car paint codes from this detail.
In order to match the correct colour for your car look for the paint code identification plate,in most cases the paint code can be found under the bonnet in the boot or inside the door frame.
The vehicle identification number (VIN) uniquely identifies your vehicle. It is very long and consists of numbers and letters. For example, WAULC78E91A128656 is an example of a VIN from an Audi. This number is on your registration, your vehicle title and also on the vehicle itself. The VIN will be visible through the windshield on the drivers side of your vehicle. It is often stamped in other places such as the drivers door jamb.
If you are not able to find the VIN of your car (and it may be placed in a number of different locations, depending upon the vehicle), then you should try to find the VIN using your registration number.