1 The term witchetty grub is used for large white larvae of moths that chew through wood and eat roots or sap of certain trees and plants. 1 Witchetty grubs are part of the traditional diet of indigenous Australians. 2  Witchetty grubs are eaten either raw or cooked and are very high in protein and have a nutty flavour. 3  They have been said to taste like scrambled eggs, and when cooked they taste like chicken.
1 Witchetty grubs live in burrows that they create, up to 60 cm (23 inches) underground. 2  Witchetty grub moths have a wingspan of up to 16cm (6 inches) and don’t eat, but instead use stored energy from the grub form. 1 Witchetty grubs are part of the traditional diet of indigenous Australians. 2  Witchetty grubs are eaten either raw or cooked and are very high in protein and have a nutty flavour. 3  They have been said to taste like scrambled eggs, and when cooked they taste like chicken.
1 The witchetty grub can grow up to 12 cm (4.7 inches) in size. 2  Witchetty grubs live in burrows that they create, up to 60 cm (23 inches) underground. 3  Witchetty grub moths have a wingspan of up to 16cm (6 inches) and don’t eat, but instead use stored energy from the grub form. 1 Witchetty grubs are part of the traditional diet of indigenous Australians. 2  Witchetty grubs are eaten either raw or cooked and are very high in protein and have a nutty flavour. 3  They have been said to taste like scrambled eggs, and when cooked they taste like chicken.
1 Witchetty grubs are also known as witchety grubs or witjuti grubs. 2  The term witchetty grub is used for large white larvae of moths that chew through wood and eat roots or sap of certain trees and plants. 3  The most common type of witchetty grub is the larvae of the Cossid Moth. 1 Witchetty grubs are part of the traditional diet of indigenous Australians. 2  Witchetty grubs are eaten either raw or cooked and are very high in protein and have a nutty flavour. 3  They have been said to taste like scrambled eggs, and when cooked they taste like chicken.
The Witchetty Grub (E. leucomochla) is indeginous to the Australian continent and can be found in all states except Tasmania (OzAnimals.com, 2011). The grub lives in the roots of Wijuti Bushes and can sometimes live up to 60cm under the ground (EcoTrainingAustralia, 2010) near various other bushes and trees. Witchetty Grubs can be seen wattling across the surface looking for a new home or one that has been abandoned by a larvae that has metamorphed into a moth. 
Witchetty Grub. One of the best know bush foods it is also one of the more elusive. The grub is the larva of a moth and generally only found in central Australia. They can be found in the root system of the Witchetty Bush although not every bush will yield them. They have also been known to be found in the Bloodwood Tree.
A couple of witchetty grubs. The witchetty grub (also spelled witchety grub or witjuti grub) is a term used in Australia for the large, white, wood-eating larvae of several moths. The raw witchetty grub tastes like almonds and when cooked the skin becomes crisp like roast chicken while the inside becomes light yellow, like a fried egg. The word witchetty comes from Adynyamathanha wityu, hooked stick and vartu, grub. Traditionally it is rare for men to dig for them.
Particularly it applies to the larvae of the cossid moth Endoxyla leucomochla, which feeds on the roots of the Witchetty bush (named after the grubs) that is found in central Australia. The term may also apply to larvae of other cossid moths, ghost moths (Hepialidae), and longhorn beetles (Cerambycidae). The raw witchetty grub tastes like almonds and when cooked the skin becomes crisp like roast chicken while the inside becomes light yellow, like a fried egg. The word witchetty comes from Adynyamathanha wityu, hooked stick and vartu, grub. Traditionally it is rare for men to dig for them.
These grubs live about 60 centimetres (24 in) below ground and feed upon the roots of River Red Gum (Eucalyptus camaldulensis). They can also be found under Black Wattle trees, and are attributed as the reason why wattles die within 10 to 15 years. The roots of the Acacia kempeana shrub are another source of the grubs. The raw witchetty grub tastes like almonds and when cooked the skin becomes crisp like roast chicken while the inside becomes light yellow, like a fried egg. The word witchetty comes from Adynyamathanha wityu, hooked stick and vartu, grub. Traditionally it is rare for men to dig for them.