Quantitative ‘“ refers to the specific quantity associated with an object or person. A quantity is something that can be counted or measured. It refers with the amount or the magnitude of the object being described. A quantity can be definitively measured, or quantified.
Quantitative vs Qualitative. Quantitative and Qualitative are two terms between which a variety of differences can be identified. Quantitative has a lot to do with the quantity of an object or a person. On the other hand, qualitative has a lot to do with the quality or the attribute
When the analysis involves measurements and statistics, it is a quantitative analysis. On the other hand, a non numerical analysis that deals with quality for example comparing traits, species, genus, etc. are considered to be examples of qual
While quantitative research is based on numbers and mathematical calculations (aka quantitative data), qualitative research is based on written or spoken narratives (or qualitative data).
Quantitative has a lot to do with the quantity of an object or a person. A quantity is something that can be counted or measured. It can refer to almost anything such as height, weight, size, length, etc.
In other words, it can be said that qualitative refers to the quality whereas quantity refers to a number. This is one of the main differences between the two terms qualitative and quantitative. This article attempts to provide a broader understanding of the difference between the two words.
Description: Quantitative: Quantity is something that can be counted or measured. Qualitative: Quality is a property or an attribute that a person or an object possesses. So it can be used to describe the object or the person as the case may be.
Quantitative: Quantitative has a lot to do with the quantity of an object or a person. Qualitative: Qualitative has a lot to do with the quality or the attribute
quantitative refers to quantity and can be quantified or measured. while qualitative referes to quality and cannot be quanitifed. When u say X product passes a test that … is qualitative data, while when u say the amount of X present is 10mg/ml that is quantitative data.