Average and Mean are the same thing. They are the sum of the numbers divided by the number of numbers. The Median is just the number in the middle of the group of numbers. For example, in the number group 1, 2, 6 the number 2 is the median. But the average is (1+2+6)/3 = 3.
The similarity between Mean and Average is that both give the aggregate of the number, This means that you add up all the numbers and divide by the number of terms. For example if there are 3 terms: 4, 8 and 15 then first add 4+8+15 which will be equal to 27.
The difference between Mean and Average is that the term Mean is used more in Statistics and the term Average is used more in Arithmetic. But there is no rule which prohibits the vice versa use which means that Mean can also be used in Arithmetic and Avg if used in Statistics can not be termed as wrong.
The mean is the average you're used to, where you add up all the numbers and then divide by the number of numbers. The median is the middle value in the list of numbers. To find the median, your numbers have to be listed in numerical order, so you may have to rewrite your list first.
In statistics, mean and median are different measures of the central tendency in a set of data, or the tendency of the numbers to bunch around a particular value. In a group of values, it might be desirable to find the one that is most typical.
3. For a data set, the mean is the sum of the values divided by the number of values. There are other statistical measures that use samples that some people confuse with averages-including 'median' and 'mode'. Wikipedia explains:
To understand the difference between mean and average, we need to understand how mean is calculated in statistics. In statistics, a distribution is the set of all possible values for terms that represent defined events. For example, all of the test results of junior high school history class would be a distribution.
The definition of median and mean and the difference between the two terms is poorly understood by many people and while in many data sets, there is only a marginal difference between the two from a practical standpoint, there is sometimes a stark difference between the two.