1 Outdoor Projects.  Cost to Lay a Brick Sidewalk. A brick sidewalk improves a home and property now and for years to come. Find the cost to install a brick sidewalk yourself compared with the labor and material cost to hire a landscaper or mason. Enter your ZIP Code to adjust the cost to where you live. You'll find advice about designing a brick walkway at www.thisoldhouse.com in the video How to Design a Brick Walkway.. Now you know the average cost to lay a brick sidewalk, which includes the labor and material, and what’s involved, so you can decide to do it yourself or hire a contractor.
How to Calculate the Cost* of Bricklaying. 1  It takes 49 bricks to cover 1 square metre of wall. 2  A bricklayer can lay between 200 and 300 bricks per day. 3  A qualified bricklayer working with an apprentice can lay between 500 to 900 bricks a day, depending on the terrain, the complexity of the project and other factors. 1 However, brickies usually work with at least one apprentice, so their hourly rates aren't a reliable indication of what your job will cost. 2  Bricklayers often charge per brick. 3  The charge per brick averages about $1.00, but can range from $.90 to $1.10, depending on the job and location.
Do you need to know the average cost to install Brick Patio in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Brick Patio job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update. 
Cost of Materials. The cost of adding a new wall to a home depends on the material used. Brick walls are often an affordable option, and a hollow brick wall costs around $25.40 per square foot. Hollow bricks feature a unique design with a durable shell and a hollow space in the center of each brick. Traditional brick walls cost around $14.10 per square foot. 
Can someone give me approx. costs to lay bricks (per sq. ft or per brick)? We're building a home in North Jersey and wondering if someone around my area can give me realistic installation costs. Excluding the 'additional items', most brick masons for straight running bond brick is about $650 to $750 per thousand for the good masons in Southeast/Central Virginia. English bond is a little bit more, and Flemish bond is about $1.10 to $1.25/brick. If you're building a nice house, don't ever skimp on the mason.
The above basic price is just straight lay brick. If you are doing columns, that's a big adjustment up, and there's a big list of extras. As a rule, I figure $7/sf for brick when building a home, which translates to $1/brick for modular size and $9/sf for brick on a commercial project, $1.30/brick for modular size. A cube of brick, which is approximately 500 bricks. Two cubes of brick make up a thousand, so $300/thousand brick means $150/cube. If you buy less than a cube, they hit you hard on the price, so round up and besides, running short a few brick sucks.
1 Bricklayers often charge per brick. 2  The charge per brick averages about $1.00, but can range from $.90 to $1.10, depending on the job and location. 3  For some jobs, the cost per brick can be much higher. 4  It takes 49 bricks to cover 1 square metre of wall. 1 However, brickies usually work with at least one apprentice, so their hourly rates aren't a reliable indication of what your job will cost. 2  Bricklayers often charge per brick. 3
Everything depends on the state your in. 1.80 per brick avg. Gotta add to this, even if it is specific to Georgia, as I think our costs are probably 90% of the national average, so add 10% and then adjust for your costs relative to the national average...or something like that :-). Bricks usually cost me $225 to $450 per thousand. A cube of brick, which is approximately 500 bricks. Two cubes of brick make up a thousand, so $300/thousand brick means $150/cube. If you buy less than a cube, they hit you hard on the price, so round up and besides, running short a few brick sucks.
Here, brick is $225 to $300 a thousand, depending on what you pick out, and I estimate modular brick at 7 brick per sq ft which includes waste. Then you gotta add in the sand-maybe $225 for 12 yds delivered, ~1 yd per 1000 brick and $7 a bag for mortar. I think it's 7 bags per 1000 bricks. 