Satellite view is showing Bhutan a small landlocked kingdom in southern Asia, on the southeastern slopes of the Himalayas, north of India. Countries with international borders to Bhutan are China (Xizang-Tibet Autonomous Region), and India. The country has a population of 760,000 inhabitants (in 2015). 
detailed map of Bhutan and neighboring countries. Welcome to google maps Bhutan locations list, welcome to the place where google maps sightseeing make sense! With comprehensive destination gazetteer, maplandia.com enables to explore Bhutan through detailed satellite imagery — fast and easy as never before. 
Bhutan (/buːˈtɑːn/ ; Dzongkha འབྲུག་ཡུལ Dru UE, [ü ʈʂɦu]), yː officially The kingdom Of, bhutan is a landlocked country In South asia at the eastern end of The. himalayas Bhutan has diplomatic relations with 52 countries and the European Union and has missions in India, Bangladesh, Thailand and Kuwait. It has two UN missions, one in New York and one in Geneva. Only India and Bangladesh have residential embassies in Bhutan, while Thailand has a consulate office in Bhutan.
Bhutan Description. The legendary land of Bhutan was first settled in the ninth century by wandering migrants from the Tibet region of China. Called Druk Yul (Land of the Thunder Dragon) by its people, the strikingly beautiful Kingdom of Bhutan lies in the eastern Himalayas, sandwiched between China and India. 
Bhutan is bordered by India to the east and south and China to the north. China, India. Chapcha, Chukha, Daga, Dewangiri, Dzong, Gasa, Geylegphug, Jakar, Mongar, Phuntsholing, Punakha, Shemgang, Singye Dzong, Sombe, Tashigang, Thimphu, Tongsa and Wangdiphodrang. Himalaya Mountains. 
Map Index. Bhutan, officially the Kingdom of Bhutan, is also known as the land of the dragon. It is a small, land-locked mountainous nation in Asia, located in the eastern Himalaya Mountains north of India and south of China; it controls several key Himalayan mountain passes. Map is showing Bhutan and the surrounding countries with international borders, district boundaries, the national capital Thimphu, provincial capitals (administrative headquarters), major towns, main roads, trek routes, rivers, mountains, and Bhutan's international airport at Paro.
Bhutan Maps. In 1865, Britain and Bhutan signed the Treaty of Sinchulu, under which Bhutan would receive an annual subsidy in exchange for ceding some border land to British India.
Bhutan, a land locked state is located in South Asia. It is bordered by India, China, Nepal and Bangladesh. Its capital city is Thimphu. Print. The Kingdom of Bhutan is a country located in South Asia. The human history of Bhutan dates back to around 2000 BC, with archaeological evidence of the indigenous people of the region. Buddhism is closely tied to Bhutan's history and politics as the nation was shaped over time. Buddhism reached Bhutan around the 7th century, with the conversion of the king of Tibet, Songtsan Gampo, who ruled from 627 to 649. Songtsan Gampo converted to Buddhism and soon established temples in Bhutan.
It is bound by India to the north, east and west, Myanmar to the southeast and by the Bay of Bengal to the south.... Bhutan Bhutan is a landlocked country located in the East Himalayan Mountains of Central Asia. It is bound by the Tibetan region of China to the north as well as India to the south, east and west.... 