Streptococcus pneumoniae is a Gram-positive diplococcus with a well-formed capsule. This organism is one of the commonest seen in community-acquired pneumonias, accounting for up to 25% of these infections. 
The most common cause of pneumonia in the United States is the bacterium Streptococcus (strep-to-KOK-us) pneumoniae, or pneumococcus (nu-mo-KOK-us). 
Streptococcus pneumoniae, or pneumococcus, is a Gram-positive, alpha-hemolytic, facultative anaerobic member of the genus Streptococcus. A significant human pathogenic bacterium, S. pneumoniae was recognized as a major cause of pneumonia in the late 19th century, and is the subject of many humoral immunity studies. S. pneumoniae is one of the most common causes of bacterial meningitis in adults and young adults, along with Neisseria meningitidis, and is the leading cause of bacterial meningitis in adults in the USA. It is also one of the top two isolates found in ear infection, otitis media.
What is Streptococcus pneumoniae. The type Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) is a gram-positive, round-oval to lanceolate cocci with a size of 0.5 to 1.25 mm, which as the previous name Diplococcus pneumoniae expresses, are usually mounted in pairs. The adjacent cells are surrounded by a polysaccharide capsule. 
Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria, or pneumococcus, can cause many types of illnesses. Some of these illnesses can be life-threatening. Pneumococcus is the most common cause of bloodstream infections, pneumonia, meningitis, and middle ear infections in young children. You have probably heard of pneumonia, which is an infection of the lungs. Pneumonia can be caused by many different bacteria, viruses, and even fungi. Pneumococcus is one of the most common causes of severe pneumonia. Besides pneumonia, pneumococcus can cause other types of infections too, such as:
Pneumococcal disease is defined as infections that are caused by the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae, also known as pneumococcus. The most common types of pneumococcal infections include middle ear infections, sinus infections, lung infections (pneumonia), blood stream infections (bacteremia), and meningitis. 
A person with streptococcus pneumonia has inflammation and swelling of the lung, caused by an infection with the bacteria, Streptococcus pneumoniae. The inflammation causes fluid to collect in the lung, which can prevent oxygen from entering the bloodstream. 
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Streptococcus pneumonia is a type of highly contagious respiratory infection. It is caused by the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae, a widespread pathogen that can also cause sinusitis, ear infections, and other health complications. The condition is most commonly seen in young children, elderly people, and adults with weakened immune systems. Chronic coughing may be a symptom of streptococcus pneumonia. Streptococcus pneumonia is caused by the bacteria streptococcus pneumoniae, which also causes ear infections. Chest pain can be caused by streptococcus pneumonia. During hospitalization for streptococcus pneumonia, the patient receives intravenous fluids and antibiotic
Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) are lancet-shaped, gram-positive, facultative anaerobic bacteria with over 90 known serotypes. Most S. pneumoniae serotypes have been shown to cause disease, but only a minority of serotypes produce the majority of pneumococcal infections. 