There is not a set amount for a whiplash claim. The amount of compensation you will receive depends on the severity of your injuries. Typically, $1,280 to $4,140 is paid for m … inor whiplash where recovery takes place within one year of the accident. Confidence votes 27. If there is a total recovery of whiplash within 1 and 2 years, a typical payout would be in the region of £1500 and £2500. Yes, the whiplash payout is likely to be in that range, however since each case is unique in its own sense we cant be sure about i
Deterioration In Your Quality of Life. What several sources of “typical” payouts for whiplash also tend to overlook is that you can claim whiplash injury compensation for any deterioration in your quality of life – even if your injury is relatively minor (or low on the Quebec Task Force scale). The most common question we are asked is “What is the typical payout for whiplash?”. There seems to be a common misconception amongst the general public that there is an automatic entitlement to a €10,000 payout for a whiplash injury.
There is not a set amount for a whiplash claim. The amount of compensation you will receive depends on the severity of your injuries. Typically, $1,280 to $4,140 is paid for minor whiplash where recovery takes place within one year of the accident. And for severe, serious injury where recurring pain and possibility of surgery may occur, this can be from $13,000 to $24,000. The average payout for pain and suffering from a car accident is  based on the type of injury and the duration of pain associated  with the injury. Payouts also take into co … nsideration the amount of  time a person has been kept from their normal duties, such as a  job.
Each whiplash claim is unique making it very difficult to provide an average whiplash payout figure. Your compensation amount will depend on the level of injury suffered, and the effects it may have had on your life. Each whiplash claim is unique due to the uniqueness of the events that caused the accident. Equally, the amount of compensation you may receive is unique to the nature, severity and effects your injuries may have on your life.
Tweet on Twitter. The average payout for whiplash claims is a difficult figure to arrive at because whiplash can affect people very differently, with results ranging from minor pain in the shoulder to paraplegia. It is possible, however, to look at the average for different kinds of whiplash injury. At Accident Advice Helpline we advise that you always claim for whiplash even if your injuries are minor because sometimes such injuries can develop into something worse a few months or years later. If you suffer whiplash that leaves you with soft tissue damage and ongoing pain in your shoulder or neck but your doctor thinks it will heal after a few months, you may still be entitled to compensation in the range of £1,000 to £5,500.
The amount of compensation you receive for your whiplash injury depends on the severity of your injuries. Following your accident, if you notice any symptoms of whiplash you must immediately seek medical assistance from your local GP or Accident & Emergency Department. Symptoms of whiplash include: 
Minor whiplash injury payouts. A full recovery after a few weeks to a year – the payouts range between £875 to £2,850. A full recovery within 2 years – payouts range between £2,850 to £5,150. The average payout for a minor whiplash is usually around £2,850 – but to get this amount, you will require the services of a fully qualified personal injury lawyer to represent you in a claim. Moderate whiplash injuries range from £5,150 to £16,400. As you can see, it’s quite a large bracket. Moderate whiplash injury payouts. Moderate whiplash injuries range from £5,150 to £16,400. As you can see, it’s quite a large bracket. There will be a lot of information, including medical reports, required to correctly value your whiplash claim.