Snubber Networks can be used effectively in many situations such as arc suppression, damping oscillation, back electromotive force suppression, and DV/DT suppression. Here is a quick overview of the benefits of using Snubber Networks in each application. The dielectric material in capacitors, used in Snubber Networks, affords a very high degree of voltage withstand strength. All resistors are non-inductive types to ensure a high degree of protection against pulse potentials.
Snubber Networks. The function of the snubber network is to limit the rate of change of the voltage across the motor (out-put terminals of the L6203) when one of the DMOS devices is turned off. The snubber capacitor is calculated from the peak current and the target rise time. The capacitance is given by the equation: When the snubber network is installed in the application the voltage transients on the terminals of the L6203 are greatly reduced, as shown in figure 2. The drawback of a snubber network of this type is that a current spike will flow into the transistor when it is switched on as the capacitor is discharged. The theoretical peak value of this spike is given by the equation : The following graphs are of operating voltages with snubber network and bypass capacitor
Snubber Networks Snubber Networks are easily selectable electronic components designed to prevent or substantially minimize the occurrence of arcing and noise generation in relay and switch contacts. Snubber Networks consist of specially designed capacitors and resistors connected in series. The dielectric material in capacitors, used in Snubber Networks, affords a very high degree of voltage withstand strength. All resistors are non-inductive types to ensure a high degree of protection against pulse potentials.
Snubbers are frequently used in electrical systems with an inductive load where the sudden interruption of current flow leads to a sharp rise in voltage across the current switching device, in accordance with Faraday's law. When the current flowing is DC, a simple rectifier diode is often employed as a snubber. The snubber diode is wired in parallel with an inductive load (such as a relay coil or electric motor). The diode is installed so that it does not conduct under normal conditions.
This article details how transients are produced and describes a mitigation method using snubbers. A snubber is a resistor-capacitor (RC) network that is designed for the system. Snubbers are a cost-effective method of reducing switching-induced transients. At many installations that use medium-voltage switching, transformer damage is often attributed to lighting. 
As a general rule of thumb, the following chart should be considered. Snubber Networks are available in a variety of AC and DC voltage combinations from 125 VAC/600 VDC through 480 VAC/2000 VDC, and 22 through 470 ohms. The dielectric material in capacitors, used in Snubber Networks, affords a very high degree of voltage withstand strength. All resistors are non-inductive types to ensure a high degree of protection against pulse potentials.
If this current is switched into the snubber, the voltage across the snubber network will jump to a value equal to the snubber resistance times the motor current. After the initial step, the rate of change is limited by the motor current charging the snubber capacitor. The snubber capacitor is calculated from the peak current and the target rise time. The capacitance is given by the equation: When the snubber network is installed in the application the voltage transients on the terminals of the L6203 are greatly reduced, as shown in figure 2. The drawback of a snubber network of this type is that a current spike will flow into the transistor when it is switched on as the capacitor is discharged. The theoretical peak value of this spike is given by the equation : The following graphs are of operating voltages with snubber network and bypass
Snubbers. RC Networks (or Snubbers) are used to mitigate transients caused when close coupling medium voltage vacuum breakers with transformers. Snubbers consist of fuses, resistors and capacitors designed to remove the transients and protect the windings of the transformers. 