The average annual salary for an optical lab technician in the US  is $31,000. The average annual salary for this position in  Birmingham, Alabama is $28,000. So with all of that said, a typical starting salary for an inexperienced dermatology tech is usually in the $10-13/hour range. For those with significant experience, it's not uncommon for the pay to range between $15/hour to as high as about $20/hour.
Income and Outlook. Income for most optical laboratory technicians is moderate. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported an average income of $29,920 in May 2011, with the lowest-paid 10 percent earning $18,620 a year or less and the highest-paid 10 percent earning $43,870 a year or more. Optical laboratory technicians spend most of their time preparing lenses. Their job includes selecting blank lenses of generally appropriate size and shape, and cutting them to fit the selected frame. Then the lenses must be ground to the correct prescription, either by hand or using automated machinery.
The pay really depends on many factors, most importantly geography, job duties, and (quite honestly) how much the dermatologist values his/her employees. So with all of that said, a typical starting salary for an inexperienced dermatology tech is usually in the $10-13/hour range. If you are a field tech for one of the pacemaker manufactur … ing companies, you will likely be in the range of $75k to $95k. These jobs are usually physically taxing as the typical work day is 10-12 hours 5 days a week.
Optical Laboratory Technician Salary. (United States). The average rate for an Optical Laboratory Technician is $11.99 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. Some positions may require experience in the optical field and customer service skills. Usually, a minimum of a high school diploma or equivalent is required to be an optical laboratory technician, and flexible hours may be necessary depending on order volume.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that optical lab technicians -- which it classifies as ophthalmic lab technicians -- earned $29,920 a year on average as of May 2011. Technicians in Vermont, Connecticut, Maryland and Washington earned more than $35,500 a year on average. Florida employed the most optical lab technicians of any state. Workers there $32,280 a year on average. Texas ranked second in terms of total employment and paid an average of $23,800 a year
Optical laboratory technicians, also known as ophthalmic laboratory technicians or manufacturing opticians, are the skilled craftspeople who turn prescriptions into eyewear. They work in a variety of clinical and retail settings, preparing lenses for use in eyeglasses and other optical equipment. Optical laboratory technicians spend most of their time preparing lenses. Their job includes selecting blank lenses of generally appropriate size and shape, and cutting them to fit the selected frame. Then the lenses must be ground to the correct prescription, either by hand or using automated machinery.
Most optical laboratory technicians work in optical laboratories or in a retail store under the direction of a lab supervisor. They may also work for dispensing opticians, ophthalmologists, or optometrists. They do not have much contact with the general public and perform much of their work independently. 
Salary Range. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that optical lab technicians -- which it classifies as ophthalmic lab technicians -- earned $29,920 a year on average as of May 2011. That translates into $14.38 an hour. Technicians in Vermont, Connecticut, Maryland and Washington earned more than $35,500 a year on average. Florida employed the most optical lab technicians of any state. Workers there $32,280 a year on average. Texas ranked second in terms of total employment and paid an average of $23,800 a yea
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The average annual salary for an optical lab technician in the US is $31,000. The average annual salary for this position in Birmingham, Alabama is $28,000. If you are a field tech for one of the pacemaker manufactur … ing companies, you will likely be in the range of $75k to $95k. These jobs are usually physically taxing as the typical work day is 10-12 hours 5 days a week.