Saint Martin is an island split between the French collectivity of Saint-Martin and the Dutch territory of Sint Maarten (formerly part of the Netherlands Antilles, but now a constituent state of the Kingdom of the Netherlands). It is one of the smallest land masses divided between two countries. 
Dutch Empire. The Dutch Empire (Dutch: Nederlands-koloniale Rijk) comprised the overseas territories controlled by the Dutch Republic and, later, the modern Netherlands from the 17th century to the mid-1950s. The Dutch followed Portugal and Spain in establishing an overseas colonial empire. In Aruba, Bonaire, and Curacao, Curaçao dutch is the official language but spoken as a first language by only seven to eight percent of the, population although most people on the islands can speak the language and the education system on these islands is In dutch at some or all. levels
There are three Caribbean islands that are countries (Dutch: landen) within the Kingdom of the Netherlands: Aruba, Curacao, curaçao And Sint. (Maarten The netherlands is the fourth constituent country in The kingdom of The.). netherlands The Island Regulation originally divided the Netherlands Antilles into four island territories: Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao (CURAçAO), abc and the islands in The Leeward. Islands in, 1983 the island territory of The leeward was split up to form the new island territories Of Sint, Maarten, saba And Sint (EUSTATIUS). sss
Welcome to the Dutch Caribbean, a six island paradise in an emerald green sea. Whether you like diving, surfing, sailing, hiking or simply soaking up the sun on endless snow white beaches, each of the six islands promises you a unique and wonderful vacation. Citizens of other countries must check the entry regulations with the Dutch consulate or embassy. Time Central European Time minus 6 hours in summer; 5 hours in winter, respectively. Vaccination regulations No vaccinations are currently required for a trip to the Dutch Caribbean.
The postal administration of the Netherlands Antilles issued (30 June 1995) six new stamps with the flags and the coats of arms of the islands. The islands consist out of: Curacao, Curaçao, Bonaire St, Maarten saba And St. Eustatius only the last islands'don t have a flag and coat of arms of their. own The Netherlands Antilles arose in 1954 as an autonomous entity within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Until the achievement of the Status Aparte (separate status) for Aruba on January 1, 1986 the Dutch Antilles consisted of the Caribbean islands of Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao, Curaçao, Saba St eustatius And St (Maarten. St). martin
Not one country owns all of the Carribean Islands. Many of them are independent. However, there are some that are parts of countries, such as Puerto Rico, which is U.S. territ … ory. The only four countries that own some of the islands are the U.S., Great Britain, the Netherlands, and France. The rest are independent. The islands in the Caribbean are Haiti, the British Virgin islands,  Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Antigua, and Puerto Rico. They also  include Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, … the Turks and Caicos  islands.
Language The offical language on all six islands is Dutch. On the ABC Islands English and Spanish are also widely spoken. The colloquial language is Papiamento a creole mixture of Spanish, Dutch, English, French, Portuguese and native Indian and African. The local language on the SSS Islands is English. Citizens of other countries must check the entry regulations with the Dutch consulate or embassy. Time Central European Time minus 6 hours in summer; 5 hours in winter, respectively. Vaccination regulations No vaccinations are currently required for a trip to the Dutch Caribbean.
Collectively, Aruba and the other Dutch islands in the Caribbean are often called the Netherlands Antilles or the Dutch Caribbean. Aruba is one of the four constituent countries that form the Kingdom of the Netherlands, along with the Netherlands, Curacao curaçao And Sint. maarten