Burgersfort is located in the valley of the Spekboom River at the edge of the Bushveld Complex in the Greater Tubatse Local Municipality, near the border of the two provinces Limpopo and Mpumalanga. The town was named after a hexagonal fort built there during the 1876-77 Second War against the Bapedi of Chief Sekhukhune, and was named after President TF Burgers of the ZAR. The region is rich in platinum and platinum group metals.
The Limpopo Province is situated at the North Eastern corner of South Africa and shares borders with Botswana, Zimbabwe and Mozambique. It forms the link between South Africa and countries further a field in sub-Saharan Africa. 
Burgersfort Lodge is situated in the heart of the New Platinum City of Burgersfort, located on the border of the Bright Mpumalanga and the loving Limpopo provinces. User rating: Khadimas Lodge offers comfortable self-catering accommodation for short or long term stays in Burgersfort. Burgersfort town is located near the border of the two provinces of Limpopo and Mpumalanga, making is a convenient stopover.
Browse Schools in Burgersfort at School4SA. The south African province of BURGERSFORT has 190 schools all suburbs and townships. You can review the schools summary below or for a full prifule on any school you can click on the links below. To refine the results by specialisation or by phase please use the links to you right-hand side to view the results
Welcome to the Burgersfort google satellite map! This place is situated in Lydenburg, Mpumalanga, South Africa, its geographical coordinates are 24° 40' 0 South, 30° 20' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Burgersfort. See Burgersfort photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Burgersfort in South Africa. Burgersfort hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
Mpumalanga Destinations Burgersfort, Highlands Meander. Although it is officially situated in the scenic province of Mpumalanga, Burgersfort is located very close to the Limpopo border too. This part of South Africa is characterised by rolling vistas of unspoilt countryside, lush plantations, and verdant valleys. 
Marula is 73% owned by Implats and is one of the first operations to have been developed on the relatively under-exploited eastern limb of the Bushveld Complex in South Africa. It is located in the Limpopo Province, some 35 kilometres north-west of Burgersfort. In FY2014 the operation produced 78 500 ounces of platinum in concentrate. The operation comprises two decline shaft systems and a concentrator plant. 
About us. Lapeng Guest Lodge is close to Burgersfort, in the Limpopo province, about 350km from Johannesburg. Established back in the year 2000, Lapeng is one of the pioneers in luxury accommodation in the area. Since then we have built up an untarnished reputation among the visitors of the region. 
Steelpoort is a mining town in Sekhukhune District Municipality in the Limpopo province of South Africa. It is located at the border with Mpumalanga province. 