Problems with the blood circulation system can affect wound healing because the tissues do not get the required supply of oxygen and nutrients. Wound healing is complex, and there can be many causes why it does not happen properly. In spite of all you can do, a cut-even minor-can take a long time to heal. If this is the case, there may be some more severe underlying problem that can lead to dangerous complications. Always consult your doctor for non-healing cuts. Nutrients are important to speed up the healing process. Eating the right diet can have an effect on how long a cut takes to heal. It is recommended to eat vitamin rich, fresh, raw vegetables and fruits.
Get help from a doctor now ›. It depends: If the skin edges are approximated (e.g. Sutures) it takes about a week. If left open to heal, can take longer depending on how wide the cut is. Once initial wound has covered in skin, takes about 6 months for the scars to mature. ...Read more. Dr. Keegan Duchicela Board Certified 8 years in practice 15M people helped. 
As you age, it takes your skin longer to heal. Skin becomes thinner and more transparent, and you lose some of the fat cushion beneath your skin. With less cushioning, your blood vessels are more prone to injury, so even a bump against a table can bruise or break your skin. You may even bleed under your skin. A scab or hard skin crust would quickly form to protect the area while it healed. With older skin, the healing process takes longer because skin cells are not repaired and renewed as quickly. New skin cells take more time to multiply, and it may take a while before a new layer of skin forms.
Even after the wound is healed, it can take up to two years for a scar to settle into its permanent appearance [source: Ditkoff ]. Scar skin tissue isn't like normal skin tissue -- it doesn't have sweat glands or hair growing from it. It's also more vulnerable to ultraviolet rays. If the cut or scrape was a shallow one that only affected the outer epidermis layer, then there shouldn't be a scar when your skin heals itself. If the cut went deeper, into the dermis of the skin, then cicatrisation begins as your body moves to create fibrous scar tissue from the granular tissue.
Wound healing is an intricate process where the skin or other body tissue repairs itself after injury. Scarless wound healing is a concept based on the healing or repair of the skin (or other tissue/organs) after injury with the aim of healing with subjectively and relatively less scar tissue than normally expected.
If a small burn has been surgically closed with skin grafts, it may heal quickly. But larger wounds or more serious burns take up to three months or longer to heal. Again, burns may have varying depths, depending on the cause of the burn or the damage. One part of the burn injury may be a first or second-degree burn. A Dr. Alexander Majidian, MD, Plastic Surgery, answered. The length of time it takes a burn to heal depends on how deep it is. In this video, Alexander Majidian, MD, FACS of the Grossman Burn Center at West Hills Hospital, discusses how long each degree of burn will typically take to heal.
1 Bleaching or peeling of the skin can help lighten the skin for a more uniform skin tone, and the skin may fade on its own over time. 2  A small number of people have a loss of color in the treated skin 6 to 12 months after the procedure. 3  This effect may be permanent, especially with deeper laser treatments. 
How Skin Heals. When your skin gets cut, your body springs into action to heal the wound. First, the body works to limit blood loss by reducing the amount of blood flowing to the wounded area. If the cut or scrape was a shallow one that only affected the outer epidermis layer, then there shouldn't be a scar when your skin heals itself. If the cut went deeper, into the dermis of the skin, then cicatrisation begins as your body moves to create fibrous scar tissue from the granular tissue.