The current Junior U.S. Senator from Delaware is Democrat Chris Coons. He was sworn into the Office of U.S. Senator on November 15th, 2010. Chris Coons is 52 years old and serving his second elected term as U.S. Senator. His Delaware senatorial seat will be up for regular election on November 3rd, 2020. Governor of Delaware The current Governor of Delaware is Democrat Jack Markell. He was sworn into the Office of Governor on January 20th, 2009.
According to the exit polls, 64 percent of voters in the Delaware Democratic Primary were Caucasian and they favored Clinton by a margin of 56-40 compared to the 28 percent of African American voters who backed Obama by a margin of 86-9. A total of 18 delegates were selected. The Delaware Republican Party rallied behind John McCain, and was the declared winner of the primary election after successfully taking all three Delaware counties. McCain was followed by Mitt Romney in second and then by Mike Huckabee in third.
In Delaware, conservative political commentator Christine O'Donnell easily defeated nine-time U.S. Rep. Mike Castle in the Republican U.S. Senate primary, giving the Tea Party movement another major victory over a candidate backed by the national GOP. In response, conservative stalwart Bill Kristol, who fears O'Donnell is incapable of winning the Senate seat in November, said: I know Sarah Palin. I respect Sarah Palin. And with all due respect -- Christine O'Donnell is no Sarah Palin..
McCain was the expected favorite in the 2008 primary among the Republican candidates; his campaign was led by Delaware's only House representative, Rep. Michael N. Castle. In Delaware, 27,412 of the 102, 455 registered Republicans voted in the election, resulting in a 26.76 percent turn-out rate. A total of 18 delegates were selected. The Delaware Republican Party rallied behind John McCain, and was the declared winner of the primary election after successfully taking all three Delaware counties. McCain was followed by Mitt Romney in second and then by Mike Huckabee in third.
1 Only Democrats can vote in the Democratic Primary. 2  Only Republicans can vote in the Republican Primary. 3  August 18th is the last day to register to vote before the Primary. 4  The deadline to change party affiliation is the last Friday in May. 5  You can change your party affiliation after the Primary. 1 Only Republicans can vote in the Republican Primary. 2  August 18th is the last day to register to vote before the Primary. 3  The deadline to change party affiliation is the last Friday in May. 4
The election would determine who would fill the balance of Biden's term, which would end on January 3, 2015. In one of the most surprising election results of the 2010 campaign season, Castle was defeated in the Republican primary for the US Senate seat by Christine O'Donnell. As the hand-picked choice of the popular Governor du Pont, he easily won election as Governor of Delaware, defeating former Delaware Supreme Court Justice William T. Quillen. In the campaign, Castle was criticized for being a shadow of his mentor and only promising an extension of du Pont’s program.
Tuesday 26 April 2016: All 16 of Delaware's delegates to the Republican National Convention are allocated to the presidential contender receiving the greatest number of votes statewide in today's Delaware Presidential Primary. [Rules of the Republican Party of the State Of Delaware. Article XI. 
1 Delaware's Primary is the second Tuesday after the first Monday in September. 2  It is on September 9, 2014. 3  Polls are open from 7 a.m. until 8 p.m. 1 Only Republicans can vote in the Republican Primary. 2  August 18th is the last day to register to vote before the Primary. 3  The deadline to change party affiliation is the last Friday in May. 4  You can change your party affiliation after
Democratic takeover chances have dwindled below 10 percent in Ohio, Kentucky, Missouri, and North Carolina. Democrats have better chances in New Hampshire, but the Republican Kelly Ayotte, who narrowly won her primary on Tuesday night, is the clear favorite there. 
Tea Party favorite Christine O'Donnell beat nine-term Republican Rep. Mike Castle in Delaware's GOP Senate primary. In response, conservative stalwart Bill Kristol, who fears O'Donnell is incapable of winning the Senate seat in November, said: I know Sarah Palin. I respect Sarah Palin. And with all due respect -- Christine O'Donnell is no Sarah Palin..