1 Jargon-Colorless, pale gray, or pale yellow variety of Zircon. 2  Matura Diamond-Trade name for colorless Zircon. 3  Starlite-Blue gem variety of Zircon. 4  The color of Starlite is rarely natural, and is almost always heat treated. It is often used as a cheaper, yet natural alternative to Diamond. The other color forms (yellow, green, pink, and purple) are less often seen in jewelry.Zircon is the traditional birthstone for December. VARIETIES. 1  Jacinth-Yellow, orange, brown, or red variety of Zircon
Zircon is an important gemstone of many colors, and is an historical gemstone used for thousands of years. It is sometimes looked upon as a cheap Diamond simulant, but in actuality it can be a valuable gem. Its color diversity is caused by traces of certain impurities, some of which are radioactive. It is often used as a cheaper, yet natural alternative to Diamond. The other color forms (yellow, green, pink, and purple) are less often seen in jewelry.Zircon is the traditional birthstone for December. VARIETIES. 1  Jacinth-Yellow, orange, brown, or red variety of Zircon
- Lydia Dyer, gem courtesy of John Dyer & Co. Zircon is a gemstone that’s not commonly known among jewelry buyers, which is a shame considering the number of beautiful colors it comes in. These include earth tones such as cinnamon, sherry, yellow, orange, and red. 
In the past, yellow zircon was known by the name jargoon or jargon, a word we use today with a seemingly unrelated meaning. Yellow zircon includes the color range from pale to canary yellow, greenish yellow, and gold. It exhibits properties normal for zircon, but it can be confused with yellow sapphire. Sri Lanka is the main source of crystals, the heat-treated, red-brown material. A round or oval mixed cut is commonly used.
The crystal structure of zircon is tetragonal crystal system. The natural color of zircon varies between colorless, yellow-golden, red, brown, blue, and green. Colorless specimens that show gem quality are a popular substitute for diamond and are also known as Matura diamond. Zircon is ubiquitous in the crust of Earth. It occurs as a common accessory mineral in igneous rocks (as primary crystallization products), in metamorphic rocks and as detrital grains in sedimentary rocks. Large zircon crystals are rare.
Zircon Color. Zircon in its purest form is completely colorless (white), but owing to trace impurities, it can occur in a wide range of interesting colors, including yellow, orange, red, green, blue, violet, brown and combinations in between. Yellow-brown to orange and red zircon are the most common occurrences, along with colorless.
Description: Zircon is well known and popular gem quality. Zircon named derived from the Arabic word Zargun, which meaning is golden color. It's one of the heavier stone. It is alternative of diamond. Shiny and deep color blue and green is most valuable. Blue and white zircon is heat treated. 
Zircon (/ˈzɜrkɒn/ or /ˈzɜrkən/ ; including hyacinth or yellow zircon) is a mineral belonging to the group of nesosilicates. Its chemical name is zirconium silicate and its corresponding chemical formula is Zr SiO4. Zircon is ubiquitous in the crust of Earth. It occurs as a common accessory mineral in igneous rocks (as primary crystallization products), in metamorphic rocks and as detrital grains in sedimentary rocks. Large zircon crystals are rare.
From a chemical point of view zircon is zirconium silicate. Gem name comes from the Persian word zargun. Translated from the Persian zar meaning is gold, and gun meaning is color. Consequently, zircon in that language means gold color gem. In addition to the most beautiful golden-yellow and red zircon gems found brown, yellowish-green and sky-blue stones. 