Ecchymosis and Petechiae. Ecchymosis is often confused with petechiae. Like Ecchymosis, Petechiae also appear as tiny red spots and caused due to hemorrhage of blood vessels. However, petechiae and Ecchymosis differ in terms of size. Medical practitioners define Ecchymosis as a small hemorrhage in the mucous membrane or skin. It is also known as bruise or contusion. It is also known sometimes as “hickey” or a small inflammation on the skin. It is pronounced as “e-ki-moh-sis”.
[pētē′kē·ē] sing. petechia. Etymology: It, petecchie, flea-bites. numerous tiny purple or red spots appearing on the skin as a result of tiny hemorrhages within the dermal or submucosal layers. Petechiae range from pinpoint to pinhead size and are flush with the surface. Compare ecchymosis. petechial, adj. 
Petechiae. Petechiae are pinpoint, round spots that appear on the skin as a result of bleeding. The bleeding causes the petechiae to appear red, brown or purple. Petechiae (puh-TEE-kee-ee) commonly appear in clusters and may look like a rash. Usually flat to the touch, petechiae don't lose color when you press on them.
Ecchymosis is a degree of hematoma that is larger than 10mm or more than 1cm in diameter. It is an extravasation of blood in the thin layer of the skin that resulted from a rupture within the blood vessel causing the blood to leak into the layer of the skin. 
For the Colombian band, see Ekhymosis. An ecchymosis is a subcutaneous spot of bleeding (from extravasation of blood) with diameter larger than 1 centimeter. It is similar to (and sometimes indistinguishable from) a hematoma, commonly called a bruise, though the terms are not interchangeable in careful usage. Specifically, bruises are caused by trauma whereas ecchymoses, which are the same as the spots of purpura except larger, are not necessarily caused by trauma, often being caused by pathophysiologic cell function. A broader definition of ecchymosis is the escape of blood into the tissues from ruptured blood vessels.
Petechiae Definition. Petechia is actually a spot on your skin that may be red to purple in color. Petechiae is the plural form when there are groups of spots appearing on the skin. These are results of minor hemorrhage. They may appear like a rash and usually emerge in clusters. Petechiae is a sign of a disease related to low platelet count (thrombocytopenia). It can also occur if extreme pressure is applied to the tissues such as in excessive vomiting, tourniquet application or in too much coughing. Petechiae can occur among the children and the most common cause for them is viral infection.
A petechia, plural petechiae, is a small (1–2 mm) red or purple spot on the skin, caused by a minor bleed (from broken capillary blood vessels). Petechia refers to one of the three descriptive types of bleeding into the skin differentiated by size, the other two being purpura and ecchymosis. Petechiae are by definition less than 3 mm. The term is almost always used in the plural, since a single lesion is seldom noticed or significant. The most common cause of petechiae is through physical trauma such as a hard bout of coughing, holding breath, vomiting or crying, which can result in facial petechiae, especially around the eyes. Petechiae in this instance are harmless and usually disappear within a few days.