Domestic Beers. Beer-A-Rama proudly carries a large variety of domestic beer styles, featuring the products of over 20 brands. Most of our domestics are available in a choice of either cans or non-returnable bottles. We strive to keep our beer priced low, kept in-stock, and always fresh for our customers to enjoy. 
This list discusses the best domestic beers from the United States, including: Bud Light, Budweiser, Coors Light, Miller Lite, Busch, and Michelob Ultra Light. Vote up your favorite domestic beer or add one you love that isn't already on the list. Z. 
Pilsner (also pilsener, pilsen or simply pils) is a type of pale lager. It takes its name from the city of Plzeň, Bohemia, Czech Republic, where it was first produced in 1842. 
1. AMERICAN LIGHT LAGER A. Light/Standard/Premium The standard American, Canadian, Japanese, Mexican, andAustralian beer styles. Light grain and flowery hop aromas. Mayhave slightly fruity aromas from yeast and hop varieties used.Pale straw to pale gold color. Crisp and dry flavor, can havesome sweetness. Very light body from use of a high percentageof adjuncts such as rice or corn. ’Light’ beers have 1/3 fewer calories than Standard;Premium beers tend to have fewer adjuncts or can be all-malt.Commercial Examples: Budweiser (USA), Molson Golden (Canada),Kirin (Japan), Corona (Mexico), Fosters (Australia) .
MUSIC. Kevin Macleod (http://www.incompetech.com). Wikipedia: Michelob is a 5% abv pale lager developed by Adolphus Busch in 1896 as a draught beer for connoisseurs.[8] It was named after Michelob Michelob, a Bohemian brewmaster from Saaz, in the region famous for its Saaz hops. Michelob Classic Dark was made available in 1981 in kegs, with a bottled version following three years later. In 1991, Michelob Golden Draft was introduced to compete against Miller Genuine Draft in the Midwest.1997 saw the introduction of several specialty beers under the Michelob marquee.
This beer's maltiness is less pronounced and its body is light. Non-malt adjuncts are often used, and hop rates are low. Hop bitterness flavor and aroma are low. Carbonation is high and more typical of an American Light Lager than a Classic Dark Lager. Fruity esters, diacetyl an chill haze should not be perceived.
Please try again later. Michelob is a 5% abv pale lager developed by Adolphus Busch in 1896 as a draught beer for connoisseurs. It was named after Michelob Michelob, a Bohemian brewmaster from Saaz, in the region famous for its Saaz hops. In 1961, Anheuser-Busch produced a pasteurized version of Michelob which allowed legal shipment of the beer across state lines. Bottled beer began to be shipped soon after, and the brand was introduced in cans in 1966.
A slightly heavier bodied, colored version of a pale lager. The beer's darkness is sometimes the result of roasted malts, it is often artificial and made with dark caramel syrups. The taste may include mild sweetness from caramel. This style has low to medium hop bitterness levels. Bohemian/Czech Pilsner: Examples: The history of Pilsner beers began in the 1840's in the city of Plzen which is located in the west side of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is currently trying to trademark the term Pilsner so that only beers brewed in their country can be labeled as such.
Color is light to deep gold.Commercial Examples: None 2. EUROPEAN LIGHT LAGER A. Bohemian Pilsner The original inspiration for other light lager beer styles. Aroma isrich with a complex malt and spicy, floral, Saaz hop bouquet.Light gold to deep copper-gold. ’Light’ beers have 1/3 fewer calories than Standard;Premium beers tend to have fewer adjuncts or can be all-malt.Commercial Examples: Budweiser (USA), Molson Golden (Canada),Kirin (Japan), Corona (Mexico), Fosters (Australia) .