1 the intercostal muscles contract, expanding the ribcage. 2  the diaphragm contracts, pulling downwards to increase the volume of the chest. 3  pressure inside the chest is lowered and air is sucked into the lungs. When you inhale inhale: breathe air in 1  : the intercostal muscles contract, expanding the ribcage. 2  the diaphragm contracts, pulling downwards to increase the volume of the chest. 3  pressure inside the chest is lowered and air is sucked into the lungs.
The intercostal muscles are the muscle bands that surround and span between the ribs that alternately lift and compress the rib cage in order to permit respiration. There are two distinct muscle groups: the external and the internal intercostals. 
Intercostal muscles are muscle groups that are situated in between the ribs that create and move the chest wall. The muscles are broken down into three layers, and are primarily used to assist with the breathing process. The external intercostal muscles are responsible for forced and quiet inhalation. They raise the ribs and expand the chest cavity, and originate from ribs one through 11, with insertion from ribs two to 12. The internal intercostal muscles are responsible for forced exhalation.
Best Answer: The diaphram and the intercostal muscles are NOT the same thing, although they do both have to do with breathing. The diaphram is the main muscle we use to breath, and does 99% of the work of breathing in a healthy, normal individual. It is located across the bottom of the rib cage. When it contracts, it creates a negative pressure in the upper chest cavity, which expands the lungs, drawing air in. When the diaphram relaxes, you exhale normally. There are two kinds of intercostal muscles; external and internal.
The diaphragm is the major muscle responsible for breathing. It is a thin, dome-shaped muscle that separates the abdominal cavity from the thoracic cavity. During inhalation, the diaphragm contracts, so that it's centre moves caudally (downward) and its edges move rostrally (upward). Along with the diaphragm, the intercostal muscles are one of the most important groups of respiratory muscles. These muscles are attached between the ribs and are important in manipulating the width of the rib cage. There are three layers of intercostal muscles
The diaphragm separates the thoracic cavity containing the heart and lungs, from the abdominal cavity and performs an important function in respiration: as the diaphragm contracts, the volume of the thoracic cavity increases and air is drawn into the lungs. The diaphragm is a dome-shaped structure of muscle and fibrous tissue that separates the thoracic cavity from the abdomen. The dome curves upwards.
In human physiology, the muscles of respiration are those muscles that contribute to inhalation and exhalation, by aiding in the expansion and contraction of the thoracic cavity. The diaphragm and, to a lesser extent, the intercostal muscles drive respiration during quiet breathing. Additional 'accessory muscles of respiration' are typically only used under conditions of high metabolic demand (e.g. exercise) or respiratory dysfunction (e.g. an asthma attack). Along with the diaphragm, the intercostal muscles are one of the most important groups of respiratory muscles. These muscles are attached between the ribs and are important in manipulating the width of the rib cage. There are three layers of intercostal muscles
Report Abuse. respiration holds the relationship During inhalation:The diaphragm becomes flat,the intercostal muscles move upwards and outwards,the lungs is inflamed and pressure decreases,as a result air rushes in to equalize the pressure. When it contracts, it creates a negative pressure in the upper chest cavity, which expands the lungs, drawing air in. When the diaphram relaxes, you exhale normally. There are two kinds of intercostal muscles; external and internal.