Stress can be a cause of magnesium deficiency, and a lack of magnesium tends to magnify the stress reaction, worsening the problem. In studies, adrenaline and cortisol, byproducts of the “fight or flight” reaction associated with stress and anxiety, were associated with decreased magnesium.
shortness of breath from Magnesium. by renee. (shreveport, LA). I have shortness of breath and you mentioned before that it is due to magnesium deficiency. Currently I take about 175 mg per day of magnesium by using the powder form Calm drink.
Magnesium deficiency has been proposed as one cause of the symptoms that occur in association with MVP. 34 In a study of people with severe MVP symptoms, blood levels of magnesium were low in 60% of cases.
It was in 1954 when Flink reported alcoholism as a cause of magnesium deficiency. The deficiency of Magnesium was found to be widely prevalent among alcoholics. Based on studies conducted on animals, the magnesium deficiency is aggravated by the hepatic damage primarily caused by the intake of alcohol.
The causes of a lack of magnesium can include dietary choices, availability of foods high in magnesium, as well as illness, use of certain pharmaceuticals, and genetic factors. Low magnesium can be hard to detect, so the first step to preventing magnesium deficiency is knowing its risk factors.
Muscle tension and muscle spasms can also cause muscle stiffness, as in a stiff neck. Potassium deficiency, magnesium deficiency, lack of calcium in the diet, B-6 deficiency, and lack of water (dehydration) are the most common causes of muscle tension and muscle spasms.
Excess Calcium and Magnesium. Magnesium deficiency’s causes can also include supplementation of other competing vitamins and nutrients. Today many people, especially women, supplement with calcium to prevent bone loss and osteoporosis.
The list of health benefits of magnesium is very lengthy. In my book, The Magnesium Miracle I give two sets of lists. 1  The conditions proven scientifically to be caused or triggered by magnesium deficiency. 2  The 100 factors that can promote