Select the messages you would like to delete by clicking the box next to the messages, and then pressing delete. 1  To delete an entire conversation instead of clicking “Delete Messages”, click “Delete Conversation” . 2  Doing this will permanently delete the message/conversation from your inbox. 
You can delete messages one at a time, or you can delete an entire conversation. To delete a message: 1  Click Messages on the left side of your homepage. 2  Open the conversation you want to delete a message from. 3  From the Actions menu, select Delete Messages... 4  Use the checkboxes to select the messages you want to delete. 5  Click Delete. To delete an entire conversation: 1  Click Messages on the left side of your homepage. 2  Open the conversation you want to delete. 3  From the Actions menu, select Delete C
Deleting messages on Facebook is not as easy as deleting your email, as Facebook intends to keep your conversation history in Messages and Facebook Chat intact. To delete messages on Facebook, you will need to open the individual message, go to options and start selecting the message you want to delete. You can open your Facebook messages and you can select to send your messages to ‘Archive’, one by one. However, the message you delete will not be removed permanently; it will reappear when the person sends you new messages. To delete individual messages, you need to open each message first. Do this by clicking on the Actions button and select Delete Messages. You will see all your messages with this friend, with checkboxes on the side of each message. Select the messages you want to delete by ‘checking’ the box next to the message, or simply click on the Delete all button
You can delete messages one at a time, or you can delete an entire conversation. To delete a message: 1  Click Messages on the left side of your homepage. 2  Open the conversation you want to delete a message from. 3  From the Actions menu, select Delete Messages... 4  Use the checkboxes to select the messages you want to delete. To delete an entire conversation: 1  Click Messages on the left side of your homepage. 2  Open the conversation you want to delete. 3  From the Actions menu, select Delete Conversation.
Full transcript: How To Delete Facebook Messages. If you want to delete facebook messages permanently, go to the message icon. You can go straight to your inbox or to the message you want to delete. Click on the message. Click on the 'Actions' dropdown. Click 'Delete Messages'. Select the message you want to delete. If there are other messages in the conversation, you can select them one by one. So select any messages of the conversation to delete, and once you're ready click 'Delete'. If you're sure, click 'Delete Message'. The Facebook message will be deleted. 
You can delete messages one at a time, or you can delete an entire conversation. To delete a message: 1  Click Messages on the left side of your homepage. 2  Open the conversation you want to delete a message from. 3  From the Actions menu, select Delete Messages... 4  Use the checkboxes to select the messages you want to delete. 5  Click Delete
1 Click on the “messages” icon at the top of your FB account page. 2  There are 3 icons located to the immediate right of the Facebook logo. 3  The message icon is the second one, between the icon for friend request and the icon for notifications. 1. Sign on to your Facebook page. You can access your private messages from your Home (newsfeed) page two ways: 1  Click on the “messages” icon at the top of your FB account page. 2  There are 3 icons located to the immediate right of the Facebook logo.