In a ' branching hierarchy' , one or more objects has a degree of 2 or more (and therefore the maximum degree is 2 or higher). For many people, the word hierarchy automatically evokes an image of a branching hierarchy. Two types of containment hierarchies are the subsumptive containment hierarchy and the compositional containment hierarchy. A subsumptive hierarchy  subsumes  its children, and a compositional hierarchy is  composed  of its children.
Social dominance theory (SDT) is a theory of intergroup relations that focuses on the maintenance and stability of group-based social hierarchies. This means that these hierarchies are based on (1) age (i.e., adults have more power and higher status than children), (2) gender (i.e., men have more power and higher status than women), and (3) arbitrary-set, which are group-based hierarchies that are culturally defined and do not necessarily exist in all societies.
A hierarchy (from the Greek ἱεραρχία hierarchia, rule of a high priest, from ἱεράρχης hierarkhes, leader of sacred rites) is an arrangement of items (objects, names, values, categories, etc.) in which the items are represented as being above, below, or at the same level as one another. Two types of containment hierarchies are the subsumptive containment hierarchy and the compositional containment hierarchy. A subsumptive hierarchy  subsumes  its children, and a compositional hierarchy is  composed  of its children.
A hierarchy (in Greek: often used in Geographic studies ἱεραρχία, it is derived from ἱερός -hieros, sacred, and ἄρχω -arkho, rule) is a system of ranking and organizing things or people, where each element of the system (except for the top element) is subordinate to a single other element. Most evolutionary biologists assert a hierarchy extending from the level of the specimen (an individual living organism -- say, a single newt), to the species of which it is a member (perhaps the Eastern Newt), outward to further successive levels of genus, family, order, class, phylum, and kingdom.
A subsumptive containment hierarchy is a classification of objects from the general to the specific. Other names for this type of hierarchy are taxonomic hierarchy and  IS-A hierarchy. The last term describes the relationship between each level—a lower-level object is a member of the higher class. Two types of containment hierarchies are the subsumptive containment hierarchy and the compositional containment hierarchy. A subsumptive hierarchy  subsumes  its children, and a compositional hierarchy is  composed  of its children.
1 Concept hierarchies, even those that start with the same large concept, may differ from person to person. 2  Their classification, especially if based on preference, may be different from yours. 3  Think of it like a pyramid. 4  The bottom is more broad so the subject would be vague at first. 
ANXIETY HIERARCHY: An anxiety hierarchy is constructed for a given individual for a given anxiety disorder with the intention of exposing him or her to the earlier items first, then the later items.. 
A hierarchical organization is an organization structured in a way such that every entity in the organization, except one, is subordinate to a single other entity. This is the dominant mode of organization among large organizations; most corporations, governments, and organized religions are hierarchical organizations. 
The only direct links in a hierarchy, insofar as they are hierarchical, are to one's immediate superior or to one of one's subordinates, although a system that is largely hierarchical can also incorporate alternative hierarchies. Two types of containment hierarchies are the subsumptive containment hierarchy and the compositional containment hierarchy. A subsumptive hierarchy  subsumes  its children, and a compositional hierarchy is  composed  of its children.
n. in the study of of behavior, refers to a ranking of possible behavioral responses based on the relative probablity that each of them will be elicited from a person. As a result, more-probable behaviors rank higher than those which are less-probable. 