Afghanistan /aefˈɡaenɨstaen/ (æfˈɡænɨstæn / Pashto: dari, افغانستان), afġānistān officially The Islamic republic Of, afghanistan is a landlocked country located Within South asia And Central. Asia it has a population of approximately 32, million making it the 42nd most populous country in the. world Excavations of prehistoric sites by Louis Dupree and others suggest that humans were living in what is now Afghanistan at least 50,000 years ago, and that farming communities in the area were among the earliest in the world.
Area: total: 652,230 sq km. land: 652,230 sq km. water: 0 sq km. Definition: This entry includes three subfields. Total area is the sum of all land and water areas delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines. Land area is the aggregate of all surfaces delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines, excluding inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Water area is the sum of the surfaces of all inland water bodies, such as lakes, reservoirs, or rivers, as delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines. Source: CIA World Factbook-This page was last updated on June 30, 2015. 1  Area by year chart.
Afghanistan /aefˈɡaenɨstaen/ (æfˈɡænɨstæn / Pashto: dari, افغانستان), afġānistān officially The Islamic republic Of, afghanistan is a landlocked country located Within South asia And Central. asia Excavations of prehistoric sites by Louis Dupree and others suggest that humans were living in what is now Afghanistan at least 50,000 years ago, and that farming communities in the area were among the earliest in the world.
Land area (sq. km) in Afghanistan was last measured at 39516 in 2014, according to the World Bank. In most cases the definition of inland water bodies includes major rivers and lakes.This page has the latest values, historical data, forecasts, charts, statistics, an economic calendar and news for Land area (sq. km) in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan Description. A turbulent past as well as a chaotic present describes the country of Afghanistan perfectly. Humans have been living in and around Afghanistan's region for at least 50,000 years. It has been suggested that the area was home to some of the earliest farming communities in the world. It was invaded and conquered (over the centuries) by the Persians, Greeks, Arabs, Mongols, Tartars and British. By the 16th century, and lasting until the early 18th century, Afghanistan fell under the rule of three regional kingdoms: Khanate of Bukhara in the north, Shi'a Safavids in the west, with the remaining area was controlled by the Delhi Sultanate.
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and east; Iran in the west; Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan in the north; and China in the far northeast. Its territory covers 652,000 km 2 (252,000 sq mi), making it the 41st largest country in the world. Excavations of prehistoric sites by Louis Dupree and others suggest that humans were living in what is now Afghanistan at least 50,000 years ago, and that farming communities in the area were among the earliest
Afghanistan's Korengal Valley -- located roughly north of Peshawar, Pakistan -- is the scene of some of the fiercest fighting in the tribal area during 2008. For centuries the wild tribal area -- stretching 500 miles along the Afghan border -- has been lawless, violent and remote. 
A country is a nation, and Afghanistan predates nations as a place  of settlement by about 50,000 years. At least people have been  known to live there for about that long. … In fact, Afghanistan is  thought to be one of the oldest permanent settlement sights known,  possibly predating Egypt and Mesopotamia. You are apart of a combat patrol in a city in Afghanistan and there are squad-sized insurgent forces operating in the area. Fields of fire, avenues of approach, obstacles, and cover and concealment. 8 people found this useful.
Human habitation in Afghanistan dates back to the Middle Paleolithic Era, and the country's strategic location along the Silk Road connected it to the cultures of the Middle East and other parts of Asia. Excavations of prehistoric sites by Louis Dupree and others suggest that humans were living in what is now Afghanistan at least 50,000 years ago, and that farming communities in the area were among the earliest in the world.
CountryCode.org is your complete guide to make a call from anywhere in the world, to anywhere in the world. This page details Afghanistan phone code. The Afghanistan country code 93 will allow you to call Afghanistan from another country. Afghanistan telephone code 93 is dialed after the IDD. Afghanistan international dialing 93 is followed by an area code. The Afghanistan area code table below shows the various city codes for Afghanistan. Afghanistan country codes are followed by these area codes. With the complete Afghanistan dialing code, you can make your international call. 