One thing I like about Vistex Support is the fact that when you have an issue with it you can log a message through the service marketplace from SAP itself (service.sap.com), and the message is routed to a vistex development directly, which sure speeds things up. Good Luck, SAP Logistics Sales and Distribution. The SAP Logistics SD group is for the discussion of specific configuration, administration, and development issues that arise when utilizing the SAP Logistics Sales and Distribution component.
SAP is headquartered in Walldorf, Baden-Wuerttemberg, württemberg with regional offices in 130. Countries the company has 293,500 293500 customers in 190. Countries the company is a component of The Euro stoxx 50 stock market. index In 1976, SAP GmbH was founded, and moved its headquarters the following year to Walldorf, Germany. Three years later, in 1979, SAP launched SAP R/2, expanding the capabilities of the system to other areas, such as material management and production planning.
Vistex reduced exception requests by 75%, increasing efficiency and partner satisfaction for one of the nations largest network innovators. The benefit of Vistex-one fully integrated system-one set of data for both direct and indirect sales channels Lifescience manufacturer. Vistex reduced month end processing by 70% within the first quarter of implementation for a leading global interactive entertainment software company. A leading manufacturer of consumer paper products saw a 38% reduction in claims cycle with Vistex. Over $1B Claims processed through Vistex Billbacks, noncontract and IDN sales at a leading life science manufacturer. A large soft drink company saw an 85% improvement in speed of calculations.
Hi, Vistex is a third party tool for better handling of rebates, sales commisssions, Billbacks, chargebacks etc in SAP R3 environment.
Hello, The SAP Incentive Administration application by Vistex supports a variety of incentive agreements and programs u2013 from simplest to most complex. SAP Incentive Administration integrates seamlessly with your SAP software to provide robust administration, analysis, and reporting capabilities. This powerful application enables you to efficiently manage commissions and other incentive programs.
I was wondering if anyone has had experience with implementing Vistex within a SAP environment. One of my clients is going through an implementation and I am trying to find some additional information on the product. SAP Logistics Sales and Distribution. The SAP Logistics SD group is for the discussion of specific configuration, administration, and development issues that arise when utilizing the SAP Logistics Sales and Distribution component.
Vistex is an embedded solution within SAP that uses the same master data and G/L accounts. It is able to handle complex supplier and customer agreements; that are not available with the standard SAP configuration. The complexity of rebate programs is growing, and so is the need for rebate management. Unique business requirements should be addressed by a robust solution.
SAP Logistics Sales and Distribution. The SAP Logistics SD group is for the discussion of specific configuration, administration, and development issues that arise when utilizing the SAP Logistics Sales and Distribution component. Vistex is a third party tool for better handling of rebates, sales commisssions, Billbacks, chargebacks etc in SAP R3 environment.
Hi, I recently read about SAP Compensation Management on a blog (sdmodule.com). Apparently it does the same thing as Vistex but it's a standard module and doesn't require an additional license. I don't see much documentation for it other than the enhancement package release notes. Vistex is a third party tool for better handling of rebates, sales commisssions, Billbacks, chargebacks etc in SAP R3 environment.