Thermite is a pyrotechnic composition of metal powder fuel and metal oxide. When ignited by heat, thermite undergoes an exothermic reduction-oxidation (redox) reaction. Most varieties are not explosive but can create brief bursts of high temperature in a small area. The reaction is used for thermite welding, often used to join rail tracks. Thermites have also been used in metal refining, demolition of munitions, and in incendiary weapons. Some thermite-like mixtures are used as pyrotechnic initiators in fireworks.
Method 2 of 2: Make the Thermite. 1. Obtain finely powdered iron oxide (rust), aluminum powder, and a thin strip of magnesium. The iron oxide and aluminum will react to form thermite, while the magnesium will serve as the ignition material. 1  You can find aluminum powder in a paint store, an Etch-a-Sketch, or you can buy it on the internet
A mixture of iron oxide Fe2O3 (rust) and aluminum powder. When it is ignited the aluminum powder reacts with the O3 part of the rust in a highly exothermic reaction, the resulting product is molten iron. Thermite is commonly used in welding, because the molten iron has the ability to seep into cracks in metal. It cal also be used to melt through things as shown in an episode of Brainiac and the movie The Sixth Day. I have made thermite a few times, but never in large enough batches to burn through anything significant.
Although most of the thermite powders produced today are mainly a mix of iron oxide and aluminum, the aluminothermic reaction may allow the use multiple types of metal oxides. A aluminothermic reaction basically takes place when a mixture of aluminum powder and metal oxide is being ignited. During this process, the oxidizing metal, respectively aluminum reacts with the metal oxide in order to form aluminum oxide. Thermite is basically a powder mix between aluminium and a metal oxide that, when lit, produces an aluminothermic reaction. It was first fabricated during 1893 by the German chemist Hans Goldschimdt while trying to create a method that would produce extremely pure metal, without using the carbon smelting process
Definition of THERMITE. : a mixture of aluminum powder and a metal oxide (as iron oxide) that when ignited evolves a great deal of heat and is used in welding and in incendiary bombs. ADVERTISEMENT. therm- + 1-ite. First Known Use: 1900
A thermite reaction is basically iron oxide (rust) reacting with aluminum to produce molten iron. The reaction is initiated by the heat from burning magnesium ribbon which is placed in the iron oxide/aluminum mixture, this is the fuse! This works because the thermite mixture is aluminum powder and iron oxide (rust) powder. When the mixture is heated, it starts reacting: the aluminum is more reactive than the iron, so it pinches the oxygen from the iron to make aluminum oxide and iron. A balanced equation for the reaction is:-. Fe 2 O 3 2 O 3 + 2Fe.
Thermite is a pyrotechnic composition usually consisting of metal powder and a metal oxide. It is not usually explosive, but it does create extremely high temperatures in a very small area for a short period of time. 
Thermite. [from Thermit, a trade name], mixture of powdered or granular aluminum metal and powdered iron oxide. When ignited it gives off large amounts of heat. In wartime it has been used in incendiary bombs. A method for welding welding,process for joining separate pieces of metal in a continuous metallic bond. 