Palladium is a chemical element with symbol Pd and atomic number 46. It is a rare and lustrous silvery-white metal discovered in 1803 by William Hyde Wollaston. Palladium is one of the three most popular metals used to make white gold alloys (nickel and silver can also be used). Palladium-gold is a more expensive alloy than nickel-gold, but seldom causes allergic reactions (though certain cross-allergies with nickel may occur).
Palladium is also used in electronics, dentistry, medicine, hydrogen purification, chemical applications, groundwater treatment and jewelry. Palladium plays a key role in the technology used for fuel cells, which combine hydrogen and oxygen to produce electricity, heat, and water. Palladium is one of the three most popular metals used to make white gold alloys (nickel and silver can also be used). Palladium-gold is a more expensive alloy than nickel-gold, but seldom causes allergic reactions (though certain cross-allergies with nickel may occur).
Palladium is also used in jewelry, starting in 1939 when its sister metal platinum was reserved for military use. One benefit of palladium for jewellers was that palladium was lighter than platinum so larger jewelry pieces could still be comfortable. It is tarnish resistant and resistant to intense heat. Palladium is a member of the platinum group metals (PGM), a group which also includes platinum, osmium, rhodium, ruthenium, and iridium.
Palladium Jewelry. Palladium is the newest precious metal. A platinum group metal, palladium is rare, lustrous, and naturally white. Palladium has the purity and white tone of platinum but is less dense, making it more affordable. From the same metal family as platinum, palladium is a naturally bright white metal. However, palladium is lighter and less dense than platinum, which also means that it's lighter on your wallet.
Palladium is a lustrous silvery white metal with the atomic number 46 and chemical abbreviation of Pd. It is used in electronics, jewelry, and certain other industries. Because the metal is extremely rare, palladium is considered to be a precious metal, and it can command a high price on the open market. Ad. As a member of the platinum group, which also includes metals like rhodium and iridium, palladium is considered a transition metal. It is one of the softer metals in the platinum group, but it retains other valuable properties that are shared by metals in this group.
Palladium itself has been used as a precious metal in jewelry since 1939, as an alternative to platinum for making white gold. This use resulted from the naturally white color of palladium, which required no rhodium plating. Palladium is much less dense than platinum. Palladium is one of the three most popular metals used to make white gold alloys (nickel and silver can also be used). Palladium-gold is a more expensive alloy than nickel-gold, but seldom causes allergic reactions (though certain cross-allergies with nickel may occur).
The fact is Palladium is pure, natural, less dense, hard, hypoallergenic, whiter, and most importantly, economical. Worldwide in 2005 more jewelry units were sold in Palladium than in platinum. Palladium is not a man made or fabricated metal. Its is mined in its natural state. 
Palladium: the essentials. Palladium is a steel-white metal, does not tarnish in air, and is the least dense and lowest melting of the platinum group metals. When annealed, it is soft and ductile. Cold working increases its strength and hardness. It is used in some watch springs. Palladium is found as the free metal associated with platinum and other platinum group metals in Australia, Brazil, Russia, Ethiopia, and North and South America, as well as with nickel and copper deposits (from which it is recovered commercially) in Canada and South Africa.
Over half of the supply of palladium and its congener platinum goes into catalytic converters, which convert up to 90% of harmful gases from auto exhaust (hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen dioxide) into less-harmful substances (nitrogen, carbon dioxide and water vapor). Palladium is one of the three most popular metals used to make white gold alloys (nickel and silver can also be used). Palladium-gold is a more expensive alloy than nickel-gold, but seldom causes allergic reactions (though certain cross-allergies with nickel may occur).
Palladium is a precious metal that is about 30 times as rare as gold. It is a natural white metal that has a luster similar to platinum, another precious metal. Palladium is strong, durable and will last a long time without wear. It is tarnish resistant and resistant to intense heat. Palladium is a member of the platinum group metals (PGM), a group which also includes platinum, osmium, rhodium, ruthenium, and iridium.