The Great Pyramid of Giza was built for the Fourth Dynasty Pharaoh Khufu (or Cheops), and was completed around 2560 B.C. It is part of a complex of 3 large pyramids in the Giza Necropolis located in modern Cairo, Egypt. The Great Pyramid is the largest of the three pyramids, and it is part of its own smaller complex that also contain 3 small pyramids that were built for Khufu's wives. There is no wonder why the Great Pyramid of Giza was on the list of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. It is a testament to human ingenuity and strength, and its size and near-perfect proportions must have been awe-inspiring to behold.
All three of Giza's famed pyramids and their elaborate burial complexes were built during a frenetic period of construction, from roughly 2550 to 2490 B.C. The pyramids were built by Pharaohs Khufu (tallest), Khafre (background), and Menkaure (front). Khufu's son, Pharaoh Khafre, built the second pyramid at Giza, circa 2520 B.C. His necropolis also included the Sphinx, a mysterious limestone monument with the body of a lion and a pharaoh's head. The Sphinx may stand sentinel for the pharaoh's entire tomb complex.
In about 450 B.C. the ancient historian Herodotus reported that there were underground chambers beneath the Great Pyramid at Giza. These chambers, he wrote, King Cheops [Khufu] made as burial chambers for himself ... (History, 2:124). Diodorus (c.80-20 B.C.) added more detail: And though the two kings [i.e. Another reason why Egyptologists believe that pyramids were tombs is because the ancient Egyptian record explicitly states as much. For example, the Papyrus Abbott describes the inspection of sepulchers of former kings under Ramesses IX. The pyramid of 17th Dynasty Sobekemsaf II was inspected:
The Great Pyramid of Giza (also known as the Pyramid of Khufu or the Pyramid of Cheops) is the oldest and largest of the three pyramids in the Giza Necropolis bordering what is now El Giza, Egypt. It is the oldest of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, and the only one to remain largely intact. It is believed the pyramid was built as a tomb for Fourth Dynasty Egyptian pharaoh Khufu (often Hellenicised as Cheops) and was constructed over a 20-year period. Khufu's vizier, Hemon, or Hemiunu, is believed by some to be the architect of the Great Pyramid.
View full size image. Egypt's Great Pyramids at Giza are one of the world's most amazing achievements. Built during the reign of Cheops, around 2530 B.C., the largest pyramid towers nearly 500 feet (150 meters) high and covers 13 acres (5.2 hectares). They are among the world's top tourist attractions, and the subject of both serious study and wild speculation. 
The Giza Pyramids, built to endure an eternity, have done just that. The monumental tombs are relics of Egypt's Old Kingdom era and were constructed some 4,500 years ago. Egypt's pharaohs expected to become gods in the afterlife. Khufu's son, Pharaoh Khafre, built the second pyramid at Giza, circa 2520 B.C. His necropolis also included the Sphinx, a mysterious limestone monument with the body of a lion and a pharaoh's head. The Sphinx may stand sentinel for the pharaoh's entire tomb complex.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Great Pyramid was built to serve as a tomb for the king at the time...Cheops or Khufu (in arabic), it houses his tomb as well as all of his treasures that he would take on to the afterlife. Report Abuse. In Egypt pyramids were built as tombs for Kings and Queens. The great pyramid was the tomb of Cheops, he was King of the old Kingdom, the fourth dynasty. The great pyramid is 4600 years old. There are pyramids in Mexico, but they are more modern and they are temples not tombs
The Giza pyramids In the fourth dynasty, three large stone pyramids were built at Giza. The design of these pyramids was based on the pyramids that had been built before. These are the largest and sturdiest pyramids that were ever built in ancient Egypt. The first and largest pyramid was built for the pharaoh Khufu (also known as Cheops). 