Women's Reproductive Health. Hormones are key to reproductive health in all aspects of a woman’s sexual life. They regulate menstruation, fertility, menopause, and sex drive (libido). The main hormones affecting the menstrual cycle and fertility are produced by glands in the brain and by the ovaries. A part of the brain called the hypothalamus produces GnRH (gonadotropin-releasing hormone). GnRH is a hormone that triggers the pituitary—a pea-sized gland just below the hypothalamus—to release two other hormones: follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH).
1 Ovaries: The ovaries are small, oval-shaped glands that are located on either side of the uterus. 2  The ovaries produce eggs and hormones. 3  Fallopian tubes: These are narrow tubes that are attached to the upper part of the uterus and serve as tunnels for the ova (egg cells) to travel from the ovaries to the uterus. The internal reproductive organs in the female include: 1  Vagina: The vagina is a canal that joins the cervix (the lower part of uterus) to the outside of the body.
The entire male reproductive system is dependent on hormones, which are chemicals that stimulate or regulate the activity of cells or organs. The primary hormones involved in the functioning of the male reproductive system are follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone. The organs of the male reproductive system are specialized for the following functions: 1  To produce, maintain and transport sperm (the male reproductive cells) and protective fluid (semen). 2  To discharge sperm within the female reproductive tract. 3  To produce and secrete male sex hormones.
FSH stimulates the maturation of germ cells within the testes and ovaries. In the female it also stimulates follicular development and oestradiol synthesis. In the male FSH also stimulates the secretion of inhibin which has a negative feedback directly to the anterior pituitary. FSH is a type of glycoprotein that is produced in the anterior pituitary via gonadotroph cells. FSH secretion is regulated by GnRH from the hypothalamus. The target tissue of FSH in males are the sertoli cells within the testes and in the female the granulosa cells of the ovary.
Hormones are made by endocrine glands, such as the thyroid, pancreas, and ovaries. But how do they work in our bodies? Why are they important? Read more about different hormones, the glands that produce them, and the work that they do. 
The female reproductive system makes its own hormones that help to control a woman's monthly cycle. These hormones cause ova to develop and be released in a monthly cycle. This process is called ovulation. If one of these ova is fertilised by a male sperm, this leads to pregnancy. The organs and structures of the female reproductive system give women the ability to produce a baby. They do this by producing eggs to be fertilised by sperm from a man.
A hormone (from Greek ὁρμή, impetus) is any member of a class of signaling molecules produced by glands in multicellular organisms that are transported by the circulatory system to target distant organs to regulate physiology and behaviour. Hormone synthesis may occur in specific tissues of endocrine glands or in other specialized cells. Hormone synthesis occurs in response to specific biochemical signals induced by a wide range of regulatory systems
The testes and ovaries, or gonads, are perhaps the most familiar endocrine glands. In males, testes produce sperm and secrete the male sex hormone testosterone; in females, ovaries produce eggs and the female hormone estrogen. It is these hormones that determine secondary sex characteristics like muscle mass and facial hair. They also help to orchestrate sperm production, menstruation and pregnancy. 
1 The ovaries maintain the health of the female reproductive system. 2  They secrete two main hormones—estrogen and progesterone. 3  Diseases associated with the ovaries include ovarian cysts, ovarian cancer, menstrual cycle disorders, and polycystic ovarian syndrome. Ovaries produce and release two groups of sex hormones—progesterone and estrogen. There are actually three major estrogens, known as estradiol, estrone, and estriol. These substances work together to promote the healthy development of female sex characteristics during puberty and to ensure fertility.