Jessica Fletcher (born Jessica Beatrice MacGill, known as J.B. Fletcher when writing) is a character and the protagonist portrayed by veteran Tony-winning actress Angela Lansbury on the American television series Murder, She Wrote. Fletcher is a best-selling author of mystery novels. In 2004, Fletcher was listed in Bravo 's 100 Greatest TV Characters. AOL named her one of the 100 Most Memorable Female TV Characters. The same website listed her among TV's Smartest Detectives.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Fletcher is a given name of English, Scottish, and Irish origin. The name is an occupational name for an arrowsmith or seller of arrows, derived from the Middle English, Old French flech(i)er (in turn from Old French fleche arrow). Early bearers of the name include Robert le Flecher in 1203 (in the Assize Court Rolls of Staffordshire, during the reign of King John), William Flecher’ also in 1203, and Peter le flechier in 1227. The name is often confused with Flesher, as some Fleshers are Fletchers and vice versa.
Hello, Guest Login or Register. Hello, Guest. Fletcher is a common surname with a touch of quirkiness; it definitely fits into the So Far Out It's In category--and moving further in all the time along with other occupational names from Parker to Forester. One notable historical Fletcher is Fletcher Christian, the British seaman and mutineer portrayed on the screen at various times by Errol Flynn, Clark Gable, Marlon Brando and Mel Gibson. A musical namesake is Fletcher Henderson, who was important in the development of big band jazz and swing music.
537 pages on this wiki. Grady Ambrose Fletcher, Jessica Fletcher 's nephew, is a recurring character on  Murder, She Wrote . Specifically, Grady was the son of Frank Fletcher's late brother. It was Grady who, after secretly reading Jessica's first novel The Corpse Danced at Midnight, had it published. 
In American the meaning of the name Fletcher is: Maker of arrows. English Meaning: The name Fletcher is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Fletcher is: Maker of arrows. Often used as a surname, less commonly a given name. Famous bearer: Fletcher Christian was a mutineer on the infamous ship 'Bounty'. French Meaning: The name Fletcher is a French baby name. 
Fletcher ▼ has 2 variants: Flecher and Fletch. Fletcher is a somewhat prominent first name for men (#762 out of 1220, Top 62%) and an even more prominent last name for all people (#352 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Fletcher for boys. Fletcher /fletch-er/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced FLECH-er. It is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Fletcher is arrow-maker .
Origin of the name Fletcher: Transferred use of the surname derived from the Old French flechier (arrow maker), which is from the root flech (an arrow). The name originated in the beginning of the 13th century as an occupational name for a maker or seller of arrows. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Fletcher: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Fletcher: | Edit. The entire time I was pregnant with my son, my grandfather called the unborn and unnamed baby Fletcher as a joke.