The CIR Expert Panel evaluated the scientific data and concluded that Sodium Cocoamphoacetate, Sodium Cocoamphopropionate, Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate, and Disodium Cocoamphodipropionate were safe as cosmetic ingredients in the present practices of use. In cosmetics and personal care products, these ingredients function as surfactants (foam boosters and cleansing agents), and hair conditioning agents. A foam boosting agent is used in cosmetics to increase the foaming capacity of surfactants-cleansing agents, or to stabilize foams in general.
About DISODIUM COCOAMPHODIPROPIONATE: Disodium Cocoamphodipropionate is an amphoteric organic compound. Function(s): Hair Conditioning Agent; Surfactant-Cleansing Agent; Surfactant-Foam Booster;Surfactant-Hydrotrope; FOAM BOOSTING; SKIN CONDITIONING. Risk assessment method deficiencies and data gaps-Maximum reported as used concentration is basis of safety assessment by industry safety panel (Cosmetic Ingredient Review, CIR) - implicit safe concentration limit in product.
Disodium laureth sulfosuccinate is a chemical found in hair and skin products. Quite simply, it’s a de-greasing, emulsifier, and foaming agent used in many shampoos and other cleaning products much like SLS and SLES. SLS is another common chemical found in cosmetic products such as shampoos, scalp treatments, and body washes. The biggest difference between the two chemicals is that sodium lauryl sulfate is more chemically modified and contains smaller molecules that can penetrate and irritate the skin.
Sodium Cocoamphoacetate, Sodium Cocoamphopropionate, Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate and Disodium Cocoamphodipropionate clean the skin and hair by helping water to mix with oil and dirt so that these substances can be rinsed away. In cosmetics and personal care products, these ingredients function as surfactants (foam boosters and cleansing agents), and hair conditioning agents. A foam boosting agent is used in cosmetics to increase the foaming capacity of surfactants-cleansing agents, or to stabilize foams in general.
In manufacturing, EDTA is used in calcium and sodium compounds to improve stability in pharmaceutical products, detergents, liquid soaps, shampoos, agricultural chemical sprays, oil emulsion devices, contact lens cleaners and cosmetics. It is also used in certain blood collection tubes used by medical laboratories. Eye drops containing EDTA are used to treat calcium deposits in the eye. In foods, EDTA bound to iron is used to “fortify” grain-based products such as breakfast cereals and cereal bars. EDTA is also used in calcium and sodium compounds to preserve food; and to promote the color, texture, and flavor of food.
1 The calcium disodium form of EDTA is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for these uses. 2  Treatment with calcium disodium EDTA improves symptoms of lead poisoning such as abdominal pain, fatigue, constipation, and loss of appetite. Eye drops containing EDTA are used to treat calcium deposits in the eye. In foods, EDTA bound to iron is used to “fortify” grain-based products such as breakfast cereals and cereal bars. EDTA is also used in calcium and sodium compounds to preserve food; and to promote the color, texture, and flavor of food.
How it Compares to Sodium Lauryl Sulfate. It’s often incorrectly compared to Sodium Lauryl Sulfate (SLS) as they’re both used in cosmetic products as a foaming agent and emulsifier. SLS is another common chemical found in cosmetic products such as shampoos, scalp treatments, and body washes. The biggest difference between the two chemicals is that sodium lauryl sulfate is more chemically modified and contains smaller molecules that can penetrate and irritate the skin.
EDTA is a chemical that binds and holds on to (chelates) minerals and metals such as chromium, iron, lead, mercury, copper, aluminum, nickel, zinc, calcium, cobalt, manganese, and magnesium. When they are bound, they can't have any effects on the body and they are removed from the body. Eye drops containing EDTA are used to treat calcium deposits in the eye. In foods, EDTA bound to iron is used to “fortify” grain-based products such as breakfast cereals and cereal bars. EDTA is also used in calcium and sodium compounds to preserve food; and to promote the color, texture, and flavor of food.
Imidazolium compounds, 1-[2-(2-carboxyethoxy)ethyl]-1(or 3)-(2-carboxyethyl)-4,5-dihydro-2-norcoco alkyl, hydroxides, disodium salts. INCI function. Surfactant, Cleansing, Hair conditioning, Skin conditioning. The INCI function describes solely the purpose of a cosmetic ingredient. 