Cooked spinach is one of the best natural food sources of lutein and zeaxanthin. In addition to being found in many green leafy plants and colorful fruits and vegetables, lutein and zeaxanthin are found in high concentrations in the macula of the human eye, giving the macula its yellowish color. The best natural food sources of lutein and zeaxanthin are green leafy vegetables and other green or yellow vegetables. Among these, cooked kale and cooked spinach top the list, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Cooked spinach contains both lutein and zeaxanthin, which may prevent age-related macular degeneration. Lutein and zeaxanthin, found in colorful fruits and vegetables, belong to the group of carotenoids classified as xanthophylls. Other Food Sources. Among fruits and fruit juices, canned tangerine juice and canned mandarin oranges provide about 0.4 milligrams of lutein and zeaxanthin, which are present in small amounts in most other fruits such as raspberries, papayas, oranges, peaches, cherries and blueberries.
LUTEIN Overview Information. Lutein is called a carotenoid vitamin. It is related to beta-carotene and vitamin A. Foods rich in lutein include broccoli, spinach, kale, corn, orange pepper, kiwi fruit, grapes, orange juice, zucchini, and squash. Lutein is absorbed best when it is taken with a high-fat meal. 
Foods high in lutein include lots of different colorful vegetables and fruits but because it is fat soluble be sure to include some healthy fats, like olive oil when eating. The only way to take advantage of the antioxidant benefits of lutein is by eating foods that are rich in carotenoids or through supplementation. 
Foods Containing Lutein and Zeaxanthin. The best natural food sources of lutein and zeaxanthin are green leafy vegetables and other green or yellow vegetables. Among these, cooked kale and cooked spinach top the list, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Non-vegetarian sources of lutein and zeaxanthin include egg yolks
Here are 12 foods rich in lutein and zeaxanthin. Kale. Kale contains 23,720 mcg of lutein and zeaxanthin per cup. Spinach. Spinach contains 20,350 mcg per cup. Swiss Chard. Swiss chard contains19,276 mcg per cup. Collard Greens. Collard greens contain 14,619 mcg per cup. Lutein and zeaxanthin are antioxidants which have shown promise in promoting eye health. Due to the need for more research, there is not an RDA for lutein. However, current science suggests that you can get the eye protecting health benefits of lutein by consuming 6,000 – 10,000 mcg per day.
Lutein & Zeaxanthin. Lutein (LOO-teen) and zeaxanthin are important nutrients found in green leafy vegetables as well as other foods such as eggs. Many studies have shown that lutein and zeaxanthin reduce the risk of chronic eye diseases, including age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and cataracts. AMD and cataract incidence are growing. 
Lutein and zeaxanthin, two nutrients found in eggs, spinach, and other leafy green vegetables may protect against age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the most common cause of blindness among the elderly. 
All varieties of cooked summer and winter squash, peas, yellow corn, beet greens, pumpkin, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, romaine and iceberg lettuce, asparagus and carrots are good food sources of lutein and zeaxanthin and contain between 1 to 4 milligrams of lutein and zeaxanthin per serving. Other Food Sources. Among fruits and fruit juices, canned tangerine juice and canned mandarin oranges provide about 0.4 milligrams of lutein and zeaxanthin, which are present in small amounts in most other fruits such as raspberries, papayas, oranges, peaches, cherries and blueberries.
Food Sources. Lutein and zeaxanthin are found together in many food sources. Dark green leafy vegetables are the primary source of lutein and zeaxanthin, but they are also present in lesser amounts in other colorful fruits and vegetables, such as broccoli, orange peppers, corn, peas, persimmons and tangerines. 