To come and replace a smart meter with an analog one will cost you even more, more than $300, plus $18 a month. If you’re an AEP customer in North Texas, it could cost you $356 to replace your smart meter with an old analog one, plus a recurring $35 monthly fee.
Sold as an electricity-, money-, and earth-saving device, smart meters cost hundreds of billions of dollars in government subsidies and utility companies money, costs that are passed on to hapless consumers in the form of higher energy prices.
The cheapest smart meter cost $135 per unit, plus the installation cost of at least $30 per hour, a car, electrical training, equipment training and other materials, pension, and healthcare benefits.
On June 29, 2015 / Costs. ‘Significant issues already exist’ with spybox tech, too Smart meters will cost as much as the Trident nuclear deterrent to implement, with the full cost of the scheme rising to £19bn, according to a government report.
2 INTRODUCTION Across the nation, electric utilities are deploying smart meters (technically termed advanced metering infrastructure or AMI) to their residential customers as the basic building block of the Smart Grid. In a few areas of the country, such as California and Texas, smart meters are almost fully deployed.
Smart meters: What do we know so far? Several approaches for cost recovery Smart meters are a building block and an enabling technology for: –Smart consumers, smart appliances, smart rates–Distributed generation, –Plug in hybrid electric vehicles,–The smart grid.
American Electric Power Ohio is asking state regulators to impose a $31.80-a-month charge on those who don’t want one of the meters. Duke Energy, which serves about 690,000 customers in southwestern Ohio, is asking for even more: a one-time charge of as much as $1,073.10 and a monthly fee of $40.63. State regulation gives utilities the right to impose a fee for customers who refuse the new meters.
Duke also suggested to the regulators that the one-time fee of $1,073.70 could be deferred and that a smaller one-time cost of $126.70 be imposed. So far, Thelen said fewer than 100 customers have refused to take a smart meter out of about 1 million Duke natural-gas and electric customers who have gotten them so far.