Making the world better, one answer at a time. Lights are always required to be installed on a boat trailer. This is so no one runs into the back of the trailer, especially at night. The size required is determined by the 'hitch' on the trailer or device being towed. 1-7/8 and 2 inch balls are common sizes.     You may also need a T-One adaptor to hook up the trailer lighting.
The legal requirements for trailer lights can be grouped into two classes: trailers less than 80 wide, and those that are more than 80 wide. Trailers less than 80 wide are required to have tail lights, stop lights, turn signals, side marker lights and side and rear reflectors on each side. At the rear of the trailer three red identification lights are required and are usually sold as a single bar with the lights mounted at the required spacing (similar to the tops of tractor-trailer rigs and the rear of their trailers).
Lights are always required to be installed on a boat trailer. This  is so no one runs into the back of the trailer, especially at  night. Edit. Share to: Gregg Anderton. 1,491,144 Contributions. Community Manager who loves to wrench on cars, grow plants in the garden, remodel my home, and observe nature. You will also need the 'ball' itself. The size required is determined by the 'hitch' on the trailer or device being towed. 1-7/8 and 2 inch balls are common sizes.     You may also need a T-One adaptor to hook up the trailer lighting. Anyone competent at Napa, AutoZone, CarQuest, etc. should be able to help you out if you need a personalized touch
Side Light Requirements. Side lights, used to make other drivers aware of the trailer's presence and denote its length, must be placed on the same location on both sides of the vehicle. Rear side lights must be red and placed as far back on the trailer as possible, between 15 and 60 inches high. Yellow front side lights must be placed as close to the front of the trailer as possible and be at least 15 inches high.
Special light and wiring systems need to be installed on your tow vehicle before you can tow any trailer. The trailer lighting system must not be directly spliced into your tow vehicle lighting system. Hence the need for wiring your vehicle. Most trailers are wired to use a single red light for both the brake and turn signals (1 bulb per side). This is known as a 4-wire system. Most import vehicles and newer domestic vehicles have both a red brake signal and a separate amber turn signal (2 bulbs
All trailer lights must be permanently attached to the trailer. Lights on the side of the trailer must be parallel to the trailer's center line, while those on the front and back must be perpendicular to the center line, excluding lights that are installed at a photometrically certified angle. Rear side lights must be red and placed as far back on the trailer as possible, between 15 and 60 inches high. Yellow front side lights must be placed as close to the front of the trailer as possible and be at least 15
Lights, and safety chains. Depending on the size of the trailer, additional markers / side lights / etc. may be required. Most states require licensing, it may be in the f … orm of a license plate, or a permanent registration. Your local DMV should have all the guidelines for you. The size required is determined by the 'hitch' on the trailer or device being towed. 1-7/8 and 2 inch balls are common sizes.     You may also need a T-One adaptor to hook up the trailer lighting.
Trailers that are more than 80 inches wide must be equipped with additional lighting on the front and rear to indicate the trailer's width. Two red rear clearance lights must be placed at the trailer's widest point, as far apart and as high as possible. Rear side lights must be red and placed as far back on the trailer as possible, between 15 and 60 inches high. Yellow front side lights must be placed as close to the front of the trailer as possible and be at least 15
Lights, and safety chains. Depending on the size of the trailer, additional markers / side lights / etc. may be required. Most states require licensing, it may be in the f … orm of a license plate, or a permanent registration. Your local DMV should have all the guidelines for you. You will also need the 'ball' itself. The size required is determined by the 'hitch' on the trailer or device being towed. 1-7/8 and 2 inch balls are common sizes.     You may also need a T-One adaptor to hook up the trailer lighting. Anyone competent at Napa, AutoZone, CarQuest, etc. should be able to help you out if you need a personalized touch