Edit. Normal blood glucose values for non-diabetic cats and dogs range from 80-150 as measured on a vet's glucometer. Home glucometers used on animals tend to read a bit lower in the below-100 ranges, (reasons not yet understood), and so will frequently show lower numbers (see chart above) that are not cause for alarm. Approximate maximum safe value for the highest blood sugar of the day, in cats, to avoid neuropathy and complications. Some cats can go on long-term at this level or higher, but there will be side effects eventually. Check for ketones.
Answer: Now, in a normal individual we measure blood sugar under different circumstances. What we call fasting blood sugar or blood glucose levels is usually done six to eight hours after the last meal. So it's most commonly done before breakfast in the morning; and the normal range there is 70 to 100 milligrams per deciliter. Now when you eat a meal, blood sugar generally rises and in a normal individual it usually does not get above a 135 to 140 milligrams per deciliter.
G lucose levels have a normal range in healthy felines. If the cat has high glucose, also known as hyperglycemia, the pet may easily develop diabetes. A low glucose level, or hypoglycemia, can be indicative of blood loss or a low body temperature, but may also be a result of an insulin overdose in diabetic cats. Low Glucose Causes and Symptoms. Hypoglycemia is when the cat has the glucose levels below 80 mg per dL. The levels of glucose in the cat's blood may drop due to blood loss, malnutrition or low body temperature, which will lead to the consumption of the glucose in the blood.
Normal Glucose Levels in Cats. The glucose (sugar) in the blood can be measured by taking a blood sample from the cat. The normal glucose levels in cats are between 80 and 120 mg/dL or 4.4 to 6.6 mmol/L; however, these levels may vary according to the age and the breed of the cat. Low Glucose Causes and Symptoms. Hypoglycemia is when the cat has the glucose levels below 80 mg per dL. The levels of glucose in the cat's blood may drop due to blood loss, malnutrition or low body temperature, which will lead to the consumption of the glucose in the blood.
A normal fasting blood glucose target range for an individual without diabetes is 70-100 mg/dL (3.9-5.6 mmol/L). The American Diabetes Association recommends a fasting plasma glucose level of 70–130 mg/dL (3.9-7.2 mmol/L) and after meals less than 180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L). A person with prediabetes has a fasting blood glucose level between 100 and 125 mg/dl. If the blood glucose level rises to 126 mg/dl or above, a person has diabetes.&quot; and &quot;•An A1C 5.6% or below is normal. In prediabetes, A1C levels range between 5.7%-6.4%
Hyperglycemia in Cats. The term hyperglycemia refers to higher than normal levels of glucose in the blood. A simple carbohydrate sugar that circulates in the blood, glucose is a major source of energy for the body, of which normal levels range between 75-120mg.
The normal blood glucose level (tested while fasting) for non-diabetics, should be between 3.9 and 5.5 mmol/L (70 to 100 mg/dL). The mean normal blood glucose level in humans is about 5.5 mmol/L (100 mg/dL); however, this level fluctuates throughout the day. Glucose levels are usually lowest in the morning, before the first meal of the day (termed the fasting level), and rise after meals for an hour or two by a few millimolar. Blood sugar levels outside the normal range may be an indicator of a medical condition.
A stable diabetic cat exhibits a blood glucose range of around 120 to 300 mg/dL for most of a 24-hour period. The graph below demonstrates an ideal blood glucose curve for a cat receiving Vetsulin twice daily. To achieve this goal, keep blood glucose concentrations below the renal threshold and avoid hypoglycemia. Thus, the goal is to maintain blood glucose concentrations roughly between 120 to 300 mg/dL in cats for the majority of the day.