The Soviet Union stunned the world on Nov. 3, 1957, with the launch of Sputnik 2. On board the small satellite was a little dog, Laika, the first animal to orbit Earth. However, Laika was not the first animal in space. The United States and the U.S.S.R. had been putting animals atop rockets since 1947. Laika, a mixed-breed dog, was the first living being in orbit. The dogs reached space on July 22, 1951, but did not orbit. They were the first mammals successfully recovered from spaceflight. After Laika, the Soviet Union sent two more dogs, Belka and Strelka, into space on Aug. 19, 1960. The animals were the first to actually orbit and return alive.
On November 3, 1957, Laika the dog rode Sputnik 2 into outer space, the first living creature to reach Earth orbit-but unlike all the animals and humans who followed, hers was a one-way ticket only. 
We did not learn enough from this mission to justify the death of the dog. For other uses, see Laika (disambiguation) . Laika (Russian: лайка; c. 1954 – November 3, 1957) was a Soviet space dog who became one of the first animals in space, and the first animal to orbit the Earth. Three dogs were trained for the Sputnik 2 flight: Albina, Mushka, and Laika. Soviet space-life scientists Vladimir Yazdovsky and Oleg Gazenko trained the dogs. To adapt the dogs to the confines of the tiny cabin of Sputnik 2, they were kept in progressively smaller cages for periods of up to 20 days.
Share. The first Earthling in space blasted off on November 3, 1957. Sputnik 2, the world's second artificial satellite, was launched by the Soviet Union from the Baikonur Cosmodrome. There was a passenger on board and her name was Laika (Russian for Barker). By Nick Greene. Laika was a mutt, part Siberian Husky, who was rounded up off the streets of Moskow and trained for space travel.
Sputnik 2 launched on November 3, 1957 and carried a mongrel dog named Laika (Barker in Russian) on a life-support system. Laika also was known as Kudryavka (Little Curly in Russian). The American press nicknamed the dog Muttnik. The Dark Side says. Laika – which is Russian for barker. This is also the name of a Russian breed of hunting dog, but is often used as a dog's name as well as it was in this case – Laika was a stray mongrel found on the streets of Moscow and she may have been partly the Laika breed or something similar. Reply.
During the 1950s and 1960s the USSR used dogs for sub-orbital and orbital space flights to determine whether human spaceflight was feasible. In this period, the Soviet Union launched missions with passenger slots for at least 57 dogs. The number of dogs in space is smaller, as some dogs flew more than once.
1957: Russians launch dog into space The Soviet Union has launched the first ever living creature into the cosmos. The dog, described as a female Russian breed, was projected into space this morning from Baikonur Cosmodrome aboard the artificial space satellite Sputnik II. Sputnik I, launched on 4 October, is still circling the globe.
Report Abuse. Dude, I am sure the poor dog was LAIKA. She died afterwards. Laika (from Russian: лайка, a breed of dog, literally: Barker) was a Russian space dog who became the first living creature from Earth to enter orbit. She was found as a stray wandering the streets of Moscow. Originally named Kudryavka, she was renamed Laika after her breed type. 
Comments. The Dark Side says. Laika – which is Russian for barker. This is also the name of a Russian breed of hunting dog, but is often used as a dog's name as well as it was in this case – Laika was a stray mongrel found on the streets of Moscow and she may have been partly the Laika breed or something similar. Reply.
On April 11, 2008, Russian officials unveiled a monument to Laika. A small monument in her honour was built near the military research facility in Moscow that prepared Laika's flight to space. It features a dog standing on top of a rocket. She also appears on the Monument to the Conquerors of Space in Moscow. Three dogs were trained for the Sputnik 2 flight: Albina, Mushka, and Laika. Soviet space-life scientists Vladimir Yazdovsky and Oleg Gazenko trained the dogs. To adapt the dogs to the confines of the tiny cabin of Sputnik 2, they were kept in progressively smaller cages for periods of up to 20 days.