Ad. The other type of infarct is often called a white infarction due to the lack of blood in the tissue. These anemic infarcts usually occur in the spleen, kidneys, or other similarly solid organs. They are often caused by the blockage, or vasoconstriction, of an artery that provides blood flow to the organ
(June 2011). Infarction is tissue death (necrosis) caused by a local lack of oxygen, due to an obstruction of the tissue's blood supply. The resulting lesion is referred to as an infarct (from the Latin infarctus, stuffed into). Myocardial infarction is the partial death of heart tissue commonly known as heart attack. 1 Brain: Cerebral infarction is the ischemic kind of stroke due to a disturbance in the blood vessels supplying blood to the brain. 2  It can be atherothrombotic or embolic. 3  Stroke caused by cerebral infarction should be distinguished from two other kinds of stroke: cerebral hemorrhage and subarachnoid hemorrhage.
1. infarct. 2. formation of an infarct. cardiac infarction myocardial infarction. cerebral infarction an ischemic condition of the brain, causing a persistent focal neurologic deficit in the area affected. myocardial infarction see myocardial infarction. The loss of living heart muscle as a result of coronary artery occlusion. MI or its related syndromes (acute coronary syndrome or unstable angina) usually occurs when an atheromatous plaque in a coronary artery ruptures, and the resulting clot obstructs the injured blood vessel. 2. an infarct. cardiac infarction. see myocardial infarction (below) and also myocardial infarction. cerebral infarction. an ischemic condition of the brain, causing a persistent focal neurological
Cerebral Infarction described here together with ischaemia. Infarction and ischaemia of the brain are closely associated with conditions that lead to focal necrosis of the nervous tissue in the ischaemic area, usually corresponding to the distribution of an arterial vessel.
Myocardial infarction (MI) or acute myocardial infarction (AMI), commonly known as a heart attack, occurs when blood flow stops to a part of the heart causing damage to the heart muscle. The most common symptom is chest pain or discomfort which may travel into the shoulder, arm, back, neck, or jaw. 
1. infarction-localized necrosis resulting from obstruction of the blood supply. infarct. MI, myocardial infarct, myocardial infarction-destruction of heart tissue resulting from obstruction of the blood supply to the heart muscle. pathology-any deviation from a healthy or normal condition. Translations. 
A myocardial infarction (MI), commonly known as a heart attack, occurs when a portion of the heart is deprived of oxygen due to blockage of a coronary artery. Coronary arteries supply the heart muscle (myocardium) with oxygenated blood. Without oxygen, muscle cells served by the blocked artery begin to die (infarct). 