Diane Warren and Albert Hammond wrote this song, in which the singer pleads with his lover not to walk out on him. It was originally a B-side for Tina Turner's Typical Male single. Diane Warren explained in 1000 UK #1 Hits by Jon Kutner and Spencer Leigh, I wrote 'Don't Turn Around' as a Rock ballad.
Answer. Hello Michelle, The song was called Turn Around. It was a hit in 1964 for Dick & Dee Dee, and was also recorded by Harry Belafonte (who co-wrote it), Perry Como, The Kingston Trio, The Brothers Four, Charlie Louvin, and Rosemary Clooney. I must confess that, as a father of four and a grandfather of six, this song always brings a little tear to my eye. TURN AROUND.
Turn Around  is a song by British singer Conor Maynard from his debut studio album, Contrast. The song features vocals from American singer Ne-Yo. It was released as the album's third single as a digital download on 11 October 2012. The song was produced by Stargate and Benny Blanco, who also co-wrote it with Ne-Yo. Music video [edit]. A music video to accompany the release of Turn Around was first released onto YouTube on 9 September 2012 at a total length of four minutes and three seconds. It was filmed in Los Angeles, California, and was directed by Colin Tilley
\nLook at someone (look at someone) who really loves you, \nYeah, really loves you. Turn around, look at me. There is someone walking behind you, \nTurn around, look at me. \nThere is someone watching your footsteps, \nTurn around, look at me. \nThere is someone who really needs you, \nHere's my heart in my hand. 
Turn around But every now and then I know you'll always be the only boy who wanted me the way that I am. Turn around Every now and then I know there's no one in the universe as magical and wondrous as you. Turn around Every now and then I know there's nothing any better, there's nothing that I just wouldn't do. Turn around Every now and then I get a little bit nervous that the best of all the years have gone by Turn around Every now and then I get a little bit terrified and then I see the look in your eyes.
Malvina Reynolds: Song Lyrics and Poems lyrics lyrics lyrics lyrics words words words song song song Turn Around Notes: by Harry Belafonte, Malvina Reynolds and Alan Greene. Published by Clara Music Publishing Corporation (ASCAP). Administered by Next Decade Entertainment, Inc. All rights reserved. 
For the album by The Vogues, see Turn Around, Look at Me (album) .  Turn Around, Look at Me  is a song written by Jerry Capehart. In 1961, Glen Campbell released his version as a single. This was his first song to chart in the United States, hitting #62 on the Billboard Hot 100. This version included session drummer Earl Palmer on drums. It is also their fifth single, and was credited to Barry Gibb and the Bee Gees. It was also included on the group's 1967 mop-up compilation Turn Around, Look at Us and the 1998 anthology of their Australian recordings Brilliant from Birth.