If you look at the top 10 viral videos every week, which Ad Age lists every Thursday, you find that few are less than 30 seconds and the majority are between one minute and 5 minutes pretty consistently every week. We presented a video to some clients recently and one of them made an interesting comment. He was an analytics guy and he said, “I like the video, but it’s too long. All our data shows that people stop watching videos after 30 seconds.”.
Best Answer: I think you have the wrong definition of viral. Just because a video has a lot of views doesn't mean it's viral. Viral means that the video is posted everywhere to advertise/talk about it, whether it encourages you to or not. Obviously more views comes from this, but it's possible to just have a video in one location with a lot of views and have it not be considered viral. Source(s): Derek · 5 years ago. VIral videos are forwarded, shared and passed along to other people by the actual viewers. Usually after 5-10,000 views a video starts to become viral on youtube. It really depends on the TYPE of video also. A MUSIC video requires a lot more views to go viral as compared to say How To Make an Electromagnet
Controversy is good. Viral videos have a short shelf life. You have 15 minutes of fame, and your job is to open as many doors as possible in those 15 minutes. Create as many opportunities as you can. Ironically, the week I released the video, I barely danced at all. 7. Make your video shorter. The first thing people do when they play a video is check to see how long it is. It helps them decide whether to watch it. 10 minutes: forget it. 2 minutes: I’ll give it a shot. 30 seconds: Heck, might as well.
A viral video is a video that becomes popular through a viral process of Internet sharing, typically through video sharing websites, social media and email. CMU Viral Videos is a public data set for viral video study, in which the videos are carefully selected by experts on viral videos including editors from YouTube, Time Magazine and Ray William Johnson.
Reel SEO adds that length doesn’t matter. Interesting content does. “There isn’t any direct correlation between length-of-video and viral success…Length is largely unimportant so long as the content is engaging.”. 30 seconds, in fact, seems to be the minimum length a video should be, not the maximum. We presented a video to some clients recently and one of them made an interesting comment. He was an analytics guy and he said, “I like the video, but it’s too long. All our data shows that people stop watching videos after 30 seconds.”.
More recently, the Kony 2012 video by Invisible Children, Inc. became the most viral video in history with over 34,000,000 views on the first day of its upload on 5 March 2012 and as of late 2013 has over 100,000,000 views. Another recent example is Gangnam Style by PSY. CMU Viral Videos is a public data set for viral video study, in which the videos are carefully selected by experts on viral videos including editors from YouTube, Time Magazine and Ray William Johnson.
7. Make your video shorter. The first thing people do when they play a video is check to see how long it is. It helps them decide whether to watch it. 10 minutes: forget it. 2 minutes: I’ll give it a shot. 30 seconds: Heck, might as well.
Viral videos have a short shelf life. You have 15 minutes of fame, and your job is to open as many doors as possible in those 15 minutes. Create as many opportunities as you can. Ironically, the week I released the video, I barely danced at all. I didn’t go out and celebrate. The first thing people do when they play a video is check to see how long it is. It helps them decide whether to watch it. 10 minutes: forget it. 2 minutes: I’ll give it a shot. 30 seconds: Heck, might as well.