1 Retrieved October 15 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Employees-Oldage-Benefits-Institution-(Pakistan)-(EOBI).html. The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved.
1 MLA style: EOBI.. 2  Acronym Finder. 2015. 3  AcronymFinder.com 15 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Employees-Oldage-Benefits-Institution-(Pakistan)-(EOBI).html. 4  Chicago style: Acronym Finder. The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved.
THIS refers to S. M. Asadullah Faiz’s letter ‘EOBI pension amount too small’ (April 12). I agree with his concern on the meagre pension being paid to employees after attaining the age of 60. Yet they are made to stand in long queues in banks and other utility service centres despite their ailments and handicaps. I request the government to increase the amount under EOBI head by at least 100 per cent in the coming budget in order to bring it to a respectable level.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. 
1 AcronymFinder.com 15 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Employees-Oldage-Benefits-Institution-(Pakistan)-(EOBI).html. 2  Chicago style: Acronym Finder. The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved.
He said Employees Oldage Benefits Institution would be asked to increase pension of its pensioners. This was stated by the spokesperson of the Employees Oldage Benefits Institutions (EOBI). This was stated by the Chairman of the Employees Oldage Benefits Institution (EOBI), Zafar Iqbal Gondal. The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved.
SC seeks reply on non payment of pension to its employees by EOBI, ... by The Frontier Star (Northwest Frontier Province, Pakistan). 
No increase in EOBI Pension is a shame for present government. Federal employees after protest got increase in pension. But we are being ignored. This is the BloodSucking injustice to the Private Sector Employees who had/are already being paid on low amount. It is really disappointing that the governing agency of EOBI and management of EOBI has not yet taken any action to increase in Pension Benefits in the year 2013-14. Government in it part as controlling and ministering has also not taken any action as yet.
ISLAMABAD: For the first time in almost three years, pensioners of Employees Old-Age Benefits Institution (EOBI) will taste an increase in their retirement compensations, as the federal government has announced that their minimum pension would now be Rs5, 250 per month, which is an increase of around 46%. At present, the employer contributes 5% of the minimum wage of Rs8,000 or Rs400 while the employee’s contribution is 1% of minimum wage or Rs80 per month. However, according to a study, the EOBI funds will deplete by 2027, if pensions are increased without raising employer and the employee’s contribution.