All the descendants of a node have a common prefix of the string associated with that node, and the root is associated with the empty string. If you need to efficiently find prefixes of strings, use a Trie, a data structure designed precisely for that purpose: A trie, or prefix tree, is an ordered tree data structure that is used to store an associative array where the keys are usually strings. 
Unlike a binary search tree, no node in the tree stores the key associated with that node; instead, its position in the tree defines the key with which it is associated. All the descendants of a node have a common prefix of the string associated with that node, and the root is associated with the empty string. trie can also be used to replace a hash table, over which it has the following advantages: 1  Looking up data in a trie is faster in the worst case, O(m) time (where m is the length of a search string), compared to an imperfect hash table. 2  An imperfect hash table can have key collisions.
Coding up a Trie (Prefix Tree). The tree data structure is one of the most important data storage mechanism in programming. It's a natural way to represent essential utilities on a computer like the directory structure in a file system. A Trie, also called a Prefix Tree, is a tree structure that stores words with a common prefix under the same sequence of edges in the tree eliminating the need for storing the same prefix each time for each word. From Wikipedia:A trie, or prefix tree, is an ordered tree data structure that is used to store an associative array where the keys are usually strings. Unlike a binary search tree, no node in the tree stores the key associated with that node; instead, its position in the tree shows what key it is associated with.
In computer science, a trie, also called digital tree and sometimes radix tree or prefix tree (as they can be searched by prefixes), is an ordered tree data structure that is used to store a dynamic set or associative array where the keys are usually strings. A trie can also be used to replace a hash table, over which it has the following advantages: 1  Looking up data in a trie is faster in the worst case, O(m) time (where m is the length of a search string), compared to an imperfect hash table. 2  An imperfect hash table can have key collisions.
Each complete English word has an arbitrary integer value associated with it. A trie can be seen as a tree-shaped deterministic finite automaton. Each finite language is generated by a trie automaton, and each trie can be compressed into a deterministic acyclic finite state automaton. trie can also be used to replace a hash table, over which it has the following advantages: 1  Looking up data in a trie is faster in the worst case, O(m) time (where m is the length of a search string), compared to an imperfect hash table. 2  An imperfect hash table can have key collisions.
A trie, or prefix tree, is an ordered tree data structure that is used to store an associative array where the keys are usually strings. A Trie, also called a Prefix Tree, is a tree structure that stores words with a common prefix under the same sequence of edges in the tree eliminating the need for storing the same prefix each time for each word. From Wikipedia:A trie, or prefix tree, is an ordered tree data structure that is used to store an associative array where the keys are usually strings. Unlike a binary search tree, no node in the tree stores the key associated with that node; instead, its position in the tree shows what key it is associated with.
Prefix tree. The trie, or prefix tree, is a data structure for storing strings or other sequences in a way that allows for a fast look-up. In its simplest form it can be used as a list of keywords or a dictionary. By associating each string with an object it can be used as an alternative to a hashmap. The name 'trie' comes from the word 'retrieval'. The basic idea behind a trie is that each successive letter is stored as a separate node.
If txt=t1t2...ti...tn is a string, then Ti=titi+1...tn is the suffix of txt that starts at position i, e.g. The suffix tree for ` txt ' is a Trie-like or PATRICIA-like data structure that represents the suffixes of txt. A given suffix tree can be used to search for a substring, pat[1..m] in O(m) time. There are n(n+1)/2 substrings in txt[1..n] so it is rather surprising that a suffix tree can be built in O(n) time. Adding just one character to txt increases the number of substrings by n+1, but they are not independent. 1 If `x' is a substring of txt then ` x ' represents the state (i.e., location) in the suffix-tree found by tracing out the characters of x from the root. 2  Note that x might be part-way along an edge of the tree. 3  A vertex (node) of the suffix-tree is called an explicit state.