1 Sodium azide is a rapidly acting, potentially deadly chemical that exists as an odorless white solid. 2  When it is mixed with water or an acid, sodium azide changes rapidly to a toxic gas with a pungent (sharp) odor. 1 Breathing the gas that is formed from sodium azide causes the most harm, but ingesting (swallowing) sodium azide can be toxic as well. 2  The gas formed from sodium azide is most dangerous in enclosed places where the gas will be trapped. 3  The toxic gas quickly disperses in open spaces, making it less harmful outdoors.
Sodium azide, also known as sodium trinitride, is a chemical compound. It contains sodium and azide ions. It reacts with acids to produce hydrazoic acid. It can be destroyed by reacting it with nitrous acid. This reaction produces nitric oxide, nitrogen, and sodium hydroxide.
Azide is the anion with the formula N 3 − . It is the conjugate base of hydrazoic acid (HN 3). N 3 − is a linear anion that is isoelectronic with CO2 and N2O. Per valence bond theory, azide can be described by several resonance structures, an important one being N − =N + =N − . Many inorganic azides can be prepared directly or indirectly from sodium azide. For example, lead azide, used in detonators, may be prepared from the metathesis reaction between lead nitrate and sodium azide. An alternative route is direct reaction of the metal with silver azide dissolved in liquid ammonia.
1 Sodium azide is used as a chemical preservative in hospitals and laboratories. 2  Accidents have occurred in these settings. 3  In one case, sodium azide was poured into a drain, where it exploded and the toxic gas was inhaled (breathed in). 4  Sodium azide is used in agriculture (farming) for pest control. 1 Breathing the gas that is formed from sodium azide causes the most harm, but ingesting (swallowing) sodium azide can be toxic as well. 2  The gas formed from sodium azide is most dangerous in enclosed places where the gas will be trapped. 3  The toxic gas quickly disperses in open spaces, making it less harmful outdoors.
1 When it is mixed with water or an acid, sodium azide changes rapidly to a toxic gas with a pungent (sharp) odor. 2  It also changes into a toxic gas (hydrazoic acid) when it comes in contact with solid metals (for example, when it is poured into a drain pipe containing lead or copper). 1 Breathing the gas that is formed from sodium azide causes the most harm, but ingesting (swallowing) sodium azide can be toxic as well. 2  The gas formed from sodium azide is most dangerous in enclosed places where the gas will be trapped. 3  The toxic gas quickly disperses in open spaces, making it less harmful outdoors.
Sodium azide is the inorganic compound with the formula NaN 3. This colorless salt is the gas-forming component in many car airbag systems. It is used for the preparation of other azide compounds. The azide anion is very similar in each form, being centrosymmetric with N–N distances of 1.18 A. å The na+ ion has octahedral. Geometry each azide is linked to Six na+, centers with Three-Na n bonds to each terminal nitrogen. center
Sodium azide is made industrially by the reaction of nitrous oxide, N 2 O with sodium amide in liquid ammonia as solvent: Many inorganic azides can be prepared directly or indirectly from sodium azide. For example, lead azide, used in detonators, may be prepared from the metathesis reaction between lead nitrate and sodium azide. An alternative route is direct reaction of the metal with silver azide dissolved in liquid ammonia.
Sodium azide is a crystals; soluble in water and liquid ammonia; decomposes at 300C. Sodium azide rapidly explode and release nitrogen gas by impact, used as a propellant of automotive safety bag (inflating). Sodium Azide is used in the preparation of hydrazoic acid ((HN 3), lead azide, explosives. Sodium azide is a good nitrogen liberating agent. It is used in organic synthesis including pharmaceuticals (such as Alfentanil; Azosemid; Broperamol;). It is used as a soil sterilizing agent, fungicide, and herbicide. http://www.ehs.neu.edu/ Sodium Azide, NaN3, mol wt 65.02, CAS Number 26628-22-8, is a colorless, odorless, crystalline solid (salt-like) or solution. It is soluble in water or liquid ammonia, slightly soluble in alcohols, and insoluble in ether.
Sodium azide is an ionic solid. Two crystalline forms are known, rhombohedral and hexagonal. Both adopt layered structures. The azide anion is very similar in each form, being centrosymmetric with N–N distances of 1.18 A. å The na+ ion has octahedral. Geometry each azide is linked to Six na+, centers with Three-Na n bonds to each terminal nitrogen. center
1 DESCRIPTION: Sodium azide exists as an odorless white solid. 2  When mixed with water or an acid it changes rapidly to a toxic gas with a sharp odor as well as releasing hydrazoic acid (HN3). 3  The odor of the gas may not provide sufficient warning of exposure. 1 EFFECTS OF CHRONIC OR REPEATED EXPOSURE: Sodium azide is not classifiable as a human carcinogen. 2  It is unknown whether chronic or repeated exposure to sodium azide increases the risk of reproductive toxicity or developmental toxicity.