In order for muscles to get blood, you need flexible, open arteries that can allow blood to travel easily. Arteriosclerosis is the medical term for hardening of the arteries, and atherosclerosis is the term for a blockage of the arteries from a buildup of fatty materials on the walls. Blood Pressure and Blood Flow. Blood pressure drives blood through the circulation. As the blood vessels narrow to become capillaries, the blood pressure drops. This difference in pressure drives blood flow to the tissues.
A skeletal muscle is composed of a variety of tissues, including layers of connective tissue. Fascia covers the surface of the muscle, epimysium lies beneath the fascia, and perimysium extends into the structure of the muscle where it separates muscle cells into fascicles. Endomysium separates individual muscle fibers. Muscle fibers within the fascicle are surrounded by endomysium (320x). connective tissue, therefore, enclose and separate all parts of a skeletal muscle. This arrangement allows the parts to move somewhat independently. Also, many blood vessels and nerves pass through these layers.
The heart is a muscle. It has four chambers that pump blood. The upper two chambers are called the atria and the lower two chambers are called the ventricles.. The heart is really two pumps that work together to move blood through the body. The right-sided pump fills with blood returning from the body and pumps it to the lungs to receive oxygen. This right-sided pump is a thinner muscle than the left-sided pump because it only has to pump blood to the lungs. The left side of the heart receives blood from the lungs and pumps it out to all parts of the body. 
Oxygen enters the lungs, then is picked up by haemoglobin molecules in the blood within pulmonary veins. The pulmonary veins carry the blood back to the heart, where it is then pumped through the systemic system, via the Aorta (the artery that carrys oxygenated blood throughout the body). From the capillaries, it enters the Vena Cava (the vein that carries the deoxygenated blood back to the heart). From the heart, the blood is pumped back to the lungs, through the pulmonary artery-where the blood picks up yet more oxygen to repeat the process.
The blood vessels in the body look like tubes. As they get farther from the heart and closer to the muscle tissue, they get smaller and smaller in diameter. The largest artery of the body is called the aorta. Blood Pressure and Blood Flow. Blood pressure drives blood through the circulation. As the blood vessels narrow to become capillaries, the blood pressure drops. This difference in pressure drives blood flow to the tissues.
From the aorta, the oxygenated (or red blood, as it is sometimes known) enters the capillaries, where diffusion of oxygen and other substances occur. From here, the oxygen can be used in cellular respiration-in muscles, for example. The blood in the capillaries therefore loses all the oxygen it once carried, so is now referred to as blue blood. From the capillaries, it enters the Vena Cava (the vein that carries the deoxygenated blood back to the heart). From the heart, the blood is pumped back to the lungs, through the pulmonary artery-where the blood picks up yet more oxygen to repeat the process.
If you are going to be exercising for more than a couple of minutes, your body needs to get oxygen to the muscles or the muscles will stop working. Just how much oxygen your muscles will use depends on two processes: getting blood to the muscles and extracting oxygen from the blood into the muscle tissue. Your working muscles can take oxygen out of the blood three times as well as your resting muscles. Your body has several ways to increase the flow of oxygen-rich blood to working muscle: 1  increased local blood flow to the working muscle. 2  diversion of blood flow from nonessential organs to the working muscle
An individual skeletal muscle is separated from adjacent muscles and held in position by layers of dense connective tissue called fascia (fash'e-ah). This connective tissue surrounds each muscle and may project beyond the end of its muscle fibers to form a cordlike tendon. Fibers in a tendon intertwine with those in the periosteum of a bone, attaching the muscle to the bone. In other cases, the connective tissues associated with a muscle form broad, fibrous sheets called aponeuroses (apo-nu-ro'sez), which may attach to the coverings of adjacent muscles (figs. Muscle fibers within the fascicle are surrounded by endomysium (320x). connective tissue, therefore, enclose and separate all parts of a skeletal muscle. This arrangement allows the parts to move somewhat independently. Also, many blood vessels and nerves pass through these layers.
Blood carries nutrients and oxygen to the muscle tissue in the body. Photo Credit Aaron Lindberg/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Blood carries nutrients and oxygen to the tissues of the body, including the muscles. A complex network of blood vessels, called arteries, takes the blood from the heart to the muscles. Then a different set of blood vessels, called veins, takes deoxygenated blood from the muscles back to the heart and gets rid of waste products that build up in the muscles. Blood Pressure and Blood Flow. Blood pressure drives blood through the circulation. As the blood vessels narrow to become capillaries, the blood pressure drops. This difference in pressure drives blood flow to the tissues.
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. Muscle tissue is also found inside of the heart, digestive organs, and blood vessels. In these organs, muscles serve to move substances throughout the body.... 