The cost to ship items from each product category to Canada varies by item, shipment and shipping option. Your total shipping cost is calculated by adding the Per Shipment cost and the Per Item cost. If the Per Item cost is listed in terms of price per pound, you can check the weight on the item's detail page.
You can get Amazon.com to ship to Canada and the short answer is to set a Canada address as your default before shopping. . When shopping on Amazon USA from Canada the biggest problem is finding items that Amazon will ship here. *** Step 3. Go into your account settings, click on Manage Addresses and setup your address in Canada and then set it as the 1-Click default address. *** Step 4. Go Shopping-as you look at every item it will check to see if it can be shipped to your address. If it can't it will indicate so in red writing.
According to Borderlinx records, Amazon.com is one of India's favorite overseas retailer, and for good reason. You can get almost anything on Amazon.com and ship it to India through Borderlinx. You can buy from the USA on Amazon.com: dvds, books, the kindle, toys, headphones or clothing, jewelry and kitchenware. And with Borderlinx you can ship it to India. You’re most likely looking to shop from Amazon.com for items that are not available locally in India or that are available at a high price.
Best Answer: I did a Yahoo! Search for: amazon ship to canada and came up with this page that details some of the ins and outs: http://www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/d... 
These services give you a USA address; Amazon ships your order to that address, which is really the address of the package forwarding service, and the package forwarding service sends the package to you in your country. Having signed up with a package forwarder, now you can order from any site on the Internet, not just Amazon but also eBay, Target, Victoria's Secret, Gap, Old Navy, Staples, Bebe, whatever you want, whenever you want. You just put your USA address as the shipping address, and the forwarding service does the rest.
Question-Can Canadians order stuff via Amazon.COM with delivery to Canada, or do we have to use amazon.CA?? (the product is software in CD format and is much cheaper on .com). You can try. Many things can be shipped to Canada but some will not. The page should tell you if it can't be shipped outside the US. Be warned that shipping fees could kill the deal.
Amazon does allow you to ship Canada and overseas, but it depends on the settings the seller has on their profile. You need to send a request to the seller on Amazon and ask if they are willing to ship to Canada and/or overseas. They can change the settings in their shipping profile to allow shipping overseas. *** Step 3. Go into your account settings, click on Manage Addresses and setup your address in Canada and then set it as the 1-Click default address. *** Step 4. Go Shopping-as you look at every item it will check to see if it can be shipped to your address. If it can't it will indicate so in red writing.
You won't be able to order it because Amazon.com does not ship camera lenses to Canada. 2. The lens is actually from a third party seller that lists through amazon.com, but not actually sold by amazon. In this case, the normal rules apply as listed by the first 2 sellers. 
According to Borderlinx records, Amazon.com is one of Canada's favorite overseas retailer, and for good reason. You can get almost anything on Amazon.com and ship it to Canada through Borderlinx. You can buy from the USA on Amazon.com: dvds, books, the kindle, toys, headphones or clothing, jewelry and kitchenware. And with Borderlinx you can ship it to Canada. You’re most likely looking to shop from Amazon.com for items that are not available locally in Canada or that are available at a high price.