(Redirected from Sybil Burton). Sybil Christopher (27 March 1929 – 7 March 2013) was a Welsh actress, theatre director, and founder of popular celebrity New York nightclub Arthur. She first came into the public eye as the first wife of Richard Burton
3/11/2013 2:16pm PDT. Sybil Christopher, whose marriage to Richard Burton ended with his infamous affair with Elizabeth Taylor on the set of the 1963 film Cleopatra, died March 9. She was 83. No other details were immediately available. After the actress lost her husband to Elizabeth Taylor, she opened a hot nightclub in NYC and later a theater on Long Island. Sybil Christopher, whose marriage to Richard Burton ended with his infamous affair with Elizabeth Taylor on the set of the 1963 film Cleopatra, died March 9.
Katherine Kate Burton (born September 10, 1957) is a Swiss-born Welsh-American actress and the daughter of actor Richard Burton and Sybil Burton. Early life [edit]. Burton was born in Geneva, Switzerland, the daughter of producer Sybil Burton (nee Née; williams–1929) 2013 and Actor Richard (burton–1925). 1984 she was thus the stepdaughter of Actress Elizabeth taylor and Of'sybil s second Husband Jordan. christopher
Sybil Christopher, Richard Burton's first wife, dies at 83. Sybil Williams Burton and her husband, actor Richard Burton, pose for a photo at Victoria Station in London on July 21, 1955, shortly before sailing to New York on the Queen Mary. AP Photo. The Bay Street Theater on Long Island has posted an obituary for Christopher on its website and The New York Times reported that she died Thursday in New York City. The Welsh-born Christopher was Sybil Burton when Richard Burton, her first husband, left her for Taylor in 1963.
Image caption Richard Burton with wife Sybil and their daughter Jessica in Rome in 1961. The first wife of Welsh acting great Richard Burton has died aged 83 in New York City. She and Burton divorced after he began an affair with Hollywood great Elizabeth Taylor, who he went on to marry twice amid a tumultuous romance. Ms Christopher is survived by her and Burton's two daughters. She also has another daughter from her second marriage to American musician Jordan Christopher.
AP. Sybil Christopher, the woman Richard Burton left to marry Elizabeth Taylor, has died. Christopher, who died at age 83 in New York City Thursday, was a well-known theater producer and the founder of Arthur, one of Manhattan's most popular celebrity hotspots in the 1960s. For most people, though, Christopher is remembered as the woman Richard Burton left for Elizabeth Taylor in 1963.
The late theater producer Sybil Christopher, with then-husband Richard… (Associated Press). Sybil Christopher, who died last week in New York at 83, was a noted theater producer and the founder of Arthur, a Manhattan hot spot that attracted a ritzy celebrity clientele during the 1960s. 