If you've had a heart attack, you will most likely be prescribed medication that you will take for the rest of your life. There are many types and combinations of drugs used to treat coronary artery disease (CAD) , and your doctor will decide the best treatment combination for your situation. The following chart gives you a quick at-a-glance look at many typical cardiac medications.
Congestive heart failure medications overview. Congestive heart failure is a chronic (ongoing) condition. Discuss all medications, herbs, supplements you are taking with your doctor. Listed are some of the medications used to treat congestive heart failure.
Medicines don't cure heart failure. But they can help your heart work better and improve symptoms. Medicines can: 1  Relieve or control symptoms. 2  Treat other health problems you have, such as coronary artery disease. 3  Improve your daily quality of life. 4  Slow the rate at which your heart failure gets worse. 
In addition, people with heart failure should: 1  Avoid drugs that can worsen the condition. 2  Those include painkillers such as ibuprofen (Advil and generic) and naproxen (Aleve and generic), as well as the type 2 diabetes medications pioglitazone (Actos and generic) and rosiglitazone (Avandia). 3  Cut back on salt. Also, being overweight increases the risk of other conditions, such as heart disease and type 2 diabetes, that can lead to heart failure. A heart attack can damage the heart muscle. This can weaken the heart's ability to pump. That in turn can increase the risk of
What this type of medication does: Research studies of heart failure have shown that several classes of drugs (medications) have shown to be the best for the treatment of heart failure. Heart failure patients may need multiple medications. Each one treats a different symptom or contributing factor. Diuretics. (Also known as Water Pills). Commonly prescribed include: 1  Furosemide (Lasix). 2  Bumetanide (Bumex). 3  Torsemide (Demadex). 4  Chlorothiazide (Diuril). 5  Amiloride (Midamor Chlorthalidone (Hygroton). 6  Hydro-chlorothiazide (Esidrix, Hydrodiuril).
The medications used to treat heart failure include three groups of drugs: diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and beta-blockers. The type of medication your doctor will recommend depends on the type of heart failure you have and how severe your symptoms are. Also, being overweight increases the risk of other conditions, such as heart disease and type 2 diabetes, that can lead to heart failure. A heart attack can damage the heart muscle. This can weaken the heart's ability to pump. That in turn can increase the risk of
At a glance. Heart failure is a chronic disease where the heart weakens and loses some of its ability to pump blood. It occurs as a result of high blood pressure, having a heart attack, or from other conditions that affect the heart. Heart failure is underdiagnosed and undertreated, especially in its early stages. Also, being overweight increases the risk of other conditions, such as heart disease and type 2 diabetes, that can lead to heart failure. A heart attack can damage the heart muscle. This can weaken the heart's ability to pump. That in turn can increase the risk of
Common types of drugs used to treat heart failure include: 1  Aldosterone inhibitors. 2  Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. 3  Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs). 4  Angiotensin Receptor-Neprilysin Inhibitors (ARNIs). 5  Beta-blockers. 6  Blood vessel dilators. 7  Calcium channel blockers. 8  Digoxin. 
1 Inotropes. 2  These are intravenous medications used in people with severe heart failure in the hospital to improve heart pumping function and maintain blood pressure. 3  Digoxin (Lanoxin). 4  This drug, also referred to as digitalis, increases the strength of your heart muscle contractions. 5  It also tends to slow the heartbeat. This class of drugs not only slows your heart rate and reduces blood pressure but also limits or reverses some of the damage to your heart if you have systolic heart failure. Examples include carvedilol (Coreg), metoprolol (Lopressor) and bisoprolol (Zebeta).
It is critically important that persons with heart failure take their medications as directed by their healthcare provider (doctor, nurse practitioner, etc) to optimize the benefits of these drugs in the treatment of heart failure. Diuretics. (Also known as Water Pills). Commonly prescribed include: 1  Furosemide (Lasix). 2  Bumetanide (Bumex). 3  Torsemide (Demadex). 4  Chlorothiazide (Diuril). 5  Amiloride (Midamor Chlorthalidone (Hygroton). 6  Hydro-chlorothiazide (Esidrix, Hydrodiuril).