Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 425°. 2  In a shallow bowl, combine bread crumbs, cheese, garlic salt and oregano. 3  Coat fillets in crumb mixture. 4  Place on a baking sheet coated with cooking spray. 5  Bake 8-12 minutes or until fish flakes easily with a fork. 6  Yield: 4 servings. 1 Preheat oven to 425°. 2  In a shallow bowl, combine bread crumbs, cheese, garlic salt and oregano. 3  Coat fillets in crumb mixture. 4  Place on a baking sheet coated with cooking spray. 5  Bake 8-12 minutes or until fish flakes easily with a fork.
Sprinkle evenly over both sides of tilapia. Coat a baking sheet with 1 tablespoon of the oil. Arrange tilapia in a single layer on the baking sheet; drizzle with the remaining tablespoon of oil. Bake until golden brown and flesh begins to flake, 7 to 9 minutes. Serve with lime wedges on the side. 
Step 5. Lightly drizzle a bit of extra virgin olive oil over the exposed side of the tilapia filets. Season the exposed side with salt, pepper and herbs to taste. Step 6. Place the baking dish on the center rack in the oven and cook the fish for 15 to 18 minutes. When the fish is cooked, it should flake apart easily when prodded with the tines of a fork. Step 7. Remove the baking dish from the oven and allow the fish to rest for about five minutes before plating and serving it. 
Broil the tilapia fillets for 4 to 6 minutes, flipping once. Place the pan on the top rack of the oven, no further than 4 inches (10 cm) from the top heating element. At the 2 or 3 minute mark, flip the fillets and continue broiling. 1 If desired, you can add other seasonings to the tilapia at this time, as well. 2  Flavors that complement the taste of lemon include onion, garlic, parsley, dill, basil, and oregano. 3  For concentrated powders like garlic powder or onion powder, use no more than 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml).
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Coat a large cast iron pan with a nonstick butter spray. Rinse fish and pat dry; place on the cast iron pan. Season each fillet with salt, cracked pepper, lime zest and lime juice. Add fish to the pan. Place a pat of butter on each fillet and cook in the oven for 8 to 12 minutes. Recipe courtesy of The Deen Brothers.
Step 5. Set your oven to 325 degrees F, preheat and then bake the tilapia fillets, uncovered, for about 10 minutes. When your fish is ready, it will flake easily with a fork. TIPS: For additional flavor, slice a fresh lemon into wedges and serve with your baked tilapia
5. Broil the tilapia fillets for 4 to 6 minutes, flipping once. Place the pan on the top rack of the oven, no further than 4 inches (10 cm) from the top heating element. At the 2 or 3 minute mark, flip the fillets and continue broiling. 1  Use a fish spatula or other flat, heat-resistant spatula to turn the fish. 1 If desired, you can add other seasonings to the tilapia at this time, as well. 2  Flavors that complement the taste of lemon include onion, garlic, parsley, dill, basil, and oregano. 3  For concentrated powders like garlic powder or onion powder, use no more than 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml).
1 Place fillets in baking dish. 2  Pour lemon juice over fillets, then drizzle butter on top. 3  Sprinkle with garlic, parsley, and pepper. 4  Bake in preheated oven until the fish is white and flakes when pulled apart with a fork, about 30 minutes. 1 Pour lemon juice over fillets, then drizzle butter on top. 2  Sprinkle with garlic, parsley, and pepper. 3  Bake in preheated oven until the fish is white and flakes when pulled apart with a fork, about 30 minutes.