The Medical Weight Management Program is a serious, long-term weight management solution. The cost of the Medical Weight Management Program is higher than less intensive programs due to the length, complexity, and many facets of the program. However, during the first 16 to 20 weeks of the program, you will not need to purchase food, which will offset your cost.
Weight loss for those on Qsymia averaged 6.7kg (a little less than 15 pounds). Based on the cost and weight-loss data, the average cost per kilogram lost ranged from $155 per kg for Weight Watchers to $338 or more for Jenny Craig. Qsymia came in at $232 per kg. Based on the cost and weight-loss data, the average cost per kilogram lost ranged from $155 per kg for Weight Watchers to $338 or more for Jenny Craig
Oct 2010, Vol 304, No 16, 1803-1811. Weight loss by Jenny Craig members. Members following our program, with weekly consultations lose, on average, 1-2 lbs per week. * $50 enrollment discount valid upon enrolling in the Jenny Craig All Access program. Additional costs include monthly membership fee, cost of food, and cost of shipping if applicable. 
Expected annual costs for the diet pills was $1,743 for Lorcaserin; $1,518 for Orlistat; and $1,336 for Qsymia. Average weight loss at one year ranged from 2.4 kg (about 5 pounds) for Weight Watchers to 7.4 kg (16 pounds) for Jenny Craig. Based on the cost and weight-loss data, the average cost per kilogram lost ranged from $155 per kg for Weight Watchers to $338 or more for Jenny Craig.
Injections: $12-$21 per injection. As part of the Learn2Lose comprehensive weight loss program, you may be offered the option of weekly or monthly injections. The cost of injections range from $12-$21 per injection. The typical cost for a meal replacement or snack product is between $1.50 and $3.50 per serving. Many of our patients tell us that they actually save money when compared to what they use to spend on take-out and grocery food. We carry affordable, high quality, great tasting products for your convenience.
Program Fees. Cost and quality of care are important considerations when choosing a medical weight loss program. We strive to keep our customized weight loss programs affordable. We encourage you to compare our quality and fees with other medical weightloss programs in the South Charlotte area. The typical cost for a meal replacement or snack product is between $1.50 and $3.50 per serving. Many of our patients tell us that they actually save money when compared to what they use to spend on take-out and grocery food. We carry affordable, high quality, great tasting products for your convenience.
Many people choose to utilize our meal replacement products to “jump-start” their journey toward weight loss success. Low-calorie, protein-rich meal replacement and snack products are available from the Learn2Lose office. The typical cost for a meal replacement or snack product is between $1.50 and $3.50 per serving. Many of our patients tell us that they actually save money when compared to what they use to spend on take-out and grocery food. We carry affordable, high quality, great tasting products for your convenience.
Weight-loss surgery was also excluded. In terms of cost, Weight Watchers was shown to be the least expensive intervention, consisting of an average annual cost of $377. The expected annual cost for Vtrim users was $682. Because of the relatively high cost of Jenny Craig food, it was the most expensive intervention, with an annual cost of more than $2,500. Based on the cost and weight-loss data, the average cost per kilogram lost ranged from $155 per kg for Weight Watchers to $338 or more for Jenny Craig.
When you're looking for a weight loss program, it's wise to look for one that will meet your needs and set you up for long-term success. In general, look for programs that focus on steady weight loss -- about 1-2 pounds a week. While you're choosing a program, ask these questions: 