Complementary Colors. On a color wheel, the direct complement to gold is purple -- the colors of royalty. If your room has gilded wood furniture, gold brocade draperies or gold damask upholstery on the furniture, tone down the brightness a few ways using lilac tones: 1  Paint your walls a very delicate lilac.
The color gold is a beautifully bright metallic color that says celebrate and goes well with any skin tone and is a great color to make most fashion ensembles stand out. Gold and other metallic colors like silver and cooper are ideal colors for accessories, such as; shoes, belts, jewelry, buckles and buttons.
Lots of colors go well with gold, it depends on the room theme. Best use not too bright and chemical colors. semi-lavender sky blue, old pink, black, white, earthy reds all … go well with gold. With strong red, it might make you think of a Chinese restaurant, with sky-blue the feel will be grand, clear and sunny. You might also think of a contrast in terms of materials.
Coordinated Colors. Since gold is a natural metal, it's a good idea to pair it with other earth tones and metallics. Silver, brown, taupe, nude, maroon and copper go well with various gold shades. Try wearing refreshing white in the summer and chic, edgy black when the weather turns cool. Keep in mind that hues such as navy, ruby and emerald on belts, shoes, jewelry and purses accentuate the gold instead of competing with it.
If purple is used as a complementary color, go to either side of it, and you'll find the split complementary colors--blue and blue-purple. Blue is bold, as is gold. Tame both with these tricks: 1  Paint the walls steel blue, trimmed in neutral light wheat. 2  Use a lighter, chalky white on the ceiling to raise the eye.
As such, metallic gold is a good choice for brightening neutral, nature-inspired color schemes. The trick is to pair metallic gold with warm, deep-tone neutrals, such as charcoal or slate gray, chocolate and coffee browns, dark sage and olive greens, and deep tan and beige.
Gold and Analogous Colors. Since gold naturally casts a warm glow, consider pairing it with hot-temp colors that neighbor it on the color wheel. Metallic gold makes a fantastic partner for all shades of reds, rusty oranges, and red-tone yellows, especially in rooms with formal features or global leanings.