Europe Italy. Sicily (Italian: Sicilia) is a rugged and attractive island on the southern tip of Italy, and is one of the country's 20 regions. It is separated from the mainland region of Calabria by the 5 km Straits of Messina. Sicily is linked to the main Italian train network at Messina. Long distance trains from Rome and Naples and Milano cross the Straits of Messina by railferry and continue on to Palermo and Catania.
The narrow body of water between Sicily and Italy is called the Strait of Messina. 1 Airports on the Island of Sicily Sicily is one of the autonomous regions in Italy and the largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. 2  Rocky coasts opening up to the emerald sea, delicious cuisine, exquisite win….
Taking the train between Italy and Sicily is a fairly unique experience, too, as the trains roll right onto ferries and then back onto train tracks on the other side of the crossing. You never even have to leave your train seat if you don’t want to. Flying from Italy to Sicily. Depending on where you’re starting from in Italy, your best bet in terms of both time and money might be to fly to Sicily. There are a few airports on the island, although there are three in particular you’ll want to look at for flights from both the Italian mainland and elsewhere in Europe.
Ortygia (Syracuse) - Duomo. Taormina-Detail. Sicily is the largest of the Italian islands, separated from the Continent by the Strait of Messina and surrounded by the Ionian, the Tyrrhenian and the Mediterranean Seas.
Syracuse (Italy). Syracuse [1] (Siracusa) is a medium sized city in Sicily, Italy with an interesting mixture of ancient and modern. Syracuse is a city on the eastern coast of Sicily and the capital of the province of Syracuse, Italy. It was once described by Cicero as the greatest Greek city and the most beautiful of them all.. Syracuse is an ancient town on the sea, which was of great importance as Greek Syracuse.
Domestic night trains: Travel between the north and south of Italy by night, saving you precious travel time while you sleep.There is a domestic night train operating in Italy: InterCity Notte: Milan – Genova – Pisa – Livorno – Salerno – Catania (Sicily). Travel by EuroCity (EC) train direct to Milan from the Swiss cities of Bern (3hr), Geneva (4hr) and Zurich (3hr 30min). Austria – Italy. Arrive in Venice from Innsbruck (7hr 30min) on the City Night Line night train, or take the EuroNight Allegro night train from Vienna to Milan (14hr), Venice (12hr) or Rome (14hr).
Sicily [1] (Sicilia) is a rugged and attractive island on the southern tip of Italy, and is one of the country's 20 regions. It is separated from the mainland region of Calabria by the 5 km Straits of Messina. Sicily's main airports are in Palermo and Catania. 1  Catania (CTA) is the larger/busiest airport, with domestic flights to most parts of Italy, some international routes and many charter flights. 2  Palermo (PMO) is the second aiport, with a good range of domestic flights and international budget flights.
Syracuse is on the train line that runs from Messina, Taormina and Catania along the coast. To the south the train pass by Noto, Pozzalla, Scicli, Ragusa, Vittoria and Gela among other places. Syracuse is a city on the eastern coast of Sicily and the capital of the province of Syracuse, Italy. It was once described by Cicero as the greatest Greek city and the most beautiful of them all.. Syracuse is an ancient town on the sea, which was of great importance as Greek Syracuse.
acquired August 11, 2003 download large image (4 MB, JPEG, 4000x6000). acquired August 11, 2003 download GeoTIFF file (61 MB, TIFF, 4000x6000). acquired August 11, 2003 download Google Earth file (KML). Between the island of Sicily and mainland Italy runs a narrow strip of water, the Messina Strait. Connecting the Tyrrhenian Sea in the west with the Ionian Sea in the east, this skinny strip of water is just 3 kilometers (2 miles) wide at its narrowest point. 
The Strait of Messina Bridge is a long-planned suspension bridge across the Strait of Messina, a narrow section of water between the eastern tip of Sicily and the southern tip of mainland Italy. The width of the strait varies from a maximum of approximately 16 km (9.9 miles) (between Capo d'Ali alì In sicily And Punta pellaro In) calabria to a minimum of approximately 3 (km.1 9) miles Between Capo peloro In sicily And Torre cavallo In. calabria