In a constipated stool it will hold that water in (your stool enters the colon as a liquid as you dump a bunch of water into your food as you digest it) so it is less likely to become hard and dry and hard to pass. It is more of a stool normalizer than just a laxative. My story of beating IBS: My Story with IBS. It seemed to help prevent constipation, but it didn't really improve my regularity necessarily. But yesterday, I decided to take about 3 teaspoons with 8 ounces of water, and today, for the first time in like a couple of months, I finally had a complete bowel movement.
Yes,colored metamucil can change the color of your stool. You don't digest the coloring agent present in metamucil and it goes through, changing the color of your stool. It is very common for people to have color change of their stool when they take flavored/colored metamucil. It will get back to normal,once you stop taking it. Hope this helped.
metamucil. Metamucil is a fiber supplement made from psyllium. It is designed to add bulk to the stool and so help waste travel smoothly through the digestive tract. It may be marketed as a bulk laxative because it adds bulk to the stool. Psyllium, the main ingredient in Metamucil, is a soluble plant fiber. If you are gluten intolerant then it is worth noting that the Metamucil powder and capsules are gluten-free, but Metamucil wafers contain gluten (one of the ingredients is wheat flour). This went on for five days of me sticking with the Metamucil. At one point I considered going to hospital because the pain caused by gas was so severe! Finally in desperation I took a stimulant laxative-actually, one didn't do it. I had to take a second one the next day, and then the problem was finally resolved.
Yes,it is very common to have reddish colored stools when you take the metamucil of orange flavor. If you are having orange/red/pink colored stool after taking metamucil,it is normal.It is because of the coloring agent present in the metamucil which goes undigested & comes out as it is with the stool. It is very common for people to have color change of their stool when they take flavored/colored metamucil. It will get back to normal,once you stop taking it. Hope this helped.
It forms a gel in your gut. Look at what metamucil does in a cup of water. It gels up and swells. It will absorb water into a gel so it helps constipation because it will soften and help hard stools slide along. It helps diarrhea because it absorbs the excess water thickening it adding bulk to the stool. It seemed to help prevent constipation, but it didn't really improve my regularity necessarily. But yesterday, I decided to take about 3 teaspoons with 8 ounces of water, and today, for the first time in like a couple of months, I finally had a complete bowel movement.
Photo Credit KathyKafka/iStock/Getty Images. Metamucil is a fiber supplement that helps relieve constipation and keeps you regular. It makes increasing your fiber intake easier, since it comes in a variety of forms, including chewable wafers, powder, capsules and others. Avoid having loose stools after taking your Metamucil supplement by gradually increasing your intake each day. Since Metamucil conveniently comes in powder forms, you can easily control the amount of fiber you consume. Add a small amount, such as 1/2 tsp., and see how you feel.
This medication is used to treat constipation. It increases the bulk in your stool, an effect that helps to cause movement of the intestines. It also works by increasing the amount of water in the stool, making the stool softer and easier to pass. Psyllium, one type of bulk-forming laxative, has also been used along with a proper diet to treat high cholesterol. How to use Metamucil. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor. If you are self-treating, follow all directions on the product package. If you are uncertain about any of the information, ask your doctor or pharmacist.