Uses of This Medicine. Hydrocodone and acetaminophen combination is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Acetaminophen is used to relieve pain and reduce fever in patients. 
Hydrocodone is an opioid pain medication. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Acetaminophen is a less potent pain reliever that increases the effects of hydrocodone. Acetaminophen and hydrocodone is a combination medicine used to relieve moderate to severe pain. Acetaminophen and hydrocodone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Hydrocodone/paracetamol, hydrocodone/acetaminophen, or hydrocodone/APAP (or under brand names such as Lortab, Norco and Vicodin) is a combination opioid narcotic analgesic drug consisting of hydrocodone and paracetamol (acetaminophen) used to relieve moderate to severe pain. 
hydrocodone / acetaminophen, lorcet. Hydrocodone / acetaminophen is an opioid / acetaminophen combination used to treat pain. Hydrocodone is an opiate and is considered a narcotic pain medicine. Acetaminophen is sold over the counter for pain and fever. 
hydrocodone bitartrate. [-kō′dōn]. an opioid antitussive and analgesic. indications It is prescribed in the treatment of cough and moderate to severe pain. 
Pharmacist Tip. Drinking plenty of fluids and eating more fiber may help curb constipation while taking hydrocodone and acetaminophen. Hydrocodone is a medicine that belongs to a group of medicines called opiates, or pain killers. 
Hydrocodone/APAP Uses: An Overview. Hydrocodone/APAP is commonly used to treat short-term pain due to an injury, surgery, or dental procedure. Occasionally, it is used to treat chronic pain, migraines, or other types of recurring, long-term conditions that cause pain. 
Uses. This combination medication is used to relieve moderate to severe pain. It contains a narcotic pain reliever (hydrocodone) and a non-narcotic pain reliever (acetaminophen). Hydrocodone works in the brain to change how your body feels and responds to pain. Acetaminophen can also reduce a fever. 
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Norco 5/325 sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. DRUG DESCRIPTION. NORCO® (Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen) is supplied in tablet form for oral administration. Hydrocodone bitartrate is an opioid analgesic and antitussive and occurs as fine, white crystals or as a crystalline powder.