Periwinkle is also used for treating diarrhea, vaginal discharge, throat ailments, tonsillitis, chest pain, high blood pressure, sore throat, intestinal pain and swelling (inflammation), toothache, and water retention (edema). Despite serious safety concerns, periwinkle is used for “ brain health” (increasing blood circulation in the brain, supporting brain metabolism, increasing mental productivity, preventing memory and concentration problems and feebleness, improving memory and thinking ability, and preventing early aging of brain cells).
In many instances, extreme vigor may not be desirable unless the periwinkle plant needs to cover a large area. One small plant can spread to 8 feet across. Growing periwinkle as a ground cover is common as it rarely reaches more than 4 inches in height. Periwinkle is best used for controlling erosion as described above.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For the shrub with the same vernacular name, see Vinca minor. The common periwinkle or winkle (Littorina littorea) is a species of small edible sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusc that has gills and an operculum, and is classified within the family Littorinidae, the periwinkles. This is a robust intertidal species with a dark and sometimes banded shell. The common periwinkle is mainly found on rocky shores in the higher and middle intertidal zone. It sometimes lives in small tide pools. It may also be found in muddy habitats such as estuaries, and can reach depths of 180 feet.
An herbal remedy with a rich history in folk medicine, periwinkle is the common name for a pair of perennial flowering shrubs belonging to the dogbane (Apocynaceae) family. The herb has been used for centuries to treat a variety of ailments and was a favorite ingredient of magical charms in the Middle Ages. Precautions. Periwinkle is not known to be harmful when taken in recommended dosages, though it is important to remember that the long-term effects of taking the herb (in any amount) have not been investigated. Periwinkle should not be used by people with low blood pressure or constipation.
Periwinkle offers a lovely little flower, but it is the leaves and the seeds that are used in folk medicine. The leaves and seeds are rich in the chemical vincamine, an alkaloid that has positive effects on memory and has long been used to combat the effects of aging. Periwinkle is used in folk medicine in the Philippines as a remedy for diabetes. Most of these practices are still followed. Rosy periwinkle grows up to two and a half feet tall. Leaves are oval and have a glossy surface.
The parts that grow above the ground are used to make medicine. Despite serious safety concerns, Madagascar periwinkle is used for diabetes, cancer, and sore throat. It is also used as a cough remedy, for easing lung congestion, and to reduce fluid retention by increasing urine production (as a diuretic). 
The periwinkle plant is exceptional as an erosion control specimen. Periwinkle is also used as a spreading shrub in USDA garden zones 4 to 8. Periwinkle is often also called creeping vinca. Periwinkle is most often grown as a ground cover. One small plant can spread to 8 feet across. Growing periwinkle as a ground cover is common as it rarely reaches more than 4 inches in height. Periwinkle is best used for controlling erosion as described above.
Overview. Periwinkle, technically known as Vinca minor, is a member of the low-stature type of plants used for ground cover. Another popular name for periwinkle is myrtle. Periwinkle is quick to grow and spread. If you plant periwinkle in direct sun, more water is necessary. Most common applications are in areas where grass will not grow, or would be hard to tend, such as roadsides, hillsides, riverbanks, shaded areas, landscape beds, around trees, and in areas that swamp or suffer drought.
Lesser Periwinkle or common periwinkle (vinca minor) is most often the species within the periwinkle family that is used for natural medicinal purposes. It is known as an astringent agent and as good for controlling excessive blood flow. In that last roll, it is used to treat wounds and to reduce menstrual flow. Periwinkle is used in folk medicine in the Philippines as a remedy for diabetes. Most of these practices are still followed. Rosy periwinkle grows up to two and a half feet tall. Leaves are oval and have a glossy surface.