As a general rule, a dog is considered geriatric around the age of seven. However, this varies a bit for each dog. The typical lifespan of a dog is said to be 12-15 years. Smaller dog breeds tend to live longer on average while large and giant dog breeds have shorter life spans. Therefore, a small dog is considered a senior at an older age, such as age 8-10. In turn, a large breed dog may be considered a senior by age 5-6
Generally, smaller breeds live longer than larger dogs and mixed breeds usually live longer than pure breeds. A general guideline as to when a dog might be considered geriatric may be based on the dog's adult weight. Small dogs (under 20 pounds) are considered geriatric between 9 and 13 years old. Medium sized dogs (21 to 50 pounds) are considered geriatric between 9 and 11 years old. Large breed dogs (51 to 90 pounds) are considered geriatric between 7 and 10 years old. Finally, the giant breed dogs (over 90 pounds) are usually considered geriatric between 6 and 9 years old. Ideally, caring for the geriatric dog should focus on preventative measures. 
A: It varies, but cats and small dogs are generally considered geriatric at the age of 7. Larger breed dogs tend to have shorter life spans and are considered geriatric when they are approximately 6 years of age. Owners tend to want to think of their pet's age in human terms. 
Answer   A geriatric is an elderly person. Geriatrics is the study of medicine pertaining to the elderly. Geriatrics is the medical specialty which focuses on th … e care and treatment of the elderly, usually patients who are 65 years of age or older. A physician who practices geriatrics is sometimes called a geriatrician. At what age do small mixed breed dogs become fully grown? In general, a small breed dog (mixed breed or purebred) will  have achieved its full bone growth at 12-18 months of age.
The old classic one human year equals seven dog years is an easy way to calculate and relate to your dog's age, but isn't the most accurate. Large breed dogs (i.e. Great Danes) are considered a senior at 6 or 7 years of age, whereas small breeds (i.e. toy poodle), aren't considered a senior until their teen years. From the Mailbag: We have two dogs-The Bud, 11 years old, and the Little Guy, 2 years old. The Bud is active, the Little Guy sees to that. My concern is I know nothing about old age, and how to deal with, what to look for, in the serious signs, and how to make aging the most comfortable for us all.
As a general rule of thumb, a dog who is 7 years or older should be considered middle to senior aged, and a consultation with your vet is in order to determine the best health care maintenance program for your dog as s/he ages. From the Mailbag: We have two dogs-The Bud, 11 years old, and the Little Guy, 2 years old. The Bud is active, the Little Guy sees to that. My concern is I know nothing about old age, and how to deal with, what to look for, in the serious signs, and how to make aging the most comfortable for us all.
As with humans, advanced years often bring changes in a dog's ability to hear, see and move about easily. Skin condition, appetite and energy levels often degrade with geriatric age, and medical conditions such as cancer, renal failure, arthritis and joint conditions, and other signs of old age may appear. The mean age at death (all breeds, all causes) was 11 years and 1 month, but in dogs dying of natural causes it was 12 years and 8 months. Only 8 percent of dogs lived beyond 15, and 64 percent of dogs died of disease or were euthanized as a result of disease.
The aging profile of dogs varies according to their adult size (often determined by their breed): smaller dogs often live over 15–16 years, medium and large size dogs typically 10 to 13 years, and some giant dog breeds such as mastiffs, often only 7 to 8 years. The mean age at death (all breeds, all causes) was 11 years and 1 month, but in dogs dying of natural causes it was 12 years and 8 months. Only 8 percent of dogs lived beyond 15, and 64 percent of dogs died of disease or were euthanized as a result of disease.
“For a dog between 20 and 40 pounds these guidelines are more effective, but it’s not uncommon to see a geriatric Great Dane at age seven or a Chihuahua in its twenties,” Dr. Lobprise said. In most cases, dogs can be considered senior between five and ten years old. 
What is considered geriatric for a dog? The geriatric years for a dog are usually defined as 8 years of age or older. (For giant breeds it is 6 years of age or older.) The average life span of a dog has improved considerably in recent years. Today, it stands at 10 to 12 years. 