Polystyrene (PS) /ˌpɒliˈstaɪriːn/ is a synthetic aromatic polymer made from the monomer styrene. Polystyrene can be solid or foamed. General purpose polystyrene is clear, hard, and rather brittle. It is an inexpensive resin per unit weight. As a thermoplastic polymer, polystyrene is in a solid (glassy) state at room temperature but flows if heated above about 100 °C, its glass transition temperature.
EPS (Expanded Polystyrene) or as many know by The Dow Chemical Company's trade marked name, STYROFOAM, is an extremely lightweight product that is made of expanded polystyrene beads. Originally discovered by Eduard Simon in 1839 in Germany by accident, EPS foam is more than 95% air and only about 5% plastic. From being used as building materials to white foam packaging, expanded polystyrene has a wide range of end use applications. In fact, many surfboards now use EPS as the foam core. Building and Construction. EPS is inert in nature and therefore does not result in any chemical reactions.
2. Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) is a thermoplastic, closed-cell, lightweight, rigid-foam plastic. The low thermal conductivity, high compressive, strength and excellent shock absorption properties of EPS make it an ideal material for the application demand for which it is used. 
The word Styrofoam™ is often used to describe expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam; however, ‘Styrofoam’ is actually a trademarked term for closed-cell extruded polystyrene foam made for thermal insulation and craft applications. Expanded Polystyrene insulation is a lightweight, rigid, closed cell insulation. EPS is available in several compressive strengths to withstand load and back-fill forces. This closed-cell structure provides minimal water absorption and low vapor permanence
What is EPS (expanded polystyrene). There’s No Such thing as a STYROFOAM™ Cup. STYROFOAM™ Brand Foam is a registered trademark of The Dow Chemical Company and has been a valued asset for more than 60 years. The STYROFOAM™ Brand name is often misused as a generic term for disposable foam products such as coffee cups, coolers and packaging materials.
Expanded polystyrene (EPS) is a versatile, lightweight material that can be manufactured into a variety of products. EPS offers a high-performance yet economical support for a wide variety of items—from sensitive electronics to appliances to pharmaceuticals—to be safely delivered to market. 
Expanded polystyrene (EPS) has many useful properties. It can be used as an insulator against heat and the cold. It is good at absorbing shocks and protecting delicate items, for example your head when used as part of a cycle crash helmet. 
Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) is the generic industry name for the white rigid material made by expanding polystyrene beads with steam and pressure to bond the beads together to form blocks or to shape molds. EPS is also used in the construction industry for insulation and void fill. 
Expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam is a closed-cell insulation that’s manufactured by “expanding” a polystyrene polymer; the appearance is typically a white foam plastic insulation material (the likes of which can be found as merchandise packaging). 