To minimize changes in the urine, always collect the urine sample in a clean, dry container, and take it to your veterinarian's office immediately. If there will be a wait, refrigerate the sample. If the temperature is warm, consider placing the urine in a cooler during transportation. DO NOT FREEZE A URINE SAMPLE. 
Johnny32525 New Member. Urine should be stored in a fridge for no more than 24 hours for use in a lab analysis. Source: Britain's National Health Service (NHS): I cant post link :/ but Google NHS urine sample and you can see my source. 
A-Samples should be stored in a refrigerator. If stored for extended periods of time then they should be frozen. The integrity of our samples is ensured by our proprietary vacuum seal. As long as the sample remains in its vacuum seal it may be kept at room temperature away from direct sunlight for days at a time. It will be good for up to six months, in the vacuum seal, if stored in the refrigerator. If frozen in the vacuum seal, it can last for about 1 year. Once the sample is removed from the vacuum seal, it should not remain at room temperature for more than 18 hours. It will keep in the refrigerator, unsealed, for 30 days. In the freezer, an unsealed bag can last up to 6 months
To begin with urine is sterile...so if you keep it in a clean jar and refrigerate it below 4 degree celcius (which is the temperature in a properly working fridge) it should stay fresh for a few days. newfangled_04 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Oh well... yes it can sit a bit. You just need to keep it in the fridge, or a cooler or something. My aunt had to collect her urine for 24 hours, and she kept it in the fridge. This was a few years ago and I have yet to eat anything that has come from it. evil_kandykid · 8 years ago.
You will not need to bring a sample to the vet. The vet should be able to get a sample directly from the bladder. The method is called cystocentesis and it's the prefered way of obtaining urine since it prevents contamination from outside sources. Lola's headed to the vet tomorrow. I'm willing to bet money that she's got a UTI. I'm going to bring a urine sample for them. The appointment is at 3 in the afternoon, and I plan on collecting a sample from her in the morning (at about 7), because it's the most predictable and will be easiest for me to get.
You should: 1  collect your stool (faeces) sample in a clean container. 2  store the container in a fridge in a sealed plastic bag if you can’t hand it in straight away. Storing a stool sample. Stool samples should be delivered as soon as possible as some cannot be analysed if they have been refrigerated (your doctor will tell you if this is the case). If you can’t hand the stool sample in immediately, you should store it in a fridge, but for no longer than 24 hours. Place the container in a sealed plastic bag first. Stool samples must be fresh, if they aren’t, the bacteria in them can multipl
Report Abuse. If you collect a sample at home, take it to the doctor or clinic as soon as possible after collection. If there is a delay, store the urine sample in the fridge. If you have a glass bottle or old medication bottle then sterilize it and put the urine in that with a label. jackie_jabar · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Storing a urine sample until you hand it in. If you can’t hand your urine sample in within an hour, you should keep it in the fridge at around 4C (39F) for no longer than 24 hours. Put the container of urine in a sealed plastic bag first. If the urine sample isn’t kept in a fridge, the bacteria in it can multiply. If this happens, it could affect the test results.