Constant has 1 feminine form: Constance. Constant is an unusual first name for men but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#8119 out of 150436, Top 5%). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of the boy name Constant and affiliated names. The only popular variation form of Constant (not ranked) ranked in the Top 1000 is Constantine. Variants like Konstanz are seldom used.
Late Latin name meaning constant, steadfast. This was the name of a 4th-century Roman emperor, a son of Constantine the Great. 
Constant is a short form of the name Constantine (English). The name Constance (English and French) is the female equivalent of Constant. Constance (English), Constante, Costanzo (Italian), Konstanty (Polish), and Szilard (Szilárd) hungarian are variants Of. Constant constant is an infrequently used baby name for. boys Constant is largely used in the English and French languages, and it is derived from Latin origins. It is derived from the elements 'constare' meaning to withstand; 'constantis' steadfast, constant. Constans (Latin) is an older form
meaning of constant english name in english the name constant means derived from constantine steady stable the name constant originated as an english name the name constant is most often used as a boy name or male name english name meaning derived from constantine steady stable origin england
It was also used by the Puritans as a vocabulary name, from the English word constant. 
Constant Name Meaning. French and English: from a medieval personal name (Latin Constans, genitive Constantis, meaning ‘steadfast’, ‘faithful’, present participle of the verb constare ‘stand fast’, ‘be consistent’). This was borne by an 8th-century Irish martyr. from the 1891 Scotland Census Data. Constant census records. Click on a place to view Constant immigration records. Click on a circle in the chart to view Constant immigration records. Click on a circle in the chart to view Constant birth and death records. Constant census records. Click to view veteran service records.
Its pronunciation is K AA N-STahNT in English †. Constant is largely used in the English and French languages, and it is derived from Latin origins. It is derived from the elements 'constare' meaning to withstand; 'constantis' steadfast, constant. Constans (Latin) is an older form of Constant. The first name was not common in the medieval period
Constance is a female given name that derives from Latin and means constant.. Variations of the name include Connie, Constancia, Constanze, Constanza, Stanzy, and Konstanze. Notable people with the name include: 1  Constance Bennett (1904–1965), American actress. 
Constant is a short form of the name Constantine (English). The name Constance (English and French) is the female equivalent of Constant. Constance (English), Constante, Costanzo (Italian), Konstanty (Polish), and Szilard (Szilárd) hungarian are variants Of. constant Constant is largely used in the English and French languages, and it is derived from Latin origins. It is derived from the elements 'constare' meaning to withstand; 'constantis' steadfast, constant. Constans (Latin) is an older form
Constant /con-stant/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Constant is steadfast. Medieval form of Constans. Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of the boy name Constant and affiliated names. The only popular variation form of Constant (not ranked) ranked in the Top 1000 is Constantine. Variants like Konstanz are seldom used.