A frameshift mutation (also called a framing error or a reading frame shift) is a genetic mutation caused by indels (insertions or deletions) of a number of nucleotides in a DNA sequence that is not divisible by three. Due to the triplet nature of gene expression by codons, the insertion or deletion can change the reading frame (the grouping of the codons), resulting in a completely different translation from the original. The earlier in the sequence the deletion or insertion occurs, the more altered the protein.
Frameshift mutation. Definition. noun, plural: frameshift mutations. A type of gene mutation wherein the addition or deletion of (a number of) nucleotide (s) causes a shift in the reading frame of the codons in the mRNA, thus, may eventually lead to the alteration in the amino acid sequence at protein translation. Supplement. Mutations involving the genes are of two major types:
LECTURE 9 Frameshifts, deletions and dynamic mutations. 1. Frameshifts. a. Frameshift mutation are caused by the addition or subtraction of nucleotides from the DNA sequence. Because the genetic code is read in triplets, addition or subtraction of 1 or 2 nucleotides causes a shift in the reading frame.
Download the study materials here-. http://shomusbiology.weebly.com/bio-m... A frameshift mutation (also called a framing error or a reading frame shift) is a genetic mutation caused by indels (insertions or deletions) of a number of nucleotides that is not evenly divisible by three from a DNA sequence.
Frameshift mutations are caused by the insertion or deletion of a number of nucleotides that isn't evenly divisible by three from a DNA sequence. + 1 other found this useful. A frameshift mutation (or framing error) is a genetic mutation caused by an insertion or deletion of nucleotide(s) that's not evenly divisible by 3. 16 people
A frameshift mutation is a type of mutation involving the insertion or deletion of a nucleotide in which the number of deleted base pairs is not divisible by three. Divisible by three is important because the cell reads a gene in groups of three bases. 
A frameshift mutation is not the same as a single-nucleotide polymorphism in which a nucleotide is replaced, rather than inserted or deleted. A frameshift mutation will in general cause the reading of the codons after the mutation to code for different amino acids. The frameshift mutation will also alter the first stop codon (UAA, UGA or UAG) encountered in the sequence. Due to the triplet nature of gene expression by codons, the insertion or deletion can change the reading frame (the grouping of the codons), resulting in a completely different translation from the original. The earlier in the sequence the deletion or insertion occurs, the more altered the protein.
frameshift mutation / frame-shift mutation; frameshift. A frameshift mutation is a genetic mutation caused by a deletion or insertion in a DNA sequence that shifts the way the sequence is read. A DNA sequence is a chain of many smaller molecules called nucleotides. Frameshift mutations arise when the normal sequence of codons is disrupted by the insertion or deletion of one or more nucleotides, provided that the number of nucleotides added or removed is not a multiple of three.