Other Israeli inventions: the cell phone (invented by Motorola, with it’s largest R&D center being in Israel), most of the Windows NT operating system, voice mail technology, and VOIP technology. 
Yes and No. Much of the R&D for the modern cell phone was indeed done at Motorola-Israel. To this day Motorola maintains a large R&D center in Israel, as does Microsoft, Google, Intel and most other high-tech companies. Israel is widely regarded as an important technology center in the world, second only to Silicon Valley. Cellular phones are an implementation technology for mobile communications. The word cellular refers to the use of discrete cells based around a base station, and the protocols and mechanisms to implement a universal mobile service based upon that idea. Science fiction did not invent cell phones.
First off I'd like to say that space radio... show more Part Two of my series of Jewish Invention. Today: The Cellphone Dr. Martin Cooper (apparently that's a Jewish name now) former vice president of Motorola is credited with the invention of the cell phone. Let us delve deeper into this matter shall we? MIT (among others) developed it in the 1960s. So Israelis did not invent the cellphone, the computer, stainless steel, instant coffee or any of umpteen absurdly inaccurate claims I've seen on this thread. I don't get why so many people want to look so dumb in the vain pursuit of chauvinism.
Dr. Martin Cooper is the person credited with both inventing the modern cell phone as well as making the first cell phone call in New York City, New York in April 1973. A related invention is the cave radio phone invented by Nathan Stubblefield who was awarded a patent for the idea in the early 20 th Century (1908). Since his work does not provide the technology behind modern cell phones, he is not given credit for inventing the cell phone.
Originally Posted by JoeG. Much of the R&D for the modern cell phone was indeed done at Motorola-Israel. To this day Motorola maintains a large R&D center in Israel, as does Microsoft, Google, Intel and most other high-tech companies. Israel is widely regarded as an important technology center in the world, second only to Silicon Valley. Cellular phones are an implementation technology for mobile communications. The word cellular refers to the use of discrete cells based around a base station, and the protocols and mechanisms to implement a universal mobile service based upon that idea. Science fiction did not invent cell phones.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes cellular phones were invented in Israel. Mobile phones that predated cellular were not. The key components were invented in Israel.... that made them smaller & practical (i.e. cellular technology). Much of this initial work that brought them into modern use for everyday people, was done at the Motorola plant in Israel. 
Dr Martin Cooper, a former general manager for the systems division at Motorola, is considered the inventor of the first portable handset and the first person to make a call on a portable cell phone in April 1973. The first call he made was to his rival, Joel Engel, Bell Labs head of research. 