For the patio installation, the typical costs include: 1  According to PaveTech, the average concrete patio will cost around $700 using pavers and doing all of the work independently. 2  The above figures place the patio installation at $21 per square foot. For the patio installation, the typical costs include: 1  According to PaveTech, the average concrete patio will cost around $700 using pavers and doing all of the work independently. 2  When professional concrete contractors and excavators are used the costs will obviously climb substantially.
And how much is a cheap patio? The cost to install a 200-square-foot concrete patio is about $740 to $840 on average, according to HomeWyse.com, an online reference for home projects. If you need, say, 800 inexpensive patio pavers for a 200-square-foot patio, that will generally equate to the price of a concrete patio. Not too bad, until you factor in the price of hiring someone to put them in the ground and any other extras your patio might need.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Patio Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Patio ranges between $4.81 - $6.37 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 
Cost to Install Cement Patio. While the cost of installing a cement patio can range from $5 to $11 per square foot, the average cost for the typical cement patio installation is generally closer to $8 per square foot. 
The overall cost of a concrete patio depends on the design and size of the patio. Prices usually start at around $6 per square foot up to $10 per square foot for a basic design without any colors or special designs. Adding colors or a pattern to the design can increase the price to $15 per square foot. Those opting for hand coloring, unique angles or a special design will see the price rise to more than $15 per square foot. The average price that homeowners pay for a concrete patio is around $2,800 to just over $4,000, but some homeowners report spending as little as $1,000 or as much as $6,500. A custom design typically costs more because those projects involve more work
A patio can be made from many different materials including stone, pavers, and concrete. For this discussion we will look at the requirements and costs associated with the installation of a 192 square foot (12'x16') concrete patio. For the patio installation, the typical costs include: 1  According to PaveTech, the average concrete patio will cost around $700 using pavers and doing all of the work independently. 2  When professional concrete contractors and excavators are used the costs will obviously climb substantially.
Basic concrete patio costs: $6 to $10 per square foot. Custom concrete patio costs: $10 to $15 per square foot. Advanced or complex designs: $15 or more per square foot. Average patio costs: $2,800 to $4,000. Those opting for hand coloring, unique angles or a special design will see the price rise to more than $15 per square foot. The average price that homeowners pay for a concrete patio is around $2,800 to just over $4,000, but some homeowners report spending as little as $1,000 or as much as $6,500. A custom design typically costs more because those projects involve more work
A concrete patio costs less than patios made of stone, brick, or tile. The simple truth is that patios made of natural materials are usually higher priced and require more intensive labor to install. Some concrete contractors estimate that a stamped concrete patio costs one-third less than the cost of other materials. The lower price tag combined with the wide array of patterns and colors available are some of the main draws of choosing a concrete patio. Below is a breakdown of the average patio price.
1 According to PaveTech, the average concrete patio will cost around $700 using pavers and doing all of the work independently. 2  When professional concrete contractors and excavators are used the costs will obviously climb substantially. 3  Traditionally, a patio at the size mentioned will cost roughly $2,000 to $4,000. For the patio installation, the typical costs include: 1 