Botulism is a serious illness that causes flaccid paralysis of muscles. It is caused by a neurotoxin, generically called botulinum toxin, produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum (and rarely by C. butyricum and C. baratii). Botulism facts. 1  The botulism neurotoxin is one of the most potent, lethal substances known. 2  Botulism is a disease caused by this neurotoxin (specifically A, B, E, or F type neurotoxin). 3  The neurotoxin is produced by bacteria called Clostridium botulinum. 4  The neurotoxin paralyzes muscles and can be deadly.
Clostridial gas gangrene is a highly lethal necrotizing soft tissue infection of skeletal muscle caused by toxin-and gas-producing Clostridium species. The synonym clostridial myonecrosis better describes both the causative agent and the target tissue. 
C difficile disease is caused by the overgrowth of the organism in the intestinal tract, primarily in the colon (Fig. 18-4). The organism appears unable to compete successfully in the normal intestinal ecosystem, but can compete when normal flora are disturbed by antibiotics, allowing overgrowth of C difficile. Clinical Manifestations. Botulism is a disease caused by the toxin of a diverse group of clostridia called C botulinum. This neurotoxin characteristically causes a symmetrical, descending paralysis (Fig. 18-3). The symptoms of botulism can occur in both the nervous system and the alimentary tract of the patient.
by Seth Cowan. Tetanus is a disease caused by the bacteria Clostridium tetani, a gram negative rod bacterium. C. tetani spores generally reside in manure rich soils after being passed from the normal gut flora of animals. 
Tetanus is a severe disease caused by the toxin of C tetani (Fig. 18-2). This organism grows in a wound and secretes a toxin that invades systemically and causes muscle spasms. The initial symptom is cramping and twitching of muscles around a wound. Clinical Manifestations. Botulism is a disease caused by the toxin of a diverse group of clostridia called C botulinum. This neurotoxin characteristically causes a symmetrical, descending paralysis (Fig. 18-3). The symptoms of botulism can occur in both the nervous system and the alimentary tract of the patient.
Clostridium is a genus of Gram-positive bacteria belonging to the Firmicutes. They are obligate anaerobes capable of producing endospores. Individual cells are rod-shaped, which gives them their name, from the Greek kloster (κλωστήρ) or spindle. 1 C. botulinum can produce botulinum toxin in food or wounds and can cause botulism. 2  Honey sometimes contains spores of C. botulinum, which may cause infant botulism in humans one year old and younger. 3  The toxin eventually paralyzes the infant's breathing muscles.
The bacteria Clostridium perfringens is one of the leading causes of foodborne gastroenteritis in the United States. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates, as many as one million individuals are affected by C. perfringens each year (Grass et al. 2013; Scallan et al. 
Clostridium contains around 100 species that include common free-living bacteria, as well as important pathogens. The five main species responsible for disease in humans are: 1  C. botulinum can produce botulinum toxin in food or wounds and can cause botulism. 1 C. botulinum can produce botulinum toxin in food or wounds and can cause botulism. 2  Honey sometimes contains spores of C. botulinum, which may cause infant botulism in humans one year old and younger. 3  The toxin eventually paralyzes the infant's breathing muscles.
Frequently asked questions. Clostridium perfringens (C. perfringens) is a spore-forming gram-positive bacterium that is found in many environmental sources as well as in the intestines of humans and animals. C. perfringens is commonly found on raw meat and poultry. Although C. perfringens may live normally in the human intestine, illness is caused by eating food contaminated with large numbers of C. perfringens bacteria that produce enough toxin in the intestines to cause illness.
Food poisoning. In botulism food poisoning, the toxin is produced by the vegetative cells of C botulinum in contaminated food, and preformed toxin then is ingested with the contaminated food. The incubation time can vary from a few hours to 10 days, but most commonly is 18–36 hours. Clinical Manifestations. Botulism is a disease caused by the toxin of a diverse group of clostridia called C botulinum. This neurotoxin characteristically causes a symmetrical, descending paralysis (Fig. 18-3). The symptoms of botulism can occur in both the nervous system and the alimentary tract of the patient.