Artificial skin is a product which can be used for temporary or permanent replacement of damaged skin. Classically, doctors use synthetic skin on burn victims. 
Artificial skin. Artificial skin is a synthetic (laboratory produced) substitute for human skin that can dramatically save the lives of severely burned patients. Skin, composed of two layers called epidermis (the outer layer) and dermis (the inner layer), is the largest human organ. New forms of artificial skin have been tested for use on patients with skin disorders, chronic wounds, and certain forms of cancer. Synthetic skin is also being used as a human tissue substitute for laboratory animals in product research.
The term artificial skin is used to describe any material used to replace (permanently or temporarily) or to mimic the dermal and epidermal layers of the skin. The primary current application of artificial skin is for the treatment of skin loss or damage on burn patients. Alternatively however, artificial skin is now being used in some places to treat patients with skin diseases, such as diabetic foot ulcers, and severe scarring [1]. Skin grafts are required for patients with skin damage that is too significant for self-repair. As stated before, one of the primary requirements for artificial skin is for the treatment of severe burn victims. There are three levels of burns; 1st, 2nd, and 3rd degree burns.
A German company has successfully grown bi-layer skin samples (both epidermis and dermis) in a lab and California researchers have successfully grown blood vessels from a skin sample [sources: Maugh and ScienceDaily ]. Scientists hope to produce a fully-functional, lab-produced artificial skin graft in the near future. For lots more information on amazing medical procedures and the science of skin, take a look at the links on the next page. Apparently, this texture is enough to trick skin cells in the body called fibroblasts to start generating human collagen on contact. As the body produces more and more collagen, the connective tissue begins to work its way up the artificial scaffolding, slowly building a new dermis.
Artificial skin refers to a collagen scaffold that induces regeneration of skin in mammals. The term was used in the late 1970s and early 1980s to describe a new treatment for massive burns. It was later discovered that treatment of deep skin wounds in adult animals and humans with this scaffold induces regeneration of the dermis.
Skin Replacement-Grafting and Synthetic Skin. Skin Replacement is a procedure for restoring SKIN to areas of the body where there has been extensive damage and loss of skin. BURNS, major trauma, surgery, varicose ulcers, and decubitus ulcers are among the conditions that require skin replacement. The main risk of skin replacement is graft failure, which can occur regardless of the graft source. Numerous factors contribute to graft success or failure. The graft may fail to develop an adequate blood supply or the match between the donor graft and the recipient site may be not quite right.