The agreement to begin CARICOM was signed on July 4,1973 at Chaguaramus in Trinidad and Tobago. Hence the name Treaty of Chaguaramus. Four countries were signatories to the tr … eaty namely: Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana and Jamaica. It became effective on August 1, 1973. What are the caricom countries? CARICOM Countries are Antigua & Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent an … d the Grenadines, Suriname and
A Revised Treaty of Chaguaramas establishing the Caribbean Community including the CARICOM Single Market and Economy (CSME) was signed by the CARICOM Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community on 5 July 2001 at their Twenty-Second Meeting of the Conference in Nassau, The Bahamas. Currently CARICOM has 15 full members, 5 associate members and 8 observers. All of the associate members are British overseas territories, and it is currently not established what the role of the associate members will be. The observers are states which engage in at least one of CARICOM's technical committee
CARICOM was established by the Treaty of Chaguaramas, which was signed on July 4, 1973. 
The CARICOM Single Market and Economy, also known as the Caribbean Single Market and Economy (CSME), is an integrated development strategy envisioned at the 10th Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) which took place in July 1989 in Grand Anse, Grenada. It is expected that by June 2014, all CARICOM nationals will have easier access to participating CSME Member States, and be able to fully exercise their rights to travel, work and seek out other opportunities as provided for under the CARICOM Single Market and Economy (CSME) arrangement.
Formation of CARICOM. Overview Let start by defining “CARICOM”. It stands for the Caribbean Community and Common Market. It was establish by the treated of Chaguaramas, which was signed by four countries, Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, Jamaica and Guyana and came into effect on August, 1973. A Revised Treaty of Chaguaramas, establishing the Caribbean Community including the CARICOM Single Market and Economy (CSME) was signed by the Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community on July 5 2001 at their Twenty-Second Meeting of the Conference in Nassau, Bahamas. -2-.
The Caribbean Community (CARICOM), originally the Caribbean Community and Common Market, was established by the Treaty of Chaguaramas which came into effect on 1 August 1973. The first four signatories were Barbados, Jamaica, Guyana and Trinidad & Tobago. Currently CARICOM has 15 full members, 5 associate members and 8 observers. All of the associate members are British overseas territories, and it is currently not established what the role of the associate members will be. The observers are states which engage in at least one of CARICOM's technical committees
CARICOM stands for the Caribbean Community and Common Market. It  was established in 1973 and is an organization of 15 Caribbean  dependencies and nations. What are the caricom countries? CARICOM Countries are Antigua & Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent an … d the Grenadines, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago.
0. Add comment. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM), originally the Caribbean Community and Common Market, was established by the Treaty of Chaguaramas which came into effect on 1 August 1973. The first four signatories were Barbados, Jamaica, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago. Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caribbean_Community. 