Inside your body there is an amazing protectio­n mechanism called the immune system. It is designed to defend you against millions of bacteria, microbes, viruses, toxins and parasites that would love to invade your body. None of these things are able to get in when your immune system is working, but the moment your immune system stops the door is wide open. Once you die it only takes a few weeks for these organisms to completely dismantle your body and carry it away, until all that's left is a skeleton.
Immune System The immune system is a network of cells, tissues, and organs that work together to protect the body from infection. Although scientists have learned much about the immune system, they continue to study how the body targets invading microbes, infected cells, and tumors while ignoring healthy tissues. 
Your immune system also relies upon specific structures in your body that provide a foundation for defense. The most important structures are the barriers between the inside of your body and the outside. These barriers keep unwanted organisms and molecules from entering your body where they can do damage. An excellent source of vitamin C is citrus fruit. Many vegetables are also excellent sources of vitamin C, such as broccoli, kale, bok choy, turnip greens, beet green, mustard greens, collard greens, Swiss chard, and asparagus. Many of the B-vitamins are also very important in supporting a healthy immune system.
Inflammation is one of the first responses of the immune system to infection. The symptoms of inflammation are redness, swelling, heat, and pain, which are caused by increased blood flow into tissue. Inflammation is produced by eicosanoids and cytokines, which are released by injured or infected cells. An evasion strategy used by several pathogens to avoid the innate immune system is to hide within the cells of their host (also called intracellular pathogenesis). Here, a pathogen spends most of its life-cycle inside host cells, where it is shielded from direct contact with immune cells, antibodies and complement.
Do your immune system a favor, and pack some more fruits and vegetables on your plate. They're loaded with nutrients, called antioxidants, that are good for you. Add more fruits and vegetables of any kind to your diet. It'll help your health. Some foods are higher in antioxidants than others, though. The three major antioxidant vitamins are beta-carotene, vitamin C, and vitamin E.
So, when we talk about the immune system, it is not one organ; it is really the types of immune cells, structures, and soluble factors, like cytokines, which are present throughout all your organs that constitute the immune system. And, your immune system gets help from your inflammatory response. An excellent source of vitamin C is citrus fruit. Many vegetables are also excellent sources of vitamin C, such as broccoli, kale, bok choy, turnip greens, beet green, mustard greens, collard greens, Swiss chard, and asparagus. Many of the B-vitamins are also very important in supporting a healthy
The cells of your immune system are found circulating in your bloodstream or in the lymph nodes, which are located throughout your body; therefore, the immune cells themselves are spread throughout your tissues and can travel quickly when called upon. An excellent source of vitamin C is citrus fruit. Many vegetables are also excellent sources of vitamin C, such as broccoli, kale, bok choy, turnip greens, beet green, mustard greens, collard greens, Swiss chard, and asparagus. Many of the B-vitamins are also very important in supporting a healthy immune system.
Zinc. Zinc is a trace element essential for cells of the immune system, and zinc deficiency affects the ability of T cells and other immune cells to function as they should. Caution: While it's important to have sufficient zinc in your diet (15–25 mg per day), too much zinc can inhibit the function of the immune system. Every part of your body, including your immune system, functions better when protected from environmental assaults and bolstered by healthy-living strategies such as these: Don't smoke. Eat a diet high in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, and low in saturated fat. Exercise regularly.
The immune system is a system of many biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against disease. To function properly, an immune system must detect a wide variety of agents, known as pathogens, from viruses to parasitic worms, and distinguish them from the organism's own healthy tissue. An evasion strategy used by several pathogens to avoid the innate immune system is to hide within the cells of their host (also called intracellular pathogenesis). Here, a pathogen spends most of its life-cycle inside host cells, where it is shielded from direct contact with immune cells, antibodies and complement.
The lymph, or lymphatic, system is a major part of the immune system. It's a network of lymph nodes and vessels. Lymphatic vessels are thin tubes that branch, like blood vessels, throughout the body. They carry a clear fluid called lymph. Lymph contains tissue fluid, waste products, and immune system cells. Disorders of the Immune System. Your immune system is your body's defense against infections and other harmful invaders. Without it, illnesses from bacteria or viruses, for example, would be constant. Your immune system is made up of special cells, tissues, and organs that work together to protect you.