B) The three genes are linked. C) The first gene is linked but the other two are not. D) The first gene is assorting independently from the other two that are linked. E) The first gene is located 14.4 units apart from the other two.
Genes in the same chromosome are passed on together as a unit. Such genes are said to be linked. For example, the A and B alleles (in the illustration below) will both be passed on together if the lower chromosome is inherited. A and B are linked due to their occurrence in the same chromosome. Similarly, a and b are linked in the other chromosome. Which chromosome from each of the 23 homologous pairs of both parents is inherited is a matter of chance. There are 8,324,608 possible combinations of 23 chromosome pairs. As a result, two gametes virtually never have exactly the same combination of chromosomes.
Notice that the A and B genes went to one side of the room and the a and b genes went to the other side of the room. These genes were linked: A with B and on the other stick, a with b on the other stick. B. They are located close together on the same chromosome. C. The number of genes in a cell is greater than the number of chromosomes. D. Genes align that way during metaphase I of meiosis. E. Alleles are paired together during meiosis
In Biology. When genes are linked, they are very likely to be inherited together-meaning that once one gene has been inherited, the chance that the other will be is not 50% (meaning it … is not random like other genes). Because linked gene are not affected by crossing over. A recessive gene will not be expressed if there is a dominant gene for that allele present. This means that if a female (XX) is expressing an x-linked recessive trait, she must have two recessive genes for that trait; therefore she inherited the trait from both parents.
The unusual allele of the first gene is inherited with either of the others about 50% of the time. However, the unusual alleles of the other two genes are inherited together 14.4% of the time. 
A. Chromosomes are unbreakable B. They are located close together on the same chromosome C. The number of genes in a cell is greater than the number of chromosomes D. Genes align that way during metaphase I of meiosis E. Alleles are paired together during meiosis. 1 following. 2 answers 2. Report Abuse. B. They are located close together on the same chromosome. C. The number of genes in a cell is greater than the number of chromosomes. D. Genes align that way during metaphase I of meiosis. E. Alleles are paired together during meiosis
A) They are located close together on the same chromosome. B) The number of genes in a cell is greater than the number of chromosomes. C) Chromosomes are unbreakable. D) Alleles are paired together during meiosis. E) Genes align that way during metaphase I of meiosis. C) The first gene is linked but the other two are not. D) The first gene is assorting independently from the other two that are linked. E) The first gene is located 14.4 units apart from the other two.
Genetic linkage is the tendency of c … ertain loci or alleles to be inherited together. Genetic loci that are physically close to one another on the same chromosome tend to stay together during meiosis, and are thus genetically linked. 6 people found this useful. Yes your genes are inherited from your parents. This is becquse when the egg and sperm meet, and the egg is fertilized and the offspring (childs) cells are formed by the … union. the child will have half the chromosomes of the father and half the chromosomes of the mother.
This, in turn, causes these alleles to be inherited together instead of assorting independently. Genetic linkage is a violation of the Mendelian principle of independent assortment. In short, whenever two genes are linked because of their location on a chromosome, their alleles will not segregate independently during gamete formation. As a result, test crosses involving alleles of linked genes will yield phenotypic ratios that stray from the classic Mendelian ratios.