The Normandy landings (codenamed Operation Neptune) were the landing operations on 6 June 1944 (termed D-Day) of the Allied invasion of Normandy in Operation Overlord during World War II. 
The Invasion of Normandy was the invasion by and establishment of Western Allied forces in Normandy, during Operation Overlord in 1944 during World War II; the largest amphibious invasion to ever take place. D-Day, the day of the initial assaults, was Tuesday 6 June 1944. 
World War II. Allies invade France. On this day in 1944, Supreme Allied Commander General Dwight D. Eisenhower gives the go-ahead for the largest amphibious military operation in history: Operation Overlord, code named D-Day, the Allied invasion of northern France. By daybreak, 18,000 British and American parachutists were already on the ground
D-Day is another name for the invasion of Normandy in which the Allied forces attacked the German forces in a place called Normandy on the coast of France on June 6, 1944. There were some 156,000 Allied troops that invaded that day. It was a turning point in the war. In order to truly attack Germany, the Allies would have to invade in the North. This is what happened on D-Day. D-Day was the Allied invasion that allowed the Western Allies to attack and (with major help from Soviet pressure from the East) finally defeat Germany.
The term D-Day is generally used to refer to the Allied invasion of France on June 6, 1944. The term itself actually refers to any date established for the start of specific … military action.During World War 2, the British Army had fought along side the French, Dutch, and Belgian armies in 1940. The D-Day Normandy Invasion's success was the ultimate KEY to the Allies's victory against Nazi, Germany. The Normandy Landing's success was vital because it spearhead … ed the Western Front in Europe. This played the most sigificant role in the War in Europe. There is your final answer.
The best known D-Day is 6 June 1944. This was the beginning of the Allied invasion of Europe. It began with the landing at Normandy, France. Codenamed Operation Overlord, the invasion saw the largest amphibious assault in history in an effort to gain a toehold in Nazi-occupied France. It included British, Canadian, French and American forces.
(Answer #5). D-day refers to the allied forces' invasion at Normandy on June 6, 1944 during World War II. It is widely regarded as the single most important event in WWII and led to its conclusion in Europe. It resulted in the freedom of France. In order to truly attack Germany, the Allies would have to invade in the North. This is what happened on D-Day. D-Day was the Allied invasion that allowed the Western Allies to attack and (with major help from Soviet pressure from the East) finally defeat Germany.
1. D-Day was the start of Operation 'Overlord' - the Allied invasion of Occupied Europe. EA 51048. Troops of the US 7th Corps wading ashore on Utah Beach. On D-Day, 6 June 1944, Allied forces launched a combined naval, air and land assault on Nazi-occupied France. Codenamed Operation 'Overlord', the Allied landings on the Normandy beaches marked the start of a long and costly campaign to liberate north-west Europe from German occupation.
D-Day is important for World War II because it was the main Allied invasion of continental Europe. It was this invasion that allowed the Allies to finally defeat Germany. In order for the Allies to defeat Germany, there would have to be an invasion of Europe. In order to truly attack Germany, the Allies would have to invade in the North. This is what happened on D-Day. D-Day was the Allied invasion that allowed the Western Allies to attack and (with major help from Soviet pressure from the East)
D-Day was born in the immediate aftermath of America’s entry into the war, and agreement on a 'Germany first' strategy. From the outset the Americans pushed for a cross-Channel invasion of north-west Europe (later code-named Operation 'Overlord') as the most direct way to engage German forces. 