iPhone 5 won't turn back on after dying. 8609 Views 2 Replies Latest reply: Nov 3, 2013 9:22 PM by haiwolfie. Level 1 (0 points). I recently bought an used iPhone 5, and it came with a non-apple charger, which i used for about a week. I recently bought an Apple charger, and I use that one now. My phone dies incredibly fast, way faster than my 4s. It takes forever to charge and it doesnt keep charge for very long. I charge it to 100% and three hours later it's dead without me even using it! Anyways, it died last night and I started charging it about 30 minutes ago and nothings happening. The screen is still black and the little battery logo thing doesn't even pop up
I agree with Peter. I have an iPhone 5 and a few other apple products, and it takes a very long time, even longer than my macbook to power up from a depleted battery. My friend has a Samsung Galaxy S3 and it powers up the instant she plugs it into a wall from a dead battery. Very inconvenient. Still love apple though...... The answer to take away from this discussion is that it is normal for an iPhone to take up to 15 minutes at times to turn on after it completely dies so whenever possible, charge your phone before it reaches 0%. Level 6 (19,100 points). Paul, your response is totally off the mark.
add a comment |. up vote 0 down vote. The reason this takes some extra time is that your iOS device will not turn back on from dying completely because it must charge up to 5% first. This is normal. There is no way I am aware of to disable this function. If I plug it into a wall socket it takes about 3-5 minutes (it shows the red battery with power symbol below) to turn back on, but if I plug it into my laptop it understandably takes longer. Occasionally once it has finally powered back up the battery percent will be more than 1%.
After my iPhone dies it takes forever to turn back on. So I have an iPhone 3GS and every time it dies, I'll plug it up to the charger. It won't turn on for 3 to 4 hours and when it does, it will have as little as 5% on it. Does anyone know why it does this? Does anyone know why?!? So I have an iPhone 3GS and every time it dies, I'll plug it up to the charger. It won't turn on for 3 to 4 hours and when it does, it will have as little as 5% on it.
With the amount of iPhone’s that we see for repair every day it is very common to see an iPhone that won’t charge that needs an charging port repair or an iPhone that has died and won’t come back on, which is really common and normally requires a simple battery replacement. 
Next. So I have an iPhone 3GS and every time it dies, I'll plug it up to the charger. It won't turn on for 3 to 4 hours and when it does, it will have as little as 5% on it. Does anyone know why it does this? Does anyone know why?!? So I have an iPhone 3GS and every time it dies, I'll plug it up to the charger. It won't turn on for 3 to 4 hours and when it does, it will have as little as 5% on it.
O.P. So when my battery goes completely flat (0%) and the iphone turns off. When I plug it into charge it takes up to two hours to turn back on! You'd also think that after two hours of charging and not turning on, it would be almost 100% battery, but when it's back on it's only like 15% battery. Since it takes forever to turn back on I avoid running it down at all costs. But Apple do say to run it down to 0% at least once a month. When I charge it it's always around 15/20% anyway.