Click the link for a complete range of SLS-Free products). Both Sodium Lauryl Sulfate (SLS) and its close relative Sodium Laureth Sulfate (SLES) are commonly used in many soaps, shampoos, detergents, toothpastes and other products that we expect to foam up. Both chemicals are very effective foaming agents, chemically known as surfactants. SLS and SLES are esters of Sulphuric acid-SLS is also known as Sulfuric acid monododecyl ester sodium salt, however there are over 150 different names by which it is known-see them here. In fact, SLES is commonly contaminated with dioxane, a known carcinogen. Although SLES is somewhat less irritating than Sodium Lauryl Sulfate, it cannot be metabolised by the liver and its effects are therefore much longer-lasting
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10 was released in July 2006, and is also supported by the major hardware vendors. Service pack 4 was released in April 2011. SLES 10 shares a common codebase with SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop 10 —Novell's desktop distribution for business use—and other SUSE Linux Enterprise products. SLES has been developed based on SUSE Linux by a small team led by Marcus Kraft and Bernhard Kaindl as principal developer who was supported by Joachim Schroeder. schröder
SLES 11 SP4 was released July 16th, 2015, which is developed from a common code base with SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop and other SUSE Linux Enterprise products. SLES has been developed based on SUSE Linux by a small team led by Marcus Kraft and Bernhard Kaindl as principal developer who was supported by Joachim Schroeder. schröder
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) is a Linux-based operating system developed by SUSE. SLES has been developed based on SUSE Linux by a small team led by Marcus Kraft and Bernhard Kaindl as principal developer who was supported by Joachim Schroeder. schröder
Both Sodium Laureth Sulfate (SLES) and its close relative Sodium Lauryl Sulfate (SLS) are commonly used in many soaps, shampoos, detergents, toothpastes and other products that we expect to foam up. To find hair, personal and household products without ANY SLS or other harmful chemicals, please click this link-SLS-free products. The use of sodium laureth sulfate in childrens products is particularly worrying.
Sodium laureth sulfate (SLS), or sodium lauryl ether sulfate (SLES), is an anionic detergent and surfactant found in many personal care products (soaps, shampoos, toothpaste etc.). SLES is an inexpensive and very effective foaming agent. SLES, SLS, ALS and sodium pareth sulfate are surfactants that are used in many cosmetic products for their cleaning and emulsifying properties. They behave similarly to soap. Some products containing SLES have been found to also contain traces (up to 279 ppm) of 1,4-dioxane; this is formed as a by-product during the ethoxylation step of its synthesis. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration recommends that these levels be monitored.
SLES has been developed based on SUSE Linux by a small team led by Marcus Kraft and Bernhard Kaindl as principal developer who was supported by Joachim Schroeder. Schröder it was first released On october, 31 2000 as a version FOR Ibm/s 390 mainframe. machines SLES has been developed based on SUSE Linux by a small team led by Marcus Kraft and Bernhard Kaindl as principal developer who was supported by Joachim Schroeder. schröder