Sherie is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced She-rie. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Sherie Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sherie has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sherie to other names. Sherie is a variant spelling of Cherri. Variants of the name Sherie include Sherre
Sherie /sher-ie/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Sherie's name origins are Old German, French and English, and the meaning of the name Sherie is free man; dear. Sherie is an alternate form of Charlotte (Old German). Sherie is also a form of Cher (French). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Sherie for girls. Sherie was first listed in 1950-1959 and reached its peak rank of #829 in the U.S. during the years 1960-1969, but is not ranked currently.
The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME. You are spiritually intense and can sting or charm. Your name brings love and new starts into life and attracts money. In business, you are the creator and promoter of original ideas and usually enjoy considerable financial success.You have an eventful, exciting life
Sheri is a female given name, from the French for beloved, and may refer to: 1  Sheri Anderson, American TV writer. 2  Sheri Forde, Canadian reporter. 3  Sheri Graner Ray, video game specialist. 
Sherie in Nautical Flags. French names have similar origins to those of other old-world European nations. They are often derivations of place names or trade names, or have their basis in history, mythology, religion or nature. They may also be created names. View the Sherie Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sherie has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sherie to other names. Sherie is a variant spelling of Cherri.
Sheri /she-ri/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Sheri's name origins are Old German, French and English, and the name Sheri means free man; dear. Sheri is an alternate form of Charlotte (Old German). Sheri is also a variation of Cher (French). Sheri is also used as a variation of Sherry (English, French). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Sheri for girls. Sheri entered the list in 1940-1949 and reached its top rank of #148 in the U.S. during the years 1960-1969, but is not listed currently. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014).
English Meaning: The name Sherry is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Sherry is: From the French 'cheri' meaning darling or dear one. Also, from the white meadow. American Meaning: The name Sherry is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Sherry is: From the French 'cheri' meaning darling or dear one. Also, from the white meadow.