He was considered one of the top recruits for 2013. He attended Travis High School in Fort Bend, Texas, and played college basketball for the University of Kentucky along with his twin brother, Aaron Harrison. On April 9, 2015, Harrison declared for the NBA draft, forgoing his final two years of college eligibility. He was joined alongside his twin brother Aaron and fellow Kentucky teammates Karl-Anthony Towns, Willie Cauley-Stein, Trey Lyles, Devin Booker, and Dakari Johnson.
Harrison twins' dad: Coaches with authenticity wanted. Before Aaron and Andrew Harrison, two of the nation's top high school basketball players, narrowed their list of potential colleges to Kentucky and Maryland, five schools had made the cut for the twin brothers. Post to Facebook. Cancel Sen
View photo. Kentucky's Aaron Harrison, left, and Andrew Harrison watch the NCAA college basketball tournament …. Former Kentucky guard Andrew Harrison worked out for the Indiana Pacers this week and said NBA teams have taken particular interest in two issues when evaluating him. Andrew Harrison is seen as a late-first, or early second-round pick by most mock drafts. Aaron Harrison is viewed as a second-round pick at best and possibly an undrafted free agent. - - - - - - -. [Kyle Ringo is the assistant editor of The Dagger on Yahoo Sports
As Aaron and Andrew Harrison announced Oct. 4 at THS during a press conference televised by ESPN2 and ESPNU, they will play for one the sport’s true traditional powerhouses. With their parents at their side and a supportive crowd behind in the bleachers the twins announced their commitment to the University of Kentucky. BASKETBALL: Travis' Harrison twins commit to Kentucky By Jack Marrion jmarrion@hcnonline.com Houston Community Newspapers. Travis High School’s Harrison twins formed one of the most prolific tandems of college basketball recruits in recent memory.
Harrison driving on Kasey Hill during the 2013 McDonald's All-American Boys Game. Harrison was widely regarded as a top five player in the class of 2013 with Andrew Wiggins, Jabari Parker, Julius Randle, and brother Aaron. On March 9, 2013, Harrison helped the Fort Bend Travis Tigers defeat South Grand Prairie 46-38 to win the Class 5A state title in Texas. On April 9, 2015, Harrison declared for the NBA draft, forgoing his final two years of college eligibility. He was joined alongside his twin brother Aaron and fellow Kentucky teammates Karl-Anthony Towns, Willie Cauley-Stein, Trey Lyles, Devin Booker, and Dakari Johnson.
Twins are known to play games with confused onlookers -- even if they're a couple of NBA Draft hopefuls. Former Kentucky guard Aaron Harrison was. Former Kentucky guard Aaron Harrison was scheduled to workout for the Charlotte Hornets on Monday, but his brother Andrew showed up in his place after Aaron instead opted to attend a workout with the Los Angeles Lakers.
UK Harrison twins face best friend vs. Kansas State. Kentucky's Harrison twins will play against best friend Wesley Iwundu of K-State in the NCAA opener. 
The Harrison brothers are intimately familiar with each other's game after having played together for so many years. The identical 6-foot-6 twins, Aaron and Andrew, who left Kentucky after their sophomore season, are ready to finally be separated by their likely selections in June's NBA draft. After years of playing with his twin brother, Aaron Harrison said we're excited about separating to play in the NBA. 
Harrison twins pass on NBA Draft, returning to Kentucky. Sports Network. Facebook 0 Twitter 0 Email Print. Lexington, KY (SportsNetwork.com) - Aaron and Andrew Harrison have decided against entering the 2014 NBA Draft and will return to Kentucky for their sophomore seasons. The twins join Willie Cauley-Stein, Marcus Lee, Alex Poythress and Dakari Johnson, all of whom bypassed the NBA Draft to return for the 2014-15 campaign. I'm excited about Aaron and Andrew's decision to return for next season, Kentucky head coach John Calipari said.