Skin. The skin is the largest organ in the human body. Its main job is to maintain the body's temperature, which means that sweat is created to cool the body, and goosebumps or raised hair occur to trap heat in the body. Along with sweat glands, the skin contains oil glands. 
Report Abuse. Hi Sophi, the main organs of the body that the human beings can't live without are: 1 - the heart (the blood pumper) it lies in the left part of the thoracic cage in the pericardium. 2 - the brain (the neural center) it lies in the skull, it regulates body activities.
Organise the organs in our interactive body. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external websites BBC SCIENCE is provided for general information only, and should not be treated as a substitute for the medical advice of your own doctor, psychiatrist or any other health care professional. 
The main tissue is the one that is unique for the specific organ. For example, main tissue in the heart is the myocardium, while sporadic are the nerves, blood, connective etc.. Functionally related organs often cooperate to form whole organ systems. There are 10 major organ systems in the human body. List of Organs in human body: 1  Heart. 2  Brain.
Organs in the human body: Functions, location, definition of organs. An organ is a structure that contains at least two different types of tissue functioning together for a common purpose. There are many different organs in the body: the liver, kidneys, heart, even your skin is an organ. Usually there is a main tissue and sporadic tissues. For example, main tissue in the heart is the myocardium, while sporadic are the nerves, blood, connective etc.. Functionally related organs often cooperate to form whole organ systems. There are 10 major organ systems in the human body. List of Organs in human body: 1  Heart. 2  Brain.
Spleen is the largest lymphatic organ in the human body. Lymphatic or lymphoid organs are the major parts of the immune system of our body. Function of the immune system is to protect the host (i.e. human body) from the invasion of foreign organisms. Organs Of The Body. There are almost 78 organs in a human body which vary according to their sizes, functions or actions. An organ is a collection of millions of cells which group together to perform single functions in a our body.
The General Assembly is the main deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of the UN. All 193 Member States of the UN are represented in the General Assembly, making it the only UN body with universal representation. The main organs of the UN are the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council, the Trusteeship Council, the International Court of Justice, and the UN Secretariat. All were established in 1945 when the UN was founded. UN Photo/Amanda Voisard.
Out of these 78 organs of a male or female body, skin is the largest organ with respect to its size and weight. The major organ in the body of human beings is the brain which is primarily responsible for performing all the functions and actions of the body. Other major organs of the body are given in the following list with names, diseases, location and functions. 1  Adrenal Glands. 2  Anus. Organs Of The Body. There are almost 78 organs in a human body which vary according to their sizes, functions or actions. An organ is a collection of millions of cells which group together to perform single functions in a our body.
Main Organs. The main organs of the UN are the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council, the Trusteeship Council, the International Court of Justice, and the UN Secretariat. All were established in 1945 when the UN was founded. UN Photo/Amanda Voisard.