The innate immune system, also known as the nonspecific immune system, is an important subsystem of the overall immune system that comprises the cells and mechanisms that defend the host from infection by other organisms. 1 The identification and removal of foreign substances present in organs, tissues, the blood and lymph, by specialised white blood cells. 2  Activation of the adaptive immune system through a process known as antigen presentation. 3  Acting as a physical and chemical barrier to infectious agents.
innate immunity, n the ability of the body to protect itself against foreign organisms and toxins. The defense mechanisms of skin, white blood cells, macrophages, stomach acid, and chemicals in the bloodstream are all part of innate immunity.n. Immunity that occurs naturally as a result of a person's genetic constitution or physiology and does not arise from a previous infection or vaccination. Also called genetic immunity, inherent immunity, native immunity, natural immunity, nonspecific immunity.
The cells of the innate system recognize and respond to pathogens in a generic way, but, unlike the adaptive immune system (which is found only in vertebrates), it does not confer long-lasting or protective immunity to the host. 1 The identification and removal of foreign substances present in organs, tissues, the blood and lymph, by specialised white blood cells. 2  Activation of the adaptive immune system through a process known as antigen presentation. 3  Acting as a physical and chemical barrier to infectious agents.
and is not due to prior sensitization to an antigen; generally. • Innate Immunity: Immunity that is naturally present and is not due to prior sensitization to an antigen; generally nonspecific.t is in contrast to acquired/adaptive immunit
Webster Medical Dictionary. • Innate Immunity: Immunity that is naturally present and is not due to prior sensitization to an antigen; generally nonspecific. It is in contrast to acquired/adaptive immunity.• Innate Immunity: Immunity that is naturally present and is not due to prior sensitization to an antigen; generally nonspecific.
Naturally acquired immunity is obtained by the development of antibodies resulting from an attack of infectious disease or by the transmission of antibodies from the mother through the placenta to the fetus or to the infant through colostrum and breast milk.cquired immunity. n. Immunity obtained either from the development of antibodies in response to exposure to an antigen, as from vaccination or an attack of an infectious disease, or from the transmission of antibodies, as from mother to fetus through the placenta or the injection of antiserum.
• Innate Immunity: • Innate Immunity: Immunity that is naturally present and is not due to prior sensitization to an antigen; generally nonspecific. It is in contrast to acquired/adaptive immunity.• Innate Immunity: Immunity that is naturally present and is not due to prior sensitization to an antigen; generally nonspecific.
Immunity that is naturally present. • Innate Immunity: Immunity that is naturally present and is not due to prior sensitization to an antigen; generally nonspecific.t is in contrast to acquired/adaptive immunity
Innate immunity: Immunity that is naturally present and is not due to prior sensitization to an antigen from, for example, an infection or vaccination. Since it is not stimulated by specific antigens, innate immunity is generally nonspecific. It is in contrast to acquired immunity. Also called natural immunity. 
Adaptive immunity refers to antigen-specific immune response. The adaptive immune response is more complex than the innate. The antigen first must be processed and recognized. Once an antigen has been recognized, the adaptive immune system creates an army of immune cells specifically designed to attack that antigen.