Maybe that routine was going to work perfectly well exactly as is for another 2 weeks or 4 weeks or 8 weeks or more. So, rather than recommend how often you should make a change, I think it’s a much better idea to tell you when NOT to make a change.
For the best results, you should be switching up your fitness routine all the time. For some this may be every day, for others every three days, and still others every three weeks. To figure out when and how is exactly right for you to change your routine, here are a few guidelines. When to Change Your Exercise Routine.
If you are trying to grow muscle, it gets really hard if you aren't eating enough. If you still stall, think about switching your routine up completely. Then, commit to this routine for at least 6-8 weeks. If nothing happens in 6-8 weeks, it's not the training, it's the diet or the rest.
Basically whenever you feel like your body is getting used to the workout, and it is becoming more difficult to get that sore feeling, you need to switch it up. Keep your body guessing. most people I know say that you should stick to a routine until you start to plateau.
Everyone needs a change from their workout. If you continue to follow a workout without any change, it can place you in a tough plateau to break. Aside from that, it can hinder your results and make your workouts tedious. Your body is constantly trying to adapt to the environment in order to survive.
Sometimes it is advisable to change the number of workouts you have per week to prevent adaptations from occurring. If you usually perform 4 workouts per week and you have hit a plateau, try doing 3 workouts per week for 1-3 weeks.
Everyone needs a change from their workout. If you continue to follow a workout without any change, it can place you in a tough plateau to break. Aside from that, it can hinder your results and make your workouts tedious. Plateaus occur in training due to a phenomenon known as homeostasis.
Why not switch it to a barbell curl, change the routine. Because like you said your muscle will be adapted to that workout, and when you change it up it will be worked a different way and tear the muscle fibers MUCH EASIER because it is a new movement.
Change up two of those every four to six weeks, and your workout will keep your scale moving in the right direction, he says. Still, that doesn’t mean you should perform the same thing day after day for four to six weeks before moving on to something else.