A water pressure regulator, if you have one, is usually located where the main water line comes into the house and after the main shut off valve. This way if you need to work on or change the water pressure regulator you can simply shut off the water main to do so. To determine if you need a water pressure regulator test the water pressure of the main water supply to your house. You can buy a pressure gauge for a local hardware or home improvement store.
What is a pressure regulator? A water pressure regulator is a plumbing valve that reduces the water pressure coming from the main water line into the house. This valve brings down the pressure to a safe level before the water reaches any plumbing fixtures inside the home. To determine if you need a water pressure regulator test the water pressure of the main water supply to your house. You can buy a pressure gauge for a local hardware or home improvement store.
Unfortunately, water pressure regulators-like any mechanical device-don't last forever. If you are experiencing the symptoms above and you already have a pressure regulator, it's worth testing your water pressure again, to see if the regulator is operating properly. The video below shows how to do this. This water pressure is often well over 100 psi, and too often over 150 psi. However, the maximum recommended pressure for a residence is 80 psi. You can easily test your water pressure with a gauge, such as the one pictured here, that screws on to a hose bibb.
the health of your pressure regulator. Excess water pressure can cause leaks, fixture damage, and result in wasted water. This video demonstrates how to easily and inexpensively check your household water pressure. If your water pressure is over 80psi, a pressure regulator is called for to prevent this damage and water waste. If you already have a pressure regulator, you'll still want to check the pressure as these devices do wear out and fail. Their failure is often subtle. 
An adjustable spring loaded diaphragm inside a water pressure regulator reduces the pressure of the water in the line within the valve body. Water coming into the valve is constricted and then released at a reduced pressure. To determine if you need a water pressure regulator test the water pressure of the main water supply to your house. You can buy a pressure gauge for a local hardware or home improvement store.
A pressure regulator is a valve that automatically cuts off the flow of a liquid or gas at a certain pressure. Regulators are used to allow high-pressure fluid supply lines or tanks to be reduced to safe and/or usable pressures for various applications. A pressure regulator's primary function is to match the flow of gas through the regulator to the demand for gas placed upon the system. If the load flow decreases, then the regulator flow must decrease also
A water pressure regulator is a plumbing valve that reduces the water pressure coming from the main water line into the house. To determine if you need a water pressure regulator test the water pressure of the main water supply to your house. You can buy a pressure gauge for a local hardware or home improvement store.
If there's not enough water pressure, you can adjust the pressure regulator. If you didn't have a pressure-reducing valve installed between the municipal water system and your house, the water pressure would break all your water lines and appliances. The pressure in a municipal system can be as much as 200 psi to service fire hydrants and high-rise buildings, but the pressure in a typical residence is usually around 50 psi. The step-down regulator near your water meter or just outside the house is usually factory-set.