Natural gas is a fossil fuel formed when layers of decomposing plant and animal matter are exposed to intense heat and pressure over thousands of years. The energy that the plants originally obtained from the sun is stored in the form of chemical bonds in natural gas. Natural gas is found in deep underground rock formations or associated with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds and as methane clathrates. Petroleum is another resource and fossil fuel found in close proximity to, and with
Natural gas, a domestically produced gaseous fuel, is readily available through the utility infrastructure. Whether produced via conventional or renewable methods, this clean-burning alternative fuel must be compressed or liquefied for use in vehicles. 
Natural gas is one of the cleanest, safest, and most useful forms of energy in our day-to-day lives. Natural gas is a hydrocarbon, which means it is made up of compounds of hydrogen and carbon. The simplest hydrocarbon is methane; it contains one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms. Natural gas can be found by itself or in association with oil. Alberta s non-conventional natural gas potential includes coal bed methane (CBM), also known as natural gas in coal. The volume of this natural gas source, which is found in coal seams, is estimated to be about 500 Tcf of gas-in-place.
| Photo courtesy of New Haven Clean Cities Coalition. Natural gas is an abundant resource across the United States, and new discoveries and extraction methods have led to a dramatic rise in shale gas development -- making America the world’s leading natural gas producer. As part of a comprehensive all-of-the-above energy strategy, the Energy Department is committed to safe development of America’s natural gas resources.
While natural gas is formed primarily of methane, it can also include ethane, propane, butane and pentane. It is one of the gases that are formed by the same formation of fossil fuels. The main ingredient in natural gas is methane, a gas (or compound) composed of one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms. Natural gas supplies about 23.8 percent of the world's energy. Gas is extracted by drilling wells deep into the ground, through many layers or rock to reach the gas deposits
Natural Gas. Natural gas provides 24% of our energy. Unlike oil, almost two-thirds of which is imported from foreign sources, our natural gas comes primarily from North America. The annual volume of consumption is projected to rise from 22.5 trillion cubic feet (tcf) in 2009 to about 23.5 tcf in 2030
In the United States, most natural gas is burned as a fuel. In 2012 about 30% of the energy consumed across the nation was obtained from natural gas (1). It was used to generate electricity, heat buildings, fuel vehicles, heat water, bake foods, power industrial furnaces, and even run air conditioners! About 21% of the natural gas consumed in the United States during 2013 went to homes (1). This gas is delivered to homes through pipelines or in tanks as CNG (compressed natural gas). Most of the natural gas consumed in homes is used for space heating and water heating.
Natural gas is an energy source often used for heating, cooking, and electricity generation. It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as a chemical feedstock in the manufacture of plastics and other commercially important organic chemicals. Natural gas is found in deep underground rock formations or associated with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds and as methane clathrates. Petroleum is another resource and fossil fuel found in close proximity to, and with natural gas.
Natural gas is often informally referred to simply as gas, especially when compared to other energy sources such as oil or coal. However, it is not to be confused with gasoline, especially in North America, where the term gasoline is often shortened in colloquial usage to gas. Natural gas is found in deep underground rock formations or associated with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds and as methane clathrates. Petroleum is another resource and fossil fuel found in close proximity to, and with natural gas.