However, missing dialysis means more toxins will build up in the body so as to the patient becoming sick. Generally, the exact answer of how long can renal failure patients live without renal failure depends on the kidney function that they still have. If the person is passing a reasonable amount of urine, he may be able to survive a few weeks to over a month, otherwise he may survive only a few days to two weeks. 
And usually the longer time that patients on dialysis, the more likely they die from these problems. Therefore, how long can a person live on dialysis becomes a hot topic among kidney failure patients. Actually, how long can a person live on dialysis depends on many factors. In clinic, life span of dialysis patients varies greatly from case to case. And it may range from several days to decade
Average life expectancy on dialysis is 5-10 years, however, many patients have lived well on dialysis for 20 or even 30 years. Talk to your healthcare team about how to take care of yourself and stay healthy on dialysis. If your kidneys have failed, you will need to have dialysis treatments for your whole life unless you are able to get a kidney transplant. Life expectancy on dialysis can vary depending on your other medical conditions and how well you follow your treatment plan.
Q: I am a kidney failure patient caused by diabetes. And I also have a heart problems. I am on dialysis for 2 years. Can you tell me how long will kidney failure people live with dialysis? A: On average, the patient would live 3~5 years since she or he starts dialysis. Some researches show that the average life span of patients is less than five years on dialysis. Diabetes raises that mortality rate about 3% for a total of 25%. Among all death causes of Chronic Renal Failure, heart failure is in the first place. 
The data show that 70- to 74-year-olds on dialysis can expect to live 3.6 years on average, compared with 12.2 years for all Americans of that age. For 75- to 79-year-olds, the figures dropped to 3.1 years versus 9.2 years. 
How long you can live on dialysis, and how well you do, will depend on a number of things, including how healthy you are, your attitude, your quality of healthcare and how much you take an active role in your care. Sign up for no-cost Kidney Smart® education class to learn more about kidney disease. 
The life expectancy of a person receiving a dialysis treatment is anywhere between 5 to 7 years; however cases have emerged where a person lives a long lifetime while receiving dialysis treatment. Someone with a kidney disorder should highly consider being placed on a list for a transplant. Out of that 31 million, 300,000 have stage 5 chronic kidney disease or failure, and are on some type of dialysis; 400,000 are at stage 4, and around 7.5 million are at stage 3.
Those undergoing kidney dialysis treatment possess a very general, average life expectancy of four years. But many scenarios come into play with some patients enjoying a bountiful life for as long as 25 years. We do not yet know how long patients on dialysis will live, says the National Kidney Foundation. We think that some dialysis patients may live as long as people without kidney failure.. Seventy-one percent of patients between 20 and 44 years old will survive through five years, 44 percent of those between 45 and 64 will live through five years of treatment, and just 21 percent of dialysis patients between 65 and 74 years of age will survive through five years.
Some statistics show that the survival rate of diabetes on dialysis is 71 percent through one year, 29 percent through five years and 11 percent after 10 years. How long can people on dialysis with ESRD and diabetes live is affected by the following factors. Other health issues. Infection is commonly seen in dialysis patients. It is an important death cause of the patients. Age. Younger people with diabetes and ESRD on dialysis can live longer than older patients. For example, 88 percent of those under the age of 20 will live through five years of dialysis. Just 21 percent of dialysis patients between 65 and 74 years of age will survive through five years. Treatment