From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Dysexecutive syndrome (DES) consists of a group of symptoms, usually resulting from brain damage, that fall into cognitive, behavioural and emotional categories and tend to occur together. Symptoms of DES fall into three broad categories: cognitive, emotional and behavioural. Many of the symptoms can be seen as a direct result of impairment to the central executive component of working memory, which is responsible for attentional control and inhibition.
The syndrome was once known as frontal lobe syndrome, however dysexecutive syndrome is preferred because it emphasizes the functional pattern of deficits (the symptoms) over the location of the syndrome in the frontal lobe, which is often not the only area affected. Classification code in ICD-10 - F07. Symptoms of DES fall into three broad categories: cognitive, emotional and behavioural. Many of the symptoms can be seen as a direct result of impairment to the central executive component of working memory, which is responsible for attentional control and inhibition.
Product Description. The term ‘Dysexecutive Syndrome’ (DES) includes disorders of planning, organisation, problem solving and attention. The DES is one of the major areas of cognitive deficit that may impede functional recovery and the ability to respond to rehabilitation programmes. The battery includes a 20-item Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX) that samples the range of problems in four broad areas of likely change: emotional or personality changes, motivational changes, behavioural changes and cognitive changes.
The term “Executive Functions” refers to the higher-level cognitive skills you use to control and coordinate your other cognitive abilities and behaviors. Damage to memory, language, visuospatial skills and other cognitive functions can impact how a person performs on tests of executive function. Executive skills are also grounded in real world experience, which makes laboratory tests more difficult to create.
Frontal lobe disorder is an impairment of the frontal lobe that occurs due to disease or head trauma. Cerebrovascular disease may cause a stroke in the frontal lobe. Tumours such as meningiomas may present with a frontal lobe syndrome. Frontal lobe impairment is also a feature of Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia and Pick's disease.
NORMS: UK. The term ‘Dysexecutive Syndrome’ includes disorders of planning, organisation, problem solving, setting priorities, and attention. It is one of the major areas of cognitive deficit that can impede functional recovery and the ability to respond to rehabilitation programmes following brain injury. The assessment battery includes a 20 item Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX) that samples the range of problems in four broad areas of likely change: emotional or personality changes, motivational, behaviour or cognitive.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Frontal lobe disorder is an impairment of the frontal lobe that occurs due to disease or head trauma. The frontal lobe of the brain plays a key role in higher mental functions such as motivation, planning, social behaviour, and speech production. Cerebrovascular disease may cause a stroke in the frontal lobe. Tumours such as meningiomas may present with a frontal lobe syndrome. Frontal lobe impairment is also a feature of Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia and Pick's disease.
Behavioral and cognitive dysexecutive disorders were examined using the GREFEX battery. RESULTS: A dysexecutive syndrome was observed in 60% of patients, concerning both behavioral and cognitive domains in 26% and dissociated in 34%. Dysexecutive syndrome: diagnostic criteria and validation study. Godefroy O(1), Azouvi P, Robert P, Roussel M, LeGall D, Meulemans T; Groupe de Reflexion réflexion sur'L evaluation Des Fonctions Executives Exécutives. study group
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. Executive function is a set of mental skills that help you get things done. These skills are controlled by an area of the brain called the frontal lobe. Executive function helps you: 1  Manage time. 2  Pay attention. 3  Switch focus. 4  Plan and organize. 5  Remember details. 6  Avoid saying or doing the wrong thing.