At 29,035 feet (8,850 meters) above sea level, Mount Everest is the tallest and most prominent mountain in the world based on measurement to sea level. Asia's Himalayas -- the tallest mountain range in the world -- span across six countries: China, Nepal, India, Pakistan, Bhutan, and Afghanistan. Climbing Mount Everest. Because the summit is directly between Tibet and Nepal, Mount Everest can be climbed either from the Tibet/China side (the north ridge) or from the Nepal side (the southeast ridge).
Mount Everest-Tibet / Nepal / China. Mount Everest, also known in Nepal as Sagarmāthā and in Tibet as Chomolungma, is Earth's highest mountain. It is located in the Mahalangur section of the Himalayas. Its peak is 8,848 metres (29,029 ft) above sea level and is the 5th furthest summit from the center of Earth. 
Local Tibet Tours. Mount Everest, or Qomolangma, also called Chomolungma, the world's highest mountain above sea level at 8,848 metres (29,029 ft), is located in the Himalayas on the Nepal (Sagarmatha Zone)-China (the northern brae in Tingri County of Tibet) border. Mt. Everest owns two base camps, the south one is in Nepal and the north one in Tibet of China. The two camps are crude camps on Mount Everest that are used by mountain climbers during their ascent and descent.
Confidence votes 11.3K. Nepal Mount Everest is located in the Himalayas in Asia. The Himalayas stretches across six countries: Afghanistan, Bhutan, China, India, Nepal, and Pakistan. Mount Everest is situated at the edge of the Tibetan Plateau on the border between Nepal and Tibet. This plateau is also known as Qing Zang Gaoyuan in Tibetan. According to most Tibetans, Mt. Everest is not really in China. It is on the border of Nepal and Tibet. Tibet has been occupied by China since 1951, and is considered by China to be a 'Autonomous Region', much like Hong Kong.
Reaching 29,029 feet (8,848 meters) above sea level, Mount Everest is the highest mountain on Earth. Located in the Mahalangur section of the Himalayas, the mountain's summit straddles the border separating China and Nepal. The mountain's height was first determined in 1856. 
Best Answer: Mount Everest, also called Sagarmatha is the highest mountain on Earth, as measured by the height of its summit above sea level, which is 8,848 metres (29,029 ft). The mountain, which is part of the Himalaya range in High Asia, is located on the border between Sagarmatha Zone, Nepal, and Tibet, China. SO, MT. EVEREST IS LOCATED ON THE BORDER BET. Nepal, & Tibet, China.:).
Mount Everest (Mt. Mount Everest, or Qomolangma, also called Chomolungma, the world's highest mountain above sea level at 8,848 metres (29,029 ft), is located in the Himalayas on the Nepal (Sagarmatha Zone)-China (the northern brae in Tingri County of Tibet) border. Mt. Everest owns two base camps, the south one is in Nepal and the north one in Tibet of China. The two camps are crude camps on Mount Everest that are used by mountain climbers during their ascent and descent.
Mount Everest is located on the border between Tibet and Nepal in the Himalayan Mountains in Asia. Everest is situated on the Tibetan Plateau known as Qing Zang Gaoyuan; the summit is directly between Tibet/China and Nepal. Climbing Mount Everest. Because the summit is directly between Tibet and Nepal, Mount Everest can be climbed either from the Tibet/China side (the north ridge) or from the Nepal side (the southeast ridge).
6 days Tibet Highlight Tour. Mount Everest, or Qomolangma, also called Chomolungma, the world's highest mountain above sea level at 8,848 metres (29,029 ft), is located in the Himalayas on the Nepal (Sagarmatha Zone)-China (the northern brae in Tingri County of Tibet) border. Mt. Everest owns two base camps, the south one is in Nepal and the north one in Tibet of China. The two camps are crude camps on Mount Everest that are used by mountain climbers during their ascent and descent.