The second largest rainforest cat is the jaguar which once ranged from Arizona in the United States to Argentina, but is now mostly limited to forest areas and savannas in the Orinoco and Amazon basins. Besides the great cats, the rainforest also has several smaller species like the leopard cat (Asia), margay (New World), and ocelot (New World). These generally range from the size of a housecat to a dog. Most are nocturnal and hunt both on the forest floor and in the canopy. Jaguar in the Colombian Amazon.
To feed on another living thing is to be a predator, to partake in predation. Even herbivores are predators of sorts, although by predators we usually mean those animals that kill and consume animal prey relatively quickly. These are the true predators, and often dwell at, or near, the top of the food chain. The food chain in the forest begins with the sun's energy, arriving fresh from its 93,000,000 mile, eight minute journey across the Solar System. Large predators also keep numbers of medium-sized predators such as foxes (Vulpes vulpes) in balance. This in turn reduces the pressure that foxes can have on ground-nesting birds such as the capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus).
At the very center of the rain forest food web sit the top, or apex, predators. In most rainforests, these central slots are held by the big cats—tigers, leopards and jaguars—the big snakes, the big crocodilians and the largest birds of prey. But even among these apex creatures there is never a truce. But spiders themselves can fall victim to insects in the form of wasps and army ants. And while it’s easy to imagine rain forest birds eating spiders, it is also true that at least one species of spider in the rainforest food web—the Goliath trantula—eats birds. (See a short video on the Goliath here .).
This is the Amazon Ground Snake.. In this case the Amazon Ground Snake is the predator. The Amazon Ground Snake is immune to the poison from the Poison Dart Frog. Immune means that the Poison Dart frog's poison does not affect the Amazon Ground Snake. Normally the frog would be predator but being one of the most poisoness frogs or living thing in the world it should be predator, but it's not to this snake. This is the only snake in the rainforest that can kill this frog and actually eat this frog.
The Rain Forest’s Food Chain. In this complex rain forest web of life, the insects of the rainforest floor tend to eat plants, fungi, decaying material and other insects, and in turn be eaten by spiders, among a host of other creatures. But spiders themselves can fall victim to insects in the form of wasps and army ants. And while it’s easy to imagine rain forest birds eating spiders, it is also true that at least one species of spider in the rainforest food web—the Goliath trantula—eats birds. (See a short video on the Goliath here .).
The red squirrel (Sciurus vulgaris) is prey to animals such as the pine marten (Martes martes), but the squirrel itself will supplement its mainly herbivorous diet with insects and young birds in the nest and so is also a predator. Animals at the very top of the food chain are the top predators. Large predators also keep numbers of medium-sized predators such as foxes (Vulpes vulpes) in balance. This in turn reduces the pressure that foxes can have on ground-nesting birds such as the capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus).
Due to the scarcity of large prey, larger predators are relatively rare in the rainforest. Many of these carnivores have adapted to cope with the shortage of large ground-dwelling prey by hunting in the canopy and supplementing their diet with smaller animals like fish, rodents, birds, and reptiles. The largest group of mammalian predators on the forest floor are the cats. Each forested region, except the Australasian realm has its own forest cat species. The largest rainforest cat species is the tiger which once ranged from tropical India to Arctic Siberia to Southeast Asia. Besides the great cats, the rainforest also has several smaller species like the leopard cat (Asia), margay (New World), and ocelot (New World). These generally range from the size of a housecat to a dog. Most are nocturnal and hunt both on the forest floor and in the canopy. Jaguar in the Colombian Amazon.
Photo:Mila Zinkova. The Rain Forest’s Food Chain. T he relationships among species in an ecosystem have often been described as a “food chain” in which the larger animals eat the smaller. But the food-chain image is a two-dimension one, when in fact the picture is much more complex. Rain forest relationships are better described as a web—a rainforest food web. But spiders themselves can fall victim to insects in the form of wasps and army ants. And while it’s easy to imagine rain forest birds eating spiders, it is also true that at least one species of spider in the rainforest food web—the Goliath trantula—eats birds. (See a short video on the Goliath here .).