They are normally used in building blocks. Another type of rock is the metamorphic rock. The name “metamorphic” relates to the fact that this type of stone results after a transformation from another type of rock after extreme pressure and temperatures are applied.
Stone is the one of the major building materials. It is a versatile material and hence it can be used from the foundation to the parapet in a building and hence the scope comprises the study of use of different stones at these places.
These stones originates as a result of natural change from one type of stone to another type by the mixed action of heat, pressure and minerals. The change may be a development of a crystalline formation, a texture change, or a color change.
Trap rock is a layman's name used for any dark-colored igneous rock that is used in construction. Basalt, peridotite, diabase, and gabbro are examples of trap rock. Granite and trap rock are the second and third most commonly used types of rocks for producing crushed stone.
Slate, another metamorphic rock, it is a hard and granular stone used for inscriptions and memorials. It is also very useful as roofing material because of its layered form that allows masons to split it in thin pieces. The last type of rock is the sedimentary rock.
Building Stone. Building stone comes in different types. Different types of stone lend themselves to particular building techniques. Igneous rock, such as granite, is very hard and nonporous. Sedimentary rock, such as limestone, is soft and porous. Metamorphic rock, such as marbl
The first type of natural rock is the igneous rock. This rock forms from cooled magma or lava. One type of igneous rock used very often in construction is granite because it is very hard which means it has strength and durability.
Building Type of Stone Photo of Building Photo of stone Washington Hall,U.S. Military Academy,West Point, New York,USA Gneiss Lumpkin House,University of Georgia,Athens, Georgia, U.S.A. AthensGneiss Homes in Keswick,in the Lake DistrictCumbria,England,U.K. Green Slate Old store and church,Rockmart, GeorgiaU.S.A.