Incandescent Bulbs Light the Way. Long before Thomas Edison patented -- first in 1879 and then a year later in 1880 -- and began commercializing his incandescent light bulb, British inventors were demonstrating that electric light was possible with the arc lamp. The next big change in the incandescent bulb came with the invention of the tungsten filament by European inventors in 1904. These new tungsten filament bulbs lasted longer and had a brighter light compared to the carbon filament bulbs.
The first practical incandescent light bulb. Edison and his team of researchers in Edison's laboratory in Menlo Park, N.J., tested more than 3,000 designs for bulbs between 1878 and 1880. In November 1879, Edison filed a patent for an electric lamp with a carbon filament. Early research & developments. The story of the light bulb begins long before Edison patented the first commercially successful bulb in 1879. In 1800, Italian inventor Alessandro Volta developed the first practical method of generating electricity, the voltaic pile.
A Brief History of the Light Bulb. The electric light, one of the everyday conveniences that most affects our lives, was not “invented” in the traditional sense in 1879 by Thomas Alva Edison, although he could be said to have created the first commercially practical incandescent light. Early Light Bulbs. In 1802, Humphry Davy invented the first electric light. He experimented with electricity and invented an electric battery. When he connected wires to his battery and a piece of carbon, the carbon glowed, producing light.
Thomas Edison and the “first” light bulb. In 1878, Thomas Edison began serious research into developing a practical incandescent lamp and on October 14, 1878, Edison filed his first patent application for Improvement In Electric Lights. Early Light Bulbs. In 1802, Humphry Davy invented the first electric light. He experimented with electricity and invented an electric battery. When he connected wires to his battery and a piece of carbon, the carbon glowed, producing light.
Thomas Alva Edison was an American inventor, scientist and a businessman who invented the first practical bulb. He got the patent for his invention in 1879 in U. S. But records tell us that Joseph Swan, a British inventor got his invention for the same patented a year prior to Edison in Britain. The first light bulb was invented in 1809 by Sir Humphry Davy. He started working on his project in 1801. He ran electric current through two platinum rods which could not stay for long.
Eventually they would glow for up to 1,200 hours. Electric lamps: Joseph Swan’s 1878 invention (left) and Thomas Edison’s light bulb of 1879. Swan vs Edison. Edison went on to make big buck from the light bulb but Swan sued Edison for infringement and won. British inventor Humphry Davy invented an incandescent light bulb in 1801 and created the “arc lamp” in 1809. In 1835, Scottish inventor James Bowman Lindsay demonstrated a constant electric light in Dundee.
We all learned in our history classes that Thomas Edison invented the light bulb in 1879 and that the first successful filament was a carbonized piece of cotton thread that burned for 13.5 hours. 
Light bulbs were in use long before Edison applied for the patent in 1879. British inventor Humphry Davy invented an incandescent light bulb in 1801 and created the “arc lamp” in 1809. In 1835, Scottish inventor James Bowman Lindsay demonstrated a constant electric light in Dundee. In 1840, British scientist Warren de la Rue also demonstrated a light bulb
Credit: View full size image. View full size image. Thomas Edison is usually credited with the invention of the light bulb, but the famous American inventor wasn't the only one who contributed to the development of this revolutionary technology. Early research & developments. The story of the light bulb begins long before Edison patented the first commercially successful bulb in 1879. In 1800, Italian inventor Alessandro Volta developed the first practical method of generating electricity, the voltaic pile.