The statute of limitations for a charge-off is seven years from the date a creditor reports your account as delinquent. Depending on the creditor, it can take anywhere from 30 to 180 days for the creditor to file this report. 
Charge-offs Are Negative. Charge-offs stay on your credit report for seven years, no matter how you handle them. Being delinquent on an account for so long that the creditor writes it off becomes part of your credit history. Future lenders have a right to know that happened. When you have a charge-off on your credit report, it means you stopped making payments on your loan, usually for about six months. Your creditor gave up any hope of collecting the money you owed and wrote the transaction off as a loss, which shows up as a charge-off on your credit report.
The federal Fair Credit Reporting Act governs how long information can remain on your credit report. Under this law, most negative information, including charge-offs, must be removed from credit reports when it is seven years old. The seven-year clock typically starts running on the date of the charge-off. 
Sometimes creditors will wait longer then 180 days to charge off the debt, but that doesn't matter. If you print out your free credit report and calculate 7 yrs plus 180 days past the first deliquint payment and thats the month it will be off. This is federal law. 
1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
Positive information. Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven
- Good credit stays for 10 years and then it is aged off but can stay longer. - Bankruptcies that, from the date of adjudication, (means decision) antedate (means predate) the report by more than 10 years. - Collection accounts and charge offs remain for 7 years from first serious delinquency or charge off date. 
Anytime a charge-off can be removed from your credit report it improves your overall credit profile. And any negative item (that can report for up to seven years on your report) that is removed from your credit report is always GOOD! You can check on the Statute of Limitations (SOL) for debt in your state. Most companies that have “charged-off” your debt have probably tried to collect it for 6 -12 months already before charging it off. Charge-offs can stay on your credit report for seven years from the date it was charged off. Therefore, it could stay on your report for 7- 7.5 years or more! That’s a long time for negative information to remain on your reports. Just because it says Charge-Off does not mean the debt is forgiven by the creditor