Each sleep cycle that is experienced every night lasts approximately 90 to 110 minutes on average. Earlier in the night you experience more NREM stages 3 and 4 with little REM sleep, but as the night progresses you spend less time in NREM stages 3 and 4 also known as slow wave sleep, or Belta wave sleep. Deep sleep is reached about 30 to 45 minutes into your sleep cycle. If your an 8 hour sleeper you will move through about 5 sleep cycles, where a 6 hour sleeper will move through 4 and a half cycles. Best Answer. (like sisipamprsboi above) will often wake up ~ one hour as they complete each sleep cycle...DD.
This should have you waking up somewhere in the first 3 stages before you hit a deep sleep. If you can dial in how long your sleep cycle is then taking a longer nap through a full sleep cycle can be much more restorative since you go through the healing phases of sleep. That can give you a cognitive boost as well. 
The period (full cycle of REM and non-REM) lasts for about 90 minutes in humans, 22 minutes in cats, and 12 minutes in rats. In utero, mammals spend more than half (50–80%) of a 24-hour day in REM sleep. 
Sleep begins in Stage One and progresses into stages 2, 3, and 4. Then, after Stage Four sleep, Stages Three, then Two are repeated before going into REM sleep. Once REM is over, we usually return to Stage Two sleep. Sleep cycles through these stages approximately 4 or 5 times throughout the night. We typically enter REM approximately 90 minutes after falling asleep. The first cycle of REM often lasts only a short amount of time, but each cycle becomes longer. This is why we need long periods of sleep each night. 
The first REM sleep period usually occurs about 70 to 90 minutes after we fall asleep. A complete sleep cycle takes 90 to 110 minutes on average. The first sleep cycles each night contain relatively short REM periods and long periods of deep sleep. 
The sleep cycle chart above shows the sleep cycle of a typical 6-8 month old baby. Sleep cycle in babies are different than those for adults as babies spend a lot more time in dream sleep that adults, by adolescence, the adult level of 20% of the total sleep being dream sleep is reached. The stages of NREM sleep and REM sleep cycle over and over again during a night's sleep. Stages I, II, III, and IV are followed by REM sleep. A complete sleep cycle, from the beginning of stage I to the end of REM sleep, usually takes about 1 and 1/2 hours in adults and in a 6 month old it takes about 60 minutes.
Best Answer: To answer your question, yes you would. But to add some detail. The average human sleep cycle last from 90 to 110 minutes. This is how long our light sleep cycle is. Past two hours our bodies goes into deep sleep, or REM sleep. It is extremely hard to wake up from it and if woken up during our deep sleep cycle you will feel like utter crap and really groggy and not rested at all
The sleep cycle: A sleep cycle lasts about 90 minutes and during that time we move through five stages of sleep. The first four stages make up our non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep, and the fifth stage is when rapid eye movement (REM) sleep occurs. 
Usually, REM sleep happens 90 minutes after you fall asleep. The first period of REM typically lasts 10 minutes. Each of your later REM stages gets longer, and the final one may last up to an hour. Your heart rate and breathing quickens. You can have intense dreams during REM sleep, since your brain is more active. Babies can spend up to 50% of their sleep in the REM stage, compared to only about 20% for adults.