A virus is defined as any of a various number of submicroscopic parasites that can infect any animal, plant or bacteria and often lead to very serious or even deadly diseases. A virus consists of a core of RNA or DNA, generally surrounded by a protein, lipid or glycoprotein coat, or some combination of the three.
1 The flu viruses that normally circulate in pigs can infect people, but this is not common. 2  In 2005 and 2006, three cases of infection with flu viruses that normally circulate in swine (“variant viruses”) were reported in people.
Viruses cause a number of diseases in eukaryotes. In humans, smallpox, the common cold, chickenpox, influenza, shingles, herpes, polio, rabies, Ebola, hanta fever, and AIDS are examples of viral diseases. Even some types of cancer -- though definitely not all -- have been linked to viruses.
Their are many parts of a computer that viruses infect. Most viruses infect a certain file or program so that whenever that file is run, the virus is also executed. Some virus … es called Master Boot Record viruses infect the Master Boot Record of your computer.
A virus is a tiny organism that causes an infection in the body. Viruses are made up of the genetic material known as DNA or RNA, which the virus uses to replicate. In order for a virus to survive, it must invade and attach itself to a living cell.
When it comes into contact with a host cell, a virus can insert its genetic material into its host, literally taking over the host's functions. An infected cell produces more viral protein and genetic material instead of its usual products.
In general, each type of virus tends to infect only a certain type of cell in the body. (For example, the viruses that cause the common cold only infect the cells lining the nose and throat.). Several viruses are linked with cancer in humans.
Viruses depend on the host cells that they infect to reproduce. When found outside of host cells, viruses exist as a protein coat or capsid, sometimes enclosed within a membrane. The capsid encloses either DNA or RNA which codes for the virus elements.
This is how viruses cause disease. Generally, viruses will only infect one type of cell. For example, the cold virus will only infect cells of the upper respiratory tract. Viruses can be transmitted in numerous ways, such as through contact with an infected person, swallowing, inhalation, or unsafe sex.
Canine influenza (also known as dog flu) is a contagious respiratory disease in dogs caused by specific Type A influenza viruses known to infect dogs. These are called canine influenza viruses.. Dog flu is a disease of dogs. No human infections with canine influenza have ever been reported.