A simple outpatient cystoscopy can take five to 15 minutes. When done in a hospital with sedation or general anesthesia, cystoscopy takes about 15 to 30 minutes. Your cystoscopy procedure might follow this process: 1  You'll be asked to empty your bladder. 2  Then you'll lie down on a table on your back. 
Cystoscopy is the examination of the urethra and inside of the bladder (see diagrams below) using a telescope called cystoscope. The cystoscope is slightly smaller than the diameter of an HB pencil which is passed along the urethra and then into the bladder. There are two types of cystoscopes: 
Results. Cystoscopy is a test that allows the doctor to look at the inside of the bladder and the urethra. Your doctor may be able to talk to you about some of the results right after the cystoscopy. The results of a biopsy usually take several days to be available. 
A cystoscopy is an examination of the inside of the bladder and urethra, the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside of the body. In men, the urethra is the tube that runs through the penis. 
Cystoscopy (cystourethroscopy) is a diagnostic procedure that uses a cystoscope, which is an endoscope especially designed for urological use to examine the bladder, lower urinary tract, and prostate gland. I am a female that had a cystoscopy five days ago in the office with a local using a flexible scope. Had no pain whatsoever, he filled my bladder up which was uncomfortable as I have possible IC. Burning on urination for about six hours after. Burning bladder for three days.
Cystoscopy (sis-TOS-kuh-pee) is a procedure that allows your doctor to examine the lining of your bladder and the tube that carries urine out of your body (urethra). A hollow tube (cystoscope) equipped with a lens is inserted into your urethra and slowly advanced into your bladder. Cystoscopy may be done in a testing room, using a local anesthetic jelly to numb your urethra. Or it may be done as an outpatient procedure, with sedation. Another option is to have cystoscopy in the hospital during general anesthesia. The type of cystoscopy you'll have depends on the reason for your procedure
Guide. Cystoscopy (say sis-TAW-skuh-pee) is a test that allows your doctor to look at the inside of your bladder and urethra. It's done using a thin, lighted tube called a cystoscope. The doctor inserts this tube into your urethra and on into the bladder
After the procedure the local anesthetic wears off very quickly, within three or four minutes, When it does, your bladder and urethra will feel sore. Urinating will be painful: a burning sensation. It will take a long time to begin to urinate, with a thin stream, and be quite uncomfortable for the first 12 hours. 
What cystoscopy is. Cystoscopy is a test to look at the inside of your bladder using a thin, flexible tube called a cystoscope. A cystoscope has optic fibres inside it and a light and eyepiece attached to it. Through the eyepiece, your doctor can see down the optic fibres and into the inside of your bladder. 