The length of time it takes to recover from a hamstring strain or tear will depend on how severe the injury is. A minor muscle pull or strain (grade 1) may take a few days to heal, whereas it could take weeks or months to recover from a muscle tear (grade 2 or 3). Recovering from a hamstring injury may take days, weeks or months, depending on how severe the strain or tear is. A completely torn hamstring (grade 3) may take several months to heal and you'll be unable to resume training or play sport during this time.
A hamstring strain can be a pull, a partial tear, or a complete tear. Muscle strains are graded according to their severity. A grade 1 strain is mild and usually heals readily; a grade 3 strain is a complete tear of the muscle that may take months to heal. Most hamstring injuries occur in the thick, central part of the muscle or where the muscle fibers join tendon fibers. Rehabilitation for a proximal hamstring reattachment typically takes at least 6 months, due to the severity of the injury. Distal hamstring reattachments require approximately 3 months of rehabilitation before returning to athletic activities. Your doctor will tell you when it is safe to return to sports.
The signs and symptoms of a hamstring strain are: (1) pain when moving or stretching of the leg, (2) muscle spasms of the injured muscles, (3) swelling over the injury, (4) Weakened leg (moderate or severe strain), and (5) Crepitation (“crackling” feeling and sound when the injured area is pressed with fingers). 1 A moderate or (grade II) strain, which is a tearing of fibers in a muscle or tendon or at the attachment to the bone. 2  Strength is diminished. 3  A severe or (grade III strain), which is a rupture of the muscle tendon-bone attachment, with separation of fibers.
With a first-time injury, proper care and sufficient healing time before resuming activity should prevent permanent disability. How long does a hamstring injury take to heal? The average healing times are: (1) mild strain – 2 to 10 days, (2) moderate strain – 10 days to 6 weeks, (3) severe strain – 6 to 10 weeks. The complications listed above are more likely to occur in the case of repeated injuries. 1 A moderate or (grade II) strain, which is a tearing of fibers in a muscle or tendon or at the attachment to the bone. 2  Strength is diminished. 3  A severe or (grade III strain), which is a rupture of the muscle tendon-bone attachment, with separation of fibers.
A hamstring injury is a strain or tear to the tendons or large muscles at the back of the thigh. It's a common injury in athletes and can occur in different severities. The three grades of hamstring injury are: 1  grade 1 – a mild muscle pull or strain. Recovering from a hamstring injury may take days, weeks or months, depending on how severe the strain or tear is. A completely torn hamstring (grade 3) may take several months to heal and you'll be unable to resume training or play sport during this time.
1 Rest – keep your leg as still as you possibly can and avoid physical activity. 2  Your GP may recommend using crutches in more severe cases. 3  Ice – apply cold packs (a bag of frozen peas wrapped in a tea towel will also work) to your hamstring for 15 to 20 minutes every two to three hours during the day. Recovering from a hamstring injury may take days, weeks or months, depending on how severe the strain or tear is. A completely torn hamstring (grade 3) may take several months to heal and you'll be unable to resume training or play sport during this time.
Hamstring muscle injuries — such as a pulled hamstring — occur frequently in athletes. They are especially common in athletes who participate in sports that require sprinting, such as track, soccer, and basketball. A pulled hamstring or strain is an injury to one or more of the muscles at the back of the thigh. Most hamstring injuries respond well to simple, nonsurgical treatments. Rehabilitation for a proximal hamstring reattachment typically takes at least 6 months, due to the severity of the injury. Distal hamstring reattachments require approximately 3 months of rehabilitation before returning to athletic activities. Your doctor will tell you when it is safe to return to sports.
Hamstring Injury Grade 3. A grade 3 hamstring strain will take three to five weeks for proper recovery. A person with a grade 3 strain may have trouble walking without assistance, i.e., crutches. Also there will heavy swelling in the area of the strain. Do not play golf or perform any activity during this recovery time. When completing an athletic movement such as the golf swing there is always a chance you could hurt or pull a muscle. If throughout a swing you feel a pull or tear in the hamstring, an injury has occurred and you should stop immediately. It is crucial to understand how long it will take for the injury to heal.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Torn Hamstring: It depends on the severity. In general grade 1 strains usually recover in under 3 weeks. Grade 2 strains/tears - 4 to 6 weeks. Grade 3 tears - 8 to 12 weeks. Typically surgery is not recommended and recovery involves rest, stretching, and controlled strengthening. However, if 2 of the 3 tendons are avulsed from the origin, early surgery to repair the tendon to the origin would be an option. 