Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate. For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age.
Hens lay eggs on the same schedule as without a rooster present. If the rooster is allowed to mingle with the hens, there is a high likelihood that the eggs will be fertilized. This could result in chicks if the eggs are allowed to incubate (either in the nest under the hen or in an egg incubator). For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age.
As with all hens it depends on age. These hens stop laying at age three, and live until 6. they start laying at around four months, and at 6 months-2 years happy rhodys lay an … egg a day. from 2-3 they start slowing down, and lay an egg a day earlier, then gradually lay every other days every three days,ect. A healthy hen that lives in good conditions will lay up to one egg a day mostly. If they stop laying you may notice they are loosing feathers, relax they are simply multing. Loosing old feathers to make room for new ones. They will eventually start again.
This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity. For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age.
Yes chickens doo. they start to lay eggs at about … 6-8 weeks of age regardless if there is a rooster around or not. if you have a rooster you can not eat the eggs as they may be fertile. in extreem heat or cold chickens may not lay for a few weeks expectialy if the temprature changed quickley. A healthy hen that lives in good conditions will lay up to one egg a day mostly. If they stop laying you may notice they are loosing feathers, relax they are simply multing. Loosing old feathers to make room for new ones. They will eventually start again.
Female chickens (hens) generally start laying eggs at around 20-24 weeks of age. Some breeds take longer. They don't need a rooster to lay eggs and if you are lucky they will … lay an egg per day. Again this depends on the breed, with some chickens laying an egg every few days. They lay less over winter, when they are moulting or when they are stressed.
Best Answer: Hens lay eggs every 25 hours. They lay by the day light, so because they dont lay an egg everyday at the same time when it comes to afternoon they will hold that egg off until the next morning. Yes you can have only hens and get edible eggs, the only thing a rooster is needed for is to make baby chickens. You only need a rooster if you want fertile eggs. Once the hens are about 6 months and up each should lay eggs at least once a day. They can lay 1 to 3 eggs per hen per day.All the best;~}. SureKat · 8 years ago.
Best Answer: It takes a chicken about 24-26 hours to form a complete egg. Some birds may take a bit longer. Layer-type chickens (leghorns) lay more eggs than brown-egg layers or other breeds because their clutch length is longer and/or their days between clutches is shorter. Chickens lay in clutches which means they lay around 5-12 eggs in a row (about every day) and then take a day or two off.