By: Linda. Good article except peat moss and sphagnum moss are not really the same. Sphagnum moss (the fluffy green stuff) is renewable but peat moss (crumbly brown stuff) is the dead highly compressed sphagnum moss that is on its way to becoming burnable peat in a few thousand years. Peat moss is NOT a renewable resource. It accumulates at a rate of approx 1mm/year.
Overview. Gardeners who choose to use sphagnum peat moss instead of traditional soil are at risk for fungal and mold threats that will attack the growing medium. This threatens both the nutrient storage capabilities of the peat moss and the overall health of your plants. Prevention is the easiest way to keep mold at bay. This typically consists of placing the sphagnum peat moss in storage containers that are both airtight and away from moisture. Ideally, gardeners will purchase plastic containers with snap lids and keep them away from sprinklers, watering tables and the elements.
Submit. Peat moss, otherwise known as sphagnum moss, is a common landscape element that thrives in moist areas around the world, particularly bogs. In the past decade, health risks and dangers have been uncovered about the destruction of peat bogs, such as destroying delicate ecosystems and releasing greenhouse gases. 
Peat moss is sometimes called sphagnum peat moss because much of the dead material in a peat bog comes from sphagnum moss that grew on top of the bog. 
Whilst Sphagnum is a moss, not all mosses are sphagnum. Sphagnum moss is the long stranded moss that is often used by gardeners to line hanging baskets and for air-layering plants. Sphagnum peat is decayed and decomposed sphagnum moss, and for the purposes of this article, should not be confused with live Sphagnum. A single sphagnum moss plant is very small. It grows packed closely together with many other plants of the same kind and they provide support for each other's tiny stems.
Hence, as sphagnum moss grows, it can slowly spread into drier conditions, forming larger peatlands, both raised bogs and blanket bogs. These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland plants, including sedges and ericaceous shrubs, as well as orchids and carnivorous plants. Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily because of the phenolic compounds embedded in the moss's cell walls.
Uses for Peat Moss. In addition to being used as a soil additive where appropriate, peat moss is the primary component of most “soilless” mixtures that are commercially sold for seed starting and houseplant potting. These mixes usually also contain pearlite, vermiculite, and added nutrients. Sphagnum moss (the fluffy green stuff) is renewable but peat moss (crumbly brown stuff) is the dead highly compressed sphagnum moss that is on its way to becoming burnable peat in a few thousand years. Peat moss is NOT a renewable resource. It accumulates at a rate of approx 1mm/year.
Sphagnum moss is an excellent growing medium for trees with weak roots and yamadori/collected trees but it also has been associated with a potentially lethal fungal infection. This article discusses the advantages of using Sphagnum Moss and the possible dangers. Sphagnum moss growing in an area of wet, boggy land. Sphagnum peat is decayed and decomposed sphagnum moss, and for the purposes of this article, should not be confused with live Sphagnum. A single sphagnum moss plant is very small. It grows packed closely together with many other plants of the same kind and they provide support for each other's tiny stems.
Peat moss soil amendment, made of partly decayed, dried sphagnum moss. Decayed, dried sphagnum moss has the name of peat or peat moss. This is used as a soil conditioner which increases the soil's capacity to hold water and nutrients by increasing capillary forces and cation exchange capacity. These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland plants, including sedges and ericaceous shrubs, as well as orchids and carnivorous plants. Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily because of the phenolic compounds embedded in the moss's cell walls.