Occupational therapy will continue to be an important part of treatment for people with various illnesses and disabilities, such as Alzheimer’s disease, cerebral palsy, autism, or the loss of a limb. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median salary for occupational therapists is $75,400. Occupational therapists use the occupations of self-care, work, and play/leisure activities to increase independence, enhance development, and/or prevent disability. To achieve these goals occupational therapists may also adapt the task or the environment.
The master of occupational therapy program is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) of the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA). Occupational therapy (OT) is a health and human service profession that recognizes humans as occupational beings. The MOT program is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) of the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA), located at 4720 Montgomery Lane, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220. AOTA's phone number is (301) 652-AOTA
The future outlook is good for occupational therapists. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that employment of occupational therapists will grow 29 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. Occupational therapists use the occupations of self-care, work, and play/leisure activities to increase independence, enhance development, and/or prevent disability. To achieve these goals occupational therapists may also adapt the task or the environment.
A combined bachelor's/master's program is an accredited program that accepts students without a bachelor's degree; awards a baccalaureate degree; then, upon completion of the master's-level academic coursework and fieldwork, awards an entry-level master's degree in occupational therapy. 
In its simplest terms, occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants help people across the lifespan participate in the things they want and need to do through the therapeutic use of everyday activities (occupations). Occupational therapy services typically include: 1  an individualized evaluation, during which the client/family and occupational therapist determine the person’s goals, 2  customized intervention to improve the person’s ability to perform daily activities and reach the goals, and.
Occupational therapy is a health and rehabilitation profession. Occupational therapists work with people of all ages who need specialized assistance to lead independent, productive, and satisfying lives due to physical, developmental, social, or emotional problems. Occupational therapists use the occupations of self-care, work, and play/leisure activities to increase independence, enhance development, and/or prevent disability. To achieve these goals occupational therapists may also adapt the task or the environment.
Occupational therapists work in a variety of settings. These could include hospitals, rehabilitation centers, nursing facilities, home health, outpatient clinics, private practice, school systems, private organizations, industry, and community agencies such as return to work programs, prisons, and community settings. Occupational therapists use the occupations of self-care, work, and play/leisure activities to increase independence, enhance development, and/or prevent disability. To achieve these goals occupational therapists may also adapt the task or the environment.
(United States). Average Occupational Therapists in the United States make around $35.06 per hour. Earnings generally vary between $26.37 per hour and $46.17. While the particular city and the individual firm impact pay for this group, career length is the most influential factor. 
Occupational Therapy (MOT). 1  Anticipated tuition for 2014-2015 (subject to change by the board of trustees without notice) for Florida residents and out-of-state students is $28,420. 