All settlements in Svalbard are located on the main island of Spitsbergen (or Vest-Spitsbergen). 1  Barentsburg — sole remaining Russian settlement, population 400. 2  Hornsund — Polish research station, population 10 in winter, around 20-30 in summer.
Confidence votes 15. Svalbard is located far north of the ARCTIC circle about 600 miles from the north pole. it is in Norway territory and u can fly from oslo or tromso. it is at the north east of Greenland and almost due north of Norway.
Svalbard is an archipelago positioned in the Arctic Ocean to the north of mainland Europe, about midway between Norway and the North Pole. The archipelago is the northernmost part of the Kingdom of Norway. Total population is just over 2,200, with most people living in Longyearbyen on the rugged island of Spitsbergen.
Svalbard (. [ˈsʋɑ(ː)lbɑːɾ] ; formerly known by its Dutch name Spitsbergen) is a Norwegian archipelago in the Arctic Ocean. Situated north of mainland Europe, it is about midway between continental Norway and the North Pole. The islands of the group range from 74° to 81° north latitude, and from 10° to 35° east longitude.
Svalbard (Russian: шпицберген, Shpitsbergen or грумант, Grumant) is a group of islands located between the Arctic Ocean, Barents Sea, Greenland Sea, and the Norwegian Sea. The islands are directly North of (and since 1920 an integrated part of) Norway.
Spitsbergen (formerly known as West Spitsbergen; Norwegian: Vest Spitsbergen or Vestspitsbergen) is the largest and only permanently populated island of the Svalbard archipelago in northern Norway.
Svalbard (Russian: шпицберген, Shpitsbergen or грумант, Grumant) is a group of islands located between the Arctic Ocean, Barents Sea, Greenland Sea, and the Norwegian Sea. The area is sometimes referred to as Spitsbergen, the main island with all the settlements.
Constituting the westernmost bulk of the archipelago, it borders the Arctic Ocean, the Norwegian Sea, and the Greenland Sea. Spitsbergen covers an area of 39,044 km 2 (15,075 sq mi), making it the largest island in Norway and the 36th-largest in the world. The administrative centre is Longyearbyen.