Full year residents who receive or accrue Massachusetts gross income in excess of $8,000 during the taxable year are required to file a Massachusetts income tax return. Residents file Massachusetts Form 1 – Resident Individual Income Tax Return. To receive the credit, you must file a tax return and claim the credit. This refundable Massachusetts credit is 15 percent of the federal credit. The IRS provides an Earned Income Credit table based on the credit available for modified adjusted gross income.
If the amount of tax due is 0 and 100% of the tax due for the taxable year has been paid through: withholding; timely estimated payments of tax; credits or a refund from the prior tax year applied to the current year's tax liability, taxpayer is no longer required to file Form M-4868 or Form M-8736. To receive the credit, you must file a tax return and claim the credit. This refundable Massachusetts credit is 15 percent of the federal credit. The IRS provides an Earned Income Credit table based on the credit available for modified adjusted gross income.
Report Abuse. MA DOR website states that most refunds take about 5 business days via electronic transfer once a return is processed and will take longer (no time given) for paper check refunds. Generally, it can take up to 1 month for a paper refund. You can create an online account at the MA DOR and access your personal information directly including the estimated refund date. MrMojo1 · 6 years ago.
How long does it take to get a tax refund if you efile? Between 8-15 days if you select direct deposit into a bank account or about 4 weeks if you choose to receive an IRS check. It will be faster if you select a bank product from … a tax service firm, however these tend to be extremely expensive and you will have to have decent credit to qualify.
If you are filing a Massachusetts tax amendment, you may need to file a federal tax amendment as well. 2013 Massachusetts Tax Forms Massachusetts tax returns for 2013 cannot be prepared and filed online. Download the 2013 tax forms, fill them out, and mail them to the Massachusetts Department of Revenue. The efile.com tax software makes it easy for you to efile your state tax return and use the correct state tax forms. Prepare and efile your Massachusetts state tax return (resident, nonresident, or part-year resident) and Federal tax return together or separately at efile.com.
It usually takes 3 to 6 days depending on the day and time you file. for instance, monday before 9am, youll get it between thursday and saturday after 3pm. Between 8-15 days if you select direct deposit into a bank account or about 4 weeks if you choose to receive an IRS check. It will be faster if you select a bank product from … a tax service firm, however these tend to be extremely expensive and you will have to have decent credit to qualify.
For tax year 2014, the maximum credit is $1,050. If you are an eligible homeowner, you may claim a credit equal to the amount by which your property tax payments in the current year, including 50 percent of water and sewer use charges, exceed 10 percent of your total income. To receive the credit, you must file a tax return and claim the credit. This refundable Massachusetts credit is 15 percent of the federal credit. The IRS provides an Earned Income Credit table based on the credit available for modified adjusted gross income.
State Returns. States have their own tax agencies and the time it takes to process returns varies. The Massachusetts Department of Revenue will send a taxpayer their refund within four days if it’s filed electronically, whereas filing by paper return can take weeks. In Minnesota, paper returns can take as long as 90 days to process, while electronic returns are typically processed within 35 day
Report Abuse. Regardless if you e-file, you still have to mail in your Massachusetts State refund which takes under 21 days from the time they receive your refund. Massachusetts is differnt all the time, I used to get them in about 2 days, last year it took about 2 1/2 weeks and this year it took about 3 days, so there ir really no way of knowing. aliaricam3 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
The length of time it takes to get a Louisiana State refund from an  e-filed return can vary. As of February 2014, the state stated  e-filed returns may take around 21 days … for processing. 2 people found this useful. Between 8-15 days if you select direct deposit into a bank account or about 4 weeks if you choose to receive an IRS check. It will be faster if you select a bank product from … a tax service firm, however these tend to be extremely expensive and you will have to have decent credit to qualify.