The name Katelyn is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Katelyn is: Pure. American Meaning: The name Katelyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Katelyn is: Pure. English Meaning: The name Katelyn is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Katelyn is: the Irish form of Katherine.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Katelyn. Katelyn is an American phonetic respelling of the traditional Irish girl’s name, Caitlin, caitlín which is The celtic equivalent Of. Catherine the name was brought to The British isles in The Middle ages by way of The Norman french, Version. cateline Popularity of the Name Katelyn. Currently in America, Katelyn is the second most popular spelling of the traditional Caitlin; caitlín the first “Being.” Kaitlyn (katelyn as a spelling) variant first enters The.U. s popularity charts in, 1981 so it was actually the first-made up spelling of the Traditional Irish. caitlin
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Katelyn and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Katelyn and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Katelyn is fascinating, learn more about it.
[ 2 syll. ka-te-lyn, kat-el-yn ] The baby girl name Katelyn is pronounced as K EY-TLihN †. Katelyn is of Old Greek origin and it is used mainly in the English language. Katelyn is a derivative (English) of the English and Irish Caitlin. Katelyn is also a variant spelling of the English Kaitlin. Katelyn is also a derivative of the English Katherine. Katelyn is popular as a baby name for girls. The name rose in popularity from the 1980s up to the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only very light use. Its usage peaked modestly in 1993 with 0.303% of baby girls being given the name Katelyn.
Katelyn is an American phonetic respelling of the traditional Irish girl’s name, Caitlin, caitlín which is The celtic equivalent Of. catherine Popularity of the Name Katelyn. Currently in America, Katelyn is the second most popular spelling of the traditional Caitlin; caitlín the first “Being.” Kaitlyn (katelyn as a spelling) variant first enters The.U. s popularity charts in, 1981 so it was actually the first-made up spelling of the Traditional Irish. caitlin
Katelyn /kate-lyn/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAYT-len. It is of English origin. Alternate form of Caitlin, an Irish form of Katherine. Kateline is a medieval English form. Katelyn is a very prominent first name for women (#882 out of 4276, Top 21%) but an unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Katelyn for girls
Katelyn is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ka-te-lyn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 172 in baby name popularity for girls with 1910 occurrences. 
Meaning of Katelyn. English name. In English, the name Katelyn means-Phonetic form of Caitlin-the Irish form of Katherine. Pure.. Other origins for the name Katelyn include-English, Irish.The name Katelyn is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Phonetic form of Caitlin-the Irish form of Katherine. Pure