Reaching Spiritual Wellness. It is important for everyone to explore what they believe is their own sense of meaning and purpose. The path to spiritual wellness may involve meditation, prayer, affirmations, or specific spiritual practices that support your connection to a higher power or belief system. Having compassion, the capacity for love and forgiveness, altruism, joy, and fulfillment help you enjoy your spiritual health. Your religious faith, values, beliefs, principles, and morals define your spirituality. If you are a person engaged in the process of spiritual wellness, you are willing and able to transcend yourself in order to question the meaning and purpose in your life and the lives of others
Spirituality has been defined in numerous ways, including a belief in a power operating in the universe that is greater than oneself, a sense of interconnectedness with all living creatures, and an awareness of the purpose and meaning of life and the development of personal, values. 
Statement of Faith: Please describe your Christian faith and how it is relevant to your involvement with IJM (http://www.ijm.org/). This statement should outline your spiritual journey and discuss your current spiritual disciplines (prayer, study, etc.), including your current place of worship. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. 
1 Having a purpose in life can bring an inner sense of peace and help you discover your spirituality. 2  Try to find a career in a field you believe is important. 3  Or find something that you feel will improve the world you live in. You can begin by discovering what you already believe. 1  Make a list of your values. 2  Write down things that you believe are important in life. 3  Write down what you believe is right and wrong behavior.
It is something you will have to find for yourself. You can begin by discovering what you already believe. 1  Make a list of your values. 2  Write down things that you believe are important in life. 3  Write down what you believe is right and wrong behavior.
Simple is how I would describe my beliefs. My religion, on the other hand, has tons of homework-has a lot to do with studying history, archeology, etc... Heathen-Germanic/Norse Pagan-sometimes listed as Asatru, Forn Sed, etc.... My mother was a non-Christian, but on the days I would visit my father, I felt happier and could tell that someone was different in his life. I remember at the age of seven, kneeling down by the sofa with my father and asking Christ into my heart.
1 Find a sympathetic friend (hopefully in your church) with whom you can practice stating a particular doctrine until you feel confident that you can share it with someone who needs to hear you proclaim the Truth. 2  Your church family provides the best place to practice articulating your beliefs. 1 You will want to add more beliefs to the list as you think of them. 2  Decide what you believe about that doctrine (belief). 3  Search the scriptures for guidance. 4  Read the definitions offered by others but don’t copy them.
Jesus expects you to clarify those beliefs in your heart and mind so that, when He gives opportunity, you will share them with a person He is preparing to hear. God Our God is One God. He is the only God. He is perfect in every way. He exists eternally in the three persons of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 1 You will want to add more beliefs to the list as you think of them. 2  Decide what you believe about that doctrine (belief). 3  Search the scriptures for guidance. 4  Read the definitions offered by others but don’t copy them.
Re: How would you describe your spirituality? The slow and painful process of tearing out the pieces of the carnal man in me and accepting the pieces of spiritual man that Jesus offers. 