Itching. Finding the cause of the itching and treating any underlying skin disease is the first step in solving pruritus. Cysts and Skin Lumps. There are a number skin conditions that cause lumps and bumps to appear on the surface or just below the skin. This article covers some of the most common ones. Vitiligo is a condition in which white patches develop on the skin. Any location on the body can be affected and most people with vitiligo have white patches on many areas of the body. Varicose Veins and Spider Veins. Varicose veins are large, raised, swollen blood vessels that twist and turn.
A rash is an inflammatory reaction of the skin. Rashes can be caused by a wide variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions. Rashes can affect a small area of the skin or the full body and occur in all age groups and populations. Rashes vary greatly in appearance, extent and severity, depending on the underlying cause. Rashes can be red, white, purple or silver in color, and raised, bumpy or flat in texture. They can appear as dots or spots or occur in a large, continuous area. Rashes can also include scaling or flaking off of skin cells.
Chronic skin conditions typically aren’t curable, but they can be managed using drugs and by paying close attention to your lifestyle. Learn more about symptoms, treatments, and ways to feel better. Eczema. Eczema is term for a group of medical conditions that cause the skin to become inflamed or irritated. 
Peeling skin (desquamation) is the loss or shedding of the outer layer of your skin (epidermis). Peeling skin can be caused by direct damage to the skin or by a wide variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions. Peeling skin can affect a small area of the skin or the full body and can occur in all age groups and populations. Depending on the cause of peeling skin, it may go away with over-the-counter (OTC) creams or lotions, or it may require treatment of an underlying disease, disorder or condition.
Crohn’s Disease and Inflammatory Bowel Disease. Bowel-related and autoimmune disorders often cause symptoms outside of the gastrointestinal tract. These diseases can cause or aggravate skin conditions. In addition, the drugs used to treat these diseases can cause skin problems. Lupus is a skin disease that can occur in three forms. These are chronic cutaneous (discoid) lupus erythematosus, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, and acute cutaneous lupus erythematosus. The sun often worsens lupus skin problems. Each of these forms of lupus causes different
Disease Topics Related To Skin conditions. Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Skin conditions: 1  Psoriasis. 2  Eczema. 3  Skin rashes. 4  Skin disorders. 5  Skin cancer. 6  Rosacea. 7  Dry skin conditions. 8  more related diseases...». Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Skin conditions: 1  Psoriasis. 2  Eczema. 3  Skin rashes. 4  Skin disorders. 5  Skin cancer. 6  Rosacea. 7  Dry s
Because of the range of possible causes of peeling skin, a correct diagnosis of the underlying disease, disorder or condition is very important. The goal of the clinical evaluation is to identify the root cause for peeling skin. Contact your health care provider for a physical exam. Peeling skin can affect a small area of the skin or the full body and can occur in all age groups and populations. Depending on the cause of peeling skin, it may go away with over-the-counter (OTC) creams or lotions, or it may require treatment of an underlying disease, disorder or condition.
One of the more fascinating aspects of being a dermatologist is seeing the connection between the skin, the body’s largest organ, and other systems within the body. Various signs and symptoms of an underlying internal disease can be first recognized by what is taking place on the skin. 