Our impact doors give homeowners the freedom to create an entry that will enhance the beauty and curb appeal of your home. With our decorative glass options and fiberglass door systems your door will become the focal point of your home. Florida Window and Doors’ products are installed under the most stringent guidelines in the industry and to the exact specification of each opening.
With a new door system from Florida Window and Door you can expect to drastically reduce your energy costs. With our certified installation crews and our company installation techniques air infiltration will be eliminated which will minimize heat transfer between the exterior and interior surfaces of your home. Florida Window and Doors’ products are installed under the most stringent guidelines in the industry and to the exact specification of each opening.
Florida Hurricane Impact Doors. Our impact resistant doors are an asset to the protection of your Florida home. Along with the benefits of our insulated impact glass windows, our doors provide safety and security for families from both storms and intruders. In addition, the units offer increased sound and solar control. Our impact resistant doors are an asset to the protection of your Florida home. Along with the benefits of our insulated impact glass windows, our doors provide safety and security for families from both storms and intrude
Model HI 67. Whether you are looking for Hurricane Impact Doors Miami or just Impact Doors Miami, Tropical Doors & Moldings can help you find the exact Mahogany hurricane impact door that you are looking for. We have a wide variety of Miami Impact Doors and Miami Hurricane Impact Doors for you to choose from. 
Impact glass varies from the standard glass inserts for door because of the extra strength of the glass and the frame. The outer layer of glass has been laminated together for extra strength needed to withstand the force of the winds during a storm. This shows the impact glass options available for the decorative styles available for impact glass for the front door. Not all sizes are available, but the standard height full size is available for all.
Impact Rated Doors and Glass. Therma-Tru’s impact rated products are a better way to protect your home against severe storm damage, including heavy winds, rain and flying debris. And, like other Therma-Tru products, they offer beauty and style for strong curb appeal.
Besides hurricane door and hurricane window protection, impact-resistant windows and doors can also reduce outside noise and provide added UV protection. Characteristics: 1  Improves the resale value of your house. 2  Increases energy efficiency. 3  Reduces harmful UV rays. 4  Prevents forced entry 24/7. 5  Reduces external noise. 
We provide the fiberglass doors and installation of exterior doors. This is where you start looking for the glass insert options. We will need you to do the preliminary measuring as asked for on our Measure guide as well as bring a quick picture of the door opening on any device. The installers will take the final measurements. This shows the impact glass options available for the decorative styles available for impact glass for the front door. Not all sizes are available, but the standard height full size is available for all.
Our opaque impact doors are designed with a steel plate inside to withstand hurricane force winds and are Florida code and High Velocity, Hurricane Zone approved (Miami-Dade and Broward counties). Therma-Tru’s impact rated products are a better way to protect your home against severe storm damage, including heavy winds, rain and flying debris. And, like other Therma-Tru products, they offer beauty and style for strong curb appeal.