An amylase (/ˈaemɨleɪs/) ˈæmɨleɪs is an enzyme that catalyses the hydrolysis of starch into. Sugars amylase is present in the saliva of humans and some other, mammals where it begins the chemical process of. digestion Plants and some bacteria also produce amylase. As diastase, amylase was the first enzyme to be discovered and isolated (by Anselme Payen in 1833). Specific amylase proteins are designated by different Greek letters.
Amylase is not active in the stomach, the environment is too acidic. This is why the pancrease produces and secretes amylase into the duodenum after food leaves the stomach, t … o replace the amylase secreted by salivary glands and denatured by stomach acid. The pH of the stomach is quite a bit lower than the pH of the saliva and the salivary amylase ten … ds to get denatured in the acidic stomach environment. + 2 others found this useful.
All enzymes are proteins that are designed to work within a certain pH range. The pH of the stomach is quite a bit lower than the pH of the saliva and the salivary amylase ten … ds to get denatured in the acidic stomach environment. + 2 others found this useful.
Amylase is present in the saliva of humans and some other mammals, where it begins the chemical process of digestion. Foods that contain large amounts of starch but little sugar, such as rice and potatoes, may acquire a slightly sweet taste as they are chewed because amylase degrades some of their starch into sugar. Plants and some bacteria also produce amylase. As diastase, amylase was the first enzyme to be discovered and isolated (by Anselme Payen in 1833). Specific amylase proteins are designated by different Greek letters.
Answers. Best Answer: Every enzyme has it own pH optimum. The amylase in the saliva has a pH optimum of 5.6. In the stomach, the pH is 1-2. So amylase stops working in the stomach. In the small intestine, a mixture of pancreatic enzymes work there: trypsin, chymotrypsin, lipase, amylase, etc
Amylase is not active in the stomach, the environment is too acidic. This is why the pancrease produces and secretes amylase into the duodenum after food leaves the stomach, t … o replace the amylase secreted by salivary glands and denatured by stomach acid. 3 people found this useful. Lance Frank. No, enzymes like salivary amylase will denature when subjected to the low pH of the gastric juices. This is why there are similar, but slightly different enzymes released in the stomach. Some (like pepsin) are only activated through the high hydrochloric acid concentration.
Amylase is an example of an enzyme. Amylase is found in our saliva and is responsible for starting to break down the starch that we eat. So amylase is an enzyme that carries out the specific reaction of breaking down starch into a simple sugar. 
1 Salivary amylase pH in the mouth is slightly acidic, at 6.8, within which the enzyme amylase is able to function. 2  Amylase present in the stomach is deactivated due to the presence of hydrochloric acid, which creates an acidic environment in which amylase is denatured. Amylase is an enzyme found in human saliva, which is responsible for the breaking down of starch into sugar. The process of digestion begins with the chewing of food, in the presence of salivary amylase in the mouth, to convert the starch in food to sugar.