Atrial and Brain Natriuretic Peptides. Natriuretic peptides are peptide hormones that are synthesized by the heart, brain and other organs. The release of these peptides by the heart is stimulated by atrial and ventricular distension, as well as by neurohumoral stimuli, usually in response to heart failure. A second natriuretic peptide (brain-type natriuretic peptide; BNP) is a 32-amino acid peptide that is synthesized largely by the ventricles (as well as in the brain where it was first identified). BNP is first synthesized as prepro-BNP, which is then cleaved to pro-BNP and finally to BNP.
What is the target organ/cell of the hormone? Aldosterone: Kidney and adrenal cortex Atrial natriuretic peptide: Kidney Anti-diuretic hormone: Kidney 4. What action does the hormone bring about? Aldosterone: Regulates the amount of electrolytes in the body. Atrial natriuretic peptide: Restrains sodium ions reabsorption and renin release in the kidney. Anti-diuretic hormone: conserve body water by reducing the loss of water in urine. 5. Hormonal Regulation Aldosterone, atrial natriuretic peptide and anti-diuretic hormone all play a role in the regulation of water, electrolytes and blood pressure.
Natriuretic peptides and acute renal failure. Atrial natriuretic peptides (ANPs) are a family of peptide hormones, e.g., ANP, long-acting natriuretic peptide, vessel dilator, and kaliuretic peptide synthesized by the ANP gene. Structure of the atrial natriuretic peptide prohormone (proANP) gene. Four peptide hormones [e.g., atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), long-acting natriuretic peptide (LANP), vessel dilator, and kaliuretic peptide] are synthesized by this gene.
The atrial natriuretic hormone (ANP) is a cardiac hormone which gene and receptors are widely present in the body. Its main function is to lower blood pressure and to control electrolyte homeostasis. Author information: (1)Service d'endocrinologie et maladies metaboliques, Métaboliques Clinique-Marc, LINQUETTE-Usn, A, chru, 6 rue Du-Professeur, laguesse 59037 Lille. Cedex the atrial natriuretic (HORMONE) anp is a cardiac hormone which gene and receptors are widely present in the. body
Medical Definition of ATRIAL NATRIURETIC PEPTIDE. : a peptide hormone secreted by myocytes of the cardiac atria that in pharmacological doses promotes salt and water excretion and lowers blood pressure—abbreviation ANP. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about atrial natriuretic peptide. : a peptide hormone secreted by the cardiac atria that in pharmacological doses promotes salt and water excretion and lowers blood pressure —called also atrial natriuretic factor. ADVERTISEMENT.
Plasma (1 mL) collected in a chilled, lavender-top tube. Specimen should be transported tightly capped and in an ice slurry. (Method: Radioimmunoassay). Atrial natriuretic peptide or atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) is a hormone secreted from cells in the right atrium of the heart when right atrial pressure increases. The release of this cardiac peptide is stimulated by increases in the stretch of the atrial wall caused by an increase in blood pressure or blood volume. 
For other uses, see ANP. Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), atrial natriuretic hormone (ANH), Cardionatrine, Cardiodilatine (CDD) or atriopeptin, is a powerful vasodilator, and a protein (polypeptide) hormone secreted by heart muscle cells. It is released by muscle cells in the upper chambers (atria) of the heart (atrial myocytes) in response to high blood volume. ANP acts to reduce the water, sodium and adipose loads on the circulatory system, thereby reducing blood pressure.
Spatial Structure of ANP. Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), atrial natriuretic hormone (ANH), or atriopeptin, is a powerful vasodilator, and a polypeptide hormone secreted by heart muscle cells. It is involved in the homeostatic control of body water, sodium, potassium and fat (adipose tissue). Structure of the atrial natriuretic peptide prohormone (proANP) gene. Four peptide hormones [e.g., atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), long-acting natriuretic peptide (LANP), vessel dilator, and kaliuretic peptide] are synthesized by this gene.