It’s up to the individual airline whether they check the identification of a minor traveling domestically with parents. American Airlines states that you “may be required to present proof of age” for children younger than 18 (See References). Southwest Airlines allows children as young as 5 to travel alone without an airline chaperones as long as they're on a non-stop or direct flight; they say proof of age may be required. If you're worried, the best course of action is to send your child with a certified copy of his birth certificate, just in case.
Although not all airlines will check your child’s ID for domestic travel, it’s a good idea to have it on hand. Most list a birth certificate as the preferred method of identification; for example, Southwest Airlines requires one for all children younger than two (See References). Southwest Airlines allows children as young as 5 to travel alone without an airline chaperones as long as they're on a non-stop or direct flight; they say proof of age may be required. If you're worried, the best course of action is to send your child with a certified copy of his birth certificate, just in case.
Check with your airline to be sure. Acceptable ID for domestic travel outside of the US. Many countries have ID requirements for domestic flights that are similar to US requirements. You should check with your airline or with the appropriate authorities within that country to find out what IDs are acceptable for domestic flights. Acceptable ID for travel from the US. There are two kinds of identification requirements for international travel from the US, identification for getting through TSA security, and identification for the airline.
Passengers 18 years of age or older are required to have a valid, current U.S. federal or state-issued photo ID that contains name, date of birth, gender, expiration date and a tamper-resistant feature for travel to or from a U.S. Territory (Guam, Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands). Expired documents are not accepted. 
In most cases, you just need to show a boarding pass to get on the airplane. Acceptable ID for travel from the US. There are two kinds of identification requirements for international travel from the US, identification for getting through TSA security, and identification for the airline. The TSA's ID requirement for entering the secure part of the airport terminal is the same for domestic or international passengers
Children's Documentation. The TSA does not require children traveling with a parent or guardian to travel with any identification. Airlines often require proof of age, such as a birth certificate or passport, at check-in for children under age 18. Certain airlines require additional documentation for babies. All air travelers flying domestically must meet the identification requirements of both the airline and the Transportation Security Administration. While the TSA rules apply across the board, each airline can set additional requirements for adult and child traveler
Identification. Adult passengers 18 and over must show valid identification at the airport checkpoint in order to travel. 1  Driver's licenses or other state photo identity cards issued by Department of Motor Vehicles (or equivalent). 2  U.S. passport. 3  U.S. passport card. 
Minors Traveling Alone. If your child is traveling alone, you'll need to consult the airline on its unaccompanied minor policy. The older the child, the more likely he'll be allowed to travel without an airline chaperone. The age limits and ID requirements vary by carrier. Delta and American Airlines, for example, only allows children 15 and older to travel alone domestically without their unaccompanied minor service (See References). Southwest Airlines allows children as young as 5 to travel alone without an airline chaperones as long as they're on a non-stop or direct flight; they say proof of age may be required. If you're worried, the best course of action is to send your child with a certified copy of his birth certificate, just in case.