Polynomial Discriminant. A polynomial discriminant is the product of the squares of the differences of the polynomial roots. The discriminant of a polynomial is defined only up to constant factor, and several slightly different normalizations can be used.
Then the answer is: x = –1.24, x = 3.24, rounded to two places. For reference, here's what the graph looks like: There is a connection between the solutions from the Quadratic Formula and the graph of the parabola: you can tell how many x-intercepts you're going to have from the value inside the square root.
Standard Form. The Standard Form of a Quadratic Equation looks like this: 1  a, b and c are known values. a can't be 0.  2  x  is the variable or unknown (we don't know it yet). 
Definition of Discriminant. The Discriminant of an equation gives an idea of the number of roots and the nature of roots of the equation. If ax 2 + bx + c = 0 is a quadratic equation, then the Discriminant of the equation, i.e. D = b 2 - 4ac. 
Introduction. You can solve any quadratic equation by completing the square—rewriting part of the equation as a perfect square trinomial. If you complete the square on the generic equation ax2 + bx + c = 0 and then solve for x, you find that. 
Quadratic Formula Calculator & Solver. Calculator for solutions to any Quadratic equation. The calculator uses the quadratic formula to find solutions to any quadratic equation. The formula is: The quadratic formula calculator below will solve any quadratic equation that you type in.
The Discriminant. In the quadratic formula, the expression under the square root sign, b 2 – 4 ac, is called the discriminant. The sign of the discriminant can be used to find the number of solutions of the corresponding quadratic equation, ax 2 + bx + c = 0. If the discriminant b 2 – 4 ac is negative, then there are no real solutions of the equation. If the discriminant is positive, then the ± symbol means you get two answers. The solutions of this equation correspond to the x-intercepts of the parabola. y = ax 2 + bx + c. So, you can also use the discriminant to find the number of x-intercepts of a parabola.
If the discriminant is zero, there is only one solution. If the discriminant is positive, then the ± symbol means you get two answers. The solutions of this equation correspond to the x-intercepts of the parabola. y = ax 2 + bx + c. So, you can also use the discriminant to find the number of x-intercepts of a parabola.
ADVERTISEMENT. Probably the most important thing to remember when using the Quadratic Formula (other than the Formula itself, which you should memorize) is that you must do each step clearly and completely, so you don't lose your denominators or plus-minuses or square roots. 
Because the quadratic equation involves only one unknown, it is called  univariate . The quadratic equation only contains powers of x that are non-negative integers, and therefore it is a polynomial equation, and in particular it is a second degree polynomial equation since the greatest power is two. 