After the two-month incubation period, the turtle hatchlings all dig out of their nest at the same time, a process that can take several days. As a group, they then leave their nest at night and head directly for the sea. This first trek imprints their home beach into the hatchlings. 
Life Cycle of Leatherbacks. The leatherback life cycle begins with a female turtle laying eggs on a nesting beach. Females stay close to shore in “internesting habitats” for 3-4 months and make repeated visits at 10-day intervals to lay eggs. 
Once nesting is complete, female turtles return to the open ocean to feed for the first time since the egg-laying season began. Females tend to nest at between two and seven-year intervals. The incubation period of Leatherback Turtle eggs is approximately 60 days. These changes are likely to affect all marine turtles and many other marine species. Leatherback turtLeS and cLimate change Turtle-y exposed to climate change the iucn red List of threatened Species ™ © Brian J. Hutchinson. The Leatherback Turtle (Dermochelys coriacea) is the largest of all the living turtles. Leatherbacks can reach lengths of nearly two metres and can weigh more than 500 kg. The largest specimen ever found weighed an astounding 916 kg, justifying the Leatherback’s title as a ‘gentle giant’ of the ocean
The largest of the sea turtles, the leatherback can reach over 1.8 m (6 ft) in length and 680 kg (1,500 lb) in weight. During their long migrations, leatherbacks regularly dive to depths greater than 1,000 m (3,281 ft) in search of gelatinous zooplankton to eat. The leatherback is rapidly declining in many areas of the world.
The leatherback can reach enormous proportions. It is the largest living turtle, ranging from 550 to 1,200 pounds (295 to 545 kilograms) and growing to lengths of 6 to 8 feet (1.8 to 2.4 meters). There are records of at least one specimen weighing 2,000 pounds (907 kilogram). It is the only living species of family Dermochelyidae.
The average internesting interval is about 9 to 10 days. The nests are constructed at night in clutches with an average of 80 to 85 yolked eggs. The white spherical eggs are approximately 2 inches in diameter. Typically incubation takes from 55 to 75 days, and emergence of the hatchlings occurs at night. Most leatherbacks remigrate to their nesting beaches at 2 to 3-year intervals. Leatherbacks are believed to reach sexual maturity in about 16 years. 
Leatherbacks appear to nest once every two or three years with an incubation period of approximately 60 days. Diet. The large size of leatherbacks is all the more remarkable given their low energy, low protein diet of soft-bodied creatures such as jellyfish, squid and tunicates (jelly fish-like marine invertebrates). Physical Description. The leatherback turtle is the largest marine turtle and one of the largest living reptiles. Leatherbacks are one of the most migratory of all marine turtle species, making both trans-Atlantic and trans-Pacific crossings.
The leatherback sea turtle (Dermochelys coriacea), sometimes called the lute turtle or leathery turtle, is the largest of all living turtles and is the fourth-heaviest modern reptile behind three crocodilians. Leatherback's front flippers can grow up to 2.7 m (8.9 ft) in large specimens, the largest flippers (even in comparison to its body) of any sea turtle. The leatherback has several characteristics that distinguish it from other sea turtles.