When your baby is sleeping 13-15 hours per day, this is within normal ranges for a very long time. If your baby is sleeping less, this may or may not be enough sleep. Depending on your baby’s age, a typical baby will sleep 11-12 hours at night and 2-3 hours during the day. Since averages are just those, your baby may indeed need more like 12 hours at night and 4 hours of sleep during the day. This is unlikely to be a cause for concern. If your 6 month or older baby is sleep sleeping like a newborn, though, hardly up during the day for more than an hour at a time, for example, I believe this would warrant a talk with the doctor. There are medical conditions that can cause the need for too much sleep and you do want to rule them out.
David Geller. pediatrician. The average newborn sleeps about 16 hours a day, but some need much less sleep and some much more. Also, it's not uncommon for a newborn's sleep pattern to change from day to day; he may sleep substantially less than usual one day and then catch up by sleeping more the following day. But you'll probably find that he sleeps for a large part of the day, waking primarily to feed and then falling back to sleep soon after. This pattern will change over his first few months as he gradually spends more time awake and alert.
Newborn babies sleep for more than 16 hours a day in 3 or 4 hours bursts, find out how to keep your sleeping baby safe and make this busy period as easy as possible. It’s been a long day at the hospital. Your new baby is probably snuggling up to you for her first small sleeps and she’ll be at it for a while. “I never realized how much skin-to skin contact with my baby mattered. When it’s time for bed and she feels distressed, we spend some time touching, reassuring, and she quickly calms down.” Germaine, Mom of Amos, 3 months. During the first few weeks, newborns can sleep up to 16-20 hours a day in 3-4 hour stretches. Make sure they sleep safely and peacefully by: 1  Placing baby to sleep on her back on a firm surface. 2  Keeping extras like pillows, stuffed animals, and comforters out of the crib. 3  Sleeping near baby but not in the same bed
Set up a sleep schedule. For the first six to eight weeks, most babies aren't able to stay up much longer than two hours at a time. If you wait longer than that to put your baby down, he may be overtired and have trouble falling asleep. Teach your baby the difference between day and night. Some infants sleep for a long stretch at night as early as 6 weeks, but many babies don't reach that milestone until they're 5 or 6 months old and some continue to wake up at night into toddlerhood. You can help your baby get there sooner, if that's your goal, by teaching him good sleep habits from the star
Your baby’s sleep – Sleep requirements. In a 24 hour period, newborn babies generally sleep for 16 to 18 hours, and this happens at regular intervals during the day and night.
Some newborns need even more sleep and essentially wake for 30 minutes or less at a time and sleep most of the day and night away. If your baby is sleeping too much during the day, but wants to party at night, she most likely has her days and nights confused and you should review our newborn sleep tips. If your 6 month or older baby is sleep sleeping like a newborn, though, hardly up during the day for more than an hour at a time, for example, I believe this would warrant a talk with the doctor. There are medical conditions that can cause the need for too much sleep and you do want to rule them out.
Newborn babies sleep a lot. Expect your baby to be asleep for up to 18 hours over the course of 24 hours in his first few weeks. But he won't sleep for more than three hours or four hours at a time, day or night (Davis et al 2004) .
Typical sleep patterns for newborns. Newborns sleep a lot – typically up to 16 to 17 hours a day. But most babies don't stay asleep for more than two to four hours at a time, day or night, during the first few weeks of life. Some infants sleep for a long stretch at night as early as 6 weeks, but many babies don't reach that milestone until they're 5 or 6 months old and some continue to wake up at night into toddlerhood. You can help your baby get there sooner, if that's your goal, by teaching him good sleep habits from the start