50 Mackenzie Street, Vryburg, 8601, Bophirima Region, North West Province. Bird Guest Lodge is located in Vryburg, a town on the main route from Gauteng to Namibia, conveniently close to shops and restaurants. Bird Guest Lodge is a cosy guest house, offering spacious accommodation in six, comfortable ... 41 on Market Lodge. 41 Market Street, Vryburg, 8601, Bophirima Region, North West Province. Situated in the centre of Vryburg you will find 41 on Market Lodge. We offer modern and luxurious accommodation for families, groups and business travelers in different types of rooms with air-conditioning, secure parking, ...
It is situated halfway between Kimberley (the capital of the Northern Cape Province) and Mafikeng (the capital of the North West Province). It is on Cecil Rhodes ’s great northern railroad, which ran from Cape Town through the Kimberley diamond fields, Vryburg, Mafikeng, and northwards beyond Victoria Falls. It is also on the N14 National Road which runs from Gauteng Province in a southwesterly direction through Vryburg, Kuruman and Upington to the mining town of Springbok in the North-western Cape. This road also connects Gauteng Province with Namibia.
Vryburg (Afrikaans for free fort) is a large agricultural town with a population of 48,200 situated in the Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati district of the North West Province of South Africa. It is the seat and the industrial and agricultural heartland of the district of the Bophirima region. It is also on the N14 National Road which runs from Gauteng Province in a southwesterly direction through Vryburg, Kuruman and Upington to the mining town of Springbok in the North-western Cape. This road also connects Gauteng Province with Namibia.
Vryburg is also situated on the main railway lines from Cape Town to Botswana and Zimbabwe. The town offers residential areas, business centers and all modern facilities. It is also on the N14 National Road which runs from Gauteng Province in a southwesterly direction through Vryburg, Kuruman and Upington to the mining town of Springbok in the North-western Cape. This road also connects Gauteng Province with Namibia.
In 1919 the Royal Air Force built the first airport in Vryburg. It was located to the north of the town and west of the Gert Lubbe Sports Grounds. The area was originally identified by Major Court Treatt as a landing strip for the regular flights between Cairo and Cape Town. Vryburg Airport (IATA: VRU, ICAO: FAVB) is an airport serving Vryburg, a town in the North West province, South Africa.
Vryburg-Texas of South Africa. Set amidst African savannah grasslands, Vryburg is located in the North West Province of South Africa along the route joining Gauteng to neighboring Namibia. With its terrain being particularly suited to cattle farming, Vryburg is often referred to as the Texas of South Africa. The Theiler Agricultural Museum located on the Armoedsvlakte Farm northwest of Vryburg pays tribute to the work of Arnold Theiler, founder of the Onderstepoort Veterinary Research Institute, and famous for his life-saving research into cattle diseases, much of which he accomplished on the farm.
Vryburg. Vryburg is situated on the N14 National Road, which runs from Johannesburg in the Gauteng Province in a southwesterly direction to Vryburg. When the Republic of Stellaland was established in 1882, Vryburg was it's first capital. 
detailed map of Vryburg and near places. Welcome to the Vryburg google satellite map! This place is situated in Vryburg, North West, South Africa, its geographical coordinates are 26° 57' 0 South, 24° 44' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Vryburg. See Vryburg photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Vryburg in South Africa.
Vryburg is a thriving agricultural town in the North West province of South Africa. It is located to the west of Klerksdorp and Orkney and is ideally positioned on a number of important transport links. For starters, it lies on the N14 which connects Johannesburg in Gauteng to Springbok in the Northern Cape. It also lies on Rhodes great railway which runs from Cape Town beyond Victoria Falls.
Vryburg is a city/town with a small population in the province of North-West, South Africa which is located in the continent/region of Africa. Cities, towns and places near Vryburg include Huhudi, Setuat, Devonlea and Vicedale. 