To Kill a Mockingbird is a novel by Harper Lee published in 1960. It was instantly successful, winning the Pulitzer Prize, and has become a classic of modern American literature, widely read in U.S. high schools and middle schools. He is only brought up in the first chapter of the book. He is the ancestor of Atticus, Jem and Scout Finch. He is a Cornish Methodist apothecary, who was also a fur trader. He fled from religious persecution in England and sailed across the Atlantic to Philadelphia, and then Jamaica, before finally settling in Alabama.
Arthur Boo Radley is a mysterious character in To Kill a Mockingbird and slowly reveals himself throughout the novel. Boo Radley is a very quiet, reclusive character, who doesn't actively present himself until Jem and Scout's final interaction with Bob Ewell. He is only brought up in the first chapter of the book. He is the ancestor of Atticus, Jem and Scout Finch. He is a Cornish Methodist apothecary, who was also a fur trader. He fled from religious persecution in England and sailed across the Atlantic to Philadelphia, and then Jamaica, before finally settling in Alabama.
To Kill a Mockingbird is a novel by Harper Lee published in 1960. It was immediately successful, winning the Pulitzer Prize, and has become a classic of modern American literature. 
Dill was in his Aunt Rachel's backyard next door when Jem and Scout spotted him behind the fence. Out of curiosity, Jem walked right up and started asking him questions. … Ever since they were friends and inseparable every summer that Dill would come to visit. jem lost his pants from climbing under the fence and had to go back to the radletys yard to get his pants back. he tells scout to count to 10 and he will be right back before he gets back. as scout was counting she heard a gunshot and thought that mr radley had shot jem.
Dill says his father's pres. of L&N Railroad. Jem rolls Scout in a tire to the Radley's porch. Jem, Scout, Dill make up a play about the Radleys- (Mrs. Radley loses right forefinger.) Chapter 5 (p.46-54) Mrs. Maudie raises flowers - 'foot-washing' Baptists-say she's going to hell. Dill Harris-telling many tales about his dad. Best Answer: Dill was in his Aunt Rachel's backyard next door when Jem and Scout spotted him behind the fence. Out of curiosity, Jem walked right up and started asking him questions. Ever since they were friends and inseparable every summer that Dill would come to visit
This shows that they regard the family as almost fictional. They give little thought to the fact that their game may be hurtful to thinking, feeling humans behind the Radley windows. In chapter four, Dill, Jem and Scout begin playing the new game that involves a drama of acting out the family life of the Radleys. Jem becomes Boo Radley. Dill is old Mr. Radley, and Scout becomes Mrs. Radley. Boo bit it off one night when he couldn't find any cats and squirrels to eat.); she sat in the living room and cried most of the time, while Boo slowly whittled away all the furniture in the house. Dill, Jem, and Scout play this game over the summer.
Boo Radley does not show himself in full form to anyone which leaves all the children of Maycomb County, including Scout, Jem, and Dill, to create stories about him. jem lost his pants from climbing under the fence and had to go back to the radletys yard to get his pants back. he tells scout to count to 10 and he will be right back before he gets back. as scout was counting she heard a gunshot and thought that mr radley had shot jem.
Ocamb-Winters English IA, 3rd Period 22 February 2015 To Kill a Mockingbird To Kill a Mockingbird by Harper Lee is a novel about a young girl named Scout and her family who live in Maycomb County, a small town in Alabama during the 1930’s. 
jem scout and dill all go up to the radleys door to seeif they can see boo(arther) radley. as they were looking in the window they saw a shadow and they all ran in the collard … patch. jem lost his pants from climbing under the fence and had to go back to the radletys yard to get his pants back. he tells scout to count to 10 and he will be right back before he gets back. as scout was counting she heard a gunshot and thought that mr radley had shot jem.