Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Most species of CROCODILE have glands in their mouths to expel salt from their systems. Alligators (remember, folks, there's 20-some-odd species of croc, only two species of true alligator) lack these glands. Alligators spend most of their time in fresh water, but yes, if you're referring to the ICW through Fl, especially the Indian River Lagoon System, alligators ARE in brackish water a LOT. However, they do need to retreat to fresh water on a regular basis to rinse the salt out of their system.
American alligators are most commonly found in the southeastern United States, such as Florida, Louisiana, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, and Texas. Florida and Louisiana have the largest populations of alligators in America, with each inhabited by around 1.5 million alligators. The only other species of alligator, the Alligator sinensis, is found in China and is a much smaller version of the American alligator. The United States is the only country in the world where alligators and crocodiles live side by side
Most species of CROCODILE have glands in their mouths to expel salt from their systems. Alligators (remember, folks, there's 20-some-odd species of croc, only two species of t … rue alligator) lack these glands. Alligators spend most of their time in fresh water, but yes, if you're referring to the ICW through Fl, especially the Indian River Lagoon System, alligators ARE in brackish water a LOT. However, they do need to retreat to fresh water on a regular basis to rinse the salt out of their system.
Many people think alligators can only live in fresh water. This is not true, as many gator's live in salt water for their entire life. Beaufort, Hunting Island and Hilton Head Island areas do have a healthy alligator population and they can be found in any area where water is present. 
Alligators are primarily freshwater animals, however they have been known to occasionally venture out into brackish salt water. Alligators typically live in swampy areas, rivers, streams, lakes and ponds. Females and juveniles occasional use seasonal wetlands such as Carolina Bays. 
Because they have a low tolerance for salt, the majority of alligators inhabit freshwater. They can only handle being exposed to salt water for a small length of time, but will sometimes live in brackish water. Florida and Louisiana have the largest populations of alligators in America, with each inhabited by around 1.5 million alligators. The only other species of alligator, the Alligator sinensis, is found in China and is a much smaller version of the American alligator.
Alligators are primarily freshwater animals and they do not live in the ocean. An alligator enjoying the sun's rays. Image courtesy of U.S. National Park Service. There are many things you may encounter when swimming in the ocean. Alligators probably aren’t one of them. While alligators can tolerate salt water for a few hours or even days, they are primarily freshwater animals, living in swampy areas, rivers, streams, lakes, and ponds. 
The American alligator is found from North Carolina to the Rio Grande in Texas. Alligators are usually found in freshwater, in slow-moving rivers. They are also found in swamps, marshes, and lakes. They can tolerate salt water for only brief periods because they do not have salt glands. 
Although alligators only thrive in fresh water because they can't digest salt, crocodiles can live in both fresh and salt water. The Everglades is unique because fresh water in the Florida Bay meets the salt water of the Gulf of Mexico, creating a perfect ecosystem for both animals to live together. 
Crocodiles. American crocodiles primarily are found in south Florida living in brackish and saltwater habitats such as ponds, coves and creeks of mangrove swamps. Recently crocodiles have moved northward within their range and even inland into freshwater areas of southeast Florida.