Method 1: Transfer music and video files from PC. 1. Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 2. On your phone, a USB icon will appear in the top Notification bar. Drag the notification bar downwards and then tap on the Connected as a media device. Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 3. Click Music (or Videos) below a device name under Connected devices. 4. Click the + sign at the top right of the Kies screen. If your phone has external SDcard, then you should see the Internal and external memory options.
Transfer music and video files using Samsung Kies. 1  Install Samsung Kies and then launch the software on your PC. 2  Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 3  Click Music (or Videos) below a device name under Connected devices. 4  Click the + sign at the top right of the Kies screen. ii. 1  Install Samsung Kies and then launch the software on your PC. 2  Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 3  Click Music (or Videos) below a device name under Connected devices. 4  Click the + sign at the top right of the Kies screen.
Transfer music and video files using Samsung Kies. 1  Install Samsung Kies and then launch the software on your PC. 2  Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 3  Click Music (or Videos) below a device name under Connected devices. 4  Click the + sign at the top right of the Kies screen. 1 Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 2  Click Music (or Videos) below a device name under Connected devices. 3  Click the + sign at the top right of the Kies screen. 4  If your phone has external SDcard, then you should see the Internal and external memory options.
How to establish a music library. You can load music files on your Galaxy S4 by moving music files from your computer to your phone. To do so, you need to do the following: 1  Download and install Samsung USB drivers to your computer. 2  Connect your phone to your computer via USB cable. 5 Parts: Play music using your Samsung Galaxy S4 Music Player Create playlists on your Samsung Galaxy S4 Edit playlists on your Samsung Galaxy S4 Questions and Answers Comments. Contents. 1  1 This is part of the VisiHow on how to use the Samsung Galaxy S4.
1 Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 2  On your phone, a USB icon will appear in the top Notification bar. 3  Drag the notification bar downwards and then tap on the Connected as a media device. 4  On the USB PC connection screen, ensure the Media device (MTP) checkbox is ticked. ii. 1  Install Samsung Kies and then launch the software on your PC. 2  Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 3  Click Music (or Videos) below a device name under Connected devices. 4  Click the + sign at the top right of the Kies screen.
You can also connect the Galaxy S4 phone with your computer using the Samsung Kies software. The Kies is official Samsung desktop software to transfer music, phone contacts and photos, update software to the Samsung galaxy phone. 1 Next, connect the Galaxy S4 using the USB cable in your computer’s USB port. 2  A prompt will show three connection modes on your Galaxy S4 device screen. 3  Here, tap on USB mass storage option. 4  Once the USB connection is made successfully, your Samsung Galaxy S4 is now connected to your computer.
The first method: Transfer music and video files from PC via USB cable. 1  Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 2  On your phone, a USB icon will appear in the top Notification bar. 3  Drag the notification bar downwards and then tap on the Connected as a media device. 1 Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 2  Click Music (or Videos) below a device name under Connected devices. 3  Click the + sign at the top right of the Kies screen. 4  If your phone has external SDcard, then you should see the Internal and external memory options.
1 Open up your PC Windows Explorer, and you should see your Galaxy S4 shows up as a removable disk. 2  Access the phone storage via Windows Explorer. 3  Here, you should see the Video and Music folders. 4  Simply drag/copy-and-paste your music or video files from your computer to the respective folders. ii. 1  Install Samsung Kies and then launch the software on your PC. 2  Connect your Galaxy S4 to your PC using the USB data cable. 3  Click Music (or Videos) below a device name under Connected devices. 4  Click the + sign at the top right of the Kies screen.