Bacterial diseases: Introduction. Bacterial diseases include any type of illness or disease caused by bacteria, a type of microbe. Microbes are tiny organisms that cannot be seen without a microscope and include viruses, fungi, and some parasites as well as bacteria. This test determines the type of bacteria causing a bacterial disease as well as which antibiotics would be most effective in treating that specific bacteria. Common samples tested with a culture and sensitivity include those from the throat, blood, and sputum from the lungs.
Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. Neisseria meningitidis causes meningitis. 
Bacterial vaginosis is a common, possibly sexually transmitted, vaginal infection in women of reproductive age. While it is healthy and normal for a vagina to have bacteria, just like the skin, mouth, or gastrointestinal (GI) tract, sometimes changes in the balance of different types of bacteria can cause problems. Here are descriptions of some of the most common and well known: Chlamydia Gonorrhea Genital Herpes HIV/AIDS Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Syphilis Bacterial Vaginosis Trichomoniasis Viral Hepatitis Chlamydia Chlamydia1 (pronounced kla-MID-ee-uh) is a common STD/STI caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis.
The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosis. 
Bacterial skin infections are usually caused by gram-positive strains of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus or other organisms. Common bacterial skin infections include: 1  Cellulitis causes a painful, red infection that is usually warm to the touch. Other Bacterial Infections. Harmful bacteria can affect almost any area of the body. Other types of bacterial infections include: 1  Bacterial meningitis is a severe infection of the meninges, the lining of the brain. 2  Otitis media is the official name for an infection or inflammation of the middle ear.
Sometimes, these infections aren't associated with any symptoms but can still cause serious damage to the reproductive system. Common STDs caused by bacterial infections include: 1  Chlamydia is an infection in men and women caused by an organism called Chlamydia trachomatis. Other Bacterial Infections. Harmful bacteria can affect almost any area of the body. Other types of bacterial infections include: 1  Bacterial meningitis is a severe infection of the meninges, the lining of the brain. 2  Otitis media is the official name for an infection or inflammation of the middle ear.
Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria, or pneumococcus, can cause many types of illnesses. Some of these illnesses can be life-threatening. Pneumococcus is the most common cause of bloodstream infections, pneumonia, meningitis, and middle ear infections in young children. You have probably heard of pneumonia, which is an infection of the lungs. Pneumonia can be caused by many different bacteria, viruses, and even fungi. Pneumococcus is one of the most common causes of severe pneumonia. Besides pneumonia, pneumococcus can cause other types of infections too, such as: 1  Ear infections. 2  Sinus infections. 