The Phonograph. In 1877 the first phonograph was invented by Thomas Edison. The phonograph was the first method of recording and playing back sound. This was Edison's first great invention. The new invention gave Edison international fame. He toured the country with the phonograph and was even invited to the White House to demonstrate the invention to President Rutherfor B. Hayes in 1878.
In 1641, the first patent in North America was issued to Samuel Winslow by the General Court of Massachusetts for a new method of making salt. On April 10, 1790, President George Washington signed the Patent Act of 1790 (1 Stat. 1 The first dishwasher was a wooden one whereby a person would turn a handle to splash water on the dishware. 2  It was invented in 1850 by Joel Houghton of Ogden, New York. 3  The device was a failure. 4  Houghton received U.S. patent #7,365 on May 14, 1850.
Introduction: In 1878, when the Hayes family lived in the White House, the great inventor, Thomas Edison, came one evening to demonstrate his new invention, the phonograph, for Lucy and Rutherford and their guests. 
On the dawn of the Renaissance in 1465 the printing press was first used to print music. By using a press a composer could organize his pieces and profit from them with great ease. It was in Greece that the first bricks in music theory's foundation were layed. Aristotle wrote on music theory scientifically, and brought about a method of notation in 350 BCE. The work of that genius is still studied today.
Music is an artistic form of sound communication via musical instruments that produce sounds and tones. Music is as old as mankind. All cultures past and present have music. The oldest known song dates back 4,000 years ago and was written in ancient cuneiform. It is not certain how or when the first musical instrument was invented, however, most historians point to early flutes made from animal bones that are at least 37,000 years old. The modern orchestral brass French horn was an invention based on early hunting horns. Horns were first used as musical instruments during 16th century operas.
In music, an invention is a short composition (usually for a keyboard instrument) with two-part counterpoint. (Compositions in the same style as an invention but using three-part counterpoint are known as sinfonias. Inventions are similar in style to a fugue, though they are much simpler. They consist of a short exposition, a longer development, and, sometimes, a short recapitulation. The key difference is that inventions do not generally contain an answer to the subject in the dominant key, whereas the fugue does.
The phonograph was invented in 1877 by Thomas Alva Edison at his laboratory in Menlo Park, New Jersey. On February 8, 1878, Edison was issued the first patent (U.S. patent #200,521) for the phonograph. 1 The first dishwasher was a wooden one whereby a person would turn a handle to splash water on the dishware. 2  It was invented in 1850 by Joel Houghton of Ogden, New York. 3  The device was a failure. 4  Houghton received U.S. patent #7,365 on May 14, 1850.
The first published notice of the invention of the valved horn was a short article published in Allgemeine musikalische Zeitung on May 3, 1815, written by composer Gottlob Benedikt Bierey (1772-1840), music director of the theater in Breslau. Stoelzel and Bluehmel blühmel wanted to make brass instruments. Chromatic the idea that the valve was invented as a mere crook changing device is a. [MYTH: Note much more information on the roots of this myth may be found In The Horn call version of this]. article
Music was never invented, it just evolved from the first time man could speak. Music has been in existence for 50,000 years and all people in the world, including some of the … most isolated tribes, have a form of music. The CD player was invented because people wanted to listen to music all around the world. so they could buy cds and keep the songs forever. in the 1700s cds became in stores. … people from around the world bought them. and they have been sold ever sinse.
This disc was taken over by nearly all markets across the globe, especially the Europe and the United States consumer market. The first successful CD to be launched was Brothers in Arms in 1985.A compact disk (CD) is a popular form of digital storage media used for computer files, pictures, and music. The plastic platter is read and written to by a laser in a CD drive. The CD player was invented because people wanted to listen to music all around the world. so they could buy cds and keep the songs forever. in the 1700s cds became in stores. … people from around the world bought them. and they have been sold ever sinse.