No. Since a school bus travels over the road it is subject to the fuel tax, unlike agricultural fuel, for example, which is dyed red and tax free. If dyed fuel is found in a … n over-the-road vehicle, the owner/operator can be subject to fines of up to $10,000 in the USA. 1 person found this useful. Answered. 
It was later established that the bus had run out of diesel. Once the bus was refuelled it carried on its journey. We will be speaking with the operator to ensure that this does not happen again.. TfL claims the new bus will be the most environmentally friendly vehicle of its kind once it enters service. The bus, which runs on a hybrid diesel-electric motor, was not refuelled before being driven from London to Millbrook Testing Ground, Bedfordshire. Transport for London (TfL) said the bus recharged its battery using energy from its brakes, but on long journeys had to run on diesel.
This means that, on average, it is taking buses more energy than it takes cars to transport a given number of individuals a given amount of distance. By using BTUs, fuel types are normalized by converting to energy per volume. See Table 2.5 in Chapter 2 (LINK) for a breakdown of fuel type usage by vehicle type. 
Propane, also known as liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), or autogas, is considered an alternative fuel under the Energy Policy Act of 1992. According to the Propane Education and Research Council, there are more than 143,000 on-road propane vehicles in the United States. 
The new bus was to take advantage of this knowledge by being much lighter than conventional London buses of the time but still having more seats (64 compared to 56). It was also wider than its contemporaries (2.43 metres compared with 2.28 metres), giving more room for the conductor and passengers. The New Routemaster draws inspiration from its iconic predecessor, which was first unveiled 60 years ago on 24 September 1954 at the Earl's Court Commercial Motor Exhibition.
The water powered bus is an environmentally-friendly mode of public transport, which is overwhelmingly favoured by environmentally-concerned commuters around the world. Communist commuters, on the other hand, just don't care. Neither does George W. Bush. The bus runs on a 47% mixture of heavy water and ordinary water, utilising the effects of  gravity . As the heavier water settles to the bottom of the fuel tank, it simultaneously displaces the lighter water (this is known as the  Eureka! Effect ).
All of London's buses use the London iBus system, an Automatic Vehicle Location system that provides passengers with audio visual announcements, and are able to trigger priority at traffic junctions. The system was on trial in 2006, and had been extended to almost all bus routes by 2009. It was formed pursuant to the Greater London Authority Act 1999 that transferred control of Greater London's bus services from National Government's London Regional Transport to the Mayor of London.
It runs on human poop and food waste. The U.K.'s first bio-bus is powered by biomethane gas, which is generated through the treatment of sewage. With a full tank, the bus can travel up to 186 miles, while producing up to 30% fewer emissions compared to diesel-powered buses. The eco-friendly bus started regular service on Monday and is expected to carry around 10,000 passengers a month between the Bristol airport and the historic town of Bath.
Image caption The bus had been displayed in London over the weekend. The new prototype London Routemaster bus ran out of fuel on a motorway, just days after being formally unveiled. The New Bus for London had to pull over on Monday after warning lights came on. The bus, which runs on a hybrid diesel-electric motor, was not refuelled before being driven from London to Millbrook Testing Ground, Bedfordshire. Transport for London (TfL) said the bus recharged its battery using energy from its brakes, but on long journeys had to run on diesel.
People who want to celebrate Earth Day week by commuting in a vehicle powered by a cleaner-burning fuel should hop on the bus. More than a third of the nation's city transit buses are now powered by fuels other than diesel. About half the agency's 60 fixed-route buses are diesel-electric hybrids, meaning they run on diesel at start-up, then switch to electric power. The system has seen a 24% decrease in fuel usage by the hybrids compared with its diesel buses.