Like other insurers, Cigna typically won't pay for genetic tests that don't provide a medical benefit to the patient. You don't test for testing's sake, says Susan Pisano, a spokesperson for America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group. A test for an Alzheimer's gene is among those not usually covered. Alastair Grant/AP. After genetic testing revealed a heightened risk for breast cancer, Angelina Jolie had a precautionary double mastectomy. The day when a simple blood test or saliva sample can identify your risk for medical conditions ranging from cancer to Alzheimer's disease seems tantalizingly close.
Some people may choose not to use their insurance to pay for testing because the results of a genetic test can affect a person’s health insurance coverage. Instead, they may opt to pay out-of-pocket for the test. Genetic testing is a type of medical test that identifies changes in chromosomes, genes, or proteins. The results of a genetic test can confirm or rule out a suspected genetic condition or help determine a person’s chance of developing or passing on a genetic disorder.
Genetic testing, also known as DNA testing, allows the genetic diagnosis of vulnerabilities to inherited diseases, and can also be used to determine a child's parentage (genetic mother and father) or in general a person's ancestry or biological relationship between people. 1 In many cases, genetic testing is used to confirm a diagnosis when a particular condition is suspected based on physical mutations and symptoms. 2  Diagnostic testing can be performed at any time during a person's life, but is not available for all genes or all genetic conditions.
Genetic testing is the process of using medical tests to look for changes (mutations) in a person’s genes or chromosomes. Hundreds of different genetic tests are used today, and more are being developed. Genetic testing for diseases that can be inherited Genetic testing can be used in different situations. The type of testing most often used to check for cancer risk is called predictive gene testing. It’s used to look for gene mutations that might put a person at risk of getting a disease. The obvious benefit of genetic testing is the chance for a better understanding of your risk for a certain disease. Testing is not perfect, but it can often help you make decisions about your health. A negative result on a genetic test in families at risk for a specific cancer may help relieve anxiety or uncertainty.
Initial genetic testing for mutations on the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, which typically serve as tumor suppressors, costs roughly $4,000 when not covered by insurance, according to Myriad Genetics, the only laboratory that analyzes the tests. Carriers of the BRCA gene mutation have up to an 85% chance of getting breast cancer and a 60% chance of getting ovarian cancer in their lifetime, according to FORCE, a nonprofit for people affected by hereditary breast and ovarian cancers.
In many cases, health insurance plans will cover the costs of genetic testing when it is recommended by a person’s doctor. Health insurance providers have different policies about which tests are covered, however. A person interested in submitting the costs of testing may wish to contact his or her insurance company beforehand to ask about coverage. Some people may choose not to use their insurance to pay for testing because the results of a genetic test can affect a person’s health insurance coverage. Instead, they may opt to pay out-of-pocket for the test. People considering genetic testing may want to find out more about their state’s privacy protection laws before they ask their insurance company to cover the costs
The cost of genetic testing can range from under $100 to more than $2,000, depending on the nature and complexity of the test. The cost increases if more than one test is necessary or if multiple family members must be tested to obtain a meaningful result. For newborn screening, costs vary by state. Genetic testing is a type of medical test that identifies changes in chromosomes, genes, or proteins. The results of a genetic test can confirm or rule out a suspected genetic condition or help determine a person’s chance of developing or passing on a genetic disorder.
Testing costs and turnaround times vary. Genetic test results are usually ready in three to four weeks. Though genetic testing costs are often paid for by insurance carriers, patients may be required to pay some or all of the cost when the test is ordered. 