CAN IT HARM MY DOG OR CAT? During spay or neuter surgery, cats and dogs are fully anesthetized, so they feel no pain. Afterwards, most animals seem to experience some discomfort, but signs of discomfort disappear within a few days, and with pain management medication, pain may not be experienced at all. We check-in all patients at the same time. We have a very strict surgical schedule that must be followed so it is very important that you arrive on time. If you are late we may need to re-schedule your appointment. Plan to be here 20-30 minutes in the morning.
The effects of anaesthetic drugs appear to purely occur when the drug is in your body and have no long term effects. Regardless of how long an operation you have or how many anaesthetics you have, if you do not have a problem during the operation, there is no evidence to suggest that you could have a late effect. No link between any diseases (like cancer) and anaesthesia has ever been shown. 
If the food gets ahead of the insulin, your dog’s blood sugar can rise too far too fast. A tie is what you want-food and insulin being delivered in balance, giving your dog a steady supply of glucose in a good range throughout the day. This is an example of a good balance of food and insulin in a diabetic dog. 
Neutering dogs – Bitch spay operation: a step by step guide. by Jenny Sheriff BVM&S MRCVS on January 4, 2011. Deciding whether to spay. Spaying or neutering a female dog is not a small operation, so owners should think carefully about all the pros and cons before deciding. Before going to the surgery. Before any anaesthetic the patient should be starved for a number of hours, according to the instructions of the surgery. This prevents any problems with vomiting which could be dangerous. It is also a good idea to allow the dog enough exercise to empty the bladder and bowels.
Ten weeks. Puppies and kittens should be 8 weeks of age and must be eating and drinking on their own prior to their mother's surgery. Be sure that lactating animals do not nurse for at least two weeks before the day of their surgery. Q. CAN ANIMALS HAVE FOOD OR WATER THE NIGHT BEFORE SURGERY? Adult Animals: All animals over four months must have food withdrawn the night before surgery at 12:00 midnight. We check-in all patients at the same time. We have a very strict surgical schedule that must be followed so it is very important that you arrive on time. If you are late we may need to re-schedule your appointment. Plan to be here 20-30 minutes in the morning.
1 Cats usually need to be held for 24 hours after surgery, depending on recovery speed. 2  Cats can be returned to the trapping site 12-24 hours following surgery as long as they are fully awake and do not require further medical attention. In some cases, females may need 48 hours of recovery, depending on their specific circumstances.
Expert: Dr. Bob replied 4 years ago. Hello, I'm Dr. Bob. Generally a twelve to eighteen hour fast is recommended prior to general anesthesia. At my clinic No food after supper time the night before anesthesia is the rule. The reasoning for this is that sometimes anesthesia upsets their stomachs, and vomiting while under anesthesia can be extremely dangerous. Water is much less of a problem, but even with water, a dog should not be allowed to consume a large quantity shortly be fore being anesthetized. If you should have further questions, please let me know. Ask Your Own Dog Veterinary Question. Customer: replied 4 years ago.
FERAL CAT PROTOCOL 1. Operation PETS will do our best to fit a feral cat into our surgery schedule (Monday, Tuesday and Thursday). Trapping should coincide with our clinic s ability to spay/neuter so the cats don t remain in their traps for long. Cats can be returned to the trapping site 12-24 hours following surgery as long as they are fully awake and do not require further medical attention. In some cases, females may need 48 hours of recovery, depending on their specific circumstances.
Confidence votes 22. Most vets will tell you not to put food down the night before they go in. It's about the same as a person when they go for surgery. Usually 12 hours before. Any food in your system and the anestetics could make you sick. Usually people stop feeding their dogs at around 9pm or 10pm but still allow them to drink water.