Continents are very large landmasses found on Earth. The Earth has seven such continents. They are (from largest in size to the smallest): Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe and Australia. Asia-Asia is the world’s largest and most populous continent on Earth. It covers 30% of the Earth’s land area.
They are Eurasia (because look first what a continent is), Africa, North America, South America, Australia and Antarctica. And there are 6 main parts of the world: Europe, Asia, America (whole, north and south continents), Africa, Australia/Oceania, Antarctica. I was also taught that there is 7 continents. North America, South America, Africa, Australia, Europe, Asia and Antarctica. Considering North and South America as one is new to me but an interesting idea. I’ve heard of Eurasia in the past but figured it was like new math. They changed it for a new generation
Report Abuse. 7 continents is what I was taught: Africa, Asia, Europe, Australia, Antartica, North America, South America. In Europe, they say there are six continents combining North and South America.(Australia, America, Antartica, Africa, Asia, Europe.) Scientists and geographers combine Asia and Europe. (Eurasia, North America, S. America, Australia, Antartica, Africa)
There is no standard definition for the number of continents but you will commonly find that the numbers six or seven are used. Many consider there to be seven continents-Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, and South America. European Division of Continents. Many scientists now refer to six continents, where Europe and Asia are combined (since they're one solid geologic landmass) as Eurasia. Thus, these six continents are Africa, Antarctica, Australia, Eurasia, North America, and South America.
Report Abuse. I believe there are 6 continents. They are North America, South America,Africa,Australia,Antarctica and Eurasia. Yes I was taught in shool that there were 7 continents but a look at any map will show that Europe and Asia are one single land mass and the seperation one Asia from Europe is a mountain range. I want to know how many continents you guys think there are, and can you name them. He says 5: Americas, Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia I say 7: North and South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia, and Antartica Just curious to...
There are seven 7 continents in the world. Continent means one of the principal land masses of the earth.If you count Europe and Asia continent as one continent (Eurosia) there are 6 continents .There are several number of continents as you can think.
In Europe and other parts of the world, many students are taught of six continents, where North and South America are combined to form a single continent of America. Thus, these six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, and Europe. I am informed that in France, it is not taught that Antarctica is a continent and thus there are five continents for French students. By Matt Rosenberg. A continent is one of several major land masses on the earth. European Division of Continents. Many scientists now refer to six continents, where Europe and Asia are combined (since they're one solid geologic landmass) as Eurasia. Thus, these six continents are Africa, Antarctica, Australia, Eurasia, North America, and South America.
A continent is one of several very large landmasses on Earth. They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents. These are (from largest in size to smallest): Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia. 