A gerund phrase is a group of words consisting of a gerund and the modifier(s) and/or (pro)noun(s) or noun phrase(s) that function as the direct object(s), indirect object(s), or complement(s) of the action or state expressed in the gerund, such as: The gerund phrase functions as the subject of the sentence. 1 A gerund is a verbal ending in-ing that is used as a noun. 2  A gerund phrase consists of a gerund plus modifier(s), object(s), and/or complement(s). 3  Gerunds and gerund phrases virtually never require punctuation.
To determine whether a word or phrase is functioning as a gerund versus a present participle, try replacing it with the word something. If something works in the sentence, then the word or phrase is a gerund. Sometimes a word or phrase appears to be a verb when, in fact, it’s something else. It’s important to look at the function that a word or phrase plays in a sentence before determining its part of speech.
Gerund Phrase. Sometimes a word or phrase appears to be a verb when, in fact, it’s something else. It’s important to look at the function that a word or phrase plays in a sentence before determining its part of speech.
Definition. A gerund is a verbal that ends in-ing and functions as a noun. Adjective: gerundial or gerundival. The term gerund is used in traditional grammar. Many contemporary linguists prefer instead to use the term-ing form. A gerund accompanied by its objects, complements, and/or modifiers is called a gerund phrase or simply a noun phrase. Like nouns, gerunds and gerund phrases can function as subjects, objects, and complements in a sentence. Unlike nouns, however, gerunds do not take inflections; in other words, they don't have distinct plural forms.
Recognize a gerund phrase when you see one. A gerund phrase will begin with a gerund, an ing word, and will include other modifiers and/or objects. Gerund phrases always function as nouns, so they will be subjects, subject complements, or objects in the sentence. Read these examples: Eating ice cream on a windy day can be a messy experience if you have long, untamed hair. Eating ice cream on a windy day = subject of the verb can be.
A gerund phrase is a group of words consisting of a gerund and the modifier(s) and/or (pro)noun(s) or noun phrase(s) that function as the direct object(s), indirect object(s), or complement(s) of the action or state expressed in the gerund, such as: The gerund phrase functions as the subject of the sentence. Points to remember: 1  A gerund is a verbal ending in-ing that is used as a noun. 2  A gerund phrase consists of a gerund plus modifier(s), object(s), and/or complement(s). 3  Gerunds and gerund phrases virtually never require punctuation.
Don't mistake a present participle phrase for a gerund phrase. Gerund and present participle phrases are easy to confuse because they both begin with an ing word. The difference is the function that they provide in the sentence. 
A gerund is a verb form that ends in-ing. A gerund phrase includes the gerund, plus any modifiers and complements. Gerunds and gerund phrases always function as nouns. They can act as subjects, direct objects, indirect objects, predicate nominatives, or objects of a preposition in a sentence. Sometimes a word or phrase appears to be a verb when, in fact, it’s something else. It’s important to look at the function that a word or phrase plays in a sentence before determining its part of speech.
Gerunds. A gerund is a verbal that ends in-ing and functions as a noun. The term verbal indicates that a gerund, like the other two kinds of verbals, is based on a verb and therefore expresses action or a state of being. 1 A gerund is a verbal ending in-ing that is used as a noun. 2  A gerund phrase consists of a gerund plus modifier(s), object(s), and/or complement(s). 3  Gerunds and gerund phrases virtually never require punctuation.
Gerund and present participle phrases are easy to confuse because they both begin with an ing word. The difference is that a gerund phrase will always function as a noun while a present participle phrase describes another word in the sentence. Check out these examples: Gerund phrases always function as nouns, so they will be subjects, subject complements, or objects in the sentence. Read these examples: Eating ice cream on a windy day can be a messy experience if you have long, untamed hair. Eating ice cream on a windy day = subject of the verb can be.