it should be noted that the ratio of 93% quartz 7% resin for quartz countertops is a ratio by weight as quartz is much heavier than resin, ratio by volume which is a more true measurement is approx. 66% quartz 34% resin that is why it is susceptible to burning and or discoloration from excessive heat. A slab of granite is usually priced starting at $60 a square foot but the prices rise quickly from that point on. For quartz countertops, you’ll generally be paying anywhere from $67 up to $95 per square foot. For a 28 ft.² counter made of quartz you’ll have to budget for approximately $2200 – $3100.
Consequently, quartz countertops are cleaner and more resilient against bacteria and stains. Quartz and Granite are both extremely strong materials. However, a quartz countertop is the more durable of the two, ranking second only to diamonds when comparing the hardness and scratch resistance of materials. Diamond is rated at 10, quartz is rated at 7. Quartz is a harder and stronger material. Granite has veins, movement, and natural color patterns which make it a more beautiful surface than most quartz countertops.
Durability: Granite is often cited as the most durable natural countertop material available and is known for resisting cracks and chips. As a manmade material, quartz rates a bit higher on the hardness scale and is slightly more resistant to damage. Granite. When choosing countertops for the kitchen or bathroom, many homeowners prefer the look of stone, which offers a nearly endless array of unique colors and patterns. Granite is a natural stone and is one of the most popular countertop materials on the market. Quartz is a manufactured composite that replicates the look of stone and is growing in popularity. Use this simple guide to discover which of these beautiful materials is right for you
Even though quartz is the 2nd most available mineral found in the earth's crust, what we know of as a quartz countertop is actually produced in a factory. When comparing quartz vs granite countertops, it is important to note that quartz countertops have a typical mixture of 93% quartz and 7% polyester resin. An additional consideration when comparing quartz vs granite countertops is price. Quartz is generally 30% to 50% more expensive than granite. However, if you are considering purchasing a rare and premium variation of granite, the price gap may be equal or considerably less. Quartz is more expensive for several reasons:
1 With quartz you have a stone that is stronger than granite, marble and many other common natural stones. 2  This guarantees KOVASTONE is a surface that truly will last a lifetime and beyond. 3  Maintenance Free-No sealing, polishing or reconditioning is needed. 4  Simply wash with warm water. 1 Strength & Durability-KOVASTONE Natural Quartz Surfaces™ is made largely from quartz stone. 2  With quartz you have a stone that is stronger than granite, marble and many other common natural stones. 3
Quartz countertops are also highly durable and strong. They are made by combining 93% natural crushed quartz with a 7% resin binder and colorant. This makes them stronger than both granite and marble. Quartz is also highly stain resistant. 
Drawing from the beauty and strength of natural quartz stone, KOVASTONE has created a countertop surface that is more durable than granite or marble. You will appreciate both the stain, scratch and heat-resistant properties as well as the collections of beautiful colors. 1 Strength & Durability-KOVASTONE Natural Quartz Surfaces™ is made largely from quartz stone. 2  With quartz you have a stone that is stronger than granite, marble and many other common natural stones. 3  This guarantees KOVASTONE is a surface that truly will last a lifetime and beyond.
As with granite, quartz countertops also have their own sets of drawbacks and benefits that go along with them. 1  Quartz countertops are just as strong as granite but have the added benefit of being more flexible. 2  This makes them easier to work with during the installation process. A slab of granite is usually priced starting at $60 a square foot but the prices rise quickly from that point on. For quartz countertops, you’ll generally be paying anywhere from $67 up to $95 per square foot. For a 28 ft.² counter made of quartz you’ll have to budget for approximately $2200 – $3100.