NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN GRASSLANDS. The climate in the Australian grasslands is very tropical. It tends to be an average of 18C (64F) in the winter but temperatures remain well over 28C (80° F) in the summer. Australian savannas receive only 18 inches (46 centimeters) of rain a year. The summer is considered the rainy season. As you move from east to west, the rainfall in the prairies decreases. Being located far from the moderating effects of oceans causes a wide range of temperatures, with hot summers and cold winters. The climate of the prairies is also influenced by the sheltering effect of the Rocky Mountains.
The line that divides the Earth into the Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere is equator. The Northern Hemisphere includes all of North America, the northern parts of South America, about two-thirds of Africa, all of Asia excluding (parts of Indonesia) and all of Europe. 1 The Northern Hemisphere has almost 90% of the land and the Southern Hemisphere has 90% water. 2  So most of the world population lives in Northern Hemisphere. 3  When its is summer in the Northern Hemisphere, its winter-time in Southern Hemisphere. 4  Moon seems to be upside down in the
Tropical savanna climate or tropical wet and dry climate is a type of climate that corresponds to the Koeppen köppen climate classification Categories aw And. as In essence, a tropical savanna climate tends to either see less rainfall than a tropical monsoon climate or have more pronounced dry seasons. There are generally four types of tropical savanna climate: 1  One form of the tropical savanna climate features distinct wet and dry seasons of relatively equal duration.
The continents making up the Southern Hemisphere include all of Antarctica, around 1/3 of Africa, most of South America and nearly all of Australia. Because of the large presence of water in the Southern Hemisphere, climate in the Earth's southern half is more mild overall than the Northern Hemisphere. Population and the Southern Hemisphere. Because the Southern Hemisphere has less land area than the Northern Hemisphere it should be noted that population is less in Earth's southern half than in the north.
Nearly half of Africa is covered with savannas. But savannas can also be found in South America, Asia and even Australia. However, the diversity of plants and animals are not quite as high in other regions as in the African savannas. 
Tropical savanna climates are most commonly found in Africa, Asia and South America. The climate is also prevalent in sections of Central America, northern Australia and southern North America, specifically in sections of Mexico and the state of Florida in the United States. In essence, a tropical savanna climate tends to either see less rainfall than a tropical monsoon climate or have more pronounced dry seasons. There are generally four types of tropical savanna climate: 1  One form of the tropical savanna climate features distinct wet and dry seasons of relatively equal duration.
Typical tropical savanna in Northern Australia demonstrating the high tree density and regular spacing characteristic of many savannas. A savanna or savannah is a grassland ecosystem characterised by the trees being sufficiently widely spaced so that the canopy does not close. Savannas maintain an open canopy despite a high tree density. It is often believed that savannas feature widely spaced, scattered trees. However, in many savannas, tree densities are higher and trees are more regularly spaced than in forest.
Savannas are also characterised by seasonal water availability, with the majority of rainfall confined to one season; they are associated with several types of biomes, and are frequently in a transitional zone between forest and desert or grassland. Savanna covers approximately 20% of the Earth's land area. Savannas maintain an open canopy despite a high tree density. It is often believed that savannas feature widely spaced, scattered trees. However, in many savannas, tree densities are higher and trees are more regularly spaced than in forest.
There are two different kinds of grasslands: tropical and temperate. Grasslands in the southern hemisphere tend to get more precipitation than those in the northern hemisphere. Some grasses grow more than 7 feet (2 meters), and have roots extending several feet into the soil. Tropical grasslands are warm year round, but usually have a dry and a rainy season.
Animals. Climate. Return to Savanna. The African Savanna biome is a tropical grassland in Africa between latitude 15° North and 30 degrees S and longitude 15 degrees W and 40° West.