PQR's are not required if Standard Welding Procedures are used, see below for details. This document contains details of the welding test, it must include details of all the parameters listed as variables in tables QW250 to QW265 for each process involved and all the destructive test results. The relevant variables for each type of welding process are clearly defined in tables QW250 to QW265.
Procedure Qualification Record (PQR). PQR's are not required if Standard Welding Procedures are used, see below for details. All variables listed as essential, non-essential or supplementary should be addressed on both the WPS and the PQR. The thickness little 't' of deposited weld metal for each process involved is approved from 0 to 2xt except:-. This document contains details of the welding test, it must include details of all the parameters listed as variables in tables QW250 to QW265 for each process involved and all the destructive test results.
A WPS can combine welding processes from other PQR's but all the relevant variables must be addressed including parent metal thickness. There is an exception to this rule for root runs from PQR's that are greater than 1.5 inches thick (38.1mm), see code for details. Standard Welding Procedures Specifications (SWP's). The thickness little 't' of deposited weld metal for each process involved is approved from 0 to 2xt except:-. This document contains details of the welding test, it must include details of all the parameters listed as variables in tables QW250 to QW265 for each process involved and all the destructive test results.
All this information is documented on Welding Procedure Specification (WPS), Procedure Qualification Record (PQR), Welding Procedure Qualification Record (WPQR), and associated Test Reports. 1 Once the test is completed the necessary forms have to be completed by you or the test body and signed by the test body’s surveyor. 2  Note that any changes that require a new welding procedure (WPS) may also apply to the welders approval, refer to the referencing code/ standard for precise details.
A Welding Procedure Specification (WPS) is a formal written document describing welding procedures, which provides direction to the welder or welding operators for making sound and quality production welds as per the code requirements. The AWS defines welding PQR as a record of welding variables used to produce an acceptable test weldment and the results of tests conducted on the weldment to qualify a Welding Procedure Specification. For steel construction (civil engineering structures) AWS D1.1 is a widely used standard.
This document details the practical application of the Procedure Qualification Record (PQR). It should contain enough information to give direction to the welder and should address all variables associated with the welding process defined in QW250 including non essential and supplementary. The thickness little 't' of deposited weld metal for each process involved is approved from 0 to 2xt except:-. This document contains details of the welding test, it must include details of all the parameters listed as variables in tables QW250 to QW265 for each process involved and all the destructive test results.
The Welding Procedure Qualification Record is the document that qualifies the Welding Procedure Specification. In order to qualify your WPS, a procedure qualification plate is welded the code requirements. The actual test parameters are recorded at the time of welding to ensure the WPS was being followed. Foreword. On this website I will give you information about Piping general, and welding is an important part in piping. But I am not an welding expert and therefore my information is shortly and described only three welding procedures, the basic welding joints and the three often used welding processes.
The purpose of the document is to guide welders to the accepted procedures so that repeatable and trusted welding techniques are used. A WPS is developed for each material alloy and for each welding type used. Specific codes and/or engineering societies are often the driving force behind the development of a company's WPS. A WPS is supported by a Procedure Qualification Record (PQR or WPQR). A PQR is a record of a test weld performed and tested (more rigorously) to ensure that the procedure will produce a good weld. The AWS defines welding PQR as a record of welding variables used to produce an acceptable test weldment and the results of tests conducted on the weldment to qualify a Welding Procedure Specification. For steel construction (civil engineering structures) AWS D1.1 is a widely used standard.