Note: One thing I failed to mention earlier for those of you that aren't aware, Be Our Guest is a quick service/counter service restaurant by day (@ lunch) and a sit down restaurant by night (dinner)... Before you are directed to a kiosk a cast member will give you a plastic rose which is the size of a hockey puck. So, on this particular day we got in line at Be Our Guest Restaurant around 11:00 and the line wasn't real bad at this time, it had just curved around the front walkway. I was hearing how the line went all the way down past bridge by this time but not on this day.
Counter-Service (fast-casual) for breakfast and lunch, then Table Service (sit down) for dinner Breakfast and lunch are unique at Be Our Guest Restaurant in that guests can make Advanced Dining Reservations for this Counter Service experience. 
Be Our Guest is on the Disney Dining Plan, as a quick service credit for breakfast and lunch and a table service credit for dinner. The restaurant's three dining rooms can serve a total of 550 guests between the elegant ballroom setting, the mysterious West Wing of the Beast's castle or the stunning Rose Gallery. Counter service is available during the day, and the restaurant becomes table service at night. However, lunch is unlike any other quick service location on property, in that you order your food and then have it delivered to your table on china plates instead of the usual paper.
Be Our Guest-Lunch-Counter Service. We are usually late eaters, late breakfast, late lunch, late dinner, etc. We wished that more WDW restaurants served breakfast after 11 and lunch after 2, but that's not the case. So, on this particular day we got in line at Be Our Guest Restaurant around 11:00 and the line wasn't real bad at this time, it had just curved around the front walkway. I was hearing how the line went all the way down past bridge by this time but not on this day.
Be Our Guest is a very unique restaurant because it is a quick service restaurant for breakfast and lunch, but table service for dinner. Breakfast is the newest change to Be Our Guest, as it is only recently that you make lunch reservations. Breakfast and Lunch are considered 1 quick service entitlement on the Disney Dining Plan and dinner will take 1 table service credit. If you want to eat at Be Our Guest, make a reservation as far in advance as possible, it is one of the most popular restaurants in Walt Disney World.
Thanks to my colleague Zanna DiMarzio from Zannaland, for sharing her lunchtime counter-service experience at Be our Guest Restaurant. We love her honest take on things at the Magic Kingdom’s newest restaurant. To read a Be Our Guest Restaurant Dinner Review, click here. I have been lucky enough to walk through the Beauty and the Beast-themed Be Our Guest Restaurant a few times since “Dress Rehearsals” first began for New Fantasyland.