According to the National Wood Flooring Association (NWFA) , wood floor acclimation is “the process of adjusting (conditioning) the moisture content of wood flooring to the environment in which it is expected to perform”.
Moisture content in wood is not a time thing. You need a moisture meter not a clock. When the wood gets within 2% to 4% of the sub floor then it is ready to be installed. I like nearer to 2%. Each location has its own environment and the wood must acclimate to that environment.
There is a common misconception among contractors that if you bring wood flooring into the workplace and let it sit for a few days, it will acclimate properly and be ready to install. This is a big mistake that costs flooring contractors time and money.
Learn how to choose the best wood flooring for your remodeling project, while getting answers to the top questions asked about hardwood. 11 of 1. Like most people who have looked into buying a hardwood floor, you probably already know it will add beauty, comfort, and value to your home.
In order to make a proper judgment call on how much time is needed to acclimate your wood flooring, you need to have a baseline and know what the moisture content of wood flooring is when it is delivered.
A hardwood flooring installation takes time, precision, and know-how to get it right. Even for experienced DIYers, hardwood installations can be challenging. A lot depends on your ability to take the time to learn what you need to know to properly install a hardwood floor, so that it will look and perform beautifully.
Before installation of your new hardwood floor begins, you must acclimate the wood floor to the normal environment the wood will be present in from day-to-day.
All hardwood products are affected by environmental conditions. Acclimate the new flooring in the areas to be installed to normal lived-in conditions while in the boxes. If products are protected in plastic open the ends of the boxes. Length of time is not the determining factor.
For solid hardwood flooring, both unfinished and prefinished, acclimation is a must. The same thing for laminate flooring. Keep it in the house for at least 48 hours prior to installation. The negative effects of not acclimating your hardwood floors before installation can be either buckling or gaps between the boards.