Christopher Harris. Reports appeared in the British tabloid media Saturday morning that Liverpool FC owner John W Henry wants to sell his prized asset for £350million just three years after taking over the Anfield club. “They went into this to make money but the club hasn’t got into Europe, flopped in the league and spent well over £100m on transfers,” says a source. Here are tonight’s world soccer news headlines: Premier League. 1  John W Henry wants to sell Liverpool for £350m just 3 years after taking over club — The Mail. 2  Hull City confirm the arrival of Yannick Sagbo from Evian — Sky Sports. 3  Arsenal prepare new bid for Luis Suarez suárez As liverpool stay silent on — Talks The.  guardian
Even with the clubs plans to redevelop Anfield to a 60,000 stadium with improved corporate hospitality, don’t expect reduced ticket prices any time soon, just look at Arsenal if you want a lesson on how ticket prices will rise out of control. Obviously, it’s an extremely emotive subject, but Liverpool as a club and it’s supporters could do much worse than at least be involved in the discussion and open to the idea. For more information around safe standing visit the Football Supporters Federation.
THE ANFIELD WRAP was recently invited to put some questions on an email to owner John W Henry. Of course we asked the stadium question – here’s his answer: Back in the real world, what John Henry is saying is that the marketing of the LFC brand worldwide will probably draw in more nett cash than a vanity project like the new stadium. There’s nothing wrong with Anfield that a careful development plan wouldn’t fix.
Jurgen Klopp favourite for Liverpool job after Brendan Rodgers is sacked as manager on dramatic Merseyside derby day. 1  Brendan Rodgers has left Liverpool after a difficult start to the new season despite big spending. 2  The Anfield side are 10th in the Premier League with just three wins and drew at Everton on Sunday. comments. Brendan Rodgers was sacked on Sunday after Liverpool’s owners took ‘the difficult decision’ to look for a new manager. Jurgen Klopp is now the hot favourite to succeed Rodgers, who was told in a phone call by Mike Gordon — the president of Fenway Sports Group — that his three-year reign was over.
There’s been quite a bit of fawning when he has yet to play a football match in England, never mind win one. Jurgen Klopp has a big task awaiting him at Anfield. Liverpool need to get their belief and confidence back, and feel – actually, this guy is being given a responsibility, and it’s a privilege. It is almost as if Liverpool have to impress Jurgen Klopp. It should be the other way round. But there would also be pressure on him. Here, it’s almost as if Liverpool Football Club feels blessed to have him-and I’m uncomfortable with that. Klopp's Borussia Dortmund side were a joy to watch. I’m all for optimism.
“The allure of a new stadium and/or refurbishment is no different at Anfield then it is anywhere in the world. New stadiums increase revenues primarily by raising ticket prices – especially premium seating. “In America, as an example, 3 NFL (American football) clubs have moved into new stadiums over the past 3 years. Back in the real world, what John Henry is saying is that the marketing of the LFC brand worldwide will probably draw in more nett cash than a vanity project like the new stadium. There’s nothing wrong with Anfield that a careful development plan wouldn’t fix.
1 John W Henry wants to sell Liverpool for £350m just 3 years after taking over club — The Mail. 2  Hull City confirm the arrival of Yannick Sagbo from Evian — Sky Sports. 3  Arsenal prepare new bid for Luis Suarez suárez As liverpool stay silent on — Talks The.  guardian “They went into this to make money but the club hasn’t got into Europe, flopped in the league and spent well over £100m on transfers,” says a source. Here are tonight’s world soccer news headlines: Premier League. 1  John W Henry wants to sell Liverpool for £350m just 3 years after taking over club — The Mail.
The first in a series of articles discussing safe standing; John Ritchie explains why Liverpool fans should at least be part of the discussion. It was a cold November evening at Anfield; Hodgeball was in full swing on Merseyside and Napoli had dominated Liverpool in the first half of the Europa league game. Obviously, it’s an extremely emotive subject, but Liverpool as a club and it’s supporters could do much worse than at least be involved in the discussion and open to the idea. For more information around safe standing visit the Football Supporters Federation.
Liverpool owner John Henry took the decision to sack Rodgers following a poor start to the season on all fronts from the Anfield club. Liverpool will not appoint a caretaker manager as they expect the new man to be in charge for the trip to Tottenham on October 17. comments. Brendan Rodgers was sacked on Sunday after Liverpool’s owners took ‘the difficult decision’ to look for a new manager. Jurgen Klopp is now the hot favourite to succeed Rodgers, who was told in a phone call by Mike Gordon — the president of Fenway Sports Group — that his three-year reign was over.