Because making a wedding cake takes several days (ideally, you leave each stage to dry completely), Rosalind has kindly done the “easy” part – ha – of making the cake and covering it with a base layer of marzipan, before I arrive. 
Using a ruler as a guide, center the cardboard and gently lower it onto the frosted surface. Use a toothpick to lightly mark around the cardboard. Remove cardboard. To make dowel supports for this tier, carefully push a 1/4-inch-thick dowel into the center of the bottom tier and mark the height of the cake on the dowel. Remove the dowel and use clean pruning or other heavy-duty shears to cut the dowel on the mark. Cut seven more dowel pieces the same length
Bake the 6 pans in the oven for 25-30 minutes. Bake the 8 pans in the oven for 35-40 minutes. Bake the 10 pans in the oven for 55-60 minutes. Allow each to cool completely on a wire rack before proceeding to coat in buttercream. Attach one 6 cake layer to the 6 cake board, using a swipe of buttercream to glue it to the board. Learn how to make a wedding cake in this three part wedding cake recipe series. In this part, we review how to bake and wedding cake and how to frost the wedding cake with homemade icing. Part 2: http://youtu.be/FnUaF9Br5UI.
It couldn’t come from me, since my version of how to bake a wedding cake is “Find local bakeshop that will quote you something under $500. Order.” So we turned to the lovely wedding grad Vilija of Love, V. Her husband baked their (stunningly and simple) cake, and her Lazy Girls How-To is excellent (and never boring). When we re-launched the APW How-To series, one of the first things on the menu (pun intended, I am totally hilarious) was to get a How-To bake a wedding cake post.
Foundation. For bottom cake tier, fill and frost the two largest cake layers in the center of a covered cake board that is about 4 inches larger than the cake, being sure to smooth frosting on top and sides. Use a sturdy cake board, such as 1/2-inch-thick plywood. Remove cardboard. To make dowel supports for this tier, carefully push a 1/4-inch-thick dowel into the center of the bottom tier and mark the height of the cake on the dowel. Remove the dowel and use clean pruning or other heavy-duty shears to cut the dowel on the mark.
You should use a recipe specifically designed to be a wedding cake as it will ensure that it is sturdy enough, and that it makes the right amount of batter and icing. For this article, we used this recipe from epicurious.com. It makes three tiers of 12, 9 and 6, as well as a massive amount of icing. On the last page of this step-by-step is a schedule for when you will need to bake and assemble each part. When ready, first assemble all of the tools you will need: 1  All ingredients for baking and icing the wedding cake.
 make sure the large wedding cake pans will fit in your oven. pans up to 14-inches fit in most built-in ovens, while 16-inch pans require a standard 30-inch oven.  for even heat flow, bake the cake in the center of the oven. for even cake layers, make sure the oven racks are level. Wedding Cake recipe bake at 325°f using bake times listed above, or until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean.Cool cake layers in pans 30 minutes on wire rack. Carefully remove cakes from pans. Cool completely with top sides up on wire racks.
The chart tells how many cups of batter for each size pan and the baking temp and time. 16 and 14..............325F for 55-60 minutes. 12 and 10...............350F for 35/40 minutes. 8...............350F for 30/35 minutes. Here is a link to this chart. I use it all the time and find it very helpful and accurate. 
Answer by Antonia74. Confidence votes 3. To bake, fill, ice & decorate a wedding cake can take anywhere from 12 hours to many days to complete. It depends on how large it is, how many tiers it is comprised of, how detailed the icing/pattern is on the exterior, etc. 
Step 1: About two days before the wedding, bake the wedding cakes. Let the cakes cool for 30 minutes, then run a knife around the inside of the pan, turn pan upside down and slide cakes out. They will still be slightly warm. Step 9: Adding a monogram: 5 to 30 minutes, depending on your previous experience. If you were to make this wedding cake for a Saturday afternoon wedding, you might bake the cakes on Thursday night, then on Friday spend an hour completing steps 2-4.