Old English came from proto-Germanic (the long-dead language that gave rise to today's Germanic languages) … . Proto-Germanic came from proto-Indo-European, which is the ancestor of most of the languages spoken in Europe, India, and some nearby areas.
It went from Old English to Middle English to today's English. Old English came from proto-Germanic (the long-dead language that gave rise to today's Germanic languages) … . Proto-Germanic came from proto-Indo-European, which is the ancestor of most of the languages spoken in Europe, India, and some nearby areas.
English is considered a Germanic language, yet over 60 percent of  all English words have Latin or Geek roots, and a whopping 90-plus  per … cent of science and technology jargon is based in Latin or  Greek.
Confidence votes 12.0K. The earliest records we have about the language spoken in England date from about 600. Anything before that is an educated guess. Some words in a variety of languages sound similar: the English daughter sounds like the German tochter. These words have a common origin in Indo-European.
In the early 5th century, several Germanic tribes called Saxons settled in Britain, and their languages became Old English or Anglo-Saxon. Christianity came to the British Isles at the end of the 6th century, and brought Latin, which rapidly replaced Old English as the language of the educated and ruling classes.
English is a West Germanic language brought to Britain by German invaders some 1,500 years ago. German in turn comes from Latin, which is an Italic language derived from Greek and Phoenician. These, in turn, belong to what is known as the Indo-European superfamily of languages.
Latin-derived languages-as their name suggest-have their origin in the Latin language, which falls under the Italic languages. English on the other hand (as German, Dutch … and the Scandinavian languages) has its origin in the German
English belongs to the Germanic family of Indo-European languages. Old English (also known as Anglo-Saxon) had two main dialects. The Anglic dialect gave its name to the language, but the Saxon dialect eventually evolved into Modern English.
The history of the English language really started with the arrival of three Germanic tribes who invaded Britain during the 5th century AD. These tribes, the Angles, the Saxons and the Jutes, crossed the North Sea from what today is Denmark and northern Germany.