You need to burn the top layer of stomach fat to see the changes. Cardio exercises will heat up your core temperature and improve circulation, both of which will aid in acquiring a flat stomach. Strive for at least 30 minutes a day minimum, but include 1-2 days of rest each week.
The truth is that in order to get a flat belly you need to take 3 steps. Each of these steps can be broken into mini-steps, but overall, it is these 3 things which determine how much belly fat you have and how your stomach looks.
A flat stomach is a prized possession to those who have one; it is wanted by those who do not have one. To get a flat stomach, you need to first make the decision to do it which takes discipline. Once you have done that, you can make it happen by adjusting your diet and performing exercise.
You are not going to get a flat stomach if all you do is hundreds of crunches. The only way to reduce fat around your stomach is to burn off your total body fat. As you only have one week I would not advise embarking on a complex workout regime. You do not have the time for your body to learn lots of new exercises.
Report Abuse. Hi, If you really want to get a flat belly you must watch this video at http://www.startflatbelly.com to learn how you can lose belly fat and get six pack abs in a short period of time. It will blow your mind. I was able to lose the belly fat and get ripped in only 6 weeks.
2. Eat healthier. There's no real secret when it comes to having a flat-tummy friendly diet — you simply need to eat more healthy foods like fruit, veg, and whole grains, and cut down on junk food, like candy, chips and fast food. Just by making this simple switch, you'll see a world of difference to your stomach.
Step 1. Reduce your daily intake by 500 calories. To get a flat stomach, you must lose weight. To lose a pound, it takes a reduction of 3,500 calories. By reducing your daily intake by 500 calories, you can lose a pound a week.
How to Get a Flat Stomach in a Week. Four Methods: Eating to Flatten Your Stomach Drinking to Flatten Your Stomach Exercising to Flatten Your Stomach Creating the Illusion of a Flat Stomach. You've got a big event, a bloated stomach and just one week to get that belly as flat as you can.