An Omnibus Customer Securities Account is a securities account used by a brokerage firm or its affiliated clearing firm in order to maintain appropriate custody of underlying securities for the purpose of satisfying the custody obligations of the broker-dealer towards its customers. 
Ad. An alternative to an omnibus account is a “street account” in which the investor leaves the stock holding in the name of the broker. This kind of account can cause problems with direct stockholder participation, but it does make some kinds of investments more convenient. No, an omnibus account definition is not the same as a hedge fund definition, though both vehicles do use multiple investors or partnerships.
Definition. An account carried by a Futures Commission Merchant (FCM) that combines the transactions of two or more individuals and is held in the name of another FCM. Compare to Fully Disclosed Account
Orcadeal. Post 2. No, an omnibus account definition is not the same as a hedge fund definition, though both vehicles do use multiple investors or partnerships. It is important to mention that omnibus accounts can be linked to either a hedge or mutual fund, but are otherwise different entities
Omnibus account. An account carried by one futures commission merchant with another futures commission merchant in which the transactions of two or more persons are combined and carried in the name of the originating broker, rather than designated separately. Related: Commission house. 
Omnibus account: An account in which money or securities for more than one beneficial owner are commingled by a custodian or a sub-custodian. 
An omnibus account is formed when a brokerage firm groups together individual accounts to form a unified account at another brokerage firm. Omnibus accounts are popular in futures trading, and they open up new markets and opportunities for a brokerage firm's client base. The omnibus account structure achieves high economies of scale by allowing a firm to cluster trades from multiple brokerages into a single, unified account. Omnibus accounts are also popular because individual clients prefer to use the same firm, whether trading locally or internationally.
DEFINITION of 'Omnibus Account'. An account between two futures merchants (brokers). It involves the transaction of individual accounts which are combined in this type of account, allowing for easier management by the futures merchant. Next Up
An omnibus account is a kind of stock holding account where multiple investors are involved. This account is managed by a futures manager (sometimes called a money manager or stock broker). It is the job of this money manager to use the account to trade on behalf of all the different investors. For example, when we say that a book is an omnibus we mean that it contains a collection of stories possibly by different authors. An omnibus account is also one thing that contains a number of different things, but in this case it is
omnibus account. An account carried by a Futures Commission Merchant (FCM) that combines the transactions of two or more individuals and is held in the name of another FCM. Compare to Fully Disclosed A