The movie was extremely profitable, earning $161.5 million in North America alone. This was Sandler's second film to eclipse $120 million worldwide in 1998 along with The Wedding Singer. The film grossed $185,991,646 worldwide from a $20 million budget. Regardless, the film has garnered a large cult following since its release, and is often regarded by its fans as the most quotable of Sandler's movies.
In the USA, a water boy (sometimes spelled waterboy) is someone who works on the sidelines and provides water or other drinks to athletes. The phrase has also been used to described diminutive figures who serve another team or person in the business and political worlds, in a slightly derogatory manner (ex. 
The Waterboy is a 1998 film starring Adam Sandler and Henry Winkler. Sandler plays Bobby Boucher (pronounced Boo-SHAY), a socially inept (but also intelligent), stuttering waterboy with hidden anger issues due to constant teasing and his mother's (Kathy Bates) excessive sheltering. 
De Land, USA - 1 film locations. 1  Bobby Boucher, played by Adam Sandler, and his girlfriend Vikki Valencourt (Fairuza Balk) come out of the college building after Bobby passes his high school equivalency test in order to play in the finale bowl game. 1 Bobby Boucher, played by Adam Sandler, and his girlfriend Vikki Valencourt (Fairuza Balk) come out of the college building after Bobby passes his high school equivalency test in order to play in the finale bowl game.
1 Rob Schneider as The Townie; Schneider reprises the role in Adam Sandler's 2000 film Little Nicky, despite being made by New Line Cinema; in turn, Sandler plays the same townie in Schneider's film The Animal. The film grossed $185,991,646 worldwide from a $20 million budget. Regardless, the film has garnered a large cult following since its release, and is often regarded by its fans as the most quotable of Sandler's movies.
Scheduled for a fall 1998 release, The Waterboy is the second major film to be shot in Lake in as many years.The Palatlakaha River Park set of The Waterboy is tightly closed and has a ring of deputies keeping curiosity seekers and reporters at bay. County Set For 2nd Close-up. By Ramsey Campbell of The Sentinel Staff, January 28, 1998. For the first time since Rosewood, movie crews will be setting up their cameras in Lake County to film key scenes for the new Adam Sandler comedy The Waterboy.
Obviously they've lived in a cave and never seen an Adam Sandler movie before. You don't watch Adam Sandler for a cerebral workout. You'll never see him starring opposite Anthony Hopkins or Merryl Streep. Okay, I realize his IS cast opposite Oscar-Winner Kathy Bates, but don't confuse me with details. Storyline. Bobby Boucher is the lowly waterboy for a college football team, until the coach discovers his amazing talent for tackling people much bigger than him. He signs the Waterboy as the new star player, but Bobby must keep it secret from his overbearing and domineering mother. Written by Travis Kennedy.
Please try again later. The Waterboy is a 1998 American sports film directed by Frank Coraci, and starring Adam Sandler, Kathy Bates, Fairuza Balk, Henry Winkler, Jerry Reed, Larry Gilliard, Jr., Blake Clark, Peter Dante and Jonathan Loughran. Release date: November 6, 1998 (USA). Director: Frank Coraci. MPAA rating: PG-13. Music: Alan Pasqua.
The Waterboy was mostly filmed in the Central Florida and Orlando area as well as around Daytona Beach, DeLand, Florida, Lakeland, Florida, and surrounding areas. The Mud Dogs home games were filmed at Spec Martin Stadium in DeLand, Florida, home of the local high school team (the DHS Bulldogs). The film grossed $185,991,646 worldwide from a $20 million budget. Regardless, the film has garnered a large cult following since its release, and is often regarded by its fans as the most quotable of Sandler's movies.