Renaissance is translated from the original French as “rebirth.” The historical period known as the Renaissance was so named because it signaled the reemergence of humanism, which was the belief in the intellectual potential and overall experience of humankind. 
The great intellectual movement of Renaissance Italy was humanism. The humanists believed that the Greek and Latin classics contained both all the lessons one needed to lead a moral and effective life and the best models for a powerful Latin style. 
THE RENAISSANCE AND HUMANISM  The Period from the 1300s to the 1500s was a time of great creativity and change in Europe. This period is called the Renaissance which means “rebirth”.  It was a golden age in the arts, literature, and science.  The Renaissance began in Italy in the mid-1300s and then spread northward.  The cities of Italy were thriving centers of trade and manufacturing.
Renaissance humanism was an intellectual movement in Europe of the later Middle Ages and the Early Modern period. The 19th-century German historian Georg Voigt (1827–91) identified Petrarch as the first Renaissance humanist. Yet it was from the Renaissance that modern Secular Humanism grew, with the development of an important split between reason and religion. This occurred as the church's complacent authority was exposed in two vital areas.
Renaissance Humanism Humanism is the term generally applied to the predominant social philosophy and intellectual and literary currents of the period from 1400 to 1650.
During the Renaissance Era, humanism became a central motif for painters, sculptors, and artists of the like. In the artistic periods prior, such as the Medieval Era, the content of most works was religious-based. In the High Renaissance, we start to slowly move away from this. Another influence of humanism on art of the Renaissance is the passing of representing haloes over holy figures. This also shows the receding religious values during the time.
The terms for this movement Renaissance (rinascimento rebirth) and humanist (whence modern humanism; also Renaissance humanism to distinguish it from later developments grouped as humanism) are contemporary to that period. Humanism was a pervasive cultural mode and not the program of a small elite, a program to revive the cultural legacy, literary legacy, and moral philosophy of classical antiquity.
Humanism is the study of classical antiquity, at first in Italy and then spreading across Western Europe in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries. Humanism was a pervasive cultural mode and not the program of a small elite, a program to revive the cultural legacy, literary legacy, and moral philosophy of classical antiquity.
Renaissance Humanism. The time when the term Humanism was first adopted is unknown. It is, however, certain that both Italy and the re-adopting of Latin letters as the staple of human culture were responsible for the name Humanists..
Renaissance humanism was a response to the utilitarian approach and what came to be depicted as the narrow pedantry associated with medieval scholasticism. Humanism was a pervasive cultural mode and not the program of a small elite, a program to revive the cultural legacy, literary legacy, and moral philosophy of classical antiquity.