DRUG DESCRIPTION. A white powder for reconstitution. MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350, NF) is a synthetic polyglycol having an average molecular weight of 3350. The actual molecular weight is not less than 90.0 percent and not greater than 110.0 percent of the nominal value. Stop taking polyethylene glycol 3350 and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  severe or bloody diarrhea; 2  bleeding from your rectum; 3  blood in your stools; or. 4  severe and worsening stomach pain, cramping, or bloating.
A: Miralax (Polyethylene Glycol 3350) is a laxative that increases the amount of water in the intestines. Miralax is used to treat occasional constipation and irregular bowel movements. Measure the dose of Miralax with the medicine cap on the bottle. A: Miralax (polyethylene glycol) is an osmotic laxative used to treat constipation. Miralax works by bringing water into the stool which softens the stool and helps it to be passed. Miralax is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for occasional constipation
The product information for MiraLAX states that this laxative should not be used for more than seven days. Although some people may need to use it for a longer period, it is a good idea to check with your healthcare provider before using the medicine long-term. If your healthcare provider recommends that you take MiraLAX for longer than seven days, you may disregard the label directions that warn against this.
If you are prescribed the individual packets, mix the powder as directed by your doctor or pharmacist. If you are using the bulk bottle, use the provided cap to measure the prescribed dose. Mix the powder with a glass (4-8 ounces/120-240 milliliters) of liquid such as water, juice, soda, coffee, or tea. Before drinking the solution, stir the powder well until it completely dissolves. This medication is used to treat occasional constipation. It works by holding water in the stool to soften the stool and increases the number of bowel movements. It is known as an osmotic-type laxative.
An Introduction to Dosing With MiraLAX. The recommended dosage of MiraLAX for treating occasional constipation is 17 grams (about one heaping tablespoon) of powder dissolved in four to eight ounces of liquid and swallowed once a day. Although some people may need to use it for a longer period, it is a good idea to check with your healthcare provider before using the medicine long-term. If your healthcare provider recommends that you take MiraLAX for longer than seven days, you may disregard the label directions that warn against this.
The usual dose is 17 grams (about 1 heaping tablespoon) of powder per day (or as directed by physician) in 4 to 8 ounces of water. Each bottle of MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350 - otc) is supplied with a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of laxative powder when filled to the indicated line. One to 3 days (24 to 72 hours) may be required to produce a bowel movement. Directions. 1  Do not take more than directed, unless advised by your doctor. In powdered form, for oral administration after dissolution in water. MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350 - otc) is available in two sizes; a 8.3 oz. container and a 4.1 oz. container of laxative powder.
If you are using the multidose bottles, use the cap of the bottle to measure the correct amount of powder. Look for the dose line on the cap. Although MiraLAX is not officially approved to treat constipation in children, it is sometimes used off-label for this reason. Although some people may need to use it for a longer period, it is a good idea to check with your healthcare provider before using the medicine long-term. If your healthcare provider recommends that you take MiraLAX for longer than seven days, you may disregard the label directions that warn against this.
MiraLAX is the brand name for the generic drug polyethylene glycol 3350,a laxative used to treat occasional constipation. The drug works by bringing water into the bowels, which helps keep the digestive system regular. Stool becomes softer when the bowels retain water. A: Miralax (polyethylene glycol) is an osmotic laxative used to treat constipation. Miralax works by bringing water into the stool which softens the stool and helps it to be passed. Miralax is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for occasional constipation