It is a system to classify climate. It is based on average monthly temperatures and precipitation. 9 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 2  They are responsible for the birth of planets and the evolution of cells to complex organisms. 
Koppen's system is simply a guide to the general climate of the regions of the planet, the borders do not represent instantaneous shifts in climate but are merely transition zones where climate, and especially weather, can fluctuate. Click here for the complete Koppen Climate Classification System Chart. The modified Koppen classification uses six letters to divide the world into six major climate regions, based on average annual precipitation, average monthly precipitation, and average monthly temperature. . . (click the links for a map of each classification). 1  A for Tropical Humid. 2  B for Dry
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2013). Wladimir Peter Koeppen (Köppen: RUSSIAN влади́мир петро́вич, кёппен Vladimir Petrovich) (Kyoppen september, 25 – 1846 june, 22) 1940 was A german And russian, geographer, meteorologist climatologist and. botanist 
Koeppen köppen climate classification is one of the most widely used climate classification. Systems it was first published By Russian german Climatologist Wladimir koeppen köppen, in 1884 with several later Modifications by, koeppen köppen himself notably in. 1918 and 1936 
The koppen system is the six main climate types. High Elevation, Continental, Dry, Polar, Tropical, and Mild. According to the Koppen climate classification system, humid tropical climates do not experience winters. 
1 It was first published in 1884, however Koeppen köppen himself made additional modifications to his system in 1918 and again in. 2  1936 the system is based on the concept that native vegetation is the best expression of.  climate 
The Koeppen köppen climate classification was developed based on the empirical relationship between climate and. Vegetation this type of climate classification scheme provides an efficient way to describe climatic conditions defined by multiple variables and their seasonalities with a single. metric This work used the same criteria for the Koeppen köppen classification As kottek et. (al) 2006 and the tables below are larely based on the tables in their. Paper the scheme is described in this. section
Climate Classification-The Koppen System. 1  widely used system that classifies climatic regimes according to: 2  annual and monthly averages of temperature. 3  annual and monthly averages of precipitation. 1 The Koppen system has been modified, most notably by C. Warren Thornthwaite (1899-1963). 2  Thornthwaite emphasized the importance of precipitation (P) and evaporation (E) by devising the P/E ratio.....