Prednisone is a synthetic corticosteroid drug that is particularly effective as an immunosuppressant drug. It is used to treat certain inflammatory diseases (such as moderate allergic reactions) and (at higher doses) some types of cancer, but has significant adverse effects. Prednisone has also been used in the treatment of migraine headaches and cluster headaches and for severe aphthous ulcer. Prednisone is used as an antitumor drug.
A: Prednisone is in a drug class called corticosteroids. Prednisone is used alone or combined with other medicines to treat symptoms of having low corticosteroid levels in the body. Corticosteroids are natural hormones produced by the body that are necessary for the body to function normally. Prednisone is used for a variety of conditions including skin conditions, allergy conditions, asthma, and inflammation. Side effects associated with prednisone include sleep problems, dry skin, dizziness, nausea, and changes in the shape of body fat.
Prednisone is a corticosteroid (cortisone-like medicine or steroid). It works on the immune system to help relieve swelling, redness, itching, and allergic reactions. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. 
A: Prednisone is a medication that is in the class of medications called steroids that are used to treat inflammation and to suppress immune system responses. The prescribing information does not list muscle cramps as a common side effect of prednisone. Prednisone is used for a variety of conditions including skin conditions, allergy conditions, asthma, and inflammation. Side effects associated with prednisone include sleep problems, dry skin, dizziness, nausea, and changes in the shape of body fat.
Prednisone is a medication designed to prevent the release of substances in the body that can cause inflammation, thereby lowering redness and swelling. Alcohol can also exacerbate the mental effects of prednisone, as it is a depressant. It can also increase irritation to the gastrointestinal system, as well as lowering the immune system. Combining alcohol and prednisone can worsen the possibility of any of the listed side effects.
Prednisone is a corticosteroid (cortisone-like medicine or steroid). It works on the immune system to help relieve swelling, redness, itching, and allergic reactions. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. This product is available in the following dosage forms: 1  Tablet. 2  Syrup. 
A: Prednisone (Deltasone) is classified as a corticosteroid medication. Prednisone works in the body by preventing the release of substances that are responsible for causing inflammation. Prednisone is used to treat various medical conditions including gout. Prednisone is used for a variety of conditions including skin conditions, allergy conditions, asthma, and inflammation. Side effects associated with prednisone include sleep problems, dry skin, dizziness, nausea, and changes in the shape of body fat.
Prednisone is a synthetic corticosteroid drug which is usually taken orally and can be used for a large number of different conditions. It has a mainly glucocorticoid effect. Prednisone is a prodrug that is converted by the liver into prednisolone, which is the active drug and a steroid. This medication is particularly effective as an immunosuppressant and affects virtually all of the immune system.
It can treat low corticosteroid levels, or other conditions in patients with normal corticosteroid levels, such as allergic disorders, skin conditions, ulcerative colitis, arthritis, lupus, psoriasis, and breathing disorders. Prednisone can also be used to treat the symptoms of certain types of cancer. Alcohol can also exacerbate the mental effects of prednisone, as it is a depressant. It can also increase irritation to the gastrointestinal system, as well as lowering the immune system. Combining alcohol and prednisone can worsen the possibility of any of the listed side effects.
Long-term use of any steroid, including prednisone, can cause bone loss or osteoporosis. The risk is higher in smokers, those who do not exercise, and those with vitamin D/calcium deficiencies. These are important factors to weigh with your doctor. Alcohol can also exacerbate the mental effects of prednisone, as it is a depressant. It can also increase irritation to the gastrointestinal system, as well as lowering the immune system. Combining alcohol and prednisone can worsen the possibility of any of the listed side effects.