Introduction. Sarcoidosis is a rare condition that causes small patches of red and swollen tissue, called granulomas, to develop in the organs of the body. It most often affects the lungs and skin. Typical symptoms include tender, red bumps on the skin, shortness of breath and a persistent cough. However, every person is affected differently and symptoms depend on which organs are affected.
Sarcoidosis is an inflammatory disease that affects multiple organs in the body, but mostly the lungs and lymph glands. In people with sarcoidosis, abnormal masses or nodules (called granulomas) consisting of inflamed tissues form in certain organs of the body. These granulomas may alter the normal structure and possibly the function of the affected organ(s).
Sarcoidosis, also called sarcoid, is a disease involving abnormal collections of inflammatory cells (granulomas) that can form as nodules in multiple organs. Sarcoidosis seems to be caused by an immune reaction to an infection or some other trigger (called an antigen) that continues even after the initial infection or other antigen is cleared from the body.
The symptoms of sarcoidosis can vary greatly, depending on which organs are involved. Most patients initially complain of a persistent dry cough, fatigue, and shortness of breath. Other symptoms may include: 1  Tender reddish bumps or patches on the skin. 2  Red and teary eyes or blurred vision. 3  Swollen and painful joints. 4  Enlarged and tender lymph glands in the neck, armpits, and groin. In people with sarcoidosis, abnormal masses or nodules (called granulomas) consisting of inflamed tissues form in certain organs of the body. These granulomas may alter the normal structure and possibly the function of the affected organ(s).
1 When sarcoidosis affects the lungs, it can be referred to as lung sarcoidosis or pulmonary sarcoidosis. 2  When sarcoidosis affects the liver, it can be referred to as hepatic sarcoidosis. 3  When sarcoidosis affects the skin, it can be referred to as skin sarcoidosis or sarcoid dermatitis. 
Sarcoidosis almost always involves the lungs, but it can also affect the skin, eyes, nose, muscles, heart, liver, spleen, bowel, kidney, testes, nerves, lymph nodes, joints, and brain. Granulomas in the lungs can cause narrowing of the airways and inflammation and scarring (fibrosis) of lung tissue. SARCOIDOSIS CAUSES. The cause of sarcoidosis is not known. One theory suggests that it develops when a genetically susceptible person is exposed to specific environmental agents. Sarcoidosis is a disorder that causes tiny nodules (granulomas) of inflamed tissue to develop in the body's organs. These nodules can join together, forming larger nodules that interfere with normal body functions such as breathing.
Overview. Sarcoidosis can affect any organ in your body. However, it's more likely to affect some organs than others. The disease usually starts in the lungs, skin, and/or lymph nodes (especially the lymph nodes in your chest). Also, the disease often affects the eyes and liver.
In very few cases, sarcoidosis can be life-threatening if it causes heart or severe lung disease. If your symptoms last more than 2 years despite treatment, your disease is considered chronic, and the symptoms may worsen your quality of life. Learn About Sarcoidosis. Sarcoidosis is a disease of unknown origin that can cause lung damage, skin rashes, and eye disease and can affect other organs of the body.
Sarcoidosis leads to organ damage in about one-third of the people diagnosed with the disease. Damage may occur over many years and involve more than one organ. Rarely, sarcoidosis can be fatal. Death usually is the result of problems with the lungs, heart, or brain. Poor outcomes are more likely in people who have advanced disease and show little improvement from treatment. However, it's more likely to affect some organs than others. The disease usually starts in the lungs, skin, and/or lymph nodes (especially the lymph nodes in your chest). Also, the disease often affects the eyes and liver.