Drinking a large amount of alcohol, even for just a few days, can lead to a build-up of fats in the liver. This is called alcoholic fatty liver disease, and is the first stage of ARLD. Fatty liver disease rarely causes any symptoms, but it's an important warning sign that you're drinking at a harmful level. Fatty liver disease is reversible. If you stop drinking alcohol for two weeks, your liver should return to normal.
Alcoholic liver disease: Symptoms. Many people with alcoholic liver disease experience no symptoms in the early stage of the disease. However, if excessive consumption of alcohol is not stopped, the disease can advance and damage liver tissue resulting in symptoms and serious complications. Fatty liver is the first stage of alcoholic liver disease.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is a term used to describe the accumulation of fat in the liver of people who drink little or no alcohol. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is common and, for most people, causes no signs and symptoms and no complications. But in some people with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, the fat that accumulates can cause inflammation and scarring in the liver.
Symptoms may include loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fever and jaundice. Liver enzymes are elevated and tests of liver function may be abnormal. Up to 35 percent of heavy drinkers develop alcoholic hepatitis and of these 55% already have cirrhosis. Alcoholic hepatitis can be mild or severe. Many heavy drinkers will progress from fatty liver disease to alcoholic hepatitis to alcoholic cirrhosis over time. However, some heavy drinkers may develop cirrhosis without first having alcoholic hepatitis first.
Between 10 and 20 percent of heavy drinkers develop cirrhosis. Symptoms of cirrhosis may be similar to those of severe alcoholic hepatitis. Cirrhosis is the most advanced type of alcohol-related liver disease and is not reversed with abstinence. Many heavy drinkers will progress from fatty liver disease to alcoholic hepatitis to alcoholic cirrhosis over time. However, some heavy drinkers may develop cirrhosis without first having alcoholic hepatitis first.
Search Now. Find a Gastroenterologist Near You. Symptoms of alcoholic liver disease include abdominal pain, tenderness, jaundice (yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes), fatigue, and nausea. After cirrhosis has developed, fluid buildup (edema) in the legs and fluid collection in the abdomen (ascites) are common. Alcohol can damage the liver, leading to inflammation (alcoholic hepatitis) and swelling of the liver. Over time, this inflammation and damage progress to form scar tissue, resulting in cirrhosis
Alcoholic liver disease is a serious condition that will continue to get worse if alcohol consumption is not discontinued, along with other essential treatment. Late-stage symptoms can also include confusion and mental status changes, excitability, impaired memory, and difficulty with movement. Alcohol can damage the liver, leading to inflammation (alcoholic hepatitis) and swelling of the liver. Over time, this inflammation and damage progress to form scar tissue, resulting in cirrhosis
Liver disease. Alcohol-related liver disease is a range of conditions and associated symptoms that develop when the liver becomes damaged due to alcohol misuse. In this video, consultant hepatologist Mark Wright talks about how avoiding alcohol can help those with the condition. This is called alcoholic fatty liver disease, and is the first stage of ARLD. Fatty liver disease rarely causes any symptoms, but it's an important warning sign that you're drinking at a harmful level. Fatty liver disease is reversible. If you stop drinking alcohol for two weeks, your liver should return to normal.