How it Works: Description: The defrost control board determines how often to run the defrost cycle. If the board fails, the refrigerator will not go into the defrost cycle. Before replacing the defrost control board, first test the defrost heater and defrost thermostat. If the defrost heater and defrost thermostat are working properly, the defrost control board is likely defective. Control board with bracket.
Video answering a question about a refrigerator's defrost cycle. This video answers the question of how often does a refrigerator go into defrost. If you have questions about appliances that you want an answer to, leave them in the comment section below. 
Every so often, the refrigerator has to go through a defrost cycle to melt this ice that continues to build up on the coils from the moisture in the air. If the refrigerator has a defrost problem and will not melt the ice, it eventually builds up to the point that it blocks airflow. Adaptive defrost system. If you determine that your refrigerator has a defrost problem and it has an adaptive defrost system, this section will help. 1. Since you cannot force the refrigerator into a defrost cycle on most models, go ahead and unplug the refrigerator. 2
How it Works: The defrost control board determines how often to run the defrost cycle. If the board fails, the refrigerator will not go into the defrost cycle. Before replacing the defrost control board, first test the defrost heater and defrost thermostat. If the defrost heater and defrost thermostat are working properly, the defrost control board is likely defective. If the defrost sensor fails to shut off the defrost heater, the fuse will blow in order to shut off the defrost heater. If the defrost sensor fuse blows, the defrost system will not work, and the refrigerator will not defrost.
Given your symptoms, it is likely that the defrost timer has failed. The refrigerator does have a defrost timer that causes the unit to go into a defrost cycle every 10 hours of cumulative compressor run time. The defrost cycle will normally take about 30 minutes. The unit staying in defrost to long is an unusual problem. A normal defrost time would be 25 minutes. Usually the unit will fail to enter defrost or fails to come out of defrost. Staying in defrost to long is not a norm
Some refrigerators have an Adaptive Defrost Control. This is what makes a refrigerator energy efficient. It varys the length of time it takes the machine to go into defrost. So instead of the energy hogging heater coming on every eight hours, it may be 24 hours, 18 hours, 10.5 hours, who knows. It depends on how many times you have opened the doors, how long the compressor has run. This is good because the refrigerator may not need to go into defrost every eight hours. When the refrigerator is in defrost there is a heater that is tied into the evaporator coils inside the freezer that comes on. This heater is behind the rear panel inside the freezer where the evaporator coils are located.
During the cooling mode, the defrost timer closes a contact to the compressor circuit so it will run. The circuit to the defrost heater is open. While in this mode, the thermostat (a.k.a. cold control) cycles the compressor and fan motors on and off to maintain an appropriate temperature. The timer remains in the defrost cycle until the timer advances back to the cooling mode. Since the limit switch is open, the heaters are no longer on for the rest of the cycle. When the timer again advances back into the cooling mode, the compressor will start to run along with any air circulation fans.
The timer remains in the defrost cycle until the timer advances back to the cooling mode. Since the limit switch is open, the heaters are no longer on for the rest of the cycle. Cooling Cycle When the timer again advances back into the cooling mode, the compressor will start to run along with any air circulation fans. The timer remains in the defrost cycle until the timer advances back to the cooling mode. Since the limit switch is open, the heaters are no longer on for the rest of the cycle.