Kyrie, a transliteration of Greek κύριε (Kyrie), vocative case of κύριος (Kyrios), on whose meaning see Kyrios (biblical term) , is a common name of an important prayer of Christian liturgy, also called the Kyrie eleison /ˈkɪəri.eɪ ɨˈleɪ.ɨsɒn/ (Greek: κύριε, ἐλέησον, Kýrie eleison, . eléison Kyrie, a transliteration of Greek κύριε (Kyrie), vocative case of κύριος (Kyrios), on whose meaning see Kyrios (biblical term) , is a common name of an important prayer of Christian liturgy, also called the Kyrie eleison /ˈkɪəri.eɪ ɨˈleɪ.ɨsɒn/ (Greek: κύριε, ἐλέησον, Kýrie eleison, . Eléison. contents
Kyree is an alternate spelling of Kyrie, which is of Greek origin and means the Lord. The meaning of a person's name can make them feel more noble or comfortable with who they are... being named after someone can cause a lot of introspection and either rebellion against that example, or close following of the same.
Latin Meaning: The name Kyra is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Kyra is: Light. American Meaning: The name Kyra is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kyra is: Light. Greek Meaning: The name Kyra is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Kyra is: Enthroned. (moon); Feminine of Cyrus:. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. View the Kyree Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kyree has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kyree to other names.
[ syll. ky-ree, kyr-ee ] The baby boy name Kyree is pronounced as K IH R- †. Kyree is used predominantly in the Arabic language and it is also derived from Arabic origins. Kyree is a variation of the name Kyrie (Arabic). Kyree is somewhat popular as a baby boy name. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 2010s. At the modest height of its usage in 2012, 0.014% of baby boys were given the name Kyree. It had a ranking of #804 then
See worldwide popularity rankings of Kyree as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby boy name, Kyree is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. The following chart shows the popularity of the name Kyree in the USA, over the past 100 years. USA baby name statistics. You'll need the Adobe Flash Player and a browser with JavaScript enabled to see all baby name popularity charts. The following names are baby names related to Kyree and are suitable names for brothers and sisters of Kyree: Boys-Raheem, Rahim, Girls-Roxana, Both genders-Esther. Variants. Popular Variants for the name Kyree: Kyrea, Kyren, Kyrey, Kyri, Kyrin, Kyron, Kyrun, Kyry, Kyryn. The name Kyree is itself a variant of Kyran.
Kyree is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ky-ree. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 832 in baby name popularity for boys with 269 occurrences. It ranked 3045 in popular baby names for girls with 55 occurrences. View the Kyree Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kyree has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kyree to other names.
The name Kyree has the following meaning: A powerful warlord. Also an Irish name that means a dark skinned man. Also a variation of the Greek name Kyra meaning noble. It is a male name, suitable for baby boys. Origins. Kyree originates from the Persian language. The following names are baby names related to Kyree and are suitable names for brothers and sisters of Kyree: Boys-Raheem, Rahim, Girls-Roxana, Both genders-Esther. Variants. Popular Variants for the name Kyree: Kyrea, Kyren, Kyrey, Kyri, Kyrin, Kyron, Kyrun, Kyry, Kyryn. The name Kyree is itself a variant of Kyran.
A person would be called by the word for an animal or force of nature in orde … r to bring valued attributes to that person. Later names described something about a person and referred to what they did, what they looked like or where they came from. As a result, most names derive from a word with some meaning. However, in many cases the knowledge of that meaning is lost in everyday usage ad is merely an interesting but trivial piece of information, not expected to reflect any actual aspect of the person using the name. The meaning of a person's name can make them feel more noble or comfortable with who they are... being named after someone can cause a lot of introspection and either rebellion against that example, or close following of the same.