Lisbon (/ˈlɪzbən/ ; Portuguese: Lisboa, [liʒˈboɐ]) is the capital and the largest city of Portugal, with a population of 552,700 within its administrative limits in an area of 100.05 km². Its urban area extends beyond the city's administrative limits with a population of around 2.7 million people, being the 11th-most populous urban area in the European Union. Lisbon is also home to the Lisbon Architecture Triennial, the Moda Lisboa (Fashion Lisbon), ExperimentaDesign – Biennial of Design and LuzBoa – Biennial of Light. In addition, the mosaic Portuguese pavement (Calcada Calçada) portuguesa was born In, lisbon in the-mid. 1800s
Trains reach most larger cities from Lisbon to Porto, Braga, Aveiro, Coimbra, Evora, Faro. Lisbon is connected to Madrid, Spain; Porto to Vigo Spain; Vilar Formoso to Spain, France and the rest of Europe. In the South it is not possible to enter Portugal from Spain. There are no train connections from i.e. Sevilla to Faro. The only option is to use buses, there are many.
Lisbon is Europe's second-oldest capital (after Athens), once home to the world's greatest explorers like Vasco da Gama, Magellan and Prince Henry the Navigator, becoming the first true world city, the capital of an empire spreading over all continents, from South America (Brazil) to Asia (Macao, China; Goa, India). 
Lisbon is Portugal's capital and the hub of a multifaceted area that appeals to different tastes and senses. In a city that has been influenced by many different far-off cultures over time, there is still a village feel in each historic neighbourhood. 
Braga-an ancient city in northern Portugal. capital of Portugal, Lisboa, Lisbon-capital and largest city and economic and cultural center of Portugal; a major port in western Portugal on Tagus River where it broadens and empties into the Atlantic. Oporto, Porto-port city in northwest Portugal; noted for port wine. Setubal-a port city on the Atlantic coast of Portugal to the southeast of Lisbon. Lusitania-ancient region and Roman province on the Iberian Peninsula; corresponds roughly to modern Portugal and parts of Spain.
Lisbon [Lisboa] is the capital city of Portugal [A Republica República]. portuguesa Lisbon city does not have a beach, but Lisbon Metropolitan Area does have beaches. Lisbon Metropolitan Area is a territorial zone that includes 18 municipalities (being one o … f them the Lisbon city municipality). This means that the urban area of Lisbon extends beyond the administrative city limits.
Lisbon [Lisboa] is the capital city of Portugal [A Republica República]. Portuguesa it also is the largest city In. portugal Lisbon city does not have a beach, but Lisbon Metropolitan Area does have beaches. Lisbon Metropolitan Area is a territorial zone that includes 18 municipalities (being one o … f them the Lisbon city municipality). This means that the urban area of Lisbon extends beyond the administrative city limits.
It's Portuguese that's spoken in the Portuguese capital city of Lisbon [Lisboa]. Portuguese is the official language of Portugal. In 1999 Mirandese [lingua mirandesa] was gran … ted co-official recognition as a regional language in local matters. But Mirandese isn't spoken in Lisbon. Lisbon city does not have a beach, but Lisbon Metropolitan Area does have beaches. Lisbon Metropolitan Area is a territorial zone that includes 18 municipalities (being one o … f them the Lisbon city municipality). This means that the urban area of Lisbon extends beyond the administrative city limits.
Lisbon is one of the oldest cities in the world, and the oldest in Western Europe, predating other modern European capitals such as London, Paris and Rome by centuries. Julius Caesar made it a municipium called Felicitas Julia, adding to the name Olissipo. Lisbon is also home to the Lisbon Architecture Triennial, the Moda Lisboa (Fashion Lisbon), ExperimentaDesign – Biennial of Design and LuzBoa – Biennial of Light. In addition, the mosaic Portuguese pavement (Calcada Calçada) portuguesa was born In, lisbon in the-mid. 1800s