Products Platinum Clad Anodes. Anomet Products is the leader in platinum clad anodes (platinized anodes). Anomet Platinum Clad Anodes feature all the ingredients necessary for a long life, cost effective, anode material. A low consumption rate material metallurgically bonded to a corrosion resistant inert anodic oxide forming substrate with the flexibility of high conductivity or high strength core materials. Anomet 100Ti is a platinum clad (platinized) anode material with a solid titanium core. Anomet 100Ti is available as a stock item in both single and 2-1/2 times platinum thicknesses.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Some jewelry is made from sterling silver and given a thin plating of platinum, often referred to as platinum clad. A coating with rhodium Gives Jewelry the appearance of platinum
Platinum-clad sterling silver jewelry allows you to have all the wonderful shine and durability of platinum without the high cost. In addition, platinum-clad sterling silver jewelry isn't easily tarnished or discolored and, as it ages, it develops a beautiful sheen. However, oils from your lotions, makeup and skin, along with hairspray and dirt, can dull its natural shine. Platinum plated sterling silver is sterling silver, but it has a  thin coating of platinum over the top. Platinum does not tarnish  and the piece will keep the silver look.
Anomet 100Nb is a platinum clad (platinized) anode material with a solid niobium core. Niobium cored platinum clad anodes are used where exposed ends are an issue. Although the conductivity of niobium is 5 times that of titanium, it is still better suited for larger diameters in shorter lengths. Anomet 100Ti is a platinum clad (platinized) anode material with a solid titanium core. Anomet 100Ti is available as a stock item in both single and 2-1/2 times platinum thicknesses.
Leadership in Platinum Anode Technology. Anomet Products has been manufacturing platinum clad anode materials since 1976, and today is the leading supplier of platinum clad anode materials. Anomet, together with its sister company, Supercon, represents umatched experience in innovative metallurgical processing. Anomet 100Ti is a platinum clad (platinized) anode material with a solid titanium core. Anomet 100Ti is available as a stock item in both single and 2-1/2 times platinum thicknesses.
Anomet 100Nb. Anomet 100Nb is a platinum clad (platinized) anode material with a solid niobium core. Niobium cored platinum clad anodes are used where exposed ends are an issue. Although the conductivity of niobium is 5 times that of titanium, it is still better suited for larger diameters in shorter lengths. Leadership in Platinum Anode Technology. Anomet Products has been manufacturing platinum clad anode materials since 1976, and today is the leading supplier of platinum clad anode materials. Anomet, together with its sister company, Supercon, represents umatched experience in innovative metallurgical processing.
The ammonia-based cleaning mixture is for plain platinum-clad sterling silver jewelry or those pieces that contain diamonds only. The ammonia will harm any other stones. For other gemstones, you can use the detergent and water mixture, leaving out the ammonia. Platinum plated sterling silver is sterling silver, but it has a  thin coating of platinum over the top. Platinum does not tarnish  and the piece will keep the silver look.
Anomet Products is the leader in platinum clad anodes (platinized anodes). If you know the type of anode you are interested in, select it from the links at the top of this page. If you are unsure about the type of anode you need, please use the guides below. Leadership in Platinum Anode Technology. Anomet Products has been manufacturing platinum clad anode materials since 1976, and today is the leading supplier of platinum clad anode materials. Anomet, together with its sister company, Supercon, represents umatched experience in innovative metallurgical processing.
Rhodium is a metal very similar to platinum and rhodium shares many of the properties of platinum including its white color. So Basically both gives the ring a grander appearance without the expense. Best Answer: Some jewelry is made from sterling silver and given a thin plating of platinum, often referred to as platinum clad. A coating with rhodium Gives Jewelry the appearance of platinum