Doors with openers also require two extra pieces of hardware that you'll see in Photo 4: a support strut (usually included in the door kit) and an opener bracket (not included). For doors with torsion springs located over the door, spend the $50 or so to have a garage door professional release the tension. 
If your garage door has started to malfunction, you might be considering installing a new or upgraded door. Rest assured it is a smart investment. In fact, installing a new garage door yields about 84 percent in resale value, according to Remodeling Magazine. Garage door opener repair can cost between $100 and $300 depending on the extent of the problem. Return to Top. The type of garage door you select -- and any extra pieces or labor required -- will influence how much you pay to have it professionally installed.
According to DIYOrNot.com, it should cost between $500 and $800 to install a single new garage door. They demonstrate that the average homeowner can usually tackle such a project in a nine hour time span and a professional will be able to complete it in roughly five hours. 1 Be sure that each quote includes the costs for a few different types of doors, any installation fees, and the cost of wiring the electronic openers. 2  Standard prices range from: 3  Single tilt-up models - $400 to $700 installed; 4  Single roll-up models $800 to $10
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Single Garage Door Installation project. For a basic 1 door project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Single Garage Door ranges between $512.86 - $884.05 per door. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
Here are some factors to consider as you look to invest in a new garage door: A garage door will cost anywhere from $200 for single doors to $4,000 for two or more doors, with better materials accounting for the higher cost. Most homeowners report spending about $1,060 for the door and installation. Garage door opener repair can cost between $100 and $300 depending on the extent of the problem. Return to Top. The type of garage door you select -- and any extra pieces or labor required -- will influence how much you pay to have it professionally installed.
1 These may require some carpentry, but they are a good way to allow for some flexibility in the choice of larger garage door, and can ensure that the homeowner will have more than a single way in or out of the structure. 2  The average costs for such a feature range from $250 to $1000 each. 1 Be sure that each quote includes the costs for a few different types of doors, any installation fees, and the cost of wiring the electronic openers. 2  Standard prices range from: 3  Single tilt-up models - $400 to $700 installed; 4  Single roll-up models $800 to $10
Please try again later. We will demonstrate how a Mesa garage door professional installer will prep, install a new garage door, and remove the old one in under 2 hrs. 
Measure the various areas where the door will be installed: door-opening height and width, headroom (from top of opening to ceiling), and back room (length of garage). For the headroom, you should have about 10 to 12 of space, depending on the spring system you're installing. 
Installing your own garage door may sound like a daunting project but with a basic understanding of how the door works, the right tools, and a friend to help you, installation can actually be a quick do-it-yourself project. You will also need a ladder to reach the parts of the door that are overhead. In fact, it's not a bad idea to have two ladders handy, so that you and your helper can both be on one at the same time. 1  Have all your tools and manufacturer-provided garage door pieces at arm's length to make installation easier.