Definition of TAKLIMAKAN. desert W China in cen Xinjiang Uygur between Tian Shan & Kunlun Mountains. 
The Taklamakan Desert, also known as Taklimakan and Teklimakan, is a desert in the southwest portion of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in northwest China. Popular accounts claim that Takla Makan means go in and you will never come out. It may also mean The point of no return or The Desert of Death. The Taklamakan Desert Ecoregion is a Chinese ecoregion of the Deserts and xeric shrublands Biome.
Freebase. Taklamakan Desert. The Taklamakan Desert, also known as Taklimakan and Teklimakan, is a desert in southwest Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, northwest China. It is bounded by the Kunlun Mountains to the south, the Pamir Mountains and Tian Shan to the west and north, and the Gobi Desert to the eas
Geographic Distribution. The midlatitude desert is found in inner Asia with great expanses in northern (Gobi desert) and northwestern China (Takla Makan desert), Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan. The interior western United States (Southern Utah and Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico) has a midlatitude desert climate. Figure 9.18 Interior location of Takla Makan and Gobi Desert. (Source: CIA World Factbook). The midlatitude desert climate is controlled by the same factors as the tropical desert climates, the influence of high pressure, interior position, and rain shadow location.
Science, in a 2009 article, reports. Trade Route/Silk Road: One of the world's largest deserts, the Taklamakan, is located in the northwest region of modern China, in Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region. There are oases located on two routes around the desert that served as important trading spots on the Silk Road. It is about 10 mm -- that's just over a third of an inch -- in the center and 100 mm at the bases of the mountains, according to Terrestrial Ecoregions-Taklimakan desert (PA1330)[www.worldwildlife.org/wildworld/profiles/terrestrial/pa/pa1330_full.html] .
Instance hypernyms: desert (arid land with little or no vegetation). Holonyms (Taklamakan Desert is a part of...): China; Communist China; mainland China; People's Republic of China; PRC; Red China (a communist nation that covers a vast territory in eastern Asia; the most populous country in the world).
Cathay, China, Communist China, mainland China, People's Republic of China, PRC, Red China-a communist nation that covers a vast territory in eastern Asia; the most populous country in the world. 