Conditions that afflict the internodal pathways include cardiac arrhythmias, atrial fibrillation, ventricular fibrillation, tachydysrhythmias, bradydysrhythmias, heart blocks, myocardial infarction, and cardiac arrest.
(A) The left arrow is in the posterior internodal pathway, and the right arrow is in the anterior plus middle internodal pathways. (B) Similar orientation applies in which arborized connection between these pathways is seen just above the AV node.
This band continues to the left atrium (LA), with the anterior internodal pathway entering the superior margin of the AV node. The Bachmann bundle is a large muscle bundle that appears to conduct the cardiac impulse preferentially from the RA to the LA. Schematic illustration of the cardiac conduction system.
(A) The left arrow is in the posterior internodal pathway, and the right arrow is in the anterior plus middle internodal pathways. (B) Similar orientation applies in which arborized connection between these pathways is seen just above the AV node.
All 3 internodal pathways emerge from the sinus node. Anterior pathway plus interatrial pathway are indicated with dots; division of that pathway into the interatrial direction is marked with the lower right black arrow, and the branch forming the anterior internodal pathway is marked by the upper right black arrow.
click hereYou have 3 open access pages. The interatrial or internodal conduction tracts are bands of specialised myocytes which are believed to lie between the sinuatrial node and the atrioventricular node. Previously, conduction between the two nodes was thought to occur through direct stimulation and conduction between normal atrial myocytes.
In the normal heart, the AV node is the only pathway for conduction of atrial electrical impulses to the ventricles. AV Junction The region where the intermodal pathways leading from the SA node join the Bundle of His is called the AV Junction.
Summary Information: Internodal Pathways. Internodal Pathways: The internodal pathways of the heart are a part of the electrical conduction system of the heart. The internodal pathways are located in the wall of the heart's atria and conduct impulses from the sinoatrial node to the atrioventricular node.
P and the curved arrow mark the posterior internodal pathway, dividing into one portion that arborizes to join the middle (M) and anterior (A) pathways just above the AV node and another portion forcing bypass fibers, marked with an open arrow, are composed primarily of transitional cells.