Muscle spasm is among the most common neck pain causes and usually responds to lifestyle modifications and basic therapeutic measures such as massage, heat, traction and anti-inflammatory analgesics that are readily available over the counter. Degenerative Neck Pain Causes. Middle age persons may present persisting or recurring neck pain, which is sometimes associated by tingling in the arms or fingers and may even display chest pain from an affected C6 nerve root, sometimes called cervical angina.
Possible Neck Pain Causes. Related to degeneration of the cervical spine, modic degenerative changes, visible on MRI films may be caused by an infection that gets into the disc and causes problems inside the bone. Degenerative Neck Pain Causes. Middle age persons may present persisting or recurring neck pain, which is sometimes associated by tingling in the arms or fingers and may even display chest pain from an affected C6 nerve root, sometimes called cervical angina.
Initially, the history can shed some light on neck pain and it’s causes. A patient’s occupation, posture habits, onset of pain, character of pain and stress at work and home should be noted. Degenerative Neck Pain Causes. Middle age persons may present persisting or recurring neck pain, which is sometimes associated by tingling in the arms or fingers and may even display chest pain from an affected C6 nerve root, sometimes called cervical angina.
The neck pain can also because of your poor posture, lack of exercise, which cause your abdominal muscles to be weak and disrupt your spine’s balance, which cause your neck to bend uncomfortable. Some normal activities may strain your neck muscles and cause you a neck pain. If you experience neck pain from this, all you need to do is to massage your neck with some oil and it will go away after a day or two. A sudden forced movement of the head or neck in any direction is called the “whiplash” is known to cause the neck muscle injury.
The neck pain maybe mild or severe and the symptoms differs because of the variety of causes of neck pain. Neck pain can be caused by too much usage of pillow. It is advisable for you to use enough pillow because without the right amount pillow, the chance for you to strain your neck will be very high. It is advisable that you get a hard pillow, which is suitable for your neck and will not cause your neck pain. Your daily lifestyle maybe the caused of your neck pain, those stress and emotional tension from works can cause your muscles to tighten and contract, resulting in pain and stiffness in your neck muscles. If you experience neck pain from this, all you need to do is to massage your neck with some oil and it will go away after a day or two. A sudden forced movement of the head or neck in any direction is called the “whiplash” is known to cause the neck muscle injury.
Neck Pain. Your neck (cervical spine) is made up of vertebrae that extend from the skull to the upper torso. Cervical disks absorb shock between the bones. The bones, ligaments, and muscles of your neck support your head and allow for motion. Any abnormalities, inflammation, or injury can cause neck pain or stiffness. Many people experience neck pain or stiffness in the neck occasionally. In many cases, it is due to poor posture, normal wear and tear, or overuse. Sometimes, neck pain is caused by injury from a fall, contact sports, or whiplash
What causes neck pain? Causes of neck pain include abnormalities in the bone or joints, trauma, poor posture, degenerative diseases, and tumors. Pain in the soft tissues (muscles, tendons, and ligaments) is the most common cause of neck pain and usually occurs as a result of an acute or a chronic muscle strain. 
Your neck is flexible and supports the weight of your head, so it can be vulnerable to injuries and conditions that cause pain and restrict motion. Neck pain causes include: 1  Muscle strains. 2  Overuse, such as too many hours hunched over your computer or smartphone, often triggers muscle strains. 3  Even minor things, such as reading in bed or gritting your teeth, can strain neck muscles. 4  Worn joints. 1 Your body then forms bone spurs that affect joint motion and cause pain. 2  Nerve compression. 3  Herniated disks or bone spurs in the vertebrae of your neck can press on the nerves branching out from the spinal cord. 4  Injuries.
Medical conditions that cause neck pain. Certain medical problems can cause neck pain. These include: 1  Problems related to aging, such as: 2  Narrowing of the spinal canal (cervical spinal stenosis). 3  Arthritis of the neck (cervical spondylosis). 4  Illnesses such as: 5  Meningitis, which causes inflammation around the tissues of the brain and spinal cord. Activities that cause neck pain. Most neck pain is caused by activities that involve repeated or prolonged movements of the neck. This can result in a strain (an overstretched or overused muscle), a sprain (injury to a ligament), or a spasm of the neck muscles. These activities include: