1. The standard 12-lead electrocardiogram is a representation of the heart's electrical activity recorded from electrodes on the body surface. This section describes the basic components of the ECG and the lead system used to record the ECG tracings. Topics for study: 1  ECG Waves and Intervals
An electrocardiogram is used to monitor your heart. Each beat of your heart is triggered by an electrical impulse normally generated from special cells in the upper right chamber of your heart. An electrocardiogram — also called an ECG or EKG — records these electrical signals as they travel through your heart. 
In its metallic form, lead is used as a protective shielding against x-rays. Lead is poisonous, a characteristic that has led to a reduction in the use of lead compounds as pigments for paints and inks. (In dentistry, lead acts as a protective shield against the radiographic beam and is found in the lead apron and walls of the surrounding operatory.) It is poisonous, a characteristic that has led to a reduction in the use of lead compound as pigments for paints and inks. lead apron, n See apron, lead.
In a conventional 12 lead ECG, ten electrodes are placed on the patient's limbs and on the surface of the chest. The overall magnitude of the heart's electrical potential is then measured from twelve different angles (leads) and is recorded over a period of time (usually 10 seconds). Each of the 12 ECG leads records the electrical activity of the heart from a different angle, and therefore align with different anatomical areas of the heart. Two leads that look at neighboring anatomical areas are said to be contiguous.
Hammond was well in the lead for the first 40 minutes. 4. used as a countable noun. A dog's lead is a chain or long piece of leather or plastic which is attached to the dog's collar so that you can control the dog. Always keep your dog on a lead in the street. 4. lead weights or shot, as used in cartridges, fishing lines, etc. 5. (Building) a thin grooved strip of lead for holding small panes of glass or pieces of stained glass. 6. (Building) (plural). a. thin sheets or strips of lead used as a roof covering.
Lead is used with various related meanings as a verb, singular noun, or countable noun, and with a totally different meaning and pronunciation as an uncountable noun. 1. used as a verb. If you lead (. 4. lead weights or shot, as used in cartridges, fishing lines, etc. 5. (Building) a thin grooved strip of lead for holding small panes of glass or pieces of stained glass. 6. (Building) (plural). a. thin sheets or strips of lead used as a roof covering.
lead II the standard bipolar limb lead attached to the right arm and left leg. lead III the standard bipolar limb lead attached to the left arm and left leg. augmented unipolar limb lead a modified unipolar limb lead; the three standard leads are: aVF (left leg), aVL (left arm), and aVR (right arm). aVF lead an augmented unipolar limb lead in which the positive electrode is on the left leg. (In dentistry, lead acts as a protective shield against the radiographic beam and is found in the lead apron and walls of the surrounding operatory.) It is poisonous, a characteristic that has led to a reduction in the use of lead compound as pigments for paints and inks. lead apron, n See apron, lead.
standard leads the 12 leads used in a standard electrocardiogram, comprising the standard bipolar limb leads I–III, the augmented unipolar limb leads, and the standard precordial leads. (In dentistry, lead acts as a protective shield against the radiographic beam and is found in the lead apron and walls of the surrounding operatory.) It is poisonous, a characteristic that has led to a reduction in the use of lead compound as pigments for paints and inks. lead apron, n See apron, lead.
n. 1. Any of three standard bipolar limb leads of an electrocardiograph, designated I, II and III. Lead I records potential difference between the right and left arms; lead II, the difference between right arm and left leg; lead III, the difference between left arm and left leg. 2. A record obtained from such a lead.