Elephants are found in large numbers in Africa and South Asia. They inhabit the Savannahs of Africa and the dense rain forests of South Asia. Their natural habitat usually surrounds abundant water sources like lakes and rivers. Unfortunately, because of massive poaching for ivory and the destruction of much of the elephant's natural habitat, most African Elephants are now restricted to the protection of national parks. Not so long ago, however, they freely followed age-old seasonal migration routes from one habitat to another.
Size: Asian elephants live in large blocks of forest near water sources and grasslands, habitat that has been greatly reduced in the last half century. They inhabit India, Sri Lanka, Myanmar (Burma), Indonesia, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, Malaysia, Nepal, Bangladesh, and southern China. In the wild, Asian elephants may live up to about 60 years but most do not live that long. Asian elephants once ranged from Iraq east through Asia south of the Himalayas, into southern China and possibly south to Java. However, centuries of hunting and habitat destruction caused dramatic declines.
Elephant Habitat. 1  Elephants make home in a variety of habitats including tropical and subtropical zones. 2  Their habitat ranges from dry deciduous forests, savannas (such as mixed woodland and grassland mosaics), semi-deserts, and evergreen rainforests. Elephant Habitat. 1  Elephants make home in a variety of habitats including tropical and subtropical zones. 2  Elephants are normally mixed feeders as they feed on many different plants. 3  Elephants are dominant in regions where they live. 4  They have got the habit of destroying trees.
The habitat for elephants in captivity is a far cry from what they experience in the wild. Most zoos offer them a generous amount of room to roam but it is nothing like what they would have in the wild. Still, they have plenty of water and food so they don’t need to travel for those reasons. When elephants can freely roam though in their natural habitat they actually do lots of good for the environment. They clear away trees and plants so that new forms of vegetation can grow there. It is due to humans clearing away their natural habitat though that they are struggling out ther
Elephant Natural Habitat. Elephants are able to survive in a variety of different locations because of the huge variety of food sources that they consume. Many people assume that elephants that are in the wild only live in the grasslands. While that is one of their main habitats, they can also be found in the desert of the Savannah, forest areas, where there are swamps, and everything in between. When elephants can freely roam though in their natural habitat they actually do lots of good for the environment. They clear away trees and plants so that new forms of vegetation can grow there. It is due to humans clearing away their natural habitat though that they are struggling out there in the wild.
Elephants are the biggest land animals in the world. The African elephant is found on the continent of Africa and the Indian elephant is found in Asia. Elephants are mammals as well as herbivores, meaning they only eat plants rather than meat. 
The African Bush elephant or the African Savanna elephant, commonly recognized as the Bush elephant, is the largest of the two species of the elephants that exist in Africa. These elephants are characterized by a short neck, huge head, two large ears that keep the body cool, and have a rotund body. Elephants are one of those species of animals that can adapt to almost any habitat. Forests, woodlands, grassy plains, savanna, swamps and deserts are some of the ecosystems where they easily survive.
Elephants are found in large numbers in Africa and South Asia. They inhabit the Savannahs of Africa and the dense rain forests of South Asia. Their natural habitat usually sur … rounds abundant water sources like lakes and rivers. They also prefer habitats with lush green vegetation and trees which they forage on. Unfortunately, because of massive poaching for ivory and the destruction of much of the elephant's natural habitat, most African Elephants are now restricted to the protection of national parks. Not so long ago, however, they freely followed age-old seasonal migration routes from one habitat to another.
Asian elephants are found in Ind … ia, Sri Lanka, China, and Southeast  Asia.   Elephants are currently an endangered species because of the  hunting of their ivory tusks. Furthermore, due to the hunting,  their habitat area is decreasing by a large amount. Unfortunately, because of massive poaching for ivory and the destruction of much of the elephant's natural habitat, most African Elephants are now restricted to the protection of national parks. Not so long ago, however, they freely followed age-old seasonal migration routes from one habitat to another.