Tomato plants leaves turn yellow for a variety of reasons, some of which aren’t as simple as the plant maturing. Regardless of the issue, whenever there are yellow leaves on tomato plants, it warrants a thorough check as to what the problem could be. You never know what you will run across, and it could be detrimental not only to your tomato plants with their yellow tomato leaves, but to the rest of your garden as well. Before you go making any adjustments, however, you should check the soil around your plants if your tomato plants leaves turn yellow. If the soil isn’t wet enough, you might just be under watering the tomato plants. Yellow tomato leaves could be a sign of lack of water. A drip hose is an excellent way to water the soil regularly to help prevent yellow leaves on your tomato plants
Here's the list to run through: 1) Plants are too dry. 2) Plants are too wet. 3) Foliar leaf damage from a bacteria or virus, especially if the yellowing of the leaves is accompanied by small dark spots (probably bacterial speck) or larger brown spots with concentric circles (probably early blight). 4) A more serious disease like verticillium wilt or fusarium wilt. 
If you have noticed tomato leaf spots and the lower leaves turning yellow, you may have tomato early blight alternaria. This tomato disease causes damage to the leaves, stems and even the fruit of the plant. Keep reading to learn more about what causes tomato early blight alternaria and how to treat leaf spot. The best treatment for tomato plant leaf spots is to make sure that you don’t get it in the first place. Proper care of your tomato plants will make sure you avoid the dreaded yellow leaves and leaf spots that come with Alternaria Alternata.
Caused by a fungal pathogen, Alternaria solani, early blight gets started on the lower leaves of tomato and potato plants. Besides leaf yellowing, symptoms include spots or lesions that start out small but increase in size. 
When tomato plants leaves turn yellow, it could be from a fungus or bacterial problem, like Alternaria alternata or other tomato diseases. If disease is the case, you will want to treat this accordingly. Sometimes yellow leaves on tomato plants mean that there is a pest problem that needs to be handled. Before you go making any adjustments, however, you should check the soil around your plants if your tomato plants leaves turn yellow. If the soil isn’t wet enough, you might just be under watering the tomato plants. Yellow tomato leaves could be a sign of lack of water. A drip hose is an excellent way to water the soil regularly to help prevent yellow leaves on your tomato plants
Some tomato plant leaves yellow due to a lack of sunlight on mature plants. When the plants become large, bushy, and heavy with fruit, the top portions of the plant can block the lower portions from getting sunlight. This can cause the leaves to yellow, and is really nothing to worry about. You may need to also check your soil for a lack of nitrogen. Nitrogen will give a plant (everything from grass to vegetable plants) its dark green color, and good growth. A lack of nitrogen in the soil can cause the yellow leaves on tomatoes as well. Test your soil to check for nitrogen levels and other nutrients.
I have my very first tomato plants this year, two varieties of cherry tomatoes. they have been growing great! My first tomato is almost ripe on one of the two plants :) Now all of a sudden this weekend the plant with the almost ripe tomato started to turn yellow on the bottom leaves/leaf branches.
If you notice yellow leaves in other areas of the tomato plant, or the yellowing at the bottom is spreading upward, this could be a sign of disease, such as curly top virus (usually curly top virus will show signs of yellowing leaves that are curling up as well), Ringtop Virus, or other diseases. You may need to also check your soil for a lack of nitrogen. Nitrogen will give a plant (everything from grass to vegetable plants) its dark green color, and good growth. A lack of nitrogen in the soil can cause the yellow leaves on tomatoes as well. Test your soil to check for nitrogen levels and other nutrients.