The net movement of a substance from a region where it has a higher concentration to a region where it has a lower concentration, due to random molecular motion, is called diffusion. Diffusion is a widespread and important process which occurs in both living and non-living systems. 
Which of the following is required for facilitated diffusion to occur? a) a concentration gradient b) a carrier and concentration gradient c) carrier and energy d)... show more a) a concentration gradient b) a carrier and concentration gradient c) carrier and energy d) vesicles e) vesicle to membrane fusion ALSO! Best Answer: First Question: A-a concentration gradient because diffusion is process molecules move down a concentration gradient.
One way in which cells can control diffusion is through the control of movement of particular types of molecules. Some molecules can pass freely through a cellular membrane. Large polar molecules and ions cannot diffuse through the lipid bilayer. Carrier proteins can move molecules across the membrane. 
Answers. Best Answer: First Question: A-a concentration gradient because diffusion is process molecules move down a concentration gradient. In other words, the processs by which molecules move from an area of low concentration to an area of high concentration
Introduction: Simple passive diffusion occurs when small molecules pass through the lipid bilayer of a cell membrane. Facilitated diffusion depends on carrier proteins imbedded in the membrane to allow specific substances to pass through, that might not be able to diffuse through the cell membrane. Simple passive diffusion. 
: For diffusion to occur there must be molecular movement which is simply heat. The relationship between heat and motion can be illustrated by observing Brownian Motion which is the random motion of small particles suspended in water due to the uneven collisions of water molecules. : is the movement of a substances dissolved in a fluid from areas of higher concentration to areas of lower concentration. This was demonstrated by the movement of janus green dye and by potassium dichromate through getatine. 1  Link to image of rate of diffusion experiment from lab.
Which of the following is required for endocytosis to occur? a) a concentration gradient b) a carrier and concentration gradient c) carrier and energy d) vesicle formation e) none of the above. Best Answer: First Question: A-a concentration gradient because diffusion is process molecules move down a concentration gradient.
Facilitated diffusion (also known as facilitated transport or passive-mediated transport) is the process of spontaneous passive transport (as opposed to active transport) of molecules or ions across a biological membrane via specific transmembrane integral proteins. 
Osmosis is the diffusion of water across a selectively permeable membrane. A spontaneous transport of solvent occurs from a dilute solute or salt solution to a concentrated solute or salt solution across a semipermeable membrane which allows the passage of the solvent but impedes passage of the salt solutes. This is very important with cells.
Diffusion is the net movement of molecules or atoms from a region of high concentration to a region of low concentration. This is also referred to as the movement of a substance down a concentration gradient. A gradient is the change in the value of a quantity (e.g., concentration, pressure, temperature) with the change in another variable (usually distance).