1 In 2014 the average interchange fee per covered transaction was slightly lower for transactions processed over dual-message networks (which are mostly signature-authenticated) compared to those processed over single-message networks (which are mostly PIN-authenticated): $0.23 and $0.24 respectively. 1 For transactions processed over single-message networks the average interchange fee per exempt transaction has been steadily declining since Regulation II took effect, and in 2014 was only slightly higher than that for covered transactions ($0.26 vs. $0.24).
Interchange fees now comprise a substantial share of the income these companies make on credit cards. In 2004, card issuers took in $28 billion in interchange. By 2008, that figure had shot up to $48 billion. These fees, known as interchange, are set by the credit card processors: Visa, MasterCard, and American Express, which together control 93% of all card transactions in the United States. Businesses that want to accept credit cards have no other choice but to pay these fees.
A merchant must negotiate a discount fee, most of which is an interchange transaction fee, with the acquiring financial institution in order to process debit card transactions, just as they do for credit card transactions. According to the Federal Reserve, the average interchange fee per transaction for all debit card issuers in 2009 was 43 cents. Data collected from the fourth quarter of 2011 indicated that the average interchange fee received by non-exempt issuers declines 45% from the 2009 level to 24 cents.
The Two Components of a Credit/Debit Card Transaction. Each time you process a credit or debit card transaction through your merchant account, you are charged an inquiry fee and a percentage of the total transaction. The inquiry fee is a flat amount, typically between 20 cents and 35 cents. The percentage charged, is typically called your credit card rate and it is variable based on the type of transaction and the type of card used. 
Plans to cut transaction fees on debit and credit cards in the European Union have been published-but there is disagreement over the potential impact. The European Commission estimates that the EU payment market is worth 130bn euros (£112bn) but is fragmented and expensive. On average, debit card transactions cost the retailer 9p each, or about 0.2% of the bill. Credit card transactions typically cost much more, at around 0.9%. [This will] finally put an end to the unjustified high level of these fees.
The negotiated fee is then subtracted from each customer transaction with a credit or debit card. The “interchange transaction fee,” which is paid to the credit or debit card issuer, makes up the largest percentage of the merchant discount fee and is the focus of this report. According to the Federal Reserve, the average interchange fee per transaction for all debit card issuers in 2009 was 43 cents. Data collected from the fourth quarter of 2011 indicated that the average interchange fee received by non-exempt issuers declines 45% from the 2009 level to 24 cents.
Cap on fees. Shops and businesses pay different interchange rates to the banks, depending on the size of the retailer, and whether the customer has used a debit card or a credit card. On average, debit card transactions cost the retailer 9p each, or about 0.2% of the bill. Credit card transactions typically cost much more, at around 0.9%. [This will] finally put an end to the unjustified high level of these fees.
In a credit card or debit card transaction, the card-issuing bank in a payment transaction deducts the interchange fee from the amount it pays the acquiring bank that handles a credit or debit card transaction for a merchant. 
Statement: $0 – $15 per month. The statement fee is charged because, at the end of each month, you will receive a statement from your processing bank that will list all the transactions that went through for that particular month. It’s very much like your credit card or telephone bills.