Force field analysis is best carried out in small group of about six to eight people using flipchart paper or overhead transparencies so that everyone can see what is going on. The first step is to agree the area of change to be discussed. This might be written as a desired policy goal or objective. A Force Field Analysis is used to support the decision making process by providing a detailed overview of the variety of forces that may be acting on an organisational change issue.
Lewin's force field analysis is used to distinguish which factors within a situation or organisation drive a person towards or away from a desired state, and which oppose the driving forces. These can be analysed in order to inform decisions that will make change more acceptable. 
Force Field Analysis is a method for listing, discussing, and assessing the various forces for and against a proposed change. It helps you look at the big picture by analysing all of the forces impacting on the change and weighing up the pros and cons. 
Force-field analysis is an influential development in the field of social science. It provides a framework for looking at the factors (forces) that influence a situation, originally social situations. 
Purpose: Force Field Analysis is a general tool for systematically analyzing thefactors found in complex problems. It frames problems in terms of factors orpressures that support the status quo (restraining forces) and those pressuresthat support change in the desired direction (driving forces). 
A force-field analysis identifies the forces that either aid in or are detrimental to arriving at a desired outcome. A scenario plays out as a balance between two forces: one attempting to alter the current state and the other attempting to keep it the same. 
Force field analysis is a change management tool we use to help us do this. Using the force field analysis change management tool helps us to achieve successful organizational change by helping us identify and deal with the various forces, influences and situations that are working for and against us. BENEFITS of doing a Force Field Analysis. 1  By using the force field analysis change management tool early in the change management process it helps us to weigh up the 'for's and against' and the importance of these factors to decide whether a plan is worth implementing.
Force Field Analysis. Force Field Analysis is a method for listing, discussing, and evaluating the various forces for and against a proposed change. When a change is planned, Force Field Analysis helps you look at the big picture by analyzing all of the forces impacting the change and weighing the pros and cons. By knowing the pros and cons, you can develop strategies to reduce the impact of the opposing forces and strengthen the supporting forces. Forces that work against the change are called restraining forces.. Force Field Analysis can be used to develop an action plan to implement a change. Specifically it can. . . 1  Determine if a proposed change can get needed support. 2  Identify obstacles to successful solutions.
A force field analysis helps a team study a problem's positives and negatives, and how they impact resolving that problem. It can present pros and cons in an easy comparison, allowing for consensus and collective decision-making. 
How to Use the Tool. To carry out a Force Field Analysis, use a blank sheet of paper or whiteboard, or download our worksheet. Then describe your plan or proposal for change in a box in the middle of the paper. List the forces for change in a column on the left-hand side, and the forces against change in a column on the right-hand side. 