1 Water can dissolve salt because the positive part of water molecules attracts the negative chloride ions and the negative part of water molecules attracts the positive sodium ions. 2  The amount of a substance that can dissolve in a liquid (at a particular temperature) is called the solubility of the substance. Since water is more polar than alcohol, it attracts the positive sodium and negative chloride ions better than alcohol. This is why water dissolves more salt than alcohol does. Another way of saying this is that the solubility of salt is greater in water than in alcohol.
Bags and cartons of Epsom salts are available at any drugstore. Why, I have a package right here. 1 It says: Dissolve desired amount (1–2 cups) of crystals in a hot bath to produce a mineral water treatment to aid in the relief of muscular aches and pains. I can do no better in defense of Epsom salt bathing for aches and pains than “anything is possible.” There is no good or specific reason to believe that bathing in dissolved Epsom salts will have the slightest effect on muscle soreness or injury recovery time.
Both rock salt and epsom salt can be used to remove tree stumps. The problem with the former is that its high sodium levels would make the soil unfit for planting later on. Epsom salt is more preferable in this regard. Nonetheless, removing a tree stump with chemicals can take a very long time. 
Making a solution is as easy as mixing the salt with water in a concentrated ratio. In a 5-gallon bucket, mix at least 1 gallon of Epsom salt with 2 gallons of water. The higher the concentration of salt to water, the more potent the solution is. Pour the solution over the top of the stump and around the largest roots. Cover the stump with a tarp. Drill holes into the top of the stump, using a 1-inch extra-long bit. Make holes all around the stump, leaving a few inches between them. Pour straight, dry Epsom salt into the holes to fill them. Water the holes slowly to be sure that the salt doesn't come back out. It should be moist, but not saturated.
1 Salt (sodium chloride) is made from positive sodium ions bonded to negative chloride ions. 2  Water can dissolve salt because the positive part of water molecules attracts the negative chloride ions and the negative part of water molecules attracts the positive sodium ions. Since water is more polar than alcohol, it attracts the positive sodium and negative chloride ions better than alcohol. This is why water dissolves more salt than alcohol does. Another way of saying this is that the solubility of salt is greater in water than in alcohol.
Part of learning how to garden is learning how to remove tree stumps from the landscape. While this process can be handled by a stump removing service, you can handle it yourself with a few simple supplies. This includes unique uses for Epsom Salt. 
Epsom salt. Epsom salt is a natural remedy that can be used to soothe the inside and the outside of your body. Use Epsom salt as a therapeutic bath additive along with bath oils to treat aches and pains or dissolve the salt in a drink to help relieve occasional constipation. Epsom salt has many uses and is a natural remedy so you don't have to worry about what you're putting in your bathtub or drink. Epsom bath to soothe the body. Tired, aching muscles can be soothed in a warm bath with two cups of Epsom salt added to the water. This trusted bath treatment relieves tension and relaxes the body as you soak, pulling the stress of the day out of you. Epsom salt also deep cleans pores and aids in exfoliating the skin.
12. Draw out toxins and reduce swelling. An Epsom salt bath is a wonderful way to draw toxins out of your body. Soaking in a bath for 10-15 minutes is also a great way to reduce swelling. Mix 1-2 cups of Epsom salts in a warm bath and mix to dissolve in water. 13. 