Thermochromic dyes are based on mixtures of leuco dyes with suitable other chemicals, displaying a color change (usually between the colorless leuco form and the colored form) in dependence on temperature. They come in two forms, liquid crystals and leuco dyes. Leuco dyes are easier to work with and allow for a greater range of applications. These applications include: flat thermometers, battery testers, clothing, and the indicator on bottles of maple syrup that change color when the syrup is warm.
Compatibility of the Thermochromic materials include various paints, inks and plastics matrix. The matrix of your application will strongly influence which format you select. Formats of our thermochromic materials include powders, aqueous slurries, ready to use inks, and master batch pellets. Applications are boundless such as beverage labels, packaging labels, shirts, ceramic coffee mugs, stickers, toys, straws, rubber ducky, and so much more. 
This is new thermochromic metal decorating technology that is designed for high-speed can printing lines (2000 cans per minute). “High Velocity Ink” is the most powerful thermochromic can ink in the world. It runs efficiently with less waste and brighter colors. Another breakthrough from CTI is the invention of photochromic inks for cans. These cans change from clear to the selected color (multiple colors are available). The ink changes when exposed to sunlight and then changes back to original clear when removed from sunlight (takes a few minutes). More Info.
Since mood rings, thermochromic inks have evolved at a steady pace. They're still used in all sorts of silly novelty items, but they have many useful and creative applications, too: thermometers, clothing, paint, drink containers, toys, battery indicators, plastic products of all kinds and much more. Thermochromic inks first hit the mainstream in the 1970s, appearing in one of that era's lasting icons -- the mood ring, which supposedly used the wearer's body heat as a sign of his or her emotional state.
Thermochromic inks or dyes are temperature sensitive compounds, developed in the 1970s, that temporarily change color with exposure to heat. They come in two forms, liquid crystals and leuco dyes. Leuco dyes are easier to work with and allow for a greater range of applications. These applications include: flat thermometers, battery testers, clothing, and the indicator on bottles of maple syrup that change color when the syrup is warm.
Thermochromic inks cannot be applied to seams, or collars. Due to the nature of Thermochromic ink, the color that is revealed must be lighter than the color it is changing from. Exact PMS matches are not possible. Design detail can affect color deposit and change values. There is no true Black
Thermochromic inks are temperature sensitive compounds that temporarily change color with exposure to heat. The ink is colored at room temperature, becoming translucent when exposed to heat and revealing the underlying graphic. They can be mixed with other colors to create a two-tone effect. Due to the nature of Thermochromic ink, the color that is revealed must be lighter than the color it is changing from. Exact PMS matches are not possible. Design detail can affect color deposit and change values.
Thermochromic inks are pigments that change color to colorless at certain temperature. There are many different types of thermochromic pigments including textile inks for textile screen printing. Usually you mix normal textile pigments with thermochromic inks so that it looks like the ink is changing from one color to the other. For example, if you mix yellow normal pigment with blue thermochromic ink, you will get green ink that changes from green (under reaction temperature) to yellow (over reaction temperature).
Thermochromic paints use of liquid crystals or leuco dye technology. After absorbing a certain amount of light or heat, the crystallic or molecular structure of the pigment reversibly changes in such a way that it absorbs and emits light at a different wavelength than at lower temperatures. They come in two forms, liquid crystals and leuco dyes. Leuco dyes are easier to work with and allow for a greater range of applications. These applications include: flat thermometers, battery testers, clothing, and the indicator on bottles of maple syrup that change color when the syrup is warm.
Well, sometimes our possessions and paints really can change color, thanks in part to thermochromic ink technology. Thermochromic inks take advantage of thermochromism, which refers to materials that change their hues in response to temperature fluctuations. Thermochromic inks first hit the mainstream in the 1970s, appearing in one of that era's lasting icons -- the mood ring, which supposedly used the wearer's body heat as a sign of his or her emotional state.