The capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris) is a large rodent of the genus Hydrochoerus of which the only other extant member is the lesser capybara (Hydrochoerus isthmius). The capybara is the largest rodent in the world. The capybara is not a threatened species and is hunted for its meat, hide and also for a grease from its thick fatty skin which is used in the pharmaceutical trade.
A small Capybara shaking itself off as it climbs out of the water. Capybaras are the largest members of the order Rodentia (rodents), growing to weigh from sixty to one hundred seventy pounds. They are found in central and eastern South America, in the American Rainforest, and in the savannas. Ecology. A capybara jumping into the water in its natural habitat. Capybaras are found throughout the Amazon Rainforest and savanna in South America [16] Their habitat includes the countries of Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Panama, Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname, and Guiana. [17].
1 Capybaras mate only in the water and the male is always the single dominant male from the group. 2  The females always give birth on the land. 3  After a gestation period of five months, a litter of four or five babies is born. 4  Each baby weighs approximately 3.5 pounds (1.5 kg). Capybara Fun Facts. 1  Amazingly, Capybaras are able to stay submerged underwater for up to 5 minutes. 2  With course hair that does not cover all of their 4 foot (1.2 meters) long and two foot (.6 meters) wide body, the Capybara is susceptible to sunburn. 3  To protect their skin, they seek shade in the water and mud.
Capybara Reproduction and Life Cycles. In a Capybara herd it is only the dominant male that has the breeding rights to the females, and although it can occur all year round depending on the conditions, the breeding season tends to be during the rains in April and May. Capybara Behaviour and Lifestyle. The Capybara is a very sociable animal that tends to inhabit densely vegetated areas close to water in herds of around 20 individuals, which are usually made up of a dominant male with a number of females and their young.
The lifespan of the capybara's sperm is longer than that of other rodents. Capybara gestation is 130–150 days, and usually produces a litter of four capybara babies, but may produce between one and eight in a single litter. Birth is on land and the female will rejoin the group within a few hours of delivering the newborn capybaras, which will join the group as soon as they are mobile. The capybara is not a threatened species and is hunted for its meat, hide and also for a grease from its thick fatty skin which is used in the pharmaceutical trade.
The Capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris), can be found in various regions of South America and in Panama. The Capybara is the largest living rodent in the world. The Capybara is related to agouti, chinchillas, coyphillas (a large, herbivorous, semi aquatic rodent) and guinea pigs. The Capybaras common name means ‘Master of the Grasses’ while its scientific name, ‘hydrochaeris’, is Greek for ‘water hog. Capybaras are semi-aquatic mammals found wild in much of South America (including Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, Brazil, Argentina, French Guyana, Uruguay, Peru and Paraguay) in dense rainforest areas near bodies of water.
Capybara Reproduction Facts. 1  Capybaras mate only in the water and the male is always the single dominant male from the group. 2  The females always give birth on the land. 3  After a gestation period of five months, a litter of four or five babies is born. 4  Each baby weighs approximately 3.5 pounds (1.5 kg). Capybara Fun Facts. 1  Amazingly, Capybaras are able to stay submerged underwater for up to 5 minutes. 2  With course hair that does not cover all of their 4 foot (1.2 meters) long and two foot (.6 meters) wide body, the Capybara is susceptible to sunburn. 3  To protect their skin, they seek shade in the water and mud.
The male pursues a female and mounts when the female is still in the water. The Capybara gestation period is 130 – 150 days and the female usually produces a litter of four capybara babies, but may produce between two and eight in a single litter. Capybaras are semi-aquatic mammals found wild in much of South America (including Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, Brazil, Argentina, French Guyana, Uruguay, Peru and Paraguay) in dense rainforest areas near bodies of water.
Capybara Classification and Evolution The Capybara is a large, semi-aquatic rodent that is found inhabiting the water-logged regions of Central and South America. Capybara Behaviour and Lifestyle. The Capybara is a very sociable animal that tends to inhabit densely vegetated areas close to water in herds of around 20 individuals, which are usually made up of a dominant male with a number of females and their young.