Polonium, also called Radium F, was the first element discovered by Marie S. Curie. She discovered it in 1898 while investigating radioactivity in pitchblende (uranium oxide). The element is named after Poland, the country of Curie's birth. Polonium is a rare, silvery-gray, radioactive low-melting metalloid. Polonium readily reacts with dilute acids, but only slightly with alkalis. All of its isotopes are radioactive. 210 Po emits a blue glow, as the air around it is excited by the decay products.
However, beta decay sources are more commonly used as they are less dangerous. 210 Po can be used as an atomic heat source but because of the isotope’s short half-life (138.4 days), it doesn’t provide power for long-term uses. Polonium is also used in anti-static brushes to eliminate dust on photographic film. It is sealed in brushes to control the radioactive emissions. Polonium was the first element Marie and Pierre Curie discovered. They discovered polonium and then radium in 1898, while working in Paris, investigating radioactivity in pitchblende (uranium oxide).
Polonium is a chemical element with symbol Po and atomic number 84, discovered in 1898 by Marie Curie and Pierre Curie. A rare and highly radioactive element with no stable isotopes, polonium is chemically similar to bismuth and tellurium, and it occurs in uranium ores. Polonium is a radioactive element that exists in two metallic allotropes. The alpha form is the only known example of a simple cubic crystal structure in a single atom basis, with an edge length of 335.2 picometers; the beta form is rhombohedral.
When it is mixed or alloyed with beryllium, polonium can be a neutron source: beryllium releases a neutron upon absorption of an alpha particle that is supplied by 210 Po. It has been used in this capacity as a neutron trigger or initiator for nuclear weapons. Other uses include. 
Polonium is pronounced as peh-LOW-nee-em. History and Uses: Polonium was discovered by Marie Sklodowska Curie, a Polish chemist, in 1898. She obtained polonium from pitchblende, a material that contains uranium, after noticing that unrefined pitchblende was more radioactive than the uranium that was separated from it.
Appearance. A silvery-grey, radioactive semi-metal. Uses. Polonium is an alpha-emitter, and is used as an alpha-particle source in the form of a thin film on a stainless steel disc. These are used in antistatic devices and for research purposes. A single gram of polonium will reach a temperature of 500°C as a result of the alpha radiation emitted.
Polonium is a very rare radioactive element. Chemically, it is represented with the symbol Po. In the periodic table, it is placed in group 16 which is also known as chalcogen family. Other members of this family include Oxygen, Sulfur, Selenium, and Tellurium. It is the heaviest chemical element of this group. 
Polonium-210 is a radioactive isotope that occurs in small amounts in nature and can be made in a nuclear reactor. It has limited uses, mainly in static eliminators. In recent years, polonium made the news because of its use as a poison. Polonium-210 is used in manufacturing in devices that eliminate static. These devices are designed to meet tough NRC standards and pose no threat to public health or safety. The isotope is combined with silver or other metals in a foil mounted inside a protective cage.
All other polonium isotopes are short-lived except polonium-210 (half-life about 138 days), which is the most commonly used isotope. It is prepared by bombarding bismuth with neutrons in a nuclear reactor. Polonium has 34 isotopes, more than any other element. All of these isotopes are radioactive. The most stable, polonium-209, has a half-life of about 103 years. Polonium-208 (half-life about 3 years) is the only other polonium isotope with a half-life over one year.