Calais to Folkestone Eurotunnel. The Eurotunnel Calais Folkestone Eurotunnel crossing between France and England is the only service operating on this route. With crossing durations from 35 minutes, the route is scheduled to run around 53 times per day.
Eurotunnel. Eurotunnel manages the infrastructure of the Channel Tunnel and passenger shuttle (car and coach) services between Folkestone, UK and Calais/Coquelles, France. Eurotunnel Channel Tunnel vehicle service offers the fastest route to France, crossing the channel in just 35 minutes.
Using our fare search you can check live timetables, and book a Eurotunnel ticket from Folkestone-located in Kent on the South East coast of England next to the Straits of Dover and Calais at the Northern tip of France.
Travelling from London to Paris and back within 4 minutes. First we travelled through the Channel Tunnel from Folkstone to Calais, the we travelled by ferry from Dunkerque to Dover.
The Channel Tunnel train for cars and motorbikes runs from Folkestone to Calais in about 35 minutes. There are around 37 trains from Folkestone to France per day. The Channel Tunnel car train runs almost 24 hours a day.
Eurostar Chunnel trains go from London, Ashford or Ebbsfleet in England, to Paris, Lille, Calais, Avignon, Eurodisney, Brussels and more... The Eurostar trains are very comfortable and London to Paris takes just 2 hours 15 minutes. Ticket prices start at around 69.
The Channel Tunnel (Le Tunnel sous la Manche in French) provides the link between UK and France. It is just over 31 miles long, running on average 150 feet under the English Channel (la Manche in French), from train terminals at Folkestone in southern England, and Calais (specifically Coquelles) in northern France.
The trains arrive and depart from the Channel Tunnel terminals in Folkestone and Calais. The terminals were purpose built for quick and easy transportation. Both are very easy to get to by car. Folkestone is on the M20 motorway in Kent, and Calais is very close to the A16 Motorway in France.