That system is made up of tissues and organs (bone marrow, spleen, thymus, and lymph nodes) that produce and store cells that fight infection and disease, along with the clear fluid, lymph, that carries those cells to different parts of the body. Lymphocytes: A small white blood cell that plays a large role in defending the body against disease. There are two main types of lymphocytes: B-cells and T-cells. B-cells make antibodies that attack bacteria and toxins.
Bone Marrow: The yellow tissue in the center of your bones that is responsible for making white blood cells that are destined to become lymphocytes. Lymphocytes: A small white blood cell that plays a large role in defending the body against disease. There are two main types of lymphocytes: B-cells and T-cells. B-cells make antibodies that attack bacteria and toxins.
The liver and kidneys filter the blood. The bones produce most of the white blood cells. However, T and B lymphocytes are produced in the lymph nodes and spleen, and the T Cel … ls are also produced and mature in they Thymus Gland. The bone marrow is the part of the bone that produces the cells
The Immune system is a complex network of cells (such as lymphocytes) and organs that work together to defend the body against foreign substances (antigens) such as bacteria, a virus or tumor cell. When the body discovers such a substance several kinds of cells go into action in what is called an immune response. Below is a description of some of the cells that are part of the immune system. Lymphocytes Lymphocytes are one of the main types of immune cells.
The Immune System-Click to Enlarge. Lymph nodes are part of the immune system. They release lymphocytes, a certain type of white blood cell that fights infection. The blood vessels and lymph vessels carry the lymphocytes to and from different areas in the body. Each lymphoid organ plays a role in the production and activation of lymphocytes. Blood cells and immune cells are made in the bone marrow. Certain cells will become part of the group of lymphocytes, while others will become part of another type of immune cells known as phagocytes. Once the lymphocytes are formed, some will continue to mature in the bone marrow and become B cells.
Lymph organs include the bone marrow, lymph nodes, spleen, and thymus. Bone marrow contains tissue that produces lymphocytes. B-lymphocytes (B-cells) mature in the bone marrow. T-lymphocytes (T-cells) mature in the thymus gland. Other blood cells such as monocytes and leukocytes are produced in the bone marrow. Lymph nodes are areas of concentrated lymphocytes and macrophages along the lymphatic veins. The lymphatic system is composed of lymph vessels, lymph nodes, and organs. The functions of this system include the absorbtion of excess fluid and its return to the blood stream, absorption of fat (in the villi of the small intestine) and the immune system function.
Descriptions of Spleen. Spleen: An organ that is part of the lymphatic system. The spleen produces lymphocytes, filters the blood, stores blood cells, and destroys old blood cells. It is located on the left side of the abdomen near the stomach. Spleen: The spleen is an organ of the lymphatic system and immune system. It is the largest of the lymph organs and is located in the upper left abdominal area.
White blood cells, like all blood cells are created in the bone marrow from certain stem cells. However, some lymphocytes are created but undeveloped or immature. T-cells for … example, are created in the bone marrow and need to migrate to another organ called the thymus (hence the name T-cell) to mature. The bones produce most of the white blood cells. However, T and B lymphocytes are produced in the lymph nodes and spleen, and the T Cel … ls are also produced and mature in they Thymus Gland.
Summary Information: Spleen. Spleen: The spleen is an organ of the lymphatic system and immune system. It is the largest of the lymph organs and is located in the upper left abdominal area. It is made of lymphatic tissue that produces lymphocytes and also houses macrophages
Leukemia is a type of cancer in the blood in which bone marrow (a tissue that fills the. openings of bones) is replaced by early forms of white blood cells. Cancer is a group of disease in which. symptoms are due to an abnormal and excessive growth of cells in one of the body organs or tissues. 