An anchovy is a small, common salt-water forage fish of the family Engraulidae. The 144 species are placed in 17 genera; they are found in the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans, and in the Black Sea and the Mediterranean Sea. Anchovies are usually classified as oily fish. Fishermen also use anchovies as bait for larger fish, such as tuna and sea bass. The strong taste people associate with anchovies is due to the curing process. Fresh anchovies, known in Italy as alici, have a much milder flavor.
Answer: Anchovies are a small, shiny, silver fish of the Anchoa (North America) or Engraulis (Mediterranean and European) family. Similar to herring, they run in large schools. Because they are small, generally 5 to 8 inches in length, anchovies are often confused with sardines (Sardinella anchovia). In some areas, the terms anchovy and sardine are used interchangeably. The miniscule scales are virtually non-existent and the skin is perfectly edible
Anchovies are a family (Engraulidae) of small, common salt-water forage fish. There are 144 species in 17 genera, found in the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans. In other parts of Asia, such as Korea and Japan, sun-dried anchovies are used to produce a rich soup similar to setipinna taty. These anchovy stocks are usually used as a base for noodle soups or traditional Korean soups. There are many other variations on how anchovy is used, especially in Korea. Fresh and dried anchovies are a popular part of the cuisine in Kerala and other south Indian states, where they are referred to as netholi/chooda (and nethili in Tamil Nadu) and provide a cheap source of protein in the diet
If anchovies gross you out, know this: Compared to what people ate before there were anchovies, they’re practically cake and ice cream. Because until about the 16th century there were no anchovies as we know them today. That is, small silvery fish that are boned, salt-cured and packed in oil. Anchovies are a rich and salty food; start with a little and taste. • Tapenade (olive spread) is a no-brainer. In a food processor, combine kalamata olives, a few anchovies, some capers, fresh thyme, olive oil and lemon juice. Pulse until mostly smooth, then use as a dip for bread or as a sandwich spread.
In Vietnam, anchovy is the main ingredient in the fish sauce-nước mắm-the unofficial national sauce of Vietnam. In Thai cuisine, dried anchovies are called pla katak haeng. They are used in a variety of dishes and especially popular deep-fried as a snack. Similarly to Vietnamese fish sauce, Thai fish sauce (nam pla) is also often made from anchovies. In other parts of Asia, such as Korea and Japan, sun-dried anchovies are used to produce a rich soup similar to setipinna taty. These anchovy stocks are usually used as a base for noodle soups or traditional Korean soups. There are many other variations on how anchovy is used, especially in Korea. Fresh and dried anchovies are a popular part of the cuisine in Kerala and other south Indian states, where they are referred to as netholi/chooda (and nethili in Tamil Nadu) and provide a cheap source of protein in the diet
Anchovy (dried) 멸치. Anchovy is one of the most frequently used ingredients in Korean cooking, especially for stews and soups. Koreans usually use dried anchovy to make broth (stock) or side dishes, but they also use fresh (raw) ones to make pickled (fermented) fish. The ways of cooking anchovy vary depending on its size. Big ones (called Dasi-myulchi in Korean) are usually used for broth and small ones (Bokkeum-myulchi) for side dishes. Dried anchovy can be also served without cooking as a snack.
When anchovies are used in sauces and dressings, they impart a salty rather than fishy flavor. Four anchovy fillets are enough to season about 1 cup of Caesar salad dressing, and five or six fillets suffice for enough clam sauce to serve four. Anchovies pack big flavor for such small fish. They’re so strong that only a small amount of anchovy is needed to add flavor to sauces, salad dressings, pasta and pizza. That same small amount also delivers health benefits in the form of essential fatty acids, protein and other nutrients
For domestic use, anchovy fillets are packed in oil or salt in small tins or jars, sometimes rolled around capers. Anchovy paste is also available. Fishermen also use anchovies as bait for larger fish, such as tuna and sea bass. The strong taste people associate with anchovies is due to the curing process. Fresh anchovies, known in Italy as alici, have a much milder flavor.