The majority of Chromosomal DNA is non-coding and the location of genes are very important and affect the way they are passed on.   Here is a response from a geneticist, … in point form:    1. Both autosome and sex chromosomes contain genes.  2. A gene is a strand of DNA, a fragment of chromosome  3. Not all of DNA on chromosome contains gene signals. A DNA sequence that  contains gene signals are called coding sequence or exon.
Each gene occupies a certain location on a chromosome. Genes are self-replicating sequences of DNA nucleotides, subject to random structural changes (mutations). Hereditary traits are controlled by pairs of genes in the same position on a pair of chromosomes. These alleles may be either dominant or recessive. gene, sex-linked, n a gene located in a sex chromosome. gene therapy, n a procedure that involves injection of “health genes” into the bloodstream of a patient to cure or treat a hereditary disease or similar illness.
Researchers can use linkage to find the location of a gene on a chromosome. By looking at how often different genes are inherited together, researchers can create maps of the relative distances between them. 
The CFTR gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 at position 7q31.2. Geneticists use maps to describe the location of a particular gene on a chromosome. One type of map uses the cytogenetic location to describe a gene’s position. The cytogenetic location is based on a distinctive pattern of bands created when chromosomes are stained with certain chemicals. The chromosome on which the gene can be found. The first number or letter used to describe a gene’s location represents the chromosome. Chromosomes 1 through 22 (the autosomes) are designated by their chromosome number.
A chromosome is made of a very long strand of DNA and contains many genes (hundreds to thousands). The genes on each chromosome are arranged in a particular sequence, and each gene has a particular location on the chromosome (called its locus). In addition to DNA, chromosomes contain other chemical components that influence gene function. 
Example of bands. A locus (plural loci) is the specific location or position of a gene, DNA sequence, on a chromosome, in the field of genetics. Each chromosome carries many genes; humans' estimated ' haploid ' protein coding genes are 20,000-25,000, on the 23 different chromosomes. A variant of the similar DNA sequence located at a given locus is called an allele
9.7. Remember, you get one chromosome of each homologous pair from each parent (by way of their gametes). Homologous chromosomes have the same sequence of gene locations that control the same characteristics (traits). A gene locus (plural, loci) is the specific location of a gene on a particular chromosome. Use your chromosome models from discussion or lab to illustrate the location of a gene for the production of a particular protein. Illustrate the location of the gene on homologous chromosomes, as well as on sister chromatids.
This address is made up of several parts: The chromosome on which the gene can be found. The first number or letter used to describe a gene’s location represents the chromosome. Chromosomes 1 through 22 (the autosomes) are designated by their chromosome number.