Call us!(888) 784-1722. Fertilizers Ensure the health of your plants and your family with organic fertilizer! Video: Organic Fertilizer Video: Fertigation Video: Soil Tests Video: Plant Nutrition Video: How to Test Soil At the heart of all organic growing is the art and science of fertilizing organically. Healthy soil nurtures healthy plants which generally grow better, taste better, store longer and consequently, should have increased resistance to the stresses caused by heat, cold, drought, pests, diseases, rapid growth, etc.
Organic fertilizers are quite essential for our soil and it helps to improve the value of soil and also helps to protect the crops. Apart from chemical fertilizer most of the gardeners are always choose organic fertilizer which is really suitable for plants and crops.
Organic fertilizers are fertilizers derived from animal matter, human excreta or vegetable matter. (e.g. compost, manure). In contrast, the majority of fertilizers are extracted from minerals (e.g., phosphate rock) or produced industrially (e.g., ammonia).
Home » Organic Gardening » Fertilizers Fertilizers Natural and organic fertilizer differs from chemicals in that they feed your plants while building the soil. Soils with lots of organic material remain loose and airy, hold more moisture and nutrients, foster growth of soil organisms, and promote healthier plant root development.
Many organic materials serve as both fertilizers and soil conditioners—they feed both soils and plants. This is one of the most important differences between a chemical approach and an organic approach toward soil care and fertilizing.
My understanding is the organic fertilizer remains in the soil, releasing nutrients as the molecules are broken down into the nutrients for uptake by the plants. The nutrients not absorbed can leach away with water. Manufactured fertilizers add the nutrients directly to the soil, and can be leached away by water.
Fertilizers. Natural and organic fertilizer differs from chemicals in that they feed your plants while building the soil. Soils with lots of organic material remain loose and airy, hold more moisture and nutrients, foster growth of soil organisms, and promote healthier plant root development.
Organic fertilizers are fertilizer compounds that contain one or more kinds of organic matter. The ingredients may be animal or vegetable matter or a combination of the two. It is possible to purchase commercial brands of organic rich fertilizer as well as prepare organic fertilizer at home by building a compost heap.