News. Filter by: ELS/Juilliard is located at the prestigious Juilliard School at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. It is in the cultural heart of New York City. Lincoln Center is the world's largest performing arts center. In addition to the Juilliard School, it is home to many resident arts organizations. These include The Film Society of Lincoln Center, The Metropolitan Opera, The New York City Ballet, The New York Philharmonic and The School of American Ballet
For the philanthropist who funded the founding of the school, see Augustus D. Juilliard. The Juilliard School, /ˌdʒuːliˈɑrd/ located in the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, New York City, is a performing arts conservatory established in 1905. It is informally referred to as Juilliard /ˈdʒuːliˌɑrd/ . In 1905, the Institute of Musical Art was founded on the premise that the United States did not have a premier music school and too many students were going to Europe to study music. At its formation, the Institute was located in Manhattan at Fifth Avenue and 12th Street.
1 From this station, Juilliard is six blocks south on Broadway. 2  A or C (Eighth Avenue line) and B or D (Sixth Avenue line) to Columbus Circle Station (59th Street). 3  From here, the school is a few blocks north on Broadway. 1 Nos. 2 or 3 (Broadway-Seventh Avenue express) to 72nd Street Station. 2  From this station, Juilliard is six blocks south on Broadway. 3
Overview. The Juilliard School, located in New York City, is one of the world’s most renowned music schools – in fact, it may be considered, by general acclaim, the most famous music school in the world. 
Holiday Inn NEW YORK CITY-MIDTOWN-57TH ST. Located .3 miles from The Juilliard School. More Hotel Information and Book Reservations. Map the Distance Between Holiday Inn NEW YORK CITY-MIDTOWN-57TH ST. and The Juilliard School. Starting Rate: $179. Courtyard New York Manhattan/Central Park. Located .5 miles from The Juilliard School. More Hotel Information and Book Reservations. Map the Distance Between Courtyard New York Manhattan/Central Park and The Juilliard School. Starting Rate: $479 Priced recently for Dec 5 - Dec 6, 2015.
A full DVD will be available through Juilliard soon. Juilliard is one of the premier conservatories in the world. Located at Lincoln Center in New York, Juilliard accepts around six percent of its 1,300 applicants each year. Its alumni include Philip Glass, Kevin Klein, James, Levine, Yo Yo Ma, Stephen Sondheim, Leontyne Price, Miles Davis, John Williams, Kevin Spacey and Ving Rhames. 
Body. Located at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, in the heart of New York City, The Juilliard School welcomes visitors and is readily accessible by car and public transportation. The entrance to the School is at 155 W. 65th Street, between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue. By Subway. 1  No. 1 (Broadway-Seventh Avenue local) to 66th Street Station. 2  Nos. 2 or 3 (Broadway-Seventh Avenue express) to 72nd Street Station. 1 Nos. 2 or 3 (Broadway-Seventh Avenue express) to 72nd Street Station. 2  From this station, Juilliard is six blocks south on Broadway. 3  A or C (Eighth Avenue line) and B or D (Sixth Avenue line) to Columbus Circle Station (59th Street).
It is named for Alice Tully, a New York performer and philanthropist whose donations assisted in the construction of the hall. Tully Hall is located within the Juilliard Building, a Brutalist structure, which was designed by renowned architect Pietro Belluschi, and completed and opened in 1969. Since its opening, it has hosted numerous performances and events, including the New York Film Festival. Tully Hall seats 1,086 patrons. 
Other Colleges in NY. You are viewing information about The Juilliard School which is located on 60 Lincoln Center Plaza in New York, NY. You can contact The Juilliard School in New York at their phone number 212-799-5000. We suggest you check the school website directly to get the exact address of the department you want to reach. The address for The Juilliard School is 60 Lincoln Center Plaza and it is located in New York, NY. The website for this school is: http://www.juilliard.edu. The Juilliard School offers many classes and degrees. To get full information of this university, please visit their website or give them a call for their brochure