TAVR and TAVI are the same thing. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement means that the procedure is done through a samll tube (or catheter), rather than performing open-heart surgery. TAVR is similar to the mitraclip procedure for treating mitral regurgitation. The aortic valve is the structure that resembles a fish’s mouth opening and closing. Aspirin is recommended life long after a TAVR procedure. It is currently recommended a further blood thinning medicine called Plavix also be taken for 3-6 month after the procedure. Some people will be on these medicines long term anyway; such as those patients that have had a previous stent.
A component of the follow-up program will be incorporated into the national Transcatheter Valvular Therapy (TVT) database. Your first follow-up visit with us after the TAVR procedure will be 4 weeks, then 6 months and 12 months, or earlier if necessary. To be considered for TAVR, you will visit us at our Transcatheter Heart Program location in Westchester, NY where our cardiology team will assess your current health condition and medical history and determine if you are an ideal candidate for the TAVR procedure.
The TAVR procedure generally is performed in much less time than open-heart surgery. Additionally, open-heart surgery can require a two-to three-month recovery period, compared to the recovery period of only a few days with the transcatheter approach. The TAVR procedure allows physicians to replace a diseased aortic valve without open-heart surgery. This procedure enables the placement of a heart valve into the body with a catheter, which allows the valve to be inserted through a small incision into an artery.
A patient's experience with a TAVR procedure may be comparable to a balloon treatment or even an angiogram in terms of down time and recovery, and will likely require a shorter hospital stay (average 3-5 days). A TAVR procedure is not without risks, but it provides beneficial treatment options to people who may not have been candidates for them a few years ago while also providing the added bonus of a faster recovery in most cases.
The TAVR Procedure. For high-risk patients and those who are not suitable for open-heart surgery, another option is now available ﻿ - transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) - a less invasive procedure that does not require open-heart surgery. TAVR produces results in lengthening patients’ lives
The transcatheter valve replacement (TAVR) procedure takes about an hour and a half to two hours. However, the total time in the operating room is a bit longer due to setup and recovery. Therefore, the total time in the operating room is usually about four hours. 
TAVR is performed only on patients that have been classified as very high risk and or inoperable. Your cardiologist will be the first one to tell you whether you might be a candidate for the Trans-catheter Aortic Valve Replacement. TAVR is a minimally invasive procedure performed without the need for a heart and lung machine under general anesthesia. A small (3-5 inch) incision (opening) is created in the upper leg through which the new aortic valve is placed.
The Medical Center's heart specialists will perform transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) using the Edwards Sapien XT Valve and Medtronic Evolut R CoreValve, FDA-approved for the treatment of severe aortic stenosis. This procedure will be performed in the Medical Center's new hybrid operating room. To be considered for TAVR, you will visit us at our Transcatheter Heart Program location in Westchester, NY where our cardiology team will assess your current health condition and medical history and determine if you are an ideal candidate for the TAVR procedure.
The transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) procedure takes about 3-4 hours to complete. You will be under general anesthesia for the entire procedure and when you wake up you will be in our Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care Unit. The nurses will quickly get you out of bed and physical therapy will be started. TAVR is a minimally invasive procedure performed without the need for a heart and lung machine under general anesthesia. A small (3-5 inch) incision (opening) is created in the upper leg through which the new aortic valve is placed.