Account based pensions and annuities. An account based pension or annuity (also called an allocated pension) is one of a number of products that you can buy with a lump sum from a superannuation fund, or paid from a self-managed superannuation fund, to give you an income during your retirement. 1 For the purposes of the income test for the age pension, income from an account based (also known as an allocated pension) or annuity will be reduced by an amount that represents the return of your capital. 2  This has not changed. 3  An account based income stream is assessed under the assets test for the age pension.
Investing Basics: Income Streams and Annuities. It is very important to understand an income stream from a conceptual standpoint in the world of financial management. In short an income stream is a regular inflow of money. Another more technical name for this flow of money is an “annuity”
Income annuities can provide a stable and secure source of retirement income. With these types of annuities, you surrender future access to a portion of your savings in exchange for a stream of income that's guaranteed for life. Payments from income annuities can typically start as early as 30 days from the day you sign the contract, as late as your 85th birthday, or on any date in between.
3. Life expectancy pensions and annuities. A life expectancy pension or annuity is one of a number of products that you can buy with a lump sum from a superannuation fund or other money to give you an income during your retirement. 1 For the purposes of the income test for the age pension, income from an account based (also known as an allocated pension) or annuity will be reduced by an amount that represents the return of your capital. 2  This has not changed. 3  An account based income stream is assessed under the assets test for the age pension.
By Daniel Kurt AAA |. A: An annuity is a contract between you and an insurance company in which you make a lump sum payment or series of payments and in return obtain regular disbursements beginning either immediately or at some point in the future. The goal of annuities is to provide a steady stream of income during retirement. Funds accrue on a tax-deferred basis, and like 401(k) contributions, can only be withdrawn without penalty after age 59.5. Many aspects of an annuity can be tailored to the specific needs of the recipient. 
A lifetime pension or annuity is one of a number of products that you can buy with a lump sum from a superannuation fund or other money to give you an income during your retirement. If you already have a lifetime pension or annuity you will not be able to transfer to a new account-based pension or annuity. 1 For the purposes of the income test for the age pension, income from an account based (also known as an allocated pension) or annuity will be reduced by an amount that represents the return of your capital. 2  This has not changed. 3  An account based income stream is assessed under the assets test for the age pension.
Immediate fixed annuities are the oldest, most common type of annuity: you pay an insurance company a lump sum up front, and in return, you receive a fixed monthly payment for life (or some other specific time period)—a reliable stream of income you can't outlive. There are two types of annuities we believe may be worth considering to generate income: immediate fixed annuities and variable annuities. Many variable annuities offer an optional rider (often called guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefits, or GLWBs) that can provide additional protection for your income.
Annuities are a type of investment account typically used for retirement savings or to generate regular income payments in retirement. Annuities are insurance contracts, and the issuing insurance company provides some type of guarantee on your investment.*. With these types of annuities, you surrender future access to a portion of your savings in exchange for a stream of income that's guaranteed for life. Payments from income annuities can typically start as early as 30 days from the day you sign the contract, as late as your 85th birthday, or on any date in between.
An annuity is an insurance product that pays out income, and can be used as part of a retirement strategy. Annuities are a popular choice for investors who want to receive a steady income stream in retirement. Here's how an annuity works: you make an investment in the annuity, and it then makes payments to you on a future date or series of dates.