The lymphatic system is a vascular network of tubules and ducts that collect, filter, and return lymph to blood circulation. Lymph is a clear fluid that comes from blood plasma, which exits blood vessels at capillary beds.
The major lymphatic duct is the Thoracic Duct which returns lymph from the the whole body except from the right side of the head and the right arm/shoulder. These parts are drained by the Subclavian Trunk. Both vessels drain into the junction of the subclavian and jugular veins on their respective sides.
The left lymphatic duct, or thoracic duct, enters the circulatory system at the junction of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins; it returns lymph from the upper left side of the body and from below the diaphragm. lymphatic system the lymphatic vessels and lymphoid tissues considered collectively.
The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries.
lymphatic ducts the two large vessels into which all lymphatic vessels converge. The right lymphatic duct joins the venous system at the junction of the right internal jugular and subclavian veins and carries lymph from the upper right side of the body.
The lymphatic system is a network of vessels that transports nutrients to the cells and collects their waste products. The lymph system consists of lymph capillaries and lymph vessels that are somewhat similar to blood capillaries and blood vessels.
The left lymphatic duct, or thoracic duct, enters the circulatory system at the junction of the left jugular and subclavian veins; it returns lymph from the cranial left side of the body and caudal to the diaphragm.
The left lymphatic duct, or thoracic duct, enters the circulatory system at the junction of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins; it returns lymph from the upper left side of the body and from below the diaphragm. lymphatic system the lymphatic vessels and lymphoid tissues considered collectively.