Results: 1 to 20 of 93. Nortriptyline for neuropathic pain in adults. Neuropathic pain is pain coming from damaged nerves. It is different from pain messages that are carried along healthy nerves from damaged tissue (for example, a fall, or cut, or arthritic knee). Neuropathic pain is treated by different medicines to those used for pain from damaged tissue. Medicines such as paracetamol or ibuprofen are not usually effective in neuropathic pain, while medicines that are sometimes used to treat depression or epilepsy can be very effective in some people with neuropathic pain
Nortriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant that is occasionally used for treating neuropathic pain, and is recommended in European, UK, and USA guidelines. Objectives: To assess the analgesic efficacy and associated adverse events of nortriptyline for chronic neuropathic pain in adults. In January 2015, we performed searches to look for clinical trials where nortriptyline was used to treat neuropathic pain in adults. We found six studies, with 310 participants with various neuropathic pain conditions. Studies were randomised and double-blind, but often with small numbers of participants.
The tricyclic antidepressants, such as amitriptyline, are the “gold standard” for neuropathic pain as they are the most effective and best-known drugs for this condition. They can also be useful for chronic nociceptive pain, especially if there is a neuropathic component to it. 
Other medications can affect the removal of nortriptyline from your body, thereby affecting how nortriptyline works. These drugs include cimetidine, terbinafine, drugs to treat irregular heart rate (such as quinidine/propafenone/flecainide). This is not a complete list. 
This prescription is for the treatment of nerve pain (neuropathic pain). Nortriptyline and amitriptyline are a type of medicine called tricyclic antidepressants. As well as for nerve pain, sometimes people are given these medicines for depression. Nortriptyline and amitriptyline work by changing the chemicals around the nerve cells of the brain. This changes how the brain processes pain signals and may reduce or stop the pain that is felt when nerves are irritated. It is usual to start at a low dose and slowly increase until the pain settles
Neuropathic pain is pain coming from damaged nerves. It is different from pain messages that are carried along healthy nerves from damaged tissue (for example, a fall, or cut, or arthritic knee). Neuropathic pain is treated by different medicines to those used for pain from damaged tissue. In January 2015, we performed searches to look for clinical trials where nortriptyline was used to treat neuropathic pain in adults. We found six studies, with 310 participants with various neuropathic pain conditions. Studies were randomised and double-blind, but often with small numbers of participants.
NORTRIPTYLINE (By mouth) Nortriptyline (nor-TRIP-ti-leen) Treats depression. Also used to treat various types of pain. This medicine is a tricyclic antidepressant. Brand Name(s):Pamelor There may be other brand names for this medicine. It is also a useful treatment for chronic neuropathic pain. Your prescription will be given in generic form, so that the cost will be less than that of the brand name. The medicine comes in 25, 50, and 100 mg tablets. The maximum dose is 150 mg per day but lower doses help may people.
NORTRIPTYLINE Nortriptyline is FDA approved for treatment of symptoms of depression. It is also a useful treatment for chronic neuropathic pain. Your prescription will be given in generic form, so that the cost will be less than that of the brand name. The medicine comes in 25, 50, and 100 mg tablets. The maximum dose is 150 mg per day but lower doses help may people.
Some of the more major side effects of nortriptyline include: Nortriptyline is an antidepressant that can also be to treat back pain. It is a relatively strong medication that is only available through a doctor’s prescription. Nortriptyline can be taken in pill and liquid form in dosages that range from 1-4 times a day. Conditions Treated by Nortriptyline. Common pain conditions treated by nortriptyline include: Because nortriptyline directly affects the nervous system and neural chemistry, it is often prescribed in small doses for nerve-related back pain such as multiple sclerosis, fibromyalgia and post-herpetic neuralgia.