Adverse effects of flunitrazepam include dependence, both physical and psychological; reduced sleep quality resulting in somnolence; and overdose, resulting in excessive sedation, impairment of balance and speech, respiratory depression or coma, and possibly death. 1 In Germany, flunitrazepam is available for prescription as the Roche-Brand Rohypnol 1 mg Film-Coated Tablets and several generic 1 mg tablets (e.g., Fluninoc, Flunitrazepam ratiopharm, Flunitrazepam neuraxpharm).
Rohypnol ® (flunitrazepam) is the brand name of a sleeping pill prescribed for insomnia in Mexico, South America, Europe and Asia. It has NOT been approved for use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in the United States but this has not stopped its distribution. Rohypnol is being called the Date Rape Drug or the Quaalude of the '90s because it is the newest drug to be abused by adding it to alcohol. When combined with alcohol, marijuana, cocaine or other drugs, it can provide a rapid and dramatic high..
In general, the prescription of flunitrazepam as a hypnotic is intended to be for short-term treatment of chronic or severe insomniacs not responsive to other hypnotics, especially in inpatients. It is considered to be one of the most effective benzodiazepine hypnotics on a dose basis. 1 In Germany, flunitrazepam is available for prescription as the Roche-Brand Rohypnol 1 mg Film-Coated Tablets and several generic 1 mg tablets (e.g., Fluninoc, Flunitrazepam ratiopharm, Flunitrazepam neuraxpharm).
Profile. Flunitrazepam, trade name Rohypnol, is a central nervous system depressant in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Benzodiazepines are sedative-hypnotics used to treat anxiety, insomnia and sleep disorders, and seizure disorders; they are also used as skeletal-muscle relaxants
Rohypnol (roofies, 'date-rape' drug) Rohypnol is a prescription-only sedative that has been used in many 'date rapes' in the US, with cases now being reported in Europe and Australia. Rohypnol's medical use is as a pre-operation anaesthetic or strong sleeping pill, but stronger doses can bring on amnesia. Please note that rohypnol is not the only drug associated with date rape and there have been cases linked to GHB and other sedative drugs. Rohypnol has also been used in combination with other drugs to enhance the effects of low grade heroin, to mellow the buzz from crack and heroin, and to soften comedowns.
Rohypnol is the brand name for a drug called Flunitrazepam, which is a powerful sedative that depresses the central nervous system. Rohypnol is not legally available for prescription in the United States, but is legal in 60 countries worldwide for treatment of insomnia. 
Rohypnol or Roofies Information. Flunitrazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative marketed by Roche under the trade name Rohypnol. It is sometimes known as the date rape drug or by the street name of roofies. While Flunitrazepam is called Rohypnol when marketed by Roche, it is also sold by other companies under the names Darkene, Flunipam, Flunitrazepam, Fluscand, Hipnosedon, Hypnodorm,, Ilman, Insom, Nilium, Silece, and Vulbegal.
Rohypnol is the trade name for flunitrazepam. It has been a concern for the last few years because of its abuse as a date rape drug. People may unknowingly be given the drug that, when mixed with alcohol, can incapacitate victims and prevent them from resisting sexual assault. Rohypnol, Gamma hydroxybutyrate -- GHB -- drug fact sheet. Drug-facilitated rape is defined as sexual assault made easier by the offender's use of an anesthetic-type drug that renders the victim physically incapacitated or helpless and unable to consent to sexual activity.
Flunitrazepam /ˌfluːnɨˈtraezɨpaem/ , ˌfluːnɨˈtræzɨpæm also known As rohypnol among, others is an intermediate acting benzodiazepine used as an, hypnotic, sedative, anticonvulsant, anxiolytic and skeletal muscle relaxant. drug 1 In Germany, flunitrazepam is available for prescription as the Roche-Brand Rohypnol 1 mg Film-Coated Tablets and several generic 1 mg tablets (e.g., Fluninoc, Flunitrazepam ratiopharm, Flunitrazepam neuraxpharm).