Anaphylaxis is a serious allergic reaction that is rapid in onset and may cause death. It typically causes a number of symptoms including an itchy rash, throat swelling, and low blood pressure. Common causes include insect bites and stings, foods, and medications. 
Shock develops as the result of diminished blood flow to the body’s vital organs. The most common type of shock is known as hypovolemic (low-volume) shock, a direct result of diminished blood flow. Traumatic injury can cause serious bleeding, resulting in a decrease in the amount of blood in the body and an increase in the risk of shock. Shock is a condition that affects the body’s major organs and occurs when the body does not receive an adequate flow of blood. There are multiple causes for shock, including heart disorders, severe dehydration, trauma, surgical blood loss, and infection
This content was last reviewed on 10/23/2014. Ventricular fibrillation is life-threatening. Ventricular fibrillation (v-fib for short) is the most serious cardiac rhythm disturbance. The lower chambers quiver and the heart can't pump any blood, causing cardiac arrest. 1  Sudden loss of responsiveness (no response to tapping on shoulders). 2  No normal breathing (the victim is not breathing or is only gasping)
Circulatory shock is a life-threatening medical emergency and one of the most common causes of death for critically ill people. Circulatory shock is not related to the emotional state of shock. Circulatory shock is a life-threatening medical emergency and one of the most common causes of death for critically ill people. Shock can have a variety of effects, all with similar outcomes, but all relate to a problem with the body's circulatory system.
Circulatory shock, commonly known as shock, is a life-threatening medical condition of low blood perfusion to tissues resulting in cellular injury and inadequate tissue function. Circulatory shock is not related to the emotional state of shock. Circulatory shock is a life-threatening medical emergency and one of the most common causes of death for critically ill people. Shock can have a variety of effects, all with similar outcomes, but all relate to a problem with the body's circulatory system.
1 This is one of the most serious, and sometimes life-threatening, complications of dehydration. 2  It occurs when low blood volume causes a drop in blood pressure and a drop in the amount of oxygen in your body. 3  Kidney failure. 1 It occurs when low blood volume causes a drop in blood pressure and a drop in the amount of oxygen in your body. 2  Kidney failure. 3  This potentially life-threatening problem occurs when your kidneys are no longer able to remove excess fluids and waste from your blood. 4  Coma and death.
1 Low blood volume shock (hypovolemic shock). 2  This is one of the most serious, and sometimes life-threatening, complications of dehydration. 3  It occurs when low blood volume causes a drop in blood pressure and a drop in the amount of oxygen in your body. 1 It occurs when low blood volume causes a drop in blood pressure and a drop in the amount of oxygen in your body. 2  Kidney failure. 3  This potentially life-threatening problem occurs when your kidneys are no longer able to remove excess fluids and waste from your blood. 4  Coma and death.
1 Anaphylaxis is the most severe allergic reaction and is potentially life threatening. 2  Anaphylaxis is rare. 3  The vast majority of people will never have an anaphylactic reaction. 4  The most common causes of anaphylaxis include drugs, such as penicillin, insect stings, foods (peanuts, shellfish), X-ray dye, and latex. 1 The most common causes of anaphylaxis include drugs, such as penicillin, insect stings, foods (peanuts, shellfish), X-ray dye, and latex. 2  The symptoms of anaphylaxis may vary and can include hives, tongue swelling, vomiting, and even shock. 3  If someone is at risk, avoidance is the best form of treatment.