Astrocytes (Astro from Greek astron = star and cyte from Greek kyttaron = cell), also known collectively as astroglia, are characteristic star-shaped glial cells in the brain and spinal cord. The proportion of astrocytes in the brain is not well defined. Depending on the counting technique used, studies have found that the astrocyte proportion varies by region and ranges from 20% to 40% of all glia. 1 Astrocytes get their name because they are star-shaped. 2  They are the most abundant glial cells in the brain that are closely associated with neuronal synapses. 3  They regulate the transmission of electrical impulses within the brain.
List: Astrocyte Functions. Astrocytes are a special kind of stellate-shaped brain cells that are found throughout the central nervous system and that play a supportive role for neurons. For a long time, astrocytes were thought of as merely providing “assistance” for neuron function and survival. 1 Astrocytes can serve as signaling elements within an astrocyte network, between astrocytes and blood vessels, and/or between astrocytes and neurons. 2  For example, astrocytes can signal to other neurons via Ca+2 oscillations (otherwise known as calcium waves).
Astrocytes are a special kind of stellate-shaped brain cells that are found throughout the central nervous system and that play a supportive role for neurons. 1 Astrocytes can serve as signaling elements within an astrocyte network, between astrocytes and blood vessels, and/or between astrocytes and neurons. 2  For example, astrocytes can signal to other neurons via Ca+2 oscillations (otherwise known as calcium waves).
The dark 'star-like' figures are the astrocytes. Astrocytes are star shaped glial cells that perform a variety of functions in the CNS. Astrocytes provide physical support to neurons and clean up debris within the brain. They also provide neurons with some of the chemicals needed for proper functioning and help control the chemical composition of fluid surrounding neurons. In order to provide physical support for neurons astrocytes form a matrix that keep neurons in place. In addition, this matrix serves to isolate synapses. This limits the dispersion of transmitter substances released by terminal buttons; thus aiding in the smooth transmission of neural messages.
Astrocytes (literally ‘star-like cells’) are the most numerous and diverse neuroglial cells in the CNS. While most neuroscientists think they know what an astrocyte is, there is no uniform and unequivocal definition of an astrocyte. Not all astrocytes are star-like cells, not all of them express the specific marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), not all contact brain capillaries. Astrocytes are actually the cell population in the brain which are left over after one would remove neurons, oligodendrocytes and microglial cells.
Glial cells are also called neuroglia or glia, which is Greek for glue.. The two main types of cells in the nervous system are glia and neurons. Glial cells are non-neuronal cells which provide support, protection and nutrition for neurons, as well as maintain homeostasis and form myelin. • Not all astrocytes contact brain capillaries. Astrocytes are actually the cell population in the brain which are left over after neurons, oligodendrocytes and microglial cells are removed. Subsequently, astroglial cells display a heterogeneity in their morphology and function.
Nouns denoting body parts. Synonyms: astroglia; macroglia. Hypernyms (astroglia is a kind of...): glia; neuroglia (sustentacular tissue that surrounds and supports neurons in the central nervous system; glial and neural cells together compose the tissue of the central nervous system). Meronyms (parts of astroglia):
Astrocytes express potassium and sodium channels and can exhibit evoked inward currents, but unlike neurons, astrocytes do not ‘fire’ or propagate action potentials along their processes [ 162, 212 ]. However, this does not mean that astrocytes are physiologically ‘silent’. Glaucoma is characterized by unexplained loss of retinal ganglion neurons and by the reactive gliosis of astrocytes and related Mueller müller cells in the, retina and the reactivity of astrocytes that surround ganglion cell axons in the optic nerve. head
Astrocytes (star cells) have radially arranged processes. Their cytoplasm contains intermediate filaments composed of a distinct protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) . Antibodies against this protein are routinely used to demonstrate reactive and neoplastic astrocytes. 
1 Astrocyte (Astroglia): Star-shaped cells that provide physical and nutritional support for neurons: 1) clean up brain debris; 2) transport nutrients to neurons; 3) hold neurons in place; 4) digest parts of dead neurons; 5) regulate content of extracellular space. There are a few ways in which glia cells are different from neurons: 1  Neurons have TWO processes called axons and dendrites....glial cells have only ONE. 2  Neurons CAN generate action potentials...glial cells CANNOT. 3  However, glial cells do have a resting potential.