A number of Aboriginal peoples lived in the lands surrounding the Bogan River for many thousands of years. In the area surrounding Peak Hill, the indigenous inhabitants of the area were the Wiradjuri clan. In the area surrounding Nyngan, the Ngiyambaa Aboriginal people were the principal custodians of the land. From the foothills of the Herveys Range, the Bogan River rises to the west of the headwaters of the Little River at Cooks Myalls, near Goonumbla, 19 kilometres (12 mi) north-west of Parkes.
In 2007, Microsoft deemed bogan to be one of twenty colloquialisms most relevant to Australian users when the word was added to the dictionary of Microsoft Office 2007. The word entered the Oxford English Dictionary in June 2012. Although the term bogan is understood across Australia and New Zealand, certain regions have their own slang terms for the same group of people. These terms include:  1 Chigger (also chigga or chig) in Tasmania. 2  This appears to be a reference to the Hobart suburb of Chigwell.
Map: Nyngan 2825. The Nyngan Aboriginal Land Council has written a letter to Bogan Shire Council, asking them to fly the flag next to the Australian flag. The chief of the land council, Veneta Dutton, said the Aboriginal flag had much more of a meaning to Indigenous people. She said the area had a large Aboriginal population and council should recognise that. Funding comes into our community that is aboriginal funding, she said
The bogan person will generally lack sophistication and refinement. Over the course of the last several decades, the bogan has become a very widespread and well recognised subculture, often as an example of bad taste. Various localised names exist that describe the same or very similar groups of people. Although the term bogan is understood across Australia and New Zealand, certain regions have their own slang terms for the same group of people. These terms include:  1 Chigger (also chigga or chig) in Tasmania. 2  This appears to be a reference to the Hobart suburb of Chigwell.
There's 50 houses in the community that are owned by aboriginal people that is including Nyngan land council and Bogan aboriginal corporation as well as department of housing.. Ms Dutton said the Australian flag caused a lot of hurt and grief to members of the community. The chief of the land council, Veneta Dutton, said the Aboriginal flag had much more of a meaning to Indigenous people. She said the area had a large Aboriginal population and council should recognise that.
The term bogan (/ˈboʊɡən/) is an Australian and New Zealand slang word that can be used to describe a person with a lower working-class background, or whose speech, clothing, attitude and behaviour exemplify a gratified working class mentality and depending on the context, can be pejorative or self-deprecating. Although the term bogan is understood across Australia and New Zealand, certain regions have their own slang terms for the same group of people. These terms include:  1 Chigger (also chigga or chig) in Tasmania. 2  This appears to be a reference to the Hobart suburb of Chigwell.
From its origin near Parkes, the Bogan River flows for about 617 kilometres (383 mi) in length and flows into the Little Bogan River to form the Darling River, near Bourke. From the foothills of the Herveys Range, the Bogan River rises to the west of the headwaters of the Little River at Cooks Myalls, near Goonumbla, 19 kilometres (12 mi) north-west of Parkes.
An Aboriginal word meaning either 'windy place', 'large swamp' or 'place of flooded box trees'. Bouddi. is An Aboriginal word for 'a heart' or 'water breaking over rocks'. Boyanup. Is a Noongar Aboriginal name, said to mean a place of quartz - Boya means rock or stone. Bundamba. The origin of the suburb name is from the Yugarabul Aboriginal language meaning place of the stone axe. 
Melbourne street art of a stereotypical male bogan. He is depicted as a repulsive character with a cigarette in his mouth, a tomato sauce-covered meat pie in one hand and a stubby of Melbourne Bitter in the other. On his arm is a tattoo of Ned Kelly. Although the term bogan is understood across Australia and New Zealand, certain regions have their own slang terms for the same group of people. These terms include:  1 Chigger (also chigga or chig) in Tasmania. 2  This appears to be a reference to the Hobart suburb of Chigwell.
The name Bogan is an Australian Aboriginal term meaning 'the birthplace of a notable headman of the local tribe'; and is also a Gaelic term meaning bog. From the foothills of the Herveys Range, the Bogan River rises to the west of the headwaters of the Little River at Cooks Myalls, near Goonumbla, 19 kilometres (12 mi) north-west of Parkes.