Polystyrene (PS) /ˌpɒliˈstaɪriːn/ is a synthetic aromatic polymer made from the monomer styrene. Polystyrene can be solid or foamed. General purpose polystyrene is clear, hard, and rather brittle. It is an inexpensive resin per unit weight. Taking the carbon dioxide figures as a representation of the amount of styrene that had completely degraded to gas as is of interest here, rates of styrene degradation ranged from 0.14 to 0.4 a−1. This is an order of magnitude faster than the most rapid rate of polystyrene degradation identified (Kaplan et al.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopaedia. Like other organic compounds, polystyrene is flammable. Polystyrene is classified according to DIN4102 as a B3 product, meaning highly flammable or Easily Ignited.. 
As a thermoplastic polymer, polystyrene is in a solid (glassy) state at room temperature but flows if heated above about 100 °C, its glass transition temperature. Taking the carbon dioxide figures as a representation of the amount of styrene that had completely degraded to gas as is of interest here, rates of styrene degradation ranged from 0.14 to 0.4 a−1. This is an order of magnitude faster than the most rapid rate of polystyrene degradation identified (Kaplan et al.
The international pictogram for flammable chemicals. Flammability is the ability of a substance to burn or ignite, causing fire or combustion. The degree of difficulty required to cause the combustion of a substance is quantified through fire testing. Internationally, a variety of test protocols exist to quantify flammability. 
Flammability is defined at how easily something will burn or ignite, causing fire or combustion. The degree of difficulty required to cause the combustion of a substance is su … bject to quantification through fire testing. Internationally, a variety of test protocols exist to quantify flammability. Some Styrofoam (this is the brand name for a type of  plastic) can be safely used in a microwave oven but you should  check for a microwave-safe label first.     A … ccording to the Harvard Medial School, the FDA tests the safety of  all plastic containers under conditions within their intended use.
In chemical terms, polystyrene is a long chain hydrocarbon wherein alternating carbon centers are attached to phenyl groups (the name given to the aromatic ring benzene). Polystyrene's chemical formula is (C 8H 8) n; it contains the chemical elements carbon and hydrogen. Taking the carbon dioxide figures as a representation of the amount of styrene that had completely degraded to gas as is of interest here, rates of styrene degradation ranged from 0.14 to 0.4 a−1. This is an order of magnitude faster than the most rapid rate of polystyrene degradation identified (Kaplan et al.
Flexible Polyurethane Foam Flammability. Flexible polyurethane foam (FPF) is an organic material and, like all organic materials, is flammable. Organic materials include a variety of common substances including wood, paper, cotton, wool, nylon, polyester, polyethylene, and polystyrene and other plastic materials. It is the responsibility of the foam buyer to select the proper FPF to meet specific end-use requirements. It is the end-user's responsibility to comply with any applicable building code, occupancy requirements and flammability standards and to take reasonable precautions to protect FPF products from ignition.
Polystyrene is considered highly flammable. In the case of styrofoam, the polystyrene is expanded using inert gas, so it is hard to get the oxygen required for a flame to take hold. RE: is Styrofoam flammable? i want to make a smoke bomb and i have a lot of Styrofoam, a ping-pong ball and some matches. if you have a link please give it to me.