Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: career (Noun). One's calling in life; a person's occupation; one's profession. career (Noun). An individualu2019s work and life roles over their lifespan. career (Noun). speed. career (Noun). A jouster's path during a joust. career (Noun). Career (noun). general course of action or conduct in life, or in a particular part or calling in life, or in some special undertaking; usually applied to course or conduct which is of a public character; as, Washington's career as a soldier.
Based on Latin carrus, ‘wheeled vehicle’ (see car), career was first used in English to mean both ‘a racecourse’ and ‘a short gallop at full speed, a charge’. From these developed the modern use, for the stages in a person's professional employment, the course of their working life. 1 An occupation undertaken for a significant period of a person’s life and with opportunities for progress: he seemed destined for a career as an engineer like his father. More example sentences.
career noun [C]. B1 the ​job or ​series of ​jobs that you do during ​your ​working ​life, ​especially if you ​continue to get ​better ​jobs and ​earn more ​money: He's ​hoping for a career in the ​police ​force/as a ​police ​officer. career verb [I usually + adv/prep]. › (​especially of a ​vehicle) to ​move ​fast and in a way that is out of ​control: The ​coach careered down a ​slope and ​collided with a ​bank. (Definition of career from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
The symbols you are referring to depict a player's so called specialities. Specialities are divided into silver and gold ones, where gold ones are showing that the player is a really great talent. 
The term alumnus (m; Pl.:-i) respectively alumna (f.; Pl.:-ae) has its origin in the Latin language. It means pupil, literally the nurtured (origin: alere: nurture). Originally students of a so-called alumnat, a boarding school, were called alumnae/alumni. Today the term alumnae/alumni refers to the graduates of a university or a similar educational institution. However, when actually used, the meaning of the term depends on the thematic context and the individual point of view. In a narrower sense it may refer to a group of graduates of a university or, in broader sense, to everybody connected to a university
The Cambridge English Dictionary is constantly being updated and expanded to reflect the interests of our users. One area of particular interest to our users is that of English Language Teaching (ELT), and a number of ELT terms have recently been added to the dictionary. career verb [I usually + adv/prep]. › (​especially of a ​vehicle) to ​move ​fast and in a way that is out of ​control: The ​coach careered down a ​slope and ​collided with a ​bank. (Definition of career from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
Diffen › English Language. A person usually holds several jobs in their career. It is usually easier to change jobs in the same field of work that define ones career. However, switching careers is more difficult and may require the person to start at the bottom of the ladder in the new career. In commercial enterprises, the basic purpose of a job is to create profits for the employer, and the employee contributes labor to the enterprise, in return for payment of wages, or stock options etc. Career is defined as. 1  an occupation or profession, esp. one requiring special training, followed as one's lifework.