A Central Processing Unit (CPU). A computer fan can pull in cool air from outside the device to prevent it from over heating. A heatsink is the part of a computer designed to move heat away from a computer's central processing unit. The CPU is placed into a pre-configured slot in a motherboard and acts as the brain of any computer. The CPU is the brain of the computer. View slideshow of images above
CPU (pronounced as separate letters) is the abbreviation for central processing unit. Sometimes referred to simply as the central processor, but more commonly called processor, the CPU is the brains of the computer where most calculations take place. In terms of computing power, the CPU is the most important element of a computer system. 
The CPU (Central Processing Unit) is just what the name suggests. It is the main brain (do NOT use that term, it is nowhere near a brain) of your computer. All the managemen … t tasks (registers, memory, graphics, etc.) rout through your CPU. 1 The Function of Your Computer's Processing Unit Computer owners may know that their computer has a computer processing unit (CPU), but many do not know what exactly it does. 2  It is good to know what the function of your com…. 3  Geared Up: Today's Top Gadgets for Your CPU The CPU is the brains
The central processing unit (CPU) is the brain of your computer. It handles all the instructions you give your computer, and the faster it does this, the better. Learn about how a CPU processes instructions and how computer engineers are continuously coming up with ways to make it go faster. Lesson Summary. In summary, a CPU is the brain of a computer, processing all the instructions you give it. A CPU has various components to receive the instructions, process them, and then transform them into signals to activate other parts of the computer.
Stands for Central Processing Unit.. The CPU is the primary component of a computer that processes instructions. It runs the operating system and applications, constantly receiving input from the user or active software programs. 
CPUs/Processors. CPU (is also known as Central Processing Unit or Processor) is the most important component of a computer. CPU/Processor is used to explain computer instructions and process software data in computer. CPU/Processor can be divided into desktop processors, server processors, and mobile p
Bottom side of an Intel 80486DX2. A central processing unit (CPU) is the electronic circuitry within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetic, logical, control and input/output (I/O) operations specified by the instructions. Traditionally, the term CPU refers to a processor, more specifically to its processing unit and control unit (CU), distinguishing these core elements of a computer from external components such as main memory and I/O circuitry.
2- It's works as brain of your computer... 3- CPU purpose is to quick reading data 4- Its give the instruction to your computer.its the hard of your computer 5- it is the main processor in a computer that processes all the logic statements put to it. Source has been added as a related link. 1 The Function of Your Computer's Processing Unit Computer owners may know that their computer has a computer processing unit (CPU), but many do not know what exactly it does. 2  It is good to know what the function of your com…. 3  Geared Up: Today's Top Gadgets for Your CPU The CPU is the brains
CPU (Central Processing Unit) The CPU, also called the processor or microprocessor, is the most important component in a PC. The CPU receives data input by the user, processes … information and executes commands. In a PC, the CPU is housed in a single chip called a microprocessor. 1 The Function of Your Computer's Processing Unit Computer owners may know that their computer has a computer processing unit (CPU), but many do not know what exactly it does. 2  It is good to know what the function of your com…. 3  Geared Up: Today's Top Gadgets for Your CPU The CPU is the brains of your computer.