The dorsal nerve cord is later modified in vertebrates into the central nervous system which is composed of the brain and spinal cord. Dorsal nerve cord is mainly found in subphylum Vertebrata. Dorsal means the back side, as opposed to Ventral which is the front side of an organism. In organisms with Bipedalism dorsal is the back and ventral is the front.
Chordata-Vertebrates, Tunicates, Lancelets. At some point, all of the organisms in this phylum have a structure called a notochord. A notochord is a flexible rod-like cord of cells that provides the main support for the organism's body during its embryonic stage. In some primitive species, the slits are used to filter food out of the water. In other species, like fish, the pharyngeal slits have gills. In other species, like mammals, the pharyngeal slits are only present during the embryonic stage. Chordates also have a dorsal nerve cord that runs down the length of the organism. The dorsal nerve cord has pairs of nerves that connect to the organism's muscles. In some organisms, the dorsal nerve cord expands into a brain at the top. All chordates have a post-anal tail. A post-anal tail is an extension of the body that runs past the anal opening
For the leaf shape, see Cordate. Chordates (/ˈkɔrdeɪts/) are animals possessing a notochord, a hollow dorsal nerve cord, pharyngeal slits, an endostyle, and a post-anal tail for at least some period of their life cycles. The current consensus is that chordates are monophyletic, meaning that the Chordata include all and only the descendants of a single common ancestor, which is itself a chordate, and that craniates' nearest relatives are cephalochordates.
Living members of the phylum Chordata include four types of vertebrate chordates belonging to the subphylum Vertebrata fish, amphibians, birds and mammals-and three types of invertebrate chordates cephalochordates, urochordates and hagfish (subphylum Myxini, class Myxini). 
Section 2 • Invertebrate Chordates 803 Chordates are animal s belonging to the phylum Chordata (kor DAH tuh) that have four distinctive features—a dorsal tubular nerve cord, a notochord, pharyngeal pouches, and a postanal tail—at some point during their development. Most chordates are vertebrates. Invertebrate chordates, which belong to two of the subphyla of chordates—Cephalochordata and Urochordata, also have a dorsal tubular nerve cord, a notochord, pharyngeal pouches, a postanal tail, and, possibly, an ancestral thyroid gland. They ha ve no backbone, however.
However, unlike echinoderms, chordates are characterized by a notochord, jointed appendages, and segmentation. Four features characterize the chordates and have played an important role in the evolution of the phylum: 1. A single, hollow nerve cord runs just beneath the dorsal surface of the animal. In vertebrates, the dorsal nerve cord differentiates into the brain and spinal cord. 2. A flexible rod, the notochord, forms on the dorsal side of the primitive gut in the early embryo and is present at some developmental stage in all chordates. The notochord is located just below the nerve cord. In lancelets, the notochord runs the entire length of the dorsal nerve cord and persists throughout the animal's life. Characteristics of Vertebrates The evolution of vertebrates involved invasions of sea, land, and air. Vertebrates (subphylum Vertebrata) are chordates with a spinal column.
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2013). The dorsal nerve cord is one of the embryonic features unique to chordates, along with a notochord, a post-anal tail, an endostyle, and pharyngeal slits. The dorsal nerve cord is a hollow cord dorsal to the notochord. Dorsal nerve cord is mainly found in subphylum Vertebrata. Dorsal means the back side, as opposed to Ventral which is the front side of an organism. In organisms with Bipedalism dorsal is the back and ventral is the front.