A five-lined skink doesn't always have a blue tail. A persistent popular conviction in the southeastern United States maintains that the five-lined skink or blue-tailed lizard is poisonous to cats. The scientific and veterinary communities, meanwhile, remain divided on this issue. The lizard with the bright blue tail, like the Tar Baby, don' say nuffin'
Some skinks may be poisonous to eat. I have heard of cats becoming ill from eating blue-tailed skinks, but the information among veterinarians I have talked to is contradictory and not definitive. Most skinks in the southeastern region are similar in behavior, general habitat, and appearance. Juveniles of the most common species have smooth black bodies with yellow stripes down the body and a bright metallic blue tail. by Whit Gibbons. During warmer months, I am asked many questions about lizards, especially skinks and geckos. Of the almost 6,000 living species of lizards currently recognized, the ones in these families are the most abundant and widespread globally, collectively representing more than half of the world's lizards.
According to folklore wisdom, some skinks are poisonous and are even called scorpions to reflect this association. In reality, skinks are not poisonous and will only bite if provoked; the bite of smaller skinks like the Five-lined Skink is not painful and not likely to break the skin. Common Name: Five-lined Skink, Blue-tailed Skink, Red-headed Skink-Skink is derived from the Greek word for lizard, skinkos; five-lined refers to the distinctive linear dorsal markings of this species of skink.
The (American) five-lined skink (Plestiodon fasciatus) is a species of lizard endemic to North America. It is one of the most common lizards in the eastern U.S. and one of the seven native species of lizards in Canada. In the United States, the Plestiodon fasciatus or Common Five-lined Skink is an indigenous reptile of Virginia.
Southeastern five-lined skinks are moderately large lizards with short legs and a streamlined body. The body is generally gray, brown, or black, in background color with five white or yellowish stripes (two on each side and one down the center of the back). This species may be found on the ground or in trees and is often common in dry, wooded habitats where there are an abundance of fallen trees and stumps to hide in. Southeastern five-lined skinks prefer drier habitats that the similar five-lined skink, and are particularly common in dry pine forests and in coastal areas.
Notes: The blue-tailed young of southeastern five-lined, five-lined, and broadhead skinks are widely referred to as scorpions and are believed to have a venomous sting. While this belief is completely false, some scientists speculate that these skinks are bad-tasting to many predators. This species may be found on the ground or in trees and is often common in dry, wooded habitats where there are an abundance of fallen trees and stumps to hide in. Southeastern five-lined skinks prefer drier habitats that the similar five-lined skink, and are particularly common in dry pine forests and in coastal areas.
During warmer months, I am asked many questions about lizards, especially skinks and geckos. Of the almost 6,000 living species of lizards currently recognized, the ones in these families are the most abundant and widespread globally, collectively representing more than half of the world's lizards. Some skinks may be poisonous to eat. I have heard of cats becoming ill from eating blue-tailed skinks, but the information among veterinarians I have talked to is contradictory and not definitive. Most skinks in the southeastern region are similar in behavior, general habitat, and appearance. Juveniles of the most common species have smooth black bodies with yellow stripes down the body and a bright metallic blue tail. This distinctive color pattern is seen in a more subdued fashion in adult female
Description: 6 - 13 in (15 - 33 cm). Broadhead skinks are the largest skink in the southeast, and with the exception of the glass lizards, are the largest lizards in our region. These large lizards have short legs and a streamlined body. Notes: The blue-tailed young of five-lined, southeastern five-lined, and broadhead skinks are widely referred to as scorpions and are believed to have a venomous sting. While this belief is completely false, some scientists speculate that these skinks are bad-tasting to many predators.