Dental instrument for measuring arterial blood pressure consisting of an inflatable cuff, inflating bulb, and a gauge showing the blood pressure. [G. sphygmos, pulsation, + manos, sparse, + metron, measure]. n an instrument for indirect measurement of blood pressure. An instrument for measuring blood pressure in the arteries, especially one consisting of a pressure gauge and a rubber cuff that wraps around the upper arm and inflates to constrict the arteries. sphyg′mo·man′o·met′ric (-măn′ə-mĕt′rĭk) adj.
A sphygmomanometer is medical device that is used to measure the blood pressure of a person. It consists of a cuff that can be inflated to stop the blood flow and mercury mete … r or manometer that is used to measure the blood pressure. It is commonly used along with the stethoscope. The inflation bulb for a sphygmomanometer injects air into the blood pressure cuff. That's it. The measurement of blood pressure is achieved by the mercurial monometer attache … d to the cuff, or in some cases, directly off the bulb.
The sphygmomanometer is a device used to measure blood pressure. The cuff restricts arterial blood flow, the bulb inflates the cuff, the valve on the bulb deflates the cuff, and the and the manometer measures air pressure. The inflation bulb for a sphygmomanometer injects air into the blood pressure cuff. That's it. The measurement of blood pressure is achieved by the mercurial monometer attache … d to the cuff, or in some cases, directly off the bulb.
A sphygmomanometer consists of a hand bulb pump, a unit that displays the blood pressure reading, and an inflatable cuff that is usually wrapped around a person's upper arm. Care should be taken to ensure that the cuff size is appropriate for the person whose blood pressure is being taken. The sphygmomanometer is designed to monitor blood pressure by measuring the force of the blood in the heart where the pressure is greatest. This occurs during the contraction of the ventricles, when blood is pumped from the heart to the rest of the body (systolic pressure).
Sphygmomanometer: An instrument for measuring blood pressure, particularly in arteries. The two types of sphygmomanometers are a mercury column and a gauge with a dial face. The sphygmomanometer in most frequent use today consists of a gauge attached to a rubber cuff which is wrapped around the upper arm and is inflated to constrict the arteries. A blood pressure reading consists of two numbers: systolic and diastolic. Systolic refers to systole, the phase when the heart pumps blood out into the aorta. Diastolic refers to diastole, the resting period when the heart refills with blood.
An instrument for measuring blood pressure in the arteries, especially one consisting of a pressure gauge and a nylon or rubber cuff that wraps around the upper arm and inflates to constrict the arteries. sphyg′mo·man′o·met′ric (-măn′ə-mĕt′rĭk) adj. 
Definition of SPHYGMOMANOMETER. : an instrument for measuring blood pressure and especially arterial blood pressure. — sphyg·mo·ma·nom·e·try \-mə-ˈnae-ˈnä-mə\ trē. Noun see sphygmomanometer defined for. KIDS. advertisement : an instrument for measuring blood pressure and especially arterial blood pressure. — sphyg·mo·ma·nom·e·try \-mə-ˈnae-ˈnä-mə\ trē. Noun see sphygmomanometer defined for. kids
A sphygmomanometer is medical device that is used to measure the blood pressure of a person. It consists of a cuff that can be inflated to stop the blood flow and mercury mete … r or manometer that is used to measure the blood pressure. It is commonly used along with the stethoscope. The inflation bulb for a sphygmomanometer injects air into the blood pressure cuff. That's it. The measurement of blood pressure is achieved by the mercurial monometer attache … d to the cuff, or in some cases, directly off the bulb.
A sphygmomanometer consists of an inflatable cuff, a measuring unit (the mercury manometer, or aneroid gauge), and a mechanism for inflation which may be a manually operated bulb and valve or a pump operated electrically. 