In 1800, Indiana became the name of a territory. Parts Michigan and Illinois both broke away from the territory before it became a state in 1816. Miami County was formed in 1832 from Cass County and unorganized land. It was named for the Miami, a Native American people, many of whom still live in this area.
Miami County is a county located in the U.S. state of Indiana. As of 2010, the population was 36,903. The county seat is Peru. Parts Michigan and Illinois both broke away from the territory before it became a state in 1816. Miami County was formed in 1832 from Cass County and unorganized land. It was named for the Miami, a Native American people, many of whom still live in this area.
Since 1983, Deeds Land Surveying has been in business providing land surveying services in north central Indiana and has conducted over 4,000 surveys. Our main area of operation is Miami, Cass, Wabash, Howard and Fulton Counties which includes the Cities of Peru, Logansport, Wabash, Kokomo and Rochester. 
4.8%. According to our research of Indiana and other state lists there was 1 registered sex offender living in Denver, Indiana as of October 05, 2015. The ratio of number of residents in Denver to the number of sex offenders is 474 to 1. The number of registered sex offenders compared to the number of residents in this city is near the state average. Median real estate property taxes paid for housing units with mortgages in 2013: $303 (0.4%).
Doud Orchards is located in the heart of Hoosierland, Denver, Indiana, 10 miles north of Peru.The family business began with Lorenzo Doud, who, in 1843, moved to Miami County from New York to farm 80 acres of Indian Reserve land. Today, Doud's is the second oldest orchard in the state according to records from the Indiana Horticultural Society. The orchard is now owned by Steve and Connie Doud. It currently produces over 50 varieties of quality, tree-ripened apples for any season, taste preference or use.
Denver ranks in the upper quartile for Population Density when compared to the other cities, towns and Census Designated Places (CDPs) in Indiana. See peer rankings below. The primary coordinate point for Denver is located at latitude 40.8645 and longitude -86.077 in Miami County. The formal boundaries for the Town of Denver (see map below) encompass a land area of 0.23 sq. miles and a water area of 0 sq. miles. Miami County is in the Eastern time zone (GMT -5). The elevation is 709 feet. The Town of Denver (GNIS ID: 2396685) has a C1 Census Class Code which indicates an active incorporated place that does not serve as a county subdivision equivalent.
As the population of the county increased, new townships were erected from time to time until now there are fourteen in the county: Allen, Butler, Clay, Deer Creek, Erie, Harrison, Jackson, Jefferson, Perry, Peru, Pipe Creek, Richland, Union and Washington. Some of the most picturesque and romantic scenery in Miami County is in Butler Township. The “Seven Pillars” on the Mississinewa River and the rugged bluffs along the stream are among the beauty spots of Indiana. The first white man credited with locating within the limits of the township was Martin Wilhelm.
Search and see photos of adoptable pets in the Denver, Indiana area. Adopt-a-Pet.com is the easiest way for you to search for a new pet in Denver, Indiana. 
Denver, Indiana. The town of Denver, located in Jefferson Township, was laid out by Harrison Grimes in 1872 when the Eel River Railroad was being built there. Denver is home to North Miami Community Schools. Denver hosts the Denver Days Festival from Thursday through Sunday the second weekend in August each year
Denver, Indiana The town of Denver, located in Jefferson Township, was laid out by Harrison Grimes in 1872 when the Eel River Railroad was being built there. Denver is home to North Miami Community Schools. Denver hosts the Denver Days Festival from Thursday through Sunday the second weekend in August each year.