rhesus factor-a blood group antigen possessed by Rh-positive people; if an Rh-negative person receives a blood transfusion from an Rh-positive person it can result in hemolysis and anemia. 1. rhesus factor-a blood group antigen possessed by Rh-positive people; if an Rh-negative person receives a blood transfusion from an Rh-positive person it can result in hemolysis and anemia. Rh, Rh factor.
The expert answers. Hunter, Having Rh negative blood means that a protein, the D antigen, is not present on the surface of the red blood cells. This condition occurs in about fifteen percent of Caucasians of European ancestry, five percent of African-Americans, and about one percent of Asians. 
If you're Rh negative and your baby is Rh positive, however, your body might produce proteins called Rh antibodies after exposure to the baby's red blood cells. The antibodies produced aren't a problem during the first pregnancy. The Rh factor test is done during pregnancy to identify a woman's Rh factor. In some cases, the baby's father might need an Rh factor test, too. During pregnancy, problems can occur if you're Rh negative and the baby you're carrying is Rh positive.
Your rhesus factor is fixed by your genes. If you're rhesus positive (RhD positive), it means that a protein (D antigen) is found on the surface of your red blood cells. If you do not have the D antigen, you will be rhesus negative (RhD negative). Most people are rhesus positive (NHS BT 2014) . But it can cause problems if you become pregnant again with another rhesus-positive baby. The antibodies that your body made in your first pregnancy can quickly multiply, cross the placenta and attack the blood cells of your baby.
Definition. Rhesus (Rh) factor is an inherited protein found on the surface of red blood cells. If your blood has the protein, you're Rh positive. If your blood lacks the protein, you're Rh negative. Rh positive is the most common blood type. Having an Rh negative blood type is not an illness and usually does not affect your health. However, it can affect your pregnancy. Your pregnancy needs special care if you're Rh negative and your baby's father is Rh positive.
The noun RHESUS FACTOR has 1 sense: 1. a blood group antigen possessed by Rh-positive people; if an Rh-negative person receives a blood transfusion from an Rh-positive person it can result in hemolysis and anemia. Familiarity information: RHESUS FACTOR used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. • RHESUS FACTOR (noun).
Rh is short for Rhesus factor. Rhesus factor is a type of antigen present on the surface of red blood cells. If you have have this particular antigen, you are Rh positive. If you don’t, you’re Rh negative. The Rh factor is important in determining blood type for transfusions. Normally Your immune system protects against potentially harmful substances (antigens).
Being Rh-negative means you don't have a certain protein (D antigen or the Rh factor) on the surface of your red blood cells. If you do have it, you're Rh-positive. So the terms Rh-negative and Rh-positive are really just terms that further define what type of blood a person has, beyond the general blood type categories of A, B, AB, and O.
You learn what letter your blood type is (A, B, AB, and O). You also learn what your Rhesus, or RH, factor is. Your blood is either RH+, meaning the blood has the RH factor, or RH-, meaning the RH factor is not in your blood. The c, e, and d genes are negative RH genes; meaning there is no RH factor in the blood. Research shows only the “D” gene causes sensitivity issues, so it’s the D gene that is of concern during your pregnancy. That’s why some care providers call the RH factor RH (D) positive or RH (D) negative.