Evans is a variant spelling of Evan. The name Evan is an Anglicized form of Iefan, which is a Welsh form of John which. It also stems from the Scottish Eoghan. The origin of Eoghan is unclear and disputed. It is thought to be composed of two old celtic elements meaning yew and born.
The name Evans is of Welsh origin. The meaning of Evans is G-d is gracious. It is also of Scottish origin, where its meaning is born of the yew tree, youth and Hebrew origin, where its meaning is stone, rock. The name Evan is an Anglicized form of Iefan, which is a Welsh form of John which. It also stems from the Scottish Eoghan. The origin of Eoghan is unclear and disputed. It is thought to be composed of two old celtic elements meaning yew and born.
Evans is a family name of Welsh, and possibly Cornish, origin. Within Wales it is the fifth most common surname and is the tenth most common in England. Within the United States, it is ranked as the 48th-most common surname. Evans is of Welsh origin. In its anglicised form the name means son of Evan. Regarding its Welsh roots, it is a derivative of the name Ifan, a cognate of John. In the Welsh language, the f produces the v sound; Ifan (Ivan) became Evan
Evans in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Evans surname forum. Look for unknown cousins or relatives with whom you may have lost touch. 'A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. 
Origin of Evans, Meaning of Evans. Origin: Several Welsh surnames begin with the letters B or P; Bevan, Beynon, Bowen, Powell, Pugh, Prytherch, Prys. This is a consequence of the Welsh 'ap' (son of) merging into the following (christian) name and developing ito the surname.
Evans /evans/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Hebrew, Welsh and Scottish origin, and the meaning of the name Evans is God is gracious; born of yew; youth. Evans is an alternate spelling of Evan (Hebrew, Welsh, Scottish): Welsh form of Iefan. Evans is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#48 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Evans for boys.
Suggested Readings for the name Evans. 1  American Family History: Fox, Ellicott, Evans by Charles Worthington Evans. 2  Anthony Evans of Colonial Southside Virginia: Lines of Banks, Blackwell, Bugg, Burnett, Davis, Evans, Fox, Ingram, Matthew, Smith, Walker: A Sourcebook for Related Materials by June Banks Evans. 
EVANS Surname Meaning & Origin: Evans is a patronymic surname meaning son of Evan.. The given name Evan derives from the Welsh name Ifan, a cognate of John, meaning gracious gift of Jehovah.. Within the United Kingdom, Evans is the 8th most common surname, being most common in the city of Swansea, Wales. 
The name Evans is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Evans is: God is good. English Meaning: The name Evans is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Evans is: Son of Evan. Evan is the Welsh form of the Hebrew John, meaning God has been gracious, or God has shown favor. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Evans is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Evans is: King Henry the Sixth, Part III' Sir Hugh Mortimer, uncle to the Duke of York. 'The Merry Wives of Windsor' Sir Hugh Evans, a Welsh parson. 
The surname Evans emerges in the early part of the 16th Century (see below), and in the modern idiom takes the forms: Evans, Evens, Evins, Evance, Ifans, Ivings and Heavans. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of John Yevans, which was dated 1533, in the Records of Monmathshire, Wales, during the reign of King Henry V111, known as Bluff King Hal, 1509 - 1547.