Monounsaturated fats are found in natural foods such as red meat, whole milk products, nuts and high fat fruits such as olives and avocados. Olive oil is about 75% monounsaturated fat. The high oleic variety sunflower oil contains as much as 85% monounsaturated fat. In biochemistry and nutrition, monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs, or more plainly monounsaturated fats) are fatty acids that have one double bond in the fatty acid chain with all of the remainder carbon atoms being single-bonded.
1 Eat foods high in unsaturated fats like fatty fish (salmon, mackerel, tuna) instead of meats high in saturated fat. 2  Incorporate foods high in polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats like avocados, nuts, and olive oil into your salads instead of using products high in saturated fats like mayonnaise based dressings. 1
Monounsaturated fats are found in natural foods such as red meat, whole milk products, nuts and high fat fruits such as olives and avocados. Olive oil is about 75% monounsaturated fat. Canola oil and Cashews are both high monounsaturated fat. Other sources include macadamia nut oil, grapeseed oil, groundnut oil (peanut oil), safflower oil, almond oil, sunflower oil, and avocado oil.
Tips for replacing saturated fats with unsaturated fats. 1  Use oils containing monounsaturated fat like olive oil, canola oil, peanut oil, and sesame oil, instead of oils high in saturated fat like coconut oil and palm oil. 1 Incorporate foods high in polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats like avocados, nuts, and olive oil into your salads instead of using products high in saturated fats like mayonnaise based dressings.
Avocados. Avocados are high in monounsaturated fat, and can be a real asset to a healthy diet. You can use it in place of mayonnaise on sandwiches which not only makes a healthier meal, but it makes for a lower fat meal as well. You can also use them on salads, in pasta, or on crackers as a snack. Peanuts and almonds among other kinds of nuts such as macadamias are high in monounsaturated fats, just like peanut butter. They're also a lot easier to eat when on the run, so they make a perfect snack in between meals.
1 Overall the highest intake of fat should be from the monounsaturated type (12 – 20 percent of total calories). 2  Use oils containing monounsaturated fat like olive oil, canola oil, peanut oil, and sesame oil, instead of oils high in saturated fat like coconut oil and palm oil. 1 Incorporate foods high in polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats like avocados, nuts, and olive oil into your salads instead of using products high in saturated fats like mayonnaise based dressings.
Tuna. One of the more inexpensive and readily available foods high in polyunsaturated fats is tuna. In one serving of tuna you have 179 calories, 39g of protein, 433mg of omega-3s, 13.9mg of omega-6s. It is low in saturated fat, and high in vitamin B12, selenium and phosphorus. 4 Foods that Contain Polyunsaturated Fat. All foods with fats in them contain varying amounts of polyunsaturated, monounsaturated and saturated fats. Some of the more beneficial types of fats are Polyunsaturated Fats (PUFAs).
Foods generally contain a mixture of fats, but selecting foods that are rich in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats (including omega-3 fatty acids) instead of trans and saturated fats helps lower your risk of many diseases. “Good” fats lower “bad” cholesterol in the blood, decreasing risk of heart attack. 
Five Foods that Contain Monounsaturated Fat. Not only does monounsaturated fat help to lower your bad cholesterol and your risk of heart disease in addition to stroke, but it also typically contains high levels of vitamin E, which is a very important antioxidant. Peanuts and almonds among other kinds of nuts such as macadamias are high in monounsaturated fats, just like peanut butter. They're also a lot easier to eat when on the run, so they make a perfect snack in between meals.