Hello, Tasia. I'll try to explain how a potato can be used to generate electricity. The potato itself has a mixture of starches and salts and some water. A salt, like table salt, in water releases ions. Ions are atoms that have an electrical charge. Table salt releases two electrically charged ions-a sodium ion with a positive charge, and a chlorine ion with a negative charge. To make a battery with a potato, you need to put two different metals into the potato...the metals can be zinc and tin, or copper and steel, or other choices. The point is-the two metals have to be different metals. You might use a penny (made of copper) and a nickel (made of...ummm...nickel)
The chemical reactions that take place between two dissimilar metals and the juices in the potato create a small amount of voltage that can power a very small electrical device [source: MadSci ]. Follow the instructions below to make a potato-powered light bulb. Materials: 1  A large potato. What you need to do: 1  Cut the potato in half, then cut a small slit into each half, large enough to slide a penny inside. 2  Wrap some copper wire around each penny a few times. 3  Use a different piece of wire for each penny. 4  Stick the pennies in the slits you cut into the potato halves.
By connecting multiple potato batteries you can make enough electricity to light-up a super bright light emitting diode (Included in the kit). Make electricity science kit contains all material that you need in order to successfully experiment making electricity by a chemical reaction. After all a fresh potato has a lot of juice that may serve our purpose as electrolyte. Problem: Can Potato be used to generate electricity? Hypothesis: Potato juice contains many water soluble chemicals that may cause a chemical reaction with one or both of our electrodes.
To create a potato battery, insert two different metals, such as an iron nail and a copper nail, into the potato, then connect the two nails with copper or aluminum wire to … a low-voltage bulb or voltmeter or similar device. By themselves they cannot produce electricity. However, they can be made to with a little modification. Two different metals, usually zinc and copper, can be inserted into o … pposite ends of the potato.
By themselves they cannot produce electricity. However, they can be made to with a little modification. Two different metals, usually zinc and copper, can be inserted into o … pposite ends of the potato. 
Make a Battery from Potato Introduction: Batteries generate electricity through a chemical reaction between two different electrodes and one electrolyte. Use of Copper and Zinc electrodes and Sulfuric acid as electrolyte is a proven method for this process. After all a fresh potato has a lot of juice that may serve our purpose as electrolyte. Problem: Can Potato be used to generate electricity? Hypothesis: Potato juice contains many water soluble chemicals that may cause a chemical reaction with one or both of our electrodes.
A: Batteries generate electricity because of a chemical reaction between the electrodes and the electrolyte. In your potato battery, the electrodes are zinc and copper rods. The electrolyte is phosphoric acid, which is found naturally in potatoes. 
Just to makes things clear, potatoes in general do not generate and do not store electricity. What potatoes do have that can help transfer energy is its soluble chemical property which may cause a chemical reaction between specific materials and then work as an electrochemical cell. Potatoes have stored chemical energy which in return can be converted to electrical energy that can power a small light bulb or run a clock. Potatoes are composed of starches, salt and water.