To become a hematologist then you have to go through the extensive education requirements that are needed. You will need four years of undergraduate studies, 4 years in medical school, 1 year internship program, 3 years residency training in internal medicine and an extra 2 to 4 years fellowship. Well… that is lots of years! This is a difficult field and one should be patient and willing to learn for a long time.
It often takes more than 10 years to complete the educational requirements needed to become a hematologist, including medical school, postgraduate training, board certification and specialized study in the field of hematology. 
Hematologists need four years of undergraduate studies, four years of medical school, one year internship, three years residency training in internal medicine and oncology and a further two to four years fellowship training in hematology/oncology. Hematologist Salary. The average median hematologist salary in the United States is about $266,000 per year or about $128 per hour. The top 10th percentile of hematologists earn a salary of $412,000 or more per year which is about $198 or more per hour.
Medical school will last for four years. After medical school, you will generally do a one-year internship followed by 3 years of residency training. The most common residency programs for potential hematologists is residency training in internal medicine and pediatrics. Hematologist Salary. The average median hematologist salary in the United States is about $266,000 per year or about $128 per hour. The top 10th percentile of hematologists earn a salary of $412,000 or more per year which is about $198 or more per hour.
A hematologist is a physician who is trained first to be a general medical doctor and then receives education for the specialization of hematology to prevent, diagnose, treat and investigate malignant and non-malignant blood diseases, such as cancers, vascular disorders or bleeding disorders. Medical School. It's recommended that would-be hematologists take biology, mathematics, English, chemistry and physics courses in high school, as well as part of their four-year undergraduate program to earn a bachelor's degree.
How to Become a Hematologist. Hematology is a sub-specialty of internal medicine that focuses on studying blood, organs that form blood, and blood conditions and diseases. Hematologists are medical doctors that focus on the prevention, cause, diagnosis, and treatment of blood conditions. A career as a hematologist is an excellent choice for individuals with a strong interest in providing medical care to patients with a variety of blood conditions. Hematologists must have a solid knowledge of many different conditions and diseases of the blood.
To become a hematologist, you must complete undergraduate education, medical school, and residency training. Prospective hematologists must receive a satisfactory score on the Medical College Admission Test to be admitted into medical school. A career as a hematologist is an excellent choice for individuals with a strong interest in providing medical care to patients with a variety of blood conditions. Hematologists must have a solid knowledge of many different conditions and diseases of the blood.
Residency. The residency consists of three years of clinical training, after completing medical school. This involves a track such as internal medicine, pathology or pediatrics, and is a precursor to any specific hematology/oncology study. During the residency, a physician learns how to administer patient care, but basic research is usually not part of the training. Medical School. It's recommended that would-be hematologists take biology, mathematics, English, chemistry and physics courses in high school, as well as part of their four-year undergraduate program to earn a bachelor's degree.
Education and Training. To become a board-certified hematologist, several requirements must be met: 1  Four years of premedical education in a college or university. 2  Four years of medical school resulting in an MD (Doctor of Medicine degree). 1 Four years of premedical education in a college or university. 2  Four years of medical school resulting in an MD (Doctor of Medicine degree). 3  Three years in a medical residency, typically in internal medicine or pediatrics, although other general residency programs may be used as well.
Verdict about hematologist salary. A hematologist salary is a very attractive one and one of the highest in the healthcare industry. It is very common for those with several years of experience to be earning a salary in excess of $650,000 per year. It is also common to see entry level salaries of about $200,000. Hematologist Salary. The average median hematologist salary in the United States is about $266,000 per year or about $128 per hour. The top 10th percentile of hematologists earn a salary of $412,000 or more per year which is about $198 or more per hour.