Connective tissue (blue) is seen supporting the epithelium (purple). Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water
Cartilage and Bone. Fluid connective tissue types, of which there are only two, are important in transport and body defense. Most connective tissues are variants of the second group, connective tissue proper where cells are interspersed among protein fibers in a fluid-filled matrix. Extracellular spaces in connective tissues are therefore more abundant and contain vessels. In connective tissues, the extracellular space is termed the extracellular matrix because products of specialized cells accumulate here.
Supportive connective tissues include cartilage and bone, more durable connective tissue types due to the semisolid or solid ground substance that accumulates in the matrix. Since the matrix of supportive connective tissues is either a semisolid or solid, cells of these tissues occupy small spaces or lacunae. Extracellular spaces in connective tissues are therefore more abundant and contain vessels. In connective tissues, the extracellular space is termed the extracellular matrix because products of specialized cells accumulate here.
a) Areolar (Loose) Connective Tissue (Slide #31). Areolar connective tissue is the most widespread connective tissue of the body. It is used to attach the skin to the underlying tissue. It also fills the spaces between various organs and thus holds them in place as well as cushions and protects them. It also surrounds and supports the blood vessels. It is also called fibrous or collagenous connective tissue because of the abundance of collagen (collagenous) fibres. Little intercellular substance is present. Furthermore, in this tissue type, the fibres are organized in a regular, parallel pattern (Figure 12).
Cartilage and bone form the skeletal framework of the body while blood is the vascular (transport) tissue of animals. I. Connective tissue proper a) Areolar (Loose) Connective Tissue (Slide #31) Areolar connective tissue is the most widespread connective tissue of the body. It is used to attach the skin to the underlying tissue. It also fills the spaces between various organs and thus holds them in place as well as cushions and protects them. It also surrounds and supports the blood vessels. It is also called fibrous or collagenous connective tissue because of the abundance of collagen (collagenous) fibres. Little intercellular substance is present. Furthermore, in this tissue type, the fibres are organized in a regular, parallel pattern (Figure 12).
Its densely packed collagen fibers have great tensile strength. 2)Specialized connective tissues a) Blood functions in transport. Its extracellular matrix is blood plasma, which transports dissolved nutrients, hormones, and carbon dioxide in the form of bicarbonate. The main cellular component is red blood cells. In vertebrates, the most common type of connective tissue is loose connective tissue. It holds organs in place and attaches epithelial tissue to other underlying tissues.
Answers. Best Answer: No, because one of the specialized connective tissue which is the blood don't have any fibers that present on it and the blood is compose of red blood cell. 1 or 2 fibers are present in any connective tissues but not all 3. In vertebrates, the most common type of connective tissue is loose connective tissue. It holds organs in place and attaches epithelial tissue to other underlying tissues.
As a result of this basic topology, other tissues are either supported upon connective tissue (epithelial surfaces), invaginated into connective tissue (glandular epithelium), or embedded within the connective tissue (blood vessels, muscles, and nerves). More at Biochemistry website. Ground substance is the background material within which all other connective tissue elements are embedded. In ordinary connective tissue, the ground substance consists mainly of water whose major role is to provide a route for communication and transport (by diffusion) between tissues.