The trachea (windpipe) is an important part of the body’s airway system. When air enters through the nose or mouth, it travels through the larynx (an organ that aids in breathing and sound production, also called the voice box), and down the windpipe. Since cases of bacterial tracheitis often follow an upper respiratory infection, initial symptoms such as cough, runny nose, or a low-grade fever may appear. After two to five days, symptoms of infection and airway obstruction may develop. These symptoms may include: 1  deep, severe cough. 2  difficulty breathing. 3  high fever.
Colds, which are caused by viruses, are the most common cause of laryngitis. Other viral causes include measles. Although rare, bacterial infections, such as diphtheria, can also cause laryngitis. Certain activities may strain the vocal cords to cause inflammation and lead to laryngitis. Examples of these types of activities include yelling at a sporting event or concert and working as a professional singer. Silvers points out that all causes of laryngitis cause hoarseness, but not all hoarseness is laryngitis.
Tracheitis is an inflammation of the trachea. Although the trachea is usually considered part of the lower respiratory tract, in ICD-10 tracheitis is classified under acute upper respiratory infections.
In relapsing polychondritis, cartilage becomes inflamed, causing redness, swelling, irritation, discomfort and pain in the affected areas. The inflammation of this disease may cause your windpipe, or trachea, to narrow, resulting in hoarseness, shortness of breath and wheezing. In addition, relapsing polychrondritis can cause complications in the heart, lungs, blood vessels, kidneys and arthritis affecting both small and large joints. Relapsing polychondritis is a rare disease that causes inflammation of cartilage throughout the body, especially in the ears, nose, eyes and throat. Symptoms of this disease come and go. The severity of symptoms, and how often they appear, varies quite a bit from person to person
Bacterial tracheitis [edit]. Bacterial tracheitis is a bacterial infection of the trachea and is capable of producing airway obstruction. One of the most common causes is Staphylococcus aureus and often follows a recent viral upper respiratory infection. Bacterial tracheitis is a rare complication of influenza infection. Although the trachea is usually considered part of the lower respiratory tract, in ICD-10 tracheitis is classified under acute upper respiratory infections.
Answer: Relapsing polychondritis is a rare disease that causes inflammation of cartilage throughout the body, especially in the ears, nose, eyes and throat. Symptoms of this disease come and go. The severity of symptoms, and how often they appear, varies quite a bit from person to person.
Inflammation in the lining of the bronchial tubes can cause bronchitis. The bronchial tubes are the airways that make the connection between the trachea, which is also known as the windpipe, and the lungs. The lining of the bronchial tubes acts as a protection and a covering for the respiratory system. 
Posted by Dr. Chris. Tweet. Tracheitis is the inflammation of the windpipe (trachea). Most cases of tracheitis are due to a bacterial infection, however, a number of other factors, both infectious and non-infectious, may also cause inflammation of the trachea. Pertussis is caused by the bacteria Bordetella pertussis. Viral infections like croup, which is caused by a number of viral species particularly the parainfluenza species, may cause inflammation of the larynx and trachea (laryngotracheitis) or larynx, trachea and bronchi (laryngotracheobronchitis).
View full size image. Laryngitis is inflammation (-itis) of the larynx (-laryn). The larynx is also known as the voice box because it contains the vocal cords, which are necessary for speech. Located in the throat above the trachea, or windpipe, the vocal cords open and close to create sound. Certain activities may strain the vocal cords to cause inflammation and lead to laryngitis. Examples of these types of activities include yelling at a sporting event or concert and working as a professional singer. Silvers points out that all causes of laryngitis cause hoarseness, but not all hoarseness is