Tuberculosis (TB). A disease caused by a specific type of bacteria that spreads from one person to another through the air. Tuberculosis can affect many parts of the body, but most often affects the lungs. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Cancer Institute).
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria that are spread through the air from person to person. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal. People infected with TB bacteria who are not sick may still need treatment to prevent TB disease from developing in the future. Latent TB infection and TB disease. The bacteria that cause TB is spread through the air from person to person. The TB bacteria are put into the air when a person with TB disease coughs, sneezes, speaks, or sings. People nearby may breathe in these bacteria and become infected. There are two types of TB conditions: latent TB infection and TB diseas
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs, but TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal. TB is spread through the air from one person to another. The TB bacteria are put into the air when a person with TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes, speaks, or sings. People nearby may breathe in these bacteria and become infected.
1 TB is an airborne pathogen, meaning that the bacteria that cause TB can spread through the air from person to person. 2  People with compromised immune systems are most at risk of developing active TB and dying from the disease; people with HIV are 26-31 times more likely to develop TB. 1 TB is among the top 3 causes of death for women aged 15 to 44. 2  Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affect the lungs, although it can also affect other organs such as the kidneys and heart.
Tuberculosis, MTB, or TB (short for tubercle bacillus), in the past also called phthisis, phthisis pulmonalis, or consumption, is a widespread, infectious disease caused by various strains of mycobacteria, usually Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis Treatment. Mycobacterium tuberculosis is the bacteria that causes tuberculosis (TB) has been present in the human population since antiquity-fragments of the spinal column from Egyptian mummies from 2400 BCE show definite signs of tuberculosis. The term “phthisis”, consumption, appears first in Greek literature. 
Causes of tuberculosis. Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by a type of bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The condition is spread when a person with an active TB infection in their lungs coughs or sneezes and someone else inhales the expelled droplets, which contain TB bacteria. 
Bacterium. Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria, the cause of TB. Credit: NIAID. Tuberculosis is caused by the infectious agent known as Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). This rod-shaped bacterium, also called Koch's bacillus, was discovered by Dr. Robert Koch in 1882.
A: Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affect the lungs. Tuberculosis is curable and preventable. TB is spread from person to person through the air. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. 