It is commonly called the spine, or simply backbone. The articulating vertebrae are grouped into their regions; there are seven cervical vertebrae of the neck (C1 to C7); twelve thoracic vertebrae of the thorax (T1 to T12); and five lumbar vertebrae of the lower back above the pelvis (L1 to L5). Vertebrae are defined by the regions of the vertebral column that they occur in. Cervical vertebrae are those in the neck area. With the exception of the two sloth genera (Choloepus and Bradypus) and the manatee genus, (Trichechus), all mammals have seven cervical vertebrae.
There are different types of spinal fractures. Doctors classify fractures of the thoracic and lumbar spine based upon the specific pattern of the fracture and whether there is a spinal cord injury. Classifying the fracture pattern will help your doctor determine the proper treatment. A fracture of the thoracic or lumbar spine causes moderate to severe back pain that is worsened with movement. If the spinal cord is involved, the patient may experience bowel/bladder dysfunction along with numbness, tingling, or weakness in the limbs.
Cervical. The first seven vertebrae, all in the neck. These are smaller and lightly built. Thoracic. Twelve vertebrae, each articulating with the twelve pairs of ribs. Lumbar. The lower five vertebrae, between the ribs and the sacrum. These have the largest vertebral bodies. Each of the three segments of the spine has a curve. The cervical spine and the lumbar curve both are convex anteriorly, while the thoracic spine curves the opposite way, convex posteriorly. Each vertebra is shaped a bit like a wedge to support these curves, especially noticeable with the five lumbar vertebrae
Your spine is made of 33 bones called vertebrae that provide the main support for your body, allowing you to stand upright, bend, and twist. In the middle of each vertebra is a hollow space called the spinal canal, which provides a protective space for the spinal cord (Fig. 1). spinal instability: abnormal movement between two vertebrae that can cause pain or damage the spinal cord and nerves. vertebral compression fracture (VCF): a break in the vertebral body of the spine causing it to collapse and produce a wedge-shaped deformity.
Your spine is made up of three segments. When viewed from the side, these segments form three natural curves. The c-shaped curves of the neck (cervical spine) and lower back (lumbar spine) are called lordosis. The reverse c-shaped curve of the chest (thoracic spine) is called kyphosis. These curves are important to balance and they help us to stand upright. Abnormal curvatures of the spine are also referred to as spinal deformity. These types of conditions include kyphosis of the thoracic spine (hunchback) and lordosis of the lumbar spine (swayback).
Vertebral column of a goat. The vertebral column, also known as the backbone or spine, is a bony skeletal structure found in vertebrates. It is formed from individual bones called vertebrae (singular: vertebra), which houses the spinal canal, a cavity that encloses and protects the spinal cord. Vertebrae are defined by the regions of the vertebral column that they occur in. Cervical vertebrae are those in the neck area. With the exception of the two sloth genera (Choloepus and Bradypus) and the manatee genus, (Trichechus), all mammals have seven cervical vertebrae.
Spinal fractures occur when the bones in your spine, called vertebrae, break and collapse. They can happen due to trauma or injury, such as experiencing a bad fall or car accident. 
When the vertebrae (spinal bones) in these two areas of the spine curve to the side, it upsets the normal appearance and condition of the spine and its muscles. Depending on the case, scoliosis curves can occur in a variety of areas and degrees. 
Spine surgery is rarely an initial treatment for back pain, however, there are a few emergencies that may require surgical treatment. In the vast majority of patients, spine surgery is only considered after a long course of conservative therapy. 
The vertebral bodies of the lower back are the largest of the spine because they bear the majority of the body's weight. The paired facet joints on the back of the vertebral segments are aligned so that they allow flexion/extension but not a lot of rotation. Most causes of back pain originate in the lumbar spine. The cervical spine has seven vertebral bodies (segments). The top two segments are unique: 1  The first cervical segment (called the atlas) is a ring that does not have a vertebral body. 2  It is attached to the second vertebral body (the axis), which acts as a post that the first vertebral ring rotates around.