The origin of the term Jayhawker is uncertain. The term was adopted as a nickname by a group of emigrants traveling to California in 1849. The origin of the term may go back as far as the Revolutionary War, when it was reportedly used to describe a group associated with American patriot John Jay. In the version promoted by KU, the jayhawk is said to be a combination of two birds, the blue jay, a noisy, quarrelsome thing known to rob other nests, and the sparrow hawk, a stealthy hunter.. Historic descriptions of the ornithological origin of the jayhawker' term have varied.
Jayhawker Colonel James Montgomery was portrayed as a racist, vengeful, and larcenous commander of a black regiment in the 1989 film Glory, where he is referred to as a real Jayhawker from Kansas.. In the version promoted by KU, the jayhawk is said to be a combination of two birds, the blue jay, a noisy, quarrelsome thing known to rob other nests, and the sparrow hawk, a stealthy hunter.. Historic descriptions of the ornithological origin of the jayhawker' term have varied.
(Variants/Other Names: See History below). Hunter FR.71A/J-735, of the Chilean Air Force and based at Group 8, Cerro Moreno, Antofagosto, Chile. Thanks to Major Jaime Pinto. History: The Hunter was the most successful of the British postwar fighters, and is remembered as a delightful, capable airplane in every respect. The prototype was first flown on 20 July 1951, and the single-seat Hunter F1 entered service with the Royal Air Force in July 1954. 
Migrant hawker. Aeshna mixta. The migrant hawker is a small hawker dragonfly that spends long periods patrolling a sheltered hunting territory in the air, often in small parties. If you are lucky, you may see one perched on a bush or fence when you can admire its subtle colours and markings
Definition of HAWK. 1. : any of numerous diurnal birds of prey belonging to a suborder (Falcones of the order Falconiformes) and including all the smaller members of this group; especially: accipiter. 2. : a small board or metal sheet with a handle on the underside used to hold mortar. 3. 
When it comes to picking a dream plane, my vote goes to the British-built classic, the Hawker Hunter jet fighter. When it comes to the sheer pleasure of flying, it's hard to beat the Hunter. N289XF is a former Royal Navy Hunter T.8 owned by George Lazik and Bob Guilford of Los Angeles. 
Early-bird hawkers. It is 2am and on the streets, there are people staggering home after a night out in clubs and bars, and others who have just ended a late shift at work or are gearing up for an early shift. 
In the 1950s and 1960s, hawker centres were considered to be a venue for the less affluent. They had a reputation for unhygienic food, partly due to the frequent appearance of stray domestic pets and pests. The hawker centres in Singapore are owned by three government bodies, namely the National Environment Agency (NEA) under the parent Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources (MEWR), Housing and Development Board (HDB) and JTC Corporation.
A hawker centre or cooked food centre (Chinese: 小贩中心 Xiǎofan xiǎofàn zhōngxīn or 熟食中心 shushi) shúshí zhōngxīn is-an open air Complex, In, Singapore Malaysia hong kong And The riau Islands, of indonesia housing many stalls that sell a variety of. inexpensive food The hawker centres in Singapore are owned by three government bodies, namely the National Environment Agency (NEA) under the parent Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources (MEWR), Housing and Development Board (HDB) and JTC Corporation.