Anyway, I can tell you that Licenciado is translated depending on the last name, that is, Licenciado en Educacion...Bachelor of Arts in Education...Licenciado en Literatura.... B.A. in Literature and so on.
According to the different countries they will be addressed as Licenciado (Lic.) or Doctor (Dr.). In English you will see that the name appears directly (Pedro G mez) or you will find Esq. after their name, like Pedro G mez, Esq.
Originally Posted by Petedude I've seen Univision translate the term bachelor's degree to licenciado, so I think it's reasonable to assume that to be the best translation. There may be some differences in the named programs overseas, though.
'Licenciado en Contabilidad' is 'License(A degree) in the field of Accounting' and license means having a degree in that field, and you will be qualified to work on it. 'Licenciado en Derecho' is 'License of a lawyer, having a degree in the field of Laws'.
(Licenciado) Academic titles used by lawyers and others with a Bachelor's Degree in many different fieldsEntered by: Michael Powers (PhD)Options:- Contribute to this entry-Include in personal glossary 22:20 Jun 10, 2006. GLOSSARY ENTRY (DERIVED FROM QUESTION BELOW). Spanish term or phrase: lic.
Report Abuse. Soy Licenciado en Contabilidad - I have a Bachelor's degree in Accounting Soy Licenciado en Derecho - I'm a Lawyer. A Bachelor's Degree es un Titulo título De; licenciatura A'master S, degree Un titulo Título. De(maestria): Maestría source s i did some research, some years ago to. translate my resume résumé
I was wondering how to translate Licenciado in English. I realize that the titles are different depending on the country, but would Esquire be the equivalent? For example, in a legal deposition, is it more appropriate to put Lcdo.
Many countries have degrees with this title, but they may represent different educational levels. In some universities it is a degree between that of bachelor and master or doctor; in some countries it is comparable to a doctorate of philosophy (PhD).
Soy Licenciado en Contabilidad - I have a Bachelor's degree in Accounting Soy Licenciado en Derecho - I'm a Lawyer.