From that time on people began to associate the apple with the fruit which Eve ate. But Eve did not eat the fruit of the apple tree—she ate the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Because Eve, and consequently Adam, disobeyed God’s Word, we are still suffering the consequences. 
Eve's eating the apple was a completely foreseeable event. The basis of the story was that prior to eating the fruit of the tree Eve and Adam had no understanding of good and evil, they couldn't tell right from wrong, couldn't understand the concept of a lie, had no understanding of doing the right thing. After learning of Adam's and Eve's eating of the apples of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil, God spoke to the couple of their punishment in Genesis 3:14-19.. He bega … n with the perpetrator. The sinister snake was to be the most cursed of wildlife.
Forbidden fruit is a phrase that originates from Genesis concerning Adam and Eve in Genesis 2:16–17. In the narrative, the fruit of good and evil was eaten by Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, which they had been commanded not to do by God. As a metaphor, the phrase typically refers to any indulgence or pleasure that is considered illegal or immoral.
Some time later, Eve took Adam to the tree in the middle of the garden and convinced him that the fruit was good to eat. When Adam and Eve were caught in their sin by God, Adam blamed Eve and Eve blamed the serpent. 
Tweet. The story of Adam and Eve's eating of the forbidden fruit, a major topic in this week's Torah portion, is perhaps the most famous of Biblical stories.Warned by God to refrain from eating fruit from the Tree of Knowledge that is in the midst of the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve ignore the divine command. 
Adam and Eve were sinless and perfect when God created them. But they still could choose to do what was wrong (just like you can choose to do what you aren't supposed to). When the devil tempted them to eat the forbidden fruit, they chose to do it. Although people talk about Adam and Eve eating an apple in the Garden of Eden, we don't know what the fruit looked like or how it tasted. All we know is that it was the one fruit in that big, beautiful garden that they weren't supposed to eat. Adam and Eve ate the fruit because the devil started them thinking about what it would be like. Then he lied about God's rule to make them think that God was keeping something good from them. Pretty soon they wanted to eat the fruit more than they wanted to obey God's rule
When Eve ate the apple in the Garden of Eden she had two different voices telling her what to do. God had said that Adam and Eve may eat any fruit from any of the trees in the Garden of Eden except for the tree that contains the knowledge of good and evil. Satan (disguised as a serpent) told Eve that she would not die from eating that fruit, that her eyes would be opened, knowing both good and evil. But at the time Eve made her decision, she did not have the knowledge of good and evil.
Once Adam and Eve had eaten the fruit (the apple) of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, they were they were now like gods (Genesis 3:22: And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us...), but had also become aware of their mortality. After learning of Adam's and Eve's eating of the apples of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil, God spoke to the couple of their punishment in Genesis 3:14-19.. He bega … n with the perpetrator. The sinister snake was to be the most cursed of wildlife.
Question: Was Adam and Eve's sin really about eating a piece of forbidden fruit?. Answer: The phrase “forbidden fruit” refers to the story of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. They were forbidden by God to eat the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil (Genesis 2:9; 3:2). The Bible says nothing about what type of fruit it was. Tradition has identified it as an apple, but it is impossible to know with certainty what kind of fruit it was. What is the origin of sin? Why was it wrong for Adam and Eve to know good and evil (Genesis 3:22)? Return to: Questions about Creation Return to: GotQuestions.org Home
Adam And Eve were told strictly not to eat from a tree which Satan had cursed but Satan convinced them to eat the fruit and thats when God punished them by taking them out of paradise into Earth and thats why earth was born aswell. This is what Muslims believe and I can not garauntee it is true in other religions…. 