Ecotourism is a form of tourism involving visiting fragile, pristine, and relatively undisturbed natural areas, intended as a low-impact and often small scale alternative to standard commercial (mass) tourism. According to them ecotourism must above all sensitize people to the beauty and the fragility of nature. They condemn some operators as greenwashing their operations: using the labels of green and eco-friendly”, while behaving in environmentally irresponsible ways.
The International Ecotourism Society (TIES) defines ecotourism as “responsible travel to natural areas that conserves the environment and improves the well-being of local people.” They have added “and involves interpretation and education” in 2015. In this situation education is for visitors as well as the staff. 
Ecotourism. Jungle hut in Ko Pha Ngan, Thailand. Ecotourism is a type of sustainable [sustainable: Doing something in a way that minimises damage to the environment and avoids using up natural resources, eg by using renewable resources. ] development. 
Most tourism in natural areas today is not ecotourism and is not, therefore, sustainable. Ecotourism is distinguished by its emphasis on conservation, education, traveler responsibility and active community participation. Specifically, ecotourism possesses the following characteristics: In fact, tourism is now the world's largest industry, with nature tourism the fastest growing segment. People want to experience nature and the world, but should try to do so in a way that doesn't impact the natural environment.
Ecotourism typically involves travel to destinations where flora, fauna, and cultural heritage are the primary attractions. Ecotourism is intended to offer tourists insight into the impact of human beings on the environment, and to foster a greater appreciation of our natural habitats. According to them ecotourism must above all sensitize people to the beauty and the fragility of nature. They condemn some operators as greenwashing their operations: using the labels of green and eco-friendly”, while behaving in environmentally irresponsible ways.
However, this same growth creates significant opportunities for both conservation and local communities. Ecotourism can provide much-needed revenues for the protection of national parks and other natural areas -- revenues that might not be available from other sources. Additionally, ecotourism can provide a viable economic development alternative for local communities with few other income-generating options. In fact, tourism is now the world's largest industry, with nature tourism the fastest growing segment. People want to experience nature and the world, but should try to do so in a way that doesn't impact the natural environment.
The Ecotourism Society defines it as responsible travel to natural areas which conserves the environment and improves the welfare of the local people. A walk through the rainforest is not eco-tourism unless that particular walk somehow benefits that environment and the people who live there. Ecotourism, eco travel, eco-lodges and just generally being eco have become popular tourism sales pitches.
Ecotourism in Costa Rica is one of the key activities of the tourism industry in the country. By the early 1990s, Costa Rica became known as the poster child of ecotourism. The country is among many developing nations that look to ecotourism as a way of cashing in on the growing demand for this popular trend of travel. 
The International Ecotourism Society defines Ecotourism as: responsible travel to natural areas that conserves the environment and improves the welfare of local people. 
Ecotourism encompasses a broad spectrum of environmentally responsible activities that increase visitor appreciation, develop a better understanding of the natural and cultural heritage, and are carefully managed to be ecologically, economically and socially sustainable. Ecotourism Australia defines ecotourism as ‘ecologically sustainable tourism with a primary focus on experiencing natural areas that fosters environmental and cultural understanding, appreciation and conservation’.