Click on a circle in the chart to view Kobus birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Co-bus. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Cobus Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Cobus has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Cobus to other names. Cobus is a diminutive (nickname) of Jacobus. Just for fun, see the name Cobus in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Cobus in Nautical Flags page.
Origin of the name Jacob: From the Ecclesiastic Late Latin Iacobus, which is from the Greek Iakōbos, a name derived from the Hebrew Yaakov. The name has its root in ya`aqob (seizing by the heel, supplanting). The name is borne in the Bible by the father of twelve sons who became the progenitors of the twelve tribes of Israel. Pet: Jake.
More or less introverted, at first Kobus and Josip seem gentle, quiet and reserved. They aren´t particularly expressive and possess excellent self-control. Thanks to the numerology, we propose you daily a horoscope personalized for your first name. Love, money, Shape: discover what waits for you for today. In Bonus every day find your daily lucky figure ..
It sometimes happens that two different first names have the same meaning. This has nothing surprising: both first names have the same figures of numerology. It is as in astrology: two persons belonging to the same sign present the same characteristic... Thanks to the numerology, we propose you daily a horoscope personalized for your first name. Love, money, Shape: discover what waits for you for today. In Bonus every day find your daily lucky figure ..
Click on a circle in the chart to view Kobus immigration records. You can find out when most of the Kobus families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
You can find out where the majority of the Kobus families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Cobus in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Cobus in Nautical Flags page.
It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ko-bus. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Kobus Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kobus has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kobus to other names. Kobus is a diminutive (nickname) of Jacobus. Just for fun, see the name Kobus in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kobus in Nautical Flags page.