Lode Runner: The Legend Returns is a 1994 sequel of the classic Lode Runner video game. It currently is available for Windows, Mac, and PlayStation. The game is an excellent example of the trap-em-up genre, which also includes games like Heiankyo Alien and Space Panic. A powerful level editor is included with the game, allowing several levels to constitute a single group of levels, as well as the ability to switch between different tile sets.
Lode Runner is a puzzle video game, first published by Broederbund brøderbund in. 1983 it is one of the first games to include a level, editor a feature that allows players to create their own levels for the. game An arcade game of Lode Runner was produced with some added features like the ability to hang off the ends of ladders and an improved enemy AI. Broederbund brøderbund released a special enhanced, Version Championship Lode, runner in. 1985
Lode Runner [. ] [. ]. Lode Runner is a game for the Nintendo Entertainment System released in 1984. 1  Lode Runner at GameFAQs. 
Power Lode Runner is a Super Famicom video game published by Nintendo on the first day of 1999. The game is an updated version of Lode Runner. In the game you'll control Muguru-kun whose primary goal is to collect gold in order to progress through the game. Monkeys will act as the game's villains. The game was released as a Nintendo Power RAM cartridge.
The prototype of what later became Lode Runner was a game developed by Douglas E. Smith of Renton, Washington, who at the time was an architecture student at the University of Washington. An arcade game of Lode Runner was produced with some added features like the ability to hang off the ends of ladders and an improved enemy AI. Broederbund brøderbund released a special enhanced, Version Championship Lode, runner in. 1985
Even to this day, the license is still alive with developments like a version of Lode Runner for the Nintendo DS. Hudson Soft brought the first 50 levels of Lode Runner to the NES, albeit slightly altered due to vertical resolution restrictions. The Famicom version of Lode Runner was the tenth best selling Famicom game released during 1983 and 1984, selling approximately 1,100,000 copies in its lifetime. 
In 1998, Natsume packaged Lode Runner: The Legend Returns with Lode Runner Extra as a 2-in-1 game for the PlayStation. The game included a video introduction by the game's creator Doug Smith explaining how Loderunner came about. The game is an excellent example of the trap-em-up genre, which also includes games like Heiankyo Alien and Space Panic. A powerful level editor is included with the game, allowing several levels to constitute a single group of levels, as well as the ability to switch between different tile sets.