Continental AG, commonly known as Continental, is a leading German automotive manufacturing company specialising in tires, brake systems, automotive safety, powertrain and chassis components, tachographs, and other parts for the automotive and transportation industries. In 2001, Continental acquired a controlling interest in Temic, DaimlerChrysler's automotive-electronics business, which is now part of Continental Automotive Systems. The company also purchased German automotive rubber and plastics company Phoenix AG in 2004, and the automotive electronics unit of Motorola in 2006.
In August 2008 and after a protracted standoff, Continental agreed to be taken over by the Schaeffler Group in a deal that valued the company at approximately €12 billion. Schaeffler in return agreed to limit its position to less than 50% for a period of four years and support Continental's ongoing strategy. In 2001, Continental acquired a controlling interest in Temic, DaimlerChrysler's automotive-electronics business, which is now part of Continental Automotive Systems. The company also purchased German automotive rubber and plastics company Phoenix AG in 2004, and the automotive electronics unit of Motorola in 2006.
The company was founded in 1915 and is based in Fort Mill, South Carolina. Continental Tire the Americas, LLC operates as a subsidiary of Continental AG. Continental Tire the Americas, LLC manufactures and distributes passenger, light truck, and commercial tires for original equipment and replacement tire markets.
Continental Tires. The future in motion. Continental Tire got its start in 1871 in Hanover, Germany, manufacturing and selling soft rubber products like hot water bottles, as well as bicycle and carriage tires. In 1904, the company patented the world's first car tire with a tread patter
A Continental tire is an upright, external, mounted spare tire behind an automobile 's trunk compartment. The term also describes a non-functional bulge that is stamped into the trunk lid or a cosmetic accessory to the rear of the car giving the impression of a spare tire mount. Continental kits were also made popular by the pimpmobile craze of the 1970s, not to mention the Pimp My Ride show. Continental tires are known as 'fifth wheels' in hip hop slang. Numerous compact sport utility vehicle (SUV) models of today have an exposed rear mounted spare tire.
Continental is based in Hanover, Lower Saxony, Germany. Continental is the world's fourth-largest tyre manufacturer. Continental was founded in 1871 as a rubber manufacturer, Continental-Caoutchouc und Gutta-Percha Compagnie. In 2001, Continental acquired a controlling interest in Temic, DaimlerChrysler's automotive-electronics business, which is now part of Continental Automotive Systems. The company also purchased German automotive rubber and plastics company Phoenix AG in 2004, and the automotive electronics unit of Motorola in 2006.
This innovative spirit lives on – in the late 1980s Continental created the first eco-friendly passenger tire, the ContiEcoContact, and in 2003, the ContiSportContact 2 Vmax, the first road tire approved for speeds of up to 224 MPH. Continental Tire got its start in 1871 in Hanover, Germany, manufacturing and selling soft rubber products like hot water bottles, as well as bicycle and carriage tires. In 1904, the company patented the world's first car tire with a tread pattern
Schaeffler AG is the controlling shareholder and currently owns 46% of Continental shares. In 2001, Continental acquired a controlling interest in Temic, DaimlerChrysler's automotive-electronics business, which is now part of Continental Automotive Systems. The company also purchased German automotive rubber and plastics company Phoenix AG in 2004, and the automotive electronics unit of Motorola in 2006.