C-reactive protein (CRP) is manufactured throughout the body, especially by immune cells, the liver, and by adipocytes (fat cells). 8 During the early phase of an inflammatory stimulus (such as infection or tissue injury) CRP levels rise dramatically. C-reactive protein, or CRP, has long been used as a marker of inflammation in the body. 1 High CRP levels are found in practically every known inflammatory state.
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a protein produced by the liver and found in the blood. C-reactive protein is not normally found in the blood of healthy people. It appears after an injury, infection, or inflammation and disappears when the injury heals or the infection or inflammation goes away. C-reactive protein. n. An antibody found in the blood in certain acute and chronic conditions including infections and cancers. It is a nonspecific indicator of inflammation and, therefore, not diagnostic of any one disease.
CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to factors released by macrophages and fat cells (adipocytes). It is a member of the pentraxin family of proteins. It is not related to C-peptide (insulin) or protein C (blood coagulation). C-reactive protein was the first pattern recognition receptor (PRR) to be identified. C-reactive protein (CRP) is an annular (ring-shaped), pentameric protein found in blood plasma, whose levels rise in response to inflammation. It is an acute-phase protein of hepatic origin that increases following interleukin-6 secretion by macrophages and T cells
C-reactive Protein (CRP) Overview. C-reactive protein (CRP) is a marker of inflammation in the body. Therefore, its level in the blood increases if there is any inflammation in the body. C-reactive protein, along with other markers of inflammation (erythrocyte sedimentation rate, or ESR) are also sometimes referred to as acute phase reactants. C-reactive protein is produced by the cells in the liver. 
C-reactive protein is produced by the liver. The level of CRP rises when there is inflammation throughout the body. This article discusses the blood test done to measure the amount of CRP in your blood. Levels of CRP may not be increased in people with rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. The reason for this is unknown. A more sensitive CRP test, called a high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) assay, is available to determine a person's risk for heart disease.
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a blood test marker for inflammation in the body. CRP is produced in the liver and its level is measured by testing the blood. 
A. A. A. C-reactive protein -- or CRP -- appears to be correlated to heart disease risk. Inflammation (swelling) of the arteries has been linked to an increased risk of heart disease, heart attack, stroke, and peripheral arterial disease. Doctors can test your blood for CRP. 
A high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) test, which is more sensitive than a standard test, also can be used to evaluate your risk of developing coronary artery disease, a condition in which the arteries of your heart are narrowed. Coronary artery disease can eventually lead to a heart attack. Definition. The level of C-reactive protein (CRP), which can be measured in your blood, increases when there's inflammation in your body. Your doctor may check your C-reactive protein level treatment for infections or for other medical conditions