The annual total list price cost to go to Capella University was $17,358 for the 2014/2015 academic year. The cost is the same for all students regardless of Minnesota residence status as there is no in-state discount. Students residing at home with parents providing food and housing can expect a total cost of $13,326. 
Capella Education Company owns Capella University, a university that operates exclusively online and offers Doctoral, Master’s, Post-baccalaureate Certificates and Bachelor’s degree programs in business, information technology, education, psychology, public health, public safety and human services. 1292 However, a Master’s of Education costs $20,210 at Capella University, while the online Master’s of Education at the University of Minnesota costs $31,235. 1293 1288 Senate HELP Committee staff analysis of fiscal year 2009 and 2010 Securities Exchange Commission annual proxy filings.
Founded in 1991 by Stephen Shank, former CEO of Tonka Corporation, Capella Education Company established Capella University in 1993 and went public in 2006 (NASDAQ: CPLA). J. Kevin Gilligan is the current CEO and chairman of the board of directors for Capella. 1292 However, a Master’s of Education costs $20,210 at Capella University, while the online Master’s of Education at the University of Minnesota costs $31,235. 1293 1288 Senate HELP Committee staff analysis of fiscal year 2009 and 2010 Securities Exchange Commission annual proxy filings.
Capella University. Capella University is a private institution, based in Minneapolis, Minnesota, that offers more than 1,000 online courses in business, psychology, social work, public health and safety, and a range of other subjects. Capella University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. Students at Capella are eligible for many forms of government-sponsored and private financial aid.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Capella University is an American for-profit institution of higher learning located in Minneapolis, Minnesota that delivers most of its education online. The school is owned by the publicly traded Capella Education Company. What is now Capella University was established as The Graduate School of America in 1993 by Dr. Harold Abel and Stephen Shank, former CEO of Tonka.
Capella University is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Capella University is a member of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (NCA). Since that time, it has been our mission to extend access to doctoral, master's and bachelor's degrees, and certificates for working adults who seek to maximize their personal and professional potential. Capella is owned by the publicly traded Capella Education Company.
According to U.S. News, during the fall of 2011, 32 percent of students in higher education (that’s 6.7 million students) took at least one course online. This number was up from approximately 6.1 million in 2010. Capella University has joined the surge in online education as a provider of quality courses. For students interested in this school, it is important to know at the outset that Capella University provides online education only. 
10 – Capella University. Capella University is a private, for-profit university that was founded in 1993. This school offers a number of excellent degrees to choose from, including options in business, human services, education, health care, technology, counseling, and more.