7. One of the most common criminal tattoos is the teardrop underneath the eye, think Lil Wayne. The most widely accepted meaning of the teardrop is the wearer has killed someone. The teardrop can also mean that the wearer is mourning the loss of a family member. A clear teardrop, like the one pictured, can mean that the wearer has committed an attempted murder, or alternatively, that a close friend or family member was killed and the wearer is seeking revenge.
A teardrop tattoo on face with an empty top and a full bottom symbolizes that the wearer has taken a revenge of the murder of a loved one. An empty teardrop tattoo on face also symbolizes a person's time served in prison, which is usually a year at least. An empty tear thus symbolizes that a loved one has been killed or the wearer has successfully shot someone else. A filled teardrop tattoo represents that a loved one has committed suicide or was killed by some cause other than a murder.
If the teardrop tattoo is just in the form of an outline, it implies that a friend of the wearer was killed. If a teardrop tattoo is coloured inside the outline it represents that the wearer's friend has been killed and the wearer has taken revenge of his friend's death. An empty tear thus symbolizes that a loved one has been killed or the wearer has successfully shot someone else. A filled teardrop tattoo represents that a loved one has committed suicide or was killed by some cause other than a murder.
The teardrop tattoo of yore is a prison mark meaning 'mother's tears' as in your brother dies while you are in prison, and you were not home to help mom out … .....The family may have fallen on hard times and needed you there to work and bring in some money, but you couldn't help cause you were in prison...... An empty tear thus symbolizes that a loved one has been killed or the wearer has successfully shot someone else. A filled teardrop tattoo represents that a loved one has committed suicide or was killed by some cause other than a murder.
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a symbolic tattoo of a tear that is placed underneath the eye. US rappers The Game and Lil Wayne have teardrop tattoos signifying the death of friends. Amy Winehouse had a teardrop tattooed to mark her distress at husband Blake Fielder-Civil remaining on remand at Pentonville Prison.
In prison terms there bitch.. The tear drop signifies that pain and humiliation one would feel after being turned out in prison. The tattoo is placed on the face to further humiliate the victim and mark them in a place where they could not cover the mark. I had a tear drop tattoo in blue under my right eye. I went to Cali and found a lot of teenagers had a teardrop tattoo. I remember one group of teens i saw, a few of the teens had the tattoo on the right side and a few on the left.
It has also been documented that the teardrop tattoo originated in the Chicano gangs of California. To these gangs, the tattoo signifies that an individual has killed another person, particularly while in prison. The tattoo can also mean that a family member, close friend or fellow gang member has died. An empty tear can also mean that a loved one has been murdered. Tattoos with an empty top and full bottom means the loved one has been murdered and the killer has been murdered by the tattoo wearer. As you can see, the teardrop tattoo isn't just another tattoo. It's meaning and history runs deep.
The tear drop tattoo was originally placed in prison to signify that the bearer was owned by a fellow prisoner. In prison terms their b*tch. The tear drop signifies that pain and humiliation one would feel after being turned out in prison. The tattoo is placed on the face to further humiliate the victim and mark them in a place where they could not cover the mark. 
If a teardrop tattoo is colored inside the outline it represents that the wearer's friend has been killed and the wearer has taken revenge of his friend's death. An empty tear thus symbolizes that a loved one has been killed or the wearer has successfully shot someone else. A filled teardrop tattoo represents that a loved one has committed suicide or was killed by some cause other than a murder.
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a symbolic tattoo that is placed underneath the eye. The tattoo can have several meanings, including signifying the number of years spent … in prison, the loss of a loved one or fellow gang member, or the fact that the wearer has killed someone. 3 people found this useful. In extreme cases a tear drop tattoo means that one has killed somebody but more often it represents a death of a very close individual. A tear on the lips probrably mean … s that someone died who the other was married to or in love with.