Defender Names. Defender baby names and what they mean, for defender, protector, protection, patroness, helmet, guardian. Here is the list of Defender names for boys. These girl names were at the apex of their popularity during 1900-1909 (usage of 0.1741%) and are almost as popular today (usage 0.1369%, ▼ 21.4%), but with names like Sandra, Barbara, Raina, Bridget and Sondra becoming somewhat outmoded.
Female Guardian Names, Defender Names Names that mean defender, guardian, bodyguard, protector. 1 BABESNE: Basque name meaning protection.. 2  BERGDIS: Old Norse name composed of the elements bjarga to rescue and dis dís, goddess, woman hence-rescue.. 3  GODDESS (Branislava: SERBIAN): бранислава feminine form Of Serbian, branislav meaning glorious.. 4  Protector also in use by The, Czechs slovaks And.  slovenians
Meaning: Protector. Find meaning of name. Find Surname (Family name) information. List of Names that means 'Protector'. Name. Origin. Meaning. Gender. Aarhant. Indian. 
Australia Baby Names. Mia – This name for a baby girl is of Latin origin and means “mine.”. Sienna – Sienna is a girl’s name that is growing popularity, but it’s origin and meaning are unknown. Cooper – A boy’s name meaning “barrel maker,” Cooper is of English origin. Lachlan – This boy’s name is of Scottish origin. 
24 Apr, 2013. The baby name Kendra is a girl name. The name Kendra comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kendra is: Blend of Ken: (royal obligation:clear water) and Sandra: (protector of man) or Andrea: (manly or masculine). The name Maridith comes from the Old Welsh origin. In English The meaning of the name Maridith is: Protector of the sea. Information: Name: MaridithName meaning: Protector of the sea.Gender: Female / Feminine / Girl / GirlsOrigin of name: Old Welsh.
24 Apr, 2013. The baby name Kindra is a girl name. The name Kindra comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kindra is: Blend of Ken: (royal obligation:clear water) and Sandra: (protector of man) or Andrea: (manly or masculine). The name Maridith comes from the Old Welsh origin. In English The meaning of the name Maridith is: Protector of the sea. Information: Name: MaridithName meaning: Protector of the sea.Gender: Female / Feminine / Girl / GirlsOrigin of name: Old Welsh.
Baby Names associated with Defender for Girls. These girl names were at the apex of their popularity during 1900-1909 (usage of 0.1741%) and are almost as popular today (usage 0.1369%, ▼ 21.4%), but with names like Sandra, Barbara, Raina, Bridget and Sondra becoming somewhat outmoded.
- AKIVA: Biblical female name meaning Protected. - ALEXA: Greek female name meaning Protector of Mankind. - CARDEA: Greek female name meaning Goddess of Protecting The Home. - CLARIMONDE: German female name meaning Brilliant Protector. - EDDY: English male name meaning Protector. - EDMUND: English male name meaning Protector. - ELDEN: English male name meaning Protector. - ELMO
Defender Names. Defender baby names and what they mean, for defender, guardian, protector, protection, guard, keeper, helmet, shield, protecting, vigilant, protect, savior. Here is the list of Defender names for girls. 