Callas articulates all of the trills, and she binds them into the line more expressively than anyone else; they are not an ornament but a form of intensification. Part of the wonder in this performance is the chiaroscuro through her tone—the other side of not singing full-out all the way through. It is very difficult to speak of the voice of Callas. Her voice was a very special instrument. Something happens sometimes with string instruments—violin, viola, cello—where the first moment you listen to the sound of this instrument, the first feeling is a bit strange sometimes.
1 Though called a lily, Calla lilies are not really lilies. 2  Calla is a flowering genus of twenty-eight species originating in Africa and growing mostly in marshy areas. 3  Calla lilies are grown from bulbous roots with finger-like growths. 4  These are known as tubers. Calla lilies average between 1 and 3 feet high and have a diameter of approximately 1 to 1 and 1/2 feet when fully grown. The Calla lily leaves are 1 1/2' long, rich green. The green leaves of the calla lily are shaped like arrowheads and have white or silver speckles.
You can grow calla lilies indoors in containers or outdoors in your garden. In areas with warmer climates (zones 9 to 11 in the United States) calla lilies grow perennially all year long. In cooler climates, you can grow calla lilies as annuals or dig them up in the fall to replant the following year. Dig the calla lilies out of the ground before the first frost if you live in a cool climate. Grab the plant close to ground and rock it back and forth until the soil around the base loosens, then carefully pull the tuber from the ground.
1. Start your calla lilies from tubers or rhizomes. Although they can be started from seed, it takes a long time and calla lily seeds do not have a high germination rate. Ad. 2. Plant the dormant tubers in 6 to 8-inch (15 to 20 cm) pots a few weeks before the last frost is expected in your area. Dig the calla lilies out of the ground before the first frost if you live in a cool climate. Grab the plant close to ground and rock it back and forth until the soil around the base loosens, then carefully pull the tuber from the ground.
Calla lilies are not true lilies! Despite what their name suggests, calla lilies are not true lilies. In fact, they are not a calla, either. The calla lily belongs to the genus Zantedeschia and is a member of the Araceae family, along with the caladium and philodendron. It is also known as the pig lily, trumpet lily and arum lily, and begins to blossom in late spring. This flower was first cataloged in the mid 1700s.
Maria Callas, Commendatore OMRI (Greek: μαρία κάλλας; December 2, 1923 – September 16, 1977), was an American-born Greek soprano and one of the most renowned and influential opera singers of the 20th century. Critics praised her bel canto technique, wide-ranging voice and dramatic interpretations. It is very difficult to speak of the voice of Callas. Her voice was a very special instrument. Something happens sometimes with string instruments—violin, viola, cello—where the first moment you listen to the sound of this instrument, the first feeling is a bit strange sometimes.
Although not considered true lilies, the calla lily is an extraordinary flower. This beautiful plant, available in a multitude of colors, grows from rhizomes and is ideal for use in beds and borders. You can also grow calla lilies in containers, either outdoors or in a sunny window as houseplants. Here are a few tips on growing calla lilies that will make them sparkle in your yard.
Calla Lilies are very popular for wedding bouquets as they signify magnificence and beauty. Calla lilies are one of the most beautiful flowers with a unique flower form. Calla lilies come in a wide array of colors viz., shades of green, pink, purple, yellow and orange. Callas are also known by such other common names viz., arum lily, trumpet lily, Pig lily, or Miniature Calla Lily. Calla lilies are native to Southern Africa. Calla lilies average between 1 and 3 feet high and have a diameter of approximately 1 to 1 and 1/2 feet when fully grown. The Calla lily leaves are 1 1/2' long, rich green. The green leaves of the calla lily are shaped like arrowheads and have white or silver speckles.
Start your dormant tubers in 16-inch (40 cm) pots or larger, if you want to grow the flowers in containers. Although the calla lily's root system does not spread out much, using a large pot helps the soil to stay moist and allows enough space for the tubers to spread and make additional plants. Dig the calla lilies out of the ground before the first frost if you live in a cool climate. Grab the plant close to ground and rock it back and forth until the soil around the base loosens, then carefully pull the tuber from the ground.
Pacific Callas is a wholesale supplier of premium quality calla lily bulbs and calla lily cut flowers, direct from the world's best calla lily growers on the West Coast of the United States. We offer a variety of calla lily bulbs that are specifically suited to the needs of your growing or retail purposes. 