Average Physical Therapist salaries for job postings in North Carolina are 5% lower than average Physical Therapist salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Physical Therapist salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Physical Therapist in Charlotte, NC. Work cooperatively with physicians, case managers, and adjustors. May supervise physical therapy assistants, aides, and athletic trainers. Requires a master's degree and is certified as a physical therapist. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.
Salary by State. Your salary can also vary by your state. The highest-paying states for physical therapy aides in May 2012 were Alaska and Vermont, which paid workers mean salaries of $35,200 and $33,380 respectively, according to the BLS. Salary by Employer. Your place of work can affect the salary that you make. Many aides are employed directly by physical therapists, while others work in hospitals. As of May 2012, approximately 26,130 aides worked at health practitioners' offices, while 8,340 were employed at hospitals, reported the BLS.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Physical Therapist in Charlotte, NC that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Physical Therapist in Charlotte are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Work cooperatively with physicians, case managers, and adjustors. May supervise physical therapy assistants, aides, and athletic trainers. Requires a master's degree and is certified as a physical therapist. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.
Physical Therapist Charlotte, NC Salary. Physical Therapist Charlotte, NC average salary is $70,269, median salary is $65,631 with a salary range from $21,267 to $1,188,668. Physical Therapist Charlotte, NC salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position
A Physical Therapist (PT) in Charlotte, North Carolina earns an average salary of $64,025 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. A skill in Acute Care is associated with high pay for this job. $52,072 - $80,739. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
(United States). The average wage for a Physical Therapist Assistant is $24.54 per hour. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Home Health/Home Care and Long Term Care. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. 
Provides therapy services defined in treatment plans. Work cooperatively with physicians, case managers, and adjustors. May supervise physical therapy assistants, aides, and athletic trainers. Requires a master's degree and is certified as a physical therapist. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goal
Average Physical Therapist salaries for job postings in Raleigh, NC are 4% lower than average Physical Therapist salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The average PTA salary in North Carolina is $56,110, below you can see the average PTA salary for major cities in North Carolina. We have everything you need to become a licensed PTA in your state. A few of the helpful things that you'll find here are information resources by state such as tools and info on PTA Schools, PTA license requirements, PTA Jobs, PTA salary data for states & major cities.