Therefore, the simple answer to the how early can you take a pregnancy test question is between 7 and 10 days after ovulation ...much better than waiting a full two weeks! More Pregnancy Test Articles. 1  Pregnancy Test Strips. 2  Pregnancy Midstream Tests.
If you wait two days (4 days before your period), your hCG level should be around 10 mIU. Depending on the sensitivity of the pregnancy test you are using, you might be able to get a very light positive result at this point. It’s not likely, but it is possible.
You should wait and see if your next period is late, if it's even a day late you can do a home pregnancy test with good accuracy! ~pawsalmighty     You should wait … about 7-10 days just to be sure the sperm did not attach with the egg at any point in time.
Most doctors recommend that you wait until the first day of your missed period before taking a home pregnancy test. A missed period is usually one of the first signs of pregnancy. This is usually around two weeks after conception. However, some tests are more sensitive than others and can be taken earlier. Concentrations of hCG are reported in milliInternational Units (mIU) or amounts equal to 1/1000th of an IU per milliliter.
A pregnancy test with a sensitivity of 20 IU/L is more sensitive than one with 50 IU/L. A blood test administered by your doctor is more sensitive than the early home tests and can be taken between 7 and 12 days after you conceive.
Some very sensitive tests can detect hCG a few days before your period is due, a less sensitive test may not be accurate until a few days after your period is late. To prevent false negatives and the need to retake the test, follow the directions on the HPT you are going to use. Wait until you have missed a cycle.
A blood test can also detect hCG. Blood tests are more sensitive than urine tests and can detect pregnancy from about six to eight days after ovulation. However you will not be offered a blood test for pregnancy until after your period is due, and even then only if there is a medical need.
Most home pregnancy tests will give accurate results if you test at the time your period would normally be due, about two weeks after you ovulate. A test may be negative for several reasons. You may not be pregnant. Or, you may have ovulated later than you thought, and not be as far along in pregnancy as you thought.