Since home inspectors will not need to make any fixes to the home, the work is often well refined. You show up, audit, and the home inspection process is usually completed in a single call with no loose ends to tie up and without an intricate follow up. How To Become A Home Inspector.
Home inspection companies have to be prepared to provide fast customer service. The condition in an offer to purchase a home is often for only two or three days. Good telephone service is important to most inspectors. When not inspecting, inspectors deal with administrative duties, pay bills and all the responsibilities of running a business.
Since home inspectors will not need to make any fixes to the home, the work is often well refined. You show up, audit, and the home inspection process is usually completed in a single call with no loose ends to tie up and without an intricate follow up.
While the market determines what a home inspector can charge for an inspection, ASHI's 2005 Home Inspection Business Operations Study shows that the average cost of a home inspection is $318— and inspectors can expect to earn gross revenues of more then $75,000.
A home inspection is a documented, professional opinion of a home-based on a visual evaluation and operational testing of the home’s systems and components to determine their current condition.
There are other training schools in the inspection industry that can provide you the knowledge needed to perform a home inspection, but they will only provide training in mold, radon, commercial property inspections, and building codes for an additional fee. Only ICA will provide you with a full training portfolio.
To become a licensed home inspector in Alabama, you have to pass a state exam, and you have to be a member of an Alabama-approved organization.
1 Becoming a home inspector requires finding your niche in this area that will really make you stand out from the others. 2  Some home inspection training schools will have a marketing section of their program, which is a helpful tool to getting started in this industry.