Music Theory: Keys, Scales and Triads. The table below summarises the basic ideas of music theory that relate to keys, key signatures, scales and triads. The key signature, major triad, minor triad and degrees of the scale are listed for all of the common major keys.
To help understand and remember key signatures, a chart called the circle of fifths can be used. On the outside are the major key names, separated by fifths. On the inside are the corresponding minor key names. In the middle is the number and position of the sharps or flats.
In music, the key identifies the tonal center or home base of a song. This tonal center or home base is a note that the whole song revolves around.
Similarly, a piece of music can be in a minor key and revolve around a natural minor scale. For example, a song in the ‘key of D minor’ uses the notes of the D minor scale  D, E, F, G, A, Bb, and C. Any major scale or natural minor scale can serve as a key for a piece of music.
Often, new music students will say there are 12 keys of music, but what they are referring to is the twelve keys they can identify on a keyboard or piano. So it would make sense to believe there are only 12 key signatures (also known as keys).
Every note in the song wants to gravitate towards the home base note. For example, if a song is in the key of C, then every note in the song gravitates towards C. If a song is in the key of F, then every note would gravitate towards F. There are 12 possible keys any particular song can be played in. This is because of the 12 notes on the piano keyboard, A, A#/Bb, B, C, C#/Db, D, D#/Eb, E, F, F#/Gb, G, and G#/Ab. A song can be played so that any one of these twelve notes will be the tonal center or home base. There are several ways to tell what key a particular song is in.
Key signatures can provide a clue as to what key a piece of music is written in. Key signatures tell you what sharps or flats will appear in a song. Key signatures appear directly after the clef signs. The number of sharps or flats in the key signature can give you a clue as to what key a song is in.