A Certificate of Disposition is a document that states that bail was exonerated in a criminal case. If you posted a bond in a criminal case, and the criminal case is now over you will need a Certificate of Disposition that states the bail was exonerated in order to obtain your collateral back. The bail bondsman one will require one with the court seal. Certificate of Disposition for Bail Exoneration Purposes. Upon receipt of your Certificate of Disposition, we upload our our online case management system and mail out the original by first class mail. If you need it sooner, you can pay $20.00 for overnight shipping.
Appearance at Court Required: You must appear at court to request a deferred disposition if: 1  You are a juvenile (under the age of 17). 2  As a juvenile, you must appear in person at the date and time assigned by the court prior to requesting a deferred disposition. 3  Keep your address updated with the Court because notices will be mailed. You must appear at court to request a deferred disposition if: 1  You are a juvenile (under the age of 17). 2  You are charged with a code violation (violation other than traffic, parking, red light camera, “no insurance”, no driver license or driving with license invalid, seat belt).
Having said this: Just call the court and ask where to get a disposition, they can give you the details. I didn't hear about that document neither during my DUI case and nobody, court or DUI lawyer, gave it to me. I thought disposition = sentencing paper but I found out 5 years later that it is different. The case was expunged 3 years ago. We want to get it reopned and obtain the disposition letter. Can you pease paste the format of it from the disposition letter you obtained. Really appreciate it.. thanksto wantgceb2: You can only get the court disposition from the courthouse.
If you have ever been arrested or convicted of an offense, you must get a Certificate of Disposition for every arrest, from the Court Clerk in the county where you were arrested. In NYC, this is obtained at the NYC Transit Adjudication Bureau, 29 Gallatin Place, 3 rd Floor, Brooklyn, NY 11201, (347) 643-5805. A $10 fee, government ID and Social Security Card will be required.
to Vilniete: It's easy to get a disposition and it shouldn't take long. Go to the court where you where sentenced, there you can get an official copy with a seal. Small fee for each copy. Best to call in first and check to which office to go and bring your other court documents for your case with you, just in case. The case was expunged 3 years ago. We want to get it reopned and obtain the disposition letter. Can you pease paste the format of it from the disposition letter you obtained. Really appreciate it.. thanksto wantgceb2: You can only get the court disposition from the courthouse.
to Sean1: Call the court where you appeared for your DUI and ask them that you need a copy of the court deposition with the court's seal and also ask for copies of all related documents that they have for your case (just in case). The case was expunged 3 years ago. We want to get it reopned and obtain the disposition letter. Can you pease paste the format of it from the disposition letter you obtained. Really appreciate it.. thanksto wantgceb2: You can only get the court disposition from the courthouse.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You would get that from the Clerk's Office at the court which handled your case. You can either request this in person OR in writing (calling or emailing is not allowed). It will cost you to get the disposition letter. There's usually a fee for the document itself as well as a research fee. Spend the extra couple of bucks for the CERTIFIED copy, because that is most likely what employers will want. Combined, it should cost about $25 - $30. My advice would be to go in person. 
You should make sure you have:  the docket number (if you know it)  date of arrest  photo ID  $10 (exact change only) The Certificate will tell you what offense(s) you were charged with, what offense(s) you were convicted of, what date you were convicted, and the sentence imposed. In NYC, this is obtained at the NYC Transit Adjudication Bureau, 29 Gallatin Place, 3 rd Floor, Brooklyn, NY 11201, (347) 643-5805. A $10 fee, government ID and Social Security Card will be required.
To request a Certificate of Disposition bring the following items to the central clerk's office in the county in which your case was filed: docket number, or defendant's full name and date of birth, or date of arrest; picture I.D.; $10.00 (exact change only). It is best to pay bail at the correctional facility where the person is being held; however, bail may be paid at any of the following correctional facilities. For further information on inmates, bail, visiting hours, and travel directions call (718) 546-0700. 1  Bronx House of Detention. 2  653 River Avenue, Bronx, NY 10451.
Deferred Disposition is a suspended sentence. On your plea of guilty or no contest, the court will defer a finding of guilt, assess Court costs, and order that you post a bond and comply with certain conditions. By Mail – If you opt to request Deferred Disposition by mail, your submission must be postmarked on or before your scheduled court date to avoid a Failure to Appear Warrant. When mailing in your request please include the following: 1  Signed and completed Deferred Disposition Application [Download PDF].