1 Bake for 10 minutes, then flip and butter the other side of the chimichangas. 2  Bake for another 8 minutes, or until golden brown and crisp. 3  While the chimichangas bake, combine the milk and flour in a microwave safe bowl. 1 Bake for another 8 minutes, or until golden brown and crisp. 2  While the chimichangas bake, combine the milk and flour in a microwave safe bowl. 3  Stir until smooth. 4  Add 1 tablespoon of butter and microwave for 2 minutes. 5  Stir well and add the remaining 1½ cups of cheese.
Fold in the ends and roll up. Put the chimichangas seam-side down on the baking sheet; brush with the butter-oil mixture. Bake 8 to 10 minutes per side, brushing again after you flip. Top with the sauce, more cheese, lettuce and tomato. Serve with rice and the remaining beans. Top with 1 cup chicken mixture and 1/4 cup cheese. 
Beef Chimichangas filled with a ground beef/refried bean mixture seasoned with chili powder, cumin, and oregano, rolled up and fried until crispy, and covered with cheese and jalapeno tomato sauce tastes so much better than restaurant chimichangas. 
Cook. A fast and healthier way to serve Chimichangas than the traditional deep fried. These are very good, and you may dress them up to you own preference. I like to serve with green chile sauce sometimes instead of the picante sauce. 
Heat oil to 375 to 400 degrees F. Fry the chimichangas (1 or 2 at a time), approximately 3 minutes or until golden brown. Remove from oil, drain, and place on serving plates. Top with Cheddar cheese, lettuce, green onions, and any optional ingredients that you prefer. Makes 6 chimichangas. A chimichanga is a burrito prepared with a choice of meat, vegetables, and spices. deep-fried to a golden perfection, and served on a bed or lettuce with cheese and mild sauce. The residents of Tucson take their chimis very seriously and prefer large, overstuffed versions.
Chimichanga (/tʃɪmiˈtʃaeŋɡə/ ; [tʃɪmiˈtʃæŋɡə]) tʃimiˈtʃaŋɡa is a-deep fried burrito that is popular In Southwestern.U. s cuisine and The mexican states Of sinaloa And. sonora Debate over the origins of the chimichanga is ongoing: The words chimi and changa come from two Mexican Spanish terms: chamuscado, (past tense of the verb chamuscar) that means burned, and changa, related to chinga, (chingá present tense of the vulgar verb), chingar a rude expression for the unexpected or a small. insult
you voted. Answer by CarolMowthorpe (49). Chimichangas, which are a popular Mexican dish, are essentially deep fried burritos. They consist of a flour tortilla, folded to form a rectangular pocket, and then filled with ground beef, rice, beans and cheese, although other ingredients may be used. The filled tortilla is then deep fried and served hot. 
The dish is typically prepared by filling a flour tortilla with a wide range of ingredients, most commonly rice, cheese, machaca, carne adobada, or shredded chicken, and folding it into a rectangular package. It is then deep-fried and can be accompanied with salsa, guacamole, sour cream, and/or cheese. Debate over the origins of the chimichanga is ongoing: The words chimi and changa come from two Mexican Spanish terms: chamuscado, (past tense of the verb chamuscar) that means burned, and changa, related to chinga, (chingá present tense of the vulgar verb), chingar a rude expression for the unexpected or a small. insult
Woody Johnson, founder of Macayo's Mexican Kitchen, claims he invented the chimichanga in 1946 when he put some burritos into a deep fryer as an experiment at his original restaurant Woody's El Nido. Debate over the origins of the chimichanga is ongoing: The words chimi and changa come from two Mexican Spanish terms: chamuscado, (past tense of the verb chamuscar) that means burned, and changa, related to chinga, (chingá present tense of the vulgar verb), chingar a rude expression for the unexpected or a small. insult