Fukuyama type congenital muscular dystrophy a form of muscular dystrophy with muscle abnormalities resembling those of Duchenne's muscular dystrophy; characterized also by mental retardation with polymicrogyria and other cerebral abnormalities. Duchenne's muscular dystrophy (Duchenne type muscular dystrophy) The childhood type of muscular dystrophy. facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy muscular dystrophy affecting the face, shoulder, and upper arm muscles; called also Landouzy-Dejerine
Definition of MYOTONIC DYSTROPHY. : a muscular disorder that is characterized by dystrophic muscle weakness and myotonia affecting multiple bodily systems and that is caused by an abnormally high number of repeats of a codon in the genetic material. ADVERTISEMENT
Definition of DYSTROPHY. 1. : a condition produced by faulty nutrition. 2. : any myogenic atrophy; especially: muscular dystrophy. 
oculopharyngeal dystrophy, oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy a form with onset in adulthood, characterized by weakness of the external ocular and pharyngeal muscles that causes ptosis, ophthalmoplegia, and dysphagia. Duchenne's muscular dystrophy (Duchenne type muscular dystrophy) The childhood type of muscular dystrophy. facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy muscular dystrophy affecting the face, shoulder, and upper arm muscles; called also Landouzy-Dejerine
dystrophy, dystrophia. any of various diseases characterized by weakening or defective function of the process of nutrition, resulting in degeneration of the muscles. See also food and nutrition. — dystrophic, adj. poor or inadequate nutrition or growth. 
Definition. Muscular dystrophy is a group of diseases that cause progressive weakness and loss of muscle mass. In muscular dystrophy, abnormal genes (mutations) interfere with the production of proteins needed to form healthy muscle. There are many different kinds of muscular dystrophy
muscular dystrophy see muscular dystrophy. myotonic dystrophy a rare, slowly progressive, hereditary disease, marked by myotonia followed by muscular atrophy (especially of the face and neck), cataracts, hypogonadism, frontal balding, and cardiac disorders. Duchenne's muscular dystrophy (Duchenne type muscular dystrophy) The childhood type of muscular dystrophy. facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy muscular dystrophy affecting the face, shoulder, and upper arm muscles; called also Landouzy-Dejerin
Muscular dystrophy (MD) is a group of muscle diseases that weaken the musculoskeletal system and hamper locomotion. Muscular dystrophies are characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue. 
dystrophy, dystrophia. any of various diseases characterized by weakening or defective function of the process of nutrition, resulting in degeneration of the muscles. See also food and nutrition. — dystrophic, adj. Noun. 1. dystrophy-any of several hereditary diseases of the muscular system characterized by weakness and wasting of skeletal muscles. muscular dystrophy.
lattice dystrophy An autosomal dominant, hereditary disorder characterized by the appearance in the corneal stroma of fine branching filaments interlacing and overlapping at different levels, as well as white spots and stellate opacities. These filaments are deposits of amyloid. Duchenne's muscular dystrophy (Duchenne type muscular dystrophy) The childhood type of muscular dystrophy. facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy muscular dystrophy affecting the face, shoulder, and upper arm muscles; called also Landouzy-Dejerine