Growth. Magnolias have a very unusual root system in comparison with other trees and shrubs because their roots are mainly unbranched and ropelike. The way that the roots curl as they grow can make magnolia roots prone to girdling if the roots circle close to the tree’s trunk. Magnolia roots are also close to the soil surface, with the majority of them within the top foot of soil. The root system of the magnolia plant is wider spreading than most other trees as well. It extends from the trunk a distance that is equal to about four times the width of the canopy
Planting Requirements. Plant a star magnolia in moist but well-drained, loamy soil. While this tree requires a great deal of water to thrive, it cannot tolerate soaking in soil, as the roots can rot. These plants also require shelter from heavy winds, since a strong gale can damage the soft wood and developing buds. The star magnolia tree itself can grow up to 30 feet tall and presents foliage and flowers on several individual trunks that split off from the main trunk a few feet from the ground. The star magnolia is deciduous and loses its leaves in the winter after creating colorful fall foliage.
The common magnolia tree (Magnolia grandiflora), which is sometimes referred to as Southern magnolia, is hardy in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 7 through 9. Common magnolias are prized by home gardeners for their evergreen foliage and fragrant, showy blooms, but their roots are also distinctive. The way that the roots curl as they grow can make magnolia roots prone to girdling if the roots circle close to the tree’s trunk. Magnolia roots are also close to the soil surface, with the majority of them within the top foot of soil.
Star magnolia is an oval to rounded shrub or small tree that will grow15 to 20 feet in height with a spread of 10 to 15 feet. The habit is a very upright conical crown when young; crown spreads some with age. Leaves. Leaves are alternate, simple, obovate or elliptical, and 2 ½ to 4 inches with entire margins. 
The Star Magnolia (Stellata) is generally described as a perennial tree. This is not native to the U.S. (United States) and has its most active growth period in the spring. The Star Magnolia (Stellata) has green foliage and inconspicuous white flowers, with a moderate amount of conspicuous brown fruits or seeds. The Star Magnolia (Stellata) is easily found in nurseries, garden stores and other plant dealers and distributors. It can be propagated by bare root, container, cuttings, seed. It has a none ability to spread through seed production and the seedlings have medium vigor
Like others of its family, star magnolias feature sprawling, rope-like root systems and can experience more difficulty than other trees when transplanting from one part of the landscape to the other, once past a certain age. The best time to move a magnolia is when the trunk is less than 4 inches in diameter. Even with the reduced root size of a younger tree, cut a root ball as large as possible when moving, since this will soften the shock of transplanting. The star magnolia tree itself can grow up to 30 feet tall and presents foliage and flowers on several individual trunks that split off from the main trunk a few feet from the ground. The star magnolia is deciduous and loses its leaves in the winter after creating colorful fall foliage.
Leaves are not retained year to year. The Star Magnolia (Stellata) has a long life span relative to most other plant species and a moderate growth rate. At maturity, the typical Star Magnolia (Stellata) will reach up to 26 feet high, with a maximum height at 20 years of 20 feet. The Star Magnolia (Stellata) is easily found in nurseries, garden stores and other plant dealers and distributors. It can be propagated by bare root, container, cuttings, seed. It has a none ability to spread through seed production and the seedlings have medium vigor
Magnolia stellata, sometimes called the star magnolia, is a slow-growing shrub or small tree native to Japan. It bears large, showy white or pink flowers in early spring, before its leaves open. This species is closely related to the Kobushi magnolia (Magnolia kobus), and is treated by many botanists as a variety or even a cultivar of that.