Daily cost of an intensive care unit day: the contribution of mechanical ventilation. Dasta JF(1), McLaughlin TP, Mody SH, Piech CT. Author information: (1)The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. Comment in Crit Care Med. 
There are other ways to estimate home ventilator prevalence in the United States. Medicare claims data from 2010 indicates approximately 3,172 patients on home mechanical ventilation using an invasive interface, and 899 patients on home mechanical ventilation with a noninvasive interface. In some countries, if the patient requires ventilator support more than X hours per day, he is placed on a life-support ventilator. There seems to be no consensus on the number of hours per day that constitutes “life-support ventilation.” Some countries use 12 hours, some 14 hours, some more.
NEXT STEP. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. The average national cost to clean ducts & vents is $333, with most homeowners spending between $238 and $429. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor member
A contractor will charge $308 to install a 14-inch power ventilator which includes the labor and material; you can do it for more than half and pocket a 57 percent savings. For about $130 you can buy what you need: a power ventilator, an electrical box and cover, a short piece of three-wire BX or Romex cable, a package of wire nuts and a quart of roofing cement. An electrical circuit is needed to power the fan. If there isn't one already in the attic, call an electrician
In general, you should expect to spend around $300 to $400 on your dryer vent installation. The actual price could be more or less based on a number of factors. For example, if you are installing a vent that will involve running a large amount of duct work in the process, the cost will be higher than if you had less duct work required along with your installation.
$407.85. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Roof Vent! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Plumbing Vent Installation project. For a basic 1 line project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Roof Vent ranges between $311.76 - $407.85 per line. To estimate costs for your project:
Long-Term Ventilation need not be prohibitively expensive. The LTV 900 is an excellent ventilator, but might be more ventilator than your family member needs. If you want to stay in the LTV Family, the LTV 800 is a basic volume ventilator, which is all that most long-term vent pt's require. 
The average cost is between $110 to $120 per vent supplied and installed into existing windows inclusive of GST. For an average house with eight rooms, the total cost would be between $880 and $960. This cost is based on a home on reasonably level ground. There would be a small additional installation cost for homes requiring ladders and/or scaffolding.
Below is a breakdown of a heat recovery ventilator cost. Heat recovery ventilators can be sizeable units, but regardless of size their running costs are low. The bulk of a units size is the heat exchanger itself which actually requires no power due to using a heat exchanging plate system. 