The name Emilio is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Emilio is: Eager. American Meaning: The name Emilio is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Emilio is: Eager. Spanish Meaning: The name Emilio is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Emilio is: Flattering. Latin Meaning: The name Emilio is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Emilio is: derived from Roman clan name which may mean 'industrious. 
Emilio is a form of the name Emil. Emil is derived from the Roman family name Aemilius. The name Aemilius was in turn derived from the Latin word aemulus meaning rival. The name Emelina is a form of Emilio. 
Italian name. In Italian, the name Emilio means-form of emil. Other origins for the name Emilio include-Italian, Spanish, French.The name Emilio is most often used as a boy name or male name. Italian Name Meaning-form of emil. Origin-Italy. Alternate Origins-Spanish French. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Origin of the name Emilio: Derived from the Latin Aemilius, an old Roman family name probably derived from aemulus (rival, trying to equal or excel, emulating) There are some who thing Emilio is of Germanic origin and derive it from the element amal (work). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Emilio's language of origin is Latin. It is predominantly used in the Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish languages. Emilio is a form of Emil. Emilio is a popular baby boy name. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1900s. At the recent height of its usage in 2012, 0.058% of baby boys were given the name Emilio. It was #297 in rank then
The different meanings of the name Emilio are: The meaning of the name “Emilio” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. The meaning of Emilio has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Emilio are: 1  Latin meaning: Rival; emulating. 2  Italian meaning: Rival; emulating. 3  Portuguese
Emilio /emi-lio/ [4 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Latin derivation, and the name Emilio means rival; laborious; eager. Emilio is an alternate form of Emil (Latin): from the old Roman surname Aemilius. Empleo is a common surname. Emilio is a very popular first name for males (#490 out of 1220, Top 40%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#49159 out of 150436, Top 33%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Emilio for boys
Meaning of Emilio. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Emilio means-Flattering.. Other origins for the name Emilio include-Spanish, Italian, French.The name Emilio is most often used as a boy name or male name. Spanish Name Meaning-Flattering