Updated October, 2012Prickly pear cactus (Opuntia spp), called nopal in Spanish, is a plant native to Mexico and the American southwest that is now widely cultivated in many parts of the world, especially the Mediterranean regions.
In addition to its popular use for hangovers, prickly pear remedies have been used traditionally in Mexico for a wide variety of disorders. The heated cactus pads have served as poultices for rheumatism, and the fruit of the plant is consumed as treatment for diarrhea, asthma and gonorrhea.
Oppuntia engelmanni Cactaceae (Cactus Family). Prickly pear is a large, spiny cactus that bears numerous deep red, juicy-sweet fruits. Early historic observations and archeological data clearly indicate Native Americans relied on prickly pear for food, medicine, and as a source of needles, containers, and water.
Dry prairies, sandhills and rocks. The plant has numerous minutely barbed glochids (hairs) that are easily dislodged when the plant is touched and they then become stuck to the skin where they are difficult to see and remove. They can cause considerable discomfort.
Prickly pear gets its name from numerous sharp spines borne on the stems, and the seasonal fruits known as pears or tunas. The long, sharp spines (the prickly part of the name) are actually modified leaves that harden as they age.
Large stands of prickly pear are a signature component in many areas of the South Texas Plains landscape. Students of history have argued over the location of these stands, particularly when trying to locate route of Cabeza de Vaca's journey through Texas.
Texas prickly pear is common in the drier areas of South and Central Texas and Mexico and sparingly in the Trans-Pecos possibly into New Mexico, to an elevation of 4600 feet. It is a thicket-forming and heavy-bodied cactus with a definite cylindrical trunk, and may be erect to 3 1/2 feet, or prostrate.
However, if you carefully remove the spines and prickly tufts, both the fruit and pads, especially the young pads (nopalitos) are edible. Although 85-90% water by weight, prickly pear fruit is rich in Vitamin C and is a good source of carbohydrates.