Part of the Hardware glossary: A logical partition (LPAR) is the division of a computer's processor s, memory, and storage into multiple sets of resources so that each set of resources can be operated independently with its own operating system instance and application s. Each partition can communicate with the other partitions as if the other partition is in a separate machine. Logical partitioning was first studied by IBM in 1976 and later introduced by Amdahl and then IBM. Hitachi and Sun Microsystems also use forms of logical partitioning.
The IBM corporation invented LPAR in 1972 when it developed the concept of Hypervisors, which were virtual machines. The Start Interpretive Execution (SIE) instruction was deployed on the 3081 and was then used to help allocate system resources across LPARs in order to share physical computer resources. More recently, LPAR micro-partitioning allows unused CPU resources to be pooled in order to let the sub-divisions that have the greater workload to have access to a larger amount of computer resources when required.
Central Processing Units can either be dedicated to a single LPAR or shared, depending on the machine’s configuration. The Power Hypervisor manages one or more LPAR partitions on a mainframe or other computer and acts as the virtual switch for the sub-divisions that share resources. More recently, LPAR micro-partitioning allows unused CPU resources to be pooled in order to let the sub-divisions that have the greater workload to have access to a larger amount of computer resources when required.
LPAR (or PR/SM, which is the same thing in IBM terminology) is a logical partition of a machine. Each LPAR functions independently and can be IPLed (rebooted in PC terms) without affecting other LPARs on the machine. 
A logical partition, commonly called an LPAR, is a subset of computer's hardware resources, virtualized as a separate computer. In effect, a physical machine can be partitioned into multiple logical partitions, each hosting a separate operating system. IBM introduced the Start Interpretive Execution (SIE) instruction (designed specifically for the execution of virtual machines) as part of 370-XA architecture on the 3081, as well as VM/XA versions of VM to exploit it.
In 1990, IBM mainframe computers introduced the concept of a Systems Complex, commonly called a Sysplex, with MVS /ESA SPV4.1 in 1990. This allows authorized components in up to eight LPARs to communicate and cooperate with each other using the XCF protocol. Components of a Sysplex include: 
On IBM mainframes, LPARs are managed by the PR/SM facility. IBM mainframes operate exclusively in LPAR mode, even when there is only one partition on a machine. Multiple LPARs running z/OS can form a Sysplex or Parallel Sysplex, whether on one machine or spread across multiple machines. IBM introduced the Start Interpretive Execution (SIE) instruction (designed specifically for the execution of virtual machines) as part of 370-XA architecture on the 3081, as well as VM/XA versions of VM to exploit it.
Definition of:LPAR. (L ogical PAR tition) A logical segmentation of a mainframe's memory and other resources that allows it to run its own copy of the operating system and associated applications. LPARs are caused by special hardware circuits and allow multiple system images to run in one machine. IBM's PR/SM (prism), Hitachi's MLPF and Amdahl's MDF are examples of LPARs. MDF was the first to provide in hardware the equivalent of IBM's VM operating system, which supports multiple system images in software. Interestingly, an LPAR can host VM, which itself can host multiple operating systems.
LPAR. (L ogical PAR tition) A logical segmentation of a mainframe's memory and other resources that allows it to run its own copy of the operating system and associated applications. LPARs are caused by special hardware circuits and allow multiple system images to run in one machine. MDF was the first to provide in hardware the equivalent of IBM's VM operating system, which supports multiple system images in software. Interestingly, an LPAR can host VM, which itself can host multiple operating systems.