Dragonvale tips on making money fast. Money is essential in every game and Dragonvale is not an exemption. We all love making money to enjoy and reap all of its benefits. Let’s discover the ways on how to make a lot of money fast in Dragonvale. Dragonvale Money Making Tip 1: If you are just getting started with the game, you have to be wise and patient in spending your money and gems. Use your coins and gems only when necessary. There are a lot of things to achieve in playing Dragonvale. However, you probably do not want to take forever in accomplishing them. Read our Dragonvale tips on how to make upgrades in a short amount of time. Dragonvale Upgrade Tip 1: You can get faster upgrades by having more dragons and habitats.
Place sonic dragon level 10 on left side and storm dragon level 10 on right side in breeding cave. Must be done at 6:30-6:42 am eastern time, will get 48 hour time. How to breed a lava dragon. You have to breed a fire dragon with a earth dragon. Breed/Buy a Marsh dragon. How to get free gems. 1  Sign out of game center before entering Dragon Vale. 2  Click cancel when prompted and connect to game center to start a new game. 3  Then go back to game center, sign in, and click on your level once you go back to the game. 4  You should be supplied with a few more diamonds and coins.
1 Air Dragon breeding: Breeding an Air Dragon with an Air Dragon or a Fire Dragon with a Water Dragon will produce more Air Dragons. 2  Air Dragons sell for 375,000 and each breeding and incubation times is only two hours, so each cycle is just four hours from breeding to dragoncash. 1 Form a circle friends: Every 24 hours, you get three free gems for gifting to friends on your friend list. 2  In order to ensure that you get the same amount of gems that you give, form a gem circle of four people. 3  Gift your gems only to each other and every day each of you are guaranteed to receive three gems.
Answer from: Wizard Bill. There is a fast way to get coins. You need an lightning and a plant dragon. You breed them together to get a cactus (or ash). The cactus only takes 30 minutes to breed and incubate. Sell the egg. You will get 100,000 dragon cash. Answer from: Simple Truth. Fire dragon habitats get a crazy amount of money while you not in play. For instance, I have a juvenile (lv5) in a large fire habitat and I get around 10,000c every 5 or 10 min.
To get a rainbow dragon, breed an ice dragon and a blazing dragon!! (a blazing dragon is air and fire, and ice is water and cold). The levels do not matter. To get a mountain dragon, use cold (left) and plant (right). 1  Breeding Guide. 2  How to Get Free Gems. 3  How to Obtain the Rainbow Dragon. 4  How to Breed a Reindeer Dragon. How to get free gems. 1  Sign out of game center before entering Dragon Vale. 2  Click cancel when prompted and connect to game center to start a new game. 3  Then go back to game center, sign in, and click on your level once you go back to the game. 4  You should be supplied with a few more diamonds and coins.
By DoubleDizle on. 2 Comments. If you need some fast and easy money in DragonVale, then breeding is one of the best ways to get them. Certain dragons sell for a lot more cash than others, so you can make a lot of money if you know which dragons to breed. Most of the best selling dragons require higher levels, so I’ll show you some dragons in various different level requirements, and how much you can potentially earn per hour from them. Making Easy Coins at Lower Levels. There aren’t a whole lot of options at the very beginning of the game for making a ton of coins (for obvious reasons). Your best option at level one if you just want to make coins is to breed the Plant Dragon over and over which sells for $50, with a 14.4 second breeding time.
Well, In order to get gems you must do these things: 1  Earn gems on dragon track or the colliseum. 2  Get gems from friends. 3  You'll get 3 gems from your friend, 6 if they or you have the gifting tree. 4  So ask friends to add you on dragonvale so you can earn them! 5  Use gemstone dragons. 1
To get money quickly and efficiently at low levels before you have many dragons at high levels that give you heaps of money, try breeding a plant and lightning dragon together for a cactus dragon. It takes 30 minutes to create the egg and another 30 minutes for it to be ready to hatch. It sells for 100,000 dragon cash. If you were to do this for a whole day you'd get 2,400,000 dragon cash in 24 hrs. As you get higher there are probably better dragons to do this with, but this one gives a decent amount of money for a short period of time.