Important Steps to Take. If you are falsely accused of molestation or other inappropriate sexual behavior with a child, you should also: 1  gather and preserve any physical evidence in your possession that might relate to the alleged victim and your relationship with the victim (clothing, photos, videos, and objects). If you are accused of inappropriate sexual behavior with a child, you should not: 1  initiate conversation with the victim or the victim’s family, especially to convince them they are wrong. 2  have any contact with the victim.
2. Prepare for the costs of your defense. If you have been falsely accused of a serious crime, such as rape, sexual abuse, or domestic violence, there is a good chance you will face criminal charges with a high risk of conviction. Building a strong defense case will take time and money. While the best advice in your case will come from your competent criminal attorney, there are some things you can start right now to protect yourself after being falsely accused. 1. Realize the importance of false accusations. If you have been accused of a criminal offense, the consequences can be serious.
The more information you can give your attorney, the better equipped he or she will be to: 1  Deal with the accuser's threats - - If an accuser is threatening to falsely report you to the police, your attorney may be able to convince the accuser of the error of his ways. It happens. An innocent person's life is thrown into shambles because of a false accusation. A police officer shows up and starts asking you questions. He's saying someone accused you of rape, theft, fraud. You're innocent, but they don't believe you. You're being falsely accused.
The moment that you learn of accusations that you have had inappropriate contact with a child – even if you hear only rumors – you should contact an attorney for information and advice on what to do. If you are accused of inappropriate sexual behavior with a child, you should not: 1  initiate conversation with the victim or the victim’s family, especially to convince them they are wrong. 2  have any contact with the victim.
1 If you are being falsely accused of a crime you did not commit, do not fall into this trap and do not admit to anything you didn't do. 2  If you feel threatened by police or attorney questioning at any time, stop talking and request a criminal defense attorney. But even if you are not arrested, you should speak to a lawyer once you have found out that you have been accused of a crime. 1  A lawyer can help assess your case, e.g., the likelihood that the state has enough evidence to charge you.
It can cost you thousands of dollars in legal fees. If you've been falsely accused, you may have a claim for defamation. In a claim for defamation, be it libel or slander, you would have to show that a defendant's statement to a third party harmed your reputation and caused you damages. False accusations of serious crimes are often considered libel per se. It happens. An innocent person's life is thrown into shambles because of a false accusation. A police officer shows up and starts asking you questions. He's saying someone accused you of rape, theft, fraud. You're innocent, but they don't believe you. You're being falsely accused.
Being wrongfully accused is a situation that no one wants or expects. Any type of accusations can catch one off guard, which can then lead to mistakes that may be personally and financially devastating. It is important to take the right steps to guard against any type of loss. Take Immediate Action. 
If you've been falsely accused, an experienced criminal defense attorney may be able to help you protect your rights and assess your options. Related Resources: 1  Browse Criminal Defense Lawyers by Location (FindLaw's Lawyer Directory). 2  Pa. 3  Man Falsely Accused as Rapist Gets $85K (FindLaw's Injured). It happens. An innocent person's life is thrown into shambles because of a false accusation. A police officer shows up and starts asking you questions. He's saying someone accused you of rape, theft, fraud. You're innocent, but they don't believe you. You're being falsely accused.
Think about false identifications. False identifications occur when an eyewitness wrongly identifies a person as being the one that committed a crime. Eyewitness testimony can be incredibly persuasive to a judge or jury but DNA has proven time and again that their identifications and testimony are often inaccurate. But even if you are not arrested, you should speak to a lawyer once you have found out that you have been accused of a crime. 1  A lawyer can help assess your case, e.g., the likelihood that the state has enough evidence to charge you.