Most fetuses with trisomy are miscarried during the first trimester. Most of those who survive have Down syndrome, also known as trisomy 21 because it's caused by an extra chromosome 21. While all babies with Down syndrome have some degree of mental impairment, it's severe in only about 10 percent. Many people with Down syndrome have rich and fulfilling lives into adulthood. 
Affected people have two copies of chromosome 21 plus extra material from chromosome 21 attached to another chromosome, resulting in three copies of genetic material from chromosome 21. Affected individuals with this genetic change are said to have translocation Down syndrome. In a very small percentage of cases, Down syndrome results from an extra copy of chromosome 21 in only some of the body's cells. In these people, the condition is called mosaic Down syndrome. Two copies of chromosome 21, one copy inherited from each parent, form one of the pairs. Chromosome 21 is the smallest human chromosome, spanning about 48 million base pairs (the building blocks of DNA) and representing 1.5 to 2 percent of the total DNA in cells.
Klinefelter syndrome is a condition related to the X and Y chromosomes (the sex chromosomes). People typically have two sex chromosomes in each cell: females have two X chromosomes (46,XX), and males have one X and one Y chromosome (46,XY). Most often, Klinefelter syndrome results from the presence of one extra copy of the X chromosome in each cell (47,XXY). Some people with features of Klinefelter syndrome have the extra X chromosome in only some of their cells; in these individuals, the condition is described as mosaic Klinefelter syndrome (46,XY/47,XXY).
The most common chromosomal abnormality is Down syndrome (trisomy 21), which affects 1 in 800 babies. If your baby has Down syndrome, it means he has three copies of chromosome 21. While all babies with Down syndrome have some degree of mental retardation, in many cases, it’s not too severe. 
Regardless of the type of Down syndrome a person may have, all people with Down syndrome have an extra, critical portion of chromosome 21 present in all or some of their cells. This additional genetic material alters the course of development and causes the characteristics associated with Down syndrome. Mosaicism. Mosaicism (or mosaic Down syndrome) is diagnosed when there is a mixture of two types of cells, some containing the usual 46 chromosomes and some containing 47. Those cells with 47 chromosomes contain an extra chromosome 21.
Down syndrome (DS or DNS) or Down's syndrome, also known as trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21. It is typically associated with physical growth delays, characteristic facial features, and mild to moderate intellectual disability. The extra chromosome 21 material may also occur due to a Robertsonian translocation in 2–4% cases. In this situation, the long arm of chromosome 21 is attached to another chromosome, often chromosome 14. In a male affected with Down syndrome, it results in a karyotype of 46XY,t(14q21q).
Babies born with trisomy 21, or an extra chromosome 21, have a condition known as Down Syndrome. Although children with Down Syndrome do suffer form some level of mental retardation, the majority of them are high-functioning. Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Someone who has an extra chromosome has 47 total chromosomes instead of the typical 46, or 23 from each parent. This results in a condition known as trisomy. Trisomy is associated with mental retardation and often death, depending on which chromosome has malfunctioned