Early Life. Famed singer, songwriter and instrumentalist Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Named after the Prince Roger Trio, a jazz band his father performed with as a pianist, Prince was signed to Warner Brother Records as a teenager. The singer found international success with the release of his 1982 album, 1999, and went on to create the film and album Purple Rain (1984). By the time he released his 11th studio album, Batman, in 1989, Prince had become one of America's most commercially successful pop artists.
Mini Bio (1). Prince Rogers Nelson was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to Mattie Della (Shaw), a jazz singer, and John L. Nelson, a lyricist and pianist. His parents were both from African-American families from the U.S. south. They separated during his youth, which lead him to move back and forth. 
Prince's father was a pianist and songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. Prince was named after his father, whose stage name was Prince Rogers, and who performed with a jazz group called the Prince Rogers Trio. In a 1991 interview with A Current Affair, Prince's father said that I named my son Prince because I wanted him to do everything I wanted to do. In 1990, Prince went back on tour with a revamped band for his stripped down, back-to-basics Nude Tour. With the departures of Boni Boyer, Sheila E., the horns, and Cat, Prince brought in Rosie Gaines on keys, drummer Michael Bland, and dancing trio The Game Boyz (Tony M. , Kirky J., and Damon Dickson).
Soundtrack | Director | Actor. Prince Rogers Nelson was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to Mattie Della (Shaw), a jazz singer, and John L. Nelson, a lyricist and pianist. His parents were both from African-American families from the U.S. south. 
Biography by Contactmusic.com. Prince was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to John L. Nelson and Matti Shaw. His father was a songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. As a child, Prince was nicknamed Skippy, and he suffered from epilepsy. Personal Life: Prince has been romantically linked with a number of high-profile celebrities, including Carmen Electra, Sheena Easton, Stevie Nicks and Kim Basinger. Prince married his backing singer Mayte Garcia in 1996.
Prince Roger Nelson (born June 7, 1958), known by his mononym Prince, is an American singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, and actor, a major figure in popular music for over three decades. In 1990, Prince went back on tour with a revamped band for his stripped down, back-to-basics Nude Tour. With the departures of Boni Boyer, Sheila E., the horns, and Cat, Prince brought in Rosie Gaines on keys, drummer Michael Bland, and dancing trio The Game Boyz (Tony M. , Kirky J., and Damon Dickson).
Listeners. read more. Prince Rogers Nelson (born June 7, 1958), known from 1993 to 2000 as an unpronounceable symbol (or, informally, 'The Artist Formerly Known as Prince', 'Tafkap', 'The Artist', etc), is a popular American musician. 
Prince Rogers Nelson (born June 7, 1958) is a funk/rock/pop/R&B singer, songwriter, and actor. He goes by the name Prince but between 1993 and 2000 he went by an unpronounceable symbol and was referred to The Artist Formerly Known as Prince. During his career, he has produced ten platinum albums, had 40 top ten singles, and promoted singers such as Sheila E., Carmen Electra, The Time, and Vanity 6.
Prince was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the son of Mattie Della (Shaw) and John Lewis Nelson. His parents were both African-American and his family ancestry is centered in Louisiana, with all four of his grandparents hailing from the state. In 1990, Prince went back on tour with a revamped band for his stripped down, back-to-basics Nude Tour. With the departures of Boni Boyer, Sheila E., the horns, and Cat, Prince brought in Rosie Gaines on keys, drummer Michael Bland, and dancing trio The Game Boyz (Tony M. , Kirky J., and Damon Dickson).
Synopsis. Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He later changed his name four times. Prince's early music career saw the release of Prince (1979), Dirty Mind (1980) and Controversy (1981)—all of which created controversy due to their fusion of religious and sexual themes. The singer found international success with the release of his 1982 album, 1999, and went on to create the film and album Purple Rain (1984). By the time he released his 11th studio album, Batman, in 1989, Prince had become one of America's most commercially successful pop artists.