Zygomycota includes black bread mold and molds, such as those of the genus Glomus, that form important symbiotic relationships with plants. Most are soil-living saprobes that feed on dead animal or plant remains. 1 Fungi: Types of Fungi-Types of Fungi The 100,000 identified species of organisms commonly classed together as fungi are ...
Ascomycota includes yeasts, the powdery mildews, the black and blue-green molds, edible types such as the morel and the truffle, and species that cause such diseases of plants as Dutch elm disease, chestnut blight, apple scab, and ergot. There are over 50,000 species, about 25,000 of which occur only in lichens. 1 Fungi: Types of Fungi-Types of Fungi The 100,000 identified species of organisms commonly classed together as fungi are ...
Types of Fungi. The 100,000 identified species of organisms commonly classed together as fungi are customarily divided into four phyla, or divisions: Zygomycota, Ascomycota, Basidiomycota, and Deuteromycota. 1 Fungi: Types of Fungi-Types of Fungi The 100,000 identified species of organisms commonly classed together as fungi are ...
The Three Phyla of Fungi There are three phyla but actually four groups of fungi:phylum Zygomycota, the zygomycetes; phylum Ascomy-cota, the ascomycetes; phylum Basidiomycota, the basidiomycetes, and the imperfect fungi (figure 36.7 andtable 36.1). 
The three major groups of fungi are: 1  multicellular filamentous moulds. 2  macroscopic filamentous fungi that form large fruiting bodies. 3  Sometimes the group is referred to as ‘mushrooms’, but the mushroom is just the part of the fungus we see above ground which is also known as the fruiting body. Types of fungi. Fungi are subdivided on the basis of their life cycles, the presence or structure of their fruiting body and the arrangement of and type of spores (reproductive or distributional cells) they produce.
The hyphae form a branching network called a mycelium. However some fungi are made of a single cell eg yeast.   3. The hyphae have a cell wall (like plant cells) made of a material called chitin (unlike plant  cells).   4. The hyphae are often multinucleate. This means that the cytoplasm is not divided up into separate cells, but contins many individual nuclei. 
Fungi are a group of living organisms, consisting from unicellular yeasts, and multicellular molds and mushrooms. A word fungus, plural fungi, is adopted from Latin fungus (mushroom), from Greek sphongos (sponge), and refers to a physical appearance of fungi. Common genera are: 1  Penicillium was originally used to produce antibiotic penicillin; also used in production of cheese. 2  Aspergillus commonly contaminates starchy foods, corn (maize) and peanuts; certain species secrete mycotoxins that can cause miscarriages, inborn defects, liver cancer.
EDIT: The folks that are listing yeast, molds and mushrooms are not correct. They are just taking the 3 examples of fungi on the wickipedia page. Classification for fungi changes frequently and varies by taxonomist. The 3 I gave you are acceptable by most, but the author of the wickipedia page does not agree. 