Top of Page. Gout is a rheumatic disease resulting from deposition of uric acid crystals (monosodium urate) in tissues and fluids within the body. This process is caused by an overproduction or under excretion of uric acid. Certain common medications, alcohol, and dietary foods are known to be contributory factors. 1 Gout is caused by an uncontrolled metabolic disorder, hyperuricemia, which leads to the deposition of monosodium urate crystals in tissue. 2  Hyperuricemia means too much uric acid in the blood.
Jump to navigation. Gout is a painful disease that occurs when uric acid, a normal waste product, builds up in the blood and forms crystals in the joints and/or kidneys. Uric acid normally dissolves in the blood, processes through the kidney, and leaves the body in the urine. Gout and Hyperuricemia. Gout is a painful disease that occurs when uric acid, a normal waste product, builds up in the blood and forms crystals in the joints and/or kidneys.
1 Gout is a form of arthritis caused by excess uric acid in the bloodstream. 2  The symptoms of gout are due to the formation of uric acid crystals in the joints. 3  Gout most commonly affects the joint in the base of the big toe. 4  Gout attacks often occur without warning in the middle of the night. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1 
Gout is a kind of arthritis caused by a buildup of uric acid crystals in the joints. Uric acid is a breakdown product of purines that are part of many foods we eat. An abnormality in handling uric acid and crystallization of these compounds in joints can cause attacks of painful arthritis, kidney stones, and blockage of the kidney filtering tubules with uric acid crystals, leading to kidney failure.
Gout is caused by the buildup of too much uric acid in the body. Uric acid comes from the breakdown of substances called purines. Purines are found in all of your body’s tissues. They are also in many foods, such as liver, dried beans and peas, and anchovies. 
Gout is most common in men. Gout is caused by too much uric acid in the blood. Most of the time, having too much uric acid isn't harmful. Many people with high levels in their blood never get gout. But when uric acid levels in your blood are too high, the uric acid may form hard crystals in your joints. Gout is a kind of arthritis. It can cause an attack of sudden burning pain, stiffness, and swelling in a joint, usually a big toe. These attacks can happen over and over unless gout is treated. Over time, they can harm your joints, tendons, and other tissues.
Gout is a disease characterized by an abnormal metabolism of uric acid, resulting in an excess of uric acid in the tissues and blood. People with gout either produce too much uric acid, or more commonly, their kidneys are inadequate in removing it. 
Gout is a metabolic disorder which causes inflammation of the joints. In acute cases, some joints swell up within just a few hours and become very sensitive to pain. The inflammation is triggered by tiny needle-shaped crystals of uric acid that build up mostly in the joints. 
Gout is a painful condition that occurs when the bodily waste product uric acid is deposited as needle-like crystals in the joints and/or soft tissues. In the joints, these uric acid crystals cause inflammatory arthritis, which in turn leads to intermittent swelling, redness, heat, pain, and stiffness in the joints. Hyperuricemia is not a disease, and by itself it is not dangerous. However, if excess uric acid crystals form as a result of hyperuricemia, gout can develop. The crystals form and accumulate in the joint, causing inflammation.