You can easily grow milkweed plants to attract the Monarch and other flying creatures to your garden. Plant seeds of the milkweed plant indoors or direct sow outside after danger of frost has passed and soil has warmed.
Common Milkweed is an important plant because so many species of insects depend on it. Monarch Butterflies, Milkwee Bugs, and Milkweed Leaf Beetles only eat milkweed, and could not survive without it. Many other species of insects use milkweed as their primary food source, or as a major food source.
Tropical milkweed Asclepias curassavica is one of my two favorite in the milkweed family of plants because.... 1  Monarch's favorite plant in my garden for egg-laying. 2  Very easy to grow from seed. 3  Attractive and neat (height 2-3' width 1-2').
Milkweed plants are herbaceous perennials. Characteristics: Common milkweed plants are tall (3 feet), thin, summer-bloomers. The flower cluster forms a globe atop the plant's rigid stem. The flowers come in various shades of pink, and they are fragrant flowers. Leaves are broad-oblong and light green.
An aside: We wish nurseries would offer six-packs of small milkweed plants rather than large, pricey single plants. They grow quickly enough that these large plants aren't necessary, and having one plant isn't going to really help much.
This may lead you to wonder what does milkweed look like. The milkweed plant is an upright specimen that may reach 2 to 6 feet. Leaves grow from a thick stalk and are large and green, taking on a reddish color as the plant matures.
Plant Type: Milkweed plants are herbaceous perennials. Characteristics: Common milkweed plants are tall (3 feet), thin, summer-bloomers. The flower cluster forms a globe atop the plant's rigid stem. The flowers come in various shades of pink, and they are fragrant flowers. Leaves are broad-oblong and light green.
Do not grow too big and then plant in the garden. Each variety of milkweed is different, so it is hard to give any guidance on how long to grow a plantAnother method I tried was to soak the seeds in hot water for 36 hours, changing the water with fresh water after 12 hours.