By 7 days a Blastocyst (5dt) implantation has usually occurred and the test would be positive, but a late implantation is not unheard of so I would wait for the next pregnancy test at day#9. If the next one is negative then that is the result. But for your future information, a home pregnancy test will only term positive after the bHCG hormone has reached a certain level. It is meant to be done after a period is missed, which is over 14 days. For that reason, it often will not show as early as when a blood pregnancy test is done following IVF.
1 Medications-Some drugs like Methadone, chlordiazepoxide, or promethazine can give a false positive pregnancy test.  2  Phantom-hCG 3  . The most important though very rare false positive blood test is a woman who has a low positive blood pregnancy test, the urine test is negative, and she is not pregnant. 1 The most important though very rare false positive blood test is a woman who has a low positive blood pregnancy test, the urine test is negative, and she is not pregnant. 2  Defective Pregnancy Test-Expired tests or faulty home pregnancy tests can also lead to false positive results.
Blood Pregnancy Test. The outcome of your cycle will be known for sure with your blood pregnancy test 11 to 12 days after your day 5 transfer or 13 to 14 days after a day 3 transfer. If your blood pregnancy test is negative, you may stop your medications and expect your period to start within the next few days, but it may not come for two weeks. If it doesn’t come after 2 weeks, please call your nurse. This period may be a heavier one than normal for you.
1. Testing To Early. One of the most common reasons for a false negative result is testing too early. In order for a pregnancy test to show accurate results, you have to give your body time to produce the levels of hcg (pregnancy hormone) that the pregnancy test needs in order to trigger a positive result. Typically, if you get a positive pregnancy test, you are pregnant. False positives are pretty rare. As you are just a little late, it could be that your system hasn’t had the time to build up a high enough level of hcg in your urine on a continual basis.
IVF. The outcome of your cycle will be known for sure with your blood pregnancy test 11 to 12 days after your day 5 transfer or 13 to 14 days after a day 3 transfer. If your blood pregnancy test is negative, you may stop your medications and expect your period to start within the next few days, but it may not come for two weeks. If it doesn’t come after 2 weeks, please call your nurse. This period may be a heavier one than normal for you.
1 Fertility treatment: If you receive shots of hCG or gonadotropins (for example, Pregynl, Profasi, Pergonal, APL) for ovulation it's posible to have a positive urine or blood pregnancy test for two to three weeks after the shot and not be pregnant. 1 The most important though very rare false positive blood test is a woman who has a low positive blood pregnancy test, the urine test is negative, and she is not pregnant. 2  Defective Pregnancy Test-Expired tests or faulty home pregnancy tests can also lead to false positive results.
In our practice, we have had patients with a serum beta-HCG level of more than 200 mIU/mL who nevertheless had a negative urine pregnancy test. We advise patients to obtain a blood pregnancy test 12 to 14 days after an IVF embryo transfer and to avoid home pregnancy testing. In-office blood pregnancy tests provide the most reliable and accurate result. 
A negative result on a home pregnancy test COULD mean that you are not pregnant, that the test was performed too early, or that there was a problem with the technique or timing. If you suspect that you are pregnant and that you received a false negative, wait for a few days and test again. Typically, if you get a positive pregnancy test, you are pregnant. False positives are pretty rare. As you are just a little late, it could be that your system hasn’t had the time to build up a high enough level of hcg in your urine on a continual basis.
A blood test is used to measure a woman's production of the HCG hormone during pregnancy. Home pregnancy test showing positive and negative results. After IVF, a woman who is actually pregnant should receive an accurate result when testing. A negative pregnancy test after IVF with no period is reason to try another test in a few days. No pregnancy test should be read after ten minutes have passed, as it is likely to indicate a false positive. Blood tests which test the exact level of Hcg in the a woman’s system are the most accurate and are right nearly 100% of the time. If a pregnancy test after IVF is negative, but no menstrual period comes after several weeks, a second test may be given. False negatives are fairly common when using urine tests and are usually the result of testing too early