How to Play Windows PC Games on a Mac. “PC gaming” has traditionally meant Windows gaming, but it doesn’t have to. More new games support Mac OS X than ever, and you can play any Windows game on your Mac. There are many ways you can play those Windows PC games on your Mac. After all, Macs have been standard Intel PCs that come with a different operating system preinstalled since 2006. If you already have a Windows PC — ideally a gaming PC with powerful enough graphics hardware, enough CPU power, and a big hard drive — you can use Steam’s in-home streaming feature to stream games running on your Windows PC to your Mac.
If you install Windows and play Windows games while booting Windows on an Intel-based Mac, you can expect performance roughly equivalent to a similarly-equipped Windows PC. Perhaps one of the more in-depth opinions is from April 7, 2006 and is provided by gaming website 1UP.com. Regarding Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion: If you want a Mac, but would like to play Windows games, Apple's Boot Camp makes it easy to install Windows, boot Windows, and play Windows games on Intel-based Macs. Permalink | E-mail a Friend | Bookmark & Share | Report an Error/Typo.
Macs don’t come with Windows, but you can install Windows on your Mac via Boot Camp and reboot into Windows whenever you want to play these games. This allows you to run Windows games at the same speeds they’d run at on a Windows PC laptop with the same hardware. If you already have a Windows PC — ideally a gaming PC with powerful enough graphics hardware, enough CPU power, and a big hard drive — you can use Steam’s in-home streaming feature to stream games running on your Windows PC to your Mac.
Play Windows games on a Mac with Boot Camp. Apple's virtualization solution is fairly simple. By installing Boot camp and Windows onto your machine, you can run startup through Windows and begin gaming from there, provided your system has the graphical power to keep up. Play Windows games on a Mac with Wine. Wine is a free, open-source alternative to CrossOver that might save you some money. The application is still in its Beta phase, so expect the occasional hiccup here and there.
PC games: they can be the bane of a Mac gamer’s existence. The Mac may be a better computer than a windows box, but even so, most games don’t support OS X. Even on Steam, the leader in cross-platform computer game support, most games run only on Windows. First up, you’re gonna need an Intel Mac. If you’re still running a Power-PC Mac, a) it’s time to upgrade and b) this isn’t going to work. To find out what kind of Mac you have, click on the Apple menu in the upper left corner of your screen, choose About This Mac, and it will tell you.
There are numerous ways to get the best PC games on a Mac, such as Steam, The App Store, and independent game stores. Alternatively, you can play the latest stunning Windows PC games on a Mac using virtualization software like Parallels Desktop and Boot Camp. Here is our guide to the best Windows PC games and how to get them on a Mac: See also. 1  Best Mac Games 2013: The top Mac games. 2  Best iPad and iPhone games 2013. We've spoken here about the specific methods you can use to play five brilliant PC games on your Mac, but there are general methods you can use to run almost any Windows PC software on Apple hardware. You can run Windows on a Mac using Boot Camp, and then run Windows software-including PC games-on that installation. Boot Camp is the easiest option in most cases because the required feature-Boot Camp itself-is built into OS X
For maximum performance, the best way to play Windows games on an Intel-based Mac is to install Apple Boot Camp, install Windows, and then boot into Windows to play Windows games. 
Regaring F.E.A.R: Regarding Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion: If you want a Mac, but would like to play Windows games, Apple's Boot Camp makes it easy to install Windows, boot Windows, and play Windows games on Intel-based Macs. Permalink | E-mail a Friend | Bookmark & Share | Report an Error/Typo.