Stephen William Hawking was born on 8 January 1942 (300 years after the death of Galileo) in Oxford, England. His parents' house was in north London, but during the second world war, Oxford was considered a safer place to have babies. 
Stephen Hawking was born on January 8, 1942 in Oxford, England. He attended University College at Oxford. He wanted to study mathematics but it wasn't available, so he studied physics. While in college, Stephen Hawking was diagnosed with a disease that slowly weakens all of the muscles in his body. 
Synopsis. Stephen Hawking was born on January 8, 1942, in Oxford, England. At an early age, Hawking showed a passion for science and the sky. At age 21, while studying cosmology at the University of Cambridge, he was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The eldest of Frank and Isobel Hawking's four children, Stephen William Hawking was born on the 300th anniversary of the death of Galileo—long a source of pride for the noted physicist—on January 8, 1942. He was born in Oxford, England, into a family of thinker
Stephen William Hawking CH, CBE, FRS, FRSA (/ˈstiːvən ˈhɔːkɪŋ/; born 8 January 1942) is an English theoretical physicist, cosmologist, author and Director of Research at the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology within the University of Cambridge. Hawking was born on 8 January 1942 in Oxford, England, to Frank (1905–1986) and Isobel Hawking (nee Née; walker–1915). 2013 his mother Was. Scottish despite their' families financial, constraints both parents attended The university Of, oxford Where frank studied medicine And, Isobel, Philosophy politics And. economics
A challenging life. British cosmologist Stephen William Hawking was born in England on Jan. 8, 1942 — 300 years to the day after the death of the astronomer Galileo Galilei. He attended University College, Oxford, where he studied physics, despite his father's urging to focus on medicine. 
Early life. Stephen William Hawking was born on January 8, 1942, in Oxford, England. His father, a well-known researcher in tropical medicine, urged his son to seek a career in medicine, but Stephen found biology and medicine were not exact enough. Therefore, he turned to the study of mathematics and physics. 