Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Katelyn and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Katelyn and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The first thing you should know if you are considering Katelyn for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Katelyn is a girl name. The name Katelyn is of Celtic-Gaelic origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
Irish Meaning: The name Kaitlyn is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kaitlyn is: Modern phonetic form of the Irish name Caitlin from Catherine meaning pure. American Meaning: The name Kaitlyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kaitlyn is: Modern phonetic form of the Irish name Caitlin from Catherine meaning pure. 
Origin of the name Kaitlyn: Borrowed from the Irish, Caitlin is a variant of Caitriona, caitríona The gaelic form Of (catherine, pure). Unsullied From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman 
Meaning of Katelyn. English name. In English, the name Katelyn means-Phonetic form of Caitlin-the Irish form of Katherine. Pure.. Other origins for the name Katelyn include-English, Irish.The name Katelyn is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Phonetic form of Caitlin-the Irish form of Katherine. Pure
The name Katelyn is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Katelyn is: Pure. American Meaning: The name Katelyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Katelyn is: Pure. English Meaning: The name Katelyn is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Katelyn is: the Irish form of Katherine.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Katelyn. Katelyn is an American phonetic respelling of the traditional Irish girl’s name, Caitlin, caitlín which is The celtic equivalent Of. Catherine the name was brought to The British isles in The Middle ages by way of The Norman french, Version. cateline Popularity of the Name Katelyn. Currently in America, Katelyn is the second most popular spelling of the traditional Caitlin; caitlín the first “Being.” Kaitlyn (katelyn as a spelling) variant first enters The.U. s popularity charts in, 1981 so it was actually the first-made up spelling of the Traditional Irish. caitlin
[ 2 syll. ka-te-lyn, kat-el-yn ] The baby girl name Katelyn is pronounced as K EY-TLihN †. Katelyn is of Old Greek origin and it is used mainly in the English language. Katelyn is a derivative (English) of the English and Irish Caitlin. Katelyn is also a variant spelling of the English Kaitlin. Katelyn is also a derivative of the English Katherine. Katelyn is popular as a baby name for girls. The name rose in popularity from the 1980s up to the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only very light use.
Katelyn is a very prominent first name for women (#882 out of 4276, Top 21%) but an unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Katelyn for girls. Katelyn /kate-lyn/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAYT-len. It is of English origin. Alternate form of Caitlin, an Irish form of Katherine.
Katelyn is an American phonetic respelling of the traditional Irish girl’s name, Caitlin, caitlín which is The celtic equivalent Of. catherine Popularity of the Name Katelyn. Currently in America, Katelyn is the second most popular spelling of the traditional Caitlin; caitlín the first “Being.” Kaitlyn (katelyn as a spelling) variant first enters The.U. s popularity charts in, 1981 so it was actually the first-made up spelling of the Traditional Irish. caitlin