As is always the case, do not adjust your buspirone dose unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. The recommended dose of buspirone when treating anxiety is 7.5 mg twice daily. If your symptoms do not improve with a dose of 7.5 mg twice a day, your healthcare provider may gradually increase this to a maximum of 60 mg a day.
Buspirone comes in tablets of 5, 10, 15, or 30 milligrams (mg). The tablets have a scored mark down the middle so you can split a pill in half if necessary. A typical dose starts at 7.5 mg every 12 hours. An average daily dose is 20 to 30 mg a day in divided doses. The maximum daily dose is 60 mg. Always take buspirone at the same time each day, with or without food.
As is always the case, do not adjust your dose unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. The recommended dose of BuSpar when treating anxiety is 7.5 mg twice a day. Your healthcare provider may gradually increase your dose as needed to control your anxiety symptoms (up to a maximum of 60 mg total per day). 
Common Buspar Dosages. A typical starting dose is 15 mg daily; it may be taken with or without food. The dose may be increased by 5 mg in intervals of every 2 to 3 days. Generally, the maximum daily dosage should not exceed 60 mg daily, as doses in excess of that amount yield little clinical benefit. In addition, larger doses such as 60 mg are often divided into 30 mg per day.
BuSpar (buspirone) is supplied as tablets for oral administration containing 5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, or 30 mg of buspirone hydrochloride, USP (equivalent to 4.6 mg, 9.1 mg, 13.7 mg, and 27.4 mg of buspirone free base, respectively). The 5 mg and 10 mg tablets are scored so they can be bisected. 
BuSpar® (buspirone hydrochloride tablets, USP) Tablets, 5 mg and 10 mg (white, ovoid-rectangular with score, MJ logo, strength and the name BuSpar (buspirone) embossed) are available in bottles of 100. However, mild depressive symptoms are common in GAD. The effectiveness of BuSpar (buspirone) in long-term use, that is, for more than 3 to 4 weeks, has not been demonstrated in controlled trials.
Recommended dosage. The usual starting dose of buspirone is 10 to 15 mg per day. This total amount is divided into two or three doses during the day. For example, a dose of 5 mg may be given two or three times per day to make a total dose of 10 to 15 mg per day. The dose may be increased in increments of 5 mg daily every two to four days. Most patients will respond to a dose of 15 to 30 mg daily.
INDICATIONS. BuSpar (buspirone) is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. However, mild depressive symptoms are common in GAD. The effectiveness of BuSpar (buspirone) in long-term use, that is, for more than 3 to 4 weeks, has not been demonstrated in controlled trials.
Buspirone Dosage. Buspirone comes in tablets of 5, 10, 15, or 30 milligrams (mg). The tablets have a scored mark down the middle so you can split a pill in half if necessary. A typical dose starts at 7.5 mg every 12 hours. Your doctor may increase your daily dose by 5 mg every few days if needed. An average daily dose is 20 to 30 mg a day in divided doses. The maximum daily dose is 60 mg. Always take buspirone at the same time each day, with or without food.