If you are not sure whether a food contains starches or not, look at the ingredient list. Anything made from wheat or other grains and their flour contains starches. Potatoes and other starchy vegetables are other starch-rich foods that you should get rid of to help you stick to your no-starch diet. Foods made from starchy vegetables, grains or their flours, such as french fries, baked potatoes, breads, pasta, rice, cookies and cakes, are all high in starches. Some starches can be metabolized as quickly and even quicker than sugar, which means that they can rapidly increase your blood sugar levels after eating.
Starchy foods, sometimes called complex carbohydrates, include grains, beans and legumes and starchy vegetables. Foods in this group include pasta, breads, popcorn, crackers, tortillas, cereals, rice, oatmeal, barley, millet and other grains. Starchy Vegetables. Starchy vegetables include peas, corn, potatoes, cassava, taro, water chestnuts, plantains, green bananas and lima beans.
Tips for Carbohydrate Counters Starchy foods are one of the main sources of carbohydrate in our diet—along with milk, fruits, and sweets. For most grains and starches, ½ cup or 1 oz contains 15 g of carbohydrate. A few exceptions are 1 cup of winter squash and pumpkin and ⅓ cup of rice has about 15 grams. 
All grains contain starch. The majority of grain-based foods in your diet should come from whole grains, however. Aside from starch, these foods are full of other nutrients like B vitamins, iron, magnesium and fiber. Different Kinds of Vegetables. All veggies contain a little starch, but some are classified as nonstarchy. These vegetables, including lettuce, peppers, asparagus, onions, eggplant and artichokes, are very low in starch.
Beans and Other Legumes. Beans and other legumes have the distinction of counting as both starchy foods and protein foods. These include lentils, kidney beans, black-eyed peas, chickpeas, black beans, white beans, pinto beans and any other types of dried beans. Starchy Vegetables. Starchy vegetables include peas, corn, potatoes, cassava, taro, water chestnuts, plantains, green bananas and lima beans.
Starchy foods such as potatoes, bread, cereals, rice and pasta should make up about a third of the food you eat, as shown by the eatwell plate. Where you can, choose wholegrain varieties, or eat potatoes with their skins on for more fibre. Starch is the most common form of carbohydrate in our diet. Low-carb diets. Low-carbohydrate (low-carb) diets usually involve cutting out most starchy foods. These diets tend to be high in fat, and eating a high-fat diet (especially saturated fat from foods such as meat, cheese and butter) could increase your risk of heart disease.
Fruit Details. Fruits generally have higher amounts of sugar than starch, although some of the total carbohydrate content does come from starch. Avocados, mangoes, oranges, nectarines, peaches, apples, berries, grapefruit, pineapple, grapes and melons are just some of the fruits that have starch. Different Kinds of Vegetables. All veggies contain a little starch, but some are classified as nonstarchy. These vegetables, including lettuce, peppers, asparagus, onions, eggplant and artichokes, are very low in starch.
Additional Grain Foods. All grains contain starch. The majority of grain-based foods in your diet should come from whole grains, however. Aside from starch, these foods are full of other nutrients like B vitamins, iron, magnesium and fiber. Opt for whole-wheat pasta, brown rice or wild rice. Different Kinds of Vegetables. All veggies contain a little starch, but some are classified as nonstarchy. These vegetables, including lettuce, peppers, asparagus, onions, eggplant and artichokes, are very low in starch.
Starch. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice. ( 4 The majority of grain products in the US are made from wheat flour
Starches are omnipresent in many foods, which makes them difficult to avoid. Starches make up a large part of the carbohydrates consumed by Americans. Foods made from starchy vegetables, grains or their flours, such as french fries, baked potatoes, breads, pasta, rice, cookies and cakes, are all high in starches. Some starches can be metabolized as quickly and even quicker than sugar, which means that they can rapidly increase your blood sugar levels after eating.