Hepatitis Be antigen (HBeAg) is found in the early phase of hepatitis B infection soon after hepatitis Bs antigen becomes detectable. Serum levels of both antigens rise rapidly during the period of viral replication.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) tests check for substances in the blood that show whether a hepatitis B infection is active or has occurred in the past. The tests look for different signs of infection (markers): 1  Antigens are markers made by bacteria or viruses.
1 Hepatitis B e-antigen (HBeAg) is an HBV protein that is only present during an active HBV infection. 2  This test determines how contagious you are. 3  Testing for this antigen can also be used to monitor the effectiveness of treatment for HBV. 4  HBV DNA testing checks for genetic material (DNA) from the hepatitis B virus.
HBV has proteins called antigens on its surface that cause your immune system to make antibodies. It can take 30 to 150 days to develop symptoms of hepatitis B after you become infected. Hepatitis B surface antigens can be found in your blood within 12 weeks after the infection starts.
HBeAg (Hepatitis B e-Antigen) - This is a viral protein that is secreted by hepatitis B infected cells. It is associated with chronic hepatitis B infections and is used as a marker of active viral disease and a patient's degree of infectiousness.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) tests may be used for a variety of reasons. Some of the tests detect antibodies produced in response to HBV infection; some detect antigens produced by the virus, and others detect viral DNA. The main uses for HBV tests include:
Description: This test is used in the diagnosis and monitoring of Hepatitis B (Hep B) infections. The Be Antigen test looks for the presence of a protein found in the blood when the Hep B virus is actively replicating.
hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) one present in the serum of those infected with hepatitis B, consisting of the surface coat lipoprotein of the hepatitis B virus. Tests for serum HbsAg are used in the diagnosis of hepatitis B and in testing blood products for infectivity. heterogeneic antigen xenogeneic antigen.