If you’re not already getting benefits, you should contact Social Security about three months before your 65th birthday to sign up for Medicare. You can sign up for Medicare even if you don’t plan to retire at age 65.
If you aren’t eligible for full Social Security retirement benefits at age 65, and you. aren’t getting Social Security benefits, you can still get your full Medicare benefits. (including premium-free Part A) at age 65, but you must contact Social Security to. sign up.
Example. For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Note.
Note. You can sign up for free Part A (if you’re eligible) any time during or after your Initial Enrollment Period starts. If you sign up within 6 months of your 65th birthday, your coverage will start the first day of the month you turn 65, or the month before you turn 65 (if your birthday is the first of the month). After that, you’re coverage start date will go back (retroactively) 6 months from when you sign up. Example.
Generally, people become eligible for Medicare coverage at the age of 65. However, there are two circumstances in which you can get coverage at 62, or even sooner. In some cases, coverage will begin automatically.
A) If you or your spouse is disabled, contact Social Security about Medicare eligibility. If eligible for Medicare for Part A for free, enroll in Part A and B and contact the GIC at 617-727-2310 Ext 6 to begin the enrollment process.
If you sign up for Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) and/or Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) during the first 3 months of your Initial Enrollment Period, your coverage start date will depend on your birthday.
For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65.