Most plant diseases – around 85 percent – are caused by fungal or fungal-like organisms. However, other serious diseases of food and feed crops are caused by viral and bacterial organisms. Certain nematodes also cause plant disease. You are not actually seeing the disease pathogen, but rather a symptom that is being caused by the pathogen. Here are a few examples of common signs and symptoms of fungal, bacterial and viral plant diseases: Fungal disease signs: 1  Leaf rust (common leaf rust in corn). 2  Stem rust (wheat stem rust).
Other fungi provide numerous drugs (such as penicillin and other antibiotics), foods like mushrooms, truffles and morels, and the bubbles in bread, champagne, and beer. Fungi also cause a number of plant and animal diseases: in humans, ringworm, athlete's foot, and several more serious diseases are caused by fungi. Because fungi are more chemically and genetically similar to animals than other organisms, this makes fungal diseases very difficult to treat. Plant diseases caused by fungi include rusts, smuts, and leaf, root, and stem rots, and may cause severe damage to crops. However, a number of fungi, in particular the yeasts, are important model organisms for studying problems in genetics and molecular biology
Most plant diseases are caused by fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Although the term disease is usually used only for the destruction of live plants, the action of dry rot and the rotting of harvested crops in storage or transport is similar to the rots of growing plants; both are caused by bacteria and fungi. 
Comments. Submit. More than 8,000 types of fungi have the ability to precipitate diseases in plants, according to the University of Wisconsin's Plant Pathology website. Fungi use spores to reproduce and often the spread of these spores infects a healthy plant host with the fungus, leading to the disease. Some fungal diseases such as leaf spot and powdery mildew occur in a wide variety of plants, while others such as Dutch elm disease target a particular host. 
The bulk of this program concentrates on those plant health problems that are caused by pathogenic microorganisms. These organisms include fungi, bacteria, and viruses. About 85% of all plant diseases are caused by fungi. Therefore, on a statistical basis alone, you are likely to encounter fungal diseases much more often than those caused by other types of pathogens. We will now proceed to a description of the main characteristics of fungi. 
Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Fungi live outdoors in soil and on plants and trees as well as on many indoor surfaces and on human skin. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Mucormycosis – A rare infection caused by different fungi that belong to a group of fungi called Mucoromycotina. These fungi typically live in soil and in association with decaying organic matter, such as leaves, compost piles, or rotten wood.
Fungi and fungi like organisms (FLOs) such as Pythium and Phytophthora collectively cause more diseases in the plants then do rest of the pathogen as a whole. More than 10,000 species of the fungi and FLOs are known to be pathogen to plants. 
Once one of your plants is infected by a fungus, it is important that you protect your other plants from the fungal infection. Plant diseases that are caused by fungi reduce the crops, create markings, affect the flowers and fruits, finally causing death of the plant. Majority of the plant diseases, about 8,000, are caused by fungi. Let's have a look at the major ones below. Along with fungi, even bacteria and viruses affect plants. At the same time, some plant diseases are caused by adverse environmental and climatic conditions. There are some plants that have a natural resistance to certain diseases, especially if these diseases and the plants have evolved together. 
Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues. 
Fungi constitute the largest number of plant pathogens and are responsible for a range of serious plant diseases. Most vegetable diseases are caused by fungi. They damage plants by killing cells and/or causing plant stress. Sources of fungal infections are infected seed, soil, crop debris, nearby crops and weeds.