Even though Tramadol is not a narcotic, it can still be addictive although in a unique way to other drugs. Typically what happens is an individual's tolerance builds over time, which means to get the same degree of pain relief, a greater dose is required. As most people know, true opiates such as morphine and hydrocodone are highly addictive drugs because they contain narcotic components. In comparison, Tramadol is a non-narcotic medication even though the effects it produces are similar to narcotics.
Given the addictive nature of all opioid drugs, it might make sense to class Tramadol as a narcotic. In a legal sense, most opium, opium derivatives, and their semi-synthetic substitutes are already considered narcotics. Furthermore, Tramadol can be addictive and is prone abuse and misuse. No Ultram (Tramadol) is not considered a controlled substance in the state of Georgia, though it is listed as a dangerous drug. Not sure what listing it as a dangerous drug involves, though. If you have a prescription, I wouldn’t worry too much.
The interesting thing about Tramadol is that while not a narcotic, if someone becomes dependent on this drug and then stops, withdrawal symptoms would occur. Although everyone has a different experience, for the most part the following symptoms would be associated with a withdrawal after stopping the use of Tramadol. As most people know, true opiates such as morphine and hydrocodone are highly addictive drugs because they contain narcotic components. In comparison, Tramadol is a non-narcotic medication even though the effects it produces are similar to narcotics.
While Tramadol may be considered a safer alternative to stronger, narcotic painkillers, dependence and addiction to the drug can occur. While classified as a non-narcotic, Tramadol is, indeed, a narcotic. And, it shares many of the side-effects seen in narcotic drugs, like heroin. Because it shares many of these side-effects, Tramadol addiction is a reality, and can potentially be life-threatening. Tramadol is not a narcotic. It targets opiate receptors and so behaves like a narcotic in certain ways but it is not a true narcotic. tramadol. Posted June 5, 2015 at 12:11 am | Permalink. Tramadol 50mg a day with 40-60mg of lopermide can eliminate all withrawels from oxys,dilauded and vicodin addiction..
Tramadol, like other narcotics used for the treatment of pain, may be abused. Tramadol is not a nonsteroidal anti-iinflammatory drug (NSAID) and does not have the increased risk of stomach ulceration and internal bleeding that can occur with NSAIDs. The FDA approved tramadol in March 1995. PRESCRIBED FOR: Tramadol is used in the management of moderate to moderately severe pain. Extended release tablets are used for moderate to moderately severe chronic pain in adults who require continuous treatment for an extended period. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 2/25/2015
While Tramadol is generally weaker in strength compared to heroin, methadone, and other narcotics, it still causes the typical narcotic side-effects such as fatigue, drowsiness, confusion, muscle weakness and even hallucination. Tramadol is not a narcotic. It targets opiate receptors and so behaves like a narcotic in certain ways but it is not a true narcotic. tramadol. Posted June 5, 2015 at 12:11 am | Permalink. Tramadol 50mg a day with 40-60mg of lopermide can eliminate all withrawels from oxys,dilauded and vicodin addiction..
Tramadol (marketed as Ultram, and as generics) is an opioid pain medication used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. When taken as an immediate-release oral formulation, the onset of pain relief usually occurs within about an hour. It has two different mechanisms. First, it binds to the μ-opioid receptor. Tramadol is used primarily to treat mild-severe pain, both acute and chronic. Tramadol is recommended for the management of pain in fibromyalgia by the European League Against Rheumatism.
Because there is risk of someone becoming dependent on Tramadol, most doctors are keen to dosage and do not prescribe this medication long-term. Keep in mind that Tramadol is a better treatment option when compared to narcotic type drugs such as morphine, hydrocodone, and oxycodone but it too can be abused. Typically, a doctor will start a person on a very low dose and again, for a short period of time. As most people know, true opiates such as morphine and hydrocodone are highly addictive drugs because they contain narcotic components. In comparison, Tramadol is a non-narcotic medication even though the effects it produces are similar to narcotics.
Home » Tramadol Uses, Warnings and Treatment. Tramadol is a narcotic-like pain reliever. Tramadol hydrochloride is a Generic name brand for Ultram, it is usually used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is available in extended release tablets and should be taken exactly as directed.