A Dr. Elena Yanushpolsky, MD, OBGYN (Obstetrics & Gynecology), answered on behalf of Brigham and Women's Hospital. Progesterone is a hormone that is secreted by the ovary after ovulation. During the first two weeks of the menstrual cycle, the growing egg is surrounded by granulosa cell. During that time, up until ovulation, granulose cells mainly secrete the hormone estrogen. Once ovulation takes place and the egg is released from the ovary, granulosa cells change their secretion pattern and begin to secrete progesterone in addition to estrogen.
Steroids are common in both plants and animals...... Click the link for more information. , progesterone is secreted chiefly by the corpus luteum, a group of cells formed in the ovary ovary,ductless gland of the female in which the ova (female reproductive cells) are produced. 
Guide. A progesterone test measures the amount of the hormone progesterone in a blood sample. Progesterone is a female hormone produced by the ovaries during release of a mature egg from an ovary (ovulation). Progesterone helps prepare the lining of the uterus (endometrium) to receive the egg if it becomes fertilized by a sperm. 
Estrogen and Progesterone. Estrogen is produced by the ovarian follicle (ovary), and estrogen levels rise through the early part of the menstrual cycle. Progesterone begins to be produced upon ovulation, and levels elevate through the remainder of the cycle until dropping just prior to the menstrual flow. 
As the egg migrates down the fallopian tube, progesterone is released. It is secreted by a temporary gland formed within the ovary after ovulation called the corpus luteum. Progesterone prepares the body for pregnancy by causing the uterine lining to thicken. If a woman is not pregnant, the corpus luteum disappears. If a woman is pregnant, the pregnancy will trigger high levels of estrogen and progesterone, which prevent further eggs from maturing. Progesterone is secreted to prevent uterine contractions that may disturb the growing embryo.
Progesterone is also responsible for maintaining a pregnancy. Progesterone is secreted from the ovary after ovulation by a mass called a “corpus luteum.” The corpus luteum is maintained by the hormone hCG until the placenta is capable of taking over progesterone production.
Progesterone. Progesterone is one of the steroid hormones. It is secreted by the corpus luteum and by the placenta and is responsible for preparing the body for pregnancy and, if pregnancy occurs, maintaining it until birth. If pregnancy does occur, the placenta begins to secrete progesterone which supplements that of the corpus luteum. In fact, by the fifth month of pregnancy, the placenta secretes sufficient progesterone by itself that the corpus luteum is no longer essential to maintain pregnancy.
What is progesterone? Progesterone belongs to a group of steroid hormones called progestogens. It is mainly secreted by the corpus luteum in the ovary during the second half of the menstrual cycle. It plays important roles in the menstrual cycle and in maintaining the early stages of pregnancy. Progesterone. Print | Email article to a friend | Last updated: January 14, 2015. Progesterone is a hormone released by the corpus luteum in the ovary. It plays important roles in the menstrual cycle and in maintaining the early stages of pregnancy. It may also be involved in the growth of certain cancers.