According to the EU, GMO refers to plants and animalsin which the genetic material has been altered in a way that does not occur naturally by mating and/or natural recombination.. 1) Corn. Almost 85 perecent of corn grown in the U.S. is genetically modified.
GMO foods have been on the market for nearly 20 years, since 1996. During those years, most of us have eaten GMOs in many foods, from soybeans, beef, dairy products, corn, beets, sugar, cottonseed, and rapeseed, which is used to make canola oil.
Other crops, which are labeled as monitored crops by the Non GMO project, can potentially become contaminated with GMOs by genetically modified relatives. Crops in this group include wheat, rice, flax, acorn squash, bok choy, turnips, rutabaga, Siberian kale, table beets and chard.
Genetically modified organisms are present in many common foods today. The process of genetically altering a plant or animal involves the manipulation of its genetic material to create traits that cannot occur through traditional crossbreeding.
Most of the corn grown in the U.S. is genetically engineered. A GMO food is a food derived from one or more genetically modified organisms, or GMOs. Genetic modification involves the insertion of foreign genes – usually from another plant, animal or microorganism – into a food source’s genetic code.
Genetically modified food (GM food) is food which has been produced using organisms that have been engineered genetically (GM organisms). GM food either contains GM organisms, or GM organisms have been used to create the food. Common examples include maize, soybean, cotton and rapeseed.
Even Whole Foods's brand of corn flakes was found to contain genetically modified corn. Many producers modify corn and soy so they are resistant to the herbicide glyphosate, which is used to kill weeds.
Many people, even in the world of Natural Foods, don’t know what a GMO is, let alone which crops and processed ingredients are high-risk. As such, labeling only products that contain high-risk ingredients could give an unfair competitive advantage to products that contain ingredients containing corn, soy, etc.
GMO, genetic modification, biotechnology, biotech seeds, genetic engineering Genetically modified organism. (GMO) is commonly used to describe any of the terms above, but actually means that a change has been made to the DNA of an organism.