If you were looking for the article about the character, then see Goofy Goober.  Goofy Goober Rock  is a song that was performed by SpongeBob SquarePants at the climax of The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie. It is a parody of the Goofy Goober Song and Twisted Sister's 1984 song  I Wanna Rock , from their album Stay Hungry. 
A goober IS a peanut.. It can also be used to refer to a goofy or silly person, as in Don't act like such a goober.. Goober peas, being under ground, were commonly the only food left available in any sufficient amount to eat and doubtlessly saved many from starvation. In southern slang calling someone a goober is the same as calling them a peanut brain.
Contrary to what some have accused, my using the term Goober is not a slur against people lacking in intelligence. It's just a way to laugh at ourselves and the silly things we sometimes do (even though some goober jokes feature things so stupid nobody would do them.). We've all been Goobers at one point or another in our lives by doing things that looked like we had disconnected from whatever intelligence we possess. Goober is a term that I substitute into jokes that feature blondes, terms of ethnicity, and the like. That way we can laugh without having to risk hurting someone.
Word History: Most Southerners recognize the terms goober and goober pea as other names for the peanut. Goober originates among the Bantu languages and is akin to the word meaning peanut in the Kongo and Kimbundu languages, n-guba. Noun. 1. goober-pod of the peanut vine containing usually 2 nuts or seeds; `groundnut' and `monkey nut' are British terms. goober pea, monkey nut, groundnut, earthnut, peanut. edible nut-a hard-shelled seed consisting of an edible kernel or meat enclosed in a woody or leathery shell.
Top Definition. goober. basically a goober is just a kindhearted, rather oblivious goofball. it's term of endearment really. it comes from the ancient scottish verb to goub, which has to do with doing a dance and smiling sheepishly while doing so, exposing the goubs in one's teeth. A goober always has a big, stupid smile on its face, and has a dumb, gargly laugh. It wears one-color, oversized pastel-colored shirts, and shorts without pockets, and Sketchers. oh man, that's one funny lookin kid. yeah i don't let my children play with goobers either.
Goober. Goober is a combination of peanut butter and jelly in a single jar. It is sold in North America and Singapore and is named after a North American name for the peanut, which comes from the Gullah word for peanut, guber. Goober was introduced by The J.M. Smucker Company under the Smucker's brand
7. goober. A goober is one of those little fat kids with ambiguous gender, red lips, rosy cheeks, a shiny bowl-cut, and maybe a little food on his/her face. A goober always has a big, stupid smile on its face, and has a dumb, gargly laugh. It wears one-color, oversized pastel-colored shirts, and shorts without pockets, and Sketchers. oh man, that's one funny lookin kid. yeah i don't let my children play with goobers either.
Goober may refer to: Food 1  : Another word for a peanut. 2  Goober (brand) , a food product combining peanut butter and fruit preserves. 3  Goobers, a Nestle nestlé brand name of-chocolate coated.  peanut
1. goober-pod of the peanut vine containing usually 2 nuts or seeds; `groundnut' and `monkey nut' are British terms. goober pea, monkey nut, groundnut, earthnut, peanut. edible nut-a hard-shelled seed consisting of an edible kernel or meat enclosed in a woody or leathery shell. Word History: Most Southerners recognize the terms goober and goober pea as other names for the peanut. Goober originates among the Bantu languages and is akin to the word meaning peanut in the Kongo and Kimbundu languages, n-guba.