Hashimoto’s disease also known as chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. It is causes inflammation of thyroid. It is a type of autoimmune disease in which your own body attacks your own tissues. This disease can be handled effectively using proper diet and exercise. Diet to be followed for Hashimoto’s disease: 1. Following healthy and balanced diet will reduce Hashimoto’s disease.
You might not notice signs or symptoms of Hashimoto's disease at first, or you may notice a swelling at the front of your throat (goiter). Hashimoto's disease typically progresses slowly over years and causes chronic thyroid damage, leading to a drop in thyroid hormone levels in your blood. The signs and symptoms are mainly those of an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism). Signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism include: 1  Fatigue and sluggishness. 2  Increased sensitivity to cold. 3  Constipation. 4  Pale, dry skin. 5  A puffy face. And if you're receiving hormone therapy for hypothyroidism caused by Hashimoto's disease, schedule follow-up visits as often as your doctor recommends. Initially, it's important to make sure you're receiving the correct dose of medicine.
Found This Helpful. Hashimoto's disease causes the body's immune system to attack the thyroid gland. The resulting inflammation often leads to hypothyroidism, which means that the thyroid gland is underactive. Symptoms of hypothyroidism can vary according to the severity of hormone deficiency. Common symptoms include fatigue, weight gain, sluggishness, a puffy face, muscle weakness and depression.
1 Graves' disease. 2  Graves’ disease is a type of autoimmunity in which the thyroid gland becomes overly active. 3  People who have Graves' disease may have trouble sleeping, irritability, unexplained weight loss, eyes that bulge, sensitivity to heat, muscle weakness, brittle hair, light menstrual periods, and hand shakiness. 1 Rheumatoid arthritis is a type of arthritis in which autoimmunity causes the immune system to attack tissues in the joints, leading to muscle pain, joint deformities, fatigue, weakness, appetite loss, weight loss, and sometimes confinement to bed.
A thyroid disease is a medical condition impairing the function of the thyroid. Different thyroid diseases include Hashimoto's thyroiditis, hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. These diseases have a large range of symptoms and affect all ages. Imbalance in production of thyroid hormones arises from dysfunction of the thyroid gland itself, the pituitary gland, which produces thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), or the hypothalamus, which regulates the pituitary gland via thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH).
A Diet for Hashimoto's Disease. Microscopic Image of a Thyroid Gland Photo Credit Duncan Smith/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Hashimoto’s disease, also called Hashimoto’s thyroiditis or chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis, is an autoimmune disorder in which your body makes antibodies that affect the function of your thyroid gland. The thyroid may become inflamed and underactive, a condition known as hypothyroidism. 
1 Graves’ disease is a type of autoimmunity in which the thyroid gland becomes overly active. 2  People who have Graves' disease may have trouble sleeping, irritability, unexplained weight loss, eyes that bulge, sensitivity to heat, muscle weakness, brittle hair, light menstrual periods, and hand shakiness. 1 Rheumatoid arthritis is a type of arthritis in which autoimmunity causes the immune system to attack tissues in the joints, leading to muscle pain, joint deformities, fatigue, weakness, appetite loss, weight loss, and sometimes confinement to bed.
Thyroid gland. Hashimoto's disease is a condition in which your immune system attacks your thyroid, a small gland at the base of your neck below your Adam's apple. The thyroid gland is part of your endocrine system, which produces hormones that coordinate many of your body's activities. Doctors test your thyroid function to help detect Hashimoto's disease. Treatment of Hashimoto's disease with thyroid hormone replacement usually is simple and effective. 1  Symptoms.
Hashimoto's disease is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. It primarily affects middle-aged women but also can occur in men and women of any age and in children. Doctors test your thyroid function to help detect Hashimoto's disease. Treatment of Hashimoto's disease with thyroid hormone replacement usually is simple and effective. 1  Symptoms.