Train Through Allergy Season. 120 calories; 1g fat; 3g carbs; 24g protein per 33g serving. Like whey, casein—which makes up 80 percent of the protein in cow’s milk and is also a byproduct of the cheese-making process—is not an option for vegans. But if you’re a lacto-vegetarian, you can add it to the roster
Gluten-free cookbooks have been available for decades. Casein is found in dairy products such as milk, butter or cheese, but is also present in smaller amounts in many substitute dairy products such as vegetarian cheese substitutes and whipped cream topping, which use casein to provide texture. 
Casein is a protein that is found in milk and used independently in many foods as a binding agent. Technically, it is part of a group called phosphoproteins, collections of proteins bound to something containing phosphoric acid. It may also be called caseinogen, particularly in European foods. No. Casein is found in milk, so you don't have to kill an animal to get it. Most dairy cows, however, are killed after their prime milk-producing years. I presume you are asking this question because you want to maintain a vegetarian diet. So, casein is just as vegetarian as any other milk product. On the subject of ethics, however, I would like to ask how ethical it is to feed your body a vegetarian. diet to which it is maladapted. Our bodies respond well to wild fish and seafood, as these are foods that were prevalent throughout our evolution
I've seen a bunch of different things on this, some saying that casein, caseinate, sodium caseinate, etcetera, are all made from the lining in animal's stomachs. Then there are a bunch of things saying that they aren't. So... Casein accounts for nearly 80% of proteins in cow milk and cheese. As it exists in milk, it is a salt of calcium. Casein is not coagulated by heat. It is precipitated by acids and by rennet enzymes, a proteolytic enzyme typically obtained from the stomachs of calves (for cheese making). But there are also non-animal sources for rennet that are suitable for vegetarian consumption
Explanation. Milk is mainly composed of Lactose (sugar), Whey (protein) and Casein (protein). People can have allergy or ethical problems with any of these. Unfortunately, it's not that easy to determine whether what you're eating is safe or not. 
Definition: Casein is a milk protein commonly used in processed foods. You’ll find it in many non-dairy creamers and soy cheeses. As it is derived from milk, casein is not vegan but it is vegetarian. Although many vegans do not mind a small amount of casein in their soy cheese, most avoid these products. Caseinates, such as calcium caseinate, potassium caseinate and sodium caseinate are derived from casein and as such, are also not vegan. If you are allergic to dairy, you should avoid both casein and caseinates
Casein is a protein found only in dairy products. Dr. T. Colin Campbell discovered that protein did indeed promote cancer development. However, it was not all types of protein. What Campbell discovered was that casein, which comprises 85% of the protein in cow’s milk, promoted cancer in all stages of its development. 