Before your baby can begin solid foods, he or she needs to be able to handle them. Until around four to six months of age, your baby’s stomach is not ready or fully developed to handle anything other than formula or breast milk, which is why doctors recommend waiting until this age to start your baby on solid foods. When you first introduce blueberries to your little one, make sure to either serve it alone or with another food your child has already enjoyed. Even though blueberries are not known to cause many allergic reactions, it is always best to wait three days in between feeding your child new foods.
There is much confusion about when you may feed your infant blueberries. A lot of the confusion stems from the fact that the commercial baby foods use blueberries in their “Stage 2″ foods that are targeted to infants between 6-8+ months old. Many believe that blueberries fall under the “no berries until after age 12 months old” rule. Blueberries are high in antioxidants and they also contain fiber, Vitamin A and Vitamin C. Blueberries are also thought be cholesterol reducers. Blueberries are a wonderful healthy food and make a great snack food for babies and adults alike.
After 4 to 6 months, your baby can handle properly pureed berries. Most parents look forward to introducing their baby to new foods. But it's important to start solids only when your baby is ready for the new taste and texture and not to rush the process. Berry puree for infants should contain no solid pieces. Babies just learning to eat don't know how to chew even soft pieces of food. Remove seeds if possible, since your baby could choke on them or have difficulty swallowing them. Don't add additional foods to the berry puree or mix several type of berries.
“Although solid foods should not be introduced before 4 to 6 months of age, there is no current convincing evidence that delaying their introduction beyond this period has a significant protective effect on the development of atopic disease regardless of whether infants are fed cow milk protein formula or human milk. It is most important that you discuss introducing possible allergenic foods with your baby’s pediatrician. The bottom line is that peanuts and eggs have not been proven safe for infants prior to 12 months or older; nor have these items in particular been proven unsafe.
Berries are good sources of vitamin C. Once they are at least 6 months old and ready to eat solid foods, babies can eat most foods, including strawberries and blueberries, as long as they are in the proper form. Young babies need their fruits pureed, while babies at least 8 months old can eat fruit cut up into fingertip-sized pieces. Wait for three days after first introducing strawberries or blueberries to your child to make sure he doesn't exhibit signs of an allergy, such as rash or swelling. If there is a family history of allergies, your child's doctor may recommend waiting until your baby is 1 year old before introducing strawberries.
Babies are not ready for solid food of any kind until they reach 4 to 6 months, the American Academy of Pediatrics states. After that age, you can start any type of solid food, including pureed berries. If you make your own berry puree, blend it smooth enough to swallow easily. Berry puree for infants should contain no solid pieces. Babies just learning to eat don't know how to chew even soft pieces of food. Remove seeds if possible, since your baby could choke on them or have difficulty swallowing them. Don't add additional foods to the berry puree or mix several type of berries.
Babies between the ages of 6 months and 12 months should eat between 1/4 cup and 1/2 cup of fruit each day. Encouraging a love of fruit in your baby may have health benefits later in his life, as eating the recommended amount of fruits and vegetables is associated with lower risk of cancer and heart disease. Wait for three days after first introducing strawberries or blueberries to your child to make sure he doesn't exhibit signs of an allergy, such as rash or swelling. If there is a family history of allergies, your child's doctor may recommend waiting until your baby is 1 year old before introducing strawberries.
One food that often comes to mind is blueberries. Blueberries are a type of fruit packed with vitamins, fiber and antioxidants and are perfectly safe to give to your baby around eight months of age. Blueberries are very healthy for your child and are great served with other foods during breakfast or lunch, or served alone as a snack. When you first introduce blueberries to your little one, make sure to either serve it alone or with another food your child has already enjoyed. Even though blueberries are not known to cause many allergic reactions, it is always best to wait three days in between feeding your child new foods.
Frank Greer, pediatrician and former chairman of the American Academy of Pediatrics' Committee on Nutrition suggests waiting until six months of age to introduce blueberries into your baby's diet. Offer blueberries independent of other new foods so you can keep an eye out for signs of an allergy. Age. Health experts and pediatricians say babies shouldn't be started on solid foods before four (or even six) months of age, and when it is time to start, they recommend you begin with infant cereal and work toward other foods.