The island of Britain was first called Samothea, until Albion came and re-named it after himself. When Albion was defeated, it did not revert to Samothea, but retained the name of Albion, until Brutus arrived and called it Britain. Holinshed's Chronicle (1) is a large six-volume work, written during the Tudor period. It contains a comprehensive history of England, Scotland and Ireland, from the earliest times to shortly before the publication date (first edition 1578, second edition in 1587).
History. Until 1707, this section deals primarily with English history. England and Wales were formally united in 1536. In 1707, when Great Britain was created by the Act of Union between Scotland and England, English history became part of British history. For the early history of Scotland and Wales, see separate articles
The Celts were a European cultural group first evident in the 7th or 8th century B.C. The Romans called them Galli and the Greeks called them Keltoi-- both meaning barbarians. Their maximum expansion was in the 3rd to 5th century B.C., when they occupied much of Europe north of the Alps (see maps). 
For the purposes of this article, Prehistoric Britain is Britain during the period between the first arrival of humans on the land mass now known as Great Britain and the start of recorded British history. Although the first had been built about 1500 BC, hillfort building peaked during the later Iron Age. There are over 2000 Iron Age hillforts known in Britain. By about 350 BC many hillforts went out of use and the remaining ones were reinforced. Pytheas was quoted as writing that the Britons were renowned wheat farmers.
The construction of the earliest earthwork sites in Britain began during the early Neolithic (c. 4400 BC – 3300 BC) in the form of long barrows used for communal burial and the first causewayed enclosures, sites which have parallels on the continent. Although the first had been built about 1500 BC, hillfort building peaked during the later Iron Age. There are over 2000 Iron Age hillforts known in Britain. By about 350 BC many hillforts went out of use and the remaining ones were reinforced. Pytheas was quoted as writing that the Britons were renowned wheat farmers.
The early settlers of Britain were called by their tribal names. Some of them were the Iceni, the Silures, the Catuvellauni, the Trinovvantes, and the Brigantes. Romans called Britain Albion, because when they were sailing to Britain they saw the White Cliffs of Dover and they thought that the land behind these cliffs is … white too. 8 people found this useful.
The Britons were an ancient Celtic people who lived on Great Britain from the Iron Age through the Roman and Sub-Roman periods. They spoke a language that is now known as Common Brittonic. The earliest evidence of the existence of the Britons and their language in historical sources dates to the Iron Age. After the Roman conquest of Britain in the 1st century, a Romano-British culture emerged, and Latin and British Vulgar Latin coexisted with Brittonic. During and after the Roman era, the Britons lived throughout Britain south of the Firth of Forth. Their relationship with the Picts, who lived north of the Firth of Forth, has been the subject of much discussion, though most scholars accept that the Pictish language was related to
The early Christians were called by different names. 1  Christians-- and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. 2  And for an entire year they met with the church and taught considerable numbers; and the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch, (Acts 11:26). 1 Christians-- and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. 2  And for an entire year they met with the church and taught considerable numbers; and the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch, (Acts 11:26).
First peoples. The first 'Britons' were an ethnically mixed group © From the arrival of the first modern humans-who were hunter-gatherers, following the retreating ice of the Ice Age northwards-to the beginning of recorded history is a period of about 100 centuries, or 400 generations. Simon James asks just who were the Britons-and did the Celts ever really exist? Uncover the fascinating ethnic and cultural history of the peoples of Briton, and assess the impact of the many invaders of Britain's shores.