· just now. Report Abuse. Any line of longitude divides Earth into halves (east and west hemispheres), and it runs vertically through both poles. The Prime Meridian is what we commonly use as 0° longitude, but the fact is you can use *any* line of longitude to do this, as long as you identify it. It divides the Earth into the Eastern and Western hemispheres. The Equator runs from east to west and divides the world into the Northern and Southern hemispheres. I think that threw those other two off...
The Hemispheres. The equator divides the earth into two halves, or hemispheres. The Northern Hemisphere is the half of the earth between the North Pole and the equator. The Southern Hemisphere is the half of the earth between the South Pole and the equator. The earth can also be broken up another way: into the Eastern Hemisphere and the Western Hemisphere. The Western Hemisphere includes North and South America, their islands, and the surrounding waters.
TWO WAYS OF DIVIDING THE EARTH The earth is called a sphere. It may be divided into halves. Each half is called a hemisphere. The earth makes one complete turn in 24 hours. It turns from the West toward the East. We know this to be true because the sun rises in the East in the morning. It sets in the West in the evening. The earth turns on an axis.
In our lesson on hemispheres, we learned that a hemisphere is half of the earth. The equator is the imaginary line that runs all the way around the world, dividing it into two equal halves, the Northern Hemisphere, north of the equator, and the Southern Hemisphere, south of the equator. Southern Hemisphere: the half of the earth that is south of the equator. Prime Meridian: an imaginary line that goes all the way around the earth, dividing it into two equal halves, an eastern half and a western half.
The equator divides the earth into halves. Half of any sphere is a 'hemisphere'. In the case of the equator,  the halves north and south of it   are called the Earth's 'northern hemisphere' and 'southern  hemisph … ere'. 3 people found this useful. Rock1998. The equator divides the earth into two halves called? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. So you're a teacher too! When you are visiting campus, what do you strive to teach others from your master class The Alchemy of Storytelling? The two halves of the heart are divided into the atria ...
The equator divides the earth into two halves, or hemispheres. The Northern Hemisphere is the half of the earth between the North Pole and the equator. The Southern Hemisphere is the half of the earth between the South Pole and the equator. The earth can also be broken up another way: into the Eastern Hemisphere and the Western Hemisphere. The Western Hemisphere includes North and South America, their islands, and the surrounding waters.
Confidence votes 133K. Senior Fellow in Electrical Engineering. Half of any sphere is a 'hemisphere'. In the case of the equator, the halves north and south of it. are called the Earth's 'northern hemisphere' and 'southern hemisphere'. it is the equator     The equator and prime meridian both split the earth into two equal halves. Also, you can put hemispheres. 8 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Most Frequently Asked Geography Questions (and Answers) A lot of people take geography for granted.
Hemispheres. We can divide the world in half, two different ways. First, lets split the world into northern and southern halves. The imaginary line that runs all the way around the world, dividing it into two equal halves, is called the equator. Any place above the equator is in the Northern Hemisphere. The imaginary line that divides the world into equal east and west halves, is called the Prime Meridian. Any place to the left of the Prime Meridian is in the Western Hemisphere, while any place to the right of the Prime Meridian is in the East
Best Answer: The line that runs from north to south is the Prime Meridian. It divides the Earth into the Eastern and Western hemispheres. The Equator runs from east to west and divides the world into the Northern and Southern hemispheres. I think that threw those other two off...
Northern Hemisphere: the half of the earth that is north of the equator. Southern Hemisphere: the half of the earth that is south of the equator. Prime Meridian: an imaginary line that goes all the way around the earth, dividing it into two equal halves, an eastern half and a western half. Eastern Hemisphere: the half of the earth that is east of the Prime Meridian