Commonly referred to as knee slapping, that one slappy thing, or just that thing by many folks, the art of modern hamboning is a derivative of its ancient ancestor, the African Juba dance and has undergone many modifications and adaptations as it has been passed down through the generations. 
Hamboning It Up | Berkeley's Unique Derique clowns with high-tech hambone. The body percussion style known as hambone—drumming your chest and thighs with your arms—was created out of necessity by African-Americans who had their drums confiscated by wary slave owners. 
verb. The act of having sexual intercourse with a hambeast (or a woman who is fat). Scott can't get a girlfriend and hasn't had sex in over three months. Because of this, he is stooping so low as hamboning some desperate land whale he meets at the club.
The Juba dance or hambone, originally known as Pattin' Juba (Giouba, Haiti: Djouba), is an American style of dance that involves stomping as well as slapping and patting the arms, legs, chest, and cheeks. Pattin' Juba would be used to keep time for other dances during a walkaround. A Juba Dance performance could include: 1  counter-clockwise turning, often with one leg raised. 2  stomping and slapping. The most famous Juba dancer was William Henry Lane, or Master Juba, one of the first black performers in the United States. It was often danced in minstrel shows, and is mentioned in songs such as Christy's New Song and Juba, the latter by Nathaniel Dett.
This article is under the scope of the Miscellaneous Cleanup Project and has yet to be cleaned up to a higher standard of quality. It may contain errors, spelling, grammar and structure issues, or inconsistent formats. Reader's discretion is advised until fixing is done. He recalls his previous statement to Mordecai about hamboning saving his life someday, and says I know what to do!. He proceeds to hambone the monster's foot until the monster drops Skips, and Skips grabs Rigby.
The hambone is a musical technique that uses the human body as an instrument. While there is a hambone song with specific beats and patterns to follow, as a musical technique, hamboning can be used in other contexts, as well. Keep reading to learn more. Hambone using your cheeks. Another common hambone technique you can incorporate into your own set of rhythms is the cheek slap, made by slapping your cheeks with the fingertips of both hands. 1  Open your mouth all the way before narrowing your lips into a narrow, rounded opening.
You can help clean up this page by correcting spelling and grammar, removing factual errors and rewriting sections to ensure they are clear and concise, and moving some elements when appropriate. Hamboning is Rigby 's proposed solution to many of his and Mordecai 's problems, though it is only referenced in The Power. He recalls his previous statement to Mordecai about hamboning saving his life someday, and says I know what to do!. He proceeds to hambone the monster's foot until the monster drops Skips, and Skips grabs Rigby.
What is hambone? Well here's an idea: The Juba dance or hambone, originally known as Pattin' Juba, is a style of dance that involves stomping as well as slapping and patting the arms, legs, chest, and cheeks. It is similar to clogging and the jig, and pattin' Juba would be used to keep time for other dances during a walkaround. 
noun. Hamboning is defined as the bone of a ham, or a style of dance that involves stomping and slapping your body. 1  An example of hamboning is when a butcher cuts thin slices of ham directly off of the bone. 1 An example of hamboning is when a butcher cuts thin slices of ham directly off of the bone. 2  An example of hamboning is a Haitian dance where dancers slap their arms and legs in time to the music while stomping around the room. 3  Link/Cite. 4  Home. 5  Dictionary Definitions