Mother cats start weaning kittens when they are four weeks old. If you're hand raising kittens because the mother died or abandoned one or all kittens, you should start introducing the kitten to solid food at this time. Many veterinarians suggest offering canned food or moistened kibble to kittens when they reach three weeks of age or weigh a pound.
I and a friend who bred BSH have both had the same experience as Missymotus-the kittens start exploring mum's food (a messy business) at 3-4 weeks and that sets them on the road to eating it. It needs to be in shallow dishes they can easily get into (I said it was messy!) and I put down several dishes of food. I always start when their little teeth first start to pop through (usually around 3 weeks). Although usually it takes about a week of walking through the food and making a mess before they actually eat it consistently. I use a pasty canned food (Fancy Feast Kitten, usually) with kitten formula mixed in to make it soupy.
Use canned food or dry kitten food mixed with water; at first, add a lot of water, and then reduce the amount of water as the kitten matures. A general schedule for kitten weaning might be: 1  Weeks 4-5: Give wet or moistened dry food, mixed with formula to form a slush. 1 Supplement with formula if the kitten is not taking to the new food, to make sure it gets enough calories. 2  Weeks 5-6: The weaning kittens should start to nibble on the kibble, slightly moistened with water. 3  Weeks 6-7: By now, the kitten weaning process is complete, and they should be eating all solid food by week seven.
Mine start eating on their own, usually at around 3 weeks they start to taste mums food. I always feed mum in the kitten pen so they grow up watching her (same with litter tray). Have never watered down food, the kittens easily explore mums plate of raw meat or wet food and start tasting. Reply. I always start when their little teeth first start to pop through (usually around 3 weeks). Although usually it takes about a week of walking through the food and making a mess before they actually eat it consistently. I use a pasty canned food (Fancy Feast Kitten, usually) with kitten formula mixed in to make it soupy.
As the kitten gets accustomed to eating, gradually decrease the amount of milk replacer you add, while slowly increasing the amount of kitten food. By five to six weeks, he should be eating only lightly moistened food. Now you can start to leave out small amounts of dry food and fresh water at all times. By eight to 10 weeks, kittens should be accustomed to eating unmoistened kitten food. 
Normally, the kitten weaning process begins at about four weeks of age. “With mom, they’ll start to try to eat her food, and she’ll push them away from her,” says Benson. But if you’re weaning a kitten that has been orphaned, you can start a little earlier, between three and four weeks. 1 Supplement with formula if the kitten is not taking to the new food, to make sure it gets enough calories. 2  Weeks 5-6: The weaning kittens should start to nibble on the kibble, slightly moistened with water. 3  Weeks 6-7: By now, the kitten weaning process is complete, and they should be eating all solid food by week seven.
Determine when to wean your kitten. The weaning process begins when kittens are around four weeks old. For most kittens, this process is usually completed when they reach eight to ten weeks old. Once a kitten has opened its eyes, is able to focus, and can walk steadily, you can begin the process. 1  At around 10 - 14 days, a kitten's eyes and ears start to open.
Cat Food: Kittens should be feeding solely on kitten food by 10 weeks at the latest. Type of food: During this time, kittens develop their food preferences which will stay with them for life. Dry or canned cat food is up to you. Only in special circumstances decided by your vet should you give a kitten supplements. 
1 Weeks 4-5: Give wet or moistened dry food, mixed with formula to form a slush. 2  Supplement with formula if the kitten is not taking to the new food, to make sure it gets enough calories. 3  Weeks 5-6: The weaning kittens should start to nibble on the kibble, slightly moistened with water. 1 Supplement with formula if the kitten is not taking to the new food, to make sure it gets enough calories. 2  Weeks 5-6: The weaning kittens should start to nibble on the kibble, slightly moistened with water. 3  Weeks 6-7: By now, the kitten weaning process is complete, and they should be eating all solid food by week seven.