Diabetes mellitus type 2 (formerly noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) or adult-onset diabetes) is a metabolic disorder that is characterized by hyperglycemia (high blood sugar) in the context of insulin resistance and relative lack of insulin. 
1 People with diabetes either do not produce enough insulin (type 1 diabetes) or cannot use insulin properly (type 2 diabetes), or both (which occurs with several forms of diabetes). 2  In diabetes, glucose in the blood cannot move efficiently into cells, so blood glucose levels remain high. 1 People with type 2 diabetes can produce insulin, but the body is not able to use the insulin effectively. 2  Symptoms of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes include. 3  excessive thirst, 4  excessive hunger, 5  weight loss, 6  fatigue, and. 7  excessive urination.
Diabetes mellitus refers to a group of diseases that affect how your body uses blood sugar (glucose). Glucose is vital to your health because it's an important source of energy for the cells that make up your muscles and tissues. It's also your brain's main source of fuel. 
1 The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 2  Former names for these conditions were insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetes, or juvenile onset and adult onset diabetes. 1 Insulin produced by the pancreas lowers blood glucose. 2  Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 3  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 4
Diabetes facts. 1  Diabetes is a chronic condition associated with abnormally high levels of sugar (glucose) in the blood. 2  Insulin produced by the pancreas lowers blood glucose. 3  Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 4  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 1 Insulin produced by the pancreas lowers blood glucose. 2  Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 3  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 4  Former names for these conditions were insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetes, or juvenile onset and adult onset diabetes.
Diabetes mellitus (DM), commonly referred to as diabetes, is a group of metabolic diseases in which there are high blood sugar levels over a prolonged period. Symptoms of high blood sugar include frequent urination, increased thirst, and increased hunger. If left untreated, diabetes can cause many complications. Type 1 diabetes mellitus is characterized by loss of the insulin-producing beta cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas, leading to insulin deficiency. This type can be further classified as immune-mediated or idiopathic.
Diabetes (Diabetes Mellitus). A disease in which the body does not control the amount of glucose (a type of sugar) in the blood and the kidneys make a large amount of urine. This disease occurs when the body does not make enough insulin or does not use it the way it should. Oral anti‐diabetic agents for women with pre‐existing diabetes mellitus, impaired glucose tolerance or previous gestational diabetes mellitus. Pregnant women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes are at a greater risk of adverse outcomes in pregnancy, such as miscarriage or large babies and preterm birth.
1 Diabetes is a chronic condition associated with abnormally high levels of sugar (glucose) in the blood. 2  Insulin produced by the pancreas lowers blood glucose. 3  Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 4  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 1 Insulin produced by the pancreas lowers blood glucose. 2  Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 3  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 4  Former names for these conditions were insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetes, or juvenile onset and adult onset diabetes.
1 Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 2  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 3  Former names for these conditions were insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetes, or juvenile onset and adult onset diabetes. 1 Insulin produced by the pancreas lowers blood glucose. 2  Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 3  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 4
Diabetes mellitus (commonly referred to as diabetes) is a disease of the pancreas, an organ behind your stomach that produces the hormone insulin. Insulin helps the body use food for energy. 1 People with type 1 diabetes must use insulin injections to control their blood glucose. 2  Type 1 is the most common form of diabetes in people under age 20-30, but it can occur at any age. 3  Ten percent of people with diabetes are diagnosed with type 1.