There are many ways in which the environment effects people. The environment in a big city is quite different from the environment in the natural world. In the city there are … many pollutants and toxins that can cause disease. People pollute by driving, cars emissions from the engine have a harmful affect on the society. Also cutting down trees have a ripple affect. It takes away animals homes which … could lead to extinction. There are many others as well. Mining can also affect the environment.
People have figured out ways of dealing with extreme heat and cold, depending on where they live. In different parts of the world, people wear different clothes, and live in different kinds of houses, and eat different foods—a lot of this is determined by the environment. 
Climate influences the growth of crops, thus affecting the availability and kind of food we eat. Fluctuations in weather (e.g. dry spells, wet spells) also affect crops. Weather affects what clothes we wear, and soon. I can't think of anything we do that weather doesn't have a strong effect on. Weather sometimes has some less obvious affects on the way we live, too. For instance, weather patterns control the ocean as well as the land. During storms, we see bigger waves that carry away more sand from our beaches and can destroy kelp forests, washing huge mats of drift kelp onto the beaches.
How often do you think about the clothes you're wearing or its impact on the people who make it? asked Matt Reynolds, President and Co-Founder of INDIGENOUS, an organic and fair trade fashion company, at a recent eco fashion talk in San Francisco. 
Below are just a few examples of how the environment can impact you. 1  The environment can facilitate or discourage interactions among people (and the subsequent benefits of social support). 2  For example, an inviting space with comfortable chairs and privacy can encourage a family to stay and visit with a patient. 1
Then they were tested for sustained attention. Again, the group that wore the doctor’s coat showed the greatest improvement in attention. You have to wear the coat, see it on your body and feel it on your skin for it to influence your psychological processes, Dr. Galinsky said. Clothes invade the body and brain, putting the wearer into a different psychological state, he said. Continue reading the main story. If you wear a white coat that you believe belongs to a doctor, your ability to pay attention increases sharply. But if you wear the same white coat believing it belongs to a painter, you will show no such improvement. So scientists report after studying a phenomenon they call enclothed cognition: the effects of clothing on cognitive processes
We may also find a very different climate, as we travel around the world. This is one reason why communities around the world have very different lifestyles, or ways of living. People adapt, or get used to, their environment and weather. They can live in places that might seem very harsh to us. In this lesson we will explore some different communities around the world. One of the reasons for this is because of the very different environments and climates in which people live. We have learned that people must adapt to their environment and climate, in order to survive.
According to 99U, it's not about dressing one specific way though, it's about considering your audience and using that to your advantage. We know about some of the science behind how your clothing choices affect how people view you, and that extends to the office dynamics as well. For example, if you want to appear persuasive and authoritative at Facebook, you probably shouldn't wear a tuxedo because you'll just get laughed at. 
Social psychology is the study of individuals within a social context. According to psychologist Gordon Allport (1985) , the interests of social psychology are centered on answering questions about why people think, feel, and act the way that they do as shaped by the actual, implied, or imaged presence of others. The first has a focus on the psychology of dress addressing topics that remain of interest such as why do we wear clothing, what roles does clothing play in our perception of others, and how does clothing exert an influence on the wearer.