Roast the pork for 10 minutes: Set the pork in the pan. (It's fine if your pork tenderloin is a little long for the pan; just bend it to fit as we did here.) Return the pan to the oven. Roast for 10 minutes. Flip the pork, reduce the heat, and roast another 10 to 15 minutes: Flip the pork to the other side.
With a pork tenderloin: Season the meat, sear all sides in a very hot pan, and then finish in the oven at 350째F (175째C) degrees until the internal temp. hits 145째F (63째C). Then let it sit for 10 minutes, and cut 'er up. If you need it done faster, a higher oven temp will accomplish this, but may compromise quality. 
The internal temperature of the pork roast should between 145 and 160 degrees. Do not overcook the pork, it will become dry. Also make sure you allow the pork loin roast for about 10 minutes before serving. There is no need to cover the roast with foil or a lid while it is cooking; this is a dry roasting technique. 
20 minutes a pound. Preheat an oven to 400 degrees for the first 10 minutes, and then down to 325 for the remaining period. You can put it in an oven roaster bag or cover with foil but it is unnecessary. Tenderloin is done when the juices run clear when pricked with a fork. 
In general, cooking the pork tenderloin over high heat for about 20 to 27 minutes per pound brings it to the required 145 F while preserving its inner juiciness. Whether pan-cooking the tenderloin on a stovetop, broiling it in an oven or cooking it on an indoor electric grill, the technique remains the same. In the past, cooks recommended cooking pork until it became white and opaque throughout. This can dry out a lean cut like pork tenderloin. Store fresh pork tenderloin for 3 to 5 days in the refrigerator or in the freezer for 4 to 6 months.
Cook Pork Tenderloin to 145 F. According to the USDA, pork tenderloin must be cooked to a minimum internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit. After cooking, remove the meat from the heat and rest it for at least 3 minutes, which raises its temperature a bit more. In the past, cooks recommended cooking pork until it became white and opaque throughout. This can dry out a lean cut like pork tenderloin. Store fresh pork tenderloin for 3 to 5 days in the refrigerator or in the freezer for 4 to 6 months.
1 Place pork tenderloin in roasting pan. 2  Roast for 30 minutes. 3  Turn the pork over and roast for another 25 minutes. 4  The pork tenderloin is ready when the internal temperature reaches 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius). 1 Roast for 30 minutes. 2  Turn the pork over and roast for another 25 minutes. 3  The pork tenderloin is ready when the internal temperature reaches 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius). 4  Remove the pork from the oven and allow to rest for 10 minutes before serving.
Up to 25 Minutes Per Pound in the Oven. Roasting the pork tenderloin most likely results in a juicy and flavorful roast when started with a quick pan sear. Preheat the oven to 450 F. Heat a shallow skillet over high heat and add a drizzle of fat such as olive oil or butter. In the past, cooks recommended cooking pork until it became white and opaque throughout. This can dry out a lean cut like pork tenderloin. Store fresh pork tenderloin for 3 to 5 days in the refrigerator or in the freezer for 4 to 6 months.
1 Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 2  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 4  Remove roast to a platter. 
Another reason NEVER to cook pork loin roasts by the pound (like 20 minutes per lb) is because heavier pork loin roasts do not take much more time than lighter ones. The thickness of most loin roasts are around the same. It is the length of the roast that changes. Ok, i bought one of those huge, long pork loins, and cut it in half for two meals. This half i brined for 8 hours in a mixture of salt, onion, garlic, chicken broth, peppercorns, bay leaves, and some parsley. I then washed it off, and am letting it marinate in a mixture of honey mustard, pepper, garlic, olive oil,...