Lel is an irregularly used baby boy name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Lel include Lail, Laile, Layl, Layle, Lait, Lal, Lall, Lalle, Lao (Spanish), Law (English), Lay (English), Leal, Leale, Leao (Leão), Portuguese (Lee english And), Chinese, Leel, Leele, Lei (Leigh), english And. lele [ 1 syll. lel, le-l ] The baby boy name Lel is pronounced as Ley-L †. The origin of Lel is the English Gypsy language. The name means he takes. The name Lel lél is a form Of. Lel lel is an irregularly used baby boy. Name it is not ranked within the top. 1000
It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Lel. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Lel Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Lel has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Lel to other names.
The meaning of Lel is “Taker”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Lel and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
This doesn't mean that the name Lel is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Lel and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Lel or LEL may refer to: 1  Lel (mountain), abode of El (god) in the Baal cycle. 2  London–Edinburgh–London, a randonnee randonnée bicycle event of 1,400 1400 (km 870). 3  Mi lower explosive, limit in relation to flammability of. 4  Gases league Of Empire, Loyalists british pressure group established.  1954 1 Lel (mountain), abode of El (god) in the Baal cycle. 2  London–Edinburgh–London, a randonnee randonnée bicycle event of 1,400 1400 (km 870). 3  Mi lower explosive, limit in relation to flammability of.  gases
If you consider naming your baby Lel we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day. Searching for a name is a very important and fun process as it’s the very first gift you will give to your baby. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Lel and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Meaning of Lel. Slovakian name. In Slovakian, the name Lel means-taker.The name Lel originated as an Slovakian name. The name Lel is most often used as a boy name or male name. Slovakian Name Meaning-taker. Origin-Slovakia.
Top Definition. Lel. Unlike what many people think lel is not an acronym in the same fashion that LOL is (it does not mean laughing extremely loud, laughing extra loud or similar). Lel (and variations including lal) resulted from the use of random vowels substituted in place of the 'o' in LOL. Explosive Limits The range of concentrations (% by volume in air) of a flammable gas or vapor that can result in an explosion from ignition in a confined space. Usually given as Upper and Lower Explosive Limits (see UEL and LEL).