Report Abuse. I am assuming that your driver and 3 wood have graphite shafts. Comparing the flex in your irons to your woods is not going to add up. A stiff graphite shaft might flex as much as a regular steel shaft, it depends on the type of shaft, torque, flex point. If you are considering changing your shafts in you irons, go to your local pro shop and have the club fitter examine your swing and performance of your irons. Then get the new shafts fitted for you. Best Answer: Shaft flex makes all the difference in the world. It all depends on your swing speed. If you I hit x stiff. I have a higher swing speed but now that Im older with a slower swing speed, I lose a little distance, when I do mishit the ball I never have a duck hook or slice.
Stumble. Post. Share. If you're a golf newbie, you'll want to learn the difference between steel and graphite shafts. Watch this About.com video to see what that difference is. Show transcript Hide transcript. 
Getting to hit that many different shafts, all with the exact same head, really helps you to appreciate how much difference the shaft makes. From one to the next, the balance may be totally different. The bend profile, stiffness, weight, and torque make a huge difference as well. Fujikura offered to have me fit for any shaft in their line up, so I brought a driver that I liked, but no longer fit me, to see if we could breathe new life into it. The results that I saw, and will share with you, prove once again how important it is to be fit and what a vital role the shaft plays in the golf club.
The only difference for the golfer will be feel.. Of course, if an expensive shaft construction translates into a better feel, that harmony could lead you to make better swings more often. Therefore, focus on performance, not fashion. TRUE TEMPER has produced a steel shaft lighter than most graphite shafts, the 75-gram GS75. The blended graphite/steel Players Spec from AEROTECH ascends in mass from long iron to short iron. Also, ALDILA is developing an iron shaft based on its popular VS Proto shaft.
The major negative of graphite shafts is that they need looked after more than steel shafts. Make sure you have extra long headcovers on woods or padded dividers in your golf bag so that the paint on the graphite shaft does not get worn off, as this will negatively affect the performance of the shaft. Flexes in Rifle shafts can also be more exactly tailored for the average golfer as they use decimals to meaure stiffness (eg 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, etc). The stepless design technology eliminates the energy-robbing steps' found on most other steel shafts, which Rifle manufacturers claim provides greater accuracy.
The slower your swing speed the more flex you need in the shaft to make up distance. The higher your swing speed, the more stiffness you need in the shaft to get the club head to the impact area at the precise bottom of the swing. The flex does make a difference, If you are looking to purchase new clubs, get them fitted to your swing. It isn't every day that one invests in new equipment. 
The average steel shaft today weighs between 115 grams to 125 grams (4.0 to 4.4 ounces). Put that together with a typical 195-gram (6.9-ounce) driver head and a normal 50-gram (1.75-ounce) grip and you have a total weight for the driver of some 365 grams (12.9 ounces). Most graphite shafts for drivers today are made to a weight of around 65-70 grams. Assemble that with the driver head and the grip and the total weight of a typical graphite shaft driver will be about 11 ounces
(January 2011). The shaft of a golf club is the long, tapered tube which connects the golfer’s hands to the club head. While hundreds of different designs exist, the primary purpose of the golf shaft remains the same-to provide the player with a way to generate centrifugal force in order to effectively strike the ball. It all comes down to the shaft. The shaft is 80 percent of the club and can improve your distance by 20 yard. It is important to get the correct fitting in order for you to see the results you want. Fun Fact: An English golfer Arthur Benson Shot 76 with a cricket bat on a 6,547 yard golf course in 1939.