Photo by: 3drenderings. Neurotransmitters are chemical messengers produced by the nervous systems of higher organisms in order to relay a nerve impulse from one cell to another cell. The two cells may be nerve cells, also called neurons, or one of the cells may be a different type, such as a muscle or gland cell. Neurotransmitters are formed in a presynaptic neuron and stored in small membrane-bound sacks, called vesicles, inside this neuron. When this neuron is activated, these intracellular vesicles fuse with the cell membrane and release their contents into the synapse, a process called exocytosis.
Neurotransmitters are endogenous chemicals that enable neurotransmission. They transmit signals across a chemical synapse, such as in a neuromuscular junction, from one neuron (nerve cell) to another target neuron, muscle cell, or gland cell. 1 Enzyme degradation – special chemicals called enzymes break it down. 2  Reuptake – re-absorption of a neurotransmitter into the neuron. 3  Transporters, or membrane transport proteins, pump neurotransmitters from the synaptic cleft back into axon terminals (the presynaptic neuron) where they are stored.
1 Reuptake – re-absorption of a neurotransmitter into the neuron. 2  Transporters, or membrane transport proteins, pump neurotransmitters from the synaptic cleft back into axon terminals (the presynaptic neuron) where they are stored. 1 Enzyme degradation – special chemicals called enzymes break it down. 2  Reuptake – re-absorption of a neurotransmitter into the neuron. 3
Transport and Release of Neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters are made in the cell body of the neuron and then transported down the axon to the axon terminal. Molecules of neurotransmitters are stored in small packages called vesicles (see the picture on the right). Neurotransmitters then cross the synapse where they may be accepted by the next neuron at a specialized site called a receptor. The action that follows activation of a receptor site may be either depolarization (an excitatory postsynaptic potential) or hyperpolarization (an inhibitory postsynaptic potential).
Each neurotransmitter is made from a specific amino acid through a series of steps that require specific nutrients (called cofactors). Anxiety control – using neurotransmitter system priority to find a lasting solution. In addition, other neurotransmitter systems are partially controlled by the serotonin-catecholamine systems. For example, the GABA-glutamate neurotransmitter system is associated with control of anxiety and panic attacks.
Neurotransmitters and Neuroactive Peptides. Communication of information between neurons is accomplished by movement of chemicals across a small gap called the synapse. Chemicals, called neurotransmitters, are released from one neuron at the presynaptic nerve terminal. Neurotransmitters then cross the synapse where they may be accepted by the next neuron at a specialized site called a receptor. The action that follows activation of a receptor site may be either depolarization (an excitatory postsynaptic potential) or hyperpolarization (an inhibitory postsynaptic potential).
Dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine are a group of neurotransmitters called catecholamines. Norepinephrine is also called noradrenalin and epinephrine is also called adrenalin. Each of these neurotransmitters is produced in a step-by-step fashion by a different enzyme. Neurotransmitters then cross the synapse where they may be accepted by the next neuron at a specialized site called a receptor. The action that follows activation of a receptor site may be either depolarization (an excitatory postsynaptic potential) or hyperpolarization (an inhibitory postsynaptic potential).
Neurotransmitters are chemical messengers that coordinate the transmission of signals from one nerve cell (neuron) to the next. 