Directions. 1  In a small saucepan, combine the preserves, mustard, lemon juice and cinnamon. 2  Grill, uncovered, over medium heat for 8-10 minutes on each side, brushing with glaze during the last few minutes of grilling. 1 Set glaze aside. 2  Score edges of ham. 3  Grill, uncovered, over medium heat for 8-10 minutes on each side, brushing with glaze during the last few minutes of grilling. 4  Yield: 6 servings.
1 Cook ham steak in a large skillet over medium heat until browned, 3 to 4 minutes per side. 2  Drain and remove ham. 3  Heat butter in the same skillet until melted; stir in brown sugar. 1 Drain and remove ham. 2  Heat butter in the same skillet until melted; stir in brown sugar. 3  Return ham to skillet and cook over medium-low heat until heated through and brown sugar is dissolved, turning steak often, about 10 minutes.
Heat an indoor grill to medium-high heat. Place the ham 4 to 6 inches away from the coals on an outdoor grill. Cook the ham for approximately 3 minutes on each side without glaze, if you plan to add a glaze. Place on the grill and flip only once, letting each side cook for 3 minutes. Flip the steak the first time, then add the glaze to the cooked side. Adding a ham steak to a summer barbecue or winter cook-in is a tasty way to add variety to your meals. Grilling ham is quick and easy, but you can dry out a beautiful piece of meat if you do it incorrectly. Prepping your meat and grill are keys to making sure your ham stays moist and delicious
1 In a small saucepan, combine the preserves, mustard, lemon juice and cinnamon. 2  Cook and stir over low heat for 2-3 minutes. 3  Set glaze aside. 4  Score edges of ham. 5  Grill, uncovered, over medium heat for 8-10 minutes on each side, brushing with glaze during the last few minutes of grilling. 6  Yield: 6 servings. 1 Set glaze aside. 2  Score edges of ham. 3  Grill, uncovered, over medium heat for 8-10 minutes on each side, brushing with glaze during the last few minutes of grilling. 4
1 Mix together the remaining ingredients for the glaze. 2  BBQ about 6 from heat source, medium-high heat cook on both sides for about 3 minutes each side before basting with glaze Turn frequently basting each time with the glaze total cooking time appr 10-12 minutes. 3  Watch that the steak does not burn. 1 BBQ about 6 from heat source, medium-high heat cook on both sides for about 3 minutes each side before basting with glaze Turn frequently basting each time with the glaze total cooking time appr 10-12 minutes. 2  Watch that the steak does not burn.
Directions. 1  In a small saucepan, combine the preserves, mustard, lemon juice and cinnamon. 2  Cook and stir over low heat for 2-3 minutes. 3  Set glaze aside. 4  Score edges of ham. 5  Grill, uncovered, over medium heat for 8-10 minutes on each side, brushing with glaze during the last few minutes of grilling. 6  Yield: 6 servings. 1 Set glaze aside. 2  Score edges of ham. 3  Grill, uncovered, over medium heat for 8-10 minutes on each side, brushing with glaze during the last few minutes of grilling. 4
Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Cook ham steak in a large skillet over medium heat until browned, 3 to 4 minutes per side. 2  Drain and remove ham. 3  Heat butter in the same skillet until melted; stir in brown sugar. 1 Drain and remove ham. 2  Heat butter in the same skillet until melted; stir in brown sugar. 3  Return ham to skillet and cook over medium-low heat until heated through and brown sugar is dissolved, turning steak often, about 10 minutes.
Instructions. Prepare the grill for direct cooking over medium heat (350° to 450°F). In a small bowl combine the rub ingredients. Brush both sides of the ham steak with the butter and season evenly with the rub, pressing the spices into the meat. Brush the cooking grates clean. Grill the ham steak over direct medium heat, with the lid closed as much as possible, until the surface is nicely browned, 12 to 15 minutes, turning once or twice. 