191 Coal Landing Road, Stafford County, Virginia. Welcome to Government Island. This 17-acre historic site is an American quarry originally named Brent’s Island or Wiggington’s Island. As early as 1694, stone was quarried from this site for use as architectural trim in Colonial America. 
Government Island is a scenic heritage trail, and also on the National Register of Historic Places and the Virginia Landmarks Register. Located in the middle of Stafford I-95 exit 140. Hours: Mid-March through October 31: Monday-Sunday, 8 am – 8 pm; November 1 through Mid-March: Monday-Sunday, 8 am - 5:30 pm. Located in the middle of Stafford I-95 exit 140, Visit the quarry where the U.S. Government's most famous buildings were born.
Campsite of November 3, 1805 ... Government Island ... Government Island, and two smaller islands (Lemon and McGuire) are located in the center of the Columbia River, between River Mile (RM) 111.5 and River Mile (RM) 118. Three miles downstream lies Hayden Island and just upstream is Lady Island. The downstream tip of Government Island (downstream of the Interstate 205 Bridge) is Lemon Island, and two smaller islands are on the north side of Lemon Island. The larger (0.8-miles in length) is referred to as Tri-Club Island, and the smaller is unnamed.
Government Island, a historic 18th and 19th century quarry site provided Aquia sandstone for the construction of the U.S. Capitol and the White House and other historic buildings in Washington, D.C. Today this 17-acre park is a historic scenic nature preserve and archaeological site. Located in the middle of Stafford I-95 exit 140, Visit the quarry where the U.S. Government's most famous buildings were born.
Map of Government Island. Government Island is a 1,760-acre (7 km 2) island in the Columbia River north of Portland, in Multnomah County, in the U.S. state of Oregon. Though Interstate 205 passes over it on the Glenn L. Jackson Memorial Bridge, access to the island is only by boat. (Although there is a city controlled locked gate in the 205 fence.) Government Island is known for its great blue heron colony and the Government Island State Recreation Area (primitive camping, beaches).
Government Island. This large 1,760-acre island in the Columbia River provides a variety of wildlife habitats with stands of willow, ash, and cottonwood interspersed among grasslands, ponds, and lakes. Location: On the Columbia River just west of I-205, near the Portland Airport. Description: This large 1,760-acre island provides a variety of wildlife habitats with stands of willow, ash, and cottonwood interspersed among grasslands, ponds, and lakes.
Government Island (in the Columbia River northeast of Portland) is a series of islands accessible by boat only. There are two docks and a floating tie-up on the north side of the main island. There are trails along the north side of Lemon and Government Islands. The interior is accessible by permit only. The interior of the island is still used as a cattle ranch and also contains protected natural areas. Please secure your valuable when enjoying our parks.
Government Island www.tourstaffordva.com/things-to-do/details/government-island. Located in the middle of Stafford I-95 exit 140, Visit the quarry where the U.S. Government's most famous buildings were born. Government Island is a scenic heritage trail, and also on the National Register of Historic Places and the Virginia Landmarks Register. Located in the middle of Stafford I-95 exit 140.