Symptoms of bipolar disorder are described below. Symptoms of mania or a manic episode include: Symptoms of depression or a depressive episode include: Mood Changes. 1  A long period of feeling high, or an overly happy or outgoing mood. 2  Extreme irritability.
Bipolar disorder is a mental illness marked by extreme shifts in mood ranging from a manic to a depressive state. Bipolar disorder is also called bipolar disease or manic depression. A person with mania will feel excited, impulsive, euphoric, and full of energy. He or she might engage in risky or unhealthy behavior. Drug use, spending sprees, and impulsive or unprotected sex are common during manic episodes. Rapid-Cycling Bipolar Disorder. This type of bipolar disorder causes rapid changes in mood. Sometimes a patient may have four or more episodes of major depression, mania, hypomania, or mixed symptoms within a year. Some people experience more than one episode in a week or even within one day.
Symptoms. A person with bipolar disorder may have distinct manic or depressed states. A person with mixed episodes experiences both extremes simultaneously or in rapid sequence. Severe bipolar episodes of mania or depression may also include psychotic symptoms such as hallucinations or delusions. Usually, these psychotic symptoms mirror a person’s extreme mood. Someone who is manic might believe he has special powers and may display risky behavior. Mania. To be diagnosed with bipolar disorder, a person must have experienced mania or hypomania. Hypomania is a milder form of mania that doesn't include psychotic episodes. People with hypomania can often function normally in social situations or at work.
The symptoms for bipolar disorder can vary widely from person to person. It is important to understand that this disorder is marked by both depression and mania-without one of these two conditions, the diagnosis may be for a different mood disorder. 1. Depression: Suicidal Thoughts. One of the most serious symptoms of bipolar disorder is the possibility for suicidal thoughts. In the depression phase, the sufferer may feel so down on themselves that they contemplate suicide. Even when diagnosed and placed on medication, suicidal thoughts may continue.
Bipolar disorder (also known as “manic depression”) is a disorder that is often not recognized or misdiagnosed as simply depression by the patient, relatives, friends, and even physicians. An early sign of bipolar disorder may be hypomania — a state in which the person shows a high level of energy, excessive moodiness or irritability, and impulsive or reckless behavior for at least 4 days.
A. A. A. Bipolar mania, hypomania, and depression are symptoms of bipolar disorder. The dramatic mood episodes of bipolar disorder do not follow a set pattern -- depression does not always follow mania. If you have periods of unusually high energy and high mood along with three or more of the following mania symptoms most of the day -- nearly every day -- for one week or longer, you may be having a manic episode of bipolar disorder :
In both Bipolar I and II disorders, a person can have a mood episode (i.e., primarily manic or depressed) with mixed features, wherein a manic/hypomanic episode there are significant depressive symptoms, and in a depressive episode there are some manic/hypomanic symptoms. An early sign of bipolar disorder may be hypomania — a state in which the person shows a high level of energy, excessive moodiness or irritability, and impulsive or reckless behavior for at least 4 days.
Manic Depression. Bipolar disorder, also known as manic depression, is a chronically recurring condition involving moods that swing between the highs of mania and the lows of depression. While the depression of bipolar disorder can resist treatment, mood swings and recurrences can often be delayed or prevented with a mood stabilizer, on it's own or combined with other drugs.
Bipolar disorder, also known as bipolar affective disorder and manic-depressive illness, is a mental disorder characterized by periods of elevated mood and periods of depression. The elevated mood is significant and is known as mania or hypomania depending on the severity or whether there is psychosis. It is divided into bipolar I disorder if there is at least one manic episode and bipolar II disorder if there are at least one hypomanic episode and one major depressive episode. In those with less severe symptoms of a prolonged duration the condition cyclothymic disorder may be present.