After completing your education requirements and earning a doctorate degree, you will continue your training with an internship, have two years of practice and then you will be required to take a state exam to become a licensed psychologist. To become a licensed psychologist you will also need to earn a doctorate degree. Choosing the best psychology schools to attend for earning graduate degrees, will be beneficial in both getting an education that is geared toward psychology and it will help when you begin your search for employment.
1 Clinical Psychologist: Doctorate Degree in Psychology (4 to 7 years of graduate school). 2  Industrial-Organizational Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school). 3  Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended. To determine how long it will take you to become a psychologist, look into the specifics of the career you are interested in. As requirements vary by state, you’ll want to research your state’s licensing requirements before applying to any graduate program.
Best Answer: Yes, you need a doctorate degree. So, after 4 years undergraduate studies, you will spend another 4 to 5 years obtaining your doctorate, and perhaps another 2 years in advanced training/internship. You are looking at about 10 to 11 years.
But here is a general timeline. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. The type of doctoral degree you choose––either a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD)––will depend on your career goals. Many states also require post-doctoral training equivalent to about 1 year of work.
Confidence votes 110. A clinical psychologist holds a doctorate such as a Ph.D. or Psy.D. (Doctor of Psychology) and has a state license in order to practice. Clinically oriented programs are usually about 5 years in length (4 years of classes and 1 year of full time internship), post bachelor's degree, that is! 18 months to 2 years for your masters given your field of study. Usually 4 years for your Ph.D, it could take less or longer, the 4 years greatly depends on the students ability to dedicate time to study.
Degree, 4 years to get their Bach., 6 years to get their Mast. Degree and 8 years for their PHD. 4 years for a B.A or B.S degree, given the time dedicated toward the degree, it can be completed much sooner. 18 months to 2 years for your masters given your field of study. Usually 4 years for your Ph.D, it could take less or longer, the 4 years greatly depends on the students ability to dedicate time to study. So, under normal circumstances anywhere from 8 to 10 years for your Doctorate egree in Psychology
Then, most state licensing boards require a doctorate (4 to 7 years). The type of doctoral degree you choose––either a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD)––will depend on your career goals. Many states also require post-doctoral training equivalent to about 1 year of work.
Master's Degree (2 to 3 Years). A master's degree will give you a broad introduction to the field of psychology. You can then use your electives to focus your study in a particular field. The type of doctoral degree you choose––either a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD)––will depend on your career goals. Many states also require post-doctoral training equivalent to about 1 year of work.
The Path to Becoming a Psychologist. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. The type of doctoral degree you choose––either a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD)––will depend on your career goals. Many states also require post-doctoral training equivalent to about 1 year of work.
The answer really depends on the profession as well as the specialty you want to work in. For example, becoming a school psychologist can take a little as two years of graduate-level education, and only requires a master’s degree. On the other hand, if you want to become a child psychologist you will need to earn a doctorate degree, which can require up to seven additional years of psychologist schooling. To determine how long it will take you to become a psychologist, look into the specifics of the career you are interested in. As requirements vary by state, you’ll want to research your state’s licensing requirements before applying to any graduate program.