Interchange fee is a term used in the payment card industry to describe a fee paid between banks for the acceptance of card based transactions. About $1.75 would go to the card issuing bank (defined as interchange), $0.18 would go to Visa or MasterCard association (defined as assessments), and the remaining $0.07 would go to the retailer's merchant account provider. If a credit card displays a Visa logo, Visa will get the $0.18, likewise with MasterCard.
1 Learning about Interchange will give you the knowledge you need to negotiate your best merchant rates. 2  Interchange is the largest component of your discount rate pricing. 3  Interchange fees are paid to cardholder-issuing banks and these rates are set by MasterCard and Visa card associations and the Federal Reserve. 1 We quote your Merchant Rates without monthly minimum fees, batch fees, AVS fees, annual fees, non-qualified surcharge fees, and other hidden fees. 2  Plus Interchange is returned to you on cardholder credits further lowering your bottom line costs.
In a credit card or debit card transaction, the card-issuing bank in a payment transaction deducts the interchange fee from the amount it pays the acquiring bank that handles a credit or debit card transaction for a merchant. About $1.75 would go to the card issuing bank (defined as interchange), $0.18 would go to Visa or MasterCard association (defined as assessments), and the remaining $0.07 would go to the retailer's merchant account provider. If a credit card displays a Visa logo, Visa will get the $0.18, likewise with MasterCard.
Interchange fees are the single largest component of your discount rate pricing. Simply put, Interchange fees are paid by merchant-acquiring banks to cardholder-issuing banks to cover the cost to convert a charge on a cardholder's card to a cash deposit in a merchant's business checking account.
Interchange plus rates are the most transparent form of pricing because the provider's markup is consistent and is always added to actual interchange rates and fees. A common comparison is that of interchange and tiered merchant account rates. On an interchange plus pricing model, a fixed markup in the form of a percentage (or basis points) is added to the actual interchange rate for a given transaction.
Interchange is a small fee paid by a merchant’s bank (acquirer) to a cardholder’s bank (issuer) to compensate the issuer for the benefits merchants receive when they accept electronic payments. 
Interchange plus pricing for credit card acceptance is where a merchant service provider's fee is added to Visa, MasterCard or Discover's actual rate for each transaction. On an interchange plus pricing model, a fixed markup in the form of a percentage (or basis points) is added to the actual interchange rate for a given
Interchange plus pricing means that the provider charges a set fee — say 0.10 percent + $0.05 — over the interchange rate (the fees that go to the bank that issued the card used to purchase the goods and services) and the pass-through fees (the fees charged by the card companies). 
1 Interchange is the largest component of your discount rate pricing. 2  Interchange fees are paid to cardholder-issuing banks and these rates are set by MasterCard and Visa card associations and the Federal Reserve. 1 We quote your Merchant Rates without monthly minimum fees, batch fees, AVS fees, annual fees, non-qualified surcharge fees, and other hidden fees. 2  Plus Interchange is returned to you on cardholder credits further lowering your bottom line costs.
It’s the fairest model out there. Interchange-plus pricing works by adding a constant, flat margin on top of Interchange. So typically, Interchange-plus pricing models will also be written in the two component format, with a percentage fee and per-transaction fee above Interchange. This isn't how everyone operates. This is a lot different than many other models out there. Most merchant service providers don’t disclose the Interchange rates. Instead, they only disclose the rate at which you’re assessed – meaning there is a lot of incentive to overcharge for services.