In the stomach, food tends to hang around in the stomach for different time scales depending on a variety of factors including the amount of food you have consumed, how much fat it contains, and also the acidity of the stomach. However, all food should have left the stomach within 2 to 4 hours. (approx. time spent in stomach before emptying) Liquid: Water-when stomach is empty, leaves immediately and goes into intestines, Juices-Fruit vegetables, vegetable broth - 15 to 20 minutes. Semi-liquid (blended salad, vegetables or fruits) - 20 to 30 min. Fruits: Watermelon - 20 min.digestion time.
Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food.
Confidence votes 507. It takes anywhere from 1 to 3 hours for food to completely exit the stomach, depending on how much food you and what food you eat (protein takes longer to digest). Large meals take 2 to 5 hours.
1 Re: How long does it take for food to leave the stomach by Mark on 10/10/12 (2). 2  Re: How long does it take for food to leave the stomach by Libre on 10/10/12 (1). 3  Re: How long does it take for food to leave the stomach by Mark on 10/11/12 (0).
In the stomach, food tends to hang around for a little longer and this depends on a variety of factors including the amount of food you have consumed, how much fat it contains, and also the acidity of the stomach. However, all food should have left the stomach within 2 to 4 hours.
After food is digested in the stomach -- which takes about 3-4 hours -- it leaves the stomach. Chyme (or food and stomach acid) enters the small intestine at a rate of about 1 … 00-300 ml every hour.
After food is digested in the stomach -- which takes about 3-4 hours -- it leaves the stomach. Chyme (or food and stomach acid) enters the small intestine at a rate of about 1 … 00-300 ml every hour.