How long do you grill chicken. Knowing when your chicken is done – and I'm talking moist, juicy, finger-licking-goodness done, not dry-as-boot-leather done – is easy if you follow three handy little tips. : Go easy on the breast. By its nature, breast meat is very mild and delicate in flavor. Its internal temperature will rise by another 5 - 10 degrees while resting. So, any time you toss an entire bird on the grill – such as with beer can chicken – be sure to take that into account when checking your temperature for doneness.
Grill with just a pinch of patience – over direct, medium heat for about 10 minutes – and you'll be rewarded with juicy, succulent chicken breasts. And, if you want to plate up breasts that are even more flavorful try grilling free range chicken. Its internal temperature will rise by another 5 - 10 degrees while resting. So, any time you toss an entire bird on the grill – such as with beer can chicken – be sure to take that into account when checking your temperature for doneness.
1 Heat the grill depending on cut of chicken. 2  For boneless chicken breasts, cook on high heat. 3  This should take about 6-10 minutes on each side. 4  Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 1 Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 2  This could take between 45-60 minutes to cook. 3  Turn chicken every 10 minutes. 4  Use long-handled tongs or a wide metal spatula to move the chicken.
For the first installment: chicken breasts, arguably one of the most difficult of the standard meats to grill. It's all too common of an occurrence to get dry, chewy, cardboardy breasts. This is all correctable though, and chicken breasts can be fantastic on the grill, it just takes a little know-how. You really want this added protection when cooking chicken breasts and there's really no reason to skip it since the brine takes just a minute to put together, and the chicken only needs about 30 minutes of soaking, which just happens to be about the amount of time it takes to get a charcoal grill going.
Direct grilling of boneless chicken thighs should take 15 to 20 minutes and grilling indirectly with the grill chamber temperature at 350 degrees should take 35 to 45 minutes. The time varies in accordance to the thickness of the chicken. Large chicken breast 8-10 oz. 15 minutes on high coal heat (no black coals, ashed red coals), flip, 15 minutes on the other side. Chicken breast should be cooked until the internal temperature is 165 F no matter what way the chicken is cooked.
Contrary to what you might read in some cooking articles, chicken should ideally be grilled over a charcoal fire for an average of about 25 minutes. Please note that this cooking time of 25 minutes is likely to be sufficient to cook only about a quarter of the entire chicken. You can reduce the grilling time for any smaller part of the chicken, for example a leg. But, with or without marinade, this is the average safe cooking time recommended for chicken when using a charcoal fire. But if you are using a gas grill, the average cooking time will be about seven minutes per side. While grilling, avoid tossing or turning the chicken. One flip should be sufficient. If you have a grill with a closeable lid, you can close it if your fire is low, but remember that you should only do this if you fancy eating well-done chicken. Otherwise, you should stick to grilling in the open.
The next step is to put the skinless, boneless chicken breast on the preheated grill. Once you’ve placed the chicken on the grid, you’ll want to brush the exposed side of the chicken breast with oil. Having done this, allow the chicken breast to grill for between six and eight minutes. You’ll know that the chicken has been properly cooked when there’s no pink in its center (but it’s not dried out either). It’s recommended that you turn the chicken approximately midway through the grilling time. If you’re in the mood for something a bit healthier, grilling up a skinless, boneless chicken breast is the way to go. One thing to keep in mind is that skinless, boneless chicken breasts can overcook within seconds.
By about 30 minutes the chicken should be mostly cooked and ready for sauce. If you are not going to be putting barbecue sauce on your chicken then continue cooking until the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees F. (74 degrees C.) Go to step 9 for more details. 
1 For boneless chicken breasts, cook on high heat. 2  This should take about 6-10 minutes on each side. 3  Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 4  This could take between 45-60 minutes to cook. 1 Longer-cooking cuts (such as bone-in chicken parts) should be cooked over a lower heat. 2  This could take between 45-60 minutes to cook. 3  Turn chicken every 10 minutes. 4  Use long-handled tongs or a wide metal spatula to move the chicken.
Thaw frozen chicken slowly and safely. It will take anywhere from 24 hours to two days to thaw a whole chicken in the refrigerator, and about 2 to 9 hours for cut-up chicken parts (less for boneless pieces). You can thaw chicken more quickly in a cold water bath or by using the defrost cycle of the microwave. 