1 The typical fee for employers using a temp agency is 12-50% of the employee's hourly rate. 2  For example, if an employee earns $10 per hour from the temp agency, and the agency's markup is 50%, the employer will pay an extra $5 per hour to the temp agency for a total of $15 per hour.
Staffing Markup. Staffing markup is a term used by staffing companies to describe the fees charged over and above wages paid to a contract or temporary employee. The implication is that you, the client, has input into the decision on pay rate of the temp or contract employee.
1 When a business chooses to hire a temp agency as a permanent employee, the business must pay the temp agency a permanent staffing fee ranging from 10-25% of the employee's first-year salary.
After settling on an hourly rate that the company is willing to pay the employee, the temp agency adds a markup to this amount. The markup ranges anywhere from 25 percent to 100 percent, depending on the agency and how much demand there is for the employee.
1 For example, if an employee earns $10 per hour from the temp agency, and the agency's markup is 50%, the employer will pay an extra $5 per hour to the temp agency for a total of $15 per hour. 2  Some large organizations have in-house temporary agencies which apply similar fees for their services.
The pay rate (aka hourly rate) of the worker plus the markup is called the bill rate. Markups can range from 30% to 60%+ with an average in the high thirtieth percentiles across all skill disciplines. Some staffing suppliers promote rates below 30% and, conversely, some services may charge 75% to 100%+ markups.
1. Temp agencies... generally charge 35 to 40% markup above the pay rate their client is willing to pay the temp employee. However, those rates are subject to negotiation and in this economy, some agencies are charging much less for their services. Also, the rate will change depending on the geographic location.
1 Some large organizations have in-house temporary agencies which apply similar fees for their services. 2  For example, the University of Washington charges a 29% markup, with department's paying $18.06 per hour for a temporary employee who actually earns $14 per hour.