Cormorants have been a federally protected species since 1918 when they were included in the original Migratory Bird Treaty between the United States and Canada. Since then, Mexico, Japan and Russia have become parties to the treaty. The effort to control the exploding population of cormorants on eastern Lake Ontario has become a war -- not to Farquhar and his assistant, but to the anglers, fishing guides and businesses whose leisure and livelihoods are linked to the fish in the lake.
None of that proves they nested at South Dumpling—or at the other locations—but clearly cormorants are regional natives. As with most animal species, the population history of double-crested cormorants in North America has been shaped by human activity. Native Americans on both coasts ate cormorants and their eggs. Early European settlers didn’t seem to eat much cormorant, but they did use the bird’s meat for fish bait. That’s the area with the greatest growth in cormorant populations, and the center of a good deal of the controversy. It’s also the area where Wires and Cuthbert’s evidence for cormorants’ former abundance is the most anecdotal and inconclusive.
Cormorants nest in colonies around the shore, on trees, islets or cliffs. They are coastal rather than oceanic birds, and some have colonised inland waters – indeed, the original ancestor of cormorants seems to have been a fresh-water bird. Their feet have webbing between all four toes. All species are fish-eaters, catching the prey by diving from the surface. They are excellent divers, and under water they propel themselves with their feet with help from their wings; some cormorant species have been found to dive as deep as 45 metres.
Phalacrocorax auritus. Historically, the Double-crested cormorant (DCCO) has been one of the most misunderstood and maligned of all native Minnesota bird species. Since the mid-1800s, they have been accused of being a voracious fish-eating bird and have been clubbed, shot, and had their colonies destroyed. 
No consistent distinction exists between cormorants and shags. The names 'cormorant' and 'shag' were originally the common names of the two species of the family found in Great Britain, Phalacrocorax carbo (now referred to by ornithologists as the great cormorant) and P. aristotelis (the European shag). Their feet have webbing between all four toes. All species are fish-eaters, catching the prey by diving from the surface. They are excellent divers, and under water they propel themselves with their feet with help from their wings; some cormorant species have been found to dive as deep as 45 metres.
Cormorants consume a wide variety of fish species, usually reflecting their availability at inland fisheries. Cormorants commonly take fish between 5 and 15 cm (2 to 6 inches) in length, but have been recorded eating fish of over 40 cm (16 inches) and eels of over 60 cm (24 inches) long. This is why fishery managers commonly resort to stocking to increase fish densities in their waters. The extent to which cormorants might affect a fish stock, and thus catches, will depend on the duration and level of the predation and the numbers, sizes and species of fish removed.
APPLICABLE INTERNATIONAL LAW The Cormorant is protected under the 1916 Migratory Bird Treaty with Canada, indirectly under the Ramsar Convention, and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 (MBTA). The cormorant receives no protection from the Convention of Migratory Species or CITES. While the Ramsar Convention and the Migratory Bird Treaty with Canada remain possible avenues for international protection of the cormorant (see infra), it is the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 (MBTA) that is the primary instrument of international law concerning the migratory birds in North America.
About 4,000 cormorants nest on the Oregon Coast at the Tillamook, Umpqua and Rogue estuaries. It's the latest case of wildlife officers killing one federally protected species to help a threatened or endangered species. Cormorants are protected by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. 
While the birds' foes say the cormorants have outgrown their protected status, changing it would be an international issue, said Diane Pence, a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service spokeswoman in Hadley, Mass. Besides, if we took away their protected status, they would be severely persecuted again. The effort to control the exploding population of cormorants on eastern Lake Ontario has become a war -- not to Farquhar and his assistant, but to the anglers, fishing guides and businesses whose leisure and livelihoods are linked to the fish in the lake.