The Eddystone lantern is 133 feet above the water. In, North America, one of the famous lighthouses is at Minot's Ledge in Massachusetts. Well known are also the iron skeleton towers on the Florida Reefs. The most powerful lighthouse in the U.S.A, is the Navesink lighthouse at the entrance of New York Harbor. Its lamp has a strength of 9,000,000-candle power. Eternal Light. Life on earth has often been likened to a voyage into strange and unchartered seas, full of perils and storms. The sea could be quite terrifying to sailors on a ship battling its way in mountainous waves, in the midst of a howling gale and lashing rain. At such a time nothing is more welcome to these sailors than the glimpse of a light from a lighthouse, telling them that land is near.
Today, the beam can be seen up to 17 miles away. The current Eddystone Lighthouse-Aerial photo by Marinas.com (more images are available). On the left is the stub of the third lighthouse (Smeaton Tower) which was pulled down and moved. The old Eddystone (Smeaton's Tower Lighthouse) moved to Plymouth Hoe in 1882. It was the first Trinity House rock lighthouse to be converted to automatic operation. Eddystone Lighthouse is on the treacherous Eddystone Rocks, 9 statute miles (14 kilometres) south west of Rame Head, 13 miles south west of Plymouth. While Rame Head is in Cornwall, the rocks are in Devon and composed of Precambrian Gneiss
Smeaton's lighthouse was 59 feet (18 m) high and had a diameter at the base of 26 feet (8 m) and at the top of 17 feet (5 m). The tower is 49 metres (161 ft) high, and its white light flashes twice every 10 seconds. The light is visible to 22 nautical miles (41 km), and is supplemented by a foghorn of 3 blasts every 62 seconds.
Today, the beam can be seen up to 17 miles away. Eddystone Lighthouse is now monitored and controlled from the Trinity House Operations Control Centre at Harwich in Essex. There are many paintings of this series of lighthouses and many of these together with a longer six page history can be found by clicking here. It was the first Trinity House rock lighthouse to be converted to automatic operation. Eddystone Lighthouse is on the treacherous Eddystone Rocks, 9 statute miles (14 kilometres) south west of Rame Head, 13 miles south west of Plymouth. While Rame Head is in Cornwall, the rocks are in Devon and composed of Precambrian Gneiss
In the early 1900’s, Eddystone became the home of the Baldwin Locomotive Works plant, which at the time was the largest manufacturer of steam locomotives in the world. During World War I, Remington Arms opened the Eddystone Rifle Plant on Baldwin land with Baldwin management. The Simpson family had Lighthouse Hall built in 1880 as a social gathering place for the town. The first Borough Council Meeting was held on the 2nd floor on February 26, 1889, and the first ordinance was borrowing $1,000 to get the Borough started.
Looking north from the beaches of the Bay of Fires as you stand on the dramatic boulders tumbled across the beach, you can see Eddystone Point Lighthouse, situated 15 kilometres north of Ansons Bay, a quiet, sleepy and isolated hamlet of fishing shacks. 
For the pop group, see Edison Lighthouse. The Eddystone Lighthouse is on the dangerous Eddystone Rocks, 9 statute miles (14 km) south of Rame Head, England, United Kingdom. While Rame Head is in Cornwall, the rocks are in Devon and composed of Precambrian gneiss. The current structure is the fourth to be built on the site. The tower is 49 metres (161 ft) high, and its white light flashes twice every 10 seconds. The light is visible to 22 nautical miles (41 km), and is supplemented by a foghorn of 3 blasts every 62 seconds.
Also known as the Ambrose Channel Range Light, the Staten Island Lighthouse serves as the rear range light companion to the West Bank Lighthouse. The 90-foot tower is located on Staten Island’s Richmond Hill at a point that is 141 feet above sea level and over five miles northwest of the West Bank Lighthouse.