— Jaime Dagenais, Boca Raton, FL. Shallots, like onions and garlic, are a member of the allium family, but their flavor is richer, sweeter, yet more potent. Like garlic, they grow in clusters, with several bulbs attached at the base. You'll recognize them by their coppery skins and their off-white flesh, which is usually tinged with magenta
Shallots are often confused with scallions. Answer: The shallot looks rather like a small, elongated onion with copper, reddish, or gray skin. Once you peel it, it divides into cloves like garlic, rather than one bulb with concentric layers like an onion. 
Diffen › Food › Fruits and Vegetables. Shallots have a milder taste and odor than onions, so shallots are more commonly eaten raw. However, when cooked, shallots can lose their flavor quickly, and so onions are preferable in cooked food like stir fries. Onions are also crunchier than shallots. Onions and shallots are both bulb vegetables in the same plant family that originated from central Asia. They are both used as ingredients to flavor dishes and can be eaten on their own.
The shallot is a type of onion, specifically a botanical variety of the species Allium cepa. Like garlic, shallots are formed in clusters of offsets with a head composed of multiple cloves. The skin colour of shallots can vary from golden brown to gray to rose red, and their off-white flesh is usually tinged with green or magenta.
A member of the onion family, but formed more like garlic than onions. Shallots are favored for their mild onion flavor, and can be used in the same manner as onions. A shallot looks like a small, elongated onion with a copper, reddish, or gray skin. When peeled, shallots separate into into cloves like garlic. There are two main types of shallots: Jersey or false shallots (larger) and true shallots (more subtle flavor. Fresh green shallots are available in the spring and dry shallots (dry skin/moist flesh) are available year-round.
Whole shallot plant, consist of roots, bulbs, leaves, stalks, and flowers. Like garlic, shallots are formed in clusters of offsets with a head composed of multiple cloves. The skin colour of shallots can vary from golden brown to gray to rose red, and their off-white flesh is usually tinged with green or magenta.
Shallots are considered members of the onion family, but are smaller than onions and look more like garlic. Inside, they do not have concentric structures like onions, but are sectioned into cloves like garlic. Shallots are also not the same as pickling onions. Some varieties are more elongated than others, such as the banana shallot. They tend to have a faster cooking time than onions, but they usually do not have as long of a storage life. Wine and shallots are a popular cooking combination.
Shallots probably originated in Central or Southeast Asia, travelling from there to India and the eastern Mediterranean. The name shallot comes from Ashkelon, an ancient Canaanite city, where people in classical Greek times believed shallots originated. Like garlic, shallots are formed in clusters of offsets with a head composed of multiple cloves. The skin colour of shallots can vary from golden brown to gray to rose red, and their off-white flesh is usually tinged with green or magenta.
This Video Explains What Is A Shallot as well as how to choose a shallot and Cut A Shallot. Shallot is used as a substitute for onions as it does not overpower the taste of the other ingredients. Many shallots will have more than one bulb. 