Time Required for Exams. Doctoral students periodically take a series of exams until they complete their Ph.D. program. During the first year of Ph.D. studies, candidates typically take a comprehensive exam to gauge their knowledge in a chosen field of study.
A Ph.D. program usually ends with a detailed and long dissertation. This paper tends to be 200-300 pages in length and can take you a year or more to complete. The lengthy dissertation is a major reason why earning your Ph.D. takes so long. To earn your Psy.D. degree, you need 4-6 years to finish the degree.
Courses. Full-time Ph.D. candidates typically take advanced courses during their first 2-3 years of study. The number of course credits required to get a Ph.D. may vary widely, depending on the university's semester or quarter schedule and the doctoral program.
Well, traditional MPhil/PhD route is 4 years, when you take them both. However MPhil's aren't always necessary. A PhD is almost always a 3 year, solely research degree. It's basically the last 3 years of any US PhD. The first two years of a US PhD, the masters part, is condensed into one year in the UK. If you want to compare like with like, then a UK MA+PhD = 4 years (usually).
Students must first take advanced courses in their field for a few years, followed by a set of comprehensive exams. After this is accomplished, Ph.D. students produce a dissertation project, which can vary in its time to completion.
Masters degree = 1 or 2 years depending on the program. PhD = typically 5 years. It takes that long because of the research component. Some students choose to do an MD/PhD degree which is about 7 years. I don't know what the rest of the folks here are talking about, it's not timeless nor is it 10 years.
As stated above, the PhD can take up to 8 years, with the average time being around 5 years. But it does vary considerably depending on a lot of factors (subject, research, supervisor, funding, problems...). As of 2007, the average length for a PhD was 8.2 years.