Psychosis, by definition, is losing touch with reality.The best known examples are when a person hallucinates or is delusional. Other psychotic symptoms can include severely impaired thinking (such as in loose associations and flight of ideas) or grossly disorganized behavior behavior or speech. 
Psychosis is also a known side effect of the use, abuse, and withdrawal from certain drugs. So-called recreational drugs, such as hallucinogenics, PCP, amphetamines, cocaine, marijuana, and alcohol, may cause a psychotic reaction during use or withdrawal. It is also the defining feature of schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder, schizoaffective disorder, delusional disorder, and the psychotic disorders (i.e., brief psychotic disorder, shared psychotic disorder, psychotic disorder due to a general medical condition, and substance-induced psychotic disorder).
An episode of psychosis is when a person has a break from reality and often involves seeing, hearing and believing things that aren’t real. Approximately 3 in 100 people will experience an episode of psychosis during their lives. Symptoms of a psychotic episode can include incoherent speech and disorganized behavior, such as unpredictable anger, but psychosis typically involves one of two major experiences: Hallucinations are seeing, hearing or physically feeling things that aren’t actually there. For example:
Symptoms of psychosis. Someone who develops psychosis will have their own unique set of symptoms and experiences, according to their particular circumstances. However, four main symptoms are associated with a psychotic episode. They are: 1  hallucinations. 2  delusions. 3  confused and disturbed thoughts. 4  lack of insight and self-awareness. 
Schizoaffective disorder is defined by mood disorder-free psychosis in the context of a long-term psychotic and mood disorder. Psychosis must meet criterion A for schizophrenia which may include delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, thinking or behavior and negative symptoms. Both delusions and hallucinations are classic symptoms of psychosis. Delusions are false beliefs which are strongly held despite evidence to the contrary.
brief reactive psychosis an episode of brief psychotic disorder that is a reaction to a recognizable and distressing life event. depressive psychosis older term for a psychosis characterized by severe depression, which is now more commonly described as a form of major depressive disorder. Korsakoff's psychosis Korsakoff's syndrome. postpartum psychosis a psychotic episode occurring during the postpartum period. It is also the defining feature of schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder, schizoaffective disorder, delusional disorder, and the psychotic disorders (i.e., brief psychotic disorder, shared psychotic disorder, psychotic disorder due to a general medical condition, and substance-induced psychotic disorder).
Psychosis refers to an abnormal condition of the mind described as involving a loss of contact with reality . People with psychosis are described as psychotic. People experiencing psychosis may exhibit some personality changes and thought disorder. Depending on its severity, this may be accompanied by unusual or bizarre behavior, as well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities. 1 People experiencing a psychotic episode in the context of depression may experience persecutory or self-blaming delusions or hallucinations, while people experiencing a psychotic episode in the context of mania may form grandiose delusions.
Psychosis is a symptom or feature of mental illness typically characterized by radical changes in personality, impaired functioning, and a distorted or nonexistent sense of objective reality. It is also the defining feature of schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder, schizoaffective disorder, delusional disorder, and the psychotic disorders (i.e., brief psychotic disorder, shared psychotic disorder, psychotic disorder due to a general medical condition, and substance-induced psychotic disorder).
Symptoms. Symptoms of a psychotic episode can include incoherent speech and disorganized behavior, such as unpredictable anger, but psychosis typically involves one of two major experiences: Hallucinations are seeing, hearing or physically feeling things that aren’t actually there. For example:
The term psychosis is very broad and can mean anything from relatively normal aberrant experiences through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder. 1 People experiencing a psychotic episode in the context of depression may experience persecutory or self-blaming delusions or hallucinations, while people experiencing a psychotic episode in the context of mania may form grandiose delusions.