The little blue circle of USDA’s MyPlate illustrates the dairy food group. The dairy group is an integral part of MyPlate’s food and nutrition plan. Make sure that most of your calcium rich dairy products are fat-free or low-fat (1%).
The dairy food group is made of all foods that are predominantly made from milk. Most milk products are found in the refrigerated section of the supermarket. These foods are usually pasteurized and have a specific shelf life so always check the date. Once milk is opened, it can spoil easily if not kept refrigerated. 
Milk products and production relationships. A dairy product or milk product is food produced from the milk of mammals. Dairy products are usually high energy-yielding food products. A production plant for the processing of milk is called a dairy or a dairy factory. Apart from breastfed infants, the human consumption of dairy products is sourced primarily from the milk of cows, water buffaloes, goats, sheep, yaks, horses, camels, domestic buffaloes, and other mammal
Luckily for you, calcium-fortified nut and grain milk offer similar key nutrients as dairy milk. You can also buy calcium-fortified orange juice. This is also a good time to get acquainted with some calcium-rich foods like dark leafy greens (kale, bok choi, collards, broccoli), sardines, and almonds. Similarly, if butters or margarines are used to make a purchasable product, they’ll have to list these ingredients on their food labels. Butter is curdled and processed milk. 1  Some nutritionists claim that butters are the least harmful form of dairy to those with dairy allergies or lactose processing problems.
All liquid products derived from milk and foods made from milk comprise the dairy group. Foods that are made from milk and retain or keep their calcium content are also a part of this group. Calcium fortified soy beverages or soy milk is also part of the dairy group. The dairy group is an integral part of MyPlate’s food and nutrition plan. Make sure that most of your calcium rich dairy products are fat-free or low-fat (1%).
Food products that are made from milk, but have little to no calcium content, such as butter, cream and cream cheese, are not part of the dairy group. Some items in the diary food group include: 1  All liquid milk: fat-free (skim), low fat (1%), reduced fat (2%), whole milk, 2  Lactose reduced milks, lactose free milks. The dairy group is an integral part of MyPlate’s food and nutrition plan. Make sure that most of your calcium rich dairy products are fat-free or low-fat (1%).
14 Non-Dairy Foods That Are High in Calcium. If you don't eat dairy, you're not doomed to brittle bones. Fill up on these 14 calcium-rich foods that don't contain a drop of milk. Adults need about 1,000 milligrams a daythat's a little more than three 8-ounce glasses of milkbut what if you're vegan, lactose intolerant, or just don't like the taste of dairy products? Here's a little-known fact: there are lots of non-dairy foods with calcium.