Amoxicillin usually starts working in 24-72 hours showing some improvements if the organism is susceptible to amoxicillin. For me it will work with on 24 hours. I have a bad sinus infection pressure in head and face my doctor gave me amoxicillin antibiotics. How long does it take for the medicine to start working? it's the 3rd day and I don't notice anything yet... :-\.
Best Answer: Amoxicillin is the preferred drug for sinus infections. It takes a few days to feel the effects, just like any antibiotic. You should probably also be taking a decongestant like Sudafed (pseudoephedrine) for the congestion. I have a bad sinus infection pressure in head and face my doctor gave me amoxicillin antibiotics. How long does it take for the medicine to start working? it's the 3rd day and I don't notice anything yet... :-\.
1 The number of days you take antibiotics depends on your general health, how serious your sinusitis is, and the type of antibiotic you are taking. 2  A different antibiotic may be needed if your condition does not begin to improve within 3 to 5 days. When using antibiotics to treat chronic (long-term) sinusitis, it may be helpful to remember that: 1 
1 The choice of antibiotic often depends on which antibiotics have worked well for you in the past. 2  If an antibiotic normally used to treat your sinusitis was successful in the past, it may be used again. 3  If it did not work very well, a different antibiotic may be tried. When using antibiotics to treat chronic (long-term) sinusitis, it may be helpful to remember that: 1  The number of days you take antibiotics depends on your general health, how serious your sinusitis is, and the type of antibiotic you are taking.
Well, it depends upon the type of antibiotic and how serious the infection is. Most antibiotics should work between 24-48 hours. Use the information in this article to decipher whether it is worth waiting or if you should call the doctor, nurse or pharmacist for input. Almost every person who takes antibiotics is waiting for them to work and if they do not, they start to wonder when they will start working. TAKE CARE OF YOUR BODY-While waiting can seem excruciating, it is important that you allow your body to mend during this time period.
Once amoxicillin is taken, it begins to attack the infection in the body. After 2 to 3 days of taking the medication at the recommended dosage, a person begins to experience relief of symptoms. This does not, however, mean the infection is fully cleared. For Best Results. Amoxicillin can best work when it is kept in steady levels in the body. For this reason, it is often prescribed to be taken every 8 to 12 hours. If you miss a dose, resume taking the medication as soon as possible. However, do not double up on doses to compensate for any missed dose
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Usually antibiotics take a couple days to take effect -- somewhere between 24 and 48 hours, I think, is when you should start feeling the difference. It does still take time to heal -- antibiotics just work on killing the bacteria, not repair the damage already done. In the mean time, you can take over the counter pain medication like ibuprophen, or try the throat sprays for direct throat pain relief (never worked well for me, but some people swear by them).
Effects. Amoxicillin often is prescribed based on the level of infection. For example, amoxicillin used to treat an ear infection is often prescribed for 7 to 10 days, or given in three injections. However, for a urinary tract infection, which is often more severe, antibiotics are often taken for 14 days to ensure the infection has fully cleared. For Best Results. Amoxicillin can best work when it is kept in steady levels in the body. For this reason, it is often prescribed to be taken every 8 to 12 hours. If you miss a dose, resume taking the medication as soon as possible. However, do not double up on doses to compensate for any missed dose
When you are prescribed antibiotics, you get a sense of relief, that is, you believe it will all go away. However, if the antibiotics do not kick in right away, doubts will inevitably pop into your mind. Most antibiotics start working 24-48 hours after first taken. Almost every person who takes antibiotics is waiting for them to work and if they do not, they start to wonder when they will start working. TAKE CARE OF YOUR BODY-While waiting can seem excruciating, it is important that you allow your body to mend during this time period.