That is the function of air barriers. Confusion on the issue of vapor barriers and air barriers is common. The confusion arises because air often holds a great deal of moisture in the vapor form. When this air moves from location to location due to an air pressure difference, the vapor moves with it. This is a type of migration of water vapor. Incorrect use of vapor barriers is leading to an increase in moisture related problems. Vapor barriers were originally intended to prevent assemblies from getting wet. However, they often prevent assemblies from drying. Vapor barriers installed on the interior of assemblies prevent assemblies from drying inward.
1 A vapor barrier's job is to keep water vapor in humid air from diffusing through one side of a wall and finding a cool surface inside the wall. 2  When a vapor barrier is on the side of a wall where the dry air is (i.e., outside in winter or inside in summer), moisture problems can occur. A vapor barrier reduces the movement of water vapor by diffusion.
The job of a vapour barrier is to prevent vapour diffusion, and the job of an air barrier is to stop air leakage through differences in air pressure. So think of a windbreaker as an air barrier, and a raincoat as a vapour barrier. That is about as far as I can stretch the human to house analogy, hope it helps. Related topics: 1  Vapour barrier paint: faster, cheaper and better than polyethylene.
The function of a vapor barrier is to retard the migration of water vapor. Where it is located in an assembly and its permeability is a function of climate, the characteristics of the materials that comprise the assembly and the interior conditions. Incorrect use of vapor barriers is leading to an increase in moisture related problems. Vapor barriers were originally intended to prevent assemblies from getting wet. However, they often prevent assemblies from drying. Vapor barriers installed on the interior of assemblies prevent assemblies from drying inward.
1 Vapor Barrier-Vapor barriers, typically a polyethylene plastic sheeting, are installed on the inside of a frame wall between the studs and the drywall. 2  Vapor barriers help prevent water vapor from the interior of the house filtering through the wall and condensing on the warm side of the insulation. Water condenses on the warm side of a barrier. There is sometimes a concern in regards to installing a vapor barrier with a masonry veneer wall. This concern is related to the situation where, on a sunny day, water that is trapped in the brick may have a tendency to migrate into the wall system.
A vapour barrier (or vapour barrier) is any material used for damp proofing, typically a plastic or foil sheet, that resists diffusion of moisture through wall, ceiling and floor assemblies of buildings to prevent interstitial condensation and of packaging. The function of a vapor barrier is to retard the migration of water vapor, which are not typically intended to retard the migration of air. This is the function of air barriers. Air is mixed with water vapor. When air moves from location to location due to an air pressure difference, the vapor moves with it
Understanding Vapor Barriers The function of a vapor barrier is to retard the migration of water vapor. Where it is located in anassembly and its permeability is a function of climate, the characteristics of the materials thatcomprise the assembly and the interior conditions. In general water vapor moves from the warm sideof building assemblies to the cold side of building assemblies. This is simple to understand, exceptwe have trouble deciding what side of a wall is the cold or warm side. Logically, this means we needdifferent strategies for different climates.
This article is provided by Spray Foam .com. Vapor Barriers are not to be confused with an air barrier. A vapor barrier is designed to restrict the flow of water vapor through a material, just the same as a air barrier material restricts the flow of air through a material. Vapor barriers or vapor retarders are intended to control the rate of diffusion into a building assembly. 
Vapor barriers are materials used to slow or reduce the movement of water vapor through a material (water vapor is also transported by air leakage but this can be resolved by installing an air barrier). Vapor barrier materials are installed on the warm side of the insulation in a building assembly. Air barriers are not to be confused with vapor barriers or water resistive barriers. Each barrier have a different function to perform