For example, the World Health Organization recommends keeping added sugar intake to 10% of total calories. For the average 2000 calorie-diet that's a maximum of 50 grams. The American Heart Association recommends 6 teaspoons of sugar for women and 9 for men (1 teaspoon of sugar has about 4g of sugar). The primary source of added sugars are soft drinks and other sugar-sweetened beverag
The average American eats about 22 teaspoons of added sugar every day. This adds up to over 70 pounds of sugar a year. Even worse, American teens are eating closer to 34 teaspoons a day. The result on our bodies is less than sweet. Eating too much sugar can lead to unhealthy weight gain, high blood pressure, diabetes, and high cholesterol. Children 1 to 6 years old should have no more than 4 to 6 oz (one-half to three-quarters of a cup) of juice per day. Children 7 to 18 years old should have no more than 8 to 12 oz (1 to 2 cups
By comparison, most women should be getting no more than 6 teaspoons a day, or 100 calories, of added sugar — the sweeteners and syrups that are added to foods during processing, preparation or at the table. For most men, the recommended limit is 9 teaspoons, or 150 calories, the heart group says. Figure out where the sources of added sugars are and think about how to cut back on that.. She said about 8 ounces of fruit-flavored yogurt has about 6 teaspoons of added sugar; 8 ounces of low-fat chocolate milk has about 4 teaspoons; a cup of frosted whole grain cereal has about 3 teaspoons.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture has estimated that the average person eating a healthful diet would still have room for ten teaspoons a day of sugar (that's the amount in a 12-ounce soft drink). Of course, the average American is not eating that healthful diet. Yet he or she consumes 20 teaspoons of sugar a day. Make that 34 teaspoons for the average teenage boy! http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/m... If you eat a healthy diet and meet your nutritional needs on most days, you can still enjoy guilty pleasures like a sweet dessert or an occasional sugary soda
That's about 25g (around six teaspoons) for an adult of normal weight every day. To put this in context a typical can of fizzy drink contains about nine teaspoons of sugar. The limits would apply to all sugars added to food, as well as sugar naturally present in honey, syrups, fruit juices and fruit concentrates. 
A new proposal from the World Health Organization says people should try to limit their sugar consumption to 6 teaspoons per day. (Los Angeles Times). Karen Kaplan. The World Health Organization is challenging you to eat no more than six teaspoons of sugar per day. In a new guideline on sugar consumption, the United Nations’ health agency reiterates its 2002 recommendation that no more than 10% of daily calories come in the form of sugar. 
The World Health Organisation suggests that adults should eat no more than 50 grams of sugar (12 teaspoons) per day to avoid the risks of obesity and tooth decay. The UN body even advises that limiting ourselves to 25 grams – or 5% of our daily energy intake – would provide “additional health benefits.”. 
The World Health Organization (WHO) has issued new guidelines suggesting that cutting the amount of sugar we eat from the current recommended limit of 10% of daily energy intake to 5% would be beneficial. That's about 25g (around six teaspoons) for an adult of normal weight every day. To put this in context a typical can of fizzy drink contains about nine teaspoons of sugar. The limits would apply to all sugars added to food, as well as sugar naturally present in honey, syrups, fruit juices and fruit concentrates. 
According to the USDA, women who eat 1800 calories a day can indulge in about 8 teaspoons, or 32 grams, of added sugar (about 7 percent of total daily calories). Yet he or she consumes 20 teaspoons of sugar a day. Make that 34 teaspoons for the average teenage boy! http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/m...
That’s the equivalent of just 25g, or six teaspoons, a day. Currently in the UK the average person gets around 16-17 per cent of their calories from sugar, compared to 11-15 per cent in the US and 7-8 per cent in Hungary and Norway. 1 tablespoon of ketchup contains around 4g, or 1 teaspoon, of sugar. Soda If it’s not diet, the average can of fizzy drink contains up to 40g, or 10 teaspoons, of sugar. That’s more than the recommended 5 per cent in just a few slurps. Bread.