Wry neck is a complaint where you develop neck pain and stiffness, which is often accompanied by spasm of the surrounding neck muscles. This causes neck pain and an inability to turn your neck through its full range of motion. Wry neck can also be referred to as acute wry neck since the onset is sudden-or acute! Wry neck is an extremely common condition, which can be quite disabling as the sufferer experiences constant severe pain with simple neck movements. The most common cause of acute wry neck is a locked facet joint. Facet joints are located at the back of your spinal column. These facet joints allow, guide and limit the movements of your neck. Your facet joints are intended to allow smooth gliding movements between the adjacent vertebra.
Torticollis, also known as wry neck or loxia, is a dystonic condition defined by an abnormal, asymmetrical head or neck position, which may be due to a variety of causes. Torticollis is a fixed or dynamic tilt, rotation, or flexion of the head and/or neck. The type of torticollis can be described depending on the positions of head and neck. 1  laterocollis: the head is tipped toward the shoulder. 2  rotational torticollis: the head rotates along the longitudal axi
Chronic wry neck can cause debilitating pain and difficulty performing daily tasks. Fortunately, medications and therapies can help to relieve pain and stiffness. Surgery can also sometimes correct the condition. Treatment is most successful when begun early, especially for children. Congenital forms of wry neck can be improved by stretching the neck muscle. If started within a few months of birth, this treatment can be very successful. If this or other treatments don’t work, surgery can sometimes correct the problem. Acquired wry neck is treated according to the cause, if known.
Wry Neck Causes. Wry neck can have several causes. However, it is the thought that the pain and reduction in range of motion results mainly from two mechanisms. Either Facet Wry Neck caused by a locked facet joint or Discogenic Wry Neck caused by a cervical disc injury. The most common cause of acute wry neck is a locked facet joint. Facet joints are located at the back of your spinal column. These facet joints allow, guide and limit the movements of your neck. Your facet joints are intended to allow smooth gliding movements between the adjacent vertebra.
For the bird, see Wryneck. Torticollis, also known as wry neck or loxia, is a dystonic condition defined by an abnormal, asymmetrical head or neck position, which may be due to a variety of causes. The term torticollis is derived from the Latin words tortus for twisted and collum for neck. Torticollis is a fixed or dynamic tilt, rotation, or flexion of the head and/or neck. The type of torticollis can be described depending on the positions of head and neck. 1  laterocollis: the head is tipped toward the shoulder. 2  rotational torticollis: the head rotates along the longitudal axis
Head tilt may also be known as wry neck, or the scientific terms torticollis, or vestibular disease.. It is a fairly common condition in rabbits, with multiple causes. 
Torticollis is a painfully twisted and tilted neck. The head is generally tilted to one side and the chin to the other. It is also known as wry neck. This condition can be congenital (present at birth). It can also be caused by damage to the neck muscles or blood supply. Congenital forms of wry neck can be improved by stretching the neck muscle. If started within a few months of birth, this treatment can be very successful. If this or other treatments don’t work, surgery can sometimes correct the problem. Acquired wry neck is treated according to the cause, if known.