In this circuit the LDR and the another Resistor form a simple 'Potential Divider' circuit, where the centre point of the Potential Divider is fed to the Base of the NPN Transistor. When the light level decreases, the resistance of the LDR increases. 
Normally the resistance of an LDR is very high, sometimes as high as 1000 000 ohms, but when they are illuminated with light resistance drops dramatically. The animation opposite shows that when the torch is turned on, the resistance of the LDR falls, allowing current to pass through it. However, when light shines onto the LDR its resistance falls and current flows into the base of the first transistor and then the second transistor. The LED lights. The preset resistor can be turned up or down to increase or decrease resistance, in this way it can make the circuit more or less sensitive. 1.
The resistance of a photoresistor decreases with increasing incident light intensity; in other words, it exhibits photoconductivity. A photoresistor can be applied in light-sensitive detector circuits, and light-and dark-activated switching circuits. A photoresistor is made of a high resistance semiconductor. In the dark, a photoresistor can have a resistance as high as several megohms (Mω), while in the light, a photoresistor can have a resistance as low as a few hundred ohms. 
The Keyes K853518 breakout board is based on a LDR (Light Dependent PhotoResistor). It is a simple device that has the characteristic of changing its resistance based on the amount of light that hits it. Its resistance will be lower when a light is shone on it. 
The LDR. LDRs (light-dependent resistors) are used to detect light levels, for example, in automatic security lights. Their resistance decreases as the light intensity increases: LDR symbol. 1  In the dark and at low light levels, the resistance of an LDR is high, and little current can flow through it. 2  In bright light, the resistance of an LDR is low, and more current can flow through it. 1 In the dark and at low light levels, the resistance of an LDR is high, and little current can flow through it.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. As light intensity increases, resistance decreases, hence it will maximise current flow through the LDR. A LDR is a semiconductor, hence it does not give an Ohmic graph (graph of V against I giving a constant gradient which represents a constant resistance) even if physical conditions such as light is kept constant. 
When the light level is low the resistance of the LDR is high. This prevents current from flowing to the base of the transistors. Consequently the LED does not light. However, when light shines onto the LDR its resistance falls and current flows into the base of the first transistor and then the second transistor. The LED lights. The preset resistor can be turned up or down to increase or decrease resistance, in this way it can make the circuit more or less sensitive. 1.
An LDR or photoresistor is made any semiconductor material with a high resistance. It has a high resistance because there are very few electrons that are free and able to move-the vast majority of the electrons are locked into the crystal lattice and unable to move. A photoresistor or light dependent resistor is a component that is sensitive to light. When light falls upon it then the resistance changes. Values of the resistance of the LDR may change over many orders of magnitude the value of the resistance falling as the level of light increases.
A light-dependent resistor (LDR) is a photo-conductive cell. It is made from a semi-conducting material called cadmium sulphide (CdS). Its resistance (in ohms) changes in proportion to the amount of light falling upon it. An LDR component that is often used by GCSE students is the ORP12. As a general rule-of-thumb, in bright light its resistance is around 5.4 kΩ. When the light level decreases, the LDR resistance increases, and the voltage across it also increases. When this happens, the voltage across the base and emitter junctions of the transistor also increases, because the LDR is essentially connected across them...