I Like Spanking Implements. A martinet is a short, whip made of a wooden handle of about 25 cm in length and about 10 or 12 lashes of equal, relatively short length (about 30 cm) . The lashes are made of leather. The martinet was often applied on the thighs, the calves or on the buttocks. It was used in families and in schools till the 60’s. Today, martinets are still sold in the pet section of French supermarkets.
A martinet is a short, scourge-like (multi-tail) type of whip made of a wooden handle of about 25 cm (10 inches) in length and about 10 lashes of equal, relatively short length. The lashes are usually made of leather, but sometimes soap-stiffened cords are used in place of leather. 1 In an extended sense, a martinet is any person who believes strict adherence to rules and etiquette is paramount. 2  Martinets often use etiquette and other rules as an excuse to trump ethics, to the point that etiquette loses its ethical ground.
A stiff commissariat officer of sixty, famous as a martinet, had then become enamoured of the gravity with which she drove the proprieties four-in-hand through the cathedral town society, and had solicited to be taken beside her on the box of the cool coach of ceremony to which that team was harnessed. Perkins, martinet though he was, would hardly, I think, have inflicted such a punishment on Cecily, who was a favourite of his, had he known the real nature of that luckless missive.
Synonyms. 1  The Governor was prone to military simplicity - ‘a perfect martinet in military discipline’ was how the senior official in the Colonial Office described him. 2  The crew on board the aging vessel is a mix of Namibians, Cubans and white South Africans, overseen by a martinet whom everyone dislikes. 1 The crew on board the aging vessel is a mix of Namibians, Cubans and white South Africans, overseen by a martinet whom everyone dislikes. 2  Shortly before the concert began, one of the ushers-merciless martinets who patrol the hall with a critical eye-saw that my placement did not conform with their approved seating plan.
Use martinet in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a martinet is someone who is strict and follows rules absolutely, especially in the military. 1  A drill sergeant is an example of a martinet in the military. 2  A principal who doesn't allow a student to break a single rule is an example of a martinet. 
Full Definition of MARTINET. 1. : a strict disciplinarian. 2. : a person who stresses a rigid adherence to the details of forms and methods. See martinet defined for English-language learners. See martinet defined for kids. 
Martinet. The martinet is a punitive device traditionally used in France and other parts of Europe. The word also has other usages. It is also a term for a type of hammer in French, a diminutive of marteau, hammer. in military language, a strict disciplinarian; in general, one who lays stress on a rigid adherence to the details of discipline, or to forms and fixed methods. Martinet (noun). the martin. Origin: [So called from an officer of that name in the French army under Louis XIV.
The martinet (/ˈmɑːtɪnɪt/) is a punitive device traditionally used in France and other parts of Europe. The word also has other usages, described below. 1 In an extended sense, a martinet is any person who believes strict adherence to rules and etiquette is paramount. 2  Martinets often use etiquette and other rules as an excuse to trump ethics, to the point that etiquette loses its ethical ground.