Pam determines that she must amortize her points. The loan is scheduled to run for a period of 30 years. For the first year, Pam will deduct $30 in interest expense in the form of amortized points. She makes this computation by taking the amount of the points ($1,800) divided by the length of the loan (30 years).
Let's revisit our first example above. Same facts: Pam was required to amortize her loan points over her 30-year loan that closed originally on July 1, 2004. For 2004, Pam receives an amortized points deduction of $30. For 2005 and 2006, Pam receives an amortized interest deduction of $60 each year. For the first year, Pam will deduct $30 in interest expense in the form of amortized points. She makes this computation by taking the amount of the points ($1,800) divided by the length of the loan (30 years).
A point is equal to 1% of the loan amount—for example, one point on a $100,000 loan is $1,000. These charges are also called loan origination fees, maximum loan charges, or premium charges. Some points are currently deductible (deductible in full the year you buy your home). Some are not. You can do this provided that your loan is less than $1 million. If your acquisition debt exceeds $1 million, you cannot deduct all the interest on your mortgage and you cannot deduct all your points.
The remaining $1,400 in points would be required to be deducted (amortized) over the life of the loan. Home equity line of credit points: Points paid for a line of credit or equity line, which is secured by the home, are deductible over the period of time that the credit line is in effect. For the first year, Pam will deduct $30 in interest expense in the form of amortized points. She makes this computation by taking the amount of the points ($1,800) divided by the length of the loan (30 years).
The amortization period on a mortgage is the total length of time it will take you to pay off your mortgage. If your down payment is less than 20 percent of the purchase price of your home, the longest amortization period allowed is 25 years. 
How it Works. When you amortized a 30 year fixed-rate loan, they are taking the total amount that is owed and divide it by 360 months. Whenever you make a large payment, one of two things will happen. When this happens, the lender is going to re-amortized the loan and recalculate the monthly payment
Points are prepaid interest and may be deductible as home mortgage interest, if you itemize deductions on Form 1040, Schedule A (PDF). If you can deduct all of the interest on your mortgage, you may be able to deduct all of the points paid on the mortgage. If your acquisition debt exceeds $1 million or your home equity debt exceeds $100,000, you cannot deduct all the interest on your mortgage and you cannot deduct all your points. You can deduct the rest of the points over the life of the loan. Points charged for specific services, such as preparation costs for a mortgage note, appraisal fees, or notary fees are not interest and cannot be deducted.
DEFINITION of 'Amortized Loan'. A loan with scheduled periodic payments of both principal and interest. This is opposed to loans with interest-only payment features, balloon payment features and even negatively amortizing payment features. Next Up
If the seller of a house pays points, they are deductible for the home buyer, but the buyer must reduce the cost basis of the house by the amount of the points. Points that you pay for refinancing your mortgage must always be prorated over the life of the loan. For example, if you pay $3,000 of points when you refinance in order to buy down your rate, then you can deduct $100 of points each year for a 30-year loan or $200 for a 15 year note. However, if you refinanced and paid the same amount of points as in the previous example and then refinanced again two years later, then you will be able to deduct all remaining points paid in the previous loan in the year of your second refinancing.
A mortgage point equals 1 percent of your total loan amount-for example, on a $100,000 loan, one point would be $1,000. 