(pounds). Properly Thawing a Turkey. Holiday food safety starts with properly thawing a frozen turkey. Simply enter the weight of the turkey in pounds and click calculate. A turkey requires approximately 24 hours (1 day) of refrigerated thawing for every 4-5 pounds. Place the turkey on the bottom shelf of the refrigerator in a pan to avoid contaminating other foods. If you are short on time, cold water thawing is a much quicker process. 
Thawing a turkey in your refrigerator takes about 1 day for every 4-lbs of turkey, so if you want to defrost a 12-lb bird in the refrigerator, it will take about 3 days. Method #2: Place the turkey breast-side down in your kitchen sink and cover it with cold water. Yes, cold water. 
Safely thawing a frozen turkey is one of the most important steps in preparing a meal. There are two recommended methods, depending on the amount of time available. Refrigerator thawing is preferred and the least labor-intensive but requires more time. Cold water thawing takes less time but requires more attention. Cold Water Thawing. 1  Thaw breast side down, in an unopened wrapper, with enough cold water to cover your turkey completely. 2  Change water every 30 minutes to keep the turkey chilled. 3  Estimate a minimum thawing time of 30 minutes per lb.
• Using this thawing method, you should estimate about 30 minutes of defrosting time per pound of turkey. Approximate time to defrost a whole turkey in cold water: - 10 pounds — 5 hours - 15 pounds — 7 hours - 20 pounds — 10 hours - 25 pounds — 12 hours. You should never thaw a frozen turkey on the counter at room temperature or in hot water. Under either of those methods, the outer layer of the turkey can sit between the bacteria-breeding temperatures of 40°F and 140 °F for far too long to be safe.
With some turkeys approaching 20 pounds or more, they can take days to fully thaw at refrigerator temperatures. In general, a frozen turkey will require approximately 24 hours for every 5 pounds at or below 40° F to to fully thaw. In cold water, a turkey will require approximately 30 minutes per pound to fully thaw. When thawing a turkey in cold water, make sure to replace the water with fresh, cold water every 30 minutes to avoid temperatures conducive to bacterial growth.
• Place the frozen turkey in the fridge — be sure your refrigerator temperature is set at 40 °F or below. • You’ll need to a llow about 24 hours for each 4 to 5 pounds of frozen turkey you plan to thaw in the fridge. Approximate times to defrost a whole turkey in the fridge: - 10 pounds — 2 days plus 12 hours - 15 pounds — 3 days plus 18 hours - 20 pounds — 5 days - 25 pounds — 6 days plus 6 hours. You should never thaw a frozen turkey on the counter at room temperature or in hot water. Under either of those methods, the outer layer of the turkey can sit between the bacteria-breeding temperatures of 40°F and 140 °F for far too long to be safe.
1 Thaw breast side down, in an unopened wrapper, with enough cold water to cover your turkey completely. 2  Change water every 30 minutes to keep the turkey chilled. 3  Estimate a minimum thawing time of 30 minutes per lb. Cold Water Thawing. 1 
Thaw in refrigerator (not at room temperature). Place unopened turkey, breast side up, on a tray in refrigerator and follow our refrigerator thawing instructions. Allow at least 24 hours for every 4 pounds. To thaw more quickly, place unopened turkey breast down in sink filled with cold tap water. Allow 30 minutes per pound.
[ Top of Page ]. Refrigerator Thawing. When thawing a turkey in the refrigerator: 1  Plan ahead: allow approximately 24 hours for each 4 to 5 pounds in a refrigerator set at 40 °F or below. 2  Place the turkey in a container to prevent the juices from dripping on other foods. 