How to use Varifocal glasses: Varifocal glasses are very easy to use and you will adapt to them very quickly. Varifocal glasses are positioned so that as you look through the top of the lens you will be viewing into the distance and in focus. To read, the gaze is simply lowered so that your eyes will now be looking through the lower portion of the lens, the reading part. Distance Zone: The ‘upper’ portion of the varifocal lens provides the ‘distance’ viewing area. Intermediate Zone: The distance and reading areas are connected via a ‘corridor’ of intermediate powers and provides viewing for ‘mid-range’ vision.
Varifocal sunglasses online. For anyone who is photo-sensitive and requires vision correction for both distance and reading, varifocal sunglasses can be the ultimate solution. Even if you just need a pair of glasses to take on holiday with you, varifocal sunglasses will offer completed convenience and practically. The good news is that we can offer our customers almost every major type of branded varifocal lens in either a static coloured tint or as light reactive Transitions. Polarised Varifocal lenses. Not only can you buy Varifocal sunglasses from our extensive range but you can also enhance your lenses allowing you to own the ultimate protection from the suns glare and harmful UV rays by upgrading to Polarsied varifocals.
Guide to your glasses' lenses. Let's recommend the best ones for you. The right pair of glasses can make a real difference to how you see, look and feel. Although choosing frames is a big part of finding your perfect pair, it's important that you have the right lenses too. If your eye check shows that you need glasses to see better, your optometrist will work out your lens prescription. They will also discuss the benefits of the different lens finishes to help you choose glasses to suit your lifestyle and budget.
All our glasses are the same great quality as the high street. The difference is that we can offer that quality at a much cheaper cost. Check out our latest prescription frames and discover that cheaper eyewear need not be a compromise on quality or style. 
See near, far and in-between with our great range of varifocal lenses. Eyes change throughout our lives, gradually losing the ability to focus on close objects. During our mid-forties, the lenses in our eyes become stiffer, and the muscles that control them change-which eventually causes blurred vision. This is called Presbyopia, and it happens to all of us.
First and foremost, a pair of varifocal sunglasses will help to protect your eyes from the suns dangerous UV rays. UV radiation can cause or stimulate many eye problems including age-related macular degeneration and cataracts. Polarised Varifocal lenses. Not only can you buy Varifocal sunglasses from our extensive range but you can also enhance your lenses allowing you to own the ultimate protection from the suns glare and harmful UV rays by upgrading to Polarsied varifocals.
Mens Varifocal glasses. All our glasses are the same great quality as the high street. The difference is that we can offer that quality at a much cheaper cost. Check out our latest prescription frames and discover that cheaper eyewear need not be a compromise on quality or style. 
Varifocal glasses are a very practical and cost effective solution to the problem of presbyopia. Presbyopia is when the lens at the back of the eye can no longer change shape to bring close objects into focus. This is something that the vast majority of adults will suffer from when they reach the age of 40+. Currently on average, only around 0.7% of our customers return their varifocal glasses, mainly due to non-tolerance issues. The fact remains that the vast majority of people adapt to these lenses with ease and usually within the first few days of wearing them.
Buying varifocals online. Almost all of our prescription sunglasses, goggles and everyday glasses are now available with varifocal lenses. Simply use the following steps to place your order online, or please feel free to call us on 01780 783932 if you prefer. Just like when you buy varifocals from a high street optician, we need some extra measurements to produce your glasses accurately. Obviously, you're there and we're here, so we have developed the following super easy system to replicate the stuff your optician does face-to-face*.