1 60% - When does ashford disburse refund checks for this semester? 2  57% - What is the law on when ashford university has to give you your stipend? 3  68% - When does ashford university disburse financial aid for spring? 4  69% - How long can ashford university hold a stipend?
Financial aid encompasses any resource that you receive which assists you with paying for college expenses. When choosing to apply for financial aid, you may apply for loans and grants (if applicable).
When the financial aid disbursement gets posted to your account, it then takes 14 days for it to sit on your account before it is adjusted and a check is cut. After the 14 day … s, and the check gets cut, it has to get signed by the proper department and is mailed.
Sallie Mae will make the funds available to your bank account or financial institution no more than two (2) business days after the stipend appears on your student ledger in the Student Portal, excluding holidays.
Same question and was told by a financial advisor at ashford that they funds.... 8. 0. I asked the same question and was told by a financial advisor at Ashford that they funds have to be off the account 14 days from when they post. They also said that checks are done on Tuesdays and Fridays. They are closed both Friday (12/24) and Monday (12/26), so I don`t see them meeting these deadlines.
2 people found this useful. Ashford University will normally release your funds (by way of a stipend) approximately 14 days (2 weeks) after it is posted to your account. They will apply whatever funds yo … u have to your outstanding balance, and release what's left, over to you (the student).
Ashford University will normally release your funds (by way of a stipend) approximately 14 days (2 weeks) after it is posted to your account. They will apply whatever funds you have to your outstanding balance, and release what's left, over to you (the student).
...if there is any calculated excess funds we would cut out 30% of that amount and send it out to you in the form of a check after 7 successful weeks of attendance and after 14 weeks of successful attendance and successful grades we will cut the additional 70% of any excess funds and send that to you.