is there something that police officers swear by? Example: Police officer  I swear to serve and protect, or how a Judge is sworn in and must take a oath to serve justice in the best way seen fit. 
Police officers in more democratic countries swear or affirm oaths with similar content to those described already. Officers are not given the right to opt out in cases where the persons involved are of races, genders or sexual orientations of which they do not approve. Dr_Lawrence (19492) “Great Answer” (1) Flag as… ¶. Most police officers repeat an oath similar to the one that military take when entering service. Basically, they swear to uphold the constitution, and the laws of their state, city, county, ect.. 
The Constitution is established as the “supreme” law of the land in the United States. And, the requirement is set that government officials (including police officers) must swear in an oath to support the United States Constitution, before taking office. It is important for officers to note that the requirement to swear to their oath is made law by the United States Constitution. 
Generally, state and local police officers take the Law Enforcement Oath of Honor at the beginning of their careers. The oath affirms their standards of integrity, bravery and honor to the community and law. The oath can vary slightly. For example, in Virginia, the words ...so help me God are added at the end. The widely used oath embraced by the International Association of Chiefs of Police reads, On my honor, I will never betray my badge, my integrity, my character or the public trust. I will always have the courage to hold myself and others accountable for our actions.
The Civil Service Law requires employees of the State to take and file an oath of office or an alternative statement. State employees are also required to file a related certification pursuant to the Public Officers Law. The requirements for public officers and State employees are described below. Public Officers. Oath of Office. Members of the State Legislature and all public officers, executive and judicial, are required to take and sign the oath provided by Article XIII, Section 1 of the New York State Constitution before they commence the duties of their office.
All officers of the seven Uniformed services of the United States swear or affirm an oath of office upon commissioning. It differs slightly from that of the oath of enlistment that enlisted members recite when they enter the service. 
The New York State Constitution and Public Officers Law require public officers, including elected officials, to take and file an oath of office. Public officers who are State officers will also need to file a related certification pursuant to the Public Officers Law. Public Officers. Oath of Office. Members of the State Legislature and all public officers, executive and judicial, are required to take and sign the oath provided by Article XIII, Section 1 of the New York State Constitution before they commence the duties of their office.