The liver is your largest internal organ. About the size of a football, it's located mainly in the upper right portion of your abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and above your stomach, but a small portion extends into the upper left quadrant.
Front View of the Liver. The liver is a large, meaty organ that sits on the right side of the belly. Weighing about 3 pounds, the liver is reddish-brown in color and feels rubbery to the touch. Normally you can't feel the liver, because it's protected by the rib cage. The liver has two large sections, called the right and the left lobes.
The liver is the largest organ in the abdomen, and it sits just under the diaphragm in the right upper quadrant. It’s a busy organ because just about every substance you eat goes to the liver to be metabolized before going anywhere else in the body.
In simplest terms, it can be said that the liver is located on the right side of the abdominal cavity, just below the diaphragm. In scientific terms, it is said to be located in the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity. The gallbladder is located to the exact back side of the liver in the human body.
Liver pain is not something to be ignored. It could be a sign of a serious health condition. Therefore it is important to know where it is and what it does in the body. Your liver is located near your abdomen on the right side,actually beneath your ribs and above your diaphragm which separates the chest and the abdomen.
The liver is the largest internal organ of the body and is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and is protected by the lower right ribs. It also extends across the midline toward the left upper quadrant of the abdomen.
The liver is located on the upper side of your right abdomen below your diaphragm and enclosed by your rib cage. At the back of your liver is where the gallbladder is located and closer to the spleen, stomach, intestines and kidneys. You can actually feel your liver by laying your fingers under your right rib cage.
The liver is one of the most important organs in the body. So, it is natural for you to be curious about the location and functions of the liver. Here we will take a detailed look on the placement of the liver, its functions, and also about the diseases associated with it.