Wow! What a great weekend. Weather was absolutely beautiful. Soulshine would like to thank everyone for coming out to this weekends shows. We have a new venue coming up this Friday (10/9) at The Bar in Pearland. Please join us on this new venture. SoulShine added 3 new photos. Soulshine is playing at America's Icehouse tonight from 8-12 (weather permitting). Come join us as we play tribute to 1st Responders for the 14th Anniversary honoring those who lost their lives.
Tampa Theatre and Soulshine Music are proud to announce that country legend Lyle Lovett and His Acoustic Group will perform live on the Theatre’s historic stage at 7:30 p.m. Monday, Dec. 9. It is the first time Lovett has been back to the Bay area since his 2010 performance with[...]. Filed Under: Concerts. Soulshine Music is proud to announce our Gasparilla Music Festival 2015, Main Stage Sponsorship. The event is held annually and for the second straight year, The ‘Soulshine Music Main Stage,’ will host a number of talented musicians, including Trampled By Turtles and Modest Mouse.
In 2007, vocalist Beth Hart released the album 37 Days, which included a cover of this song. Soulshine was originally recorded and released by bluesman Larry McCray on the 1993 album Delta Hurricane, with permission from Warren Haynes. A live version of the song, which appeared on the Allmans' 2003 DVD Live At The Beacon Theatre, had Allman and Haynes alternating vocals on the verses and harmonizing on the chorus. This has been the standard for the song in most recent years with the dual vocals.
mai 2011. Album:The Deep End Vol.1(2001). Gov't Mule (pronounced Government Mule) is a Southern rock jam band formed in 1994 as an Allman Brothers Band side project by Warren Haynes and Allen Woody. They released their debut album Gov't Mule in 1995. Gov't Mule has become a staple act at music festivals across North America, with both its members and frequent guests boasting members from other notable bands, adding various funk and blues rock elements to the band's sound.
ABOUT THIS ALBUM. Read more... Album Notes. The vision for this first SoulShine CD began in the summer of 2006 with Rhonda and Greg Baker sitting in their basement rehearsal studio with a handheld tape recorder (used to record lectures-back in the day). The concept for this project was to create an old-school album in both style and message
Soulshine  is a song recorded by The Allman Brothers Band and released on their 1994 album Where It All Begins. It was written by guitarist Warren Haynes with vocals by Gregg Allman. The song's title originates from Haynes' nickname, given by his father. A live version of the song, which appeared on the Allmans' 2003 DVD Live At The Beacon Theatre, had Allman and Haynes alternating vocals on the verses and harmonizing on the chorus. This has been the standard for the song in most recent years with the dual vocals.
While DJ Vadim -- another European hip-hop mixer whose career began on the same trajectory -- pursued breakbeat hip-hop into the realm of heavily American/underground rap, the production work of Frenchman DJ Cam has become much smoother and closer in sound and execution to the British acid jazz scene. Cam also cultivates his American R&B connection, drafting Cameo 's Larry Blackmon and Nathan Leftenant for a serviceable Roy Ayers impression, while Condor (Espionage) features Guru (aka Baldhead Slick) relaxing over a live cut.
This funky horn band's music keeps you groovin’ while the message of the songs inspires you to look into your Soul, to find the power of love that gives you the strength to create a peaceful coexistence with your Soul brothers and Soul sisters. The vision for this first SoulShine CD began in the summer of 2006 with Rhonda and Greg Baker sitting in their basement rehearsal studio with a handheld tape recorder (used to record lectures-back in the day).