Voltaren Emulgel ® is a topical pain medicine containing diclofenac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that treats pain and inflammation. It is clinically proven to effectively relieve pain associated with recent or acute localized muscle and joint injuries. Voltaren Emulgel ® contains diclofenac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Other common NSAIDs are ibuprofen and naproxen. Diclofenac is one of the most widely used pain-relieving and anti-inflammatory drugs used in the world.
Voltaren Gel (diclofenac sodium topical gel) is a topical gel nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat pain of osteoarthritis of joints that are amenable to topical treatment, such the hands and knees. 
Descriptions. Diclofenac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat pain and other symptoms of arthritis of the joints (eg, osteoarthritis), such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain. However, this medicine does not cure osteoarthritis and will help you only as long as you continue to use it. The exact way that topical diclofenac helps this condition is unknown. Diclofenac topical solution is used to treat pain and swelling caused by osteoarthritis of the knees. Diclofenac topical patch is used to treat acute pain caused by minor strains, sprains, and contusions (bruises). This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription
Diclofenac Diethylamine is a topical patch used to relieve acute pain caused by minor strains, sprains, and contusions (bruises). It is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug that works by reducing pain-causing hormones in the body. This medicine may also be used to treat other conditions as determined by your doctor. If any side effects of Diclofenac Diethylamine develop or change in intensity, the doctor should be informed as soon as possible. Diclofenac Diethylamine can cause side effects such as dryness, burning, itching, peeling, or scaling at the application site; nausea; headache and vomiting. This is not a complete list of all side effects. Do concur with your doctor and follow his directions completely when you are using Diclofenac Diethylamine
Voltaren Emulgel™ must not be used: • in case of a known hypersensitivity to diclofenac diethylamine (the active ingredient of Voltaren Emulgel™) or to any of the excipients. • by persons with hypersensitivity to diclofenac, acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The gel should not be used for more than 7 days for muscle and joint injuries, unless recommended by a doctor. 4. What is the strength of diclofenac in Voltaren Emulgel™? Voltaren Emulgel™ contains the active ingredient diclofenac diethylamine in the strength 11.6 mg/g (1.16% w/w). 5.
Like other medicines, Diclofenac Diethylamine can cause some side effects. If they do occur, the side effects of Diclofenac Diethylamine are most likely to be minor and temporary. However, some may be serious and may require the individual to inform the doctor or visit the nearest hospital immediately. If any side effects of Diclofenac Diethylamine develop or change in intensity, the doctor should be informed as soon as possible. Diclofenac Diethylamine can cause side effects such as dryness, burning, itching, peeling, or scaling at the application site; nausea; headache and vomiting. This is not a complete list of all side effects. Do concur with your doctor and follow his directions completely when you are using Diclofenac Diethylamine
Topicals have been associated with fewer of these side effects. Where the two Voltarens differ is in how the diclofenac is included in each formulation. Voltaren Emulgel contains diclofenac diethylamine 1.16% while Voltaren Gel contains diclofenac sodium 1%. Diethylamine and sodium are salts that are attached to the diclofenac molecule, which aid in its absorption. 
Diclofenac is available as a generic drug in a number of formulations, including diclofenac diethylamine, which is applied topically. Over-the-counter (OTC) use is approved in some countries for minor aches and pains and fever associated with common infections. In the United Kingdom, United States, India, and Brazil diclofenac may be supplied as either the sodium or potassium salt; in China, it is most often supplied as the sodium salt, while in some other countries it is only available as the potassium salt.