If you are already receiving benefits or if you want to change or stop your withholding, you'll need a form W-4V from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). You can download the form, or call the IRS toll-free number. and ask for Form W-4V, Voluntary Withholding Request.
If desired, you can request voluntary Federal tax withholding from your monthly Social Security benefits. You may find doing this easier than paying quarterly estimated tax payments. See http://www.socialsecurity.gov/planners/taxwithold.htm.
If you receive any government payment shown below, you may use this form to ask the payer to withhold federal income tax. 1  Unemployment compensation (including Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act (RUIA) payments), 2  Social security benefits, 3  Social security equivalent Tier 1 railroad retirement benefits,
Taxes are not routinely withheld from Social Security benefits. If desired, you can request voluntary federal tax withholding from your monthly Social Security benefits. See www.socialsecurity.gov/planners/taxwithold.htm.
Social Security Number: You may choose to have federal income tax withheld from unemployment insurance (UI) benefits. UI benefits are taxable under federal law. You can choose to have federal income tax withheld from your. UI benefits before we send them to you. Withholding taxes is not required.
(If you are deaf or hard of hearing, call the IRS TTY number, When you complete the form, you will need to select the percentage of your monthly benefit amount you want withheld. You can have 7%, 10%, 15% or 25% of your monthly benefit withheld for taxes. Note: Only these percentages can be withheld.
Social Security employees cannot provide tax advice. If voluntary withholding interests you, discuss it with your tax preparer or call IRS at 1-800-829-3676 (TTY 1-800-829-4059). To start voluntary tax withholding, complete and provide IRS Form W-4V to your local Social Security office.
When completing the W-4V you select the percentage of benefits for tax withholding. Available options are to have 7 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent or 25 percent of your monthly benefit withheld. The Social Security Administration has no authority to withhold state or local taxes from your benefit. Voluntary withholding is only for Federal taxes. Social Security employees cannot provide tax advice.