Refrigerate the Honey-Baked Ham and Turkey Breast as soon as you receive it in the refrigerator the Honey-Baked Ham will stay fresh for 7 to 10 days Another Answer: If you k … eep it well sealed and refrigerated at a pretty cold temperature you can keep it there up to two weeks. I will never have one delivered again. One Answer yes you can but it will taste good but not a lot. More Information According to the Honey Baked website (see Related Links), their ham can be frozen up to 6 weeks.
Ham can be frozen 4-6 months. Ham freezes very well.But tends to have lots of … moisture, when you unthaw it.That is contributed to the salt content.You can just squeeze it gently;to remove excess water.Or reheat in the oven with out covering ,and the water will be drawn out. I will never have one delivered again. One Answer yes you can but it will taste good but not a lot. More Information According to the Honey Baked website (see Related Links), their ham can be frozen up to 6 weeks.
Cooked ham can be kept in the refrigerator for about 3 to 4 days  and should be eaten within that time frame or it should be frozen.  If it hasn't been eaten or frozen with … in the time frame, then it  should be discarded. If you keep it for one week in the fridge and then put it in the freezer in several packages it will be kept safe for a long time. Thaw it out in the fridge or by running hot water over the package (not the meat). Do not thaw it out in the microwave.
Remove your ham from the freezer and place in the refrigerator. The amount of time it takes for each ham to thaw will vary by size, but usually not more than 48 hours. The average refrigerated shelf life for the ham is 6-8 days. Hams will be shipped frozen and should arrive partially frozen. At this point you may place ham in the freezer (inside the poly bag) for 12-14 days to store before serving, or you can place the ham in the refrigerator and the ham will be ready to eat after being thawed.
Your question should really be -- how long will a 9 pound Honeybaked frozen ham taste good when defrosted and consumed? Foods frozen at 0 degrees F and below will remain SAFE to consume for an indefinite period of time. 
Refrigerate the Honey-Baked Ham and Turkey Breast as soon as you receive it. in the refrigerator the Honey-Baked Ham will stay fresh for 7 to 10 days. Another Answer: If you keep it well sealed and refrigerated at a pretty cold temperature you can keep it there up to two weeks. If you keep it for one week in the fridge and then put it in the freezer in several packages it will be kept safe for a long time. Thaw it out in the fridge or by running hot water over the package (not the meat). Do not thaw it out in the microwave.
Ours arrived yesterday and will stay in the freezer until Tuesday. Product Care Refrigerate the HoneyBaked Ham and Turkey Breast as soon as you receive it. In the refrigerator, the HoneyBaked Ham will stay fresh for 7 to 10 days and the Turkey Breast for approximately 5 to 7 days. To freeze unused ham portions for later use, wrap in aluminum foil and freeze within 5 days of thawing. The HoneyBaked Ham can be frozen for up to 6 weeks. To serve again, place in refrigerator for 24-48 hours ahead of time to thaw. 
The HoneyBaked Web site only wants you to refreeze leftover ham for as much as six weeks (it has clearly not occurred to them that anyone would freeze the entire ham or turkey breast and not eat most of it right away!). You will notice that they don't say anything about freezing the turkey breast. They let you keep ham a little longer in the refrigerator than turkey (7 to 10 days vs. 5 to 7 days), but clearly they would prefer you not freeze their turkey at all. If you popped it in the freezer as soon as it arrived, though, it will absolutely still be safe. 
The taste and texture was just horrible. I will never have one delivered again. One Answer yes you can but it will taste good but not a lot. More Information According to the Honey Baked website (see Related Links), their ham can be frozen up to 6 weeks.
Be sure to date the bag. I've left hams in the freezer for up to a year. When you take that ham out, you can thaw it for 4 hours or so on the counter, then let it finish thawing in the fridge. I have noticed that those spiral ham slices can shrink a little when the ham thaws. So, I'd use it within 3 months