No, orange ladybugs such as the Asian or Japanese lady beetle [Harmonia axyridis] aren't poisonous. But they aren't tasty either. Generally, orange or red coloring warns natur … e that a plant or animal doesn't have a pleasant taste. No, the orange ladybugs are harmless. The scientific name for the family is Coccinellidae. In nature most predato … rs associate bright colours (especially orange and black or yellow and black) with poison and other unpleasant properties, and in fact most coccinellids are poisonous to smaller predators such as lizards and small birds and other insects.
NO, ladybugs are not poisonous to humans, they can affect small animals but they are not poisonous to humans. The scientific name for the family is Coccinellidae. In nature most predato … rs associate bright colours (especially orange and black or yellow and black) with poison and other unpleasant properties, and in fact most coccinellids are poisonous to smaller predators such as lizards and small birds and other insects.
Next, if you want to see pictures of ladybugs, well, they are all over the website! But you will find most of them here on the Pictures of Ladybugs and Larva page. If you need pictures of what the ladybug likes to eat, go to Garden Eaters. A. Ladybugs feed on aphids and other soft bodied insects that feed on plants. The ladybug feeds on these pests as the adult ladybug and as the larva. One ladybug can eat as many as 50 aphids a day.
No, orange ladybugs such as the Asian or Japanese lady beetle [Harmonia axyridis] aren't poisonous. But they aren't tasty either. Generally, orange or red coloring warns natur … e that a plant or animal doesn't have a pleasant taste. Ladybirds (sometimes known as Ladybugs) are a family of small rounded, brightly coloured beetles. The scientific name for the family is Coccinellidae.
lady bugs are poisonous, but can't bite. a beetle is the only other thing I can think of that resembles a lady bug, not sure if any of them are poisonous or not. But a lady bug and granddaddy longleg spider are very poisonous, but can't bite you. angelbnanny · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 2. Comment. 
A. There are lots of animals and insects that prey upon ladybugs. Some insect-eating birds, like martins, swallows, swifts and crows. Insect-eating insects prey on ladybugs like dragonflies, assassin bugs, parasitic wasps, and ants. Other predators include tree frogs, anoles, parasites, fungus and mites. A. Ladybugs feed on aphids and other soft bodied insects that feed on plants. The ladybug feeds on these pests as the adult ladybug and as the larva. One ladybug can eat as many as 50 aphids a day.
The good news is that ladybugs are generally non-toxic but taste bad. (most red, yellow, or brightly colored insects have some sort of toxin or foul taste as a defensive weapon, so you are right to be concerned). 
The Coccinellidae (/ˌkɒksɪˈnɛlɪdaɪ/) are a family of small beetles, ranging from 0.8 to 18 mm (0.0315 to 0.708 inches). They are commonly yellow, orange, or scarlet with small black spots on their wing covers, with black legs, heads and antennae. The Coccinellidae are generally considered useful insects, because many species feed on aphids or scale insects, which are pests in gardens, agricultural fields, orchards, and similar places.
NO, ladybugs are not poisonous to humans, they can affect small animals but they are not poisonous to humans. Ladybirds (sometimes known as Ladybugs) are a family of small rounded, brightly coloured beetles. The scientific name for the family is Coccinellidae.
A. Ladybugs eat Aphids. Aphids are soft bodied insects that suck the juices out of plants. If you have roses in your garden, you have seen aphids. Aphids also come in a variety of colors and not all ladybugs like all the flavors of aphids. A. Ladybugs feed on aphids and other soft bodied insects that feed on plants. The ladybug feeds on these pests as the adult ladybug and as the larva. One ladybug can eat as many as 50 aphids a day.