Plantar warts are hard, grainy growths that usually appear on the heels or balls of your feet, areas that feel the most pressure. This pressure also may cause plantar warts to grow inward beneath a hard, thick layer of skin (callus). Plantar warts are caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). The virus enters your body through tiny cuts, breaks or other weak spots on the bottom of your feet.
A wart is a skin growth caused by some types of the virus called the human papillomavirus (HPV) . HPV infects the top layer of skin, usually entering the body in an area of broken skin. The virus causes the top layer of skin to grow rapidly, forming a wart. Most warts go away on their own within months or years. Warts can grow anywhere on the body, and there are different kinds. For example, common warts grow most often on the hands, but they can grow anywhere. Some people are more likely to get warts than others. Warts come in a wide range of shapes and sizes. A wart may be a bump with a rough surface, or it may be flat and smooth. Tiny blood vessels grow into the core of the wart to supply it with blood.
Even when warts are treated, the HPV virus may remain. This is why warts can come back after treatment. It isn’t clear if treating genital warts lowers a person's chance of giving HPV to a sex partner. It is not fully known why low-risk HPV causes genital warts in some cases and not in others. These types of HPV are called high-risk. Having high-risk HPV is not the same as having cervical cancer. But high-risk HPV can lead to cancer. Most often, high-risk HPV causes no health problems and goes away on its own. High-risk HPV cases that don’t go away are the biggest risk factor for
What Causes Plantar Warts on Feet. Foot warts (also known as plantar warts) are caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). This is the same virus that causes other types of warts to grow on the body. If you’re wondering how you might have contracted the virus, unfortunately it’s virtually impossible to tell. HPV is everywhere
Warts are harmless, but most people don’t like the way they look. Warts are extra layers of skin caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV) family. The virus is spread by skin-to-skin contact. Only certain types of HPV cause genital warts and cervical problems. There are more than 150 specific types of HPV; most of them cause the harmless but unsightly warts on other (non-genital) parts of the body.
Scientists have identified more than 100 unique types of the virus. And most people will have at least one common wart at sometime in their lives, usually on their hands. Certain forms of the virus are more likely to cause skin warts on the hands. Other forms of HPV are more likely to cause genital warts, although some strains of the virus can cause both. You can also get the virus from inanimate objects, like towels that have been used by someone with a wart.”. The viruses are more likely to cause warts when they come in contact with skin that is damaged or cut. Getting a small scrape or biting fingernails may bring on wart.
They may also appear on other parts of the body. Warts have a rough texture and are caused by viruses, particularly one of several kinds of HPV (human papillomavirus). The virus causes keratin, which is a hard protein on the top layer of the skin, to grow too fast. Warts are not the same as moles. 
Causes. Plantar warts are caused by an infection with the human papillomavirus (HPV) in the outer layer of skin on the soles of your feet. More than 100 types of HPV exist, but only a few cause warts on your feet. Other types of HPV are more likely to cause warts on other areas of your skin or on mucous membran