For the retainer to be effective you will have to wear it permanently initially. On your dentist’s recommendations, the retainers can be worn only at nights. The actual number of months that the retainer needs to be worn will vary from person to person and how much your teeth need to be aligned in a straight line. The retainers are the ones that are going to keep your teeth just the way you wanted them and that is long after the braces are off. Although not many people are aware of this, they are considered to be the most important aspect of the treatment in teeth braces.
After braces are removed, most patients will need to wear a retainer all the time for the first six months, then only during sleep for many years. The time required for braces varies from person to person, depending on the severity of the problem; the amount of room available; the distance the teeth must travel; the health of the teeth, gums, and supporting bone; and how closely the patient follows instructions.
For how long do I need to wear retainers? It takes time for the bone and all the tissues around your teeth to reorganise and therefore it is necessary to use retainers until your bite stabilises. In the first month after the braces are removed, the risk of relapse is very high. Some retainers are used full-time for the first 6 months; after that, the retainers are worn only at night, for a few years. Other retainers are worn full-time for about a week, and solely at night thereafter.
If you have a fixed retainer, you should spend more time to brush the back of your teeth. You have to brush all around the wire so that calculus will not form. You will be instructed on how to use dental floss with a floss-threader. Do remember not to use your front teeth to for biting hard foods or objects. Some retainers are used full-time for the first 6 months; after that, the retainers are worn only at night, for a few years. Other retainers are worn full-time for about a week, and solely at night thereafter.
Do I have to Wear Them All the Time? Your orthodontist will prescribe the retention plan that is best for you. Some retainers are used full-time for the first 6 months; after that, the retainers are worn only at night, for a few years. Other retainers are worn full-time for about a week, and solely at night thereafter.
Most of the time the retainers have to be worn for then 6 months. For initial 6 months they are worn day and night and after that they are worn for either alternate days or only at night. Some times they have to be worn for the life time and in that case the fixed retainers are given. The retainers are the ones that are going to keep your teeth just the way you wanted them and that is long after the braces are off. Although not many people are aware of this, they are considered to be the most important aspect of the treatment in teeth braces.
Then, my orthodontist is saying to wear my temporary retainer 24 hours a day 7 days a week for 6 months! I know my friends who have permanent retainers in both the top and bottom teeth and only have to wear their temporary retainer at night. To be honest, I just don’t want to wear it at school. 
Depends how long you want your teeth to stay that way. So it’s really about how long you need to wear your retainers. Teeth are not static. They are dynamic, always moving, and they will continue to move and shift even though you’ve had braces. They’ll try to move forward, up and outwards, and they will continually crowd. 
“Why do I have to wear a retainer?” or “How long do I have to wear a retainer?” are two of the most common questions. Wearing a retainer is known as the retention phase of your orthodontic treatment. It’s a very important time, so we’re happy to explain why you should wear your retainer. When you have braces, your teeth are being realigned around the clock, even while you listen to music, sleep, and spend time with friends. The retention phase begins immediately when you no longer have braces. Many people ask what we mean by constantly; the answer to that one is simple: you have to wear the retainer every moment of every day, except when you’re eating. The second question is how long it will be until that constant wear is reduced to nighttime wear. The answer to that one is also simple: it depends.
Typically, you can estimate how long you need to wear a retainer based on however long your teeth were in braces, according to National Dental Centre Singapore. This does not mean you have to wear them all day; you can typically wear the retainer only at night three to six months after your braces come off. Digital Vision./Digital Vision/Getty Images. Depends On Your Condition. How long you need to wear a retainer varies by case, according to Kids Health. Some people may need a retainer for a year to three years to keep teeth from shifting or to close a gap. You may even need a retainer for the rest of your life if you have certain conditions, like teeth grinding