Diamond Bar is a city in eastern Los Angeles County, California, United States. The population was 55,544 at the 2010 census, down from 56,287 at the 2000 census. It is named after the diamond over a bar branding iron registered in 1918 by ranch owner Frederick E. Lewis. In the California State Senate, Diamond Bar is in the 29th Senate District, represented by Republican Bob Huff. In the California State Assembly, it is in the 55th Assembly District, represented by Republican Ling Ling Chang.
Diamond Bar operates and maintains nine parks totaling more than 160 acres, along with recreational trails and recreation facilities located throughout the city. Diamond Bar is also home to the T.H. Pendergast California Parole Museum, which chronicles the history of parole in California. The facility, which opened its doors in 2003, strives to educate the public about parole and honor those who have worked in the areas of public protection and restorative justice. A twenty-five mile radius around Diamond Bar encompasses downtown Los Angeles, Pasadena, Anaheim, and Long Beach. Within that radius are numerous world-class Southern California attractions as well as ski slopes and beaches.
According to our research of California and other state lists there were 23 registered sex offenders living in Diamond Bar, California as of October 06, 2015. The ratio of number of residents in Diamond Bar to the number of sex offenders is 2,451 to 1. The number of registered sex offenders compared to the number of residents in this city is a lot smaller than the state average
Diamond Bar is nestled between the 57 Freeway and the 60 Freeway with easy access to Orange County, San Bernardino County and Los Angeles. The population of approximately 54,000 has a median household income of $110,000. The median house value is around $587,394. Diamond Bar Real Estate Stats and Trends for the week of October 12th, 2015: homes priced around $630,967 compared to $615,960 the previous week, showing a increase of more than +2% .
Diamond Bar is a part of the Walnut Valley Unified School District. It also has the first hydrogen fueling station to be built in Southern California, near the South Coast Air Quality Management District (AQMD) building. In the California State Senate, Diamond Bar is in the 29th Senate District, represented by Republican Bob Huff. In the California State Assembly, it is in the 55th Assembly District, represented by Republican Ling Ling Chang.
Located at the junction of the Pomona and Orange freeways, Diamond Bar is primarily residential with shopping centers interspersed throughout the city. It is surrounded by the suburban cities, such as Brea, Walnut, Chino Hills, and Rowland Heights. In the California State Senate, Diamond Bar is in the 29th Senate District, represented by Republican Bob Huff. In the California State Assembly, it is in the 55th Assembly District, represented by Republican Ling Ling Chang.
Diamond Bar is also has a Los Angeles County golf course. This golf course is open to the public and it is a popular recreational activity for town residents and visitors to the area. Diamond Bar, California is home to over 55,000 residents. It is located in the eastern Los Angeles area and close to connection of the Orange and Pomona freeways. The area is primarily used for residential purposes; however, there are shopping centers scattered throughout the region. Diamond Bar offers Californians many attractive homes.
Located just minutes away from the 57, 60, 71, 10, and 210 freeways, Diamond Bar Golf Course is a convenient distance from a number of Southern California communities, including Los Angeles Country, Orange County, and the Inland Empire. Diamond Bar Golf Course was recently honored with the Los Angeles County Course of the Year Award for 2012. Enjoy the scenery from the expansive banquet hall’s elegant floor-to-ceiling windows, which overlook the 6,801-yard championship course and the exquisite mountain backdrop.
The California City of Diamond Bar, located among the meandering hills and valleys of Brea Canyon in Los Angeles County, sits about 27 miles east of Los Angeles. A twenty-five mile radius around Diamond Bar encompasses downtown Los Angeles, Pasadena, Anaheim, and Long Beach. Within that radius are numerous world-class Southern California attractions as well as ski slopes and beaches.