1 Bones, cartilage, and ligaments make up the skeletal system. 2  The skeleton supports the body against the pull of gravity. 3  The skeleton provides a framework that supports and protects the soft organs of the body. 4  Bones work together with muscles to move the body. Ligaments are made of tough protein fibers and connect bones to each other. Your bones, cartilage, and ligaments make up your skeletal system. The skeletal system is made up of bones, cartilage, and ligaments. The skeletal system has many important functions in your body.
Lesson Summary. 1  Bones, cartilage, and ligaments make up the skeletal system. 2  The skeleton supports the body against the pull of gravity. 3  The skeleton provides a framework that supports and protects the soft organs of the body. 4  Bones work together with muscles to move the body. Ligaments are made of tough protein fibers and connect bones to each other. Your bones, cartilage, and ligaments make up your skeletal system. The skeletal system is made up of bones, cartilage, and ligaments. The skeletal system has many important functions in your body.
In anatomy, a ligament is the fibrous connective tissue that connects bones to other bones and is also known as articular ligament, articular larua, fibrous ligament, or true ligament. Ligament can also refer to: 1  Peritoneal ligament: a fold of peritoneum or other membranes. These are all found in the skeletal system of the human body. Ligaments cannot usually be regenerated naturally; however, there are periodontal ligament stem cells located near the periodontal ligament which are involved in the adult regeneration of periodontal ligament.
(Also Called 'Normal Structure and Function of the Musculoskeletal System-Anatomy'). A basic primer on bones, muscles, tendons, ligaments, nerves, and cartilages. The skeletal system includes the bones of the skeleton and the cartilages, ligaments, and other connective tissue that stabilize or connect the bones. 
Save. bone 202 image by chrisharvey from Fotolia.com. The skeletal system provides support to the body, protection to internal organs and aids in movement in conjunction with the muscular system. Bones, ligaments and cartilage are structural components of the system. By adulthood, the human body consists of 206 bones. Bones form the framework of the skeletal system and are responsible for manufacturing cellular blood components, such as red blood cells.
The musculoskeletal system provides form, support, stability, and movement to the body. It is made up of the bones of the skeleton, muscles, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, joints, and other connective tissue that supports and binds tissues and organs together. The musculoskeletal system's primary functions include supporting the body, allowing motion, and protecting vital organs. The human musculoskeletal system (also known as the locomotor system, and previously the activity system) is an organ system that gives humans the ability to move using their muscular and skeletal systems.
The skeletal system includes all of the bones and joints in the body. Each bone is a complex living organ that is made up of many cells, protein fibers, and minerals. The skeleton acts as a scaffold by providing support and protection for the soft tissues that make up the rest of the body. The skeletal system also provides attachment points for muscles to allow movements at the joints. New blood cells are produced by the red bone marrow inside of our bones. The skeletal system’s primary function is to form a solid framework that supports and protects the body's organs and anchors the skeletal muscles. The bones of the axial skeleton act as a hard shell to protect the internal organs—such as the brain and the heart —from damage caused by external forces.
The adult human skeletal system consists of 206 bones, as well as a network of tendons, ligaments and cartilage that connects them. The skeletal system performs vital functions — support, movement, protection, blood cell production, calcium storage and endocrine regulation — that enable us to survive. Teeth are considered part of the skeletal system but they are not counted as bones. Teeth are made of dentin and enamel, which is strongest substance in your body. Teeth also play a key role in the digestive system.
Our musculoskeletal system is made up of muscles, tendons, ligaments, bones, cartilage, joints and bursae. Our muscles work with the nervous system to contract when stimulated with impulses (messages through the receptor arc) from motor nerves. The muscles are attached to the bones with ligaments. 