There may be involvement of the hypocretin/orexin system in other disorders of sleep such as primary hypersomnolence, insomnia, and the Kleine-Levin syndrome, and a potential role in sleep disorders affecting the ageing population, , , , . The discovery of the orexins, orexin-A (Orx-A) and orexin-B (Orx-B), was reported almost simultaneously by Sakurai et al. who used the technique of orphan receptor cloning.
Orexin-A, also known as hypocretin-1, is a naturally occurring neuropeptide and orexin isoform. The orexinergic nucleus in the lateral hypothalamus is the primary orexin projection system in the brain. Taking orexin-A also increases arousal, alertness, attention, and muscle tone. Orexin-A has no effect on subjects who are well rested. The most important side effect orexin-A is thought to have is counteracting the effects of narcolepsy.
There are many different neurotransmitters in the wake and sleep pathways. Orexin is one of the wake neurotransmitters. Orexin is a central promoter of wakefulness. Orexin is a neurotransmitter that sends signals to other wake neurotransmitters to support their activity. 
The brain contains very few cells that produce orexin; there are about 10,000–20,000 orexin neurons in the human brain, which project out of the nucleus in the lateral hypothalamus. However, the axons from these neurons extend throughout the entire brain and spinal cord, where there are also receptors for orexin. Dogs that lack a functional receptor for orexin have narcolepsy, while animals and people lacking the orexin neuropeptide itself also have narcolepsy. Central administration of orexin-A strongly promotes wakefulness, increases body temperature and locomotion, and elicits a strong increase in energy expenditure.
One group named it orexin, from orexis, meaning appetite in Greek; the other group named it hypocretin, because it is produced in the hypo thalamus and bears a weak resemblance to secretin, another peptide. The scientific community has not yet settled on a consensus for which word to use. Dogs that lack a functional receptor for orexin have narcolepsy, while animals and people lacking the orexin neuropeptide itself also have narcolepsy. Central administration of orexin-A strongly promotes wakefulness, increases body temperature and locomotion, and elicits a strong increase in energy expenditure.
Orexin is a hormone in the brain named after its role in the appetite. The word is derived from the Greek term for appetite.. There are two types of orexin found in the brain, known as orexin-A and orexin-B; these compounds may also be referred to as hypocretins. Researchers are studying the role of these hormones in the body to learn more about them and to determine whether or not they have potential clinical and medical applications. There is some evidence that orexin may be useful for treating sleep disorders. Orexin may be used to treat sleep deprivation and narcolepsy. Studies with rats have demonstrated that those with more orexin receptors in their brains tend to be slimmer.
Sleep aids that target orexin action are known as “orexin receptor antagonists,” which means that they block the signaling of the chemical orexin in the brain. Orexin sleep aids block the brain’s receptors for the chemical orexin. Since they target a more localized area of the brain, the hope is that they will cause fewer side effects. Orexin Receptor Antagonists Differ from Standard Sleep Drugs by Promoting Sleep at Doses That Do Not Disrupt Cognition.
Orexin, also called hypocretin, is a neuropeptide that regulates arousal, wakefulness, and appetite. The most common form of narcolepsy, in which the sufferer briefly loses muscle tone (cataplexy), is caused by a lack of orexin in the brain due to destruction of the cells that produce it. Dogs that lack a functional receptor for orexin have narcolepsy, while animals and people lacking the orexin neuropeptide itself also have narcolepsy. Central administration of orexin-A strongly promotes wakefulness, increases body temperature and locomotion, and elicits a strong increase in energy expenditure.
Orexin should not be viewed as a quick fix for people who are trying to lose weight. Orexin involves the regulation of appetite. There is some evidence that orexin may be useful for treating sleep disorders. Orexin may be used to treat sleep deprivation and narcolepsy. Studies with rats have demonstrated that those with more orexin receptors in their brains tend to be slimmer.