The Bases of DNA. The four nitrogen bases found in DNA are adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine. Each of these bases are often abbreviated a single letter: A (adenine), C (cytosine), G (guanine), T (thymine). The bases come in two categories: thymine and cytosine are pyrimidines, while adenine and guanine are purines (). The pyrimidine structure is produced by a six-membered, two-nitrogen molecule; purine refers to a nine-membered, four-nitrogen molecule.
Base Pairing in DNA. The nitrogen bases form the double-strand of DNA through weak hydrogen bonds. The nitrogen bases, however, have specific shapes and hydrogen bond properties so that guanine and cytosine only bond with each other, while adenine and thymine also bond exclusively. The bases come in two categories: thymine and cytosine are pyrimidines, while adenine and guanine are purines (). The pyrimidine structure is produced by a six-membered, two-nitrogen molecule; purine refers to a nine-membered, four-nitrogen molecule.
Adenine and guanine are purine bases found in both DNA and RNA. Cytosine is a pyrimidine base found in both DNA and RNA. Thymine and uracil are pyrimidine bases found in only DNA or RNA, respectively. These five nitrogenous bases are all planar molecules, meaning that they are fairly flat and rigid. 
The polymer DNA is known as polynucleotide. Each of the monomers that makes up DNA, which are known as nucleotides, consist of a five-carbon sugar called deoxyribose, a nitrogen-containing base which is attached to the sugar and a phosphate group. DNA is made up of four different types of nucleotides. These differ from each other only in the nitrogenous bases
A DNA nucleotide is composed of 3 main units: a sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. While the sugar and phosphate group alternate in sequence and form the backbone of the DNA double helix, the nitrogenous bases may differ in every adjoining nucleotide. The four nitrogenous bases present in DNA are adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C) and thymine (T). In RNA, the only differing nitrogenous base is uracil (U) (which replaces thymine in DNA and differs thymine only by the missing methyl group at carbon 5 of the pyrimidine ring)
These nitrogenous bases are adenine (A), uracil (U), guanine (G), thymine (T), and cytosine (C). These nitrogenous bases hydrogen bond between opposing DNA strands to form the rungs of the twisted ladder or double helix of DNA or a biological catalyst that is found in the nucleotides. Adenine is always paired with thymine, and guanine is always paired with cytosine. These are known as base pairs.
The nitrogenous base found in DNA but not RNA is called thymine. RNA contains the base uracil which during transcription(when genetic information is copied from D … NA to RNA) pairs with the base adenine in DNA.   So, DNA has four nitrogenous bases: (A) adenine, (C) cytosine, G (guanine), and T (thymine). 
RNA nucleotides are defined by the sugar ribose, and contain a slightly different set of nitrogenous bases: adenine, guanine, cytosine, and uracil. RNA molecules do not contain thymine. Unlike DNA, RNA is usually present in a single-stranded form. Each nucleotide includes one nitrogenous base, attached to the 1’ carbon of the sugar. A nitrogenous base is an organic molecule containing both carbon and nitrogen atoms. The name nitrogenous base signifies that several nitrogen atoms act as bases in solution.
Uracil is in RNA and Thyramine is in DNA, the other nitrogen bases are the same In RNA Adenine is complementary to Uracil and Guanine is complementary to cytocine In DNA Adeni … ne is complementarty to Tyramine and Guanine is complentary to cytocine. Darkwater Darkwater. 9,357 Contributions. It is my favourite. 
1 A nitrogenous base Only four nitrogenous bases are present in DNA: thymine, cytosine, adenine and guanine. 2  The sugars and phosphates of the nucleotides bond strongly together to form a backbone to which these four bases connect, forming the rungs of the double helix. 1 A phosphate group. 2  A nitrogenous base Only four nitrogenous bases are present in DNA: thymine, cytosine, adenine and guanine. 3