Sections. Radial nerve roots originate from five spinal nerve roots that are located in the lower cervical (neck) and upper thoracic (upper back) segments of your spinal cord; these nerve roots eventually go on to form the radial nerve. The radial nerve is part of the brachial plexus. Vital to everyday arm movements, the radial nerve extends from the side of the neck where nerve roots are located and then travels through the shoulder, upper arm, elbow, forearm, wrist and hand – all while innervating adjacent tissues along its path.
To enter the forearm, the radial nerve moves anteriorly over the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, through the cubital fossa. Within the forearm, the nerve terminates by dividing into two branches: 1  Deep branch – A motor branch. Motor Functions. The radial nerve innervates muscles located in the arm and forearm. In the arm, it directly innervates the three heads of the triceps brachii. This muscle performs extension at the elbow. In the forearm, the deep branch of the radial nerve innervates the muscles in the posterior compartment of the forearm
The nerve will first give off branches to the medial head of the triceps brachii and then enter a groove on the humerus, the radial sulcus (AKA spiral groove), where it innervates the lateral head of the triceps. It is commonly believed that the radial nerve also provided motor innervation to the long head of the triceps. However, a study conducted in 2004 determined that, in 20 cadaveric specimens and 15 surgical dissections on participants, the long head was innervated by a branch of the axillary nerve in all cases.
The radial nerve (and its deep branch) provides motor innervation to the muscles in the posterior compartment of the arm and forearm, which are mostly extensors. It is commonly believed that the radial nerve also provided motor innervation to the long head of the triceps. However, a study conducted in 2004 determined that, in 20 cadaveric specimens and 15 surgical dissections on participants, the long head was innervated by a branch of the axillary nerve in all cases.
The radial nerve then descends down the arm, travelling in a shallow depression on the surface of the humerus. This depression is known as the radial groove. As it moves inferiorly, the radial nerve wraps around the humerus in a lateral direction, and gives a branch to the lateral head of the triceps brachii. During its course in the arm, the nerve is accompanied by the deep branch of the brachial artery. Motor Functions. The radial nerve innervates muscles located in the arm and forearm. In the arm, it directly innervates the three heads of the triceps brachii. This muscle performs extension at the elbow. In the forearm, the deep branch of the radial nerve innervates the muscles in the posterior compartment of the forearm
The radial nerve divides into a deep branch, which becomes the posterior interosseous nerve, and a superficial branch, which goes on to innervate the dorsum (back) of the hand. It is commonly believed that the radial nerve also provided motor innervation to the long head of the triceps. However, a study conducted in 2004 determined that, in 20 cadaveric specimens and 15 surgical dissections on participants, the long head was innervated by a branch of the axillary nerve in all cases.
The radial nerve originates as a terminal branch of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. It goes through the arm, first in the posterior compartment of the arm, and later in the anterior compartment of the arm, and continues in the posterior compartment of the forearm. It is commonly believed that the radial nerve also provided motor innervation to the long head of the triceps. However, a study conducted in 2004 determined that, in 20 cadaveric specimens and 15 surgical dissections on participants, the long head was innervated by a branch of the axillary nerve in all cases.
All radial muscles are supplied by the radial nerve (C5-C8) which courses between the brachioradialis and brachialis to the elbow and there divides into a deep branch and a superficial branch at the height of the radial head. The three radial muscles are: 1  Brachioradialis muscle: originates at the lateral supracondylar ridge (between the brachialis and lateral head of the triceps) and the lateral intermuscular septum of the humerus and inserts at the styloid process of the radius.