Confidence votes 77.7K. Seasoning salt is a general term for a mixture of salt and some other flavor enhancers like pepper. The label on the package should list the ingredients, although it might just say and other herbs/spices because there is such a small amount of them in the product. It is possible to make your own seasoning salt
Seasoned salt refers to a mixture consisting of table salt along with various herbs, spices and flavorings. Common seasonings used in the blend include garlic, onion and parsley. Paprika is regularly included and gives the salt its distinctive reddish hue. Parsley is commonly used in seasoned salt. The paprika in a seasoned salt mix gives it a reddish hue. Most variety of seasoned salt contain table salt. Seasoned sea salt.
Seasoned salt is a blend of table salt, herbs, spices, other flavourings, and sometimes monosodium glutamate (MSG). Chip spice is also another variation, which originated in Kingston upon Hull and mainly contains salt and spices (such as paprika) but also contains tomato powder. Seasoned salt is often the standard seasoning on foods such as chicken, chips, deep-fried seafood, and potatoes. Most take-away shops also offer the option of normal salt. Chicken salt, as sold in Australia and New Zealand, generally contains chicken extracts, which are listed as the second ingredient after salt
4 tablespoons of kosher salt. 2 tablespoons of black pepper. 2 tablespoons of dried parsley. 1 teaspoon of cayenne. 1 teaspoon of paprika. 1 teaspoon of onion powder. 1 teaspoon of garlic powder. 1 teaspoon of celery salt. Mix all of the ingredients together, and store in an airtight container. Have gone thru 2 batches of your seasoned salt and was bragging it up to my brother. Of course he wanted the recipe and of course I could not find my copy and of course I could not remember the name of your site, so you can imagine how happy I was of course(after a couple of hours of looking) to find you. Thanks.
Recipe for seasoned salt with salt, thyme, garlic salt, onion powder, and other herbs and seasonings. 
Typical seasoned salt. Lawry's, the most common brand of seasoned salt in the US. Seasoned salt is a blend of table salt, herbs, spices, other flavourings, and sometimes monosodium glutamate (MSG). It is sold in supermarkets and is commonly used in fish and chip shops and other take-away food shops. Chip spice is also another variation, which originated in Kingston upon Hull and mainly contains salt and spices (such as paprika) but also contains tomato powder. Seasoned salt is often the standard seasoning on foods such as chicken, chips, deep-fried seafood, and potatoes. Most take-away shops also offer the option of normal salt. Chicken salt, as sold in Australia and New Zealand, generally contains chicken extracts, which are listed as the second ingredient after salt
Seasoned Salt was created in 1938 to season prime ribs of beef served at the world-famous LAWRY'S® The Prime Rib restaurant in Beverly Hills, CA. Lawry’s unique blend of salt, spices and herbs taste great on prime ribs, steaks, chicken and casseroles. The possibilities are endless. 
Paprika is commonly used in seasoned salt blends. Parsley is commonly used in seasoned salt. The paprika in a seasoned salt mix gives it a reddish hue. Most variety of seasoned salt contain table salt. Seasoned sea salt.