When leasing a commercial vehicle for business purposes, the leasing expenses do not affect the company’s financial ratios. This allows you to keep a higher credit balance so that your credit can be used in other areas that are necessary for purchasing or business expenses. First Time Truck Buyers. Many first time commercial truck buyers are happy to purchase a used vehicle. This allows them to save additional money that can be used towards the purchase of a new vehicle later on, or to choose to invest the money into growing their new business venture. Step 1.
There are a number of fees and costs associated with leasing a semi-truck. You’ll make weekly or monthly payments for the truck itself. Then there’s the cost of insurance, fuel, and maintenance. Lease payments usually run between $1,000 and $2,500 per month, depending on the type of truck. However, some leasing companies will require weekly payments. 1  A new truck can usually be leased for $1,600 to $2,500 per month. 2  A used truck often goes for $800 to $1,600 per month
Our Lease Kit contains a full list of average car and truck residual values and lease ratings. You can expect lease payments on your truck to be approximately 30%-60% less than comparable loan payments for the same vehicle, same terms. If you watch for manufacturer-sponsored lease deals, you can get even better terms. See Best Car Deals for details on current manufacturer offers. Monthly payments are higher than for personal leases and lease-end cost risk is higher. However, these costs are tax deductible if the vehicle is used for business purposes. Commercial truck and van leases are available from companies who specialize in fleet leasing, commercial equipment leasing, and commercial rentals.
How Much does a Used Semi Truck Cost? The range on commercial trucks is pretty large, and depends on the age, condition, model, and miles on the truck. In general, almost new models can run up to $100,000, while a 7-year old truck is often between $40,000 and $60,000. Paying huge interest rates on a truck could mean paying a $2,000 truck payment versus a $1,500 payment if you had better credit. That means taking home $8,000 instead of $8,500 a month driving your own rig, versus taking home $4,000 driving a truck that someone else owns.
Depending on the length of the term and interest rates, the monthly lease payment for the above example can be $200-$300 less than a comparable term loan. Another difference is what happens at the end of the term. When you make the last loan payment, you own the vehicle outright. (Note: A lease may also include a refundable security deposit, a non-refundable acquisition fee [see sidebar for definition] and other miscellaneous fees, which are not reflected in the example above.). The bank loan balance is $31,800 to purchase the vehicle, while the lease balance is $18,000 to use the vehicle.
Lease vs. Loan. One way to understand “leasing” is to compare it with a conventional bank loan. For example, take a vehicle with a purchase price of $30,000. Here’s what the numbers could look like for a loan. ■ Total truck price, including any dealer and miscellaneous fees: $30,000. (Note: A lease may also include a refundable security deposit, a non-refundable acquisition fee [see sidebar for definition] and other miscellaneous fees, which are not reflected in the example above.). The bank loan balance is $31,800 to purchase the vehicle, while the lease balance is $18,000 to use the vehicle.
A commercial truck lease does have some benefits. The monthly payments are lower than a loan, since you are not paying for the cost of the vehicle. A commercial truck lease generally will not require a down payment. Plus, a commercial truck lease allows you to avoid debt and gives you the option to upgrade to a better vehicle once the term of the lease is up. The purchase price of the truck will be for its residual value, which is determined in the original paperwork of the commercial truck lease. The idea is that the purchase price of the truck would be less than buying it outright, much like having a rent to own contract on a home.
■ Adjusted cap cost: $30,000 (Since there is no cap cost reduction in this example.). ■ Assume the residual (projected vehicle disposal) value at lease end is $12,000. ■ Subtract the residual from the adjusted cap cost, and the total lease balance is $18,000. (Note: A lease may also include a refundable security deposit, a non-refundable acquisition fee [see sidebar for definition] and other miscellaneous fees, which are not reflected in the example above.). The bank loan balance is $31,800 to purchase the vehicle, while the lease balance is $18,000 to use the vehicle.
Often times the only difference is the price tag which can reflect a difference of tens of thousands of dollars. The average cost of a new commercial truck can range from $30,000 up to as much as $250,000 depending on the extra options that are selected for the vehicle. The used vehicle options that are available in the line of commercial trucks are at an all-time high. First Time Truck Buyers. Many first time commercial truck buyers are happy to purchase a used vehicle. This allows them to save additional money that can be used towards the purchase of a new vehicle later on, or to choose to invest the money into growing their new business venture. Step 1.
Budget about $800 to $1,500 a month for collision coverage. Costs like fuel and routine maintenance are tough to estimate because they depend on how often and how far you travel, but be sure to estimate how much you’ll spend and factor that into the overall cost of leasing a truck. Then there’s the cost of insurance, fuel, and maintenance. Lease payments usually run between $1,000 and $2,500 per month, depending on the type of truck. However, some leasing companies will require weekly payments.