Step 2. Press Ctrl-C to copy the highlighted text. Related Reading: How to Get Rid of the Chat Box at the Bottom of Facebook. Step 3. Open Microsoft Word or a text editor of your choice and press Ctrl-V to paste the chat text into the document. How to Copy Text From Facebook Chat. One of the ways that Facebook makes it possible for you to communicate with friends is through the use of real-time chat. When you chat with a friend, the conversation appears in a chat window in the lower right corner of the screen. Facebook doesn't offer a way to save your chat transcript to your computer, but you can copy and paste the conversation into a text document if want to save it for later. Step 1. Hold down the left mouse button and drag the cursor up in the Facebook chat box to highlight your chat text. Step 2
1. Find the text or link address that you want to paste into Facebook. Highlight that information by clicking and dragging over it with the cursor on your mouse. Ad. 2. Right click with your mouse. Select “Copy” from the drop down menu. 1  Press the Control key and the letter “c” simultaneously to copy information quickly on a Windows computer. 2  Press the Command key and the letter “c” simultaneously to copy information using the keyboard on a Mac computer
Copying a Facebook message takes just a few seconds. Step 1. Log in to your Facebook account and click Messages in the Favorites section to view your messages. Step 2. Click the name of the contact that sent you the message to view all his messages. Related Reading: How to Send a Message to a Fan From a Business on Facebook. Step 3. Triple-click anywhere on the text of the message to select the entire message. Alternatively, click the beginning of the message and, while holding the left click, drag the cursor to the end of the message. 
Instructions. Navigate your web browser to www.facebook.com and click the Chat tab in the bottom-right corner of the page to open a list of friends who are online. Click on a friend's name to open a new chat window and begin to chat. Click and drag to highlight chat text you wish to copy. Right-click the highlighted text and click Copy in the popup menu. The text will be copied to your computer's internal clipboard. Open Microsoft Word, Notepad, or any other word-processing application. Right-click the application's program window and click Paste in the popup menu
From notepad, copy and selected everything with CTRL+ C. 3) Then go to Facebook notes and push CTRL+ V to paste. That will paste your NOTEPAD TEXT.....Apparently Facebook doesn't support WORD anymore. But I've found out NOTEPAD doesn't have any issues if you copy and paste it into the note section. 
From notepad, copy and selected everything with CTRL+ C. 3) Then go to Facebook notes and push CTRL+ V to paste. That will paste your NOTEPAD TEXT.....Apparently Facebook doesn't support WORD anymore. But I've found out NOTEPAD doesn't have any issues if you copy and paste it into the note section. Okay....You can push CTRL + C to copy it from your word. Then to put it on Notes, paste by using CTRL+ V....Only problem is when you paste and push PREVIEW it will mesh some words together. So say you have a sentence I have written a note in a .doc format.
‘ Enable Copy text in Facebook’ is a tweak that allows jailbroken iOS devices to capture the text directly from Facebook posts themselves…. The tweak works as you would expect. Just hold your finger over a post, and you will get an alert informing you that the text has been saved to the clipboard. 