Adult soft tissue sarcomas can form almost anywhere in the body, but are most common in the head, neck, arms, legs, trunk, and abdomen. Soft tissue sarcoma forms in soft tissues of the body, including muscle, tendons, fat, blood vessels, lymph vessels, nerves, and tissue around joints. Key Points. 1  Adult soft tissue sarcoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the soft tissues of the body. 2  Having certain inherited disorders can increase the risk of adult soft tissue sarcoma. 3  A sign of adult soft tissue sarcoma is a lump or swelling in soft tissue of the body.
Synovial sarcoma is a rare tumor. It is one of many types of cancer classified as a soft tissue sarcoma, cancer that originates in soft tissue which includes fat, muscles, tendons, nerves, synovial tissue, blood vessels and other fibrous tissue. The most common location of origin is the thigh near the knee, but synovial sarcoma can also occur near other joints, mainly in the arms and legs. Despite its name, it seldom arises within a joint. Synovial sarcoma can spread (metastasize) to other areas of the body, particularly to involve regional lymph nodes.
1 Clear cell sarcoma is a rare cancer that often develops in tendons of the arms or legs. 2  Under the microscope, it has some features of malignant melanoma, a type of cancer that develops from pigment-producing skin cells. 3  How cancers with these features start in parts of the body other than the skin is not known. There are many types of soft tissue tumors, and not all of them are cancerous. When the term sarcoma is part of the name of a disease, it means the tumor is malignant (cancer). Some soft tissue tumors behave in way in between a cancer and a non-cancer.
A sarcoma is a type of cancer that develops from certain tissues, like bone or muscle. Bone and soft tissue sarcomas are the main types of sarcoma. Soft tissue sarcomas can develop from soft tissues like fat, muscle, nerves, fibrous tissues, blood vessels, or deep skin tissues. They can be found in any part of the body. There are many types of soft tissue tumors, and not all of them are cancerous. When the term sarcoma is part of the name of a disease, it means the tumor is malignant (cancer). Some soft tissue tumors behave in way in between a cancer and a non-cancer.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma Subtypes. Soft-tissue sarcomas are more common than bone sarcomas. The 50 different types of soft-tissue sarcomas differ in terms of their tissue of origin, clinical behavior, age of occurrence, aggressiveness, the way they spread, genetic alterations, and their sensitivity to certain therapies. 
Bone cancer is a malignant (cancerous) tumor of the bone that destroys normal bone tissue (1). Not all bone tumors are malignant. In fact, benign (noncancerous) bone tumors are more common than malignant ones. Both malignant and benign bone tumors may grow and compress healthy bone tissue, but benign tumors do not spread, do not destroy bone tissue, and are rarely a threat to life. Malignant tumors that begin in bone tissue are called primary bone cancer.
Soft tissue sarcoma is a rare cancer that starts in the soft tissues of the body, such as the fat, muscles, nerves, tendons, and blood and lymph vessels. Sarcomas can happen anywhere in the body, although close to half (about 40 percent) occur in the arms and legs. 
Due to its rarity, it is crucial for patients to seek a cancer specialist in the treatment of their disease. Soft tissue sarcoma can occur in the muscles, fat, blood vessels, tendons, fibrous tissues and synovial tissues (tissues around joints). About 40 percent occur in the legs usually at or above the kne
Soft Tissue Sarcoma is a rare form of cancer. It comprises approximately one percent of all cancers diagnosed. According to the National Cancer Institute, there are approximately 11,280 new cases of soft tissue sarcoma in the United States each year and approximately 3,900 people die of the disease each year. Soft tissue sarcoma can occur in the muscles, fat, blood vessels, tendons, fibrous tissues and synovial tissues (tissues around joints).