Manufacturers and importers of certain general use products (i.e., non-children’s products) for which consumer product safety rules apply, must certify, in a written General Certificate of Conformity (GCC) based on testing or a reasonable testing program, that their products comply with those applicable rules. The GCC and supporting test reports must be in English. 1  The list of non-children's (general use) products requiring a certificate is found here. 2  See our frequently asked questions (FAQs) about GCCs.
A Declaration of Conformity is the document that the manufacturer must enclose with (or attach to) any equipment or protective system that is being sold in compliance with the requirements of the ATEX Directive 94/9/EC. 
The Certificate. Certificate of Conformity to Technical Regulation which is also called the Quality Certificate, Safety Certificate of the Customs Certificate appears to be the document that proves that the products or services correspond to law requirements of safety and quality in Russia. Certificate of Conformity to Technical Regulation may be given only by an authorized organ in the sphere of certification. The document may be given for the period of 1, 2 or 3 years in the case of series production.
Certification is the provision by an independent body of written assurance (a certificate) that the product, service or system in question meets specific requirements. Certification is also known as third party conformity assessment. Many companies and organizations decide to get certified to one of ISO’s management system standards, such as ISO 9001. This is a way of showing outsiders that the organisation has an effective quality management system in place.
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has implemented the Product Conformity Program (PCP) [formerly known as SASO (Saudi Arabian Standards Organization)] for certain regulated products for commercial use. A Certificate of Conformity (CoC) is required from internationally accredited laboratories (e.g., Intertek or SGS) for certain regulated consumer products exported into the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (Kingdom).
For all exports to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia a Conformity Assessment Programme has been implemented. All products require a Certificate of Conformity also referred to as a SASO CoC to enable them to be cleared through Saudi Customs. Intertek continues to support The Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MoCI) in Saudi Arabia by being a service provider for its Conformity Assessment Programme. The Saudi Arabia Conformity Assessment Programme, which covers all goods, has a number of key objectives: 
A Certificate of Conformity or CoC is a mandatory document which is necessary for Customs clearance of exports to many countries around the globe. The Certificate of Conformity shows that the goods being exported comply with the relevant technical regulations and national, regional or international standards of the country of import. The Certificate of Conformity is a mandatory document which is necessary for Customs clearance: 1  Certificate of Conformity for Exports to Algeria. 2  Certificate of Conformity for Exports to Botswana. 3  Certificate of Inspection for Exports to Egypt. 4  Certificate of Conformity for Exports to Ethiopia
1 Certificate of Conformity: A document issued by SASO confirming that the product to which the Certificate refers conforms to the relevant technical regulations or standards. 2  Consignment: A specified batch of production of a product for export, import or domestic use. Article 3 of SASO by-laws issued in accordance with the Royal Decree No. M/10 dated 03/03/1392H, states that SASO is empowered to lay down rules for granting Certificates of Conformity and Quality Marks and to organize the issuance and rights of use of such certificates and marks. The use of the mark is optional.
Type Approval or Certificate of Conformity is granted to a product that meets a minimum set of regulatory, technical and safety requirements. Compliance to type-approval requirements can be denoted by a third-party marking on the back of the product (e.g. UL, TUV, CSA), or by a Type-Approval certificate obtained by a manufacturer and kept on file.