A relative of the mongoose, the fossa is unique to the forests of Madagascar, an African island in the Indian Ocean. Growing up to 6 feet (1.8 meters) long from nose to tail tip, and weighing up to 26 pounds (12 kilograms), the fossa is a slender-bodied catlike creature with little resemblance to its mongoose cousins. 
trochlear fossa A small depression in the frontal bone which contains the pulley (or trochlea), a cartilaginous structure surrounded by a thick fibrous sheath 1 mm thick and through which passes the superior oblique muscle. The fossa is located about 4 mm behind the medial upper margin of the orbit. The fossa is located behind the zygomatic process of the frontal bone in the anterior and lateral part of the orbital roof. fossa for the lacrimal sac A vertical groove, some 5 mm deep and about 14 mm high, formed by the frontal process of the maxilla and lacrimal bones and which contains the lacrimal sac.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In anatomy, a fossa (/ˈfɒsə/ ; plural fossas /ˈfɒsəz/ , or fossae (/ˈfɒsiː/ or /ˈfɒsaɪ/); from the Latin  fossa , ditch or trench) is a depression or hollow, usually in a bone, such as the hypophyseal fossa (the depression in the sphenoid bone). Some examples include: In the Skull: 1  Cranial fossa. 
Definition of FOSSA. : a slender long-tailed carnivorous mammal (Cryptoprocta ferox) of Madagascar that has retractile claws and is often grouped with the mongooses or placed in a related family (Eupleridae).
The Fossa is the largest land predator on the island of Madagascar with some individuals growing to nearly two meters in length from their snout to the tip of their long and slender tail. The Fossa is a solitary and nocturnal mammal that patrols territories as large as four square kilometres and marks their presence with scent released from their large anal gland.
ovarian fossa a shallow pouch on the posterior surface of the broad ligament, in which the ovary is located. popliteal fossa the depression in the posterior region of the knee. rhomboid fossa the floor of the fourth ventricle, made up of the dorsal surfaces of the medulla oblongata and pons. The fossa is located behind the zygomatic process of the frontal bone in the anterior and lateral part of the orbital roof. fossa for the lacrimal sac A vertical groove, some 5 mm deep and about 14 mm high, formed by the frontal process of the maxilla and lacrimal bones and which contains the lacrimal sac.
The fossa (/ˈfɒsə/ or /ˈfuːsə/ ; Malagasy [ˈfusə̥] ; Cryptoprocta ferox) is a cat-like, carnivorous mammal endemic to Madagascar. It is a member of the Eupleridae, a family of carnivorans closely related to the mongoose family (Herpestidae). The fossa appears as a diminutive form of a large felid, such as a cougar, but with a slender body and muscular limbs, and a tail nearly as long as the rest of the body. It has a mongoose-like head, relatively longer than that of a cat, although with a muzzle that is broad and short, and with large but rounded ears.
The fossa (Cryptoprocta ferox) is the largest carnivore native to the island of Madagascar with a body length of 60 - 76 cm. It has a cat-like head, rounded ears, relatively short face, smooth reddish-brown coat, retractable claws and strong jaws and teeth. 
subarcuate fossa of temporal bone a depression in the posterior inner surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. subsigmoid fossa a fossa between the mesentery of the sigmoid flexure and that of the descending colon. The fossa is located behind the zygomatic process of the frontal bone in the anterior and lateral part of the orbital roof. fossa for the lacrimal sac A vertical groove, some 5 mm deep and about 14 mm high, formed by the frontal process of the maxilla and lacrimal bones and which contains the lacrimal sac.
Fossa Classification and Evolution The Fossa is a medium-sized carnivore that is found exclusively on the island of Madagascar. The Fossa belongs to the Malagasy Carnivores group which are thought to have descended from Mongoose-like ancestors that arrived on Madagascar from Africa up to 24 million years ago. The Fossa is a solitary and nocturnal mammal that patrols territories as large as four square kilometres and marks their presence with scent released from their large anal gland.