As defined by the W3C Namespaces in XML Recommendation, an XML namespace is a collection of XML elements and attributes identified by an Internationalized Resource Identifier (IRI); this collection is often referred to as an XML vocabulary.. XML Schema is used to create a vocabulary for an XML instance, and uses namespaces heavily. Thus, having a sound grasp of the namespace concept is essential for understanding XML Schema and instance validation overall.
They are defined in a W3C recommendation. An XML instance may contain element or attribute names from more than one XML vocabulary. If each vocabulary is given a namespace, the ambiguity between identically named elements or attributes can be resolved. For example, the following declaration maps the xhtml: prefix to the XHTML namespace: Any element or attribute whose name starts with the prefix xhtml: is considered to be in the XHTML namespace, if it or an ancestor has the above namespace declaration.
If the element and/ or attribute belong to a namespace, a colon (:) is placed between the namespace prefix and the element name/ attribute name. As a test, let's take the previous employeeList XML document as an example, and provide a namespace declaration and an element belonging to the namespace. The name element in the employee XML document is defined as an element representing the employee's name, whereas the name element of the section XML document is defined as an element representing a department name. In merging these two XML documents, you will get a name element that has two separate meanings.
In the example above: When a namespace is defined for an element, all child elements with the same prefix are associated with the same namespace. Namespaces can also be declared the XML root element: xmlns:h=http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/. Note: The namespace URI is not used by the parser to look up information. The purpose of using an URI is to give the namespace a unique name. When using prefixes in XML, a namespace for the prefix must be defined. The namespace can be defined by an xmlns attribute in the start tag of an element. The namespace declaration has the following syntax.
[ Definition: An XML namespace is identified by a URI reference [RFC3986] ; element and attribute names may be placed in an XML namespace using the mechanisms described in this specification. ]. [ Definition: An expanded name is a pair consisting of a namespace name and a local name. An example namespace declaration, which associates the namespace prefix edi with the namespace name http://ecommerce.example.org/schema : Namespace constraint: Reserved Prefixes and Namespace Names. The prefix xml is by definition bound to the namespace name http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace.
XML namespaces are used for providing uniquely named elements and attributes in an XML document. For example, the following declaration maps the xhtml: prefix to the XHTML namespace: Any element or attribute whose name starts with the prefix xhtml: is considered to be in the XHTML namespace, if it or an ancestor has the above namespace declaration.
January 14th saw the arrival of a new W3C Recommendation, Namespaces in XML. Recommendation is the final step in the W3C process; the status means that the document is done, frozen, agreed-upon and official. 
Namespaces in Real Use. XSLT is a language that can be used to transform XML documents into other formats. The XML document below, is a document used to transform XML into HTML. The namespace http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform identifies XSLT elements inside an HTML document: When using prefixes in XML, a namespace for the prefix must be defined. The namespace can be defined by an xmlns attribute in the start tag of an element. The namespace declaration has the following syntax.
Using the Extensible Markup Language (XML), an XML namespace is a collection of element type and attribute names. These element types and attribute names are uniquely identified by the name of the unique XML namespace of which they are a part. In XML, a namespace is commonly given the name of a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) - such as a Web site's address-both because the namespace may be associated with the site or page of that URI (for example, a company name) and because a URI is conveniently likely to be a unique name.
We will be discussing XML Namespace in this volume. XML Namespace is a mechanism to avoid name conflicts by differentiating elements or attributes within an XML document that may have identical names, but different definitions. We will be covering the basics of namespace, including declaration methods, scope, attribute namespace, and default namespace. The name element in the employee XML document is defined as an element representing the employee's name, whereas the name element of the section XML document is defined as an element representing a department name. In merging these two XML documents, you will get a name element that has two separate meanings.