Air-Source Heat Pumps. An air-source heat pump can provide efficient heating and cooling for your home. When properly installed, an air-source heat pump can deliver one-and-a-half to three times more heat energy to a home than the electrical energy it consumes. This is possible because a heat pump moves heat rather than converting it from a fuel like combustion heating systems do.
Heat Pumps for year round comfort in Seattle. There’s nothing like a heat pump for air conditioning in Seattle summers and for heating in the Northwest winter. There are 2 popular kinds of heat pumps used in Seattle, the air source or ducted heat pump and the ductless heat pump. We’ll discuss both. A heat pump is energy efficient. Heat pump manufacturers say a heat pump can save you 30% on overall cost of heating and cooling your home. Most Seattle utilities agree and have provided heat pump rebates. In fact PSE customers who replace their electric furnace with a forced air heat pump can get up to $1000
Types of heat pumps. An air source heat pump can provide whole-house heating and cooling when it is fully-ducted throughout the home. These systems are ideal for new home construction, or added to existing forced-air systems. Adding a heat pump to a forced-air furnace will optimize the efficiency of the heating system. A ductless heat pump (or mini-split system) makes a good retrofit to homes with “non-ducted” heating systems. Since they have no ducts, they avoid the energy losses associated with ductwork of central forced air systems.
The ducted system can be installed in a new home or tailored to suit an existing one, and once installed, only the controller, the return air and discharge grilles are visible inside your home. Daikin Ducted Heat Pumps consist of an indoor and outdoor unit and flexible ducting. Flexibility. Flexibility. Daikin Ducted Air Conditioners provide you with the flexibility to heat or cool every room in your home. Your home can be 'zoned' to maximise energy efficiency and you can customise your air conditioner's operation to suit your lifestyle-how you 'zone' your home is completely up to you.
1 B. Ducted heat pumps have an outdoor unit connected to a building’s ductwork. 2  Like ductless heat pumps, ducted heat pumps can both heat and cool buildings. 3  Ground-source heat pumps or “geothermal” heat pumps draw heat from the soil or groundwater and transfer it to a ducted air distribution system or radiators. 1 Low-cost heat – The cost of heating with a heat pump is similar to heating with natural gas or wood. 2  This is typically half the cost of heating with oil, kerosene, electric baseboard or propane. 3  Click here to compare heating costs of different heating systems.
Ductless, Mini-Split Heat Pumps. Ductless, mini-split-system heat pumps (mini splits) make good retrofit add-ons to houses with non-ducted heating systems, such as hydronic (hot water heat), radiant panels, and space heaters (wood, kerosene, propane). Be sure to choose an ENERGY STAR® compliant unit and hire an installer familiar with the product and its installation. Like standard air-source heat pumps, mini splits have two main components -- an outdoor compressor/condenser and an indoor air-handling unit.
A ducted heat pump replaces your current forced air furnace and connects (often with a few slight modifications) to your current duct work. Like ductless mini split heat pumps a ducted system still has an exterior unit that will be installed outside your home. Since heat pumps aren’t using electricity to actually create heat, rather just extract it from outside and then blow it through your duct work, your costs for home heating will be less then if you stay on oil. Built in Backup: Ducted systems generally have a built in emergency heating backup system.
A ducted heat pump can deliver 1.5 to over 3 times more heat energy to a home than the electric energy it consumes. This is possible because a heat pump moves heat from the air rather than converting it from a fuel, like in combustion heating systems. This cycle can be reversed in the summer to cool your home. The mild Pacific Northwest climate provides ideal conditions for high-efficiency heat pumps. 1  Save energy and money. 2  If you heat with electricity, a heat pump can reduce the amount of energy you use for heating by as much as 30%-40%. 1 Save energy and money. 2  If you heat with electricity, a heat pump can reduce the amount of energy you use for heating by as much as 30%-40%. 3  Comfort. 4  Heat pumps deliver constant, even temperatures and also balance humidity.