Updated May 23, 2012 (by Editor). The Euro sign or symbol (€) is not difficult to insert into a Microsoft Word document. To type the Euro symbol (€) in Microsoft Word for Windows, press CRTL + ALT + E. Additional Resources: 1  Instructions on how to type the Euro symbol in U.S. version of Windows. 2  Instructions on how to print the Euro symbol. 3  More on typing the Euro Symbol. 
Configure your keyboard layout in Windows so that you can type all additional symbols you want as easy as any other text. Takes about 5-10 minutes to set things up, but you'll be typing like a boss. You can assign euro symbol € and any other text characters to your keyboard using this technique. Character Map. MS Windows Character map. CharMap allows you to view and use all characters and symbols available in all fonts (some examples of fonts are Arial, Times New Roman, Webdings) installed on your computer. You can input euro symbol using it.
Click on the Euro sign in the character map or palette, copy it, and paste it into your document. Step 5: Copy and paste. Find a Euro sign on another document or web page, copy it, and paste it into your document. You may have to change the font and size, but your monetary symbols will be accurate. If you're a jet-setter or an international businessperson, you need to be able to type foreign currency symbols. There are simple methods to type the Euro sign on an American computer. Step 1: Hold down the alt key. Hold down the Alt key if you are using a PC with a standard U.S. keyboard. Press the Option key on a Mac. Tip. If you are using a U.S.-International keyboard layout hold down the AltGr key
Dear Tamara, To type the Euro sign in Windows, you press the alt key+0128. As for the Sterling pound symbol, you can type it by pressing the alt key+0163. 
The Knowhow. Most keyboards have the Euro symbol on the 4 key at the top of your keyboard, but some combine it with the 5 or the E key. To add € you need to use one of the following key combinations, replacing the 4 with the appropriate key if your layout differs: Hold Alt Gr and 4. Hold Ctrl and Alt, then press 4
Euro sign €. Euro used in economics and banking, in shops all over European Union and is the second biggest currency in the world after U.S. dollar. That is why it's got a computer text symbol for it. And you can type € euro text symbol right from your keyboard. Continue reading and I'll show you how to do it by using different techniques depending on your Operating System and tastes. Character Map. MS Windows Character map. CharMap allows you to view and use all characters and symbols available in all fonts (some examples of fonts are Arial, Times New Roman, Webdings) installed on your computer. You can input euro symbol using it.