The exchanging of gases that takes place between the air and the blood in the alveoli of the lungs. It occurs through diffusion. Oxygen moves from the air into the blood whilst carbon dioxide moves out of the blood into the air. This means the blood and the air are separated by a membrane only one micron (0.001mm) thick. Gas exchange occurs by diffusion which is a slow process. Diffusion occurs because of the movement of particles. Gases diffuse from the air into the blood in solution.
Water vapor is also excreted through the lungs, due to humidification of inspired air by the lung tissues. Molecules with a high affinity for hemoglobin, such as carbon monoxide, can be added to the blood in high concentrations. Red blood cells transit the alveolar capillaries in about 3/4 of a second. Oxygen moves from the alveoli (high oxygen concentration) to the blood (lower oxygen concentration). Conversely, carbon dioxide has a higher concentration in the blood than in the air. The oxygen first dissolves in the fluid in the interstitial tissues and diffuses into the blood.
1 Respiration includes gas exchange in the lungs, circulation of gases through the blood stream, and transfer of gases at the cellular level. 2  Air is drawn into the air sacs of the lungs, where oxygen from the air can enter the blood. 3  Carbon dioxide exits from the blood into the alveolar air. 1 Oxygen then diffuses into the cells, and carbon dioxide enters the blood. 2  The blood then circulates back to the lung, where the process begins again. 3  Definition of Ventilation Ventilation is the process of moving gases through the respiratory tract.
FUNCTIONThe alveoli allow this gas exchange to occur. Each alveoli has a network of capillaries that carry oxygen-poor red blood cells. The capillaries bring the red blood cells very close to the air space in the alveoli. The air in the alveoli is oxygen rich. Oxygen moves from the alveolar space into the red blood cell by diffusion. This can happen very quickly because the surface are of the alveoli is large and the membranes separating the lungs from the red blood cells are very thin. Oxygen moves from the alveoli (high oxygen concentration) to the blood (lower oxygen concentration). Conversely, carbon dioxide has a higher concentration in the blood than in the air. The oxygen first dissolves in the fluid in the interstitial tissues and diffuses into the blood.
A diagram of an alveolus. In the alveolus oxygen diffuses from the air into the blood and carbon dioxide diffuses in the opposite direction. This structure of about 300 million alveoli greatly increases the surface area of the lungs so speeding up the rate of gas exchange. This means the blood and the air are separated by a membrane only one micron (0.001mm) thick. Gas exchange occurs by diffusion which is a slow process. Diffusion occurs because of the movement of particles. Gases diffuse from the air into the blood in solution.
With each inhalation, air fills a large portion of the millions of alveoli. In a process called diffusion (pronounced: dih-fyoo-zhun), oxygen moves from the alveoli to the blo … od through the capillaries (tiny blood vessels, pronounced: kah-puh-ler-eez) that line the alveolar walls. The thin walls of the alveoli actually have two purposes. When we  breathe in, oxygen passes through the walls of the alveoli and into  the blood. Carbon dioxide and water vapor then travel the opposite  direction
When we breathe in, oxygen passes through the walls of the alveoli and into the blood. Carbon dioxide and water vapor then travel the opposite direction. They are the main waste products that pass from the blood vessels (arteries) in the lungs, into the alveoli, through the windpipe and out the nose and mouth. The thin walls of the alveoli actually have two purposes. When we  breathe in, oxygen passes through the walls of the alveoli and into  the blood. Carbon dioxide and water vapor then travel the opposite  direction
ventilation – the movement of air into and out of the lungs. gas exchange – the 'swapping’ of gases between the alveolar [alveolar air: The air in the alveoli.] air and the blood. The lungs are located within the upper part of your body called the thorax. Next. To supply the cells of our body with a continuous supply of oxygen for respiration and to remove the carbon dioxide generated by respiration, we have evolved a specialised exchange surface for gas exchange within the breathing system.