The painting's less common but original title is Celebes, according to inscriptions on the front and back of the canvas. Ernst painted Celebes in Cologne in 1921. The French poet and Surrealist Paul Éluard éluard Visited ernst that year and purchased the painting and took it back To. paris These may be allusions to the mechanical terror of the war experience which led to Ernst writing, On the 1st of August 1914 Max Ernst died. He was resurrected on the 11 November 1918 as a young man who aspired to find the myths of his time.. Celebes, then, seems to represent the myth of destruction.
Celebes suggests ritual and totemic sculpture of African origin, evidenced by the totem-like pole at right and the figure's bull horns. The painting uniquely combines found imagery and non-Western visual elements. Ernst's creature has a frilly metallic cuff or collar, and a horned head and tail. These may be allusions to the mechanical terror of the war experience which led to Ernst writing, On the 1st of August 1914 Max Ernst died. He was resurrected on the 11 November 1918 as a young man who aspired to find the myths of his time.. Celebes, then, seems to represent the myth of destruction.
The elements of juxtaposition and shadows create a three dimensional representation, though some of the shadows defy angle relation to other shadows, such as the elephant’s right leg’s shadow compared to the shadows of hose pipe, vertical line at left and left leg of the elephant. 
Inscribed 'max ernst 1921' b.l., 'Celebes' b.r. and 'No. 1. MAX ERNST | CELEBES' on back of canvas. Oil on canvas, 49 3/8 x 44 (125.5 x 108). Purchased from the Elephant Trust (Grant-in-Aid) 1975. Prov: Paul Eluard, Paris, 1921; Sir Roland Penrose, London, 1938; the Elephant Trust 1975. As was first noted by John Craxton and subsequently confirmed by Ernst himself, the image of the boiler-like form on its pair of 'legs' was originally inspired by an illustration in an English anthropological journal of a huge communal corn-bin peculiar to the Konkombwa tribe of the southern Sudan.
The Elephant Celebes was painted in Cologne in 1921 and was Max Ernst's first large picture. This painting grew directly out of Ernst's use of collage from 1919 onwards to produce bizarre combinations of images, though no preliminary collages or sketches were made for it. The idea of the painting appeared spontaneously on the canvas with few alterations as it progressed.
The Elephant Celebes (or Celebes) is a 1921 painting by the German Dadaist and surrealist Max Ernst. It is among the most famous of Ernst's early surrealist works and undoubtedly the first masterpiece of Surrealist painting in the De Chirico tradition.. It combines the vivid dreamlike atmosphere of Surrealism with the collage aspects of Dada. These may be allusions to the mechanical terror of the war experience which led to Ernst writing, On the 1st of August 1914 Max Ernst died. He was resurrected on the 11 November 1918 as a young man who aspired to find the myths of his time.. Celebes, then, seems to represent the myth of destruction.
Heavily influenced by the likes of Duchamp, Ray, Tanguy and perhaps most of all Max Ernst, her former husband, Tanning created a number of paintings in the 1940s that are now considered seminal to the Surrealist movement, including her dream-like self-portrait Birthday. Jimmy Ernst. Jimmy Ernst, an artist and the son of Surrealist painter Max Ernst, played an active role in the Abstract Expressionist scene in New York, where he served as director of the Art of This Century gallery.
Below the review of The Elephant Celebes –an epitome of Surrealist paintings is given verbatim. It fetched the highest marks in a course on Visual Communication and Judgment of Art. ‘The Elephant Celebes’ – one of the seminal paintings by the avant-garde artist Max Ernst, is considered to pioneer the Surrealist Movement in the visual arena. Painted in 1921 during the First World War, it captures the essence of Surrealist manifesto. The central space is occupied by some geometrical curves; the bust on the right corner brings to relief, naturalistic ones. This dynamism is nonetheless subdued due to a grayish dull and black color. Some bright colors have been used as well to bring dynamism and transform to the abstraction of the painting.
The elements of juxtaposition and shadows create a three dimensional representation, though some of the shadows defy angle relation to other shadows, such as the elephant’s right leg’s shadow compared to the shadows of hose pipe, vertical line at left and left leg of the elephant. The central space is occupied by some geometrical curves; the bust on the right corner brings to relief, naturalistic ones. This dynamism is nonetheless subdued due to a grayish dull and black color. Some bright colors have been used as well to bring dynamism and transform to the abstraction of the painting.