One of the most important protections under HIPAA is that it helps those with preexisting conditions get health coverage. In the past, some employers' group health plans limited, or even denied, coverage if a new employee had such a condition before enrolling in the plan. Under HIPAA, that is not allowed. This employee has 8 months of creditable coverage. His earlier 2 years of health coverage are not creditable because he had a break in coverage that was more than the 63 days allowed under the law. His preexisting condition exclusion will last 4 months after he enrolls in the employer's health plan.
Portability in insurance means the ability to keep important coverage if you move from one employer to another. Portability can be applied to any kind of insurance offered through employment, including disability, life insurance and health insurance. Portable health insurance has been in effect since the passage of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996. Under this law, someone changing employers and applying for coverage under a new group plan cannot be excluded due to preexisting health conditions.
The primary purpose of an Estate Closing Letter is to affirm that the estate tax return is being accepted as filed, and that the estate is not going to be audited by the IRS (and thus it is also known as an “Estate Tax Closing Letter”). An Estate Closing Letter is the formal letter issued by the IRS after a Form 706 Estate Tax Return has been reviewed and accepted by the IRS. (Many states that have a state estate or inheritance tax will have a state-issued estate closing letter as well.).
A portable application (portable app), sometimes also called standalone, is a program designed to run on a compatible computer without being installed in a way that modifies the computer's configuration information. 
In fact, the primary alternatives to receiving an estate closing letter are a notification that the estate is being audited for a potential estate tax assessment, and/or a Statutory Notice of Deficiency (also known as an SND, or a 90-Day Notice) if the IRS has a specific concern about something reported on the Form 706. An Estate Closing Letter is the formal letter issued by the IRS after a Form 706 Estate Tax Return has been reviewed and accepted by the IRS. (Many states that have a state estate or inheritance tax will have a state-issued estate closing letter as well.).
Doing so will delay or cancel this transfer. Telecom LETTER OF AUTHORIZATION LOCAL NUMBER PORTABILITY ALL FIELDS ARE REQUIRED The name (business name, your name, spouse’s name, etc.) entered below MUST appear exactly as is does on your current carriers’ billing statement. By signing below, I also authorize Fast Break Tech Telecom or its designated agent to obtain billing information, customer service records, and other network information required to provide me with FBT Telecom service. I understand that I may consult with FBT Telecom as to whether a fee will apply to the change.
YES NO 8 people found this helpful. “ John Smith decided to invest a large percentage of his income to ABC Company's 401k because the portability of the plan made it easy for him switch it to another plan if he decided to change jobs. ”. URL to this page: http://www.investorwords.com/3739/portability.html. Copyright © 2015 by WebFinance, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Reproduction of all or part of this glossary, in any format, without the written consent of WebFinance, Inc. is prohibited.
Definition of PORTABILITY. 1. : the quality or state of being portable. 2. : the transferability of a worker's benefits from one pension fund to another when the worker changes jobs. 
The code that is written for this software will need to have excellent portability to be compatible with all the current office hardware. 3 people found this helpful. 
Dear Sir or Madam: This letter is written in regards to the I-485 application for adjustment of status filed on my behalf. I obtained my Employment Authorization Document (EAD) on [Date]. I began employment with another company, [XYZ company], as an [job title] on [date], 10 months after I filed for my I-485 application.