Nevis Adventures, a one stop shop to action and adventure on the island of Nevis. Our philosophy is simple, a helping hand approach to take the hassle out of travel arrangements to help you make the most of your time on Nevis. If you are looking for fun, action and adventure in the sun Nevis is the place to be. Nevis Adventures are able to support you in a range of activities our holiday packages include activities, transfers and accomodation!
Newcastle Beach. On the northern side of the island, this beach gets its name from the nearby village of Newcastle. It’s mostly covered with soft, yellow sand and is a nice spot to relax. It’s also a great place to visit on a Saturday and enjoy the atmosphere as the fishermen sell their fresh catches that day. Pinneys Beach. Probably the most famous and most popular beach on Nevis, Pinney’s Beach runs for about three miles and can be found on the outskirts of the capital, Charlestown. Choose to relax on the sand or enjoy a refreshing drink at one of the rustic beach bars or nearby Four Seasons Resort.
Frolic on the golden beaches of Nevis or find tranquillity in the Resort's award-winning spa. Play golf in Nevis while taking in the dramatic Caribbean island views of one of the world's most scenic courses. B ask in the near-perfect weather of this little-known wonder in the Caribbean. 
To the east and northeast are Antigua and Barbuda, and to the southeast is the small uninhabited island of Redonda, and the island of Montserrat, which currently has an active volcano (see Soufriere Soufrière). Hills Saint kitts And nevis were among the first islands in The caribbean to be settled By. europeans The British dependency of Anguilla was historically also a part of this union, which was then known collectively as Saint Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla. To the north-northwest lie the islands of Sint Eustatius, Saba (the Netherlands), Saint Barthelemy, Barthélemy-Saint/Martin Sint maarten And. anguilla
St. Kitts & Nevis Neighborhoods. St. Kitts and Nevis lie on the border between the Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean Sea. Both islands are small: St. Kitts is only about 65 square miles in size, and Nevis, which is located two miles southeast of St. Kitts, is approximately half that size. The best time to visit St. Kitts and Nevis is May and June, when hotels lower their rates to lure in travelers and the winter crowds thin out. But the peak season -- December to April -- does host Carnival, a party that might be worth weaving through the droves of tourists.
Nevis /ˈniːvɪs/ is a small island in the Caribbean Sea that forms part of the inner arc of the Leeward Islands chain of the West Indies. Nevis and the neighbouring island of Saint Kitts constitute one country: the Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis. Nevis is located near the northern end of the Lesser Antilles archipelago, about 350 km east-southeast of Puerto Rico and 80 km west of Antigua. Its area is 93 square kilometres (36 sq mi) and the capital is Charlestown. Saint Kitts and Nevis are separated by a shallow 3-kilometre (2 mi) channel known as The Narrow
Nevis [1] is the smaller of the two islands that make up the small Caribbean island nation of Saint Kitts and Nevis. A former British colony, the islands became independent in 1983. They are separated by a 2-mile (3.22 km) wide channel. The first one brings you to an island that is larger than Nevis, with a much larger airport, like Puerto Rico. At those airports, you get on a smaller plane that holds about twenty people. They fly over to Nevis's tiny airport.
In the early 17th century the first British colonists on the island of St. Kitts called it St. Christopher's island.. The island of Nevis was first colonised in 1628 by British settlers from Saint Kitts. Using St. Kitts as a base of operations, the British and French would later sail through the eastern Caribbean, colonizing a wide assortment of islands. 
Vividly green with blue skies, clean air and long empty beaches, Nevis has a pace of life that encourages you to stop and appreciate all the natural beauty around you. 
Beyond the obvious (our pool) walk down three minutes to Oualie Beach. It is considered the best beach on the island. The sea here is always calm and the beach is safe for children. Nevis Watersports, located here, offers sea kayaking, windsurfing, snorkeling, scuba diving, and deep-sea fishing.