A destination management company (DMC) is a professional services company possessing extensive local knowledge, expertise and resources, specializing in the design and implementation of events, activities, tours, transportation and program logistics. While the term DMC is being widely used to identify a travel trade professional service, the service being offered is essentially the use of those ingredients, services and products already available at a particular destination and to which the user has provided no contribution other than use.
You benefit from the DMC's knowledge of local products, service quality and reliability. A DMC will negotiate on your behalf, always keeping your best interest and budget in mind. A DMC can leverage its relationships and purchasing power to provide the highest quality of service in a cost-effective manner. Here are some of the benefits of working with a DMC: 1  One contact and payment to keep all the details in line and simple for you. 2  Knowledge of the finest local venues, caterers, decor, décor transportation and other event. 3  Services-on going relationships with vendors to obtain the best, quality service and.  negotiations 1 One contact and payment to keep all the details in line and simple for you. 2  Knowledge of the finest local venues, caterers, decor, décor transportation and other event. 3  Services-on going relationships with vendors to obtain the best, quality service and.  negotiations
Report Abuse. I use the whole lineup of Panasonic DMC cameras and my best guess would be Digital Media Camera. But it is definitely just an acronym to describe Panasonic digital cameras from the point/shoots, super zooms all the way up to the DSLRs. The G1 is a DSLR and a very good one at that. It is one of the DSLR's that use the new 4/3rds system lenses. I have no clue what DMC stands for. You may want to call Panasonic and ask them They use a much smaller sensor than the traditional APS-C or full frame digital cameras use, so the magnification factor is 2x, not 1.5x or 1x.
Did you know that Destination Medical Center (DMC) is the largest economic development initiative in Minnesota and one of the largest in the country? DMC is a public-private partnership between the State of Minnesota, the City of Rochester, Olmsted County, and Mayo Clinic. 
I use the whole lineup of Panasonic DMC cameras and my best guess would be Digital Media Camera. But it is definitely just an acronym to describe Panasonic digital cameras from the point/shoots, super zooms all the way up to the DSLRs. It is one of the DSLR's that use the new 4/3rds system lenses. I have no clue what DMC stands for. You may want to call Panasonic and ask them They use a much smaller sensor than the traditional APS-C or full frame digital cameras use, so the magnification factor is 2x, not 1.5x or 1x.
A DMC (Destination Management Company) offer the following logistic services in their destination; Meet and Greet, Transfers / Transportation, Hotel Accommodation, Restaurants, Activities, Excursions, Conference Venues, Themed Events, Gala Dinners and Logistics. A DMC provides local destination knowledge and they act as a extension of your company.
284Z is a yellow gold metallic thread from DMC that comes on a large spool. When many of the older designs were created, this was the most widely available gold metallic thread. Some craft stores, needlework shops, and online shops still carry it. However, we now have many more metallic choices. 
Trivia. DmC Dante's Viewtiful Pose. 1  When Dante performs his Richoshot, his pose closely resembles one that both the classic Dante and Viewtiful Joe use in the Devil May Cry artwork and the Viewtiful Joe series, albeit less exaggerated. 2  In Dante's trailer, there is a Combichrist tour poster. 