Vaughan's first recording session for Mercury was in February of 1954 and she stayed with the label through 1959. After a stint at Roulette Records from 1960 to 1963, Vaughan returned to Mercury for an additional time from 1964 to 1967. Vaughan developed an early love for popular music on records and the radio. In the 1930s, Newark had a very active live music scene and Vaughan frequently saw local and touring bands that played in the city at venues like the Montgomery Street Skating Rink, Adams Theatre and Proctor's Theatre.
Sarah Lois Vaughan (March 27, 1924 – April 3, 1990) was an American jazz singer, described by music critic Scott Yanow as having one of the most wondrous voices of the 20th century.. Nicknamed  Sassy , . The Divine One  and  Sailor  (for her salty speech), Sarah Vaughan was a Grammy Award winner. Jake Vaughan was deeply religious and the family was very active in the New Mount Zion Baptist Church on 186 Thomas Street. Sarah began piano lessons at the age of seven, sang in the church choir and occasionally played piano for rehearsals and services.
1 Originally released in 1959 as the B-side to  Broken Hearted Melody 2  . It was issued via Mercury Records as a 45 RPM single. 3  The song appeared on the 1959 studio album Vaughan and Violins. 
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. The Thrill Is Gone is a song by Ray Henderson and written by Lew Brown It has the distinction of being included on a 1931 landmark recording titled Gems from George White's Scandals. Rudy Vallee and His Connecticut Yankees introduced The Thrill is Gone on the Victor label. 
b. Sarah Lois Vaughan, 27th March 1924, Newark, New Jersey, U.S.A. d. 3rd April 1990, Los Angeles, California, U.S.A. Sarah Vaughan's contribution to the female jazz vocal genre, during the twentieth century, puts her alongside the likes of Dinah Washington, Billie Holliday and Ella Fitzgerald.
Vaughan was frequently accompanied by a friend, Doris Robinson, on her trips into New York City. Sometime in the Fall of 1942 (when Sarah was 18 years old), Vaughan suggested that Robinson enter the Apollo Amateur Night contest. Vaughn played piano accompaniment Robinson, who won second prize. Vaughan developed an early love for popular music on records and the radio. In the 1930s, Newark had a very active live music scene and Vaughan frequently saw local and touring bands that played in the city at venues like the Montgomery Street Skating Rink, Adams Theatre and Proctor's Theatre.
In 1953 Vaughan signed with Mercury Records and embarked on a short but successful pop career. By 1959 she had made the Billboard charts with songs like C'est la Vie, Mr. Wonderful, The Banana Boat Song, Smooth Operator, and the million-selling Broken-Hearted Melody.. An only child, Sarah Lois Vaughan was born in Newark, New Jersey, in 1924. Both of her parents enjoyed making music in their spare time--her carpenter father as a guitarist and piano player, her mother as a singer with the local Baptist church choir.
When Vaughan's contract with Mercury Records ended in late 1959, she immediately signed on with Roulette Records, a small label owned by Morris Levy, one of the backers of New York's Birdland, where she frequently appeared. Jake and Ada Vaughan migrated to Newark from Virginia during the First World War. Sarah was their only natural child, although in the 1960s they adopted Donna, the child of a woman who traveled on the road with Sarah Vaughan.
Vaughan and Atkins moved into a house in Englewood, New Jersey. When Vaughan's contract with Mercury Records ended in late 1959, she immediately signed on with Roulette Records, a small label owned by Morris Levy, who was one of the backers of New York's Birdland, where she frequently appeared. Jake Vaughan was deeply religious and the family was very active in the New Mount Zion Baptist Church on 186 Thomas Street. Sarah began piano lessons at the age of seven, sang in the church choir and occasionally played piano for rehearsals and services.