At The Home Depot you can also find comprehensive surveillance systems that allow you to monitor what goes on in your home and/or office 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. We offer both wired and wireless security cameras for your convenience. Feeling safe and secure in your own home is priceless but you can purchase peace of mind from The Home Depot in the form of our latest home security and alarm systems.
Our prices on CCTV security cameras are among the best you will find anywhere, and we back up that claim with our 115% low price guarantee. If you find a lower price on an identical product, let us know and we will not only match that price, we'll deduct another 15% of the difference from your order! 
Shopping for a home security camera: 1  If you want the deterrence value without the need to actually watch or record anything, realistic-looking fake (dummy) security cameras can cost $15-$50 each. 2  DoItYourself.com lists factors to consider in choosing a wireless home seucirty camera. 1 If you want the deterrence value without the need to actually watch or record anything, realistic-looking fake (dummy) security cameras can cost $15-$50 each.
CCTV Security Pros is also a leader in business and home security camera systems. With our wide selection, you can easily monitor your property when away on business, on a vacation, or from your desk at home or at the workplace. Our CCTV surveillance cameras will give you the security you need around your home or business. CCTV Security Pros carries several different CCTV security cameras tailored to your specific requirements.
Typical costs: 1  A stand-alone Internet security camera that sends images to your web browser starts around $30-$50, but expect to pay $75-$250 for a useable basic camera, and it can be $300-$1,000 and up for a high-resolution, durable-construction model. 1 If you want the deterrence value without the need to actually watch or record anything, realistic-looking fake (dummy) security cameras can cost $15-$50 each. 2  DoItYourself.com lists factors to consider in choosing a wireless home seucirty camera
Look no further. Our prices start at $75 per security camera install. We also include free mobile phone and tablet programming so you can watch your security cameras from anywhere (up to 15 mobile devices). We install 4, 8 and 16 security camera systems for homes, businesses and warehouses. If you need to cover up to 40 feet, make sure you use a higher resolution security camera. I recommend 700 tvl. You will still pick up facial features, tattoos and other small details. A good standard resolution camera can run from $35 to $65 while high resolution models range from $75 to $150.
When connected to a Swann DVR security system all of our cameras can be accessed remotely from your smartphone, tablet or desktop. Allowing you to check in on your home security cameras or monitor staff at work wherever you are. Security cameras are a great way to provide security for your home or workplace. As well as providing you with video footage of any events that may happen, they also act as a visible deterrent to criminals. Swann produces a range of cameras, ensuring there is one suitable for every budget.
You can't put a price tag on the safety and security of your home and family, and yet you need to consider your budget when deciding upon the best security plan for your home. How much your safety and security features will cost, will depend entirely on the complexity and scope of your home's safety plan. 
The downside to IP cameras is the cost per camera and network bottleneck. A good IP camera can range from $150 to $400 while a higher end IP camera can range from $500 to $1,200. IP cameras are also Internet data hogs. If you need to cover up to 40 feet, make sure you use a higher resolution security camera. I recommend 700 tvl. You will still pick up facial features, tattoos and other small details. A good standard resolution camera can run from $35 to $65 while high resolution models range from $75 to $150.