Traders can fund a day trading account which will not be subject to the $25,000 minimum if they open an account with a proprietary trading brokerage. This can usually be done with a minimum investment of $2,500 but it depends on the brokerage and their requirements. From a mathematical standpoint, it is not common for a traditional equities trader to have a return of more than 20% annually, though some strategies can have higher returns and some can have lower returns. If a trader has a buying power of $50,000 and returns 20%, they will profit $10,000 for the year.
The step toward becoming an active trader is a big one, because the world of active trading is quite different from that of casual investing. It is important to understand the implications of making the switch, including increased commissions, which could be wipe out your gains before you really begin. Things to Look For Although there is no hard and fast rule for how much you should have in your account to start trading, many brokerages will set this amount for you.
To trade an account marked as a pattern day trading account, a trader needs a minimum equity balance of $25,000. This can be a significant encumbrance and many traders do not have the starting capital required by law to maintain a pattern day trading account. From a mathematical standpoint, it is not common for a traditional equities trader to have a return of more than 20% annually, though some strategies can have higher returns and some can have lower returns. If a trader has a buying power of $50,000 and returns 20%, they will profit $10,000 for the year.
Minimum Equity. Day trading can be initiated only from a margin account. While minimum equity requirements for a margin account not coded as a day-trading account is $2,000, a customer needs $25,000 in order to start day trading, according to federal regulation. Furthermore, a day trader must maintain the minimum equity level prior to any day-trading activities. If the amount of equity in the account falls below the $25,000 level due to price declines, no day trades are permitted until additional funds are deposited to bring back the equity level to the minimum requirement.
For example, a brokerage may say that you need a minimum of $3,000 to open a margin account, the type of account you would need to make short sale trades or to purchase or sell options. Things to Look For Although there is no hard and fast rule for how much you should have in your account to start trading, many brokerages will set this amount for you.
The amount you need to start out depends first on the broker you use. Some brokers require you to put $5,000, $10,000 or more into an account to start. Full-service brokers typically require a larger initial account, but there are some online brokers that will let you start an account with as little as $500. When calculating the amount you want to start with, take into consideration how much your transaction fees will be. If you are only buying stock once or twice a year, it doesn’t make much difference, but if you are trading on a regular basis, those fees can easily total thousands of dollars very quickly.
Some people, however, do not have or do not want to start with a trading capital of $2,000. Brokers have therefore introduced the micro lot that divides the mini lots further by ten. A micro lot equates to 1,000 units of the base currency. This means that a micro lot has a value of roughly $0.10 per pip. 
Please try again later. Learn how much money you need to start day trading, swing trading, and create a living. First you need to know what type of lifestyle you need or want and then how much money you need to sustain that lifestyle. 
With futures trading, just a few ticks can mean several hundred dollars (profit or loss) for most contracts traded. If you are just starting out and your account balance is only $3,000 to $5,000 (or even $10,000, which is not that much in futures), you could be seeing moves of 10% of your account within minutes! Recent regulations require that you deposit at least $25,000 in cash or securities with your brokerage before you can day trade securities. The Futures and Commodity markets offer Day Traders better access to day trade for a much smaller deposit. Depending on the brokerage, you can open a futures account for as little as $2,500, although many require at least $5,000 to $10,000. This is not the same as margin, which is the minimum amount of capital you must have in your account in order to trade a particular a futures contract.