If you want to get even fitter, it takes another three weeks for your body to get used to the new demands. If you get yourself to the point where you can run an even pace for 20 minutes straight without pain or fatigue, that should be fit enough for playing basketball. Source(s): n0witrytobeamused · 8 years ago. Report Abuse. It completely depends on the person. Some people are continually fit, while others take a couple months to get into their 'ideal' fitness, and many in between. Try just running a couple slow miles 5-6 days a week and see how it all goes.
For both resistance and cardiovascular training, then, it takes about six weeks to see tangible changes under optimal conditions. Realistically, the vast majority of recreational exercisers will need longer than six weeks to pump up-how much longer depends on how hard the program is. 
Within a few weeks, you will notice changes in all of the above elements of fitness. Within about six weeks, you will be ready to take your workout routine to the next level. The answer, then, is that getting in shape isn't a destination, but rather it is an ongoing process. Your body will immediately begin to show the benefits of exercise. Within one to two weeks, you will start to notice changes in all of the five components of physical fitness. As you can see, there is no pat answer to the question of how long it takes to get into shape. Fitness is a process, and not a destination. By eating well and moving your body, you can begin to reap the benefits of better health through fitness right away.
The amount of time it takes to get in shape for a marathon differs depending on how fit you are currently. You should be able to run at least 15 to 25 miles per week and have participated in one or more shorter races in the past. If you have been running long distance regularly, this time period provides you with a cushion to increase your pace and strength before the big event. Start out running anywhere between 15 and 25 miles per week, depending on your workout history, and gradually increase to 30 miles per week if you can handle it.
If you're spending a lot of time thinking about how long it's going to take to get fit or reach a specific fitness goal, you're using up energy that you could be using to get started. Being fit means different things for different people, depending on their current level of activity. The general exercise guidelines for all adults, as recommended by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, are to get at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity cardiovascular exercise each week, as well as doing strength training exercises that work all major muscle groups two days a week.
Best Answer: It takes your body about three weeks or running to get used to it. That gets your heart, lungs, and major running muscles to the point where you can run without much fatigue or pain. Report Abuse. It completely depends on the person. Some people are continually fit, while others take a couple months to get into their 'ideal' fitness, and many in between. Try just running a couple slow miles 5-6 days a week and see how it all goes.
How long does it take to get fit? When you start exercising for the first time, you can expect large initial gains in fitness, followed by smaller gains as you continue. The researchers monitored fitness by measuring maximum oxygen uptake, running speed, and heart rate during exercise and at rest. The largest gains were seen in the first three months; by six months, most of the markers had begun to plateau.
If you are already in reasonably good shape (and it sounds like you are), you could probably get into marathon shape (ie, develop enough endurance to finish) in 4-6 months. That's about how long most people allow to train for their first marathon. How long does it take to get really, really fit (like marathon runners)? Hi, I play football/soccer, i am fit enough to last 80 minutes (thats the time we play at my age), but how can you get really, really fit like marathon runners.