Message from the ACEN Chief Executive Officer Dr. Sharon J. Tanner On behalf of the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) Board of Commissioners and staff, I am pleased to present the 2013 Report to Constituents for your review. Based on the review of the data as reported from more than 1,200 nursing programs of all types, the ACEN Accreditation Standards and Criteria have clearly demonstrated their effectiveness in providing a framework and context for establishing and maintaining excellence in nursing education programs.
PURPOSE The purpose of the ACEN is to provide specialized accreditation for programs of nursing education, both postsecondary and higher degree, which offer either a certificate, a diploma, or a recognized professional degree (clinical doctorate, master’s, baccalaureate, associate, diploma, and practical). The staff then works with the nursing education unit to achieve their goal. Collaborative Visit The Collaborative Site Visit involves the establishment of one (1) site visit team that incorporates representatives from the ACEN and the other accreditation or approval agency.
CCNE Accreditation. Share |. Officially recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a national accreditation agency, the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) is an autonomous accrediting agency, contributing to the improvement of the public's health. Supplemental Resource for the Standards for Accreditation of Baccalaureate and Graduate Nursing Programs-New! The Supplemental Resource is intended to provide guidance to CCNE evaluators and decision makers and program representatives engaged in the CCNE accreditation process.
The Accreditation Commission For Education in Nursing (ACEN) accredits all types of nursing education programs including master's, baccalaureate, associate's and diploma. 1  The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) accredits programs that offer only master's and baccalaureate level nursing degrees. Most nursing school accreditation organizations use the same standards and criteria to accredit each nursing program type. However, nursing school accreditation is granted for specific periods of time that differ between individual schools and programs.
Please join us in welcoming four newly elected Members to the ACEN Board of Commissioners. The new Members include three educators and one public member. Pictured left to right are: Dr. Jo Ann Baker; Dr. Hollie Caldwell; Dr. Amy Hall; and Dr. John Russell. 
The NLN-AC s purpose is to provide specialized accreditation for programs of nursing education (http://www.nlnac.org/manuals/NLNACManual2008.pdf).The CCNE is the accrediting body for BSN and graduate nursing programs. Entry level nursing programs are accredited by either the NLN-AC or the CCNE. Accreditation by one of these bodies indicates the programs have exceeded the state requirements for a nursing program. The NLN-AC is the primary accrediting body for Associate Degree Nursing (ADN), practical nursing and diploma programs.
Goals. 1  Promulgate a common core of standards and criteria for the accreditation of nursing programs found to meet those standards and criteria. 2  Strengthen educational quality through assistance to associated programs and schools, and evaluation processes, functions, publications, and research. 
This webinar will refer to the accreditation standards of the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) as a framework for program assessment, evaluation and improvement. 1 Describe how the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) accreditation standards are used for program assessment, evaluation and improvement. 2  List examples of processes and evidence to support accreditation standards during the accreditation process
Follow-Up report and determines whether the program is in compliance with the Standard(s) and afﬁ rms or denies continuing accreditation for the program. A decision to deny continuing accreditation results in removal of the program from the listing of ACEN-accredited nursing programs. Based on the review of the data as reported from more than 1,200 nursing programs of all types, the ACEN Accreditation Standards and Criteria have clearly demonstrated their effectiveness in providing a framework and context for establishing and maintaining excellence in nursing education programs.