Domestic airports near Live Oak Island, FL. 30 miles: Tallahassee, FL (TLH / KTLH) Tallahassee Regional Airport. 106 miles: Valdosta, GA (VLD / KVLD) Valdosta Regional Airport. 116 miles: Panama City, FL (ECP / KECP) Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Live Oak Island, FL, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports. You can also browse local airports if you're a pilot. NOTE: Live Oak Island may be a smaller town so be sure to check all locations and airports.
Nearest major airport to Live Oak Island, Florida: The closest major airport to Live Oak Island, Florida is Tallahassee Regional Airport (TLH / KTLH). Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Live Oak Island, FL, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports. You can also browse local airports if you're a pilot. NOTE: Live Oak Island may be a smaller town so be sure to check all locations and airports.
4.7%. 4.3%. There are a total of n/a airports within 30 miles of Live Oak and a total of 2 Amtrak train stations within 30 miles of the city center. The average travel time to work in Live Oak is 20.6% less than the Florida average and 19.5% less than the National average. The number of people who take public transportation in Live Oak is 74.5% less than the Florida average and 89.6% less than the National average. The number of people who carpool to work in Live Oak is 175.6% greater than the Florida average and 175.2% greater than the National average.
3880 Northeast Thirty-Ninth Avenue, Suite A Live Oak, FL 32609 352-373-0249 website. Served by US Airways Express and Delta Connection airlines, this regional airport offers a wide variety of services to meet all of your travel needs and is the closest airport to Live Oak. What our users are saying about Gainesville Regional Airport | Rate Gainesville Regional Airport. American Airlines now serves GNV with two flights daily to Miami International Airport with connections to 250 worldwide destinations.
This airport is in Tallahassee, Florida and is 30 miles from the center of Live Oak Island, FL. If you're looking for domestic flights to TLH, check the airlines that fly to TLH. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Live Oak Island, FL, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports. You can also browse local airports if you're a pilot. NOTE: Live Oak Island may be a smaller town so be sure to check all locations and airports.
Valdosta Regional Airport is the nearest major airport. Live Oak Higher Education. Santa Fe Community College, Valdosta State University, and University of Florida are some of the colleges close to Live Oak. Live Oak, Florida, in Suwannee county, is 59 miles NW of Gainesville, Florida (center to center) and 79 miles W of Jacksonville, Florida. The city has a population of 6,480. Live Oak History.
Nearest major airport to Live Oak, Florida: The closest major airport to Live Oak, Florida is Valdosta Regional Airport (VLD / KVLD). This airport is in Valdosta, Georgia and is 44 miles from the center of Live Oak, FL. If you're looking for domestic flights to VLD, check the airlines that fly to VLD. 