Consider asking a trusted friend or family member whether your breath smells bad. You can try to smell your own breath, but you can only ever approximate what someone else smells. The best way to know for sure is to swallow your pride and ask, Be honest.
There is a simple way to experience the smell of your own breath. Wash your hands and then lick the back of one hand with your tongue. Wait about 10 or 15 seconds so your saliva can dry. Then smell the area of the hand that you licked.
Ways to test for bad breath (halitosis). - Having bad breath is bad enough but not knowing that you do is even worse. This page describes methods you can use to smell your own breath and judge its level of offensiveness, and also some of the tests dentists and dental researchers use to quantify levels of halitosis. Odors from your mouth escape to your nose.
Surprisingly, perhaps, it’s almost impossible to smell your own bad breath. You’ve probably tried cupping your hand in front of your face, exhaling through your mouth and then sniffing for the odor that others find so offensive.
Why is it hard, Why do it, and how to do it. At one time or another a person may want to be able to smell their own breath and check to see if it is fresh or not. You may find that it is difficult to detect your own breath. In this article we will cover why you cannot smell your own breath very well, why you might want to check you breath, and methods on how to be able to smell it. 1  Why you can't smell your own breath. It is very difficult for people to smell their own breath because a person becomes acclimated to their own breath, or in other words they get used to it so they don't notice it anymore.
The obvious reason you would want to check your breath at a certain time is to find out if at that moment your breath is fresh or not. You may want to do this before a meeting, social gathering, or date. Another reason you may want to smell your own breath is to determine the effectiveness of various oral care products. There are various types of mints, gums, mouthwashes, and toothpastes on the market now that promise fresh breath and it is apparent that some work better than others.