Synopsis. Amitabh Bachchan was born on October 11, 1942 in Allahabad, India. In 1969, he debuted in Saat Hindustani. His role in 1972's Zanjeer made him an action movie star. In the 1980s, Bachchan held a seat in the Indian Parliament. In the '90s, he started his own production company. Early Life. Amitabh Harivansh Bachchan, best known as Amitabh Bachchan, was born in Allahabad, India on October 11, 1942. India was still a British colony at the time, and would not achieve independence until five years later. Bachchan's father was renowned Hindi poet Dr. Harivansh Rai
Born on: 11th Oct 42 Born in: India Marital status: Married Occupation: TV/Film Industry. Amitabh Bachchan net worth is estimated at $400 million. Amitabh Bachchan net worth came through his roles in the 70s by means of the Hindi cinema. It was also in this same movie that Bachchan made his first film debut, the beginning of Amitabh Bachchan net worth. His first role being an actor was in Saat Hindustani. This film was directed by Khwaja Ahmad Abbas and his character was one of the seven protagonists.
Amitabh Bachchan was born on October 11, 1942 in Allahabad. He is the son of late poet Harivansh Rai Bachchan and Teji Bachchan. Amitabh Bachchan did his schooling from Sherwood College, Nainital and later on pursued a degree in science from the Delhi University. His first job was in Shaw Wallace and later worked as a freight broker for a shipping firm called Bird and Co.
Bachchan (right) with his father Amitabh Bachchan and mother Jaya Bachchan in February 2014. Abhishek Bachchan was born on 5 February 1976 to veteran actor of Hindi cinema, Amitabh Bachchan and Jaya Bhaduri Bachchan, yesteryears leading actress. He is married to Aishwarya Rai, a former Miss World and leading Bollywood actress. He is the son of veteran actors Amitabh Bachchan and Jaya Bachchan. He made his film debut in the war drama Refugee (2000), which did not do very well at the box office, but earned him appreciation from critics.
Please try again later. Amitabh Harivansh Bachchan born on 11 October 1942, gained popularity in the early 1970s as the angry young man of Hindi cinema, and has since become one of the most prominent figures in the history of Indian cinema. 
Amitabh Harivansh Bachchan (. [əmɪˈtaːbʱ ˈbəttʃən] ; born 11 October 1942) is an Indian film actor. He first gained popularity in the early 1970s for movies like Deewar and Zanjeer, and was dubbed India's first angry young man for his on-screen roles in Bollywood. His father Harivansh Rai Bachchan was a Hindi poet and his mother Teji Bachchan was a Punjabi Sikh from Lyallpur (now Faisalabad), Punjab. Bachchan was initially named Inquilaab, inspired by the phrase Inquilab Zindabad popularly used during the Indian independence struggle.
Bachchan was born in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, in north central India. His father Harivansh Rai Bachchan was a Hindi poet and his mother Teji Bachchan was a Punjabi Sikh from Lyallpur (now Faisalabad), Punjab. Bachchan was initially named Inquilaab, inspired by the phrase Inquilab Zindabad popularly used during the Indian independence struggle.
Abhishek Bachchan (born 5 February 1976) is an Indian film actor, producer and playback singer best known for his work in Hindi films. He is the son of veteran actors Amitabh Bachchan and Jaya Bachchan. He made his film debut in the war drama Refugee (2000), which did not do very well at the box office, but earned him appreciation from critics.
- IMDb Mini Biography By: rAjOo. The trademark deep baritone voice, the tall, brooding persona, and intense eyes, made Amitabh Bachchan the ideal Angry Young Man in the 1975-84. The son of the late poet Harivansh Rai Bachchan and Teji Bachchan, he was born in Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh. He is the son of late poet Harivansh Rai Bachchan and Teji Bachchan. Amitabh Bachchan did his schooling from Sherwood College, Nainital and later on pursued a degree in science from the Delhi University. His first job was in Shaw Wallace and later worked as a freight broker for a shipping firm called Bird and Co.