In this model of a very short section of DNA you can see how the A-T and C-G base pairs make up the rungs of the ladder and the sugars and phosphates make up the two long strands. These two models shows how all the atoms of the sugars, phosphates and nitrogenous bases fit together to make the spiral staircase or twisted ladder shape first suggested by the x-ray diffraction pictures of DNA taken by Rosalind Franklin and Maurice Wilkins.
The sugar is called deoxyribose. The rungs of the ladder are made of a pair of molecules called bases. There are four bases in DNA: adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine. Because of the chemical structures of the bases, adenine only pairs with thymine and cytosine only pairs with guanine to form a rung. Procedure: 1.
The DNA is made up of base pairs Adenine Thymine Cytosine and Guanine, which form the rungs of the double-helix ladder, and the double-helix ribbons (the backbones of th … e dna) are formed from sugar (deoxyribose)-phosphate groups. Adenine always pairs with Thymine and Cytosine always pairs with Guanine. ---   The pairs are guanine and cytosine (G-C), or adenin … e and thymine  (A-T). The rungs of the dna ladder are made of alternating sugars and  phoso
The 'steps' on the 'DNA Ladder' are made up of the four nitrogenous bases, Cytosine, Guanine, Thymine, and Adenine, while the pairing bases (Adenine & Thymine, Cytosine & Guan … ine) are bonded together with a hydrogen bond. ---   The pairs are guanine and cytosine (G-C), or adenin … e and thymine  (A-T). The rungs of the dna ladder are made of alternating sugars and  phosophate groups.
The rungs of the ladder are pairs of 4 types of nitrogen bases  (thymines, adenines, guanines, cytosines).   ---   The pairs are guanine and cytosine (G-C), or adenin … e and thymine  (A-T). The rungs of the dna ladder are made of alternating sugars and  phosophate groups. + 107 others found this useful.
Each strand is made up of a chain of nucleotides.The two strands are held together by hydrogen bonds between adenine and thymine and between guanine and cytosine. The hydroge … n bonds of DNA are analogous to the rungs of a twisted ladder. The part of the twisted ladder or double helix of DNA is made for the nucleotide bases are adenine always pairs up with thymine on the other side, guanine always pairs up with … cytosine. 2 people found this useful.
The Bases of DNA. The four nitrogen bases found in DNA are adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine. Each of these bases are often abbreviated a single letter: A (adenine), C (cytosine), G (guanine), T (thymine). The bases come in two categories: thymine and cytosine are pyrimidines, while adenine and guanine are purines (). The pyrimidine structure is produced by a six-membered, two-nitrogen molecule; purine refers to a nine-membered, four-nitrogen molecule. Base Pairing in DNA. The nitrogen bases form the double-strand of DNA through weak hydrogen bonds. The nitrogen bases, however, have specific shapes and hydrogen bond properties so that guanine and cytosine only bond with each other, while adenine and thymine also bond exclusively.
Concept 19 The DNA molecule is shaped like a twisted ladder. Earlier work had shown that DNA is composed of building blocks called nucleotides consisting of a deoxyribose sugar, a phosphate group, and one of four nitrogen bases — adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G), and cytosine (C). Phosphates and sugars of adjacent nucleotides link to form a long polymer. Other key experiments showed that the ratios of A-to-T and G-to-C are constant in all living things. X-ray crystallography provided the final clue that the DNA molecule is a double helix, shaped like a twisted ladder. In 1953, the race to determine how these pieces fit together in a three-dimensional structure was won by James Watson and Francis Crick at the Cavendish Laboratory in Cambridge, England. They showed that alternating deoxyribose and phosphate molecules form the twisted uprights of the DNA ladder.
The sides of the DNA ladder are long chains of sugars and phosphates (fahs-fates). The rungs of the ladder are four chemical bases: adenine (add-n-een), guanine (gwa-neen), cytosine (sigh-tuh-seen) and thymine (thigh-meen). Adenine (A) always pairs with thymine (T) and guanine (G) always pairs with cytosine (C). 
Yes, you are correct. DNA is made up of a base (adenine, thymine, cytosine and guanine), a phosphate and a deoxyribose Sugar. The phosphate and the sugar form the backbone whi … le the bases form the links in between. 1 person found this useful. The part of the twisted ladder or double helix of DNA is made for the nucleotide bases are adenine always pairs up with thymine on the other side, guanine always pairs up with … cytosine. 2 people