The goals of the schlieffen plan was to surround Paris and force France into a quick surrender. The schlieffen plan was to move quickly through Belgium, which failed, as Germa … n troops were held in Belgium for 6 weeks. No. The Schlieffen Plan was to knock France out of the war before Russia could mobilize and then take out Russia. However, France put up more of a fight than they thought and … Russia moved more quickly and Germany ended up fighting a two front war.
This is arguably one of the key factors that encouraged the failure of the schlieffen plan. B) The stalemate developed on the western front for numerous reasons. Firstly the Schlieffen plan failed because of the type of warfare used on the western front. The warfare used in the great world war was trench warfare. I will now go on to explain in great detail how the Schlieffen Plan changed in contrast to how it was supposed to work. Germany expected that after Belgium had been invaded, they could go on through northern France.
Why did a stalemate occur on the Western Front? It was the failure of the Schlieffen Plan in 1914 that led to the creation of stalemate on the Western Front (Webb). The German offensive; Schlieffen plan failed due to differences in the way the plan was performed compared to the way the plan was actually planned. Problems led to battles, which lead to defeats for the Germans and eventually the forced abandonment (due to failure) of the Schlieffen Plan. As the Germans were defeated they secured some land, 'dug in', the trench system was established. The Schlieffen plan and the 'war of movement' was over. Stalemate was established and would not be broken until 1918. The consolidated trench system secured and gave confidence to both armies defensively. Both had strong backing and resting places (esp.
The Schlieffen Plan, aimed at dealing with war on two fronts, failed to achieve the quick and decisive victory over France that Germany had hoped for. Their initial advance was met with strong resistance from Belgium giving Russia and Britain time to mobilise their troops. 
The goals of the schlieffen plan was to surround Paris and force France into a quick surrender. The schlieffen plan was to move quickly through Belgium, which failed, as Germa … n troops were held in Belgium for 6 weeks. The quick surrender of France would have allowed Gremany to turn its attention to Tsarist Russia. No. The Schlieffen Plan was to knock France out of the war before Russia could mobilize and then take out Russia. However, France put up more of a fight than they thought and … Russia moved more quickly and Germany ended up fighting a two front war.
The Schlieffen plan was the German plan of attack designed to defeat France quickly and then turn on Russia. It was intended to avoid a war on two fronts. However, the plan wa … s based on a number of assumptions, and these turned out to be flawed. No. The Schlieffen Plan was to knock France out of the war before Russia could mobilize and then take out Russia. However, France put up more of a fight than they thought and … Russia moved more quickly and Germany ended up fighting a two front war.
Due to the failure of the schlieffen plan, Germany was forced to fight World War One on two fronts and Germany's attempt to swiftly move through Belgium also forced Britain to join the war effort against Germany. 12 people found this useful. No. The Schlieffen Plan was to knock France out of the war before Russia could mobilize and then take out Russia. However, France put up more of a fight than they thought and … Russia moved more quickly and Germany ended up fighting a two front war.
This resulted in stalemate. After the failure of the Schlieffen Plan the German High Command did not continue the war with an attitude of hopeful optimism. They found a man called Alexander Helphand who knew a Russian nihilist whose aim was the destruction of Russia. No. The Schlieffen Plan was to knock France out of the war before Russia could mobilize and then take out Russia. However, France put up more of a fight than they thought and … Russia moved more quickly and Germany ended up fighting a two front war.
Alfred Von Schlieffen planned to invade France through Belgium, and then the proposed defeat of France was estimated 6 weeks. The amount of soldiers to attack the French from the north, and in the south through Alsace Loraine was originally a ratio of 10:1. I will now go on to explain in great detail how the Schlieffen Plan changed in contrast to how it was supposed to work. Germany expected that after Belgium had been invaded, they could go on through northern France.