The trabeculae carneae (columnae carneae, or meaty ridges), are rounded or irregular muscular columns which project from the inner surface of the right and left ventricles of the heart. These are different from the pectinate muscles, which are present in the right atrium and the atrial appendages of the heart. 
Credit: SUSUMU NISHINAGA/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY. Caption: Trabeculae carneae in the left ventricle of the heart, coloured scanning electron micrograph (SEM). The trabeculae carneae are muscular, columnar protrusions found on the internal surface of the ventricles, the main pumping chambers of the heart. It is thought that they help prevent suction that would occur with a smooth surface. Some trabeculae carneae also act as a type of connective tissue, to help bind the heart's muscle tissue together. Release details: Model release not required. Property release not required. 
Trabeculae carneae. Definition. noun. Muscular ridges that crisscross and project from the inner walls of the heart ventricles. Supplement. Their structure is important to their role. Had the inner surface of heart ventricles been flat, suction could occur and this would impair the heart's ability to pump efficiently. Word origin: Latin trabeculae (beam) + carneae (flesh)
Other types include trabeculae carneae — or columnae carneae, septomarginal trabecula, and trabeculae of spleen, with the first two found in the heart. Trabeculae is the plural form of trabecula, which means small beam or small wood plank in Latin to describe a certain tissue structure. The term is meant to be the smaller form of the Latin word trabes, thus denoting its most common function — support.
Best Answer: The papillary muscles are attached to the chordae tendineae (which attach to the tricuspid or mitral valve, preventing back flow during ventricular contraction) unlike the trabeculae carneae. Trabeculae carneae are attached at either end (forming a bridge) or along their whole length. Papillary muscles and only attached to the ventricular wall at one end, the other is connected to the chordae tendineae. 
Overview. The trabeculae carneae (columnae carneae or fleshy beams) are rounded or irregular muscular columns which project from the whole of the inner surface of the ventricle, with the exception of the conus arteriosus. 
This type of porous bone is known as cancellous bone, and it's found at the ends of long bones like the femur, and also in the pelvic bones, ribs, skull, and the vertebrae in the spinal column. Cancellous bone also contains a lot of red bone marrow that fills up the spaces between trabeculae. Bone tissue is formed by cells called osteoblasts and is secreted in rings called lamellae that expand outward as the trabeculae get larger. As new tissue grows around the osteoblast, a hard ceramic material called calcium phosphate begins to surround the cell.
According to Gray's anatomy online I quote The trabeculae trabeculæ (carneae? carneæ?) column carne are rounded or irregular muscular columns which project from the whole of the inner surface of, the ventricle with the exception of the. conus arteriosus 
trabeculae carneae of (right and left) ventricles. Definitions: 1. muscular bundles on the lining walls of the ventricles of the heart. Synonyms: trabeculae carneae ventriculorum (dextri et sinistri) , columnae carneae, Rathke bundles. The definition information for trabeculae carneae of (right and left) ventricles is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students. 
A trabecula (plural trabeculae. From Latin for small beam.) is a small, often microscopic, tissue element in the form of a small beam, strut or rod, generally having a mechanical function, and usually but not necessarily composed of dense collagenous tissue. trabeculae is the basic unite structure of a spongy bone, in bones. when it looks like beams structure insides bones. They are found in all bones with some exceptions.