Each hour of approved credit will take approximately one hour of computer time to complete. For example, a 6-hour continuing education course will take approximately 6 hours to complete; a 75-hour prelicense course will take approximately 75 hours to complete.
To be eligible to take the California Real Estate License Exam to become a California Salesperson, you must enroll in 135 hours of California B.R.E. approved courses and present proof of completion certificates for California Real Estate Principles, California Real Estate Practice, and an elective course. In California, it is a state requirement that you wait a minimum of 18 days before having access to your first exam and 18 days before each subsequent exam. Our course exams are online, open-book exams.
Learn how to get a real estate license and start a career in real estate. OnlineEd provides the real estate pre-license education needed to get a real estate license in Oregon. Work at your own pace using our mastery-based system without time-monitoring. Work with a personal instructor throughout the course. 
This online course meets all the education requirements of the Florida Real Estate Commission for your Florida real estate sales associate license. Our school license number is ZH45653. Our FREC approval number for this course is #0008257. It will take about 63 hours to complete the course, which will include reading the material online and taking a wide assortment of interactive exercises and exams. You have one year from the time of enrollment to complete our course.
Many courses offered at Champions School of Real Estate include an online textbook in pdf format. If a class is in a section marked as Shipping/Pickup Required, the textbook must be shipped or picked up from a campus for use with an online course. In other words, there is no online version of the textbook available. If you do not recieve a passing grade for the course the first time you take the exam, you can re-enroll in the course and try again free of charge. To re-enroll, contact a career counselor at any one of our campus locations.
1 Real Estate Express is now offering online Texas Appraisal License courses. 2  Take your 30 hour Appraisal Principles course, your 30 hour Appraisal Procedures course, or bundle the Appraisal Principles, Appraisal Procedures, and 2011 USPAP courses for the complete 75 hour Appraisal Trainee Package. Real Estate Express takes pride in its online courses and it shows, our Real Estate License Education courses have received over 6,437 reviews for a rating of 4.26 out of 5.
After the online course, you are required to take a live proctor exam. Within five days of successfully completing your proctored final examination, we will email your certificate of completion to you and post a copy to your My McKissock account. 
You will use your email and password to access our free online real estate license test center. In California, it is a state requirement that you wait a minimum of 18 days before having access to your first exam and 18 days before each subsequent exam. Our course exams are online, open-book exams.
How long do I have to finish the California Real Estate Prelicense courses? You can complete a California Real Estate Prelicense course in as little as 54 days (3 courses at 18 days each) if you wish, however, California License gives you up to six months from the date of enrollment to complete the course. In California, it is a state requirement that you wait a minimum of 18 days before having access to your first exam and 18 days before each subsequent exam. Our course exams are online, open-book exams.
The California Department of Real Estate mandates that no statutory course may be completed in less than 18 days. If you are taking three courses, the minimum time to complete would be 54 days. It is fine to work at a slower pace if that better fits your schedule. Besides taking a course in Real Estate Principles and passing the State Exam, the general requirements are that license applicants must be at least 18 years old and provide proof of legal presence in the United States. For a complete list of requirements, click here. to the DRE website.