Mamma Mia Skopelos. MAMMA MIA Skopelos Island Kalokairi island of MAMMA MIA movie is Skopelos. MAMMA MIA Skopelos. The very successful movie of Hollywood and Universal Studios with the wonderful songs of ABBA and amazing actors, Mamma Mia was filmed in Greece in Skopelos, Skiathos and Damouhari Pelion. Many visitors to our island, request information about the locations where the movie MAMMA MIA was filmed. MAMMA MIA Skopelos Island Kalokairi island of MAMMA MIA movie is Skopelos.
Filming on the Greek Islands. Mamma Mia is filmed in three locations in Greece. Most of the scenes take place on the island of Skopelos, a relatively undeveloped island that is popular with those looking to taste a little of the ‘real’ Greece.
See below for more on the absence of Corfu in the film. Mamma Mia Movie Locations Pictures-See the stars on location in Greece. Yiannis Chatzitrakosas at Skopelos Web has provided me with some more details on Mamma Mia film locations: Kalokairi is Skopelos! The opening Mailbox Scene in Mamma Mia is a composite shot. It's shot at the entrance of Skiathos village
The film Mamma Mia was filmed in Skiathos and also Skopelos islands in 2007. It is the movie adaptation of the hit West End musical stage show of the same name which has been running house full in London and Broadway. Skiathos Mamma Mia Movie. The film making of Mamma Mia in Skiathos Greece, Sporades: The beautiful island of Skiathos Greece with its pine forests and blue flag beaches is a very popular destination for a picture perfect vacation.
1 Top Tours of the Mamma Mia Greek Island Skopelos is the beautiful location known as Kalokairi in the movie musical sensation Mamma Mia.. 2  This scenic island off the coast of Greece in the Aegean Sea is a favorite a…. 3  Top Tours of the Setting for Mamma Mia. 
ATHENS, Greece – Authorities in Greece have declared a state of emergency following torrential rain on the island of Skopelos, where the 2008 movie “Mamma Mia!” was filmed. The emergency rating issued Thursday came after hours of rain caused power outages, extensive road damage and swept cars away in floods.uthorities in Greece on Thursday, Sept. 24, 2015 have declared a state of emergency following torrential rain on the island of Skopelos, where the 2008 movie Mamma Mia! was filmed. (Athina Pouliou/InTime News via AP) GREECE OUT.
Most of the filming was done on the Greek islands of Skopelos and Skiathos and the seaside hamlet of Damouchari in the Pelion area of Greece, while parts of the film were produced on the 007 stage at Pinewood Studios, where lighting and temperature could be controlled. · just now. Report Abuse. It was a few islands/locations Greek Islands: Skopelos Skiathos Other Locations: Albert R. Broccoli 007 Stage, Pinewood Studios, Iver Heath, Buckinghamshire, England, UK Damouchari, Pelion, Greece London, England, UK Pinewood Studios, Iver Heath, Buckinghamshire, England, UK.
Scene from Mamma Mia the Movie shot on the Greek island of Skopelos aka Kalokairi. Copyright Universal Pictures, used by permission. Kalokairi, the island in the Mamma Mia!. movie starring Meryl Streep and Amanda Seyfried, is actually Skopelos. Skopelos/Kalokairi is in the Aegean Sea off the coast of mainland Greece.n Greek, Kalokairi means Summer - so just about any Greek island could be called a Summer island. For more information on the Mamma Mia! movie locations, including where some of the stars lived and dined on Skopelos, go to Mamma Mia Movie Locations. Skopelos is part of the Sporades island group of Greece.