Daily disposable contact lenses are designed to be worn for a single day, and then thrown-away. As such, these lenses represent the ultimate in convenience for the contact lens wearer. No need for extensive cleaning procedures-you don't even need a contact lens case unless you want to take the lenses out for a while. Moreover, daily-disposable contacts are generally considered the safest and healthiest type of contact lenses because the use of a fresh pair of lenses every day minimizes the chance for build-up of harmful pathogens on the lens surface. Each of the major US contact lens manufacturers offers a daily disposable contact.
Awesome contacts from lens.com. I love these lenses! I have been wearing contacts for the last ten years, and for a daily lens these are a great price and very comfortable! I tried a couple of other brands, but the 1-Day Acuvue Moist lenses by far are the best lenses that I have tried. Awesome product and quick and hassle free delivery and customer service.
In Europe and Asia, Daily Disposables are one of, if not the leading modality for contact lens wear, but in the US, daily disposables have captured only about 5% of the contact lens market. The primary reason is cost-to wear daily-disposable contact lenses full-time, you need about 360 pairs a year. Moreover, daily-disposable contacts are generally considered the safest and healthiest type of contact lenses because the use of a fresh pair of lenses every day minimizes the chance for build-up of harmful pathogens on the lens surface. Each of the major US contact lens manufacturers offers a daily disposable contact.
Welcome! If you wear daily disposable contact lenses, this is the place for you. Browse our selection from brands like Acuvue, DAILIES, FreshLook, SofLens, and more. Look below to find your lenses. 
If your eye doctor recommends and prescribes disposable bifocal contact lenses, an estimated per-box cost for these lenses is $50 to $70 (similar to the cost of disposable toric contacts). So again, an annual lens cost of $500 to $700 is not unusual if you wear the lenses daily and replace them every two weeks. If you replace your contacts approximately every two weeks, this means you need about five boxes (30 lenses) per eye, or a total of 10 boxes per year. This comes to an annual contact lens cost of roughly $220 to $260 (lenses only).
While these lenses cost less on a unit basis than conventional lenses, by the time you purchase a year's supply, if you are one of those consumers still buying your contacts at the doctor's office, you can easily spend $600-$700 per year. Moreover, daily-disposable contacts are generally considered the safest and healthiest type of contact lenses because the use of a fresh pair of lenses every day minimizes the chance for build-up of harmful pathogens on the lens surface. Each of the major US contact lens manufacturers offers a daily disposable contact.
Cost of Contact Lens Solutions. Don't forget about the cost of contact lens solutions to clean and disinfect your lenses. If you wear contacts on a daily wear basis and clean and disinfect them after each use, expect your annual cost for contact lens care solutions to be roughly $150 to $200. So to determine your combined yearly contact lens costs for lenses and solutions, add $150 to $200 to the above totals. If you replace your contacts approximately every two weeks, this means you need about five boxes (30 lenses) per eye, or a total of 10 boxes per year. This comes to an annual contact lens cost of roughly $220 to $260 (lenses only).
A 12-month supply of extended wear silicone hydrogel contacts typically will cost $250 to $300. These lenses usually cost $50 to $70 for a box of six lenses, and you will need at least four or five boxes during a 12-month period (especially if you lose or damage some lenses, or wear them for less than 30 days). If you replace your contacts approximately every two weeks, this means you need about five boxes (30 lenses) per eye, or a total of 10 boxes per year. This comes to an annual contact lens cost of roughly $220 to $260 (lenses only).
SofLens daily disposable Toric For Astigmatism 30 Pack By Bausch + Lomb $21.95 / Box $19.76 / Box-Sale! Daily Disposable contact lenses represent the ultimate in convenience-wear them for a day and then throw them away. Dailies are the ideal contact lens for busy people who don't have time to clean and care for their contacts.