While latent or latency period may be synonymous, a distinction is sometimes made between incubation period, the period between infection and clinical onset of the disease, and latent period, the time from infection to infectiousness. Which is shorter depends on the disease. A person may be a carrier of a disease, such as Streptococcus in the throat, without exhibiting any symptoms. Depending on the disease, the person may or may not be contagious during the incubation period.
The incubation period of influenza is usually two days but can range from one to four days. What are the symptoms of influenza? Typical influenza disease is characterized by abrupt onset of fever, aching muscles, sore throat, and non-productive cough. 
The typical incubation period for influenza is 1—4 days (average: 2 days). Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Respiratory illnesses caused by influenza virus infection are difficult to distinguish from illnesses caused by other respiratory pathogens on the basis of signs and symptoms alone.
Incubation Period. The incubation period, or time from clinical exposure to the onset of clinical signs, is approximately 2 to 4 days for CIV. This is a relatively short incubation period that is similar to that of influenza infection in other species. However, it is shorter compared to other causes of acute respiratory disease in canines, such as canine distemper and Bordetella bronchiseptica.
Incubation Period. According to the CDC, although the incubation period can range from one to four days, the typical incubation period is two days. People can begin infecting others about one day before any symptoms of the virus appear, and are contagious for about a week after that. Signs of the flu include high fever, headache, extreme fatigue, sore throat, coughing, muscle aches and pains, and sometimes a runny or stuffy nose. Influenza is a highly contagious respiratory illness. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, every year between 5 and 20 percent of people in the United States get the flu. More than 200,000 are hospitalized due to flu-related complications and nearly 36,000 die from causes related to the virus
Ascertainment of the incubation period for influenza virus (H5N1) is important to define exposure periods for surveillance of patients with suspected influenza virus (H5N1) infection. Limited data on the incubation period suggest that illness onset occurs 7 days after the last exposure to sick or dead poultry (1 – 4). 
Missing from the table (which will be corrected in the next edition) is the incubation period of Ebola virus, which is 2 to 21 days. I would also argue that the incubation period of HIV is not 1-10 years, but 2-4 weeks, the time until the prodromal symptoms occur. The characteristic symptom of HIV-1 infection, immunosuppression, occurs much later.
The incubation period for A(H5N1) avian influenza may be longer than that for normal seasonal influenza, which is around 2 to 3 days. Current data for A(H5N1) infection indicate an incubation period ranging from 2 to 8 days and possibly as long as 17 days. 