Ochratoxins are a small group of chemically related toxic fungal metabolites (mycotoxins) produced by certain moulds of the genera Aspergillus and Penicillium growing on a wide range of raw food commodities. Some ochratoxins are potent toxins and their presence in food is undesirable. The only other ochratoxin found in food is ochratoxin B, which is rare and much less toxic. Other structurally related ochratoxins include ochratoxin C, α and β. These have been isolated from fungal cultures, but are not normally found in foods. The remainder of this section therefore refers specifically to OTA
Movie 1. Ochratoxins are mycotoxins produced by several species of Aspergillus and Penicillium. Ochratoxin A is the most economically important form of ochratoxin; ochratoxins B and C are less toxic and less common. Ochratoxins may be transferred through milk, blood, and meat. Ochtratoxin poisoning is thought to be the cause of a chronic kidney disease in humans known as Balkan endemic nephropathy. Ochratoxin contamination is economically important in cereal grains, grapes, coffee, tree nuts, and figs. Penicillium verrucosum is the leading cause of ochratoxin contamination of cereal grains in temperate climates.
Ochratoxins are a group of mycotoxins produced by some Aspergillus species and some Penicillium species, especially P. verrucosum and P. carbonarius. Ochratoxin A is the most prevalent and relevant fungal toxin of this group, while ochratoxins B and C are of lesser importance. 
ochratoxin, ochratoxin A. an isocoumarin derivative mycotoxin produced by the fungus Acpergillus spp. fungi. A nephrotoxin causing ochratoxicosis. Experimentally it has been shown to have teratogenic effects, especially in pigs, including eye malformation, hydrocephalus, short jaw, other skeletal and cardiac defects. 
Ochratoxin A is the most prevalent and relevant fungal toxin of this group, while ochratoxins B and C are of lesser importance. Ochratoxin A is known to occur in commodities such as cereals, coffee, dried fruit, and red wine. It is possibly a human carcinogen and is of special interest as it can be accumulated in the meat of animals.
Field cases of ochratoxin A-induced nephropathy are regularly encountered in pigs and poultry. Ochratoxin A is teratogenic in the mouse, rat, and hamster. Ochratoxin B, rarely found as a natural contaminant, is much less toxic; the other ochratoxins have never been encountered in natural products. The nephrotoxic potential of ochratoxin A is well documented from all experimental studies, with a feed level of 200 µg/kg causing nephropathy in pigs and rats
Ochratoxins occur in nature as Ochratoxin A, B, and C. OTA is the most prevalent toxin, and our discussion will be limited to OTA. OTA is a proven carcinogen in animals and is classified as a class 2B, possible human carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer [ 4 ]. 
Ochratoxin A, a toxin produced by Aspergillus ochraceus, Aspergillus carbonarius and Penicillium verrucosum, is one of the most-abundant food-contaminating mycotoxins. It is also a frequent contaminant of water-damaged houses and of heating ducts. Ochratoxin A has a strong affinity for the brain, especially the cerebellum (Purkinje cells), ventral mesencephalon, and hippocampal structures. The affinity for the hippocampus could be relevant to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and subchronic administration to rodents induces hippocampal neurodegeneration.