In the event where you are however already experiencing hair loss around your edges the following can help to reverse this: 1. Natural Oils/Growth Aids applied on edges: Use a natural oil on your edges such as Wura’s Secret Hair Growth Oil, Jojoba Oil or Castor Oil. Either of these natural oils will provide your hair with much needed nourishment, rejuvenation and stimulate the hair follicles to grow faster. 3. When lace front wigs or weaves are glued to our very edges. I will advise that everyone use other forms of protective styling that do not involve using glue on the hair. A tell-tale sign that your hair style is too tight is when you notice little bumps or even tiny scabs (in more serious cases) around your fore head.
My edges & hair fell out about 1 year ago. Now my hair stops at my chin instead of by my upper back. I decided to go natural so I need some good home remedies or hair products that will grow my hair without harsh chemicals like petroleum & mineral oil. Thanks!!!! It also helps to melt some coconut oil and put it on the scalp, over night if possible. Olive oil on the scalp will help also. 3. I found that tea tree oil would cleanse the scalp and clean extra well in order to start regrowth.
Those oils really did grow your edges back. Maybe you can help me with my problem. I am male, I started growing my hair out my sophmore year in high school. I am a senior now my hair as I know of is very healthy but for some reason I am seeing a little fading of my edges. 
Step 4: The growth of your edges is going to take time and consistency. If you continue to avoid styles that put too much strain on your hair, reduce manipulation and nourish your edges they will grow back but it is going to take consistency. If your situation is really bad have a Dermatologist evaluate your hair. If your follicles are not dead and you haven’t suffered permanent hair loss with patience and consistency you can reclaim your hairline! Follow these steps to grow back your edges:
Advice: Thinning edges are caused by slow growth, scalp infection or an excessive amount of tension/stress applied to a specific area over a long period of time. To help the hair grow back, the hair follicles need to be rejuvenated to improve blood circulation and promote more hair growth. 
4. i now use an oil mix containing emu n jbco n other oils on my edges, nape and scalp and give my head a massage this is like every week/2weeks to maintain my edges and i still rarely put my hair up if i do the edges are left out or not slicked down or are in such loose styles it doesnt pull. 5. 
3. If you have lost a lot of hair on your edges, try not to use extension at all for the next 6 months, then mix castor oil and coconut oil, and regularly massage the area you are trying to regrow. We sell both oils. 4. As for me, I have one of the fullest but most delicate edges ever, as I always mention on this blog. Any slight mishandling, my edges are gone. This is also due to the fact that the hair around my edges is baby hair, and can't stand stress.
How I Helped My Mom Regrow Her Edges in 5 Months. Edges + Hairline Natural Hair Care. by Black Girl With Long Hair –. Traction alopecia is a form of alopecia, or gradual hair loss, caused primarily by pulling force being applied to the hair. 
When it comes to Black hair, many of us are living on the edge—literally and figuratively. In the quest for fabulous braids, weaves, color treatments and updos, we're seeing our sisters struggle with hair loss around the hairline. If your thinning edges are slowly getting more and more sparse, I have good and bad news to share. 
Rubbing the thinning areas with oil or oil mixture treatments can also aid in re-growing hair in those areas. These treatments will reduce the damage on your edges by repairing the follicles and encourage hair growth. According to Livestrong, rubbing your scalp with vitamin E is a great way to stimulate growth. 