There will be a symbol on your device to let you know what cards it will accept. SDXC-compatible devices support all types of cards. SDHC-compatible devices support SDHC and SD cards. And SD compatible devices, you guessed it, only support SD cards. Beyond that, if you have the right card type, the brand you choose is up to you. 
Like any flash memory card, it can be used to store various types of files, including photos, videos, music, or software. microSD is one of the smallest memory card formats available; a microSD card is about the size of a fingernail. microSD cards with a memory capacity larger than 2 GB are microSDHC, which uses the exact same technology as SDHC, just in the smaller microSD size. The HC stands for high capacity.
Most of us will use a micro SD (Secure Digital) or SDHC card as they are now used in many different portable devices including mobile phones, digital cameras and personal media players. SD cards are simply a type of flash memory storage device that is portable. It can be easily installed into a device and used to record and store data. As the device is removable the data on it can accessed away from the recording device by using an SD card reader. The micro pretext simply refers to the size of the card. Unlike standard cards a micro SD card can be used in smaller devices which makes them ideal for mobile phones and similar sized devices
Secure Digital (SD) is a non-volatile memory card format developed by the SD Card Association (SDA) for use in portable devices. The standard was introduced in August 1999 as an improvement over MultiMediaCards (MMC), and has become the de facto industry standard. SDIO cards support most of the memory commands of SD cards. SDIO cards can be structured as eight logical cards, although currently, the typical way that an SDIO card uses this capability is to structure itself as one I/O card and one memory card.
While few companies build MMC slots into devices today (SD cards are more common), the embedded card (eMMC) is still widely used in the industry as a primary means of integrated storage in portable devices. MMC is about the size of a postage stamp: 24 mm × 32 mm × 1.4 mm. MMC originally used a 1- bit serial interface, but newer versions of the specification allow transfers of 4 or 8 bits at a time. MMC can be used in most devices that can use SD cards.
SD Cards. A Secure Digital (SD) card is a small data storage device that can be used with digital cameras and camcorders, MP3 players, cell phones, tablets and computers. To find the best SD card for you, consider what size and storage capacity you need. SD cards come in a variety of sizes. You'll need one that fits the device you're using and the type of card reader that's built in. SD, SDHC (SD High Capacity) and SDXC (SD Extended Capacity) memory cards are all 24 mm x 32 mm x 2.1 mm.
This is a convenient way to use a microSD card with a card reader on a PC, to transfer files between a PC and a phone. microSD cards with a memory capacity larger than 2 GB are microSDHC, which uses the exact same technology as SDHC, just in the smaller microSD size. The HC stands for high capacity. These cards can only be used in microSDHC-compatible devices
microSD is a type of removable flash memory card used for storing information. SD is an abbreviation of Secure Digital. The cards are used in mobile phones. The SD and SDHC act the same, but not all devices are able to be used with the newer format. This is even true with devices that have been made by SanDisk like their e200 series of MP3 players. Using 3rd party firmware, SDHC reading can sometimes be done. TransFlash cards are sold in 16MB and 32MB sizes.
The MultiMediaCard (MMC) is a memory card standard used for solid-state storage. Unveiled in 1997 by SanDisk and Siemens AG, it is based on Toshiba 's NAND-based flash memory, and is therefore much smaller than earlier systems based on Intel NOR-based memory such as CompactFlash. MMC is about the size of a postage stamp: 24 mm × 32 mm × 1.4 mm. MMC originally used a 1- bit serial interface, but newer versions of the specification allow transfers of 4 or 8 bits at a time. MMC can be used in most devices that can use SD cards.