Management refers to the process of bringing people together on a common platform and make them work as a single unit to achieve the goals and objectives of an organization. Management is required in all aspects of life and forms an integral part of all businesses. Retail management saves time and ensures the customers easily locate their desired merchandise and return home satisfied. An effective management avoids unnecessary chaos at the store. Effective Management controls shopliftings to a large extent.
A retail manager is the person ultimately responsible for the day-to-day operations (or management) of a retail store. All employees working in the store report to the retail manager. A store manager reports to a district or general manager. 
A store manager might plan and promote the daily schedule of employees and the business, interview, hire, coordinate and discipline employees, make sure the store is stocked, clean and in proper working order, create and maintain budgets, and coordinate with and report to senior management in the company. 1 Time Management: You will be working with employees, customers and management. 2  You might have to create schedules, order supplies and write reports. 3  Time management is essential to make sure everything gets done. 4  Math and Budgeting: Store managers are expected to keep and maintain a budget in almost every field.
Confidence votes 3. Retail management can refer to the way business is conducted in the retail sector: the very stage in which goods and services are delivered to their end users. As a job sector, Retail Management offers positions with names like Retail Store Manager, Retail Area Manager or Retail Assistant Store Manager. The retail management scope is to ensure that all retail activities  are managed in the right way. The function of retail management is  merchandising and ensuring that comm … odities get to the consumer. 8 people found this useful.
Retail management includes all the steps required to bring the customers into the store and fulfill their buying needs. Retail management makes shopping a pleasurable experience and ensures the customers leave the store with a smile. In simpler words, retail management helps customers shop without any difficulty. Retail management saves time and ensures the customers easily locate their desired merchandise and return home satisfied. An effective management avoids unnecessary chaos at the store. Effective Management controls shopliftings to a large extent.
Retail is the process of selling consumer goods and/or services to customers through multiple channels of distribution to earn a profit. Demand is created through diverse target markets and promotional tactics, satisfying consumers' wants and needs through a lean supply chain. 
Retail management styles vary from store to store and manager to manager. However, they all fall into some basic styles of management. Each work, though some better than others, but since employees are also all different, you may find a style that works with one, doesn’t with another. 
Retail management can refer to the way business is conducted in the retail sector: the very stage in which goods and services are delivered to their end users.   As a jo … b sector, Retail Management offers positions with names like Retail Store Manager, Retail Area Manager or Retail Assistant Store Manager. 
Read More... A retail store manager is in charge of overseeing personnel and operations at a retail store. Typically, such stores will specialize in some product offering, although a retail store manager may be hired by department stores to run a section of the larger operation. 