Anencephaly is a condition that prevents the normal development of the brain and the bones of the skull. This condition results when a structure called the neural tube fails to close during the first few weeks of embryonic development. Because anencephaly is caused by abnormalities of the neural tube, it is classified as a neural tube defect. Because the neural tube fails to close properly, the developing brain and spinal cord are exposed to the amniotic fluid that surrounds the fetus in the womb.
Anencephaly is a condition present at birth that affects the formation of the brain and the skull bones that surround the head. Anencephaly results in only minimal development of the brain. 
Anencephaly is a defect in the closure of the neural tube during fetal development. The neural tube is a narrow channel that folds and closes between the 3rd and 4th weeks of pregnancy to form the brain and spinal cord of the embryo. Anencephaly occurs when the cephalic or head end of the neural tube fails to close, resulting in the absence of a major portion of the brain, skull, and scalp.
Anencephaly is a condition that prevents the normal development of the brain and the bones of the skull. This condition results when a structure called the neural tube fails to close during the first few weeks of embryonic development. *Anencephaly facts medical author: Melissa Conrad Stoeppler, STöPPLER. 1  Md anencephaly is an example of a neural tube, defect a condition that results from an error in the first weeks of embryonic. 2  Development in, anencephaly the bones of the skull and brain do not develop.  properly
Anencephaly, also known as “open skull,” is a birth defect in which the major parts of the brain, scalp, and skull of the fetus do not form completely as it is developing in the womb. An infant who is born with anencephaly has some or most of the brain missing. These infants are unconscious, cannot feel, and are usually blind and deaf. In many cases, some brain tissue may be exposed because parts of the skull are missing. Some infants may have a primitive brain stem at birth.
1 Anencephaly is an example of a neural tube defect, a condition that results from an error in the first weeks of embryonic development. 2  In anencephaly, the bones of the skull and brain do not develop properly. 3  Babies with anencephaly are missing large areas of the brain and have an incomplete skull. *Anencephaly facts medical author: Melissa Conrad Stoeppler, STöPPLER. 1  Md anencephaly is an example of a neural tube, defect a condition that results from an error in the first weeks of embryonic. 2  Development in, anencephaly the bones of the skull and brain do not develop.  properly
Click here to view a larger image. Anencephaly is a serious birth defect in which a baby is born without parts of the brain and skull. It is a type of neural tube defect (NTD). These are birth defects that happen during the first month of pregnancy, usually before a woman knows she is pregnant. Anencephaly happens if the upper part of the neural tube does not close all the way. This often results in a baby being born without the front part of the brain (forebrain) and the thinking and coordinating part of the brain (cerebrum). The remaining parts of the brain are often not covered by bone or skin.
Anencephaly is a condition present at birth that affects the formation of the brain and the skull bones that surround the head. Anencephaly results in only minimal development of the brain. Anencephaly is a type of neural tube defect. Neural tube defects, spina bifida (open spine) and anencephaly (open skull) are seen in one to two per 1,000 live births. During pregnancy, the human brain and spine begin as a flat plate of cells, which rolls into a tube, called the neural tube.