Evy /evy/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name means life, animal. Evy is a version of Eve (Latin, Hebrew). Evoy is a conventional surname. Evy is an uncommonly occurring first name for women. Evy is also an unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Prominent varying forms of Evy (not in Top 1000) are Aoife, Ebba, Eva (#82 last year) , Eve (#460) , Evelina, Eveline, Evelyn (#16) , Evette, Evie (#501) and Evonn
[ 2 syll. e-vy, ev-y ] The baby girl name Evy is pronounced IY-Viy- †. Evy's language of origin is Hebrew and it is used mainly in the English language. Evy is a variant transcription of Eve (English and French). Evy is a baby girl name of irregular use. It is not listed in the top 1000. Within the family of girl names directly linked to Evy, Eve was the most commonly used in 2012.
Ivy is a very popular first name for women (#697 out of 4276, Top 16%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#2602 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Ivy for girls. Ivy reached its top position of #146 in the U.S. in the year 2014. 
Origin of the name Evie: Derived from the Hebrew Chava (life), which is from hawwah (life). The name is borne in the Bible by the first woman, the mother of all the living.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book. 
Hebrew Meaning: The name Evie is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Evie is: Life, living, lively. Famous bearer: the Old Testament mother of the human race who tasted the forbidden fruit, precipitating the Fall of Man. American Meaning: The name Evie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Evie is: Life, living, lively. Famous bearer: the Old Testament mother of the human race who tasted the forbidden fruit, precipitating the Fall of Man. Latin Meaning: The name Evie is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Evie is: Living one. The Latin form of the Hebrew Eve.
Greek Meaning: The name Ivy is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Ivy is: Ivy. American Meaning: The name Ivy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ivy is: Ivy. English Meaning: The name Ivy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ivy is: Faithfulness. This name is derived from the plant name.
Our research results for the name of Evy (Evy name meaning, Origin of Evy, Pronounced etc. ) is fit name.You can give to your baby with complacency. 
More About Dutch Name: Evi. Evi is a very greek name. it is the abbreviation of paraskevi a very common greek name. Evi is a name of Hebrew origin. It is just another form of Eva (from the bible), just like Ivy, Eve, Evie, Evita, Evelyn etc. Evi is not a very common name. 