If you’re asking “What is parched corn” at this point, let me fill you in. Parched corn is a lot like the partly popped kernels in popcorn – you know, the ones with the white stripes down them – except it’s a lot more tender, tastes a bit better and doesn’t get stuck in your teeth. It’s kind of like corn nuts – except it’s the real thing!
Parched corn–dried corn which has been roasted–is one of those legendary Native American foods, like pemmican, which you hear about but don’t necessarily ever get to try. Parched corn is a lightweight, long-keeping, high-energy trail food. See, real parched corn should be made by stripping the whole dried kernels off of dried ears of especially bred parching corn. Corn you’ve grown yourself, of course. Parching corn is bred for good flavor and soft texture, and the red breeds are supposed to be the very best.
Parched Corn. Parching corn was yet another way folks made use of the dried corn they had gathered from their fields to feed themselves and their animals through the winter months. The little girl in the photo-is Granny standing by her Mother, Gazzie, who is holding Lucky-Granny's youngest brother
8 Comments. Share this post. Dried corn on the left, parched corn with peas and blueberries on right. I was thinking about trail food, and wishing for a portable snack which was not based on nuts and chocolate chips (though there’s nothing wrong with that!) or too sugary, like dried fruit or energy bars. See, real parched corn should be made by stripping the whole dried kernels off of dried ears of especially bred parching corn. Corn you’ve grown yourself, of course. Parching corn is bred for good flavor and soft texture, and the red breeds are supposed to be the very best.
Dried corn ready to be parched. Corn – You can boil it, toast it, roast it, parch it, eat it raw, grill it, steam it, stew it, cream it, grind it, feed humans or animals with it. You can eat it fresh, freeze it, can it, dry it, drink it or burn it in your vehicle. Parched corn is a lot like the partly popped kernels in popcorn – you know, the ones with the white stripes down them – except it’s a lot more tender, tastes a bit better and doesn’t get stuck in your teeth. It’s kind of like corn nuts – except it’s the real thing!
In this video Lonnie shows how to make the traditional parched corn also known as pinole using modern methods. Parched corn is very useful as a trail food or as an important food to store away for hard times. A person can live on parched corn alone for several weeks or longer with no ill affects according to old time woodscraft authorities. 
In the 18th century, parched corn was one of the most important trail foods. It was made by first hanging the fresh corn cobs in the top of your cabin until they thoroughly dried, and then a small amount put in a skillet or spider with some bacon. The bacon grease would keep the corn from sticking and the heat would make the small kernels of dried corn swell up and turn brown. Parched corn is the swollen and browned kernels. Parched corn is a lot easier to digest than dried corn, and it's not as hard on your teeth either
Parched grain is grain that has been cooked by dry roasting. It is an ancient foodstuff and is thought to be one of the earliest ways in which the hunter gatherers in the Fertile Crescent ate grains. Historically, it was a common food in the Middle East, as attested by the following Bible quotes:
Here is a step by step pictorial on how to make parched corn. 1  Your corn must be dried. 2  There are several ways you can dry it but the most common I know of is to hang it in a dry area in your home. 3  It can also be dehydrated in your oven. Parched corn is a lot like the partly popped kernels in popcorn – you know, the ones with the white stripes down them – except it’s a lot more tender, tastes a bit better and doesn’t get stuck in your teeth. It’s kind of like corn nuts – except it’s the real thing!
Instructions. Dry the corn. The primary ingredient of parched corn is dried corn. To dry fresh corn on the cob, hang it in a dry area of your home and allow it to dry out naturally. Frozen corn can be dried in a dehydrator or spread on a cookie sheet and placed in an oven set at 150 degrees. Leave the oven door open a little.