Poaching for rhino horn. Rhino poaching has escalated in recent years and is being driven by the demand for rhino horn in asian countries, particularly Vietnam. It is used in Traditional Chinese Medicine but more and more commonly now it is used as a status symbol to display someone’s success and wealth. According to traditional Chinese texts, such as Li Shih-chen’s 1597 medical text “Pen Ts’ ao Kang Mu”, rhino horn has been used in Chinese medicine for more than 2000 and is used to treat fever, rheumatism, gout, and other disorders.
There is a long history of rhinos being killed for their horns. Reasons include hunting for a trophy and the use of rhino horn for carvings (particularly dagger handles), but the most threatening demand by far is for use in medicine. Rhino horn has been an ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine for centuries. Point-less rhinos = pointless concoction. The relentless demand for rhino horn in traditional medicine, particularly traditional Chinese medicine, is threatening all rhino species with extinction. The current demand is proving completely unsustainable for the remaining rhino populations.
As Richard Ellis, author of Tiger bone and rhino horn wrote in 2005 for the EAZA Rhino Campaign's Info Pack: It is not clear that rhino horn serves any medicinal purpose whatsoever, but it is a testimony to the power of tradition that millions of people believe that it does. According to traditional Chinese texts, such as Li Shih-chen’s 1597 medical text “Pen Ts’ ao Kang Mu”, rhino horn has been used in Chinese medicine for more than 2000 and is used to treat fever, rheumatism, gout, and other disorders.
Part of the reason is the demand in Asia, where the horn is used in traditional Chinese medicine. A kilogram of rhino horn now goes for $60,000 on the black market. That's $16 … 10 an ounce for the rhino horn. Confidence votes 10.4K. The rhinos horns are used by the rhino for defence .It is often removed by poachers to be sold as aphrodisiac in traditional medicines.It is used by superstitious people as a charm to ward off evil.
Rhinoceros are killed by humans for their horns, which are bought and sold on the black market, and which are used by some cultures for ornamental or traditional medicinal purposes. East Asia, specifically Vietnam, is the largest market for rhino horns. Rhinoceros (/raɪˈnɒsərəs/), often abbreviated as rhino, is a group of five extant species of odd-toed ungulates in the family Rhinocerotidae. Two of these species are native to Africa and three to Southern Asia
There is a belief in the West that rhino horn is used as an aphrodisiac and sexual stimulant but this is not correct and seems to have been misunderstood or misinterpreted by Western media. However, research has shown that people in Vietnam are starting to believe this rumour as they are consuming it for new reasons. According to traditional Chinese texts, such as Li Shih-chen’s 1597 medical text “Pen Ts’ ao Kang Mu”, rhino horn has been used in Chinese medicine for more than 2000 and is used to treat fever, rheumatism, gout, and other disorders.
Over the centuries, rhino horns have been carved into ceremonial cups, as well as buttons, belt buckles, hair pins, and paperweights. Far more pervasive, however, is their use in the traditional medicine systems of many Asian countries, from Malaysia and South Korea to India and China, to cure a variety of ailments. Now, science is now stepping in to dispel some of the mystery and fiction surrounding the use of rhino horn. It is believed that there may be some truth behind the rhino horn’s ability to detect poisons which is linked to the composition of the horn. Rhino horns are composed largely of the protein keratin, also the chief component in hair, fingernails, and animal hoove