DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication. Cellular proofreading and error-checking mechanisms ensure near perfect fidelity for DNA replication. By convention, if the base sequence of a single strand of DNA is given, the left end of the sequence is the 5' end, while the right end of the sequence is the 3' end. The strands of the double helix are anti-parallel with one being 5' to 3', and the opposite strand 3' to 5'.
Introduction. DNA is the molecule which controls the synthesis of proteins. Proteins are used for growth and repair and also as enzymes, in which form they catalyse all other cellular activities. Thus DNA is able to exert a controlling influence over the whole cell and ultimately, the whole organism. The segments of DNA which hold the key to this control are the genes.
DNA usually exists as a double-stranded structure, with both strands coiled together to form the characteristic double-helix. Each single strand of DNA is a chain of four types of nucleotides. Nucleotides in DNA contain a deoxyribose sugar, a phosphate, and a nucleobase. By convention, if the base sequence of a single strand of DNA is given, the left end of the sequence is the 5' end, while the right end of the sequence is the 3' end. The strands of the double helix are anti-parallel with one being 5' to 3', and the opposite strand 3' to 5'.
Background. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis is a process by which copies of nucleic acid strands are made. In nature, DNA synthesis takes place in cells by a mechanism known as DNA replication. Using genetic engineering and enzyme chemistry, scientists have developed man-made methods for synthesizing DNA. The most important of these is poly-merase chain reaction (PCR). The order in which the nucleotides are linked, called the sequence, is determined by a process known as DNA sequencing. In a eukaryotic cell, DNA synthesis occurs just prior to cell division through a process called replication. When replication begins the two strands of DNA are separated by a variety of enzymes.
The RNA is assembled using the enzyme RNA polymerase. This process is called transcription. The DNA template strand is read from the 3' to the 5' end and the mRNA is made from the 5' to the 3' end. During transcription only the coding parts of the DNA are copied (the exons). Proteins are used for growth and repair and also as enzymes, in which form they catalyse all other cellular activities. Thus DNA is able to exert a controlling influence over the whole cell and ultimately, the whole organism. The segments of DNA which hold the key to this control are the genes.
This part becomes the message sent to the protein factories of the cell. It is called Messenger RNA (mRNA). mRNA is created using base pairing. Transcription When DNA unzips for protein synthesis, only the needed genes unzip. mRNA nucleotides base pair with the DNA bases. The bases of mRNA are the same as those of DNA except the T is replaced by U (uracil). 
Therefore the DNA is responsible for imparting the information for the amino acids to be formed and their sequence, and hence the type of protein. DNA, is a genetic material present inside the nucleus which has the information that helps in the synthesis of RNA and proteins. The double helix is split then transcribed into RNA... This RNA is then translated 3 bases at a time by ribosomes. Each 3 base combinations codes for one of 20 amino acids... … This amino acids, being polar and non polar in nature, are linked in a chain which then folds in various 3d shapes known as a protein.
Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is used in the manufacture of ribosomes where mRNA and tRNA come together in the synthesis of proteins. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this exercise is to become familiar with the structure of nucleic acids, DNA, RNA and to reinforce the role of DNA and RNA in the process of protein synthesis. Therefore, appreciation of the structure of nucleic acids and DNA, and the process of protein synthesis are essential prerequisites to the understanding of control of cellular activity, drug action, and various disease processes. Nucleic acids are composed of subunits called nucleotides.
How does transcription differ from DNA synthesis? The primary difference between transcription and DNA replication is that only a single strand of mRNA is produced during transcription. During DNA replication both strands need to be copied and DNA polymerase needs to work on both strands at the same time. The other difference between the two processes is that during DNA synthesis the entire chromosome is copied. During transcription specific genes are transcribed in response to signals such as transcription factors.