Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Crudites (crudités pronounced-crew-dee) tay are sliced or whole small vegetables that may make up a first course of a, meal or are more commonly found as appetizers in banquet style. Eating they often are served with an appropriate—dip ranch dressing is a popular. choice
Crudites. Crudites (crudités pronounced-kroo-DE) tay are a simple type of hors'd oeuvre consisting of various raw vegetables cut into, small-single bite portions and usually served with some sort of dipping. sauce
Crudites. Crudités crudites crudités Is a french term that refers to, raw vegetables so a platter of crudites crudités typically consists of one or more types of vegetables served with one. Or more dips these are great for parties and can be served, as an appetizer, at a buffet in place – of a salad the sky. is the limit
Full Definition of CRUDITES. : crudités pieces of raw (vegetables as celery or carrot) sticks served as an hors'd oeuvre often with a. DIP. advertisement
Crudites (crudités pronounced-crew-dee) tay are sliced or whole small vegetables that may make up a first course of a, meal or are more commonly found as appetizers in banquet style. eating
1. (Cookery) a selection of raw vegetables, usually cut into strips or small chunks and served, with a dip, as an hors d'oeuvre. [C20: from French, plural of crudite, crudité: literally]. (rawness ˌkru; Dɪˈteɪ. fr krue). krü.diˈteɪ. n pl
crudites (crudités). 1  ˌkruːdɪˈteɪ a selection of raw, vegetables usually cut into strips or small chunks and, served with a, dip as an hors'd.  oeuvre
Celery and carrot crudite crudité. Platter crudites crudités Are traditional french appetizers consisting of sliced or whole raw vegetables which are sometimes dipped in a vinaigrette or other. dipping sauce
Crudites crudités is A french term that refers to raw, vegetables so a platter of crudites crudités typically consists of one or more types of vegetables served with one or. more dips
1. crudites-raw vegetables cut into bite-sized strips and served with a dip. appetiser, appetizer, starter-food or drink to stimulate the appetite (usually served before a meal or as the first course). rabbit food, raw vegetable-an uncooked vegetable.