ET for market orders eligible for execution at 9:30 a.m. ET, when the market opens. Acceptance of a cancellation request by Fidelity between 9:28 and 9:30 a.m. ET does not guarantee an order cancellation. All requests to cancel an order are processed on a best-efforts basis. ET and 4:00 p.m. ET in thirty minute increments (i.e., 10:00 a.m., 10:30 a.m., 11:00 a.m., etc). If all or part of your order is not executed by the time you’ve selected for expiration, your order will be canceled.
Fidelity accounts may require minimum balances. The sale of ETFs is subject to an activity assessment fee (of between $0.01 and $0.03 per $1,000 of principal) and shares are subject to a short-term trading fee by Fidelity if held less than 30 days.
You can check with your broker for specifics. I use Fidelity, and limit orders are the same price as market orders.. (Drop by our Broker Center to compare a handful of respectable brokerages, several of which charge the same fee for both kinds of orders.). If you place a market order, you're essentially asking your broker to buy or sell a given security as soon as possible, at the best available price. This is the most common kind of order, and the simplest. With a limit order, you state your desire to buy this or that, but only at a certain or better price. So if you place a limit order to buy 50 shares of the Home Surgery Kits Co. (Ticker: OUCHH) at $45, and the stock is trading around $48, your order won't be filled until or unless the stock falls to $45 (or lower). It depends ... For many trades, market orders are good enough
Fidelity reserves the right (but is not obligated) to cancel open orders when the limit price becomes unrealistic in relation to the market price. A cancellation notice will be mailed to you promptly in this event, and you may place a new order if you wish. You must call a Fidelity representative to place the following orders: 1  Cancel and replace a mutual fund order in a brokerage account. 2  Cancel and replace an order in a mutual fund account. 3  Cancel a brokerage account Fidelity Electronic Funds Transfer request.
$7.95 commission applies to online U.S. equity trades in a Fidelity account with a minimum opening balance of $2,500 for Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC retail clients. Sell orders are subject to an activity assessment fee (of between $0.01 to $0.03 per $1000 of principal). Other conditions may apply. There is no cost to open and no annual fee for Fidelity's Traditional, Roth, SEP, and Rollover IRAs. A $50 account closeout fee may apply. Fund investments held in your account may be subject to management, low balance, and short-term trading fees, as described in the offering materials.
† $7.95 trading commission applies to online purchases of U.S. equities in a Fidelity brokerage account with a minimum opening balance of $2,500 for Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC retail clients. Sell orders are subject to an activity assessment fee (of between $0.01 and $0.03 per $1,000 of principal) by Fidelity. Other conditions may apply. See Fidelity.com/commissions for details. 1. Sell orders are subject to an activity assessment fee (of between $0.01 and $0.03 per $1000 of principal). Trades are limited to online domestic equities and options and must be used within 180 days. The sale of ETFs is subject to an activity assessment fee (of between $0.01 and $0.03 per $1,000 of principal) and shares are subject to a short-term trading fee by Fidelity if held less than 30 days.
Fidelity accounts may require minimum balances. The sale of ETFs is subject to an activity assessment fee (of between $0.01 to $0.03 per $1,000 of principal). iShares ETFs and Fidelity ETFs are subject to a short-term trading fee by Fidelity if held less than 30 days. There is no cost to open and no annual fee for Fidelity's Traditional, Roth, SEP, and Rollover IRAs. A $50 account closeout fee may apply. Fund investments held in your account may be subject to management, low balance, and short-term trading fees, as described in the offering materials.
When you place a limit order to buy, the stock is eligible to be purchased at or below your limit price, but never above it. When you place a limit order to sell, the stock is eligible to be sold at or above your limit price, but never below it. Although a limit order enables you to specify a price limit, it does not guarantee that your order will be executed. A sell stop limit order for a listed security placed at 83 is triggered at 83, at which point the order becomes a limit order. The stock would have to trade at 83 again for the sell stop limit order to be considered for execution at 83 or better.