1 The epidermis is the epithelial tissue layer of skin. 2  Hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and sweat glands are epithelial invaginations from the epidermis. 3  The dermis is the connective tissue layer of skin. 4  Embedded within the dermis are hair follicles and sweat glands as well as blood vessels and sensory nerve endings. The skin has two principal layers. 1 
The dermis binds the epidermis to underlying tissues. 2. The dermis consists of connective tissue with collagen and elastic fibers within a gel-like ground substance. 3. Dermal blood vessels carry nutrients to upper layers of skin and help to regulate temperature. 5. Melanocytes, which lie deep in the epidermis and underlying dermis, produce a pigment called melanin that protects deeper cells from the sun's ultraviolet rays. Melanocytes pass melanin to nearby cells through cytocrine secretion.
Back to top. Skin: dermal layers. The dermis, called true skin,  is the layer beneath the epidermis. Its major parts are collagen (a protein that adds strength), reticular fibers (thin protein fibers that add support), and elastic fibers (a protein that adds flexibility). Its two main layers are the epidermis (outer layer) and dermis (inner layer). The epidermis has several strata (layers) that contain four cell types. Keratinocytes produce keratin, a protein that gives skin its strength and flexibility and waterproofs the skin surface.
1. The subcutaneous layer (hypodermis) is composed of loose connective tissue and insulating adipose tissue. It binds the skin to underlying organs and contains the blood vessels that supply the skin. No sharp boundary exists between the dermis and subcutaneous layer. 5. Melanocytes, which lie deep in the epidermis and underlying dermis, produce a pigment called melanin that protects deeper cells from the sun's ultraviolet rays. Melanocytes pass melanin to nearby cells through cytocrine secretion.
The dermis is the inner layer of the skin, and includes: hair follicles, nerves, sweat glands, small blood vessels and sebaceous glands. It is made up of connective tissue and consists of two layers, the stratum papillare (upper layer) and the stratum reticulare. The dermis acts as a supporting structure for the epidermis and contains proteins such as collagen and elastin. These provide the skin with strength, the ability to stretch and the ability to return to its original shape.
The hypodermis (subcutaneous layer) lies beneath the dermis. Loose connective tissue such as adipose tissue (fat) insulates the body, conserving heat. It also contains blood vessels, lymph vessels, and the bases of hair follicles and sweat glands. Its two main layers are the epidermis (outer layer) and dermis (inner layer). The epidermis has several strata (layers) that contain four cell types. Keratinocytes produce keratin, a protein that gives skin its strength and flexibility and waterproofs the skin surface.
deeper, major portion of the dermis that extends from the papillary layer to the underlying subcutaneous layer consists primarily of dense irregular connective tissue through which large bundles of collagen fibers project in all directions and are interwoven into a meshwork that surrounds structures in the dermis. protective functions of the skin. acts as a physical barrier that protects the entire body from physical injury and trauma offers protection against harmful chemicals, toxins, microbes, and excessive heat or cold protects deeper tissues from solar radiation, especially UV rays.
Dermis. The dermis, the skin's next layer, is a thick layer of fibrous and elastic tissue (made mostly of collagen, elastin, and fibrillin) that gives the skin its flexibility and strength. The dermis contains nerve endings, sweat glands and oil (sebaceous) glands, hair follicles, and blood vessels. 
1. The dermis binds the epidermis to underlying tissues. 2. The dermis consists of connective tissue with collagen and elastic fibers within a gel-like ground substance. 3. Dermal blood vessels carry nutrients to upper layers of skin and help to regulate temperature. 4. 5. Melanocytes, which lie deep in the epidermis and underlying dermis, produce a pigment called melanin that protects deeper cells from the sun's ultraviolet rays. Melanocytes pass melanin to nearby cells through cytocrine secretion.
A graphic representation of the interface between skin epithelium and the underlying connective tissue the reticular dermis. The dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis (with which it makes up the cutis) and subcutaneous tissues, that consists of connective tissue and cushions the body from stress and strain. In addition, hair follicles, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, apocrine glands, lymphatic vessels and blood vessels are present in the dermis. Those blood vessels provide nourishment and waste removal for both dermal and epidermal cells.