The tree known as the catuaba is a South American species of tree that grows in rain forests. This tree grows in the rain forests of Brazil and belongs to the same plant family as the famous coca plant-cocaine is an extracted from this plant.
No, catuaba is not a fertility god, catuaba is actually a small, flowering tree that’s native to the Amazon. Hundreds of years ago, Brazil’s native Tupi tribe discovered that catuaba bark has aphrodisiac qualities.
Catuaba is the common name given to a variety of Amazonian trees where the barks are collected and used in Brazilian herbal medicine for sexual dysfunction and as libido enhancer. Erythroxylum vacciniifolium is the more common Catuaba tree.
The appropriate dose of catuaba depends on several factors such as the user's age, health, and several other conditions. At this time there is not enough scientific information to determine an appropriate range of doses for catuaba.
Catuaba is a term used to describe teas made from the bark of types of Brazilian trees. These trees include Anemopaegma arvense, Anemopaegma mirandum, Erythroxylum vacciniifolium, and Trichilia catigua.
Catuaba is a small, vigorous growing tree with yellow and orange flowers and small yellow oval-shaped inedible fruit and grows in the rainforests in the northern part of Brazil.
Catuaba is a medium-sized tree found in the Amazon forest in the northern part of Brazil. In Brazilian herbal medicine, catuaba bark is considered a central nervous system stimulant with aphrodisiac properties and a bark decoction is used for nervousness, poor memory, and sexual weakness.
The name catuaba (pronounced [ka.two.'aba], a Guarani word that means what gives strength to the Indian) is used for the infusions of the bark of a number of trees native to Brazil. The most widely used barks are derived from the trees Trichilia catigua and Erythroxylum vacciniifolium.
Before we proceed on explaining Catuaba as an organic aphrodisiac. This is one of the most common aphrodisiac plants in Brazil, and it is famous for enhancing the sexual erection of males. The aphrodisiac qualities of this plant are firmly believed to be discovered by the Tupi, a native Indians of Brazil.