Order: Squaliform. Dogfish sharks are the second largest of shark orders with 119 species. Dogfish come in all shapes, sizes, and colors and they live in almost every ocean habitat and depth. Dogfish sharks are an excellent example of the exciting biodiversity that can be found among sharks! Photo Gallery. With over 100 species, Dogfish literally come in all shapes and sizes.
Close-up of the head. The spiny dogfish has dorsal spines, no anal fin, and white spots along its back. The caudal fin has asymmetrical lobes, forming a heterocercal tail. The species name acanthias refers to the shark's two spines. While these common names may apply to several species, Squalus acanthias is distinguished by having two spines (one anterior to each dorsal fin) and lacks an anal fin. It is found mostly in shallow waters and further offshore in most parts of the world, especially in temperate waters.
Squalidae, also called dogfish sharks or spiny dogfishes, are a family of sharks in the order Squaliformes. They have two dorsal fins, each with smooth spines, but no anal fin, and their skin is generally rough to the touch. Unlike virtually all other shark species, dogfish sharks possess venom which coats their dorsal spines – this venom is mildly toxic to humans.
The spiny dogfish, spurdog, mud shark, or piked dogfish, Squalus acanthias, is one of the best known species of the Squalidae (dogfish) family of sharks, which is part of the Squaliformes order. While these common names may apply to several species, Squalus acanthias is distinguished by having two spines (one anterior to each dorsal fin) and lacks an anal fin. It is found mostly in shallow waters and further offshore in most parts of the world, especially in temperate waters.
The spiny dogfish is one of the most abundant species of shark in the world is also commonly known as the piked dogfish, the codshark and the thorndog. Fish, squid and crustaceans are the most common meals for the spiny dogfish, but the spiny dogfish is also known to hunt octopus and even other sharks.
Natural History. As their name suggests, spiny dogfish sharks sport sharp, venomous (poisonous) spines in front of each dorsal fin. Their bodies are dark gray above and white below, often with white spotting on the sides. 
Fish Home. Dogfish sharks are characterized by smooth dorsal fin spines, teeth in upper and lower jaws similar in size. The spiny dogfish or piked dogfish is a type of small shark and one of the best known of the dogfish. Just the Facts: The spiny dogfish has dorsal spines, no anal fin, and white spots along its back. They can grow up to 107 cm and are greyish brown in color.