email. Knowledge center. Lipitor, generic name atorvastatin, is a member of a class of drugs called HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or statins. It reduces levels of triglycerides and bad cholesterol (LDL cholesterol) in the blood, while at the same time increasing levels of good cholesterol (HDL cholesterol). 
Lipitor is the brand name of atorvastatin, a statin medication prescribed to lower cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood. High cholesterol levels increase the risk for heart disease, stroke, and other heart-related complications. A: Lipitor is in a class of medications called statins and is used to reduce cholesterol and triglycerides. Statins include the drugs Lipitor (atorvastatin), Zocor (simvastatin), Pravachol (pravastatin), Lescol (fluvastatin) Crestor (rosuvastatin) and Mevacor (lovastatin).
Uses. Atorvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver
Last reviewed on RxList 4/7/2015. Lipitor (atorvastatin) is a statin used for the treatment of elevated total cholesterol, LDL, triglycerides, and to elevate HDL cholesterol. Side effects of Lipitor include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, gas, heartburn, headache, muscle pain, and rhabdomyolysis
LIPITOR is a prescription medicine called a statin that lowers cholesterol in your blood. It lowers the LDL-C (“bad” cholesterol) and triglycerides in your blood. It can raise your HDL-C (“good” cholesterol) as well. 
Atorvastatin is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor or statin, which lowers levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood. Statins may also reduce the risk of heart attack or stroke in patients with risk factors for heart disease. Atorvastatin is also available as brand name Lipitor. Compare Similar Drugs. 
Uses. Atorvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver
Atorvastatin is used together with a proper diet to lower cholesterol and triglyceride (fats) levels in the blood. This medicine may help prevent medical problems (e.g., chest pain, heart attack, or stroke) that are caused by fats clogging the blood vessels. 