Report Abuse. 6 months in Canada as a VISITOR and then 6 months OUTSIDE of Canada before you can enter Canada again BUT if the immigration people at the border think you are trying to LIVE in Canada illegally then you will be denied entry. Sidwell · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Best Answer: 6 months in a one year period is the maximum. You can return back for a short visit, but be aware that Canadian immigration will calculate how many days you've been in the country in one given you and can either deny or cap your visit to a few days.
Report Abuse. U.K. citizens do not need a visa to visit in Canada and they may stay up to 6 months. See site below. It includes a link for info on an extension. Source(s): http://www.canada.org.uk/visa-info/faq/f... Best Answer: &nbsp Six months UK citizens do not need a visa for Canada Even if you are a citizen of a country where you do not require a visa to visit Canada, you must still have a valid passport.
Starting March 15, 2016, if you are a permanent resident of Canada and a citizen of a visa-exempt country, you will need to travel with your Canadian permanent resident (PR) card or PR travel document when flying to Canada. Otherwise, you may not be able to board your flight to Canada. 
heresmine Registered Users (C). Canadians can generally visit for up to 6 months and must maintain a foreign (Canadian) residence. Visits can be (and usually are) undocumented but the underlying status is B2. The 90 rule is for countries designated in the Visa Waiver Program
Tourist Visa. U.S. citizens crossing into Canada as tourists can stay in the country for 180 days without a visa. A few special cases can hamper this trouble-free tourist trip. If you have any criminal record, even for misdemeanors, you'll need to obtain a rehabilitation approval in advance. Crossing Into Canada. You'll need your U.S. passport to travel into Canada by air. Since the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative went into effect in 2009, you can cross into Canada by land or water with any approved travel document.
You can visit the US for up to six months a year (that means 182 days out of the past 12 months, not each calendar year). No visa necessary–but you must be able to prove you are a Canadian citizen or permanent resident and that you will return to Canada when your 182 days are over. And you must have a passport. Canadians are allowed to visit the US for up to six months (182 days) per calendar year. Nationals of other countries are allowed only 90 days. You can accumulate those days by one long trip, or an aggregation of several short ones.
As a Canadian citizen you can stay out to infinity. And remember that the 182-day limit to which you refer is a US immigration rule. It’s not a Canadian construct–except for the few remaining provinces that require you to be in province for at least 182 days plus one day. Canadians are allowed to visit the US for up to six months (182 days) per calendar year. Nationals of other countries are allowed only 90 days. You can accumulate those days by one long trip, or an aggregation of several short ones.
If you want to stay longer than 180 days as a tourist, you have to apply for an extension at least 30 days before you're required to leave Canada. If your application wait time extends beyond your visa expiration, you'll be considered a temporary resident until a decision is made on the extension. Crossing Into Canada. You'll need your U.S. passport to travel into Canada by air. Since the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative went into effect in 2009, you can cross into Canada by land or water with any approved travel document.