The Cult of Serapis was introduced during the 3rd century BC on the orders of Ptolemy I of Egypt as a means to unify the Greeks and Egyptians in his realm. The earliest mention of a Serapis is in the disputed death scene of Alexander (323 BC). Here, Serapis has a temple at Babylon, and is of such importance that he alone is named as being consulted on behalf of the dying king.
Definition of SERAPIS. : an Egyptian god combining attributes of Osiris and Apis and having a widespread cult in Ptolemaic Egypt and ancient Greece. ADVERTISEMENT. Latin, from Greek Sarapis
Be ye wise as serpents . The ancient serpent-god of the Gnostics from the East was Serapis. The various spellings of the name Serapis are Sor-apis (σέραπις, Attic/Ionian Greek), Sarapis (σάραπις, Dorian Greek), Serapin (Greek ὄφις), or in Hebrew Seraph. The Latin word corresponding to Greek Phosphorus is “Lucifer.” Phosphorus (Greek φωσφόρος Phōsphoros), a name meaning “Light-Bringer”, is the Morning Star. The serpent is the symbol of wisdom, knowledge and Gnosis. The Serpent was venerated in Egypt as an emblem of Divinity, an oracle, and as a god.
Name Serapis generally means Mythical Dead Bull Thought to Be Osiris, is of Egyptian origin, Name Serapis is a Masculine (or Boy) name. Similar sounding names: Sarvagjna, Sarveshvara, Serapis, Sarvazad, Shreepushp, Servius, Sarvasiddhanta, Sarvesh, Sarbesh, Shravasti, Sarvak, Sarvashay, Sorabji, Sarabjeet, Sarvacharya, Sarvajit, Sarveshwara, Shoorpakarna, Sarbjit, Srivas, Sarbajit, Shrivas, Sarabjot, Sarvagny, Sarvajina, Sarvika, Sarvag.
Meaning of Serapis. Egyptian name. In Egyptian, the name Serapis means-another name for apis.The name Serapis originated as an Egyptian name. The name Serapis is most often used as a boy name or male name. Egyptian Name Meaning-another name for apis. Origin-Egypt. 
THE PROBABLE ORIGIN OF SERAPIS. The ancient speculations cited in the preceding chapter are all baseless theories, due to the ingenious refinements of the Alexandrian literati, and springing out of the system of allegorical interpretation in which the New Platonists so much delighted. Another of his titles is Kalantika, Time as the Destroyer: it can hardly be a mere accidental coincidence that such was the exact name given to the head-dress worn by the Egyptian priests when officiating--in later times a purple cloth covering the head, and falling down upon the neck, surmounted by two plumes.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Serapis in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Serapis in Nautical Flags page. Serapis is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Se-ra-pis. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Serapis Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Serapis has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Serapis to other names. Serapis falls into the Egyptian myth name category
The name Serapis is a combination of Osiris (Gr and Lat Osiris, Egyptian Usir) and Apis (Gr and Lat Apis, Egyptian Hapi). He is actually the deceased Apis, a fertility god from Memphis in the shape of a bull, who had become immortal as Serapis, hence the connection with the Egyptian god of the underworld Osiris. His traditional Egyptian name was preserved though and translated by the Greeks as Serapis. The jurisdiction of the God was extended considerably as well. Not only was he still being worshiped as a fertility and underworld god, but now also as a medicine god, patron of the sailors and even as the new chief god.
However, there is evidence which implies that cult of Serapis existed before the Ptolemies came to power in Alexandria-a temple of Sarapis (or Roman Serapis) in Egypt is mentioned in 323 BC by both Plutarch (Life of Alexander, 76) and Arrian (Anabasis, VII, 26, 2). The earliest mention of a Serapis is in the disputed death scene of Alexander (323 BC). Here, Serapis has a temple at Babylon, and is of such importance that he alone is named as being consulted on behalf of the dying king.