Osteoporosis-pseudoglioma syndrome is a rare condition characterized by severe thinning of the bones (osteoporosis) and eye abnormalities that lead to vision loss. In people with this condition, osteoporosis is usually recognized in early childhood. 
Osteoporosis is a disease where decreased bone strength increases the risk of a broken bone. It is the most common reason for a broken bone among people who are old. Bones that commonly break include the back bones, the bones of the forearm, and the hip. Until a broken bone occurs there are typically no symptoms. Bone loss increases after menopause due to lower levels of estrogen. Osteoporosis may also occur due to a number of diseases or treatments including alcoholism, anorexia, hyperthyroidism, surgical removal of the ovaries, and kidney disease.
Osteoporosis facts. 1  Osteoporosis is a condition of fragile bone with an increased susceptibility to fracture. 2  Osteoporosis weakens bone and increases risk of bones breaking. 3  Bone mass (bone density) decreases after 35 years of age, and bone loss occurs more rapidly in women after menopause. Osteoporosis literally leads to abnormally porous bone that is compressible, like a sponge. This disorder of the skeleton weakens the bone and results in frequent fractures (breaks) in the bones. Osteopenia is a condition of bone that is slightly less dense than normal bone but not to the degree of bone in osteoporosis.
Osteoporosis is defined as a condition in which the amount of bone and the quality of bone is not normal (quality refers to the structure of the bone which allows it to be strong and flexible at the same time so it can support you and resist fracture). 
Osteoporosis is a common disease that weakens bones. As bones weaken, your risk of sudden and unexpected fractures increases. Osteopenia is the forerunner of osteoporosis. It is a silent but destructive condition that robs bones during a woman's -- even a young woman's -- most productive time. No matter what your age or sex, osteoporosis and osteopenia can affect you
Osteoporosis, which means porous bone, is a disease in which the bones gradually become weak and brittle. The condition often results in broken bones, or fractures, especially of the hip, wrist, and spine, even from simple activities like lifting a chair or bending over. Osteoporosis is sometimes considered a silent disease because bone loss occurs without symptoms. In fact, many people do not know they have the disease until they break a bone. Osteoporosis can also cause a vertebra (one of the 33 bony segments that form the spine) to collapse.
Osteoporosis is a condition in which bone matter is lost, leading to bones with a reduced density. This increases the risk of fractures. This condition is often a progressive age-related loss of tissue, but is also associated with various other risk factors. Osteoporosis is a condition in which the density of bones is reduced due to increased loss of material from them. This results in impairments in the strength and function of these structure
Osteoporosis Overview. Osteoporosis is a disease characterized by low bone mass and loss of bone tissue that may lead to weak and fragile bones. If you have osteoporosis, you have an increased risk for fractured bones (broken bones), particularly in the hip, spine, and wrist. Osteoporosis is often considered to be a condition that frail elderly women develop. However, the damage from osteoporosis begins much earlier in life. 
1 Osteoporosis is a condition of fragile bone with an increased susceptibility to fracture. 2  Osteoporosis weakens bone and increases risk of bones breaking. 3  Bone mass (bone density) decreases after 35 years of age, and bone loss occurs more rapidly in women after menopause. Osteoporosis literally leads to abnormally porous bone that is compressible, like a sponge. This disorder of the skeleton weakens the bone and results in frequent fractures (breaks) in the bones. Osteopenia is a condition of bone that is slightly less dense than normal bone but not to the degree of bone in osteoporosis.