DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Phenylbutazone has been removed from the United States market due to the availability of newer drugs with less adverse effects. Phenylbutazone is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) effective in treating fever, pain, and inflammation in the body. As a group, NSAIDs are non-narcotic relievers of mild to moderate pain of many causes, including injury, menstrual cramps, arthritis and other musculoskeletal conditions.
Phenylbutazone (Bute) Use in Horses. Phenylbutazone (Bute) is an analgesic (relieves pain) and anti-inflammatory medication, commonly used for the treatment of lameness in horses. It belongs to a group of medications known as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS).
Definition of PHENYLBUTAZONE. : a drug C19H20N2O2 that is used for its analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties especially in the treatment of arthritis, gout, and bursitis. ADVERTISEMENT.
Phenylbutazone is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) and cylooxygenase inhibitor. It is a potent pain reliever, antipyretic and anti-inflammatory. In the horse, it is used commonly for lameness, resulting from soft-tissue injury, muscle soreness, bone and joint problems, and laminitis.
“Bute” (phenylbutazone) and Banamine® (flunixin meglumine) are the most commonly used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) in the horse. They are very useful drugs used for a variety of conditions and signs.
Phenylbutazone tablets for horses are a prescription medication available as 1 gram (1000mg) tablets. •. Phenylbutazone is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat pain and inflammation associated with fractures, arthritis, and painful injuries to the limbs and joints.
Phenylbutazone for Horses is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat pain and inflammation associated with fractures, arthritis, and painful injuries to the limbs and joints. Phenylbutazone requires a prescription from your veterinarian, and is sold by the tablet.
How it works: Phenylbutazone is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) which through its anti-inflammatory action can relieve pain, reduce inflammation and reduce fever. Cautions: Do not give Phenylbutazone to pregnant or lactating mares.