For example, in cell G7, I would like Excel to enter the number from E7 or F7. If my boss enters the data for the row correctly, there shouldn't be numbers in both E and F, only E or F. I wanted to do the formula for cell G7 as: =E7 or F7 It's not working. Thank you so much. For example, in cell G7, I would like Excel to enter the number from E7 or F7. If my boss enters the data for the row correctly, there shouldn't be numbers in both E and F, only E or F. I wanted to do the formula for cell G7 as: =E7 or F7.
COUNTIF function syntax. The syntax of the COUNTIF function is COUNTIF(range,criterion) . Range is the range of cells in which you want to count cells meeting a given criterion. Criterion is a number, date, or expression that determines whether to count a given cell in the range. The COUNT function counts the number of cells in a range containing a numeric value. For example, the formula COUNT(B5:C14) in cell C2 displays 9 because nine cells (the cells in C5:C13) in the range B5:C14 contain numbers. (See Figure 2.).
If you need to count the number of cells that contain text, you can do so with the COUNTIF function and a wildcard. In the generic form of the formula (above), rng is a range of cells, and * is a wildcard matching any number of characters. Click here to count cells that contain specific text. In the example, the active cell contains this formula: Here's how the formula works: COUNTIF counts the number of cells that match the supplied criteria. In this case, the criteria is supplied as the wildcard character * which matches any number of text characters. A few notes: 1  The logical values TRUE and FALSE are not counted as text
To enter an array formula, press CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER. Use the COUNTIF() function to count the occurrences of a text string. For example, use the formula. where. is the range of cells that you are evaluating, and. is the text string that you want to count instances of (note that. must be enclosed in quotation marks). is the number that you want to count. NOTE: This formula must be entered as an array formula. To enter an array formula, press CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER. Use this formula. where. is the range that you want to search, and. is the text that you want to find (the text
Either a formula for counting the use of a word in a range of cells or if that's not possible, at least where I can just add up high numbers; as I enter it into my spreadsheet from a source off my computer within a single cell and not having to use 50 horizontal cells using the basic sum formula. 
Excel formula to compare two cells and select the one with smaller value. up vote -1 down vote favorite. I want to compare two cells in Excel. Both have a certain value. I want to select the cell with the smaller value and use that in a formula. For example: 1  Cell E1 is 961.454 and cell E3 is 962.22. 2  Cmpare E1 and E3. 3  E1 is smaller, now I want to reference E1 in a formula, e.g. 4  E1-C4*D4.
The COUNTBLANK function counts the number of blank cells in a range. For example, the formula COUNTBLANK(B5:C14) entered in cell C4 returns a value of 2 because two cells (B14 and C14) in the range B5:C14 contain blanks. The COUNT function counts the number of cells in a range containing a numeric value. For example, the formula COUNT(B5:C14) in cell C2 displays 9 because nine cells (the cells in C5:C13) in the range B5:C14 contain numbers. (See Figure 2.).
You can also use SUMPRODUCT to count text values along with the function ISTEXT like so: The double hyphen (called a double unary) coerces the result of ISTEXT from a logical value of TRUE or FALSE, to 1's and 0's. SUMPRODUCT then sums these values together to get a result. In the generic form of the formula (above), rng is a range of cells, and * is a wildcard matching any number of characters. Click here to count cells that contain specific text. In the example, the active cell contains this formula: