Person-centered therapy (PCT) is also known as person-centered psychotherapy, person-centered counseling, client-centered therapy and Rogerian psychotherapy. PCT is a form of talk-psychotherapy developed by psychologist Carl Rogers in the 1940s and 1950s. Person-centered therapy, now considered a founding work in the humanistic school of psychotherapies, began formally with Carl Rogers.
by Dagmar Pescitelli. Rogerian therapy involves the therapist's entry into the client's unique phenomenological world. In mirroring this world, the therapist does not disagree or point out contradictions (Shaffer, 1978). Neither does he/she attempt to delve into the unconscious. The focus is on immediate conscious experience. 
Rogerian Therapy. Person centered therapy (PCT) is also known as client centered therapy and Rogerian psychotherapy. PCT is a form of talk therapy developed by psychologist Carl Rogers. 
Misconceptions of Rogerian therapy are common. One misconception is that the counselor is supposed to adopt a passive, laissez faire attitude—just stay out of the client's way and let things evolve. Rogers said that comes across to the client as uncaring, even rejecting. The counselor provides a warm and supportive atmosphere in which the client can do some self-exploration. Especially in the early days of Rogerian therapy, many client-centered therapists tried to restate what the client was saying, to make sure the therapist had a clear understanding.
Rogerian therapy. Client-centered therapy Humanistic psychology A form of psychoanalysis in which a therapist with an 'unconditioned positive regard' for the client attempts to ↓ negative aspects of overdependence on others, and ↑ self-reliance. See Humanistic psychology. Cf Psychoanalysis, Psycho
Person-Centered Therapy was developed by Carl Rogers. He referred to it as counseling rather than psychotherapy. He also believed that the relationship between the client and the therapist is not a patient-doctor relationship in which the patient passively submits to something that is done to him/her by the healer. On the contrary, it should be a person-to-person relationship in which the therapists talks with the client
Rogerian therapy hinges on nurturing the belief that despite negative physical, genetic and psychosocial influences, the client is ultimately in control of his or her life. Rogerian therapy is most useful for patients with anxiety, stress and emotional problems. Client-centered therapy Humanistic psychology A form of psychoanalysis in which a therapist with an 'unconditioned positive regard' for the client attempts to ↓ negative aspects of overdependence on others, and ↑ self-reliance. See Humanistic psychology.
In Rogerian therapy, the client moves towards the goals of realisation, fulfilment, autonomy, self-determination, and perfection. This process occurs within a critical and intense client-therapist relationship built upon empathetic understanding and unconditional positive regard. This theory emphasizes the importance of the therapeutic relationship as one built on unconditional positive regard, congruency and accurate empathy. For clients beginning Rogerian therapy the most important fact initially is the entry of a new person (the therapist) into their psychological environment. It is the building of this relationship between therapist and client, which will facilitate change in the client
The concept of client-centered therapy is simple. The counselor simply endeavors to understand the client and how the client sees the world. The counselor provides a warm and supportive atmosphere in which the client can do some self-exploration. Especially in the early days of Rogerian therapy, many client-centered therapists tried to restate what the client was saying, to make sure the therapist had a clear understanding.