Psychology Licensing Requirements in California. California's psychologists are licensed by the Board of Psychology (http://www.psychboard.ca.gov). Licensure is based on attaining a doctoral degree, passing state and national licensing examinations, and completing a year of supervised practice.
Registration of Psychological Intern and Assistants. To make the transition easier between Psychological Intern, Psychological Assistant and receiving Licensure as a Psychologist in the State of Nevada, the Board of Psychological Examiners will now be using the PLUS application for all levels. 
Step 2: Earn a Master's Degree. A master's degree is a common requirement for certification or registration of a psychological assistant. States may accept a master's degree in psychology or a master's degree in education with a concentration in psychology or counseling psychology. 
Requirements for this career vary and are often at the discretion of the hiring psychologist. However, a bachelor's degree in psychology could prove beneficial. Keep reading to learn more about becoming a psychologist's assistant. Schools offering Psychology degrees can also be found in these popular choices. Clinical psychologists' assistants help psychologists assess and treat patients. This can include administering and scoring psychological tests and assisting in patients' therapy. Experimental psychologists' assistants participate in the design and execution of psychological experiments.
The training and licensing of clinical psychologists ranges from 4 year undergraduate degree plus a 4 to 6 year doctorate program. Most programs in the U.S. are PhD programs that have a strong focus on research and are typically housed in universities. 
California employs more psychologists than any other state in the country and projects employment growth within the profession of nearly 15 percent from 2010 to 2020. Psychologist salaries are amongst the highest in the country as well, so California is a great place to begin your career in psychology. Psychology is a very important field of study and people’s health can depend on professional psychologists.
While the lowest 10% made about $39,270, the highest 10% brought in $109,470 per year. For individuals interested in a career in psychology, a bachelor’s degree is typically the first step. Most staff assistant psychologist jobs require a minimum of a bachelor’s degree. Education and Training. Most staff assistant psychologist jobs require a minimum of a bachelor’s degree. Individuals may begin their career in an assistant or technician role as they work toward earning a master’s or doctorate in psychology.
Psychologists' assistants most often work with clinical psychologists in medical settings or with experimental psychologists, but some other types of psychologists also hire assistants. There are no set educational requirements, licenses or certifications needed to become a psychologist's assistant. Psychologists usually look for people who have taken college classes in psychology and have experience working in psychological settings. Clinical psychologists' assistants help psychologists assess and treat patients. This can include administering and scoring psychological tests and assisting in patients' therapy. Experimental psychologists' assistants participate in the design and execution of psychological experiments.
For psychologists, the lowest 10 percent earned a wage lower than $39,200 and the top 10 percent earned wages that exceeded $111,810. The career outlook for a psychologist in California is encouraging, with growth projected to be in the range of 15 percent between 2010 and 2020. Psychologist salaries are amongst the highest in the country as well, so California is a great place to begin your career in psychology. Psychology is a very important field of study and people’s health can depend on professional psychologists.