Track Record. Quoin has a track record of success in building web and mobile applications. Since the emergence of the Internet for delivering information and services, we have developed applications that support millions of page-views per month and millions of dollars of revenue. Drive. The drive to build something new and to make it perform flawlessly. Quoin is a boutique technology firm that delivers innovative web and mobile solutions to a range of industries. We provide expert consulting and support to our clients — from startups to Fortune 50 companies.
Du Quoin (doo-KOYN) is a city in Perry County, Illinois, United States. The population was 6,448 at the 2000 census. In the early 19th century, Du Quoin was near the Lusk's Ferry Road, an important early road that connected Kaskaskia with Lusk's Ferry on the Ohio River. The road ran easterly out of Steeleville to a point southwest of DuQuoin. There it turned to the southeast to cross the Big Muddy River and head for Lusk's Ferry.
Quoin has come to be known as the accentuation of a building's corner with short side header bricks or stone blocks and long side stretcher bricks or stone blocks that may differ from the wall masonry in size, color, or texture. Most often found in European or Western-derived architecture, from ancient Rome, to 17th century France and England, and 19th century buildings in the United States.
Definition of QUOIN. 1. a: a solid exterior angle (as of a building) b: one of the members (as a block) forming a quoin and usually differentiated from the adjoining walls by material, texture, color, size, or projection. 2. : the keystone or a voussoir of an arch
Noun. 1. quoin-expandable metal or wooden wedge used by printers to lock up a form within a chase. coign, coigne. wedge-something solid that is usable as an inclined plane (shaped like a V) that can be pushed between two things to separate them. quoin. 1. an external solid angle of a wall or the like. 2. one of the stones forming it; cornerstone. 3. a wedge-shaped piece of wood, stone, or other material, used for any of various purposes. 4. a wedge of wood or metal for securing type in a chase
Du Quoin is located at 38°0′N 89°14′W﻿ / ﻿38.000°N 89.233°W﻿ / 38.000; -89.233 (38.0068, -89.2349). The city of Du Quoin is located in the southeastern portion of Perry County, Illinois. According to the 2010 census, the city has a total area of 7.06 square miles (18.3 km 2), of which 6.98 square miles (18.1 km 2) (or 98.87%) is land and 0.08 square miles (0.21 km 2) (or 1.13%) is water. In the early 19th century, Du Quoin was near the Lusk's Ferry Road, an important early road that connected Kaskaskia with Lusk's Ferry on the Ohio River. The road ran easterly out of Steeleville to a point southwest of DuQuoin. There it turned to the southeast to cross the Big Muddy River and head for Lusk's Ferry.
In a traditional, often decorative use, large exactly cuboid ashlar stone blocks or replicas are only used on the corners with their longest sides horizontally: the longest sides are laid to be on one wall plane then the other that the corner forms (course after course). Stone quoins are used on stone or brick buildings. Brick quoins may appear on brick buildings that extrude from the facing brickwork in such a way as to give the appearance of uniformly cut blocks of stone larger than the bricks.
The noun QUOIN has 3 senses: 1. expandable metal or wooden wedge used by printers to lock up a form within a chase. 2. the keystone of an arch. 3. (architecture) solid exterior angle of a building; especially one formed by a cornerstone. Familiarity information: QUOIN used as a noun is uncommon. Hypernyms (quoin is a kind of...): construction; structure (a thing constructed; a complex entity constructed of many parts). Domain category: architecture (the discipline dealing with the principles of design and construction and ornamentation of fine buildings).
/kwɔɪn/) are masonry blocks at the corner of a wall. They exist in some cases to provide actual strength for a wall made with inferior stone or rubble and in other cases to make a feature of a corner, creating an impression of permanence and strength, and reinforcing the onlooker’s sense of a structure’s presence. Stone quoins are used on stone or brick buildings. Brick quoins may appear on brick buildings that extrude from the facing brickwork in such a way as to give the appearance of uniformly cut blocks of stone larger than the bricks.