Examples of popular arginine analogs include L-arginine, arginine malate, arginine alpha-ketoglutarate, arginine keto-isocaproate and/or arginine ethyl ester. Consult with your doctor before adding any supplement to your weight-loss program. L-Arginine has many important functions in the human body, but its most relevant effects for weight loss are boosting levels of nitric oxide (NO) and HGH (human growth hormone), according to Everything You Need to NO by Jordana Brown. Photo Credit littlehenrabi/iStock/Getty Images. L-Arginine may have potent effects on your weight-loss results. As an essential amino acid, arginine exists in your diet as a component of protein-rich foods.
What Is L-Arginine. Arginine is an amino acid, building block of protein that is naturally produced in your body and is also found in many foods. Foods rich in protein, such as dairy products, meats, fish, nuts, gelatin, oats, wheat germ, and soybeans are great sources of arginine. You may have heard of arginine as a supplement that’s popular among bodybuilders. It is often used by avid exercisers and athletes who are looking to lose body fat. While a magic pill for weight loss is not on the market yet, arginine might be just what you need to help convert more protein into muscle.
1 However, taking 7.4 grams of L-arginine by mouth daily, together with omega-3 faty acids and a balanced nutritional supplement, for 6 months does not improve body weight or fat mass, energy intake, or immune function in people who are HIV-positive. L-arginine is found in red meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. It can also be made in a laboratory and used as medicine. L-arginine is used for heart and blood vessel conditions including congestive heart failure (CHF), chest pain, high blood pressure, and coronary artery disease.
Medline Plus also notes that L-arginine is possibly effective for the chest pain associated with coronary artery disease -- although it does not improve heart disease itself -- erectile dysfunction, cramping in the legs associated with atherosclerosis, heart attack and increased gestational blood pressure. Once in the body, L-arginine is converted into another chemical, known as nitric oxide, which can improve blood flow and stimulate the release of certain hormones, including insulin and growth hormone.
L-arginine is converted in the body into a chemical called nitric oxide. Nitric oxide causes blood vessels to open wider for improved blood flow. L-arginine also stimulates the release of growth hormone, insulin, and other substances in the body. The improved blood flow helps to supply your muscles with much-needed nutrients. If you’re taking any sort of preworkout supplement odds are it contains an amino acid called L-arginine. If you’ve never looked at the label or wondered what does L-arginine do – it’s time to take a minute and learn about the substances you are putting into your body.
While your body does produce arginine on its own, the body can become deficient due to injuries or various health conditions. Signs that you may need to supplement your diet with L-arginine include slow healing of wounds, hair loss, constipation, and skin rashes. You may have heard of arginine as a supplement that’s popular among bodybuilders. It is often used by avid exercisers and athletes who are looking to lose body fat. While a magic pill for weight loss is not on the market yet, arginine might be just what you need to help convert more protein into muscle.
L-arginine is converted in the body into a chemical called nitric oxide. Nitric oxide causes blood vessels to open wider for improved blood flow. L-arginine also stimulates the release of growth hormone, insulin, and other substances in the body. L-arginine is found in red meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. It can also be made in a laboratory and used as medicine. L-arginine is used for heart and blood vessel conditions including congestive heart failure (CHF), chest pain, high blood pressure, and coronary artery disease.
L-arginine helps your body regulate its waste and certain chemical balances. L-arginine helps your body manufacture creatine, a protein that contributes to muscle mass and power. L-arginine also helps the body get rid of creatinine, the waste product associated with this process [source: Mayo Clinic ]. 
Function. L-Arginine has many important functions in the human body, but its most relevant effects for weight loss are boosting levels of nitric oxide (NO) and HGH (human growth hormone), according to Everything You Need to NO by Jordana Brown. Photo Credit littlehenrabi/iStock/Getty Images. L-Arginine may have potent effects on your weight-loss results. As an essential amino acid, arginine exists in your diet as a component of protein-rich foods.
L-arginine, one of the amino acids that make up protein, has been researched for its role in helping to treat and prevent a number of conditions, including congestive heart failure, the common cold, reduced kidney function and erectile dysfunction. Once in the body, L-arginine is converted into another chemical, known as nitric oxide, which can improve blood flow and stimulate the release of certain hormones, including insulin and growth hormone.