Both in worship and in portrayals of the divine, Hindus are infatuated with lotus flowers. The very name of the Hindu worship ritual, puja, can be translated as flower act.. The lotus is the foremost symbol of beauty, prosperity and fertility. According to Hinduism, within each human is the spirit of the sacred lotus. It represents eternity, purity, divinity, and is widely used as a symbol of life, fertility, ever-renewing youth. In the Bhagavad Gita, a human is adjured to be like the lotus; they should work without attachment, dedicating their actions to God, untouched by sin like water on a lotus leaf, like a beautiful flower standing high above the mud and water.
The meaning of the lotus flower is beauty and success.    In the Hindu religion, the Lotus flower is an flower that with every god and goddess. The Supreme Personality … of Godhead, Vishnu, holds the lotus flower. Other Goddess and God holds the lotus flower. The Lotus Flower is the symbol of Peace. In Hinduism, the lotus  blossom is one of the most important symbols used in spirituality  and art. Brahma, the Hindu creator of the world, was born from a  lotus blossom that grew from the navel of Vishnu on the water.  I believe that a lotus tattoo could mean many things.
The lotus flower represents one symbol of fortune in Buddhism. It grows in muddy water, and it is this environment that gives forth the flower’s first and most literal meaning: rising and blooming above the murk to achieve enlightenment. The second meaning, which is related to the first is purification. 
The Lotus and the Hindu religion. Tattoo by Megan Massacre. In the Hindu religion, the lotus–specifically the sacred lotus, is called the Padma. A Padma has special meaning to followers of the Hindu religion as it is associated with a number of their deities, particularly Vishnu and Brahma. Buddhism, like Hinduism, also has a strong tie to the lotus flower. Buddhist symbolism related to the lotus flower is very complex and has many layers which may be combined with one another to create complex imagery of deep meaning.
As a holy symbol in Indian culture and a sacred symbol of Hinduism, the lotus is found throughout the Hindu scriptures. Lord Brahma, the creator of the universe in these scriptures, and Lord Vishnu, the preserver of the universe in these scriptures, are depicted sitting in a lotus. In Hindu, Buddhist and Egyptian religions, the lotus is considered a sacred flower. Among its many meanings and significance, the lotus is a symbol of spontaneous generation, and so it also represents divine birth, spiritual development and creation itself.
The ultimate lotus flower meaning in the Hindu belief system is that the lotus flower symbol represents awakening to the spiritual reality of life. The opening of a lotus flower represents rising from primal thought and base energies to highest spiritual consciousness. The lotus flower in Hinduism has many layers of symbolism. The lotus appears in creation stories, enlightenment stories, and in association with the chakras. Like the Egyptian lotus flower symbolism mentioned on the last page, Hindus have a creation story with a lotus as well.
Lotus Flower is one of the most popular symbols in Hindu religion. It is believed that Lord Brahma emerged from the navel of Lord Vishnu sitting on a lotus. Goddess Saraswati, the Hindu Goddess of learning, is shown sitting on a lotus. Lotus flower is a symbol of eternity, plenty and good fortune and Goddess Lakshmi, the Hindu goddess of wealth, is usually depicted with a lotus flower. Lotus flower is frequently mentioned in the ancient Sanskrit Hindu scriptures, as padma (pink lotus), kamala (red lotus), pundarika (white lotus) and utpala (blue lotus). The earliest reference can be found in the Rg Veda. Numerous gods and goddess in Hindu pantheon are depicted as sitting on the lotus or carrying it.
Goddess of Wisdom, Saraswati is associated with the white Lotus. Virtually every God and Goddess of Hinduism; Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, Lakshmi, Saraswati, Parvati, Durga, Agni, Ganesha, Rama and Surya; are typically shown sitting on the lotus, often holding a lotus flower in their hand. In the Bhagavad Gita, a human is adjured to be like the lotus; they should work without attachment, dedicating their actions to God, untouched by sin like water on a lotus leaf, like a beautiful flower standing high above the mud and water.
The symbolism of Lotus flower is mentioned in the 5th chapter of the Bhagavad Gita by Lord Krishna: One who does all work as an offering to the Lord, abandoning attachment to the results, is as untouched by sin (or Karmic reaction) as a lotus leaf is untouched by water. (5.10). Lotus flower is frequently mentioned in the ancient Sanskrit Hindu scriptures, as padma (pink lotus), kamala (red lotus), pundarika (white lotus) and utpala (blue lotus). The earliest reference can be found in the Rg Veda. Numerous gods and goddess in Hindu pantheon are depicted as sitting on the lotus or carrying it.