Step 1: Cook spinach. In a large pot of rapidly boiling salted water, cook 2 pounds (or two 10-ounce bags) fresh spinach for 1 minute. Step 2: Drain and snip spinach. Drain spinach well, squeezing out excess liquid. Pat spinach dry with paper towels. Snip spinach with kitchen shears to coarsely chop; set aside. Step 3: Prepare cream mixture. In a large skillet cook 1/2 cup chopped onion and 2 to 3 minced garlic cloves in 2 tablespoons hot butter about 5 minutes. Stir in 1 cup whipping cream, 1/4 teaspoon nutmeg, and salt and black pepper to taste. Step 4: Add spinach and cook. Bring onion mixture to boiling; cook, uncovered, until cream begins to thicken
1 Place the potatoes in a large pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. 2  Bring to a boil and cook until the potatoes are fork tender, about 15 minutes. 3  Fold in the spinach and cook for an additional minute. 4  Drain the potato mixture and return to the pot along with A¼ â¼ cup, stock 1 teaspoon, salt and the.  oil Instructions. 1  Place the potatoes in a large pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. 2  Bring to a boil and cook until the potatoes are fork tender, about 15 minutes. 3  Fold in the spinach and cook for an additional minute. 4  Drain the potato mixture and return to the pot along with A¼ â¼ cup, stock 1 teaspoon, salt and the.  oil
Directions: 1  Chop or press garlic and let it sit for 5 minutes to bring out its health-promoting benefits. 2  Bring lightly salted water to a rapid boil in a large pot. 3  Cut stems off spinach leaves and clean well. 4  Cook spinach in boiling water for 1 minute. 5  Drain and press out excess water. 1 Bring lightly salted water to a rapid boil in a large pot. 2  Cut stems off spinach leaves and clean well. 3  This can be done easily by leaving spinach bundled and cutting off stems all at once. 4  Rinse spinach leaves very well as they often contain a lot of soil. 5
1 Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. 2  Add the spinach to the skillet and cover; allow to cook 5 minutes. 3  Stir in the garlic salt and cover again for another 5 minutes; remove from heat. Ready In. 1  Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. 2  Add the spinach to the skillet and cover; allow to cook 5 minutes. 3  Stir in the garlic salt and cover again for another 5 minutes; remove from heat. 4  Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese to serve.
3 Add the spinach to the pan, packing it down a bit if you need to with your hand. Use a couple spatulas to lift the spinach and turn it over in the pan so that you coat more of it with the olive oil and garlic. Do this a couple of times. Cover the pan and cook for 1 minute. Uncover and turn the spinach over again. Put the spinach in a salad spinner to remove any excess moisture. 2 Heat 2 Tbsp olive oil in a large skillet on medium high heat. Add the garlic and saute sauté for about 1, minute until the garlic is just beginning to. brown 3 add the spinach to the, pan packing it down a bit if you need to with your. hand
Boil 1 to 2 inches of water, put on your steamer, and add the spinach and cover. It will seem like a lot of leaves, but they will shrink down when cooked. Another great way to cook spinach is to saute sauté it or fry it in a pan for about 2. minutes Another great way to cook spinach is to saute sauté it or fry it in a pan for about 2. Minutes you can cook it just, washed or you can season. It Today'i ll use, oil, garlic and some red pepper. Flakes'i m using two cups of spinach and'you ll see how it cooks. down
How to Cook Spinach on the Stove. Cook 1 pound spinach, covered, in a small amount of boiling salted water for 3 to 5 minutes or until tender. Drain spinach well, squeezing out excess liquid. Pat spinach dry with paper towels. Snip spinach with kitchen shears to coarsely chop; set aside. Step 3: Prepare cream mixture. In a large skillet cook 1/2 cup chopped onion and 2 to 3 minced garlic cloves in 2 tablespoons hot butter about 5 minutes.
Best Answer: You should actually just steam it (just put 1 cup of water in the pot) - once boiling, it only takes 1 or 2 minutes to wilt, then it is done. Source(s): angel_fish_77 · 7 years ago. · just now. Report Abuse. I would never BOIL any vegetables! That takes all the flavor out of them, and leaches the nutrients into the water-and would overcook it. If it's frozen spinach, you can just microwave it for about 4-5 min .... If it's fresh spinach, just saute it in a frying pan with some olive oil or butter