MRSA (methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus) is a type of staphylococcus bacteria (staph) that is resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics. MRSA is contagious and can cause life-threatening infection. MRSA isn’t found in the natural environment (soil or water). It lives in the nose and on the skin of humans. MRSA is spread by coming in contact with an infected person or by exposure to a MRSA-contaminated object or surface that an infected person touches.
Definition. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection is caused by a type of staph bacteria that's become resistant to many of the antibiotics used to treat ordinary staph infections. 
Anyone can get MRSA through direct contact with an infected wound or by sharing personal items, such as towels or razors, that have touched infected skin. MRSA infection risk can be increased when a person is in certain activities or places that involve crowding, skin-to-skin contact, and shared equipment or supplies. 
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a bacteria that is resistant to many antibiotics. In the community, most MRSA infections are skin infections. In medical facilities, MRSA causes life-threatening bloodstream infections, pneumonia and surgical site infections. 
This tiny cluster of bacteria is methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), seen under a microscope. This strain of the common staph bacteria causes infections in different parts of the body -- including the skin, lungs, and other areas. MRSA is sometimes called a superbug because it doesn’t respond to many antibiotics. Though most MRSA infections are minor, some can be life-threatening
View full size image. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, is a strain of staph bacteria that is resistant to the antibiotics normally used to treat such infections. In the 1940s, some 60 years after the discovery of the bacterium S. aureus, doctors began treating staph infections with penicillin. 
2 Staph bacteria have developed a resistance to penicillin-related antibiotics, including methicillin-these resistant bacteria are called methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA.  Staphylococcus aureus  (S. aureus) refers to an often harmful bacterium, commonly found in the nose and skin of humans. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  MRSA is a form of bacterial infection that is resistant to numerous antibiotics. 2  MRSA infection can begin as a minor skin sore or pimple and become potentially harmful.
MRSA, (methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus), is a form of bacterial infection that is resistant to numerous antibiotics including methicillin, amoxicillin, penicillin and oxacillin, thus making it challenging to treat the infection successfully.1. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  MRSA is a form of bacterial infection that is resistant to numerous antibiotics. 2  MRSA infection can begin as a minor skin sore or pimple and become potentially harmful.
In this article. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a bacterium that causes infections in different parts of the body. It's tougher to treat than most strains of staphylococcus aureus -- or staph -- because it's resistant to some commonly used antibiotics. The symptoms of MRSA depend on where you're infected. Most often, it causes mild infections on the skin, like sores or boils. But it can also cause more serious skin infections or infect surgical wounds, the bloodstream, the lungs, or the urinary tract. Though most MRSA infections aren't serious, some can be life-threatening.
MRSA is the abbreviation for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Staphylococcus is a group of bacteria, familiarly known as Staph (pronounced staff), that can cause a multitude of diseases as a result of infection of various tissues of the body. 