A hygrometer measures the amount of water vapor in the air, or humidity. The higher the temperature, the more water vapor air can hold. The amount of water vapor in the air co … mpared to what it can hold at a given temperature is called relative humidity. The hygrometer is an instrument whose main function is to measure  the relative humidity of dry air. The uses of these instruments are  many, including a humidor and a sauna … .
Humidity is the amount of water vapor in the atmosphere caused by condensation and evaporation. It can be measured as absolute humidity (the amount of water vapor in a unit volume of air), or as relative humidity (the ratio of moisture in the atmosphere to the maximum moisture the atmosphere can hold). This type of hygrometer uses two basic mercury thermometers, one with a wet bulb one with a dry bulb. Evaporation from the water on the wet bulb causes its temperature reading to drop, causing it to show a lower temperature than the dry bulb. Humidity is important for our comfort and our health.
Hygrometer Uses. People use hygrometers to make sure the humidity level in their homes is at a comfortable level. If homes are excessively humid, the air may smell musty, mildew is more likely to develop, and mold is more likely to grow. Using a hygrometer allows homeowners to adjust the humidity in order to be comfortable and to protect their health and their belongings. If your home is too humid, you can use a dehumidifier to bring down the amount of moisture in the air.
A hygrometer measures the amount of water vapor in the air, or humidity. The higher the temperature, the more water vapor air can hold. The amount of water vapor in the air co … mpared to what it can hold at a given temperature is called relative humidity. Relative humidity is given as a percent. Answer. A hygrometer is an instrument for measuring humidity in the surrounding environment. using to bulb thermometers in it one is dry and the other one is wet. the wet one is used to know the amount of humidity due to evaporation and then it's compared with the reading of the dry one to get the difference.
Hygrometers that use human hairs to measure relative humidity measure how much the hair expands or contracts and uses those measurements to determine the amount of relative humidity in the air. Another type of hygrometer uses two thermometers, one with a dry bulb and one with a wet bulb. Using a hygrometer allows homeowners to adjust the humidity in order to be comfortable and to protect their health and their belongings. If your home is too humid, you can use a dehumidifier to bring down the amount of moisture
A hygrometer /haɪˈɡrɒmɨtər/ is an instrument used for measuring the moisture content in the atmosphere. Dewpoint is the temperature at which a sample of moist air (or any other water vapor) at constant pressure reaches water vapor saturation. At this saturation temperature, further cooling results in condensation of water. Chilled mirror dewpoint hygrometers are some of the most precise instruments commonly available.
hygrometer. (hīgrŏm`ətər) , instrument used to measure the moisture content of a gas, as in determining the relative humidity of air. The temperature at which dew or frost forms is a measure of the absolute humidity—the weight of water vapor per unit volume of air or other gas at the temperature before cooling. 