Early Life. Famed conservationist and television show host Steve Irwin was born on February 22, 1962, in Essendon, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Part wildlife expert and part entertainer, Irwin became world famous for his TV series The Crocodile Hunter, among other nature programs.
Stephen Robert Steve Irwin was the owner and manager of the Australia Zoo at Beerwah, Queensland, Australia. He was best known as The Crocodile Hunter, which was the name of the unconventional nature documentary series on television he hosted, assisted by his American-born wife, Terri Irwin.
Famed conservationist and television show host Steve Irwin was born on February 22, 1962, in Essendon, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Part wildlife expert and part entertainer, Irwin became world famous for his TV series The Crocodile Hunter, among other nature programs.
SYDNEY, Australia (CNN) -- Steve Irwin, the TV presenter known as the Crocodile Hunter, has died after being stung by a stingray in a marine accident off Australia's north coast. Media reports say Irwin was diving in waters off Port Douglas, north of Cairns, when the incident happened on Monday morning.
Stephen Robert Irwin was born to Lyn and Bob Irwin on 22 February, 1962, in upper Fern Tree Gully, Victoria. He moved with his parents and two sisters to Beerwah, Queensland, where his folks opened the Beerwah Reptile and Fauna Park in 1970. Steve grew up loving all wildlife, especially reptiles.
Steve Irwin (1962-2006) was an Australian wildlife expert, film and TV host. Irwin was a passionate environmentalist, becoming known for the television program The Crocodil … e Hunter, an unconventional wildlife documentary series which he hosted with his wife Terri Irwin.
Steve Irwin's reaction when he spots the 2,427th crocodile he ever saw in his life. ~ Steve Irwin, seconds before jumping on the thing and wrestling with it. Steve Irwin (1962–2006) was an Australian adventurer, wildlife enthusiast and well-known TV personality.
Steve Irwin did many things involving animals, but, mostly crocs! He was known as the Crocidile Hunter on Discovery. He was on his daughter Bindi's show titled: Bindi the Jung … le Girl. He worked with many animals whether they were marine life or land animals.