Soft Gelatin Capsule Shell: Composition, Formula and Preparation. A soft gel capsule is a one piece, hermetically sealed soft gelatin shell containing a liquid, a suspension or a semisolid; referred to as a fill. A vegetarian gelatin made from Irish moss, which is derived from seaweed and grows off the coast of Ireland, is available but is costlier than the animal-sourced gelatins. The brand name called Vegicap soft capsule.
35 S OLID D OSAGE F ORMS :C APSULES capsule is a shell or a container prepared from gelatin containing one or more medicinal and/or inert substances. The gelatin cap-sule shell may be soft or hard depending on their formulation. Capsules are intended to be swallowed whole by the patient. In instances where patients (especially children) are unable to swallow capsules, the contents of the capsule can be removed and added (e. Hard gelatin capsules are made of two shells: the capsule body and a shorter cap. The cap fits snugly over the open end of the capsule body. The basic hard gelatin capsule shells are made from mixtures of gelatin, sugar, and water. They are clear, colorless, and essentially tasteless. Gelatin is a product obtained by partial hydrolysis of collagen acquired from the skin, white connective tissue, and bones of animals
Gelatin capsules are small shells made from gelatin that are used to enclose various medications and nutritional supplements. Their main goal is to make it easier for people to swallow pills, particularly those that are large or might otherwise be dry and difficult to get down the throat. Gelatin capsules can be easier to swallow and digest. A variety of vitamin supplements use gelatin capsules. Fish oil is often sold in gelatin capsules. The gelatin used to make capsules is often derived from the bones of pigs or cows.
Capsule shells are made of gelatin or other substances, the consistency of which may be adjusted by the addition of substances such as glycerol or sorbitol. The shell should disintegrate in the presence of digestive fluids so that the contents are released. 
1 Hard-shelled capsules, which are typically made using gelatin and contain dry, powdered ingredients or miniature pellets made by e.g. processes of extrusion or spheronisation. 2  These are made in two halves: a lower-diameter body that is filled and then sealed using a higher-diameter cap. In the manufacture of pharmaceuticals, encapsulation refers to a range of dosage forms —techniques used to enclose medicines—in a relatively stable shell known as a capsule, allowing them to, for example, be taken orally or be used as suppositories.
The soft gel shell is usually comprised of a film-forming material such as gelatin, and a water-dispersible or water-soluble plasticizer (to impart flexibility). The soft gel shell could also include minor additives such as coloring agents, flavors, sweeteners, opacifying agent, medicaments, acid and preservatives. A vegetarian gelatin made from Irish moss, which is derived from seaweed and grows off the coast of Ireland, is available but is costlier than the animal-sourced gelatins. The brand name called Vegicap soft capsule.
[0087] In some embodiments, the gelatin shell of the capsules contains 0.4 - 5% by weight of amino-acid and the gelatin shell or capsule fill or lubricant used in the manufacture of capsules contains 0.01 - 10% by weight of an ester of carboxyl acid or its salt. At the same time, the gelatin composition of the shell or capsule fill or lubricant oil used in the manufacture and/or combinations of these parts of gelatin capsule further contain from 0.01 to 10% of weight of an ester of carboxylic acid, referred to dry matter of the shell, i.e. weight of capsule fill.
A schematic presentation of the gelatin manufacturing process appears in the figure. 4. 1. Hard gelatin capsule: The majority of capsule products is made of hard gelatin capsules. Hard gelatin capsules are made of two shells: the capsule body and a shorter cap. The cap fits tightly over the open end of the capsule body. Soft gelatin capsules are prepared by adding a plasticizer, such as glycerin or polyhydric alcohol (e. g ., sorbitol), to gelatin. The plasticizer makes gelatin elastic. Soft gelatin capsules come in various shapes such as spherical, elliptical, oblong, and special tube shapes with and without twist off (Figure 11).