The vaccination is included in a combination vaccine called canine distemper-measles-parainfluenza shots and DHPP shots. The first vaccine is at 8-12 weeks old, the second at 16 weeks and again at 12 months and every 6 months after. The vaccine can be given intranasally or as a shot. The shot protects the dog from parainfluenza and the nasal administration prevents development and spreading of the disease.
This vaccination also protects against hepatitis (adenovirus), leptospirosis, parvo and parainfluenza, this is known as the 5-way vaccine. Dogs should receive a vaccination against canine distemper at 6, 9, 12 and 15 weeks. A booster shot is provided at 12 months and every year after.
A second vaccination is recommended after 1 year, then boosters every 3 years. Core dog vaccine. Distemper. At least 3 doses, given between 6 and 16 weeks of age. 2 doses, given 3-4 weeks apart. Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing their initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often.
Noncore vaccines include leptospirosis, coronavirus, canine parainfluenza and Bordetella bronchiseptica (both are causes of ' kennel cough '), and Borrelia burgdorferi (causes Lyme Disease). Consult with your veterinarian to select the proper vaccines for your dog or puppy.
Along with Bordetella bronchiseptica (a bacterium) and parainfluenza (a virus), canine adenovirus type 2 (CAV-2) is one of the reasons dogs get kennel cough, which can cause coughing, fever, and a runny nose. A vaccine against CAV-2 is readily available and generally a part of a combination vaccine for other diseases.
Puppies should receive a vaccine every 3 weeks until they are 16 weeks of age. The final vaccine should be given at or after 16 weeks of age for ideal protection. A minimum of 2 vaccines must be given to puppies for the best
At 12 and 15 weeks, a combination vaccine is given. After these puppy parvovirus vaccinations, the dog will receive a booster shot every year as an adult – or every 3 years depending on your vet’s vaccination preferences.