Burns McKinney, portfolio manager at NFJ Investment Group, discusses with CNBC what weak energy means to investors and some of the best places you may want to put your money amid current volatility. 
First a little background. NFJ is a closed-end fund (CEF) that includes a mostly large cap domestic stock portfolio with approximately 23% of the portfolio invested in convertible securities. Certainly, NFJ’s portfolio of stocks and convertible securities is distinct and their performance may not directly correlate with the performance of pure play option-income closed-end funds had these other funds utilized the same strategy.
On Tuesday, December 21, 2010 after the market close, the board of trustees for the closed-end fund NFJ Dividend, Interest & Premium Strategy fund declared an INCREASE of the quarterly dividend from $0.15 to $0.45 per share. Certainly, NFJ’s portfolio of stocks and convertible securities is distinct and their performance may not directly correlate with the performance of pure play option-income closed-end funds had these other funds utilized the same strategy.
AllianzGI NFJ Dividend, Interest & Premium Strategy Fund is a close ended equity mutual fund launched and managed by Allianz Global Investors Fund Management LLC. 
ENFJ (extraversion, intuition, feeling, judgment) is an abbreviation used in the publications of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) to refer to one of sixteen personality types. The MBTI assessment was developed from the work of prominent psychiatrist Carl G. Jung in his book Psychological Types. 1 E – Extraversion preferred to introversion: ENFJs often feel motivated by their interaction with people. 2  They tend to enjoy a wide circle of acquaintances, and they gain energy in social situations. 3  They tend to turn to external sources when making decisions, and want approval from others.
Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn (NFJ) syndrome is a form of ectodermal dysplasia that affects the outer layer of a developing baby called the ectoderm. People with NFJ syndrome are of normal intelligence and tend to be in otherwise good health. Although there is no cure for NFJ, most people with the disorder can expect to live long healthy lives. You should read product labels, and discuss all therapies with a qualified healthcare provider.
This article is about the Myers-Briggs personality type. For the Socionics INFj, see Ethical Intuitive Introvert. INFJ (introversion, intuition, feeling, judging) is an abbreviation used in the publications of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) to refer to one of the sixteen personality types. 
), a diversified closed-end management investment company which seeks current income and gains, with a secondary objective of long-term capital appreciation, today announced its results for the fiscal quarter and nine months ended October 31, 2012. A gene on chromosome 17q12-q21 that encodes a type-I intermediate filament keratin, which typically forms a heterotetramer with KRT5 (type-II) keratins that together form the cytoskeleton of epithelial cells. Molecular pathology. KRT14 mutations are associated with epidermolysis bullosa simplex.
), a diversified closed-end management investment company which seeks current income and gains, with a secondary objective of long-term capital appreciation, today announced its results for the fiscal quarter and nine months ended October 31, 2012. 
Allianzgi NFJ Dividend int & Prm Stgy Fd : , Interest & Premium Strategy Fund: Reports Results for the Fiscal Quarter and Six Months Ended July 31, 2015. at 4-traders.com (Tue, 4:01PM). AllianzGI NFJ Dividend, Interest & Premium Strategy Fund (NFJ) Ex-Dividend Date Scheduled for December 24, 2014. The Fund will invest in a diversified portfolio of dividend-paying common stocks and income-producing convertible securities. The Fund will also employ a strategy of writing call options on equity indexes in an attempt to generate gains from option premium. Sector: Financial. Industry: Closed-End Fund-Equity.