A valley is a hollow or surface depression of the earth bounded by hills or mountains, a natural trough in the earth's surface, that slopes down to a stream, lake or the ocean, formed by water and/or ice erosion. Systems of valleys extend through plains, hills, and mountains. A valley's sides are called valley walls or valley slopes. A valley wall is the side slope of a stream or glacial valley. Rain, frost, wind and the atmosphere are loosening materials which fall into the stream and are carried away.
Hollows, like those in Appalachia, are small valleys nestled between mountains or hills. Giant valleys, called rifts, are found where two pieces of Earth's crust are separated or split apart. One such example is the Great Rift Valley, a rift system stretching from the Middle East to southern Africa. The scars left behind are known by their shapes and where they lie. Some hang; others are hollow. They all take the form of a U or V.. Rivers and streams make most primary valley cuts, carving steep-walled sides and a narrow floor that from afar looks like the letter V..
A valley is a low area between hills, often with a river running through it. The Valley of Marvels in Babille, Ethiopia. In geology, a valley or dale is a depression that is longer than it is wide. The terms U-shaped and V-shaped are descriptive terms of geography to characterize the form of valleys. A valley in its broadest geographic sense is also known as a dale. A valley through which a river runs may also be referred to as a vale. A small, secluded, and often wooded valley is known as a dell or in Scotland as a glen.
Valleys are usually in a U-shaped form. Narrow deep valleys are sometimes called canyons. A valley has two characteristics, one is low land, another is being formed between hills or mountains. Valleys in low areas have an average slope; in the mountains, valleys are deep and narrow. A valley's sides are called valley walls or valley slopes. A valley wall is the side slope of a stream or glacial valley. Rain, frost, wind and the atmosphere are loosening materials which fall into the stream and are carried away.
The Valleys is a British reality television series based in Cardiff, Wales and broadcast on MTV. The show premiered on 25 September 2012. It follows youngsters from the South Wales Valleys as they move to Cardiff to live out their dreams with the help from their new bosses, AK and Jordan. On 1 June 2014 it was announced that The Valleys had been axed by MTV due to the ratings drop, but there hasn't been an official comment from any MTV executives as of yet. The Valleys has performed exceptionally well for MTV with three successful seasons behind it.
Some river and stream valleys, especially those in the mountains or located near the North and South Poles, are transformed by glaciers. The massive blocks of snow and ice slowly creep downhill along the path of least resistance—valleys already cut by rivers and streams. The scars left behind are known by their shapes and where they lie. Some hang; others are hollow. They all take the form of a U or V.. Rivers and streams make most primary valley cuts, carving steep-walled sides and a narrow floor that from afar looks like the letter V..
A valley formed by flowing water, or river valley, is usually V-shaped. The exact shape will depend on the characteristics of the stream flowing through it. Rivers with steep gradients, as in mountain ranges, produce steep walls and a bottom. Shallower slopes may produce broader and gentler valleys. A valley in its broadest geographic sense is also known as a dale. A valley through which a river runs may also be referred to as a vale. A small, secluded, and often wooded valley is known as a dell or in Scotland as a glen.
Full Definition of VALLEY. 1. a: an elongate depression of the earth's surface usually between ranges of hills or mountains b: an area drained by a river and its tributaries. 2. : a low point or condition. 3. Definition of VALLEY for Kids. : an area of lowland between ranges of hills or mountains.
Mountain valleys, for example, tend to have near-vertical walls and a narrow channel, but out on the plains the slopes are shallow and the channel wide. As the waters wind toward the sea, they accentuate natural curves in the land by stripping sediment from the outsides of bends and dumping it on the insides. The scars left behind are known by their shapes and where they lie. Some hang; others are hollow. They all take the form of a U or V.. Rivers and streams make most primary valley cuts, carving steep-walled sides and a narrow floor that from afar looks like the letter V..