They are glands, whose secretion constitutes 60-70 % of the ejaculate. The secretory product of the columnar cell, which may be seen in the lumen of the seminal vesicles, is strongly acidophilic. It contains large amounts of fructose which the spermatozoa utilise as a source of energy. The seminal vesicles develop from the vas deferens. Their histological organisation resembles to some extent that of the vas deferens. They are elongated sacs (about 4 cm long and 2 cm wide) , which taper where they unite with the vas deferens. Each seminal vesicle consists of one coiling tube (about 15cm long) .
1. Movement of sperm cells from testes and secretions from the prostate and seminal vesicles 2. Occurs in response to sympathetic nerve impulses from the spinal cord causing peristaltic contractions of smooth muscle of testicular ducts, epididymis, vas deferens and ejaculatory ducts 3. Lined with a specialized stratified epithelium that includes the spermatogenic cells that give rise to sperm cells seminiferous tubules that produce and secrete male sex hormones iii. Interstitial cells (cells of Leydig)- specialized cells in the space between.
The epithelium of the tubule consists of a type of sustentacular cells known as Sertoli cells, which are tall, columnar type cells that line the tubule. In between the Sertoli cells are spermatogenic cells, which differentiate through meiosis to sperm cells. Sertoli cells function to nourish the developing sperm cells. There are two types: convoluted and straight, convoluted toward the lateral side, and straight as the tubule comes medially to form ducts that will exit the testis. The seminiferous tubules are formed from the testis cords that develop from the primitive gonadal cords, formed from the gonadal ridge.
The pseudostratifiedcolumnar epithelium in seminal vesicles is surrounded by thick fibromuscular tissue. The vesicle epithelium is composed of columnar and basal epithelial cells. The columnar epithelium typically contains large amounts of lipofuscin pigment. An unusual feature of normal epithelial cells is the feature of cellular atypia. However, atypical cells are often encountered in the seminal vesicle epithelium, where epithelial cells with large atypical nuclei often are present. The seminal vesicles are paired, highly coiled, tubular structures located above the prostate and behind the urinary bladder. The seminal vesicles merge with vas deferens before debouching into the intra-prostatic urethra.
The secretion of the seminal vesicles is the third fraction of the ejaculate (the spermatozoa are released with the second fraction-the contents of the vas deferens). The seminal vesicles develop from the vas deferens. Their histological organisation resembles to some extent that of the vas deferens. They are elongated sacs (about 4 cm long and 2 cm wide) , which taper where they unite with the vas deferens. Each seminal vesicle consists of one coiling tube (about 15cm long) .
Each vesicle forms as an outpocketing of the wall of the ampulla of one vas deferens. The seminal vesicles develop as one of three structures of the male reproductive system that develops at the junction between the urethra and vas deferens. Both the urethra and vas deferens are derived from the mesonephric ducts, structures that develop from mesoderm.
The seminal vesicles are paired organs of the male genitourinary system. Specifically, they are genital organs. The male genital organs include the penis, testes, excretory genital ducts, ductus deferens, seminal vesicles, prostate, and bulbourethral glands. Of these organs, the seminal vesicles, prostate, and bulbourethral glands are considered accessory glandular structures. Anterior aspect of the seminal vesicles, terminal parts of the deferent ducts, and the prostate. (Source: Gray's Anatomy.). The ureters pass in between the superior, rounded aspects of the seminal vesicles and the superior portions of the ampullae of the ductus deferentes.
The seminal vesicles (Latin: glandulae vesiculosae), vesicular glands, or seminal glands, are a pair of simple tubular glands posteroinferior to the urinary bladder of some male mammals. Seminal vesicles are located within the pelvis. The seminal vesicles develop as one of three structures of the male reproductive system that develops at the junction between the urethra and vas deferens. Both the urethra and vas deferens are derived from the mesonephric ducts, structures that develop from mesoderm.
The seminal vesicles are a pair of glands that are positioned below the urinary bladder and lateral to the vas deferens. Each vesicle consists of a single tube folded and coiled on itself, with occasional diverticula in its wall. The seminal vesicles develop as one of three structures of the male reproductive system that develops at the junction between the urethra and vas deferens. Both the urethra and vas deferens are derived from the mesonephric ducts, structures that develop from mesoderm.