The average winter temperature is -34 C (-30 F), but the average summer temperature is 3-12 C (37-54 F) which enables this biome to sustain life. Rainfall may vary in different regions of the arctic. Yearly precipitation, including melting snow, is 15 to 25 cm (6 to 10 inches). Soil is formed slowly. Characteristics of tundra include: 1  Extremely cold climate. 2  Low biotic diversity. 3  Simple vegetation structure. 4  Limitation of drainage. 5  Short season of growth and reproduction. 6  Energy and nutrients in the form of dead organic material.
In the tundra it is very cold: the average winter temperature is -25° C, and in the summer it is rarely over 10° C. The summertime only lasts six to eight weeks. In the winter it is dark most of the time, and even in the summer it is usually cloudy and overcast; therefore plants get little sunlight. In the tundra it is very cold: the average winter temperature is -25° C, and in the summer it is rarely over 10° C. The summertime only lasts six to eight weeks. In the winter it is dark most of the time, and even in the summer it is usually cloudy and.
Photograph by Rich Reid. Tundras are among Earth's coldest, harshest biomes. Tundra ecosystems are treeless regions found in the Arctic and on the tops of mountains, where the climate is cold and windy and rainfall is scant. Tundra lands are snow-covered for much of the year, until summer brings a burst of wildflowers
The tundra biome. Tundra is the coldest of all the biomes. Tundra comes from the Finnish word tunturi, meaning treeless plain. It is noted for its frost-molded landscapes, extremely low temperatures, little precipitation, poor nutrients, and short growing seasons. Dead organic material functions as a nutrient pool. Characteristics of tundra include: 1  Extremely cold climate. 2  Low biotic diversity. 3  Simple vegetation structure. 4  Limitation of drainage. 5  Short season of growth and reproduction. 6  Energy and nutrients in the form of dead organic material.
Overall, the tundra biome is a unique and formidable environment with cold temperatures, low precipitation and high winds. Although these harsh conditions make the tundra a difficult environment to survive in, there are some plants and animals that have adapted to these conditions. Besides the very low temperatures, the tundra biome is also unique due to the amount of precipitation it receives each year. The tundra only receives between six to ten inches of precipitation a year, which is less than most of the deserts on Earth.
The Arctic tundra, where the average temperature is 10 to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-12 to -6 degrees Celsius), supports a variety of animal species, including Arctic foxes, polar bears, gray wolves, caribou, snow geese and musk-oxen. Tundras are among Earth's coldest, harshest biomes. Tundra ecosystems are treeless regions found in the Arctic and on the tops of mountains, where the climate is cold and windy and rainfall is scant. Tundra lands are snow-covered for much of the year, until summer brings a burst of wildflowers
Tundra Climate (E). The tundra is a bleak and treeless place. It is cold through all months of the year Summer is a brief period of milder climates when the sun shines almost 24 hours a day. It has been called the land of the midnight sun. But even the sun can't warm the tundra much. The short summer lasts only 6 to 10 weeks
WEATHER: The tundra is the coldest and the driest of all the biomes on Earth. There is very little rainfall in the tundra; it rains less than ten inches a year. Winters here are long, and summers short, sometimes they last for only 6 - 10 weeks. In the winter the temperature can reach -50°F (-45.5°C). 
The characteristics of a tundra are:- extremely cold climate-low biotic diversity-simple vegetation structure-limitation of drainage-large population oscillations-short season of growth and reproduction-energy and nutrients in the form of dead organic material. 