An enlarged prostate is the slow growth of the prostate gland, which is involved in the production of seminal fluid and reproductive function in men. The prostate wraps around the tube that transports urine out of the bladder. It is very common for the prostate gland to become enlarged as a man ages. An enlarged prostate is also known as benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). BPH is generally not caused by infection or cancer. An enlarged prostate many not cause any symptoms or noticeable problems in some men. However, as men age, an enlarged prostate may grow to the point where it presses on the bladder and urethra, causing urine flow to be slower and less forceful.
Prostate gland enlargement is a common condition as men get older. Also called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), prostate gland enlargement can cause bothersome urinary symptoms. Untreated, prostate gland enlargement can block the flow of urine out of the bladder and cause bladder, urinary tract or kidney problems.
The prostate gland, which is normally about the size and shape of a walnut, wraps around the urethra between the pubic bone and the rectum, below the bladder. In the early stage of prostate enlargement, the bladder muscle becomes thicker and forces urine through the narrowed urethra by contracting more powerfully. As the prostate grows larger and the urethra is squeezed more tightly, the bladder might not be able to fully compensate for the problem and completely empty. In some cases, blockage from prostate enlargement may cause repeated urinary tract infections and gradually result in bladder or kidney damage.
It is common for the prostate gland to become enlarged as a man ages. Doctors call the condition benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), benign prostatic hypertrophy, or an enlarged prostate. As a man matures, the prostate goes through two main periods of growth. 
The prostate gland is located below the bladder in men and produces fluid components of semen. Over half of men aged 60 and above have enlargement of the prostate gland. This condition is sometimes called benign prostatic hyperplasia or benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH). It is not known exactly why this enlargement occurs. However, BPH is not cancer and does not cause cancer. Some men have symptoms of BPH while others do not. 
Description. The common term for enlarged prostate is BPH, which stands for benign (non-cancerous) prostatic hyperplasia or hypertrophy. Hyperplasia means that the prostate cells are dividing too rapidly, increasing the total number of cells, and, therefore, the size of the organ itself. Hypertrophy simply means enlargement.. 
(Redirected from Enlarged prostate). Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), also called benign enlargement of the prostate (BEP or BPE), adenofibromyomatous hyperplasia and benign prostatic hypertrophy (technically incorrect usage), is a benign increase in size of the prostate. 
Benign prostate enlargement or hypertrophy/hyperplasia (also known as BPH) is a common condition in men as they age. Prostate tissue can enlarge in response to certain hormones. It can swell and block the flow of urine from the bladder, causing uncomfortable symptoms and potentially infection. 
Enlarged Prostate Symptoms and Causes. In men, urine flows from the bladder through the urethra. BPH is a benign (noncancerous) enlargement of the prostate that blocks the flow of urine through the urethra. The prostate cells gradually multiply, creating an enlargement that puts pressure on the urethra -- the chute through which urine and semen exit the body. Symptoms of enlarged prostate can include: 1  A weak or slow urinary stream. 2  A feeling of incomplete bladder emptying. 3  Difficulty starting urination. 4  Frequent urination. 5  Urgency to urinate. 6  Getting up frequently at night