The term smog was first used in London during the early 1900's to describe the combination of smoke and fog. What we typically call smog today is a mixture of pollutants but is primarily made up of ground-level ozone. Ozone can be beneficial or harmful depending on its location. Severe smog and ground-level ozone problems exist in many major cities, including much of California from San Francisco to San Diego, the mid-Atlantic seaboard from Washington, DC, to southern Maine, and over major cities of the South and Midwest.
Both industrial smog and photochemical smog are forms of air pollution. Although both appear to the eye as yellow-brown haze, they differ in two key ways: chemistry and composition. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, photochemical smog is a mixture of pollutants that form when nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds react to sunlight, creating a haze that is common over cities.
Smog is a type of air pollutant. The word smog was coined in the early 20th century as a portmanteau of the words smoke and fog to refer to smoky fog. The word was then intended to refer to what was sometimes known as pea soup fog, a familiar and serious problem in London from the 19th century to the mid 20th century. Coinage of the term smog is generally attributed to Dr. Henry Antoine Des Voeux in his 1905 paper, Fog and Smoke for a meeting of the Public Health Congress.
Smog is basically derived from the merging of two words; smoke and fog. Smog is also used to describe the type of fog which has smoke or soot in it. Smog is a yellowish or blackish fog formed mainly by a mixture of pollutants in the atmosphere which consists of fine particles and ground level ozone. Smog which occurs mainly because of air pollution, can also be defined as a mixture of various gases with dust and water vapor.
To fully appreciate photochemical smog formation, one must first recognize that nitrogen is transformed between many different substances in the atmosphere. Automobile exhausts release nitrous oxide (NO) along with small amounts of nitrogen dioxide (NO2). 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Photochemical smog is a unique type of air pollution which is caused by reactions between sunlight and pollutants like hydrocarbons and nitrogen dioxide. Although photochemical smog is often invisible, it can be extremely harmful, leading to irritations of the respiratory tract and eyes. Factory pollution can contribute to photochemical smog. Sunlight breaks down combustion components to create smog. Ozone can irritate the respiratory passages and lead to serious medial problems in cases of prolonged exposure. Some measures have been taken around the world to reduce
Modern smog, as found for example in Los Angeles, is a type of air pollution derived from vehicular emission from internal combustion engines and industrial fumes that react in the atmosphere with sunlight to form secondary pollutants that also combine with the primary emissions to form photochemical smog. Coinage of the term smog is generally attributed to Dr. Henry Antoine Des Voeux in his 1905 paper, Fog and Smoke for a meeting of the Public Health Congress.
Photochemical smog was first described in the 1950s. It is the chemical reaction of sunlight, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds in the atmosphere, which leaves airborne particles and ground-level ozone. This noxious mixture of air pollutants may include the following: Coinage of the term smog is generally attributed to Dr. Henry Antoine Des Voeux in his 1905 paper, Fog and Smoke for a meeting of the Public Health Congress.
Post. Share. Photochemical smog (or just smog for short) is a term used to describe air pollution that is a result of the interaction of sunlight with certain chemicals in the atmosphere. One of the primary components of photochemical smog is ozone. While ozone in the stratosphere protects earth from harmful UV radiation, ozone on the ground is hazardous to human health.
Summer smog is sometimes also known as photochemical smog.. This type of smog is caused when sunlight mixes with chemicals in the atmosphere called hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides. Summer smog contains pollutants such as a colorless, odorless gas called ozone. What you need to know about air pollution. Summer can bring more than just sunshine and swimming opportunities. In many urban areas, summer is also associated with smog, a form of air pollution that becomes particularly hazardous on hot days.