A similarly nerve-wracking period for a mortgage borrower occurs when the loan is in underwriting, as lender scrutiny of mortgage applications is called. In mortgage underwriting, the lender puts its borrower's loan application, any financial documents the borrower supplies and the home appraisal under the microscope. Though time varies, the mortgage underwriting process typically ranges from a few days to a few weeks, on average.
Best Answer: The issue is not how long it will take to complete, but how soon they will be ready to exchange contracts, which commits you both to the transaction. Completion is typically 2 to 4 weeks after exchange. 
Ask the Lender. Ask the lender upfront how long it will take to approve your loan. It can't hurt to ask the lender the average time it took to process recent mortgage loans, suggests HSH.com. If you don’t like the answer you get, try another lender. Generally, a lender will tell you from the start what information you must provide when you apply for a loan.
We are going through a mortgage broker and 3 days ago filled all the paper work in to apply for our mortgage. How long does it take for a decision to be made. We are first time buyers and really anxious on the outcome!!!!! Source(s): long mortgage decision made: https://findbest.im/e8/how-long-does-it-...
Link. 0. For getting an official approval for a loan would take 3 – 4 working days to be underwritten. I’m talking about 3 -4 days only if all your documents are completed and fit according to the wants. Else, it would be a long procedure, as the process is going start away from a new end. 0. Actually it should take a couple of days just from the particular time an underwriter receives a loan file to provide approval what you really refer to as an official approval. But if in case your file is having any problem related to credit score or any document related issue than it may take much time to approve.
If the vendor pulls out, it is not down to the lender. I was also told the mortgage in principal is not a guarantee and the application will take as long it takes. It will be 6 weeks since the actual application and nearly 3 weeks since the survey. I can understand the checks and the requirement in the first 3 weeks but how does anybody explain 3 weeks after the survey that it is still not approved. All I want to know is if I am going to get the mortgage or not.
Generally, a lender will ask to see your pay stubs for the last two to three months, W-2 forms and income tax returns with attached schedules from the last two years and bank statements from the previous three months. If the lender asks for additional documentation, get the paperwork submitted as quickly as you can. It can't hurt to ask the lender the average time it took to process recent mortgage loans, suggests HSH.com. If you don’t like the answer you get, try another lender. Generally, a lender will tell you from the start what information you must provide when you apply for a loan.
Income Requirements. A general rule is that you can qualify for a loan of up to twice the family's income (i.e. a family with income of $30,000 a year usually can qualify for a mortgage of up to $60,000). Often, the amount you earn may not be as important as how you earn it. 