Gently remove the hosta from the pot and shake out the roots with your fingers to remove any loose soil. If you are dividing or moving a hosta to a new location, dig out the entire root system and shake out the roots with your fingers. If you're dividing hostas, spring is the best time, although again, you can complete this task throughout the growing season. Spring is best because the soil and temperatures are moderate and the hostas are just emerging. Smaller hostas are easier to transplant and divide than larger ones.
The best time to transplant hostas in early spring, just when they begin to grow. Prepare the new planting bed so you can transplant your hostas soon after you dig them up. Till the soil 12 to 16 inches deep and mix in 6 inches of organic matter (e.g. compost, leaf mold). 
The best time to transplant hostas is anytime they are not blooming, specifically at the end of summer or early fall. Leave hosta roots intact when transplanting them using tips from a sustainable gardener in this free video on plant care. Expert: Yolanda Vanveen. 
Instructions. Transplant hostas is in the late summer, at least 30 days before the frost arrives. When the plant no longer has new shoots growing from the center of the plant cluster---that's your clue that it's time to transplant. Some believe that hostas should be transplanted in spring. Prepare your hostas to be planted (or transplanted). Mail order hostas may arrive as plants with bare roots. Soak the roots in warm water for 20 to 30 minutes. Set in soil that is dug at least a foot deep. Add organic materials to the soil, including peat moss, decomposed leaves and compost.
The best time to divide and transplant hostas is in August or September, about a month before your first frost date. Hostas respond well to early fall division because: ”. The best time to divide and transplant hostas is in August or September, about a month before your first frost date. Hostas respond well to early fall division because: 1  Fall growth spurt: When the midsummer heat eases off and rains return, hostas often have a growth spurt.
How to Transplant Hostas. Before transplanting hostas, it’s best to prepare their new home. Remember, when you’re thinking about the best time to transplant hostas, you should also be thinking about the best place to transplant hosta plants. They could be living there for the next fifty years. Dig the new hole wider and deeper than the old. Hosta plants always need plenty of water and the trauma of transplant, no matter how slight, increases that need. So, the best time to transplant hostas is when Mother Nature is more likely to do the watering for you. It’s also easier to see the new shoots, without risk of leaf damage.
Planting Your Divisions. When you are resetting your hosta plant divisions, they should be the same depth that they were prior to division. This is the ideal time to enrich your soil with ample amounts of compost-and don't forget to soak them after planting. 
When to Transplant Hostas. Before we discuss how to transplant hostas, we need to talk about when to transplant hostas and that involves both time of day and time of year. The best time to transplant hostas is in the spring, but that’s really because it’s easier on you, the gardener, than on the transplant. Hosta plants always need plenty of water and the trauma of transplant, no matter how slight, increases that need. So, the best time to transplant hostas is when Mother Nature is more likely to do the watering for you. It’s also easier to see the new shoots, without risk of leaf damage.
Supporting Your Hostas. When you divide hostas, it is also the right time to incorporate compost into the soil. Compost increases air and water retention and adds nutrients for the hostas. Apply a 2- to 3-inch layer of compost to the area and till it into the soil. To plant the hostas, dig a hole about 1 foot deep