But sometimes in Electronic Circuits we need to produce many different types, frequencies and shapes of Signal Waveforms such as Square Waves, Rectangular Waves, Triangular Waves, Sawtoothed Waveforms and a variety of pulses and spikes. Function Generator. A Function Generator or sometimes called a Waveform Generator is a device or circuit that produces a variety of different waveforms at a desired frequency. It can generate Sine waves, Square waves, Triangular and Sawtooth waveforms as well as other types of output waveforms.
Sine waves. A sine wave has the same shape as the graph of the sine function used in trigonometry. Sine waves are produced by rotating electrical machines such as dynamos and power station turbines and electrical energy is transmitted to the consumer in this form. Signals with repeated shapes are called waveforms and include sine waves, square waves, triangular waves and sawtooth waves. A distinguishing feature of alternating waves is that equal areas are enclosed above and below the X-axis.
◄Back. Basic Audio Wave Shapes. 01/24/2006: The most important characteristic of sounds that have a definite pitch is that they have a repeating waveform. With audio oscillators we can generate what are considered to be the 4 most basic waveforms, the sine, triangle, square, and sawtooth (or ramp) waves. For each of the following waveforms, I have provided a 10-second audio sample of the wave played at a frequency of 110-Hz and a level of -18dBFS. 1: Sine Wave-sounds like the lowest of the samples because it is only playing the fundamental frequency or pure tone of 110-Hz.
The basic wave shape, sine wave features harmonious mathematical properties similar to the sine shape studied in trigonometry class. Test signals generated by the signal generator’s oscillator circuit are often sine waves. Many AC (alternating current) power sources also generate sine waves. Finally, a complex wave indicates a combination of the characteristics of sine, steps, squares and pulses. The signal information in this type of wave may be embedded in the form of amplitude, frequency variations and/or phase. Some oscilloscopes can display specific kinds of complex waveforms in special ways.
The sine wave is important in physics because it retains its wave shape when added to another sine wave of the same frequency and arbitrary phase and magnitude. It is the only periodic waveform that has this property. This property leads to its importance in Fourier analysis and makes it acoustically unique. This wave pattern occurs often in nature, including ocean waves, sound waves, and light waves. A cosine wave is said to be sinusoidal, because which is also a sine wave with a phase-shift of π/2 radians.
The shape of a wave is directly related to its spectral content, or the particular frequencies, amplitudes and phases of its components. Spectral content is the primary factor in our perception of timbre or tone color. 
A waveform is a representation of how alternating current (AC) varies with time. The most familiar AC waveform is the sine wave, which derives its name from the fact that the current or voltage varies with the sine of the elapsed time. Other common AC waveforms are the square wave, the ramp, the sawtooth wave, and the triangular wave. Their general shapes are shown below. An ideal, unmodulated wireless signal has a sine waveform, with a frequency usually measured in megahertz (MHz) or gigahertz (GHz). Household utility current has a sine waveform with a frequency of 60 Hz in most countries including the United States, although in some countries it is 50 Hz.