BREAKING DOWN 'Public Limited Company-PLC'. A limited company grants limited liability to its owners and management. Being a public company allows a firm to sell shares to investors this is benificial in raising capital. Only Public Limited Companies may be listed on the London Stock Exchange and will have the suffix PLC on their ticker symbol.
A public limited company (legally abbreviated to plc) is a type of public company (publicly held company) under United Kingdom company law, some Commonwealth jurisdictions, and the Republic of Ireland. It is a limited (liability) company whose shares may be freely sold and traded to the public (although a plc may also be privately held, often by another plc), with a minimum share capital of £50,000 and the letters PLC after its name. Similar companies in the United States are called publicly traded companies
DEFINITION of 'Public Limited Company-PLC'. The standard legal designation of a company which has offered shares to the general public and has limited liability. A Public Limited Company's stock can be acquired by anyone and holders are only limited to potentially lose the amount paid for the shares. It is a legal form more commonly used in the U.K. Two or more people are required to form such a company, assuming it has a lawful purpose. A limited company grants limited liability to its owners and management. Being a public company allows a firm to sell shares to investors this is benificial in raising capital. Only Public Limited Companies may be listed on the London Stock Exchange and will have the suffix PLC on their ticker symbol.
A PLC can be either an unlisted or listed company on the stock exchanges. In the United Kingdom, a public limited company usually must include the words public limited company or the abbreviation PLC or plc at the end and as part of the legal company name. It is a limited (liability) company whose shares may be freely sold and traded to the public (although a plc may also be privately held, often by another plc), with a minimum share capital of £50,000 and the letters PLC after its name. Similar companies in the United States are called publicly traded companies
Answer by Fwmh. Confidence votes 79.9K. PLC in Electronics, and computers stands for Programmable Logic Controller. ---------------------------------. Public limited company, in the UK, Ireland, Nigeria and Philippines-a type of limited company whose shares may be sold to the public. 
PLC stands for Programmable Logic Controller. Basically its like a small computer that uses simple logic to execute automated processes, like in a factory. Lets say there is a … factory that test balls for color. The desired color is Red and any other color is discarded. Confidence votes 9. Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) or programmable controller is a digital computer used for automation of industrial processes, such as control of machinery on factory assembly lines.
A Programmable Logic Controller, or PLC for short, is simply a special computer device used for industrial control systems. They are used in many industries such as oil refineries, manufacturing lines, conveyor systems and so on. 
A programmable logic controller, PLC, or programmable controller is a digital computer used for automation of typically industrial electromechanical processes, such as control of machinery on factory assembly lines, amusement rides, or light fixtures. PLCs are used in many machines, in many industries. Special-purpose I/O modules may be used where the scan time of the PLC is too long to allow predictable performance. Precision timing modules, or counter modules for use with shaft encoders, are used where the scan time would be too long to reliably count pulses or detect the sense of rotation of an encoder.
PLC stands for public limited company, or in the U.S., a public company.   PLC is a type of limited company whose shares may be offered for sale to the public.   L … inda @ Discount Telephone Marketplace. Confidence votes 9. Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) or programmable controller is a digital computer used for automation of industrial processes, such as control of machinery on factory assembly lines.