The net out-of-pocket total cost you end up paying or financing though student loans is known as the net price. The reported Westminster net price for in-state students $22,688* for the 2013/2014 academic year. This net price includes housing and meal expenses. This could be your effective total out of pocket cost of an education at Westminster College. Note that this calculation assumes you don't pay full list price tuition, are part of the reported 95% of students at this school who receive financial aid and you are paying an average annual net price of $22,291.
The Net Price Calculator is not an application for admission or financial aid. The information collected by the Net Price Calculator will not be retained by Westminster College in any way. To learn more about Westminster College, contact the Office of Admissions to schedule a visit. If a student enrolls at Westminster College without the benefit of financial aid and subsequently meets satisfactory academic progress standards, they can then regain financial aid eligibility. Please note: Students are limited to 1 (one) financial aid suspension appeal while enrolled at Westminster College.
The calculator is intended for use by U.S. citizens or permanent residents who will be incoming first-year students, entering in the fall semester, pursuing their first undergraduate degree and who will be enrolled full time. Please note this calculator is for estimates only and the actual award package will vary depending upon the time of year, regulatory and institutional policy changes, availability of funds, actual test scores and academic information, as well as verifiable financial information from the FAFSA (www.fafsa.gov).
Westminster College is pleased to provide this student aid calculator as a general guide for early financial planning for college. This calculator will provide a preliminary estimate of federal and institutional aid eligibility. The estimates are based on the award policies of the 2013-2014 academic year and are subject to change-The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) results must be received by our priority deadline of February 15th. Please note this calculator is for estimates only and the actual award package will vary depending upon the time of year, regulatory and institutional policy changes, availability of funds, actual test scores and academic information, as well as verifiable financial information from the FAFSA (www.fafsa.gov).
COST OF LIVING OVERVIEW. Our cost of living indices are based on a US average of 100. An amount below 100 means Westminster, Colorado is cheaper than the US average. A cost of living index above 100 means Westminster, Colorado is more expensive. Overall, Westminster, Colorado cost of living is 109.10. 
Westminster education expenses include tuition, fees, room, and board. Westminster is a residential campus, and students must live in on-campus housing unless they meet off campus residency requirements. Direct Costs: 2015-2016 School Year. 
Undergraduate Tuition. Tuition for Westminster College is $29,856 for the 2014/2015 academic year. This is 18% more expensive than the national average private non-profit four year college tuition of $25,229. The cost is $16,692 and 127% more expensive than the average Utah tuition of $13,164 for 4 year colleges. Tuition ranks 25th in Utah amongst 4 year colleges for affordability and is the most expensive 4 year college in the state. This could be your effective total out of pocket cost of an education at Westminster College. Note that this calculation assumes you don't pay full list price tuition, are part of the reported 95% of students at this school who receive financial aid and you are paying an average annual net price of $22,291.
Grant and scholarship aid was given to 95% of freshman students. The average amount awarded was $15,126. When subtracted from the total cost to attend Westminster College Salt Lake and live on campus, the average annual net price for these students was $26,982. One of the Only Times in Your Life When You'll Wish Your Family Made Less Money. Family income can have a large impact on the amount of aid you receive, and thus, your net price. The table below shows the average net price freshmen paid based on income level.
Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 establishes general rules that apply to the student financial assistance programs covering grants and loans. Over a period of six years the average net price paid by all freshmen at Westminster College Utah has increased by an average of 6.3% per year. An overall average net price of $26,982 puts Westminster College Utah above the national average of $21,301. Net price is based on estimates. One of the Only Times in Your Life When You'll Wish Your Family Made Less Money. Family income can have a large impact on the amount of aid you receive, and thus, your net price. The table below shows the average net price freshmen paid based on income level.