1 A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test is an example of a nucleic acid amplification test. 2  This test can also be done on a urine sample. 3  Chlamydia culture. 4  A culture is a special cup that allows the chlamydia bacteria to grow.
Tests used to find a chlamydia infection include: 1  Nucleic acid amplification tests (NAAT) . 2  These tests find the genetic material (DNA) of chlamydia bacteria. 3  These tests are very good at identifying chlamydia.
A test for chlamydia is done to: 1  See whether symptoms of a sexually transmitted infection (STI) are caused by a chlamydia infection. 2  Check people who are at high risk for being infected with chlamydia. 3  A chlamydia infection does not always cause symptoms.
A definitive diagnosis is important since the symptoms of chlamydia can resemble those of gonorrhea and the two infections require different antibiotic treatment. The nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) is the preferred test. This test is based on amplification of the DNA that is present in Chlamydia trachomatis.
1 Chlamydia culture. 2  This is a test to find the bacteria that cause a chlamydia infection. 3  A sample of body fluid from areas such as the cervix, urethra, eye, rectum, or throat is added to certain cells used to grow chlamydia. 4  If no chlamydia bacteria infect the cells, the culture is negative.
1 These tests are very good at identifying chlamydia. 2  A test that is positive almost always means the problem is there and is unlikely to be a false-positive test result. 3  A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test is an example of a nucleic acid amplification test. 4  This test can also be done on a urine sample.
Chlamydia tests use a sample of body fluid or urine to see whether chlamydia bacteria (Chlamydia trachomatis) are present and causing an infection. Chlamydia is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection (STI) in the United States. Tests used to find a chlamydia infection include: 1  Nucleic acid amplification tests (NAAT) . 2  These tests find the genetic material (DNA) of chlamydia bacteria. 3  These tests are very good at identifying chlamydia.