Why Athens was great. Athens was the largest city in Greece, and controlled a region called Attica. Between the many mountains were fertile valleys, with many farms. Athens became rich because Attica also had valuable sources of silver, lead and marble. Athens also had the biggest navy in Greece. A huge statue of Athena stood inside the Parthenon in Athens. Athens. The capital city of modern Greece. In ancient times Athens was a powerful city-state with its own government, laws, army and navy.
Sunny Greece is 1,500 miles from England. It’s capital city is Athens It is famous for its beautiful beaches and sea! Ancient Greece In Ancient Greece, the different cities were at war with each other. The most fearsome fighters came from the town of Sparta. Type: ppt. 1  ancient greece location. 2  greece. 3  Middle. 4  Social Sciences. 
Athens is recognised as a global city because of its geo-strategic location and its importance in shipping, finance, commerce, media, entertainment, arts, international trade, culture, education and tourism. The Athens Metro is more commonly known in Greece as the Attiko Metro (Greek: αττικό Mετρό) and provides public transport throughout the Athens Urban Area. While its main purpose is transport, it also houses Greek artifacts found during construction of the system.
On the Acropolis mountain in Athens, Greece. The Parthenon is near Athens, Greece. Athens, Greece. The Parthenon is an ancient Greek temple located in Athens, Greece.  It was … originally dedicated to the Greek goddess Athena. A replica  of the Parthenon was built in Nashville, Tennessee in 1897. On top of the acropolis, in Athens, Greece. In case your wondering what continent, or even what world it's in; Europe, Earth! It is a beautiful monument to athena, the god of wisdom, whom the city is named after. Giant Pillars and colums line each side of the temple, and it's perched on top of a man-made mountain.
Athens is a smile for you to enjoy. Origin and setting. The history of Athens is the longest of any city in Europe: Athens has been continuously inhabited for at least 3.000 years. It became the leading city of Ancient Greece in the first millennium BC. 
Athens was the host city of the first modern-day Olympic Games in 1896, and 108 years later it welcomed home the 2004 Summer Olympics. Athens is home to the National Archeological Museum, featuring the world's largest collection of ancient Greek antiquities, as well as the new Acropolis Museum. The Athens Metro is more commonly known in Greece as the Attiko Metro (Greek: αττικό Mετρό) and provides public transport throughout the Athens Urban Area. While its main purpose is transport, it also houses Greek artifacts found during construction of the system.
Athens (formally known as Athens-Clarke County) is a consolidated city–county in the U.S. state of Georgia, in the northeastern part of the state, comprising the former city of Athens proper (the county seat) and Clarke County. Athens is the sixth-largest city in Georgia, and the principal city of the Athens-Clarke County, Georgia Metropolitan Statistical Area, which had a population of 192,541 as of the 2010 census. Athens-Clarke County has the smallest geographical area of a county in Georgia
Tweet. Athens is the historical capital of Europe, with a long history, dating from the first settlement in the Neolithic age. In the 5 th Century BC (the “Golden Age of Pericles”) – the culmination of Athens’ long, fascinating history – the city’s values and civilization acquired a universal significance. 
It is the most important archaeological museum in Greece and one of the richest in the world concerning ancient Greek art. Its collections are represe... more ... Athens. The city with the most glorious history in the world, a city worshipped by gods and people, a magical city. The enchanting capital of Greece has always been a birthplace for civilization. It is the city where democracy was born and most of the wise men of ancient times