Vitamin C. Not only may vitamin C help reduce or prevent delayed onset muscle soreness due to exercise, it may also speed along recovery. Vitamin C helps our bodies produce collagen, which strengthens the connective tissue that forms our ligaments and tendons. When we're injured, our requirements for vitamin C seem to increase. Ligaments connect bone to bone and tendons connect muscle to bone. The function of these connectors is important for everyday activities and movements.
Collagen Production. Vitamin C helps wounds heal quicker by assisting with production of collagen, a protein that your body uses to make connective tissues, such as skin, tendons and ligaments. Healing places extra demands on your resources as your body replaces cells and tissues that are lost or damaged through illness, injury or surgery. The added stresses imposed during the healing process can deplete your levels of certain key nutrients. Vitamins may help speed your recovery, in some instances.
Glucosamine helps build cartilage, which is the body's shock absorber. This nutrient is also known to help build strong joints, ligaments and tendons. Glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate produce a material the body needs for healthy skin, tendons, ligaments and joints. Ligaments connect bone to bone and tendons connect muscle to bone. The function of these connectors is important for everyday activities and movements.
Vitamin C. Go eat a bag of oranges NOW! Our ligaments are made of collagen and vitamin C is a key vitamin for collagen production and ligament repair. Your intake of vitamin C should increase immediately after an injury to help support the healing process as it directly assists in wound healing and tissue repair. Your body can not produce vitamin C as it is water soluble so you need to get it from your food.
Vitamin C. Tendons and ligaments also need vitamin C, a nutrient found in many vegetables and fruits, because both tissues contain large amounts of collagen. Vitamin C plays an essential role in new collagen production, and a vitamin C deficiency can weaken your tendons and ligaments by preventing collagen synthesis
Vitamin B-6. Vitamin B-6 may help control inflammation that can damage tendons and ligaments, according a study published in the September 2010 European Journal of Clinical Nutrition.. Participants supplemented with 100 milligrams per day of vitamin B-6 for 12 weeks. Your tendons, which attach muscles to bones, and ligaments, which attach adjacent bones to each other, are made of cords of connective tissue comprised of primarily water and protein strands. These important structures receive very little blood supply relative to muscles and, as a result, heal more slowly from injury
Ligaments and tendons are important for your everyday movements and activities. They can take a lot of wear and tear with just normal activities, but take a tremendous amount of strain when we exercise. This increases the need for certain vitamins and minerals in our bodies. It also stimulates the cells that produce proteoglycans, speeding up the production and healing time of all connective tissues. Vitamin C and Collagen. Collagen is the substance that holds proteoglycans in place. Collagen is the first substance to take on damage when tendons and ligaments are used.
To fully understand how vitamins and supplements can help to protect and repair ligaments and tendons, you must first learn what these tissues need and how each vitamin or supplement contributes to the needs of the tissue. It also stimulates the cells that produce proteoglycans, speeding up the production and healing time of all connective tissues. Vitamin C and Collagen. Collagen is the substance that holds proteoglycans in place. Collagen is the first substance to take on damage when tendons and ligaments are used.