The Earth has an inner core and an outer core. Scientists think that the inner core is solid and mainly made of iron. Iron is very hard – that’s why knights used it to make their armour. The outer core is also mostly iron, but this layer is liquid (melted) iron. The crust is the part of the Earth that we walk on. Compared to the other layers, it is quite thin and breakable. You can think of the crust of the Earth as being a bit like the crust of a pie – although this crust is 5–70 km deep depending on whether you are under the ocean or on top of a mountain!
The Earth is a planet, and all that is below its surface is the Earth itself. The Earth is located in space, where there is no up or down, above or below.. GeoffG · 7 years ago. 
View full size image. Miles beneath the Earth's surface, where no light or air reaches, tiny organisms are eking out a meager existence. Yet despite making up an estimated 6 percent of all life on Earth, researchers know almost nothing about these deep-dwellers. 
Layers of the Earth Inner Core The inner part of the earth is the core. This part of the earth is about 1,800 miles (2,900 km) below the earth's surface. The core is a dense ball of the elements iron and nickel. It is divided into two layers, the inner core and the outer core. The inner core-the center of earth-is solid and about 780 miles (1,250 km) thick. The outer core is so hot that the metal is always molten. The outer core is about 1,370 miles (2,200 km) thick. Because the earth rotates, the outer core spins around the inner core and that causes the earth's magnetism. The outer core is at 1,800 - 3,200 miles (2,890-5,150 km) below the earth's surface.
Tags: Ocean, earth, science. A massive reservoir with three times the volume of all of the oceans combined has been discovered deep below the Earth's surface. This finding could give credence to the belief that the oceans came from within. According to News Scientist, The water is hidden inside a blue rock called ringwoodite that lies 700 kilometres underground in the mantle, the layer of hot rock between Earth's surface and its core.. If it wasn't there, it would be on the surface of the Earth, and mountain tops would be the only land poking out.. The findings on the massive ocean beneath Earth's surface were published in the journal Science. © 2015 Design & Trend All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
Researchers have discovered evidence of water — enough to fill oceans — embedded in minerals deep beneath the surface of the United States that could alter the current understanding of the Earth's composition and how it was formed. The depth of this water is around 400 miles, or 700 kilometers, and the deepest hole ever drilled in the Earth is about 10 kilometers, Jacobsen said. The story has more to do with understanding the composition of the Earth..
The answer is that there is more to our water supply than just surface water, there is also plenty of water beneath our feet. Even though you may only notice water on the Earth's surface, there is much more freshwater stored in the ground than there is in liquid form on the surface. In fact, some of the water you see flowing in rivers comes from seepage of groundwater into river beds. 1 If all of the world's water was poured on the contiguous United States, it would cover the land to a depth of about 107 miles (145 kilometers). 2  Of the freshwater on Earth, much more is stored in the ground than is available in lakes and rivers.
Outer Core The inner part of the earth is the core. This part of the earth is about 1,800 miles (2,900 km) below the earth's surface. The core is a dense ball of the elements iron and nickel. It is divided into two layers, the inner core and the outer core. The inner core-the center of earth-is solid and about 780 miles (1,250 km) thick. The outer core is so hot that the metal is always molten. The outer core is about 1,370 miles (2,200 km) thick. Because the earth rotates, the outer core spins around the inner core and that causes the earth's magnetism. The outer core is at 1,800 - 3,200 miles (2,890-5,150 km) below the earth's surface.
About 71 percent of the Earth's surface is water-covered, and the oceans hold about 96.5 percent of all Earth's water. Water also exists in the air as water vapor, in rivers and lakes, in icecaps and glaciers, in the ground as soil moisture and in aquifers, and even in you and your dog. Water is never sitting still. 1 If all of the world's water was poured on the contiguous United States, it would cover the land to a depth of about 107 miles (145 kilometers). 2  Of the freshwater on Earth, much more is stored in the ground than is available in lakes and rivers.