10. Dermatophytosis (tinea) infections are fungal infections caused by dermatophytes-a group of fungi that invade and grow in dead keratin. Several species commonly invade human keratin and these belong to the Epidermophyton, Microsporum and Trichophyton genera
Ringworm or dermatophytosis is an infection caused by a particular type of fungus that has the ability to grow on the skin and use the superficial layers of the skin, hair or nails as a source of nutrition. 
Dermatophytosis is an infection of the hair, skin, or nails caused by a dermatophyte, which is most commonly of the Trichophyton genus and less commonly of the Microsporum or Epidermophyton genera. Tinea capitis, tinea pedis, and onychomycosis are common dermatologic diseases that may result from such an infection. 
dermatophytosis. 1. any superficial fungal infection caused by a dermatophyte and involving the stratum corneum of the skin, hair, and nails, including onychomycosis and the various forms of tinea. Called also epidermomycosis and epidermophytosis. 2. tinea pedis. An infection of the hair, skin, or nails caused by any one of the dermatophytes. The lesions are characterized by erythema, small papular vesicles, fissures, and scaling. Common sites of infection are the feet (tinea pedis), nails (onychomycosis), and scalp (tinea capitis). Compare: dermatomycosis.
Not to be confused with Roundworm, Pinworm, or Hookworm. Dermatophytosis is a clinical condition caused by fungal infection of the skin in humans, pets such as cats, and domesticated animals such as sheep and cattle. Currently, up to 20% of the population may be infected by dermatophytes at any given time. It is especially common among people who play sports involving skin-to-skin contact, wrestling in particular.
dermatophytosis. 1. epidermomycosis; any superficial fungal infection caused by a dermatophyte and involving the stratum corneum of the skin, hair, and nails, including onychomycosis and the various forms of tinea. 2. tinea pedis. An infection of the hair, skin, or nails caused by any one of the dermatophytes. The lesions are characterized by erythema, small papular vesicles, fissures, and scaling. Common sites of infection are the feet (tinea pedis), nails (onychomycosis), and scalp (tinea capitis). Compare: dermatomycosis.
Dermatophytosis, more commonly known as as ringworm, is a fungal infection of the skin. Ringworm is a misnomer. The infection isn’t caused by a worm. It’s caused by a fungus. Ringworm infection can affect both humans and animals. The infection initially presents itself with red patches on affected areas of the skin and later spreads to other parts of the body. The infection may affect the skin of the scalp, feet, groin, beard, or other areas.
Description: Dermatophytosis (tinea or ringworm) of the scalp, glabrous skin, and nails is caused by a closely related group of fungi known as dermatophytes which have the ability to utilise keratin as a nutrient source, i.e. they have a unique enzymatic capacity [keratinase]. 
What is Dermatophytosis? Also called tinea or ringworm, dermatophytosis is a disease that can affect the scalp (tinea capitis), body (tinea corporis), nails (tinea unguium), feet (tinea pedis), groin (tinea cruris), and bearded skin (tinea harbae). Dermatophytosis-Causes, Symptoms and Treatment.