Hospital costs by age, 2010. In 2010, the average cost per hospital stay was $9,700 and the aggregate cost for all hospital stays totaled $375.9 billion. Figures 1 and 2 show the distribution of aggregate hospital costs and stays by age and the average hospital cost per stay by age, respectively. 
An all inclusive Cancun vacation will vary on cost depending on the length of stay and what amenities you would like included. It is reasonable to get an all inclusive vacatio … n in Cancun for under $100 per day without airfare. 3 people found this useful. Answers Publisher. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. An all inclusive Cancun vacation will vary on cost depending on the length of stay and what amenities you would like included. It is reasonable to get an all inclusive vacation in Cancun for under $100 per day without airfare.
1 meal can cost as much a $50USD. If you purchase your airfare at least 6 months in advance you can find discount flight for about $600 RT. I am saving right now for at least 2 week vacation in Japan but I refuse to go anywhere unless I have at least $10k to travel with. By the way, meals do not cost $50. Food is actually quite cheap, especially the local specialties. Meals range in price from around $8 to $25. Packaged meals sold in 7-11s and AM/PMs are much cheaper, but still of good quality.
The great news is that now more and more regional airlines are offering very reasonable flights to the Maldives. For example, Sri Lankan Airlines flies from Colombo to Male malé for around$ 100 usd-one. Way cheap tickets can also be found On emirates Via, dubai with fares starting at$. 300-low cost Airline Air asia just introduced a route from their hub In Kuala lumpur with fares as low as$ (130 which is How i ended up). here 
Expect to wait a minimum of two weeks for approval. If your trip continues from Sudan to Egypt and you already have your Egyptian visa you may be given a two-week transit visa for Sudan in only a day. The cost is USD100 (USD200 for US citizens). It can be extended in Khartoum (at a hefty cost, though). 
It depends where you are staying at. If you stay at like Shibuya, Harajuku, Shinjuku, or Ginza a week may be as much as $2000-3000 for a week. But last time I stayed there I stayed in a hostel in Asakusa which is about 30-40 minutes to Shibuya by subway. You also have to consider the costs of the airfare. By the way, meals do not cost $50. Food is actually quite cheap, especially the local specialties. Meals range in price from around $8 to $25. Packaged meals sold in 7-11s and AM/PMs are much cheaper, but still of good quality.
Best Answer: This depends a lot on how thrifty you are, on your choice of accommodation, and how much travel you are planning to do. Youth hostels range in price from $35 to $85 per night. Hotels, ryokan(Japanese inns) can be more expensive. By the way, meals do not cost $50. Food is actually quite cheap, especially the local specialties. Meals range in price from around $8 to $25. Packaged meals sold in 7-11s and AM/PMs are much cheaper, but still of good quality.
It can. I think a budget of around $50 USD per day would be perfect for a short vacation to Thailand. You don’t need to spend as much as I did. I spent a lot of money going out, using the Internet for work, and seeing a doctor. If I cut out those expenses, my average drops to 1,421.16 Baht or $47.31 USD per day. Note: $1 USD = 30 Baht. For Thailand, that’s a lot of money. I tell people that backpacking around Thailand costs $30–35 USD per day, depending on how much alcohol you consume and how many days you spend on the islands, where costs are higher. Most of the time, I spend less than that. I just stayed a week in the northern city of Chiang Mai and only spent about $25