The time noted on the UL label indicates how long the fire resistant product was tested to withstand exposure to extreme temperature and still maintain a safe temperature/humidity level inside. The time lengths are ½ hour, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, and 4 hours. For example, if the temperature inside a safe or file exceeds 350°F, it will fail the UL test for paper rated products. For tapes, cartridges, microfiche, and microfilm, the limit is 150°F (with an 85% humidity restriction); for diskettes, the temperature cannot exceed 125°F (with an 80% humidity restriction).
UL LLC is an American worldwide safety consulting and certification company headquartered in Northbrook, Illinois. It maintains offices in 46 countries. UL published its first standard, “Tin Clad Fire Doors ,” in 1903. The following year, the UL Mark made its debut with the labeling of a fire extinguisher. In 1905, UL established a Label Service for certain product categories that require more frequent inspections. UL inspectors conducted the first factory inspections on labeled products at manufacturers’ facilities—a practice that remains a hallmark of UL’s testing and certification program. UL has expanded into an organization with 64 Laboratories, testing and certification facilities serving customers in 104
New Science. UL is proud to share New Science, a powerful initiative showcasing important ways we are making our world safer through fundamental discovery, testing methodologies, software and standards across five areas. OFFERINGS. Find the right service within the UL offer and learn how it meets your particular needs. UL works with a diverse array of stakeholders. We optimize the supply chain for manufacturers and provide them a broad range of services that support every stage of the product life cycle.
5VA. Surface Burn. Burning stops within 60 seconds after five applications of five seconds each of a flame (larger than that used in Vertical Burn testing) to a test bar. Test specimens MAY NOT have a burn-though (no-hole). This is the highest (most flame retardant) UL94 rating. 5VB. Surface Burn. Burning stop within 60 seconds after five applications of five seconds each of a flame (larger than that used in Vertical Burn testing) to a test bar.
FireSafe.com is a complete fire and safety directory created in 1994 for education and research purposes. UL Fire Rated Safe Resouces Guide Learn more about what a UL fire rating is and how fireproof products are tested. UL Standard for Safety for Vault Doors & File Room Doors Complete UL testing standards for the UL 155 Safety Standard. UL 687 Burglary Safe Rating and TL-15, TL-30 Learn more about the UL Burglary requirements for burglary attacks. Burglary Ratings, B and C Rated Learn more about the UL Burglary ratings as well as fire and burglary rated safes.
UL stands for Underwriters Laboratories, an organization that has been around for more than 100 years. If you visit the UL Web site at www.ul.com, you can find the following description: A good nine-word summary used by UL is, A not-for-profit organization dedicated to public safety.. UL sets standards for different product categories and tests products to make sure they meet the standards. In this way, UL is similar to the CE marking organization. UL may also certify the installation of products in the field.
Over the past few years, Underwriters Laboratories has developed optional ratings that are available to manufacturers as suitability for use of products in specific applications. UL developed standards that addressed both Smoke Travel in Buildings, the L Rating, as well as Water Resistance, the W Rating. Below are descriptions of the two optional ratings. “W” Rating – The W Rating quantifiably measures resistance of a firestop product to water in buildings.
To what temperature are fireproof safes, fireproof filing cabinets and fireproof media cabinets tested by UL? There are different time periods for fireproof testing depending on the UL rating that the product is attempting to reach. The most common ratings are for ½ hour, 1 hour, 2 hour, 3 hour, and 4 hour. UL 687 Burglary Safe Rating and TL-15, TL-30 Learn more about the UL Burglary requirements for burglary attacks. Burglary Ratings, B and C Rated Learn more about the UL Burglary ratings as well as fire and burglary rated safes.
UL RATINGS. UL stands for Underwriters Laboratories, an independent organization dedicated to educating businesses and the public about safety and performance of products in a wide spectrum of industries. UL has been testing and rating products for more than 100 years, and evaluates nearly 20,000 products annually. The UL rating is an indicator of product quality and certification of safety. For example, the UL Class 350 1-hour fire rating means that the internal temperature of the safe will not exceed 350°F for at least 1 hour when exposed to external temperatures over 1700°F. A safe may have a 1-, 2-, or 3-hour time classification.