): where C is the salt concentration in the soil after leaching, with a δ w depth of leaching water, applied to a depth of soil δ s, and θ equals the volumetric moisture content. C 0 represents initial concentration of salts in the soil. Pore volume, PV, equals (δ w /δ s θ). Equation (1) suggests that salt leaching increases as the soil water content during leaching decreases (Nielsen et al., ). This is because unsaturated moisture flow allows the salts present in the non‐conducting pores to diffuse.
Reclamation leaching is the application of excess water, usually by sprinklers, until the soil salts are leached out of the intended root zone. In some instances, the land being developed for a landscape is already salt-affected and requires reclamation leaching before landscape plantings can be established. 
For other uses, see Leaching. In agriculture, leaching refers to the loss of water-soluble plant nutrients from the soil, due to rain and irrigation. Soil structure, crop planting, type and application rates of fertilizers, and other factors are taken into account to avoid excessive nutrient loss. Leaching is an environmental concern when it contributes to groundwater contamination. As water from rain, flooding, or other sources seeps into the ground, it can dissolve chemicals and carry them into the underground water supply.
Page Content. The Problem of Leaching. Leaching is the movement of contaminants, such as water-soluble pesticides or fertilizers, carried by water downward through permeable soils. Generally speaking, most pesticides adsorb to soil particles (especially clay), become immobile, and do not leach
A leaching model is a hydrological model by which the leaching with irrigation water of dissolved substances, notably salt, in the soil is described depending on the hydrological regime and the soil 's properties. Owing to irregular distribution of salt in the soil or to irregularity of the soil structure (figure 2), the leaching efficiency (E L) can be different from unity.
Leaching. Removal of materials by dissolving them away from solids is called leaching. The chemical process industries use leaching but the process is usually called extraction, and organic solvents are often used. Basic concept. Heap leaching is a countercurrent process where the solid is in a stationary heap and the solvent percolates through the solid. An example is a dump or landfill. Click to see figure. This leaching is essentially countercurrent.
Salt Leaching. Leaching is the transport of salts out of the root zone using irrigation water. The proportion of the irrigation water used specifically for this purpose is the leaching fraction (LF). The leaching fraction (LF) is water beyond that required for tree growth and crop development–that is, for evapotranspiration (ET).