Environmental determinism. A nineteenth-and early twentieth-century approach to the study of geography that argued that the general laws sought by human geographers could be found in the physical sciences. Geography was therefore the study of how the physical environment caused human activities. 
Geography (from Greek γεωγραφία, geographia, lit. earth description) is a field study of the lands, the features, the inhabitants, and the phenomena of Earth. A literal translation would be to describe or picture or write about the earth. The first person to use the word geography was Eratosthenes (276–194 BC). Human geography is a branch of geography that focuses on the study of patterns and processes that shape the human society. It encompasses the human, political, cultural, social, and economic aspects.
Cultural Geography. Remember that Rishi lives in the desert, while Lin lives on an island. The ways they are raised and the things they do are very different. Culture is the collection of behaviors and traditions of a group of people. For example, in some cultures it is customary for a bride to wear white on her wedding day, while in other cultures, a bride wears red. Cultural geography involves studying how the physical environment interacts with the traditions of people. Humans don't exist in a vacuum. We live with other humans and we live in a specific environment. In this lesson, we'll examine human & cultural geography, including what it is and what types of topics are studied in the field.
Full Definition of GEOGRAPHY. 1. : a science that deals with the description, distribution, and interaction of the diverse physical, biological, and cultural features of the earth's surface. 2. : the geographic features of an area. 3. : a treatise on geography. 4. a: a delineation or systematic arrangement of constituent elements: configuration.
Cultural geography is a sub-field within human geography. Cultural geography is the study of cultural products and norms and their variations across and relations to spaces and places. The areas of study of cultural geography are very broad. Among many applicable topics within the field of study are: 1  Globalization has been theorised as an explanation for cultural convergence. 2  Westernization or other similar processes such as modernization, americanization, islamization and others.
Geographical Environment Definition: This environment type relates to where in the world (location) a character is. The geography might vary from desert in Pakistan to city in Israel depending on the novel. Weather/climate is also a factor in this category. Moral Environment Definition: This environment type relates to basic morality…which is defined as a set of codes or behaviors that define personal/cultural values and ethics. Sometimes this relates to religious mores or rules (Golden Rule, Five Pillars of Islam, 10 Commandments, etc.).
Environmental Determinism. A nineteenth-and early twentieth-century approach to the study of geography that argued that the general laws sought by human geographers could be found in the physical sciences. Geography was therefore the study of how the physical environment caused human activities. 
Lesson Summary. Geography is the study of the earth and the people in it. Culture is made up of the traditions and beliefs of a people, so cultural geography is how the earth interacts with the traditions of people. Humans don't exist in a vacuum. We live with other humans and we live in a specific environment. In this lesson, we'll examine human & cultural geography, including what it is and what types of topics are studied in the field.