Intrinsic muscles. Definition. noun. A group of muscles located within or situated deeper in a structure, in contrast to extrinsic muscles located rather superficially. Supplement. Based on the above definition, the intrinsic muscles refer to the muscles closest to the axial and appendicular skeleton
extrinsic muscles. Definitions: 1. muscles that arise outside of, but act on, the structure under consideration. For example, those muscles operating the hand but having fleshy bellies located in the forearm. The definition information for extrinsic muscles is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here
The extrinsic muscles of the shoulder originate from the trunk, and attach to the bones of the shoulder – the clavicle, scapula or humerus. They are located in the back, and are also known as the superficial back muscles. The muscles are organised into two layers – a superficial layer and a deep layer. 
Answers. Best Answer: Intrinsic-The intrinsic muscle groups are the thenar and hypothenar muscles (thenar referring to the thumb, hypothenar to the small finger), the interosseus muscles (between the metacarpal bones, four dorsally and three volarly) and the lumbrical muscles. 
Extrinsic muscles. Definition. noun. A group of muscles lying superficially on a structure, in contrast to intrinsic muscles, which are located deeply. Supplement. For instance, the extrinsic muscles of the tongue include genioglossus muscle, hyoglossus muscle, styloglossus muscle, and palatoglossus muscle. Since they are extrinsic muscles, they are located on the surface of the tongue, and attach the tongue to other structures. 
extrinsic muscle (em). Etymology: L, extrinsecus, on the outside. 1 a muscle that is outside the organ it controls, as the extraocular muscles that control eye movements. 2 a muscle that links a limb to the trunk of the body. intrinsic muscle one whose origin and insertion are both in the same part or organ, as those entirely within the eye. multipennate muscle a muscle in which the fiber bundles converge to several tendons. palatine m's the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles that act upon the soft palate.
extrinsic muscle one that originates in another part than that of its insertion, as those originating outside the eye, which move the eyeball. fixation m's (fixator m's) accessory muscles that serve to steady a part. gluteal m's three muscles, the greatest, middle, and least, that extend, abduct, and rotate the thigh. intrinsic muscle one whose origin and insertion are both in the same part or organ, as those entirely within the eye. multipennate muscle a muscle in which the fiber bundles converge to several tendons. palatine m's the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles that act upon the soft palate.