1. Obtain a healthy tomato plant. Most varieties can be grown in pots, but larger tomatoes will need larger containers. Tomato plants are also significantly easier to grow by transplant, rather than by seed. Fill the rest of the pot with soil as your plant continues to grow. Trim the leaves from the stem before adding more of the planting medium, packing it around the stem as before. By filling the pot in with soil as the tomato plant grows, you help the plant build its root mass.
2. Use a large pot with drainage holes. Most tomato plants require a 15-gallon (60-liter), 18-inch (46-centimeter) pot in order to have adequate room to develop. Some small varieties may fit inside a 12-inch (30.5-centimeter) pot, but the roots will be restricted and your yield may not be very impressive. Fill the rest of the pot with soil as your plant continues to grow. Trim the leaves from the stem before adding more of the planting medium, packing it around the stem as before. By filling the pot in with soil as the tomato plant grows, you help the plant build its root mass.
Tomatoes are the Holy Grail for many gardeners. Growing tomatoes in containers can be hugely satisfying or a flat out disaster. Sometimes there is nothing you can do to prevent tomato fail-bad weather, late blight or critter problems. However there are some things that you can do to improve your chances for tomato success. Another trick with tomatoes is to, water them in the morning (plants take up and use water more efficiently in the morning). Also, water the soil, not the plants as wet leaves can encourage blight and fungus. Self watering containers and grow boxes work really well for tomatoes.
A good container should be large enough for adequate soil and roots. Most successful container gardeners choose larger containers (5 gallons or more), small to mid-size containers (1-3 gallons), or hanging baskets. A common mistake is to select a pot that is too small for the tomato variety. Tomatoes have extensive root systems. When they get root-bound, they produce fewer fruit. Best tomato varieties for small containers ... Tomato planting in pots ... Review: Self-watering tomato planter: Tomato Success Kit ... Tomato bags are sturdy, grow healthy tomatoes ... Tomato fertilizer to use for container
Can't help you with the Jalapenos but I've been growing a cherry type tomato for 10 years now....Tumbler Tomato is the one you want to use. Two plants into a 14 inch hanging basket filled with a good compost. Don't use a pot 'cos the plants trail over the edge, so you need to get it off the ground. 
1 Use Large Containers. 2  Keep in mind that the more root space the plant has, the better the roots will grow. 3  This will allow the top part of the plant to grow large. 4  Tomatoes can grow to over 6-8 feet tall and 2 feet across, a half whiskey barrel sized pot is just enough to accommodate the roots for that size plant. 1 This will allow the top part of the plant to grow large. 2
Find a Large Pot. Even small tomato varieties have substantial root mass. The minimum pot size for a patio tomato should be 14 inches in diameter, with a capacity of at least 5 gallons. For best results go with a 17- to 20-inch pot that holds 15 to 20 gallons. And try to avoid black; it may cause the soil to overheat. 
IMO, the minimum size is 5 gallons in a self watering container (ie, two of the 5 gallon containers from HD/Lowes) or even wallboard compound containers, which are about 4 gallons. I would grow any size tomato in either of these, but they will be smaller in these containers than in larger ones. 
15-Gallon Container. The 15-gallon containers will hold a larger variety of vegetables, perfect for growing salad or salsa vegetable mini-gardens. This larger size container has a diameter of close to 18 inches. For any plant grown in the 5-gallon container size, the 15-gallon size will hold two to three plants more. 
Unless you are growing something like Micro-Tom (smallest tomato there is), the minimum size for a container should hold 3 gallons of potting mix/compost. However, if you can manage a 5-gallon container, your tomato plants will thank you by providing more fruit. Now for the indeterminate cherry tomato plants. While I certainly have grown indeterminate cherry tomatoes in a 5-gallon container, they grow much better in a 10-gallon. You need to fertilize more often in containers for two reasons. First, what fertilizer you do use gets washed out from the extra waterings that container plants need. Second, your cherry tomato plant's roots only have so much room to grow, and sooner or later, they will run out of space.