ISA stands for Individual Savings Account and everyone over 16 in the UK can save in one. The great thing about them is the interest you earn is tax free. Each person has an annual cash ISA allowance (in the 2015/16 tax year is £15,240). If you don't use it, you lose it. 
Fixed-rate cash ISAs. Once you've maxed your regular savings account, move any money you don't need access to into an ISA. A cash ISA is just a savings account where the interest isn't taxed (so you keep all of it). Anyone over the age of 16 in the UK can put up to 15,240 in an ISA each tax year (April 6 - April 5) and once in, it stays tax-free year after year. In a world of rock-bottom interest rates, you need to make sure you put your money into the right type of savings account in the right order-whether that's an ISA, bank account or a regular saver. We show you how it works.
We help you to compare the best ISA rates in the UK for cash and investment ISAs with our complete ISA savings comparison table. Find the best ISA account so you can maximise your tax free return. Investment ISAs are tax-efficient wrappers for long term investments. 
They are called Individual Savings Accounts or ISAs. ISAs are a place where you can put a range of savings and investments. However, you don't pay any tax on the interest or income you earn. There are two types of ISA: 1  a cash ISA. 2  an investment ISA. 3  Investment ISAs are also known as stocks and shares
Cash ISAs are simply savings accounts where you pay no tax on interest earned. Meanwhile, premium bonds are simply a savings account you can put money into (and take it out when you want), where the interest paid is decided by a monthly prize draw. You can win between 25 and 1 million, tax free. The gain is simple. In a cash ISA, you keep the whole amount-that 100 in interest goes straight into your savings pot without even thinking about stopping for the taxman. This is unlike a normal savings account where, if you earn 100, you'll only receive 80 after basic-rate tax.
A Cash ISA (Individual Savings Account) is special type of savings account where you don’t pay tax on the interest you earn. ISAs were introduced by the government in 1999 to encourage people to save. For the tax year 2015-16, the limit is £15,240. You can find everything you need to know about ISAs with our dedicated hub page. A Stocks and Shares ISA (Individual Savings Account) allows you to invest money in the stock market and avoid paying capital gains tax on profits you make from selling your shares.
You can switch the money you have in a cash ISA into an investment ISA but you can’t put money from an investment ISA into a cash ISA. So if you're thinking of switching to an investment ISA, remember you won’t be able to put it back into a cash ISA if your investment does not do as well as you hoped. ISAs are a place where you can put a range of savings and investments. However, you don't pay any tax on the interest or income you earn. There are two types of ISA: 1  a cash ISA. 2  an investment ISA.
An ISA (Individual Savings Account) is a tax-efficient way to save or invest. If you're starting to think about saving or investing, ISAs could be a good place to begin. Usually, when you have a savings account, you pay income tax on whatever interest you earn. But the interest on a cash ISA isn't taxed, so all the interest you earn, you keep. Stocks & Shares ISAs also have tax benefits which we've explained in more detail in the tab below. Junior ISAs are tax efficient savings accounts designed to help you save or invest for your child's future. They encourage both parents and children to save, and the money is not available to the child until their 18th birthday.
You can find out more about the current ISA allowance here. You can save up to £15,240 in a cash ISA in the current tax year and you can choose from a range of different accounts, including easy access ISAs and fixed-rate ISAs. Taxpayers should almost always put money in an ISA, ahead of a standard savings account.
Keep your money from the taxman by saving in an ISA. You can invest up to £15,000 in a cash ISA, a stocks and shares ISA, or a combination of the two. For the tax year 2015-16, the limit is £15,240. You can find everything you need to know about ISAs with our dedicated hub page. A Stocks and Shares ISA (Individual Savings Account) allows you to invest money in the stock market and avoid paying capital gains tax on profits you make from selling your shares.