Duchess of Cornwall, wife of Charles, Prince of Wales and heir to the British throne Camilla Parker Bowles was born Camilla Shand on July 17, 1947, in London, England. She grew up on a large country estate in Plumpton, Sussex, with her parents, Bruce and Rosalind Shand, and her two younger siblings. 
Diana, Princess of Wales holds Prince Harry as she and Prince Charles, Prince of Wales leave the Lindo Wing at St. Mary's Hospital in Paddington. Harry is the second child of the Prince Charles and the late Princess Diana. He was born on Sept. 15, 1984. 
On February 24, 1981 the engagement of Charles, Prince of Wales and Lady Diana Spencer was announced at Buckingham Palace. On July 29, 1981 Charles married Princess Diana. The fairy-tale wedding took place at St. Paul's Cathedral. Eleven months later on June 21, 1982 Prince William Windsor was born. Two years later their second son Prince Harry Windsor was born September 15, 1984. Diana said that during the months before was his birth, she and Charles were closer then they ever had been before, but after the birth of Harry the marriage went badly wrong.
Charles was born at Buckingham Palace on 14 November 1948, at 9.14 pm (GMT), the first child of Princess Elizabeth, Duchess of Edinburgh, and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, and first grandchild of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth. Charles was born at Buckingham Palace as the first grandchild of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth. He was educated at Cheam and Gordonstoun Schools, which his father, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, had attended as a child, as well as the Timbertop campus of Geelong Grammar School in Victoria, Australia.
On June 21 1982 her first son was born-Prince William Arthur Phillip Louis Windsor. Two years later, on September 15 1984, Diana's second and youngest son was born-Prince Henry Charles Albert David Windsor. Later on she said that the time she was expecting Harry was the best time she and Charles ever had they were getting along so well. On August 26 1996, the Fairy-Tale marriage was over.
Royal Baby Photos: You Know You Want Them. The eldest child of Queen Elizabeth II, Charles is the heir to the British throne. He was born to Elizabeth and Prince Philip in 1948, a year after their marriage and four years before Elizabeth became queen. Charles was made Prince of Wales in 1958 and served as a pilot and commander in the Royal Navy from 1971-76. In 1981 he married Lady Diana Spencer in one of the century's grandest royal weddings. His first grandchild, the Prince of Cambridge, was born on 22 July 2013 to Prince William and his wife the Duchess of Cambridge. The child is third in line to the throne after Charles and William...
Prince Charles was born Charles Philip Arthur George on November 14, 1948, in London, England. The son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Charles, prince of Wales, ascended the royal hierarchy at an early age. His mother became queen when he was only three after the death of his grandfather King George VI. Charles and Diana had two children together. Their first son, Prince William Arthur Philip Louis, was born on June 21, 1982, and their second son, Prince Henry Harry Charles Albert David, was born on September 15, 1984.
More information about: Prince Charles. His Royal Highness, The Prince of Wales was born at Buckingham palace 14 November, 1948, the first child of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. His mother ascended to the throne on 6 February 1952, which made young Charles heir apparent at three years old. Born in 1948, Prince Charles became heir to the throne in 1952. His first marriage to Princess Diana produced two sons, Prince William and Prince Harry. The Prince's Charities were set up under his patronage covering a range of areas including education, young people and the environment.
Charles now is married to his long time love, Camilla Parker-Bowles. Prince Charles Philip Arthur George Mountbatten was born on November 14, 1948, almost a year after his parents' marriage. His mother is Princess Elizabeth, who later became Queen Elizabeth II and his father is Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. Two years later their second son Prince Harry Windsor was born September 15, 1984. Diana said that during the months before was his birth, she and Charles were closer then they ever had been before, but after the birth of Harry the marriage went badly wrong.