Place eggs in cold water. Bring to boil, remove from heat. Cover pan and let stand for 15 minutes. Pour hot water off eggs. Bounce eggs gently in pan to crack shells. Run cold water over eggs in pan for few minutes. Pour most of water out, then cover with ice cubes and add water. Let stand for 15 minutes. Pour out cold water, then easily peel eggs
This is how to peel a completely boiled egg in a glass of water. It takes less than 3 seconds of shaking in about a half inch of water and your egg should be de-peeled just like that... To use this video in a commercial player or in broadcasts, please email licensing@rumble.com for more info. 
A. It’s not only how you crack the shells but also how you cook the eggs that determines how easily they will peel. For shells that slip right off, place the eggs in a pot filled with enough water to cover them by one inch, recommends Howard Helmer, national representative of the American Egg Board, in New York City. 
Boil the eggs. The method you use to boil your eggs can have a significant impact on how easily you'll be able to peel them. Place your eggs in a saucepan and cover with cold water. There should be about two inches of water over the top of the eggs. Add a teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda to the water, then bring the pan to a gentle simmer and cook for approximately 12 minutes. 1 Start the peeling process from an end of the egg, not the side. 2  Put salt in the water before boiling. 3  The eggs will be easier to peel as the salt stops the egg from leaking out if the egg cracks while boiling and adds to the flavor too. 4  Don't over-boil the egg.
Peel the egg. Starting at the wide end with the air pocket, begin peeling the egg, using the side of your thumb. You should remove both the shell and the white, filmy membrane, to reveal the smooth, shiny egg white underneath. If the boiled egg has adequately cooked and cooled, the shell should come away easily. 1 Start the peeling process from an end of the egg, not the side. 2  Put salt in the water before boiling. 3  The eggs will be easier to peel as the salt stops the egg from leaking out if the egg cracks while boiling and adds to the flavor too. 4  Don't over-boil the egg.
1 Place the pan over high heat until it reaches a boil. 2  Turn off heat, cover and let it sit for 13 minutes. 3  After exactly 13 minutes, remove the eggs from the pan and place them in an ice-water bath and let them cool for five minutes. 4  Carefully crack the eggs shells (making sure the majority of the shell is cracked). 1 After exactly 13 minutes, remove the eggs from the pan and place them in an ice-water bath and let them cool for five minutes. 2  Carefully crack the eggs shells (making sure the majority of the shell is cracked). 3  Gently begin removing the shells.
Adding vinegar or baking soda to the water when boiling the eggs may make them even easier to peel. Another simple method of peeling hard boiled eggs is to use a spoon. Alternatively, you can also try this one-handed rolling technique that promises to help you peel an egg in just three seconds. Oh, how we love egg-peeling hacks.
To peel a boiled egg, tap the egg all over to crack the shell in small pieces. (Credit: Shutterstock). Then, under running water, peel away skin and shell from the egg white. Dry the egg with absorbent paper. If you’re peeling an egg with a soft or runny yolk, be sure to handle the egg with extra care.
If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). 3. Strain out the water from the pan and run cold water over the eggs to cool them quickly and stop them from cooking further. Or, if you are cooking a large batch of eggs, remove them with a slotted spoon to a large bowl of ice water. I find it easiest to peel the eggs under a bit of running water.