The Alien and Sedition Acts were never appealed to the Supreme Court, whose right of judicial review was not established until Marbury v. Madison in 1803. Subsequent mentions in Supreme Court opinions beginning in the mid-20th century have assumed that the Sedition Act would today be found unconstitutional. The Alien Friends Act allowed the president to imprison or deport aliens considered dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States at any time, while the Alien Enemies Act authorized the president to do the same to any male citizen of a hostile nation, above the age of 14, during times of war.
Text of the Sedition Act. The Alien and Sedition Acts were four bills that were passed by the Federalists in the 5th United States Congress and signed into law by President John Adams in 1798, the result of the French Revolution and during an undeclared naval war with France, later known as the Quasi-War. The Alien Friends Act allowed the president to imprison or deport aliens considered dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States at any time, while the Alien Enemies Act authorized the president to do the same to any male citizen of a hostile nation, above the age of 14, during times of war.
Alien & Sedition Acts   The Sedition Act effectively made it a crime for any person to criticize the President, the Congress or the Government of the United States. The Al … ien Act empowered President Adams to arrest, detain, and deport any non-citizen he found to be a danger to the security of the nation. 
The acts were denounced by Democratic-Republicans and ultimately helped them to victory in the 1800 election, when Thomas Jefferson defeated the incumbent President Adams. The Sedition Act and the Alien Friends Act were allowed to expire in 1800 and 1801, respectively. The Alien Friends Act allowed the president to imprison or deport aliens considered dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States at any time, while the Alien Enemies Act authorized the president to do the same to any male citizen of a hostile nation, above the age of 14, during times of war.
The Federalist majority in Congress passed the Sedition Act and President Adams signed it into law on July 14, 1798. It was set to expire on March 3, 1801, the last day of the first and--as it turned out--only presidential term of John Adams. But the country did not go to war, and the law was never used. The Alien Friends Act authorized the president to deport any non-citizen suspected of plotting against the government during either wartime or peacetime. This law could have resulted in the mass expulsion of new immigrants.
No. It describes the United States in 1798 after the passage of the Alien and Sedition Acts. The strong steps that Adams took in response to the French foreign threat also included severe repression of domestic protest. A series of laws known collectively as the Alien and Sedition Acts were passed by the Federalist Congress in 1798 and signed into law by President Adams. These laws included new powers to deport foreigners as well as making it harder for new immigrants to vote. The Sedition Act clearly violated individual protections under the first amendment of the Constitution; however, the practice of  judicial review , whereby the Supreme Court considers the constitutionality of laws was not yet well developed. Furthermore, the justices were all strong Federalists.
Abstract. The Alien Registration Act was passed by Congress in 1940. The Act made it illegal for any resident or citizen of the United States of America to teach or advocate the violent overthrow of the U.S. government. The Alien Registration Act of 1940. The first ten amendments to the Constitution of the United States of America are commonly referred to as The Bill of Rights. These amendments were first applied to the Constitution in 1791 by founding father, Thomas Jefferson.