I used to love staying in the KOA cabins, but it seems like the price for a cabin now is too much, and so we have opted to stay at the nicer hotels, for just a few dollars more. It’s too bad, that KOA had to raise their prices on their cabins, I mean you still have to pack sheets, towels, etc. Thanks, KOA. I have stayed at more than a dozen KOA cabins in the last year and ALL of them permitted dogs. As a matter of fact, many of the sites had dedicated dog play areas (the best one was in Marion, AR – it was immaculate). The basic cabins at the Petoskey, MI campground do allow pets.
Well, we have the perfect solution for you: a stay in a KOA Cabin. Cabins allow you to enjoy everything that a campground offers, like fresh air, sunshine and crackling campfires. At the same time, you can have the convenience (and warmth) of sleeping indoors. Thanks, KOA. I have stayed at more than a dozen KOA cabins in the last year and ALL of them permitted dogs. As a matter of fact, many of the sites had dedicated dog play areas (the best one was in Marion, AR – it was immaculate). The basic cabins at the Petoskey, MI campground do allow pets.
Camping Rates for Copake KOA. Our rates vary by season, holidays and day of the week. Having a value card saves you ten percent off your nightly rate and only costs $27.00 per year. Rental Deposit: A Cash Security/cleaning deposit is required for the cabin and RV Rentals: $50.00 for Cabins, $100.00 for Lodges (now called Deluxe Cabins by KOA). Storage Fees: We offer RV and boat storage in our storage yard starting at $75.00 per month depending on size of unit. Yearly rates are discounted.
Rates listed below are for 2 adults. Extra adults are $9.00 per night, children from 5-17 are $5.00 per night, children under 5 are FREE. Additional Charges-Special Event Pricing-Group Rates can be reviewed below. Check in time for sites/cabins is after 3 pm. Check out time is by 11 am for cabins and by noon for sites. KOA Value Kard Reward (VKR) memberships can be purchased at the time of reservation or at wWW.KOA.com. The card costs $27.00 for a one year card. The maximum VKR cash savings for a stay in which a new VKR membership is purchased at time of registration is $27.00.
Cathy and I vacation in our 28' travel trailer with the trike or a bike in the back of the pickup truck. We generally stay at a KOA with a full hookup. The cost runs anywhere from $30-$50 per night. KOA also offers rough camping (elec only), generally around $20 per night. We like KOA because the quality of the campground is less haphazard than other options, but it generally costs a bit more than the state park or other private campgrounds. I hope this helps! 
Yellowstone Park KOA Rates 2015. Our rates vary throughout the season. RV Sites with hookups range from $32 to $74. No hookup/tent sites range from $22 to $41. Cabins and Deluxe Cottages range from $66 to $179. All rates are based on 2 people. Extra Adults and Children 5-17 years are $5 and Children under age 5 are free. We allow a 10% discount for the KOA Value Kard and we are subject to a Montana Accommodations Tax of 7%. 
10% Discount on Daily Registration Fees Good at all KOA Kampgrounds.* At the closest KOA to me ... just for a comparison a one-night tent stay would be $24.39 with the membership discount it would be $21.95.My first thought is that there are a lot of other cheaper campground alternatives ... I don't see where the KOA membership is worth the cost. The savings just isn't enough to make it worthwhile unless you use their campgrounds all the time. In our case we don't go out of our way for a KOA unless one just happens to be handy. We prefer state and county campgrounds whenever possible.
how much does it cost to stay a month at extende stay hotels.... 1. 0. Rates depend on location and length of stay. To better answer your question can you tell me: - What city are you interested in. - Do you need to be near a specific Government facility or a specific area. -When is your approximate check-in date. how much does it cost to stay a month at extende stay hotels.... 0. 0. You can receive $200 off a 30 night stay by clicking on the link below:. Become a Fan of CouponCabin on Facebook. H