There are a few factors that determine the length of time it takes for a tomato to grow, and the breed of the tomato is the first and most important of these. Some breeds take about 45 days to produce their first tomato, and some can take up to 100 days. Tomatoes can grow to 1 1/2 to 3 pounds in weight. These plants have an average production time of about 80 to 85 days, and include the Beefsteak, Shuntukski Velikan and Neves Azorean Red.
Tomatoes with the shortest maturity time do best in areas with short growing seasons and cool summers. Harvest time for Sub Arctic Plenty, a determinate variety, is roughly 45 days from the transplanting date, and each tomato weighs about 4 ounces. Early Girl and Early Cascade are ready to pick in about 55 days.
Mature Green Tomatoes. After the period of slow growth, the tomato begins to grow more rapidly for the next three to six weeks, when it will reach its mature size. At this stage, the tomato is still green with pale green or white undersides, but can be used for fried green tomatoes or to make green tomato pickl
Tomatoes can be eaten raw, or in sandwiches, or salads, or cooked up in recipes and sauces. Tomatoes take a considerable amount of time to grow so you must have long continued perseverance. Seriously, it takes around 59 to 85 days to produce a tomato crop. Growing tomatoes is not as diffucult as you would think. All you really need to grow tomatoes is the seeds, soil, water and the sun. It takes at least eight hours of sunlight per day to grow tomatoes. 
It is large enough that one slice can cover a whole sandwich. Starting the process of growing tomatoes are tomato seeds. It is best to plant your tomatoes indoors to start with, you can put them in small containers. The best time to start planting is eight to ten weeks before the last frost date in your area. The seeds should be planted about 1/8 of af an inch into the soil, use seed starting soil to plant your seeds. The average maturation age for the tomatoes is between 55 days to 85 days. The maximum will of course be for the largest tomato which is the beefsteak. Pick the tomatoes while they are green or orange. Be sure to rinse them off throughly before eating them.
The More tomatoes a plant has, the longer fruit takes to mature. Generally, once a Healthy tomato plant produces a flower and the flower dries up and falls off, the tomato can take anywhere from 20-35 days, depending on if it is a Grape tomato, Cherry tomato, Beefsteak etcetera. Hope i helped! :D. Source(s): 
- Back to Top-Copyright 1998 - 2015 -- All rights reserved -- the Victory Seed Company. Growing Tomatoes from Seed: It really is not difficult to grow tomatoes from seed but does take a little bit of planning. Start the seeds indoors 6 to 8 weeks prior to the last frost date in your area (refer to the Frost Pages). Plant about 1/4 inch deep, in flats or small pots using sterile seed starting material. 
Small Varieties. Smaller tomatoes such as cherry or grape grow on vigorous plants and usually produce high yields. Ready in 65 to 70 days, the small fruit measuring 1 to 1 1/2 inches is marketed as Super Sweet 100, Yellow Pear and Large Red Cherry. Harvest time for Sub Arctic Plenty, a determinate variety, is roughly 45 days from the transplanting date, and each tomato weighs about 4 ounces. Early Girl and Early Cascade are ready to pick in about 55 days.
Extended and Super-Sized Tomatoes. Extra-large tomato varieties were bred for their fruit size. Tomatoes can grow to 1 1/2 to 3 pounds in weight. These plants have an average production time of about 80 to 85 days, and include the Beefsteak, Shuntukski Velikan and Neves Azorean Red.