Lunch tends to be the largest meal of the day in Barcelona, but you can still find budget-friendly options. 1  Super budget travelers can make a super cheap lunch of bread, cheese, and fruit from any grocery store for a few Euros. 2  Pans & Company is a chain “fast-food” restaurant that offers fresh sandwiches and salads. Barcelona Food Prices. Barcelona has food options for just about any budget but, as always, you’ll want to avoid the tourist areas as they’re filled with overpriced and low quality restaurants. Do a bit of research online before you head out to ensure you get a quality meal at a good price.
Food is also expensive in Barcelona. Depending on how much you'll shop and drink, I would budget E150 per person, per day, but allow for much more. Money can disappear quickly if you stop for ice cream, wines, coffees several times per day. And the shopping will definitely use up your budget. My partner and I are travelling to Spain (Malaga, Madrid and Barcelona), London and Paris on Christmas day for 4 weeks ... How much spending money should is budget for?
On the other hand, there are notorious examples of wealthy people spending grotesque amounts of money on a regular basis. Back in 2008, one woman confessed while getting divorced from her rich CEO husband that she spends an average of $53,000 a week (or about $7,500 a day, give or take a bottle of expensive wine). Americans are finally starting to open up their wallets again, or at least rich Americans are. According to a Gallup poll released last week, consumer spending increased by 14% last month, “driven entirely by the surge in upper-income spending.”.
1 Madrid & Barcelona Similar to each other. 2  Barcelona will be a bit more expensive in the touristy areas, but a little effort will reward you with lower prices. 3  Prices below are all for Madrid and Barcelona. 4  Rest of Spain Cheaper than Madrid and Barcelona. With regards to the kinds of costs you would have as a tourist in Spain, you can broadly divide Spain into three sections: 1  Bilbao, San Sebastian and other Northern Cities Slightly more expensive than Madrid and Barcelona. 2 
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Americans report spending $151 on food per week on average. One in 10 Americans say they spend $300 or more per week and, at the other extreme, 8% spend less than $50. Gallup has asked a version of this question as far back as 1943, but has not asked it since 1987. In 1943, an average of $15 per week was spent on food. The final 1987 estimate was $106. Young adults' average weekly food spending is $173, more than what older Americans say they spend. Those with incomes of $75,000 or more per year are averaging $180 per week, compared with $144 for those with incomes of $30,000 to $74,999, and $127 for the lowest income group.
Americans spent an average of almost $94 a day last month in stores, restaurants, gas stations and online. That's a lot of walking-around money, and it's higher than the $89 per day spent in July 2013, but lower than the six-year high of $98 per day recorded in May.
Spain Travel Budget: Example Prices. Here are some pointers on how much you should expect to pay for things when in Spain. 1  Accommodation Budget: For a bed in a dorm in a youth hostel, expect to pay between 13€ and 24€ per night, for a double room in a pension, double that. With regards to the kinds of costs you would have as a tourist in Spain, you can broadly divide Spain into three sections: 1  Bilbao, San Sebastian and other Northern Cities Slightly more expensive than Madrid and Barcelona. 2  Madrid & Barcelona Similar to each other.
How much you can expect to spend on an average day for the budget-conscious traveler. Note: These prices are based on what you’ll need to visit the city comfortably — they don’t include things like big nights out at the bar/pub, club entry fees, souvenir/clothing shopping, tours, random purchases, nicer food, etc. Barcelona Food Prices. Barcelona has food options for just about any budget but, as always, you’ll want to avoid the tourist areas as they’re filled with overpriced and low quality restaurants. Do a bit of research online before you head out to ensure you get a quality meal at a good price.
Daily consumer spending has increased among Americans who make $90,000 or more a year, to $190 per day in July from $157 per day in June and $189 in May. But daily spending for the majority of Americans fell slightly to $75 per day from $79 in June, $78 in May and $78 in July 2013. That's a lot of walking-around money, and it's higher than the $89 per day spent in July 2013, but lower than the six-year high of $98 per day recorded in May.