Many people with varicose veins complain of pain, described as an aching or cramping in the legs. Other common symptoms include tiredness, restlessness, burning, throbbing, tingling, or heaviness in the legs. Pain from these veins is usually relieved by elevating the legs or by wearing support hose. Causes of Varicose Veins and Spider Veins. A number of factors predispose a person to varicose veins and spider veins. These include: 1  Heredity. 2  Occupations that involve a lot of standing, such as nurses, hair stylists, teachers, and factory workers. 3  Obesity. 4  Hormonal influences of pregnancy, puberty, and menopause.
Varicose veins are veins that have become enlarged and twisted. The term commonly refers to the veins on the leg, although varicose veins can occur elsewhere. Veins have pairs of leaflet valves to prevent blood from flowing backwards (retrograde flow or venous reflux). Leg muscles pump the veins to return blood to the heart (the skeletal-muscle pump), against the effects of gravity.
Spider and Varicose Veins. Spider veins and varicose veins are common conditions that affect many adults. These abnormally enlarged vessels, which affect women more often than men, appear most often on the legs and become more prevalent with age. Spider veins and varicose veins affect up to 50% of the adult population. 
Telangiectasias /tɛlˌaen.tɛlˌæn.dʒiː.ɛkˈteɪ.zi/ ə also known as spider veins or, angioectasias are small dilated blood vessels near the surface of the skin or mucous, membranes measuring between.0 5 and 1 millimeter in. diameter 
Varicose veins may not cause any problems, or they may cause aching pain, throbbing, and discomfort. In some cases, varicose veins can lead to more serious health problems. These include: 1  Sores or skin ulcers due to chronic (long-term) backing up of blood. 2  These sores or ulcers are painful and hard to heal. 
Varicose veins are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the surface of the skin. These veins usually occur in the legs, but they also can form in other parts of the body. Varicose veins are a common condition. They usually cause few signs and symptoms. Sometimes varicose veins cause mild to moderate pain, blood clots, skin ulcers (sores), or other problems. Varicose (VAR-i-kos) veins are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the surface of the skin. These veins usually occur in the legs, but they also can form in other parts of the body.
Spider veins. Several options are available to remove spider veins — thin red lines or weblike networks of blood vessels that appear on your legs and feet. Spider veins are usually harmless, though they can sometimes cause aching, burning or pain, especially when you've been standing for long periods. 