Born in Geelong, Victoria, Australia on 19 August 1965, Lyons grew up the youngest of three children in the suburb of Herne Hill, and later Leopold. His father was an architect and the choirmaster of the Aberdeen Street Baptist Church, and designed the family's cathedral-like house. Lyons has also written for the Geelong Advertiser newspaper and NW magazine. He was one of the five venture capitalists on the 2005 Australian version of the reality television programme Dragons' Den, which ended after one season after poor ratings.
City of Greater Geelong Council. Flood information for the City of Greater Geelong Council, including local flood guides and a Municipal Flood Emergency Plan. SES has developed Local Flood Guides to explain local flood risks for communities at risk. 
National Relay Service (NRS). If you are deaf or have a hearing or speech impairment you can call through the National Relay Service (NRS): 1  TTY users can phone 13 36 77 then ask for 03 5272 5272. 2  Speak & Listen (speech-to-speech) users can phone 1300 555 727 then ask for 03 5272 5272. For any emergencies to do with Council property or services out of normal business hours, phone the usual number 03 5272 5272 and the call will be diverted to an out-of-hours service to be responded to as soon as possible. In a life threatening situation or time critical emergency always dial 000. General enquiries.
For the Geelong metropolitan area, see Geelong. For the locality containing Geelong's city centre, see Geelong city centre. The City of Greater Geelong is a local government area in the Barwon South West region of Victoria, Australia, located in the western part of the state. It was formed in 1993 from the amalgamation of the Rural City of Bellarine, Shire of Corio, City of Geelong, City of Geelong West, City of Newtown, City of South Barwon, and parts of Shire of Barrabool and Shire of Bannockburn.
Darryn Lyons (born 19 August 1965) is an Australian media personality, entrepreneur and politician, who rose to prominence in Australia and the United Kingdom as a paparazzo. He entered politics in 2013, when he was elected Mayor of Geelong. Lyons has also written for the Geelong Advertiser newspaper and NW magazine. He was one of the five venture capitalists on the 2005 Australian version of the reality television programme Dragons' Den, which ended after one season after poor ratings.
Fax 03 5272 4277. For any emergencies to do with Council property or services out of normal business hours, phone the usual number 03 5272 5272 and the call will be diverted to an out-of-hours service to be responded to as soon as possible. In a life threatening situation or time critical emergency always dial 000. General enquiries.
The council meets in the council chambers at the council headquarters in the Geelong Town Hall Offices, which is also the location of the council's administrative activities. It was formed in 1993 from the amalgamation of the Rural City of Bellarine, Shire of Corio, City of Geelong, City of Geelong West, City of Newtown, City of South Barwon, and parts of Shire of Barrabool and Shire of Bannockburn.
The City is governed and administered by the Greater Geelong City Council; its seat of local government and administrative centre is located at the council headquarters in Geelong, it also has service centres located in Drysdale, Ocean Grove and several other locations within Geelong. It was formed in 1993 from the amalgamation of the Rural City of Bellarine, Shire of Corio, City of Geelong, City of Geelong West, City of Newtown, City of South Barwon, and parts of Shire of Barrabool and Shire of Bannockburn.
The Geelong College is governed by the College Council. The most important function of the Council is the appointment of the Principal, who is responsible for the staff and students, programs and activities of the College. The Principal is guided by the College’s Strategic Plan, policies and initiatives developed with the Council. Hugh is the Chairman of The Geelong College Board, a member of The Geelong College Finance, Risk Management, Planning, Executive and Education Committees. He is a past President of the Senior School Parents’ Association.