dorsal. adj. 1. (Anatomy) anatomy zoology relating to the back or spinal part of the body. Compare ventral 1. 2. (Botany) botany of, relating to, or situated on the side of an organ that is directed away from the axis. Adj. 1. dorsal-belonging to or on or near the back or upper surface of an animal or organ or part; the dorsal fin is the vertical fin on the back of a fish and certain marine mammals.
Quote: Originally Posted by neckpatient. Each of our spinal nerves has two roots the ventral (front) root carries motor impulses from the brain and the dorsal (back) root carries sensory impulses to the brain. 
See also nicking (2). ventral cord syndrome. localized injury to the ventral portion of the spinal cord, characterized by complete paralysis and hypalgesia and hypesthesia up to the level of the lesion, but with relative preservation of dorsal column sensations of touch, position and vibration. ventral. 1. pertaining to the abdomen or to any venter. 2. directed toward or situated on the belly surface; opposite of dorsal. ventral coccygeal myotomy. tail setting operation in horses.
up vote 2 down vote. Dorsum is the Latin word for back. Dorsal, usually used of the anatomy of an animal or human, is the English adjectival form, incidentally more common than the noun dorsum. I've heard it used mostly in conjunction with the word fin, as in the dorsal fin of a fish. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: ventral (Adjective). Related to the abdomen or stomach. ventral (Adjective). On the front side of the human body, or the corresponding surface of an animal, usually the lower surface. 
1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Degenerative: Basically refers to degenerative (aging) changes of the spine. Disk/ osteophyte refers to bone spur and/or disc protrusion, and facet /uncovertebral hypertrophy refers to arthritis of the joints at the back part (facets) and sides (uncovertebral) of the vertebrae. 
ventral. adj. 1. (Anatomy) relating to the front part of the body; towards the belly. Compare dorsal. 2. (Botany) of, relating to, or situated on the upper or inner side of a plant organ, esp a leaf, that is facing the axis. [C18: from Latin ventrālis, from venter abdomen]. 
Medical Definition of ANTERIOR. 1. : relating to or situated near or toward the head or toward the part in headless animals most nearly corresponding to the head. 2. Full Definition of ANTERIOR. 1. a: situated before or toward the front b: situated near or toward the head or part most nearly corresponding to a head. 2. : coming before in time or development. — an·te·ri·or·ly adverb. See anterior defined for English-language learners.