A blended scotch whisky may contain a combination of whiskies from over 40 or 50 different malt and grain distilleries. The normal ratio of malt to grain is 60% grain 40% malt. 
Blended Scotch whiskies are a combination of single malt scotches that are blended together with grain whiskies. It is often the case that the whiskies that go into a blend are produced at different distilleries in Scotland. Blended Scotch whisky accounts for 90% of the Scotch whisky consumed in the world, making it the preferred style of Scotch whisky for most consumers. Blended Scotch is also the preferred whisky to use in Scotch cocktails.
Scotch whisky is divided into five distinct categories: single malt Scotch whisky, single grain Scotch whisky, blended malt Scotch whisky (formerly called vatted malt or pure malt), blended grain Scotch whisky, and blended Scotch whisky. All Scotch whisky must be aged in oak barrels for at least three years. A whisky with an age statement is known as guaranteed-age whisky. The first written mention of Scotch whisky is in the Exchequer Rolls of Scotland, 1495. A friar named John Cor was the distiller at Lindores Abbey in the Kingdom of Fife.
1 Blended scotch whisky: What many consumers think of when they hear the word blend, blended scotches comprise 90% of the scotch category in sales. 2  A blended scotch is a mix of both malt whiskies and grain whiskies, sourced from several different distilleries. Informally, a blend is a mixture—in this case, a mixture of two or more whiskies that are bottled and sold as one whisky. Formally, however, a blended whisky is a product that contains a mix of barrel-aged malt and grain whiskies. There's a common misconception that because a certain whisky is labeled single malt, it must be the product of just a single batch or barrel of whisky. This is incorrect. Most single malts, as you'll see, are a blend, in the sense that they're a mixture of whisk
In its simplest form, a blended whiskey is a mixture of two or more whiskies that are bottled as a single whiskey. Almost every whiskey is a blend and it has different meanings with different styles of whiskey. We associate the term most often with Scotch whisky and that is the topic of this discussion. Blended Scotch whisky accounts for 90% of the Scotch whisky consumed in the world, making it the preferred style of Scotch whisky for most consumers. Blended Scotch is also the preferred whisky to use in Scotch cocktails.
Whiskey that is either a blend of two or more whiskeys, especially a malt whiskey and an unmalted grain whiskey, or a blend of whiskey and neutral spirits. 
A blended whiskey (or blended whisky) is the product of blending different types of whiskeys and sometimes also neutral grain spirits, coloring, and flavorings. It is generally the product of mixing one or more higher-quality straight or single malt whiskies with less expensive spirits and other ingredients. Blended whiskey that contains a minimum of 51% straight whiskey of one particular grain type (i.e., rye, malt, wheat or bourbon whiskey) includes the grain type in its label description – e.g., blended rye whiskey or blended bourbon whiskey.
Whiskey is an alcoholic spirit made from distilled grain or corn that have aged in oak barrels. There are multiple types of whiskey, including bourbon, a straight whiskey made primarily from corn, and blended whiskey, a mixture of straight whiskey and other neutral grain spirits. 
Scotch whisky, often simply called Scotch, is malt whisky or grain whisky made in Scotland. Scotch whisky must be made in a manner specified by law. All Scotch whisky was originally made from malted barley. Commercial distilleries began introducing whisky made from wheat and rye in the late 18th century. A whisky with an age statement is known as guaranteed-age whisky. The first written mention of Scotch whisky is in the Exchequer Rolls of Scotland, 1495. A friar named John Cor was the distiller at Lindores Abbey in the Kingdom of Fife.