Figure 1.1. A pyramidal cell in layer 3 of area 46 of prefrontal cortex in a 5 year old monkey. The cell has a pale rounded nucleus surrounded by a cytoplasm in which mitochondria are intermingled with the Nissl bodies. Pyramidal cells are excitatory neurons and have spiny apical and basal dendrites. However in large neurons such as the Betz cell of motor cortex and the Meynert cells of visual cortex there is a substantial increase in the frequency of lipofuscin granules (Fig. 1.4). Lipofuscin is known as one of the aging “wear and tear” pigments.
Chapter 1 – neuronal cell bodies. Functionally, there are two basic types of neurons in the cerebral cortex, excitatory and inhibitory neurons. The excitatory neurons are the pyramidal and spiny stellate neurons, the dendrites of which are covered by dendritic spines. However in large neurons such as the Betz cell of motor cortex and the Meynert cells of visual cortex there is a substantial increase in the frequency of lipofuscin granules (Fig. 1.4). Lipofuscin is known as one of the aging “wear and tear” pigments.
The dorsal root is sensory (all neurons conduct impulses into the spinal cord) while the ventral root is motor (all neurons conduct impulses out of the spinal cord). The dorsal root has a ganglion that contains the cell bodies of the sensory neurons that pass through the dorsal root. Somatic efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses from the spinal cord to skeletal muscles. These neurons are multipolar neurons, with cell bodies located in the gray matter of the spinal cord. Somatic efferent neurons leave the spinal cord through the ventral root of spinal nerves. Visceral afferent neurons are sensory neurons that conduct impulses initiated in receptors in smooth muscle & cardiac muscle
gray matter-an area of unmyelinated neurons where cell bodies and synapses occur. In the spinal cord the synapses between sensory and motor and interneurons occurs in the gray matter. The cell bodies of the interneurons and motor neurons also are found in the gray matter. white matter-an area of myelinated fiber tracts. Myelination in the CNS differs from that in nerves. A nerve does not contain cell bodies. They are located in the ganglion (sensory) or in the gray matter (motor). tract-a group of fibers inside the CNS. The spinal tracts carry information up or down the spinal cord, to or from the brain.
Cerebral Cortex The cerebral cortex is the outer surface of the cerebral hemispheres. It is the highest level of the brain and has about 20 billion neurons in the human brain which carry out the highest levels of mental functioning. The cerebral cortex is a layer of grey matter up to about 1/2 cm thick. Figure 3-2d shows a cross section of the cerebral hemispheres with the cortex shown as the pink layer on their outer surface. Figure 4-2d shows a highly magnified slice through the cortex. It is stained with a dye that colors (only) the cell bodies of neurons and glia blue. This shows the densely packed neurons form six layers, each with different functions and connections. Figure 3-2d. Cross-section of cerebral hemispheres, just in front of the brain stem. The pink outer layer is the cerebral cortex. The pink areas inside the hemispheres are areas of grey matter called nuclei. The white matter between these nuclei and the cortex contains the axons of neurons connecting the neurons in these different areas
The cerebral cortex is the cerebrum 's (brain) outer layer of neural tissue in humans and other mammals. It is divided into two cortices, along the sagittal plane: the left and right cerebral hemispheres divided by the medial longitudinal fissure. In the human brain more than two-thirds of the cerebral cortex is buried in the sulci. The cerebral cortex is gray matter, consisting mainly of cell bodies (with astrocytes being the most abundant cell type in the cortex as well as the human brain as a whole) and capillaries. It contrasts with the underlying white matter, consisting mainly of the white myelinated sheaths of neuronal axons
Most of the cell bodies of neurons in the cerebral cortex of the monkey show few obvious alterations with age beyond a slight increase in the frequency of lipofuscin granules and this tends to be more apparent in inhibitory neurons (Fig.1.3) than in excitatory ones (Figs. 1.1; Fig. 1.1A; Fig. 1.2). However in large neurons such as the Betz cell of motor cortex and the Meynert cells of visual cortex there is a substantial increase in the frequency of lipofuscin granules (Fig. 1.4). Lipofuscin is known as one of the aging “wear and tear” pigments.