analytical. adjective rational, questioning, testing, detailed, searching, organized, exact, precise, logical, systematic, inquiring, diagnostic, investigative, dissecting, explanatory, discrete, inquisitive, interpretive, studious, interpretative, expository I have an analytical approach to every survey. Adj. 1. analytical-using or skilled in using analysis (i.e., separating a whole--intellectual or substantial--into its elemental parts or basic principles); an analytic experiment; an analytic approach; a keenly analytic man; analytical reasoning; an analytical mind. analytic
analytical study. one in which a phenomenon is described and an attempt made to analyze the effects of variables on the phenomenon. descriptive study. one in which a phenomenon is described but no attempt is made to analyze the effects of variables on the phenomenon. follow-up study. 
Analytical Think. Analytical thinking is a critical component of visual thinking that gives one the ability to solve problems quickly and effectively. It involves a methodical step-by-step approach to thinking that allows you to break down complex problems into single and manageable components. 
If you were to define someone with good analytical skills, how exactly would you define it? Is it someone with good problem solving ability, or reasoning........what do you think? I think analytical skills also include seeing the arguments on both sides of an issue, even if you don't agree with them, and being able to analyze the merits of each argument. I don't think analytical skills are the same thing as intuition, I think that's a different thing altogether.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of analytical is someone who studies and examines the elemental parts of something, or is something related to the study of small parts of a whole. Making a decision by looking at all the factors involved is an example of making an analytical decision. 
an·a·lyt·ic. adj. 1. a. Of or relating to analysis or analytics. b. Expert in or using analysis, especially in thinking: an analytic mind; an analytic approach. See Synonyms at logical. 2. Dividing into elemental parts or basic principles. Adj. 1. analytical-using or skilled in using analysis (i.e., separating a whole--intellectual or substantial--into its elemental parts or basic principles); an analytic experiment; an analytic approach; a keenly analytic man; analytical reasoning; an analytical mind. analytic
Definition of ANALYTIC. 1. : of or relating to analysis or analytics; especially: separating something into component parts or constituent elements. 2. : being a proposition (as “no bachelor is married”) whose truth is evident from the meaning of the words it contains — compare synthetic. Medical Definition of ANALYTIC. 1. : of or relating to analysis; especially: separating something into component parts or constituent elements. 2. : psychoanalytic.