1 Lipids are storage compounds, triglycerides serve as reserve energy of the body. 2  Lipids are important component of cell membranes structure in eukaryotic cells. 3  Lipids regulate membrane permeability. Lipids. Lipids are important constituent of of the diet because they are a source of high energy value. Lipids are also important because of the fat-soluble vitamins, and essential fatty acids found in the fat of the natural food stuffs. Body fat serves as a very good source of energy, it is stored in adipose tissues
Lipids are fats. Their primary purpose in the body is energy storage-a very small mass of lipids can store a very large amount of energy, which is excellent if you don't happen to have a ready energy supply around. In adipose tissue, lipids can also serve as cushioning. Examples of this function are their uses in cellular plasma and organelle membranes. Lipids have the ability to allow two layers of the membrane to develop. As a result, the cell is able to control what kinds of substances form across the walls of the cell.
Functions of Lipids. A lipid is a non-soluble molecular organic compound comprised of hydrogen and carbon. As far as their purpose in the human body goes, lipids are of crucial importance for both energy storage and cell membrane development. Plants and animals alike contain lipids which they depend on for energy. Gram for gram, a lipid contains more than twice the amount of energy found in carbohydrates.
The functions of lipids are: Lipids are a broad group of naturally-occurring molecules which includes fats, waxes, sterols, fat-soluble vitamins (such as vitamins A, D, E and K), monoglycerides, diglycerides, phospholipids, and others. 1  energy storage, mobilization, and utilization. 2  protection of organs. Lipids have six major functions. They store energy, they are a  shock absorber, they are structural components in cell membranes,  they are precursors of hormones, they are … insulation, and they aid  in the absorption of vitamins.
Membrane lipids are a group of compounds (structurally similar to fats and oils) which form the double-layered surface of all cells (lipid bilayer). The three major classes of membrane lipids are phospholipids, glycolipids, and cholesterol. 
The main … functions of lipids are energy storage, as structural components of cell membranes, and as important signaling molecules. Lipids have six major functions. They store energy, they are a  shock absorber, they are structural components in cell membranes,  they are precursors of hormones, they are … insulation, and they aid  in the absorption of vitamins.
Lipid Function in the Body. Lipids, also known as fats, play multiple roles in the body. Fats are broken down in the digestive tract to form individual fatty acids and cholesterol molecules. Fatty acids and cholesterol are key components of the membranes that surround all cells. The main substances found in every cell are a combination of lipids, carbohydrates, nucleic acids and proteins. Each of these substances plays a different role in the body, and all of them must either come from the diet or be manufactured using other chemical
Energy storage and cell membrane formation are the two most prominent functions of lipids in the body, but there are other functions. It is believed that lipids play an important role in cellular signaling, the process by which various biochemical processes are initiated or stopped. Many different types of molecules in the body, such as fats, waxes, and fat-soluble vitamins, fall into the category of lipids.. Energy storage is the most common of the many functions of lipids, though they can also provide cellular structure or act as signaling molecules.