Gum sores, Itching or burning, Pain or discomfort and Red gums. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms gum sores, itching or burning, pain or discomfort and red gums including Teething, Toothbrush irritation, and Dental abscess.
Burning mouth syndrome (BMS) is a chronic, painful condition characterized by burning sensations in the tongue, lips, palate (roof of the mouth), gums, inside of the cheeks and the back of the mouth or throat. A burning sensation or symptom in the mouth can result from, or be a symptom of, a number of oral and systemic conditions. These problems must be ruled out before a diagnosis of burning mouth syndrome can be made.
1 Gums burning sensation and Dental swelling (3 causes). 2  Gums burning sensation and Dental symptoms (3 causes). 3  Gums burning sensation and Dental tingling (3 causes). 4  Gums burning sensation and Gingival burning sensation (3 causes). 1 Gums burning sensation and Dental tingling (3 causes). 2  Gums burning sensation and Gingival burning sensation (3 causes). 3  Gums burning sensation and Gingival lump (3 causes). 4  Gums burning sensation and Gingival numb
Causes of Burning Mouth. The exact cause of the condition is still not clearly understood. A burning sensation or symptom in the mouth can result from, or be a symptom of, a number of oral and systemic conditions. These problems must be ruled out before a diagnosis of burning mouth syndrome can be made.
1 Gums burning sensation AND Swollen gums: Causes of All Symptoms. 2  Gums burning sensation OR Swollen gums: 84 causes. 3  Gums burning sensation: Causes. 4  Gums burning sensation: Introduction. 5  Swollen gums: 83 causes. 6  Swollen gums: Introduction. 7  Gums burning sensation and Swollen gums and Dental burning sensation (2 causes). 1 Gums burning sensation and Swollen gums and Dental lump (2 causes). 2  Gums burning sensation and Swollen gums and Dental numb (2 causes). 3  Gums burning sensation and Swollen gums and Dental pain (2 causes). 4  Gums burning sensation and Swollen gums and Dental redness
1 Gums burning sensation and Dental symptoms (3 causes). 2  Gums burning sensation and Dental tingling (3 causes). 3  Gums burning sensation and Gingival burning sensation (3 causes). 4  Gums burning sensation and Gingival lump (3 causes). 1 Gums burning sensation and Dental tingling (3 causes). 2  Gums burning sensation and Gingival burning sensation (3 causes). 3  Gums burning sensation and Gingival lump (3 causes). 4  Gums burning sensation and Gingival numb
There are 14 conditions associated with gum sores, itching or burning, pain or discomfort and red gums. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms gum sores, itching or burning, pain or discomfort and red gums including Teething, Toothbrush irritation, and Dental abscess.
Symptoms. The main symptom of burning mouth syndrome (BMS) is pain in the mouth that is burning, scalding, or tingling. Or, the pain may be a feeling of numbness. Other symptoms include dry mouth or altered taste in the mouth. BMS is a painful condition. 