(December 2010). A depository institution is a financial institution in the United States (such as a savings bank, commercial bank, savings and loan associations, or credit unions) that is legally allowed to accept monetary deposits from consumers. 
Depository institutions are generally referred to as banks. The term depository institution originates from the fact that a banking-type financial intermediary accepts deposits from individuals and businesses, and makes loans. 
2.2.1.G2 © Take Charge Today – August 2013 – Introduction to Depository Institutions – Slide 16 Funded by a grant from Take Charge America, Inc. to the Norton School of Family and Consumer Sciences Take Charge America Institute at the University of Arizona Mobile Banking What is it? 2.2.1.G2 © Take Charge Today – August 2013 – Introduction to Depository Institutions – Slide 2 Funded by a grant from Take Charge America, Inc. to the Norton School of Family and Consumer Sciences Take Charge America Institute at the University of Arizona What is a Depository Institution?
Depository Institution. An organization, which may be either for-profit or non-profit, that takes money from clients and places it in any of a variety of investment vehicles for the benefit of both the client and the organization. 
2.2.1.G2 © Take Charge Today – August 2013 – Introduction to Depository Institutions – Slide 15 Funded by a grant from Take Charge America, Inc. to the Norton School of Family and Consumer Sciences Take Charge America Institute at the University of Arizona Online Banking What is it? What can you do? 2.2.1.G2 © Take Charge Today – August 2013 – Introduction to Depository Institutions – Slide 2 Funded by a grant from Take Charge America, Inc. to the Norton School of Family and Consumer Sciences Take Charge America Institute at the University of Arizona What is a Depository Institution?
(2 points). Page | 30 2.2.1.A5 © Take Charge Today – August 2013 – Introduction to Depository Institutions Funded by a grant from Take Charge America, Inc. to the Norton School of Family and Consumer Sciences Take Charge America Institute at The University of Arizona 10. What is one example of a special needs payment instrument? 
A feature of depository institutions that consumers should be aware of is insurance. If the institution is insured, it will be posted in view for the customer to see. Depository institutions should be insured to protect consumers against loss. These institutions include commercial banks, savings and loans, and credit unions. The services customers receive may include savings and checking accounts, loans, investments, and financial counseling. Depository institutions are regulated by state and federal agencies.
2.2.1.G2 © Take Charge Today – August 2013 – Introduction to Depository Institutions – Slide 11 Funded by a grant from Take Charge America, Inc. to the Norton School of Family and Consumer Sciences Take Charge America Institute at the University of Arizona Credit What is it? What can you do? 2.2.1.G2 © Take Charge Today – August 2013 – Introduction to Depository Institutions – Slide 2 Funded by a grant from Take Charge America, Inc. to the Norton School of Family and Consumer Sciences Take Charge America Institute at the University of Arizona What is a Depository Institution?
In finance and economics, a financial institution is an institution that provides financial services for its clients or members. One of the most important financial services provided by a financial institution is acting as a financial intermediary. Most financial institutions are regulated by the government.