Whole soy foods contain high levels of healthy protein and fiber. Fiber helps to reduce bad cholesterol. Plus, soy is a much better source of protein for your heart than saturated-fat-rich animal-derived foods.
When you consume a one-half-cup serving of soybeans, you will get 25 percent of the daily value for iron, 20 percent of the daily value for phosphorus and magnesium, 15 percent of the daily value for riboflavin and 10 percent of the daily value for calcium, vitamin B-5, thiamine and folate.
Soy is healthy and can be part of a healthy diet. Not all soy beans or soy products are GMO’s or are grown with pesticides, and people in Asia have been eating soy and fermented soy for thousands of years to no ill effect.
1 Many health “experts” and the media tout unfermented soy products (tofu, soymilk, soy cheese, etc.) as being good for you, but in actuality, the risk of consuming them far outweighs the benefits. 2  Soy has many potent hormones that can wreak havoc with your health.
This includes 5 grams of dietary fiber and only 1 gram of saturated fat. Most of the fat in soybeans is the healthy unsaturated kind, including omega-3 fatty acids in the form of alpha-linolenic acid, which makes up about 7 percent of the fat in soybeans.
Tofu is made from soybeans. Soybeans, which are called edamame when they are eaten green, are one of the few vegetarian sources of complete protein. They contain all of the essential amino acids, so you don't need to combine them with other sources of protein as you would with other types of beans.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Many health “experts” and the media tout unfermented soy products (tofu, soymilk, soy cheese, etc.) as being good for you, but in actuality, the risk of consuming them far outweighs the benefits. 2  Soy has many potent hormones that can wreak havoc with your health.
In the overall picture, we continue to believe that soy foods can provide you with important health benefits, including bone-related benefits. It's important to remember that soybeans provide a good amount of vitamin K—a much-needed nutrient with respect to bone health.