During the years 1786 and 1787, a series of confrontations took place between desperate debtor-farmers and state government authorities in western Massachusetts. In September, an armed force led by Revolutionary War veteran Daniel Shays of Pelham closed the courthouse at Springfield. By January, 1787, the situation had become desperate. Daniel Shays led the main body of a large group of armed insurgents to confiscate arms an ammunition stored in the arsenal
Revolutionary War veteran Daniel Shays led four thousand rebels (called Shaysites) in rising up against perceived economic injustices by Massachusetts, and in a later attempt to capture the United States' national weapons arsenal at the U.S. Armory at Springfield. Shays was a farmhand from Massachusetts when the Revolution broke out; he joined the Continental Army, saw action at the Battles of Lexington and Concord, Bunker Hill and Saratoga, and was eventually wounded in action.
A militia raised as a private army defeated a Shaysite (rebel) attempt to seize the federal Springfield Armory in late January 1787, killing four and wounding 20 men. The main Shaysite force was scattered on February 4, 1787, after a surprise attack on their camp in Petersham, Massachusetts. Shays was a farmhand from Massachusetts when the Revolution broke out; he joined the Continental Army, saw action at the Battles of Lexington and Concord, Bunker Hill and Saratoga, and was eventually wounded in action.
The rebellion started on August 29, 1786. It was precipitated by several factors: financial difficulties brought about by a post-war economic depression, a credit squeeze caused by a lack of hard currency, and fiscally harsh government policies instituted in 1785 to solve the state's debt problems. Shays was a farmhand from Massachusetts when the Revolution broke out; he joined the Continental Army, saw action at the Battles of Lexington and Concord, Bunker Hill and Saratoga, and was eventually wounded in action.
In 1787, poor farmers from western Massachusetts fighting against high taxes followed Daniel Shays in an attempt to seize the arms stockpiled at the Springfield Armory. Learn more about the Armory and its role in Massachusetts history here. Shays' Rebellion. The modern day Northampton courthouse, built in 1884 on the same site as the courthouse where Shays' Rebellion occurred. The crisis of the 1780s was most intense in the rural and relatively newly settled areas of central and western Massachusetts.
Introduction. Shays’ Rebellion is the name given to a series of protests in 1786 and 1787 by American farmers against state and local enforcement of tax collections and judgments for debt. 
Shays rebellion was a rebellion made up of farmers led by Daniel Shays. These farmers wanted many of things including lower taxes, more printed money, more western land, and a better flow of economy. Shay's rebellion showed how under the Articles of Confederation the National Government was unable to aid the State of Massachusetts. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shays%27_Re...
[1]. Shays' mob in possession of a courthouse. Shays' Rebellion (or Shays’s Rebellion — but NOT Shay’s Rebellion) was an uprising in western Massachusetts in 1786-87 led by former American Revolutionary War veteran Daniel Shays. 
A group of protestors, led by Revolutionary War veteran Daniel Shays, began a 6 month rebellion by taking over the Court of Common Pleas in Northampton; the goal was to prevent the trial and imprisonment of debt-ridden citizens. James Bowdoin, the governor of Massachusetts, was clearly in the latter group. Shays' Rebellion. The modern day Northampton courthouse, built in 1884 on the same site as the courthouse where Shays' Rebellion occurred. The crisis of the 1780s was most intense in the rural and relatively newly settled areas of central and western Massachusetts.
Shays‍ '​ Rebellion was an armed uprising in Massachusetts (mostly in and around Springfield) during 1786 and 1787. Shays was a farmhand from Massachusetts when the Revolution broke out; he joined the Continental Army, saw action at the Battles of Lexington and Concord, Bunker Hill and Saratoga, and was eventually wounded in action.