Stop counting laps. Let Garmin do the math with Garmin Swim. It s the swimming watch designed for pool use that tracks your distance, pace, stroke count and more. Strap It On and Dive In  Garmin Swim is ready to go right out of the box just tell it the size of the pool you re swimming in and begin your workout. 
[Updated Feb 16th, 2013]. Today, Garmin announced the Garmin Swim, which is a dedicated swim tracking watch that builds upon the accelerometer based technology that was introduced within the FR910XT to track swimming data in a pool environment. 
Garmin Connect serves as your interactive online logbook. After your workout, download the data wirelessly to your computer. Easily view time, distance, stroke type, pace, cadence, stroke count, calories burned and more for a length, an interval or your entire workout. Garmin Connect also shows your efficiency/swolf score as recorded by your watch. TOTAL TIME 41:18.
Garmin Swim™ Garmin Swim is the pool training swim watch that tracks your distance, pace, stroke count and more. https://buy.garmin.com/en-US/US/into-sports/swimming/garmin-swim-/prod97287.html 010-01004-00 010-01004-00. 149.99 USD. Garmin Ltd. or its subsidiaries http://www.garmin.com. Stay Motivated. Slim and attractive enough to be worn as a daily watch, Garmin Swim serves as a personal reminder of your goals. To help you stay motivated, it displays your weekly accumulated distance under the time of day. Watch features include dual time zones and alarm.
At $150, Garmin's non-GPS swim watch costs much less than some of the company's cross-training watches that are GPS-enabled and also track swimming metrics. The Garmin Swim watch is also highly accurate, recording the correct number of laps I swam even when my push off the wall was less than perfect or when I chose not to do a flip turn.
This Garmin swim tracker won't provide accurate data if you're swimming in a pool that's less than 18 yards (16.5 meters) long, according to Garmin. This is similar to the PoolMate Live, which only tracks laps and strokes in pools measuring 19.7 yards (18 m) or longer. The Garmin Swim watch is also highly accurate, recording the correct number of laps I swam even when my push off the wall was less than perfect or when I chose not to do a flip turn.
It's water resistant to 50m, which should be enough for most public pools. Garmin Swim Features. When you first turn the Garmin Swim on, as with any watch you have set the time, which is a relatively intuitive process. But you will also need to configure further settings when you go for your first swim. First, you will need to tell the Swim device whether you are doing lengths of 25 or 50 metres, or 25 yards. 
For example, the Garmin Forerunner 920XT is a GPS-enabled watch that can track swimming in the pool and in open water, as well as running and cycling, but those extra features will cost you: The Forerunner 920XT sells for about $450 on Amazon. [ Fantasy Fitness Tracker: 8 Absolutely Must-Have Features ]. The Garmin Swim watch is also highly accurate, recording the correct number of laps I swam even when my push off the wall was less than perfect or when I chose not to do a flip turn.
Garmin Swim is the swimming watch designed for pool¹ use that tracks your distance, pace, stroke count and more. Stay Motivated. Slim and attractive enough to be worn as a daily watch, Garmin Swim serves as a personal reminder of your goals. To help you stay motivated, it displays your weekly accumulated distance under the time of day. Watch features include dual time zones and alarm.
After testing more than a dozen waterproof fitness trackers, we recommend the Garmin Swim watch as the best overall wearable device for swimmers. If you're looking for a GPS watch that can track swimming both in the pool and in open water, we recommend the Suunto Ambit3 Sport GPS watch. 