1 The infection can be spread by saliva, and the incubation period for mono is four to eight weeks. 2  Most adults have laboratory evidence (antibodies against the EBV) indicative of a previous infection with EBV and are immune to further infection. 3  The symptoms of mono include: 4  fever, 5  fatigue, 6  sore throat, and. Infectious mononucleosis (mono) facts. 1  Infectious mononucleosis (mono) is a contagious illness caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV).
Mononucleosis, also called mono, is a common illness that can leave you feeling tired and weak for weeks or months. Mono goes away on its own, but lots of rest and good self-care can help you feel better. Mono usually is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) . It is most often seen in teens and young adults. 
Contagious and incubation period. 1  You can pass the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) to others for several weeks or months during and after the time you are first infected with EBV. 2  There is a small risk of spreading EBV through blood products. 3  It takes 4 to 6 weeks for symptoms to develop after you come in contact with EBV. 1 If you know you have mono, you should not donate blood. 2  It takes 4 to 6 weeks for symptoms to develop after you come in contact with EBV. 3  This is called the
Infectious mononucleosis, also called “mono,” is a contagious disease. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the most common cause of infectious mononucleosis, but other viruses can also cause this disease. It is common among teenagers and young adults, especially college students. At least 25% of teenagers and young adults who get infected with EBV will develop infectious mononucleosis. 
About half of those who have mononucleosis have enlargement of the spleen, usually 2 to 3 weeks after they are infected. The incubation period—the time it takes symptoms to appear after a person becomes infected with the virus—can be 4 to 6 weeks. Symptoms of mononucleosis usually last for 1 to 4 weeks, but it might take as long as 2 months before you feel well enough to resume all of your normal activities. 
Incubation Period. When a person becomes infected with the virus that causes mononucleosis, the virus begins to multiply within the body. After four to eight weeks, mono symptoms can begin. The period between becoming infected and the start of symptoms is called the mononucleosis incubation period. 
The incubation period of the virus (the time between when you contract the infection and when you start to have symptoms) is four to six weeks. The signs and symptoms of mono typically last for one to two months. Symptoms may include: 1  fever. Mono is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), EBV is a member of the herpesvirus family and is one of the most common viruses to infect humans around the world (CDC).
For teenagers and young adults, symptoms of fatigue, fever and loss of appetite occur for roughly two to three weeks after the mononucleosis incubation period. In these cases, symptoms force infected individuals to refrain from school or work for a period of time. 
Symptoms and Signs. In most young children, primary EBV infection is asymptomatic. Symptoms of infectious mononucleosis develop most often in older children and adults. The incubation period is about 30 to 50 days. The triad of fever, pharyngitis, and adenopathy is present in most patients. Fatigue can last months but is usually maximal during the first 2 to 3 wk. 
1 The virus can also become active and spread to others from time to time throughout your life. 2  There is a small risk of spreading EBV through blood products. 3  If you know you have mono, you should not donate blood. 4  It takes 4 to 6 weeks for symptoms to develop after you come in contact with EBV. 1 If you know you have mono, you should not donate blood. 2  It takes 4 to 6 weeks for symptoms to develop after you come in contact with EBV. 3  This is called the incubation period.