Bison meat is a low-fat alternative to beef. Photo Credit Nleachproffer/iStock/Getty Images. Next time you're looking for a low-fat meat to have for dinner, try a bison stir-fry, bison cooked in the slow cooker, pasta sauce with ground bison or a bison meatloaf.
A 3-ounce serving of roasted bison meat contains 122 calories, 24.2 grams of protein and 2.1 grams of fat, including just 0.8 gram of saturated fat. This is 48 percent of the daily value for protein, 3 percent of the DV for fat and 4 percent of the DV for saturated fat for those who follow a 2,000-calorie diet. Photo Credit Nleachproffer/iStock/Getty Images. Next time you're looking for a low-fat meat to have for dinner, try a bison stir-fry, bison cooked in the slow cooker, pasta sauce with ground bison or a bison meatloaf.
Many bison are now raised for meat due to the meat's high nutritional value. Photo Credit Fuse/Fuse/Getty Images. Buffalo meat, more commonly referred to as bison meat, can be used in most recipes that call for beef. Bison meat is one of the leanest, most nutritious meats available, and you can use it for burgers, roasts, steaks and stew
In addition, we now carry the largest selection of specialty meats such as venison, elk, wild boar, ostrich and other game meats. The Healthy Buffalo has been distributing bison meat since 1993. We are pleased to offer the finest 100% pure South Dakota buffalo meat. Our supplier is a family owned company that raises, slaughters, and packages its buffalo. The meat is frozen and shipped to us weekly. 
Calories in foods are determined by the amount of protein, carbs and fat they contain. Bison has just over 200 calories in a 4-ounce serving, while 4 ounces of ground turkey accounts for about 175 calories. This is the meat alone. Protein and carbohydrates, along with fat, are macronutrients. Animal meats, such as bison and ground turkey, have a high protein and low carb content. Both of these meats are considered complete proteins because they have all the essential amino acids.
Protein. Bison contains fewer calories and less fat than many other meats, such as beef and chicken, but that does not mean that it is less satisfying or nutritious. The protein content is slightly higher, with 20.23 grams in a serving of bison, compared to a serving of 90 percent lean beef, with 20 grams. Buffalo meat, more commonly referred to as bison meat, can be used in most recipes that call for beef.
That’s based on the leanest cuts, trimmed of all fat. Other bison cuts have 4 to 9 grams of fat and 165 to 190 calories, comparable to some lean beef cuts; ground bison meat can have 15 grams of fat and 240 calories in 3.5 ounces. Whether 100 percent grass-fed or grain-finished, bison meat is leaner than beef, though grain-finishing does increase the fat content somewhat. And like all meat, it’s rich in protein, iron, zinc, vitamin B12 and other nutrients.
Organic Bison (Buffalo) Meat. Bison is a wonderful healthy red meat with all of the flavor and texture of beef. It's rich in protein and high in iron yet is lower in fat, calories and cholesterol than skinless chicken or turkey. In fact, Bison is one of the low fat meats recommended by the USDA as part of a balanced & nutritious die
Buffalo (bison) is a superb alternative to industrially produced meat from domestic livestock. Nutritionally, you get more protein and nutrients with fewer calories and less fat. People are rapidly discovering the deliciously healthy taste of bison / buffalo. Buffalo meat tastes similar to fine beef, with just a slightly sweeter and richer flavor.
Bison meat is also promoted as a good source of omega-3 fats. Grass-fed cuts have more of these heart-healthy fats than conventional beef (the same is true for grass-fed beef), but the amount is minimal compared to salmon and other fatty fish. And grain-finishing causes a rapid decline in omega-3 levels. Whether 100 percent grass-fed or grain-finished, bison meat is leaner than beef, though grain-finishing does increase the fat content somewhat. And like all meat, it’s rich in protein, iron, zinc, vitamin B12 and other nutrients.