The snail is a small to medium sized mollusc that is generally split into three groups which are land snails, sea snails and freshwater snails. Snails that do not have a shell are not snails, but slugs. In order to break down their food, most snails have thousands of microscopic tooth-like structures located on a ribbon-like tongue called a radula. The radula works like a file, ripping the food into small pieces for the hungry snail. Snails are generally herbivores, primarily eating vegetation such as leaves, stems and flowers. Some larger snail species however, are known to be more predatory animals either being omnivores or, in some cases, full-on carnivores. Due to their relatively small size, and slow paced movement, snails are preyed upon by numerous animal species all around the world
Snails are at the bottom of most food chains, and near the outside of most food webs, so a lot of creatures like to eat them. Many types of birds—especially water birds such as geese and gulls—like to eat snails. Some snakes eat snails, and so do some types of mammals such as raccoons, which like a meal of snails from time to time. Some people even like to dine on snails. In fact, in the country of France, some types of snails are considered a delicacy —which means something very special and very good to eat
Snail is a common name that is applied most often to land snails, terrestrial pulmonate gastropod molluscs. Although land snails may be more familiar to people, marine snails constitute the majority of snail species, and have much greater diversity and a greater biomass. Numerous kinds of snail can also be found in fresh water.
Most terrestrial snails could reach several years of age, Roman snails even older than twenty. Only a small part, though, survives until maturity. The eggs of terrestrial snails already are a welcome food to many small animals, including other snails.
Snail-like animals that naturally lack a shell, or have only an internal shell, are mostly called slugs, and land snails that have only a very small shell (that they cannot retract into) are often called semi-slugs. Although land snails may be more familiar to people, marine snails constitute the majority of snail species, and have much greater diversity and a greater biomass. Numerous kinds of snail can also be found in fresh water.
Large snails, such as the Roman snail, can defend themselves against ants and other small insects by producing foamy mucus that stops the ants from reaching the snail. But ants usually come in numbers, so they are able to overpower the snail anyway, even at the expense of the one or other worker ant. The eggs of terrestrial snails already are a welcome food to many small animals, including other snails.
Some birds, such as snail kites and song thrushes, have special adaptations that help them capture and eat snails; other species only eat snails opportunistically. According to a 2000 issue of “Web Ecology,” many birds depend on snails as a source of dietary calcium. 
Enemies of Terrestrial Snails. Animals that eat snails can be found in almost every systematic group. Snails usually are quite defenceless and so are welcome sources of protein to many animals. Even those that usually do not eat snails will do so in times of meagre food supply. The eggs of terrestrial snails already are a welcome food to many small animals, including other snails.
Snails eat by asserting radula against the leaf rasping it and scraping away particles. This can be observed particularly when feeding a snail. Snails are herbivorous which is why most of their diet comprises plants and vegetation. In the wild, snails are very fond of eating leaves, fruits, mushrooms and other types of vegetation. These animals predominantly feed on living plants; however, they can ingest decaying plants as well. These species also feed on flowers, algae and plant bark. 