The physical appearance of an organism with respect to a trait, i.e. yellow (Y) or green (y) seeds in garden peas. The dominant trait is normally represented with a capital letter, and the recessive trait with the same lower case letter. pleiotropic. A single gene determines more than one phenotype for an organism. Both alleles for a trait are the same in an individual. They can be homozygous dominant (YY), or homozygous recessive (yy). hybrid. heterozygous; usually referring to the offspring of two true-breeding (homozygous) individuals differing in the traits of interest.
phenotype is the physical expression of a particular trait in an individual.A phenotype therefore is the outward expression of our internal genetic code. · just now. Report Abuse. phenotype is what physical traits a person has, traits you can see. Genotype is on the inside, the genes the person has that express or cause the phenotype.
A phenotype (from Greek phainein, meaning to show, and typos, meaning type) is the composite of an organism 's observable characteristics or traits, such as its morphology, development, biochemical or physiological properties, phenology, behavior, and products of behavior (such as a bird's nest). Although a phenotype is the ensemble of observable characteristics displayed by an organism, the word phenome is sometimes used to refer to a collection of traits, while the simultaneous study of such a collection is referred to as phenomics.
2 people found this useful. A physical trait can skip a generation because traits carried and  expressed in an organism by genes can be transmitted but not be  observed. For example brown eyes is a phenotype. When referring to alleles which are alternative forms of a gen … e, it is the dominant allele that is represented physically. For example if brown eyes are a dominant trait, then they would be represented physically in the genotypes BB and Bb. Valentin Popov.
The phenotype of an individual organism is either its total physical appearance and constitution or a specific manifestation of a trait, such as size, eye color, or behavior that varies between individuals. · just now. Report Abuse. phenotype is what physical traits a person has, traits you can see. Genotype is on the inside, the genes the person has that express or cause the phenotype.
phenotype The physical appearance of a trait is called a phenotype, not to be confused with a genotype(which is your genetic makeup) The way I remember is phenotype and physi … cal both start with a p, and genotype and genetic both start with a g. For example brown eyes is a phenotype. When referring to alleles which are alternative forms of a gen … e, it is the dominant allele that is represented physically. For example if brown eyes are a dominant trait, then they would be represented physically in the genotypes BB and Bb. Valentin Popov.
Report Abuse. Physical characteristics, I think, would be traits. I don't know many specific terms used in genetics, but I know there are several. You can check this genetics glossary http://www.ornl.gov/sci/techresources/Hu... or the one I have as a source. Source(s): https://www3.nationalgeographic.com/geno... 
Human physical appearance is the outward phenotype or look of human beings. There are infinite variations in human phenotypes, though society reduces the variability to distinct categories. 