This doesn't mean that the name Yara is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. (If you know more meanings of the name and you would like to contribute click here to submit another name meaning). The different meanings of the name Yara are: The meaning of the name “Yara” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Yara and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Yara and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. (If you know more meanings of the name and you would like to contribute click here to submit another name meaning). The different meanings of the name Yara are: The meaning of the name “Yara” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }
Its language of origin is Turkish. The meaning of Yara is strong; spring. The name is of obscure origin; it has been variously interpreted to mean 'strong' or 'spring'. Yara's origin is Brazilian. In Brazilian Tupi mythology, Yara or Iara was the name of a mermaid, siren, or river goddess. Yara is a derivative (Arabic) of the English, Portuguese, and Spanish name Iara. Yara is also a derivative of the English name Yaritza. Yara is not frequently used as a baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. In 2012, out of the family of girl names directly linked to Yara, Yareli was the most regularly used.
Yara /yara/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced YAH-rsh. It is of Brazilian and Arabic origin, and the meaning of Yara is water lady; small butterfly. Brazilian mythology: Iara was a beautiful goddess with green hair and fair skin. Kreatif forms: Yari, Yora, Yorra. Yara is a rare given name for females but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#61713 out of 150436, Top 41%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Yara for girls. Yara has not been listed in the list thus far. (Top 1000 Baby Names Records, 2014)
The name Yara has many different meanings, below I give the ones I know. However, there are probably much more meanings out there. Firstly I'll give a very nice meaning which has a story attached to it. After this story a list follows which gives the other meanings I have accumulated so far. Have fun reading!Ciao, Yara (It is my own name too!). Iara, also spelled Uira or Yara, is the name of a figure from Brazilian mythology based on ancient Tupi and Guarani mythology. The word derives from Old Tupi yiara = yîara + y (iara + îara/water) = lord lady lady of (the lake). water queen
yara is pronounced IAH-ruh and it has the native indian meaning  Goddess/Queen of the Water or the arabic meaning  Spring , this name can be given to a boy or girl. Source(s): namenerds.com.ore from behindthename.com Yara means, how to translate... in a beehive, the honey is places by lines... Yara is a line of honey is Hebrew. In South American legends, Yara is also the name of a kind of siren who lives in a lake and make handsome young men die by drowning...
Iara (or Yara) is also a very popular female name in Brazil. The Iara is similar in nature to several other female figures of folklore from other regions such as La Llorona from Mexico and the Southwestern United States, the Colombian creatures La Patasola and the Tunda and the Deer Woman of North America.