All in all, the process of becoming an HVAC Technician will take years to complete. However, one can enjoy the benefits of easy employment and commanding a high rate of pay when they become a fully licensed HVAC specialist. 1 The other method is through becoming an apprentice of a licensed HVAC Technician. 2  Though not as formal as a training course, this method allows a person to quickly get hold of the basics of HVAC services while also applying them in actual scenarios.
The amount of time it takes to become a qualified HVAC/R technician depends on the education and training path you select. With informal training, the amount of time depends on the ability of the trainee to grasp new tasks and improve his or her skills. There are a number of education routes that can be pursued in order to become a qualified HVAC/R technician. In addition to formal education and training, it is also possible to become an HVAC/R technician through informal training.
The highest wages for HVAC/R technicians are found with employers in the electric power generation, transmission, and distribution industry, where technicians earn on average $34.09 per hour or $70,920 per year according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. There are a number of education routes that can be pursued in order to become a qualified HVAC/R technician. In addition to formal education and training, it is also possible to become an HVAC/R technician through informal training.
How to Become a HVAC Technician in 5 Steps. Research what it takes to become an HVAC technician. Learn about education requirements, job duties, average wages and job outlook to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Heating Ventilation & Air Conditioning degrees can also be found in these popular choices. HVAC technicians install and repair heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment and systems. As part of your training, you'll learn how to interpret blueprints and utilize specialized tools for multiple tasks on varied pieces of equipment.
What you may not be so sure of is how to actually become a qualified technician and how long it will take you to build up the knowledge and experience required to thrive in this field. The great news is that an HVAC career is well within your reach. Of course, the more certifications that are obtained by a technician, the more likely he or she is to be paid a higher salary. In addition to excellent pay, HVAC technicians can also expect many available job opportunities. BLS estimates that jobs for heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration mechanics and installers will grow 21% between 2012 and 2022 – a rate which is significantly faster than average
How To Become a HVAC/R Technician. There are a number of education routes that can be pursued in order to become a qualified HVAC/R technician. In addition to formal education and training, it is also possible to become an HVAC/R technician through informal training.
To become an HVAC technician, you need to complete a degree or certificate program or a formal apprenticeship. The time for completing certification varies, but it can be done in as little as six months. 
The length of time you’ll spend in HVAC technician school depends on the program you enroll in. Programs leading to a certificate in HVAC or HVAC/R can be as short as six months while an associate’s degree can take as long as two years. Working with air conditioning and heating units is no easy task and aspiring HVAC technicians need to obtain the necessary training to be able to do the job correctly. There are actually different avenues to get the training you need to become an HVAC technician.
According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, the HVAC industry really is the place to be. In 2012 hvac tech salary for an HVAC mechanic, installer, or technician was $20.98 per hour, or $43,640 per year. Of course, the more certifications that are obtained by a technician, the more likely he or she is to be paid a higher salary. In addition to excellent pay, HVAC technicians can also expect many available job opportunities. BLS estimates that jobs for heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration mechanics and installers will grow 21% between 2012 and 2022 – a rate which is significantly faster than average