1 The price of a resume can vary depending on the type of job for which you are applying. 2  A resume written for an entry-level position will cost much less than a resume written for an executive position. 3  Most resume services, such as e-Resume, will charge between $100 and $250 for a basic resume to be written or edited.
They will look at a draft of your resume and give you some pointers. They will not draft your resume for you however. Only a professional resume writer will do that... or maybe a good friend! The good thing is that it will not cost too much to have your resume written by a professional because you are still junior.
Other resume writing sites can charge up to $400 for a professionally written resume! Add up the free cover letter, free thank you letter, free electronic and printable formatting and other sites would charge you over $700! Our prices start at just $137 for a stand-alone resume.
The major disadvantage is cost. The average full service, professionally prepared resume will cost $100 – $400. Cost is usually dependent on experience, thereby the entry level professional will pay less than the executive. There are some resume writing services that charge less, even under $50.
Executives: You should be able to afford to have your resume professionally written. At your level of competition, there is definitely no room for mistakes. You will be competing with the best and you need to be better than them. Not hiring a professional resume writer at your level is an inexcusable mistake.
1 A resume written for an entry-level position will cost much less than a resume written for an executive position. 2  Most resume services, such as e-Resume, will charge between $100 and $250 for a basic resume to be written or edited. 3  This same service will prepare a cover letter to accompany your resume for $50.
As a former professional resume writer, I've seen resume costs all over the map, from a low of $25 to upwards of a thousand dollars. That, for a mid-level professional resume. Here's what you need to know--before you short change yourself and your future, or mortgage the house unnecessarily. --David Alan Carter.