Review. Intro. The Opal Creek Wilderness is a low-elevation ancient forest that is home to the largest intact stand of old-growth forest in the western Cascades. Trees in this area can range up to 1,000 years old and reach up to 250 feet tall. The Opal Creek Wilderness is truly stunning. The ancient forests and pristine pools make this a true Northwest wonder. Enjoy a 7-mile roundtrip hike to Opal Pool, and have an unforgettable swim.
Opal Creek, in the Willamette National Forest, is more than 100 miles from Portland. It’s a watershed that was once center stage for one of our country’s most publicized old-growth timber battles of the past century. The Opal Creek Ancient Forest Education Center offers a varied curriculum suitable for adults and children about the values and the science of the land and water found in an old growth forest. Visitor Zoe Edelen Hare has returned each summer ever since she was a college student in the early 90s.
The Opal Creek Wilderness and Scenic Recreation Areas are covered by the US Forest Service’s Mt. Hood and Willamette National Forest map, which also includes the Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness and the Bull of the Woods Wilderness. 
Unlimited access to National Geographic TOPO! & Trails Illustrated Maps. Opal Creek Trail is a 7 mile out and back trail with a loop located near Gates, Oregon that offers scenic views and is rated as moderate because the the trail is level on an old gravel logging road that's only used by residents of Jawbone Flats. 
Check out Roadtrippers.com/Oregon. Opal Creek Trail is a moderate to difficult 3 mile hike at an elevation of 1,900 feet. This trail travels through old-growth forest with western hemlock, Douglas fir and second growth. There are numerous falls and pools that are deep and translucent. The clear water of Opal pool is a highlight. 
Cabins of former mining community of Jawbone Flats, now owned by Opal Creek Ancient Forest Center. The Opal Creek Wilderness is a wilderness area located in the Willamette National Forest in the U.S. state of Oregon, on the border of the Mount Hood National Forest. It has the largest uncut watershed in Oregon. Opal Creek and nearby Opal Lake were named for Opal Elliot, wife of early Forest Service ranger Roy Elliot.
Oregon Senator Mark Hatfield capped his career by convincing Congress to protect Opal Creek as a scenic recreation area and wilderness in 1996. That action ended the debate over the watershed’s ancient trees that date to the middle ages. The Opal Creek Ancient Forest Education Center offers a varied curriculum suitable for adults and children about the values and the science of the land and water found in an old growth forest. Visitor Zoe Edelen Hare has returned each summer ever since she was a college student in the early 90s.
If you wish to beat the heat during a late summer hot spell, consider an easy to reach getaway that offers an escape into the cool and refreshing Cascade Mountain wilderness. On a blistering summer day, all it takes is a simple leap of faith to find a cool moment in the gorgeous and refreshing pools of Opal Creek. The Opal Creek Ancient Forest Education Center offers a varied curriculum suitable for adults and children about the values and the science of the land and water found in an old growth forest. Visitor Zoe Edelen Hare has returned each summer ever since she was a college student in the early 90s.
So, he named it Opal Creek (it had been called “Boulder Creek”) for his wife.”. Today, the popular trail requires a three-mile hike to reach Jawbone Flats. You may also choose to link with many other trails that reach across Opal Creek Wilderness or the adjoining Bull of the Woods Wilderness. The Opal Creek Ancient Forest Education Center offers a varied curriculum suitable for adults and children about the values and the science of the land and water found in an old growth forest. Visitor Zoe Edelen Hare has returned each summer ever since she was a college student in the early 90s.