: a word (such as “singer,” “ocean,” or “car”) that refers to a person, place, or thing but that is not the name of a particular person, place, or thing. : a noun that may occur with limiting modifiers (as a or an, some, every, and my) and that designates any one of a class of beings or things. See common noun defined for English-language learners. See common noun defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
What is a Common Noun. A noun is a word that names a person, animal, place, thing, or idea. All nouns can be further classified as proper or common. Common nouns are words used to name general items rather than specific ones. The following common noun examples will help you to recognize common nouns. In the sentences that follow, common noun examples are italicized. Notice that the examples providing proper nouns name specific versions of the same type of person, animal, place, thing, or idea. 1  Common Noun: You broke my favorite mug.
A common noun is only capitalized when it is at the beginning of a sentence. A basic definition of a common noun is a person, place thing or idea that is not specific to a certain, particular, or named person, place, thing, or idea.
Learner's definition of COMMON NOUN. [count]. : a word (such as “singer,” “ocean,” or “car”) that refers to a person, place, or thing but that is not the name of a particular person, place, or thing — compare proper noun. Comments & Questions. Comments & Questions.
(A proper noun is used for a specific person, place, or thing.). Here are some examples of common nouns and proper nouns: Unless it starts a sentence or is part of a proper noun, a common noun is not written with a capital letter. Look the following examples (common nouns shaded): 
Common Noun Examples. The following common noun examples will help you to recognize common nouns. In the sentences that follow, common noun examples are italicized. Notice that the examples providing proper nouns name specific versions of the same type of person, animal, place, thing, or idea. 1  Common Noun: You broke my favorite mug.
Definition. A common noun is a noun that's not the name of any particular person, place, or thing. A common noun represents one or all of the members of a class, and it can be preceded by the definite article (the). Contrast with proper noun. As a general rule, a common noun does not begin with a capital letter unless it appears at the start of a sentence. Common nouns can be subdivided into count nouns and mass nouns. Semantically, common nouns can be classified as abstract nouns and concrete nouns.
Often contrasted with proper noun. Example sentences. 1  Making a common noun plural usually means adding an s or changing the ending of the original word. 2  It is a common mistake to capitalise a common noun that is an important word in a sentence. 3  One project in the Centre focused on how children distinguish between proper names and common nouns. 1
Full Definition of COMMON NOUN. : a noun that may occur with limiting modifiers (as a or an, some, every, and my) and that designates any one of a class of beings or things. See common noun defined for English-language learners. See common noun defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
1 How Common Nouns Can Become Proper Nouns.  2 A proper noun and a common noun often combine to form the complete name of something— Allegheny River, Bellevue Hospital —and in such formations, both the proper noun and the common noun are capitalized. Contrast with proper noun. As a general rule, a common noun does not begin with a capital letter unless it appears at the start of a sentence. Common nouns can be subdivided into count nouns and mass nouns. Semantically, common nouns can be classified as abstract nouns and concrete nouns.