Top Definition. schmeck. A schmeck is a small whiff, ie. a portion of food so small it's barely enough to smell... the full phrase is schmeck and a lech... a portion of food so small it's barely a smell and lick. The chocolate mousse dessert was good but at $12 it shoulda been more than a schmeck and a lech. n. an ancient and mysterious word discovered in 1903 by Welsh anthropologists. The meaning of the word is unclear, but scholars have made assumptions from it's pronunciation.
© 2002 - 2015 Paul Hemetsberger | contact. English-German online dictionary developed to help you share your knowledge with others. More information! Contains translations by TU Chemnitz and Mr Honey's Business Dictionary (German-English). Thanks on that account! Links to this dictionary or to single translations are very welcome! Questions and Answers.
English-German online dictionary developed to help you share your knowledge with others. More information! Contains translations by TU Chemnitz and Mr Honey's Business Dictionary (German-English). Thanks on that account! 
A schmeck is a small whiff, ie. a portion of food so small it's barely enough to smell... the full phrase is schmeck and a lech... n. an ancient and mysterious word discovered in 1903 by Welsh anthropologists. The meaning of the word is unclear, but scholars have made assumptions from it's pronunciation.
In modern German Donnerstag translates as Thursday. It translates literally as day of thunder. It is however derived from the word Donar, the thunderer (Donar's day), the G …. What does the word Luther mean in German? Depending on source, the name Luther means: famous warrior, from Old High German Hludher-famous and Heri-army (lit. famous warrior) or people's warrior, as a possible vari … ation of Luither, from Old High German Luit-people and Heri-army (lit. people's warrior).
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
Realing defined. Realing is a word I made up. When you make up a word, you have to always correct it on word spell, and you have to define it. Maybe this will be a new word in the dictionary someday
Schmuck or shmuck in American English is a pejorative meaning one who is stupid or foolish; or an obnoxious, contemptible or detestable person. The word entered English from Yiddish (שמאָק, shmok), where it has similar pejorative meanings, but its original meaning in Yiddish is penis.