Next time you pick up your remote control for your television, think about Mr. Tesla, because in 1898, he too invented the technology to remotely control devices via radio frequencies. In 1887 he created a single electrode X-Ray tube and published a paper discussing it in April of that year. After college, he went to work for Rosen Motors as a propulsion engineer. Rosen Motors was founded in 1990 by Harold Rosen, an electrical engineer, and his brother, Benjamin Rosen. They developed a gas turbine powered hybrid powertrain with an energy storage subsystem that even used regenerative braking.
In fact, remote controls are an invention born in the 1800s. Renowned Serbian-American inventor Nikola Tesla created one of the world's first wireless remote controls, which he unveiled at Madison Square Garden in New York City in 1898. He called his fledgling system, which could be used to control a range of mechanical contraptions, a teleautomaton.. The boat had a small metal antenna that could receive exactly one radio frequency. Tesla sent signals to the boat using a box -- his version of a remote control -- equipped with a lever and a telegraph key (originally designed to send Morse code signals).
Remote controls for TV, VHS and DVD devices. The first remote intended to control a television was developed by Zenith Radio Corporation in 1950. The remote, called Lazy Bones, was connected to the television by a wire. A wireless remote control, the Flashmatic, was developed in 1955 by Eugene Polley. It worked by shining a beam of light onto a photoelectric cell, but the cell did not distinguish between light from the remote and light from other sources.
But the concept of remote control caught on and quickly spread to many other types of equipment. Shortly after Tesla's breakthroughs, Spanish engineer Leonardo Torres-Quevedo used wireless telegraph transmitters to control first a tricycle, then an engine-powered boat, and even submarine torpedoes. The boat had a small metal antenna that could receive exactly one radio frequency. Tesla sent signals to the boat using a box -- his version of a remote control -- equipped with a lever and a telegraph key (originally designed to send Morse code signals).
Sorcerer of Lightning: Nikola Tesla He is a mysterious, almost forgotten, figure, but his inventions in the areas of electrical motors, electrical distribution, remote control, low and high frequency waves, radio, radar and even death rays continue to have a major impact on science and engineering today. 
In actuality, he was sending signals to the mechanism using a small box with control levers on the side. Tesla's U.S. patent number 613,809 describes the first device anywhere for wireless remote control. The working model, or teleautomaton, responded to radio signals and was powered with an internal battery. 
As early as 1892, Nikola Tesla created a basic design for radio.  This was before Marconi. As a mystery, his lab caught fire and  Marconi was the first to be awarded the pat … ent. Authorities  realized that Marconi used Tesla's patent to make his radio and the  patent was granted back to Tesla in 1943. Nikola Tesla is one of the greatest inventors known to man. Some of his most famous inventions are the Tesla Coil, Induction Motor, Wireless telegraphy and the remote control.
But, let’s take a look at what Nikola Tesla — a man who died broke and alone — has actually given to the world. For better or worse, with credit or without, he changed the face of the planet in ways that perhaps no man ever has. 
It was in June of 1956, that the practical television remote controller first entered the American home. However, as far back as 1893, a remote control for television was described by Nikola Tesla in U.S. Patent 613809. The Germans used remote control motorboats during WWI. The first Space Command units were expansive due to the necessary use of six vacuum tubes in the receiver units that raised the price of a television by thirty percent. In the early 1960s, after the invention of the transistor, remote controls came down in price, and in size, as did all electronics.
Commonly, remote controls are Consumer IR devices which send digitally-coded pulses of infrared radiation to control functions such as power, volume, tuning, temperature set point, fan speed, or other features. The remote, called Lazy Bones, was connected to the television by a wire. A wireless remote control, the Flashmatic, was developed in 1955 by Eugene Polley. It worked by shining a beam of light onto a photoelectric cell, but the cell did not distinguish between light from the remote and light from other sources.