Reality therapy is an approach to psychotherapy and counseling. Developed by William Glasser in the 1960s, it is considered a form of cognitive behavioral therapy. 
Founder Dr. William Glasser, M.D. Definition Reality Therapy is a cognitive-behavioural approach to therapy, counselling and problem solving, which focuses on the here-and-now and how we can plan for a better future, instead of concentrating at length on the past.
Reality Therapy. Click here to listen to an interview with Kim Olver, Executive Director and Dr. David Pittle about Reality Therapy and Choice Theory. Reality Therapy is the method of counseling that Dr. Glasser has been teaching since 1965. Reality therapy is firmly based on choice theory and its successful application is dependent on a strong understanding of choice theory. To create a connection between people, the reality therapy counselor, teacher or manager will: 1  Focus on the present and avoid discussing the past because all human problems are caused by unsatisfying present relationships.
Reality therapy is a therapeutic approach that focuses on problem-solving and making better choices in order to achieve specific goals. Developed by Dr. William Glasser, reality therapy is focused on the here and now rather than the past. Reality therapy is a highly effective way to solve problems and set and achieve goals. With an emphasis on changing thoughts and actions, reality therapy empowers individuals to improve the present and future.
Reality Therapy is a particular approach in psychotherapy and counseling. Reality therapy was developed by William Glasser, a psychiatrist. Glasser believes that people who are behaving in inappropriate ways do not need help to find a defense for their behavior. Reality Therapy is a considered a cognitive-behavioral approach to therapy; that is, it focuses on facilitating the client to become aware of, and if necessary, change, his/her thoughts and actions. The following outlines some of the critical concepts of Reality Therapy.
reality therapy, a form of psychotherapy developed by William Glassner. The aims are to help define and assess basic values within the framework of a current situation and to evaluate the person's present behavior and future plans in relation to those values. Therapy is directed to assist patients in recognizing and accepting the present, instead of dwelling on the past. Patients undergoing reality therapy are helped to cope with present demands, limit distortions, and anticipate future needs.
A psychiatric treatment based on the concept that some patients deny the reality of the world around them. Therapy is directed to assist patients in recognizing and accepting the present, instead of dwelling on the past. Patients undergoing reality therapy are helped to cope with present demands, limit distortions, and anticipate future needs.
Reality Therapy is based on a concept called Choice Theory (originally called Control Theory). It has become well established in the US and internationally, and it has also been widely applied in education. Reality Therapy is a considered a cognitive-behavioral approach to therapy; that is, it focuses on facilitating the client to become aware of, and if necessary, change, his/her thoughts and actions. The following outlines some of the critical concepts of Reality Therapy.
What is Reality Therapy. Reality therapy is a specific type of cognitive-behavioral therapy which was first introduced in 1965 by psychiatrist Dr. William Glasser. The focus of reality therapy is choice and the patient’s ability to solve problems
Reality therapy maintains that the individual is suffering from a socially universal human condition rather than a mental illness. It is in the unsuccessful attainment of basic needs that a person's behavior moves away from the norm. Since fulfilling essential needs is part of a person's present life, reality therapy does not concern itself with a client's past. Neither does this type of therapy deal with unconscious mental processes. In these ways reality therapy is very different from other forms of psychotherapy.