To change your name on your Social Security card: 1  Complete an Application For A Social Security Card (Form SS-5); and. 2  Show documents proving: 3  Legal name change; and. 4  Identity; and. 5  U.S. citizenship (if you have not already established your citizenship with us), or immigration status if you are not a U.S. citizen.
Corrected Card for a Foreign Born U.S. Citizen Child. If you legally change your child's name because of adoption, court order or any other reason, you need to tell Social Security so that your child can get a corrected card. If your child is working, also tell your child's employer.
If you legally change your name because of marriage, divorce, court order or any other reason, you need to tell Social Security so that you can get a corrected card.
If you need to change your name on your Social Security card, you must show them a recently issued document as proof of your legal name change. Documents Social Security may accept to prove a legal name change include: 1  Marriage document; 2  Divorce decree;
Citizenship: Also, if you are a U.S. citizen born outside the United States and our records do not show you are a citizen, you will need to provide proof of your U.S. citizenship. If you are not a U.S. citizen, Social Security will ask to see your current immigration documents.
Citizenship: Also, if you are a U.S. citizen born outside the United States and our records do not show you are a citizen, you will need to provide proof of your U.S. citizenship. If you are not a U.S. citizen, Social Security will ask to see your current immigration documents.
To get a corrected Social Security card, you will need to: 1  Show the required documents. 2  You will need proof of your identity. 3  Sometimes you also may need to prove your current U.S. citizenship or lawful noncitizen status. 4  See Learn What Documents You Need for more information.
This service is free. To get a corrected Social Security card, you will need to: 1  Show the required documents. 2  You will need proof of your identity. 3  Sometimes you also may need to prove your current U.S. citizenship or lawful noncitizen status. 4  See Learn What Documents You Need for more information.