Meaning of Aleah. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Aleah means-immigrant to a new home.The name Aleah originated as an Israeli name. The name Aleah is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-immigrant to a new home. Origin-Israel. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Aleah means-immigrant to a new home.The name Aleah originated as an Israeli name. The name Aleah is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-immigrant to a new home
Israeli Meaning: The name Aleah is an Israeli baby name. In Israeli the meaning of the name Aleah is: Immigrant to a new home. American Meaning: The name Aleah is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Aleah is: Immigrant to a new home. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths
Aleah is an equivalently rare last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Aleah for girls. Aleah entered the list in 1994 and reached its peak position of #391 in the U.S. in the year 2011, and is currently at #423. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Aleah /aleah/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Aleah's name origin is Hebrew, and the name Aleah means exalted, sublime. Aleah is a variant form, with the suffix-eah, of Aliya (Hebrew): made popular by late singer Aaliyah. Kreatif forms: Aaaleah, Aialeah. Presented below is the birth name popularity of Aleah for girls. Aleah entered the list in 1994 and reached its peak position of #391 in the U.S. in the year 2011, and is currently at #423. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Comments and insights on the name Aleah: | Edit. The name Aleah is derived from the original spelling of Aaliyah. It is an Arabic name meaning high status, noble, exalted, sublime, spiritual. There are many ways to spell this name such as; Aleah, Aleeah, Aleea, Aleeia, Aliya, Aliyah, Alea, Alia. all generally have two easy pronunciation of Al-ee-ya or AA-lee-yah
Etymology & Historical Origin-Aleah. Aleah is an Americanized respelling of the Arabic name Aliyya/Aliyah which is derived from “ali” meaning “sublime, exalted”. In the Hebrew language, to make an “aliyah” means to go up toward God, or more specifically, “to rise, ascend”. The name Aaliyah became trendy in America starting in the mid-1990s in homage to the highly successful and talented pop-star Aaliyah. Variations of her name immediately began to appear on the charts, including Aleah, Alia, Aliya, Aliyah and more recently Aleigha.
[ 3 syll. a-lea(h) , al-e- ah ] The baby girl name Aleah is pronounced as ah-Liy-ah- †. Aleah's language of origin is Hebrew and it is predominantly used in the English language. In addition, Aleah is a derivative (English) of the Arabic, English, and Hebrew Aliyah. Aleah has 13 derivatives. Derivatives include Aileah, Ala, Alah, Alea, Aleea, Aleeah, Aleia, Aleiah, Alia, Allea, Alleah, Alleea, and Alleeah. Aleah is a fairly popular baby name for girls, and it is also considered trendy. The name has been growing in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only infrequent use. Its usage peaked modestly in 2011 with 0.042% of baby girls being given the name Aleah. Its ranking then was #391.
What does Aleah mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Aleah is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Aleah is ascender. It is also of Arabic origin, where its meaning is high exalted one. 