Plastic – material composed mainly of polymers. Biodegradable plastics – plastics that will fully decompose to carbon dioxide, methane, water, biomass and inorganic compounds under aerobic or anaerobic conditions and the action of living organisms. Plastics are typically composed of artificial synthetic polymers. 2 Biodegradation Biodegradation or biotic degradation is a specific property of certain plastic materials-that is, of the polymers these materials are made of. It is a process by which a polymer material decomposes under the influence of biotic components (living organisms).
Biodegradation is the chemical dissolution of materials by bacteria, fungi, or other biological means. Although often conflated, biodegradable is distinct in meaning from compostable. While biodegradable simply means to be consumed by microorganism, compostable makes the specific demand that the object break down under composting conditions.
Instead carbon fiber is cut down into the strips and melted, where it can be transformed into a thermoplastic. This has benefits, and some recycling efforts are turning the recycled carbon fiber into phone cases, laptop shells or even water bottle cages for bicycles. Of course the biggest use of carbon fiber is in the aerospace industry, and the new Dreamliner airplane is made of carbon fiber. This material allows for weight savings while still providing that strength and rigidity. Composite materials thus offer a multitude of benefits today.
Organic material can be degraded aerobically with oxygen, or anaerobically, without oxygen. Biosurfactant, an extracellular surfactant secreted by microorganisms, enhances the biodegradation process. Biodegradable matter is generally organic material that serves as a nutrient for microorganisms. Although often conflated, biodegradable is distinct in meaning from compostable. While biodegradable simply means to be consumed by microorganism, compostable makes the specific demand that the object break down under composting conditions.
Today carbon fiber is heralded for its strength, its rigidity and its ability to be cast in shapes that would be virtually impossible with other materials. Carbon fiber is now commonly used in high performance automobiles, and in the world of sporting goods with everything from skis to bicycles to golf clubs. Of course the biggest use of carbon fiber is in the aerospace industry, and the new Dreamliner airplane is made of carbon fiber. This material allows for weight savings while still providing that strength and rigidity. Composite materials thus offer a multitude of benefits today.
Carbon fiber is neither biodegradable nor photodegradable. It's a composite material, which means that it's a combination of materials, whereby the different materials remain chemically separate and distinct within the finished structure. 
In practice, almost all chemical compounds and materials are subject to biodegradation, the key is the relative rates of such processes-minutes, days, years, centuries... A number of factors determine the degradation rate of organic compounds. Salient factors include light, water and oxygen. Although often conflated, biodegradable is distinct in meaning from compostable. While biodegradable simply means to be consumed by microorganism, compostable makes the specific demand that the object break down under composting conditions.
To be truly biodegradable, a substance or material should break down into carbon dioxide (a nutrient for plants), water and naturally occurring minerals that do not cause harm to the ecosystem (salt or baking soda, for example, are already in their natural mineral state and do not need to biodegrade). A leaf is a perfect example of a biodegradable product -- it is made in the spring, used by the plant for photosynthesis in the summer, drops to the ground in autumn and assimilated into the soil to nourish the plant for the next season.
0.819. Thus, while about 82% of the carbon in office paper is biodegradable, only 22% of the carbon in newsprint would be available through anaerobic digestion. Put another way, it would take almost 4 tons of newsprint amendment to provide the same bioavailable carbon as 1 ton of office paper. 