September 19 & october 7, 1777 The Battle of Saratoga [referring to Saratoga County, New York] actually may be broken into two separate clashes, three weeks apart. The fir … st took place on September 19, 1777 at Freeman's Farm. The second was at Bemis Heights on October 7. Answer The Battle of Saratoga was fought on two dates: September 19, 1777, and on October 7, 1777. The Battle of Saratoga happened during 1777 and was the turning point in the Revolutionary War. Burgoyne was the leader of the British and Horatio Gates was the leader of the … Continental Army. There were two battles that were within the Battle of Saratoga
The Battles of Saratoga (September 19 and October 7, 1777) marked the climax of the Saratoga campaign giving a decisive victory to the Americans over the British in the American Revolutionary War. The first battle, on September 19, began when Burgoyne moved some of his troops in an attempt to flank the entrenched American position on Bemis Heights. Benedict Arnold, anticipating the maneuver, placed significant forces in his way.
The Battle of Saratoga, comprising two significant battles during September and October of 1777, was a crucial victory for the Patriots during the American Revolution and is considered the turning point of the Revolutionary War. Battle #1. Burgoyne again began his advance south, but was stopped about 10 miles below Saratoga. The first battle of Saratoga, the Battle of Freeman's Farm, took place on September 19, 1777. A militia of sharpshooters from Virginia harassed the British, while other colonist forces aggressively charged into battle with them. Burgoyne lost two men for every one on the American side
Battle of Saratoga. In late September and during the first week of October 1777, Gate's American army was positioned between Burgoyne's army and Albany. On October 7, Burgoyne took the offensive. The troops crashed together south of the town of Saratoga, and Burgoyne's army was broken.
At the Battle of Freeman's Farm, the new commander of the Northern Department of the American army, General Horatio Gates, lost an indecisive battle. During this First Battle of Saratoga, fought 19 September 1777, the American forces lost ground to the British forces under General Burgoyne. Disagreements in tactics and personalities led to a heated argument between Generals Gates and Arnold
by Pamela Kline and Paul Pavao. Known as the turning point of the Revolutionary War, the Battle of Saratoga was fought on September 19th and October 7th in 1777. Its two battles are also known as the Battle of Freeman's Farm and the Battle of Bemis Heights, from where they took place, in upstate New York near Saratoga. 
September 19 & october 7, 1777 The Battle of Saratoga [referring to Saratoga County, New York] actually may be broken into two separate clashes, three weeks apart. The fir … st took place on September 19, 1777 at Freeman's Farm. The second was at Bemis Heights on October 7. The battle of Saratoga may also be called the battle-s of Saratoga, since it refers to two engagements (Freeman's Farm on Sept. 19, and Bemis Heights on October 7). At the s … ame time the British Philadelphia campaign of 1777-78 was also going on