Maxton is one of the latest surnames to find a place on the American masculine list of given names. The name just appeared for the first time in 2011. One more surname to add to the growing list of surnames-turned-first-names. Parents are digging up new surnames almost on a daily basis in the race to be different. The most popular of the surnames to become given names to baby boys in America are Mason, Logan and Jackson. On the opposite of the spectrum are some of these newer, more obscure surnames just coming into circulation like Brecken, Hendrix and Maxton.
Maxton Name Meaning. Scottish: habitational name from a place so called in Roxburghshire (Borders), named as the ‘settlement (tun) of Maccus’. There is also a place of this name in Kent, England, but it does not seem to have given rise to a surname. pwh. You can find out where the majority of the Maxton families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
Maxton is a 6 letter name with 2 syllables. This name means greatest. To see famous people named Maxton, pop culture references for the name Maxton and nicknames & variations-visit Nameberry or Wikipedia. Macedonio / Mcdonald /. By analyzing the number of births and frequency of this name we've determined that it's currently a very unique male name. 2 syllables. One of the things that makes a baby name sound good and have a nice rythm is the number of syllables-and especially the number of syllables along with the syllable count for your last name. A simple rule is to avoid having the same number of syllables in your first, middle and
Clan Maxton is considered an armigerous clan, meaning that it is considered to have had at one time a chief who possessed the chiefly arms, or who was considered chief of the name. However no one at present is in possession of such arms, and no one is considered chief of the name. He may be the same Alexander de Maxton, who was styled constable of Roxburgh, and the individual who is recorded as submitting to Edward I, king of England, on the Ragman Rolls in 1296. In around 1410, Robert de Maxton received the lands of Cultoquhey near Crieff in Perthshire.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Maxton. Maxton is similar to Maxwell (another surname-turned-first-name) in that both surnames originated from the same place. Back in the 10th century there was a Norse-Gaelic king by the name of Maccus mac Arailt. The most popular of the surnames to become given names to baby boys in America are Mason, Logan and Jackson. On the opposite of the spectrum are some of these newer, more obscure surnames just coming into circulation like Brecken, Hendrix and Maxton.
Maxton is a new member of the ever-expanding Max clan of baby names, hitting the U.S. Top 1000 for the first time in 2011. It joins newfangled Maxon and stylish cousin Paxton. Still, we prefer the more classic Maxwell, Maxfield, Maximum, or just plain Max. 
Clan Maxton is a Scottish clan. The clan does not have a chief recognised by the Lord Lyon King of Arms therefore the clan has no standing under Scots Law. He may be the same Alexander de Maxton, who was styled constable of Roxburgh, and the individual who is recorded as submitting to Edward I, king of England, on the Ragman Rolls in 1296. In around 1410, Robert de Maxton received the lands of Cultoquhey near Crieff in Perthshire.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Maxton birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find out where the majority of the Maxton families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Maxton Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Maxton has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Maxton to other names. The name Maxton is of modern coinage, possibly derived from the Scottish surname (clan name). It is composed of the elements tun and Maccus meaning meaning town or settlement of Maccus. It refers to the lands and barony of Maxton in Roxburghshire. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Here are pictures of people with the name Maxton. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!