From Piriform: Recuva (pronounced recover) is a freeware Windows utility to restore files that have been accidentally deleted from your computer. This includes files emptied from the Recycle bin as well as images and other files that have been deleted by user error from digital camera memory cards or MP3 players. 
Procedure for recovering files from Lexar flash drive: 1  Connect the Lexar flash drive to your computer. 2  Download and install Yodot File Recovery software to the flash drive connected computer. 3  Run the software to begin the recovery process and follow the instruction of it. 1 Select the lexar flash drive from which your files is to be recovered and press “ Next” option. 2  The software will scan the selected flash drive and displays all the recovered files and folders in Data View and File Type View.
Recuva is an easy-to-use data recovery tool. It lets you scan for and retrieve previously deleted documents, files, folders and other information, including emails, images and video formats. Recuva also uses secure overwriting techniques for erasing important, private or sensitive information. Please refer to section 3.3 How to Perform a Deep Scan Using Recuva. Scan for non-deleted files (for recovery from damaged or reformatted disks) : This option lets you attempt to recover files from disks that may have sustained physical damage or software-related corruption.
Just insert the memory card, which has the photos you want to recover, into a card reader and launch Image Rescue. You'll be presented with a simple screen that allows a number of useful actions. To recover photos just choose your card, click on the Scan button and Image Rescue will do the rest. Perhaps you've lost an important photo when you accidentally deleted a photo from your memory card while the card is in the camera or you ejected your memory card before the camera has finished writing the images to the card.
You can recover all your lost files and folders by using any of the USB file recovery software. But most of the users prefer Yodot File Recovery to recover all their lost or deleted files. Lexar flash drive recovery utility: Yodot File Recovery is one of the outstanding recovery software which will recover all your files and folders that are deleted, lost or corrupted from Lexar flash drive. 1 Select the lexar flash drive from which your files is to be recovered and press “ Next” option. 2  The software will scan the selected flash drive and displays all the recovered files and folders in Data View and File Type View.
Steps to perform Lexar USB drive recovery: Step 1: First, connect Lexar USB drive and then launch this software on your system. From main window, select Recover Photos option as shown in fig A. Fig A: Main Window. Step 2: Software displays a list of all drives.
1. Download and extract. To retrieve deleted files you need some specialist software. Recuva from Piriform will do this job for you for free. Download the portable version and opt to save the zip file to a USB thumb drive. 9. Restore location. When you're sure the file you want is there, tick the box next to it and click the Recover button. You now need to provide a location in which to save the recovered file. Make sure that this is an external drive, so you don't risk overwriting any other data on your hard drive.
The process is the same as running Recuva generally, but first you must tell Recuva to scan for non-deleted files: To set Recuva to recover files from damaged or reformatted disks: 1  Start Recuva. 2  Enter Advanced mode if the Wizard launches. 3  Click Options. 4  In the Options dialog box, click the Actions tab. 5  Click Scan for non-deleted files, and then click OK. 6  Run the Recuva scan as normal. 