China currently has the largest number of active cellphones of any country in the world, with over 1 billion users by February 2012. It also has the world's largest number of internet and broadband users, with over 591 million internet users as of 2013, equivalent to around 44% of its population. China is a recognized nuclear weapons state and has the world's largest standing army, with the second-largest defence budget. The PRC has been a United Nations member since 1971, when it replaced the ROC as a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council.
China is considered a cradle of civilization, with its known history beginning with an ancient civilization – one of the world's earliest – that flourished in the fertile basin of the Yellow River in the North China Plain. China is a recognized nuclear weapons state and has the world's largest standing army, with the second-largest defence budget. The PRC has been a United Nations member since 1971, when it replaced the ROC as a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council.
China, officially the People's Republic of China (PRC), is a sovereign state in East Asia. It is the world's most populous country, with a population of over 1.35 billion. China is a recognized nuclear weapons state and has the world's largest standing army, with the second-largest defence budget. The PRC has been a United Nations member since 1971, when it replaced the ROC as a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council.
China is also the world's largest exporter and second-largest importer of goods. China is a recognized nuclear weapons state and has the world's largest standing army, with the second-largest defence budget. The PRC has been a United Nations member since 1971, when it replaced the ROC as a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council.
China's environmental crisis is one of the most pressing challenges to emerge from the country's rapid industrialization. Its economic rise, which has averaged around 10 percent annual GDP growth for the past decade, has come at the expense of its environment and public health. China is the world's largest coal producer and accounts for almost half of global consumption. Coal is also the source of as much as 90 percent of the country's sulfur dioxide emissions and half of its particulate emissions. Mostly burned in the north, it provides around 70 percent of China's energy needs.
China’s Major Industries In A Nutshell. China is known to the world as an economic superpower. Most of the world’s trade and economic activities are highly dependent on the industries within China and the products that come out of them. China’s energy industry is one of the fastest growing industries in the world. China had spent nearly $34.6 billion in 2009 on the renewable energy sector, which is almost twice as what US spent.
Beijing, which means Northern Capital (from the Chinese characters 北 for north and 京 for capital), is the capital of the People’s Republic of China and one of the most heavily populated cities in the world. It is generally believed that Beijing was the largest city in the world for most of the 15th, 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries. Beijing has also been the location of many significant events in recent Chinese history, principally the 2008 Summer Olympics.
China's form of government is a communist state known as a People's Republic. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is the leading political party in China. Photo by: Xuejun li. China's form of government is a communist state known as a People's Republic. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is the leading political party in China. Unlike parties in Western democracies, CCP is a tightly organized political force that controls and leads society at all levels.
China is the second largest economy of the world and is the world’s fastest growing economy. Leaving all the countries behind, China has emerged as the largest exporter and importer of the world. From electronics to population, from inventions to government, China is known for a lot many things but here are top ten best things that China is famous for: 10. Century Eggs. Also known as pidan, preserved egg, hundred year egg, millennium egg, Century Egg is one of the most famous cuisines of China. Chinese culture is known for several colors and shades. But the color red has a great significance; it is the only color which is admired by the majority of Chinese. It is a symbol of fortune, courage, loyalty and good luck.
Beijing is the second largest Chinese city by urban population after Shanghai-the 2010 census revealed that the official total population in Beijing was 19,612,368- and is the nation's political, cultural, and educational centre of China. It is generally believed that Beijing was the largest city in the world for most of the 15th, 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries. Beijing has also been the location of many significant events in recent Chinese history, principally the 2008 Summer Olympics.