a) What is ∆E for the combustion of glucose at 25 oC? (Hint: you will need a balanced equation for this problem. Assume glucose is a solid and the water produced is a liquid at this temperature.). 
home / study / questions and answers / science / chemistry / combustion of glucose (c6h12o6) with oxygen produces ... 
(Answer #1). Glucose (C6H12O6) is an example of a hydrocarbon and a simple sugar. The most common reaction of glucose with oxygen is through the combustion reaction. Combustion reaction is a type of reaction wherein a substance reacts rapidly with oxygen and releases energy. The energy is observed as heat and light. The general equation for the combustion of hydrocarbon is:
Fructose is a carbohydrate, and is a simple sugar found in fruits. It is often called just fruit sugar. Fructose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. When oxidized in the body in the process called metabolism, glucose produces carbon dioxide, water, and some nitrogen compounds and in the process provides energy which can be used by the cells. The energy yield is about 686 kilocalories (2870 kilojoules) per mole which can be used to do work or help keep the body warm.
Glucose is made during photosynthesis from water and carbon dioxide, using energy from sunlight. The reverse of the photosynthesis reaction, which releases this energy, is a very important source of power for cellular respiration. Glucose is stored as a polymer, in plants as starch and in animals as glycogen. Glucose is a sugar with the molecular formula C 6 H 12 O 6. The name glucose (/ˈɡluːkoʊs/) comes from the Greek word γλευκος, meaning sweet wine, must . The suffix  -ose  is a chemical classifier, denoting a carbohydrate
Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. When oxidized in the body in the process called metabolism, glucose produces carbon dioxide, water, and some nitrogen compounds and in the process provides energy which can be used by the cells. The energy yield is about 686 kilocalories (2870 kilojoules) per mole which can be used to do work or help keep the body warm.
The following chemical equation shows thecombustion of methane and oxygen to form carbon dioxide and water:CH 4 +O 2 → CO 2 +H 2 OUnfortunately, this equation is incomplete. Although it does indicate the identities of the reactionproducts (carbon dioxide and water), it does not indicate their relative quantities. When the sugar glucose (C 6 H 12 O 6) ferments, the result is the production of carbon dioxide (CO 2) andethanol (C 2 H 5 OH). This is the chemical reaction on which all alcohol beverage industries are founded: theconversion of sugar into ethanol.
It is a chemical reaction (exothermic) in which a fuel is a burned.  Reactants of combustion are basically fuel + oxygen.  Complete combustion gives carbon dioxide while … incomplete  combustion results in carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide (commonly  known as 'soot'). 12 people found this useful. Answer 1 It is a carbohydrate(*)/sugar. It is in both plants as a result of photosynthesis and in the human body as well. Glucose is a sugar found in the bloodstream and is … the body's main source of energy. Pure glucose is a solid, and will therefore not evaporate(**).
Cellular respiration is the process whereby cells in our bodies obtain energy. Glucose reacts with oxygen producing carbon dioxide and water with the release of energy. Glucose + oxygen carbon dioxide + water + energy. C 6 H 12 O 6 + 6O 2 6CO 2 + 6H 2 O + energy. 