Didgeridoo (also didjeridu or didjeridoo) is the Euro-Australian name for an ancient tribal instrument from Northern Australia. Over 40 tribal names for the didgeridoo are known; two of the most common outside Australia are Yaraki and Yirdaki. (Yirdaki means neck of emu or just neck.). Aerophone because the didgeridoo produces sound with a vibrating column of air; lip-reed because the reed that vibrates the air column is the player's lip.
(click image to enlarge). A traditionally made didgeridoo has several unique features. First, the didgeridoo is primarily a natural, rather than a manufactured object. Traditional didgeridoos are made from a Eucalyptus branch or sapling that has been hollowed out by white ants (a species of termite). Aerophone because the didgeridoo produces sound with a vibrating column of air; lip-reed because the reed that vibrates the air column is the player's lip.
Share on Facebook. The didgeridoo is probably the world's oldest musical instrument, originating in the world's oldest continuous culture: the indigenous peoples of Australia, whose culture is believed to be at least 40,000 years old. In this story the gods also have bird-forms; Giddabush (a bird also known as the long-tailed fashion) is the didgeridoo player, the Butcher bird plays clapsticks and sings, and the Piwi bird dances. As they play, dance, and sing, they name (and hence create) all of the things in the world.
Apart from sacred ceremony, the didgeridoo is also played recreationally as accompaniment to clan songs, entertainment songs, teaching songs and individually-owned songs. Other traditional forms of recreational didgeridoo playing include story-telling and nature studies. In this story the gods also have bird-forms; Giddabush (a bird also known as the long-tailed fashion) is the didgeridoo player, the Butcher bird plays clapsticks and sings, and the Piwi bird dances. As they play, dance, and sing, they name (and hence create) all of the things in the world.
The didgeridoo (/ˌdɪdʒəriːˈduː/) (also known as a didjeridu) is a wind instrument developed by Indigenous Australians of northern Australia potentially within the last 1,500 years and still in widespread use today both in Australia and around the world. Kate Bush made extensive use of the didgeridoo (played by Australian musician Rolf Harris) on her album The Dreaming, which was written and recorded after a holiday in Australia.
Termite hollowed didgeridoos have a very irregular inner surface unique to each didgeridoo which do give many a genuine didgeridoo very interesting sound characteristics, but make it far too complicated to describe physically. So for the purpose of this page we need to reduce a didgeridoo to a perfect pipe. Consequently this page is really about the physics of a PVC didgeridoo or any other didgeridoo as long as the inside diameter is exactly the same for the whole length of the didgeridoo. Next lets have a look at some basic music theory: 
It is frequently stated that the didgeridoo goes back up to 40,000 years. There is no evidence to support this claim. It is generally accepted amongst researchers that the didgeridoo was played 2,000 years ago, based on pictorial evidence in rock paintings from this era found in the Northern Territory. Essentially, any rigid tube with a rougly 20-40mm circular or oval mouthpiece can be used as a didgeridoo. Many players start to learn on a length of plastic tube and graduate to proper instruments when they are a little more proficient.
Although some believe the Australian Aborigine has been using the didgeridoo for over 40,000 years, the oldest records of Aborigines playing the didgeridoo date back 2000 years in the form of old Northern Territory cave and rock paintings. 
Given that these Dreamtime stories show the didgeridoo as an essential tool in the creation of the world as well as a device invented directly by the gods, it isn't surprising that the didgeridoo is a sacred instrument. In indigenous Australian culture, the didgeridoo is used in both open and secret religious ceremony. In this story the gods also have bird-forms; Giddabush (a bird also known as the long-tailed fashion) is the didgeridoo player, the Butcher bird plays clapsticks and sings, and the Piwi bird dances. As they play, dance, and sing, they name (and hence create) all of the things in the world.
A modern didgeridoo is usually cylindrical or conical, and can measure anywhere from 1 to 3 m (3 to 10 ft) long. Most are around 1.2 m (4 ft) long. Generally, the longer the instrument, the lower its pitch or key. However, flared instruments play a higher pitch than unflared instruments of the same length. Kate Bush made extensive use of the didgeridoo (played by Australian musician Rolf Harris) on her album The Dreaming, which was written and recorded after a holiday in Australia.