Share on Google Plus. Osteoarthritis, the most common type of arthritis, occurs when the cartilage on the ends of your bones wears down. This can cause pain and stiffness in the joints, swelling, muscle weakness, and a reduced range of motion in the affected joints. Osteoarthritis can occur in any joint, but is most often found in the hands, hips, knees, or spine.
It is fairly common for osteoarthritis to occur in the vertebrae of the spine, but osteoarthritis in the spine qualifies for disability benefits only under certain conditions. To meet the requirements of the listing for spinal disorders, you must have a diagnosis of osteoarthritis in your spine and one of the following:
Osteoarthritis: Symptoms, Information & Treatment. Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis, and the leading cause of chronic disability in the United States affects nearly 27 million people.
Osteoarthritis causes pain and stiffness in the joints for many, many people as they get older (it is sometimes called degenerative arthritis), but few people qualify for disability on account of arthritic pain and stiffness.
If you have osteoarthritis in the vertebrae of the spine, you are not alone. This is a very common area of the body to have OA. Under certain specific condition, a person with OA of the spine can be approved for disability.
But keep this all in perspective: Most people with OA don't become disabled by it. And you can take many steps, exercising and losing weight, for example, that will help you keep your osteoarthritis manageable and prevent disability down the road.
Introduction. Osteoarthritis is a condition that causes the joints to become painful and stiff. It is the most common type of arthritis in the UK. The severity of osteoarthritis symptoms can vary greatly from person to person, and between different affected joints.
Few people qualify for disability benefits for their osteoarthritis, despite how painful it can be. However, if your OA symptoms get progressively worse to the point where you lose the ability to use your hands for daily living activities, or it limits your mobility, there is a chance of getting disability payments.