Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) is a tickborne disease caused by the bacterium Rickettsia rickettsii. This organism is a cause of potentially fatal human illness in North and South America, and is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected tick species. Typical symptoms include: fever, headache, abdominal pain, vomiting, and muscle pain. A rash may also develop, but is often absent in the first few days, and in some patients, never develops. Rocky Mountain spotted fever can be a severe or even fatal illness if not treated in the first few days of symptoms.
A vaccine containing a suspension of inactivated Rickettsia prowazekii that has been grown in embryonate eggs, used to immunize against epidemic typhus. 
Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF), also known as blue disease, is the most lethal and most frequently reported rickettsial illness in the United States. It has been diagnosed throughout the Americas. The name “Rocky Mountain spotted fever” is something of a misnomer. The disease was first identified in the Rocky Mountain region, but beginning in the 1930s, medical researchers realized that it occurred in many other areas of
Rickettsia rickettsii-the agent of Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Rickettsia sibirica-the agent of Siberian or North Asian tick typhus. Rickettsia tsutsugamushi-a species causing tsutsugamushi disease and scrub typhus. Rickettsia typhi-a species causing murine or endemic typhus fever. 
In the United States, these include the American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis) , Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni) , and brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus). Typical symptoms include: fever, headache, abdominal pain, vomiting, and muscle pain. A rash may also develop, but is often absent in the first few days, and in some patients, never develops. Rocky Mountain spotted fever can be a severe or even fatal illness if not treated in the first few days of symptoms.
Student presentation on. Rickettsia rickettsii, Causitive Agent of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. The Bacteria. Rickettsia rickettsii is the small, aerobic gram-negative bacterium that is the cause Rocky Mountain spotted fever in humans (and other vertebrates). They are obligate, intracellular bacteria that range in size form 0.2x0.5 µm to 0.3x2.0µm. 
Rickettsia prowazekii is a species of gram-negative, alphaproteobacteria, obligate intracellular parasitic, aerobic bacteria that is the etiologic agent of epidemic typhus, transmitted in the feces of lice. 
1.4. The ideal rickettsial vaccine would provide solid, lifelong resistance to disease caused by R. prowazekii, R. rickettsii, R. conorii, and R. typhi and cause no harm or discomfort in all populations of humans. A Comparison of vaccine-stimulated immunity to Rickettsia and mechanisms of immunity to a primary rickettsial infection. Recovery from a rickettsial infection confers very strong long-lasting protective immunity against subsequent reinfection.
INFECTIOUS AGENTS. Rickettsial infections are caused by a variety of bacteria from the genera Rickettsia, Orientia, Ehrlichia, Neorickettsia, Neoehrlichia, and Anaplasma (Table 3-18). Rickettsia spp. are classically divided into the typhus group and spotted fever group (SFG). Orientia spp. make up the scrub typhus group