· just now. Report Abuse. yes, it's ok. as long as you have a works cited page at the end of your research paper and when you do use the information from anothe rsource, you do put it in quotes and you have to use a shorter citation like the one in parantheses. I'm writing a research paper and I want to know if I can copy and paste information if I cite my sources correctly. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines.
Is it OK to copy information DIRECTLY from the source if I cite the source in my paper? I'm writing a research paper and I want to know if I can copy and paste information if I cite my sources correctly. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines.
To use Paste Special, first copy the text you want from your webpage. Second, put your cursor where you want to paste in your Word document. Then select Paste Special from the Edit menu (Word 2003) or from the Paste button on the Home Tab (Word 2007, 2010). A dialog box like the one below will pop up. It allows you to skip the format wrangling and to paste just the text you selected using the same settings as in your document. What Paste Special Is Good For. Paste Special is helpful when you want to copy and paste from your Internet browser window or PDF into your Word document. You can use Paste Special to help construct your reference list, and in doing so you can reduce transcription errors and save time. For example, you can use it to copy and paste. 1  DOIs, 2  URLs, and
How to avoid plagiarism. 1  be sure to cite a source any time you use a quotation or an idea from an author. 2  be sure to keep accurate records as you conduct a search of where you are getting information from. 1 if you cut and paste information take a second to put quotations around information so that you remember that something is a quotation. 2  Also be sure that you record where you found the information-this will save you time in the long run.
Plagiarism. Plagiarism for the purposes of your paper for this course will be defined as representing any work or idea that you have not created as your own. It is especially easy when using electronic sources that allow you to cut and paste text to forget to cite a source. 1 if you cut and paste information take a second to put quotations around information so that you remember that something is a quotation. 2  Also be sure that you record where you found the information-this will save you time in the long run.
For more information on copy and pasting text, see Wikipedia:Copying text from other sources. For more information on closely paraphrasing text, see Wikipedia:Close paraphrasing. Plagiarism is taking credit for someone else's writing as your own, including their language and ideas, without providing adequate credit. N Copying from a source acknowledged in a well-placed citation, without in-text attribution Inserting a text—copied word-for-word, or closely paraphrased with very few changes from a copyrighted source—then citing the source in an inline citation after the passage that was copied, without naming the source in the text.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Maucamp. Confidence votes 9.6K. No, as long as you credit the source you have used and if it is a direct quote you have used quotation marks then it will not count as plagiarism even if you did copy and paste it. Select what you want to copy. (If it is a picture you have to right click, and select copy) then hit Ctrl and c at the same time. Then when you go to where you want to paste h … it Ctrl v
1 be sure to cite a source any time you use a quotation or an idea from an author. 2  be sure to keep accurate records as you conduct a search of where you are getting information from. 3  Take a minute when copying an off-line article to be sure that you have the information that you will need to cite your source. 1 if you cut and paste information take a second to put quotations around information so that you remember that something is a quotation. 2  Also be sure that you record where you found the information-this will save you time in the long run.
Or you can just click on the text-field and press Ctrl + V.    If it is not text, you might not be able to copy it, but if it is for instance a picture from google, you can paste it too, you put the mouse cursor over the picture right click and then click copy, OR you can press Ctrl+C. Select what you want to copy. (If it is a picture you have to right click, and select copy) then hit Ctrl and c at the same time. Then when you go to where you want to paste h … it Ctrl v