Damage to the hypoglossal nerve will weaken the side of the tongue that is parallel to the affected portion of the nerve, causing reduced movement of the tongue. For example, if the left branch of the cranial nerve is damaged, the left side of the tongue will be affected. Hypoglossal Nerve-Cranial Nerve XII. The hypoglossal nerve is the twelfth cranial nerve, which means that it is located the closest to the back of the head. Its primary purpose is to control the
The hypoglossal nerve is the final of the cranial nerves. It is essential for supplying the muscles of the tongue being a somatic motor nerve. Arising from the brainstem at the level of the medulla, it passes through its own canal—the hypoglossal canal. Onwards, it passes to supply the muscles of the tongue.
The path of the nerve starts in the hypoglossal nucleus of the brainstem, which is located near the midline of the medulla oblongata, and then travels between the carotid artery and jugular vein to end up on the underside of the tongue. If there are problems with the hypoglossal nerve, the tongue may become paralyzed. To test the nerve’s function, a patient would be asked to stick out their tongue. If paralysis were present, the tongue would point in the direction of the affected side.
Cranial nerves are the nerves that emerge directly from the brain (including the brainstem), in contrast to spinal nerves (which emerge from segments of the spinal cord). Cranial nerves exchange information between the brain and parts of the body, primarily to and from regions of the head and neck. Spinal nerves emerge sequentially from the spinal cord with the spinal nerve closest to the head (C1) emerging in the space above the first cervical vertebra.
The hypoglossal nerve is the twelfth cranial nerve XII, and innervates muscles of the tongue. 
0 Comments. Hypoglossal Nerve-Cranial Nerve XII. The hypoglossal nerve is the twelfth cranial nerve, which means that it is located the closest to the back of the head. Its primary purpose is to control the movement of the tongue. In fact, it innervates all of the intrinsic muscles of the tongue, as well as three out of four of the extrinsic muscles of the tongue
The Hypoglossal Nerve is the twelfth of the Twelve Cranial Nerves. The fibers consist of Efferent Motoric and Afferent Sensory fibers. The word Afferent means toward the centre, as in from a peripheral area of a limb to the central nervous system. The pathway for the Efferent motoric fibers of the Hypoglossal nerve is the following (from the initiation in the brain to the termination in the periphery): 1  The Nucleus of the Hypoglossal Nerve is situated in the brainstem at the level of the Hypoglossal Trigone.