I believe that Mercutio is the bigger instigator. Mercutio was already geared up for a fight in Act III scene i when Tybalt arrived looking for Romeo. Tybalt's fight wasn't with Mercutio, but Mercutio picked one with him. (Answer #6). Mercutio may be a trouble maker, but he's definitely not a villain. I found villain defined as A wicked or evil person; a scoundrel. OR A dramatic or fictional character who is typically at odds with the hero.. Tybalt completely fits the second definition. He is at odds with Romeo.
Mercutio is no villain, but he sure knows how to make people angry. I completely agree with this...and not only because Mercutio is one of my favorite of Shakespeare's Characters. I do not believe that Mercutio is a villain, though he is a trouble maker as you stated. (Answer #6). Mercutio may be a trouble maker, but he's definitely not a villain. I found villain defined as A wicked or evil person; a scoundrel. OR A dramatic or fictional character who is typically at odds with the hero.. Tybalt completely fits the second definition. He is at odds with Romeo.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I agree, Romeo is the Hero and Tybalt is the villain. While Romea made some very stupid mistakes, he did try to back down from Tybalt for Juliet. Tybalt had murder in his heart from the very beginning. If you wanted to write the essay from a different POV then most students, you could write it the opposite. 
In this essay I am writing to explain how Tybalt's character and attitude makes the end of Romeo and Juliet inevitable. Tybalt is partly responsible but Romeo is also partly responsible because he broke the law set down by the prince by killing Tybalt. I will use evidence from all three scenes to support my answer. How far do you think Friar Lawrence is to Blame for the Tragic Events ... This doesn't stop the fight though as Tybalt fatally wounds Mercutio from behind Romeo. The death of Mercutio builds up Romeo's anger and it is Romeo who kills Tybalt when he returns to brag about his killing of Mercutio.
On the surface because Tybalt is a Capulet, and Romeo is a Montague. All Capulets are supposed to hate the Montagues because of an ancient feud between the two families. In th … is specific case, Tybalt is mad at Romeo because Romeo crashed the Capulet party and wants to start a fight with him. He therefore calls him a villain, which is an insult, hoping to provoke Romeo. The irony is that Tybalt is not really a Capulet at all. He is related to Juliet's mother, not her father
When Tybalt stabbed Mercutio it says [Tybalt under Romeo's arm, thrusts Mercutio in and flies] this means he stabs Mercutio and then flees. Tybalt uses language in this scene and starts off very polite saying 'Good day a word with one of you,' this means there is a contrast to the way he speaks in Act 1. How far do you think Friar Lawrence is to Blame for the Tragic Events ... This doesn't stop the fight though as Tybalt fatally wounds Mercutio from behind Romeo. The death of Mercutio builds up Romeo's anger and it is Romeo who kills Tybalt when he returns to brag about his killing of Mercutio.
Tybalt is the main antagonist in William Shakespeare 's play Romeo and Juliet. He is Lady Capulet's nephew, Juliet 's short-tempered cousin, and Romeo 's rival. Tybalt shares the same name as the character Tibert/Tybalt the Prince of Cats in Reynard the Fox, a point of mockery in the play.
Tybalt is Juliet's cousin, i.e. a Capulet. After he kills Romeo's BFF, Mercutio, in a street brawl, Romeo mortally stabs him, which causes Romeo to be banished from Verona. You don't have to look far for Tybalt's motivation: testosterone. He's not deep, but he sure is handy with a sword