You can see how Savvas families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate. Find out where people with the family name Savvas lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records. View all Savvas ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Savvas ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.
You can use census records and voter lists to see where families with the Savva surname lived over the years. While the questions in census records vary from place to place, and year to year, you can generally find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, occupations, etc. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Savvas. Savvas is a male Greek name that used to be relatively common in Greece. The name Savvas comes from the Hebrew word sava meaning “old man”. According to a second opinion, it derives from the Turkish word “Sava” which means “war”. However, the Hebrew word is much older.
You can use census records and voter lists to see where families with the Savva surname lived over the years. While the questions in census records vary from place to place, and year to year, you can generally find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, occupations, etc.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Savvas birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Savvas ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Savvas ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.
Origin of name Savvas – Agios Savvas. Name Savvas refers to Agios Savvas (St Savvas), a man who came from Cappadocia and was the son of noble parents. Savvas adopted the Christian religion early in his life and decided to become a monk. The name Savvas comes from the Hebrew word sava meaning “old man”. According to a second opinion, it derives from the Turkish word “Sava” which means “war”. However, the Hebrew word is much older.
A given name, a patronymic name and a family name. A patronymic name is based on the name of one's father, grandfather, or earlier male ancestor. Russian male patronymic names are formed by adding the suffex-evich or-ovich, female patronymic names by adding the suffex-ovna or-evna. For example, in the name Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin, Boris is the given name, Nikolayevich the patronymic (his father's name is Nikolay) and Yeltsin is the family name. Savva is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Sa-vva. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 9405 in baby name popularity for boys with 8 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name.
Find out where people with the family name Savva lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
You are spiritually intense and can sting or charm. Your name brings love and new starts into life and attracts money. In business, you are the creator and promoter of original ideas and usually enjoy considerable financial success.You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. You know what you want and why you want it. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. To see these numbers, please, enter your FULL NAME