Congruent Triangles. When two triangles are congruent they will have exactly the same three sides and exactly the same three angles. The equal sides and angles may not be in the same position (if there is a turn or a flip), but they are there. is congruent to: The sides marked with one line are equal in length. Similarly for the sides marked with two lines. Also for the sides marked with three lines. The angles marked with one arc are equal in size. Similarly for the angles marked with two arcs. Also for the angles marked with three arcs.
Definition: Equal in size and shape. Two objects are congruent if they have the same dimensions and shape. Very loosely, you can think of it as meaning 'equal', but it has a very precise meaning that you should understand completely, especially for complex shapes such as polygons. Congruent polygons have an equal number of sides, and all the corresponding sides and angles are congruent. However, they can be in a different location, rotated or flipped over. So for example the two triangles shown on the right are congruent even though one is a mirror image of the other.
Yes, they are congruent because they are the same shape and size. It is also important for students to understand that shapes can be congruent if one is upside down and the other is right side up. The different positions of the shapes does not make objects not congruent. Practice with a few more items. Two shapes that are congruent are identical. In other words, it is impossible to tell two congruent items apart because they are exactly the same. To illustrate this, hold up two different colored pencils that are the same kind but different lengths.
Congruent-a term describing figures or objects that are the same shape and size. The meaning and definition indicated above are indicative not be used for medical and legal purposes. Source: http://engstrom.wikispaces.com/file/view/Glossary.doc. Source web site to visit: http://engstrom.wikispaces.com/. 
For shapes, it is an object with the same shape and size. Two shapes that are congruent are identical. In other words, it is impossible to tell two congruent items apart because they are exactly the same. To illustrate this, hold up two different colored pencils that are the same kind but different lengths.
See Congruent Line Segments. Two angles are congruent if they have the same measure. So if two separate angles have measures of 30° and 23° for example, they are not congruent because they have different measures. Congruent angles may lie in different orientations or positions. Congruent polygons have an equal number of sides, and all the corresponding sides and angles are congruent. However, they can be in a different location, rotated or flipped over. So for example the two triangles shown on the right are congruent even though one is a mirror image of the other.
Math Geometry Worksheets. Congruent polygons are the same size and shape. Similar polygons have the same shape, but can be different sizes. Click on the the core icon below specified worksheets to see connections to the Common Core Standards Initiative.
more ... The same shape and size. Two shapes are congruent when you can Turn, Flip and/or Slide one so it fits exactly on the other. In this example the shapes are congruent (you only need to flip one over and move it a little). Congruent. Search :: Index :: About :: Contact :: Contribute :: Cite This Page :: Privacy