Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs, also polyaromatic hydrocarbons) are hydrocarbons — organic compounds containing only carbon and hydrogen—that are composed of multiple aromatic rings (organic rings in which the electrons are delocalized). Pyrimidine, like other polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), the most abundant carbon-rich compounds found in the universe, may have been formed in red giants or in interstellar dust and gas clouds.
PAHs are neutral, nonpolar molecules; they are found in fossil fuels (oil and coal) and in tar deposits, and are produced, generally, when insufficient oxygen or other factors result in incomplete combustion of organic matter (e.g., in engines and incinerators, when biomass burns in forest fires, etc.). Pyrimidine, like other polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), the most abundant carbon-rich compounds found in the universe, may have been formed in red giants or in interstellar dust and gas clouds.
Some PAHs are manufactured. These pure PAHs usually exist as colorless, white, or pale yellow-green solids. PAHs are found in coal tar, crude oil, creosote, and roofing tar, but a few are used in medicines or to make dyes, plastics, and pesticides. 1 PAHs can break down by reacting with sunlight and other chemicals in the air, over a period of days to weeks. 2  PAHs enter water through discharges from industrial and wastewater treatment plants. 3  Most PAHs do not dissolve easily in water. 4  They stick to solid particles and settle to the bottoms of lakes or rivers.
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs). Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are a class of chemicals that occur naturally in coal, crude oil, and gasoline. They also are produced when coal, oil, gas, wood, garbage, and tobacco are burned. PAHs generated from these sources can bind to or form small particles in the air. High-temperature cooking will form PAHs in meat and in other foods.
PAHs are a group of chemicals that are formed during the incomplete burning of coal, oil, gas, wood, garbage, or other organic substances, such as tobacco and charbroiled meat. PAHs have also been found in other facilities where petroleum, petroleum products, or coal are used or where wood, cellulose, corn, or oil are burned. People living near waste sites containing PAHs may be exposed through contact with contaminated air, water, and soil.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are a group of over 100 different chemicals that are formed during the incomplete burning of coal, oil and gas, garbage, or other organic substances like tobacco or charbroiled meat. PAHs are usually found as a mixture containing two or more of these compounds, such as soot. 1 PAHs can break down by reacting with sunlight and other chemicals in the air, over a period of days to weeks. 2  PAHs enter water through discharges from industrial and wastewater treatment plants. 3  Most PAHs do not dissolve easily in water. 4  They stick to solid particles and settle to the bottoms of lakes or rivers.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are a group of chemicals that occur naturally in coal, crude oil, and gasoline. PAHs are also present in products made from fossil fuels, such as coal-tar pitch, creosote, and asphalt. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are made whenever substances are burned. PAHs are also found at former coal-gasification sites. Breathing smoke or coming into contact with contaminated soil exposes people to PAHs. Some PAHs may cause cancer and may affect the eyes, kidneys, and liver.
Barbecuing, smoking, or charring food over a fire greatly increases the amount of PAHs in the food. Other foods that may contain low levels of PAHs include roasted coffee, roasted peanuts, refined vegetable oil, grains, vegetables, and fruits. A variety of cosmetics and shampoos are made with coal tar and therefore contain PAHs. The PAH compound naphthalene is present in some mothballs. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are made whenever substances are burned. PAHs are also found at former coal-gasification sites. Breathing smoke or coming into contact with contaminated soil exposes people to PAHs. Some PAHs may cause cancer and may affect the eyes, kidneys, and liver.
A few PAHs are used in medicines and to make dyes, plastics, and pesticides. Others are contained in asphalt used in road construction. They can also be found in substances such as crude oil, coal, coal tar pitch, creosote, and roofing tar. They are found throughout the environment in the air, water, and soil. PAHs have also been found in other facilities where petroleum, petroleum products, or coal are used or where wood, cellulose, corn, or oil are burned. People living near waste sites containing PAHs may be exposed through contact with contaminated
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) are a group of chemicals that occur naturally in coal, crude oil and gasoline. PAHs also are present in products made from fossil fuels, such as coal-tar pitch, creosote and asphalt. Barbecuing, smoking or charring food over a fire greatly increases the amount of PAHs in the food. Other foods that may contain low levels of PAHs include roasted coffee, roasted peanuts, refined vegetable oil, grains, vegetables and fruits.