Travel and subsistence expenses describe the cost of spending on business travel, meals, hotels, sundry items such as laundry (though usually only on long trips) and similar ad hoc expenditures. 
Posted in Allowances. A subsistence allowance is where an employer may pay an employee a daily allowance for accommodation and meals during a period while the employee is out of town on business. The subsistence allowance to be included in taxable income of an employee is calculated as follows: 1  Subsistence allowance received less portion spent for business purposes equals the taxable allowance to be included in the employee’s taxable income. An employer must pay a subsistence allowance to an employee over and above the normal remuneration payable to the employee and cannot reduce the cash portion an employee’s salary with a subsistence allowance.
Military.com has launched a new app that allows you instantaneous access to information about your pay and allowances from your mobile device. Get the free app for Android or iOS. BAS is a continuation of the military tradition of providing room and board (or rations) as part of a servicemember's pay. Although BAS is meant to offset the cost your meals, it is important to note that BAS is not intended to cover the costs of meals for family members
1.4 The aim of the subsistence allowance and reimbursement of incidental expenses is not to: • Enable an educator/employee to entertain; • Compensate an educator/employee for any discomfort; and/or • Supplement an educator’s/employee’s salary. 1.2 Subsistence allowance (expenditure) is listed in Chapter I of the PAM as one of the measures not administered by the Minister of Education, which applies mutatis mutandis to educators as they apply to other employees of the state.
Since January 1, 2002 most enlisted members get full BAS, but they must pay for their own meals, even those provided by the government.*. Because BAS is intended to provide meals for the servicemember, the monthly rate is based on the price of food. Get the free app for Android or iOS. BAS is a continuation of the military tradition of providing room and board (or rations) as part of a servicemember's pay.
Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS). BAS is meant to offset costs for a member's meals. This allowance is based in the historic origins of the military in which the military provided room and board (or rations) as part of a member's pay. This allowance is not intended to offset the costs of meals for family members. Beginning on January 1 2002, all enlisted members get full BAS, but pay for their meals (including those provided by the government). This is the culmination of the BAS Reform transition period.
A subsistence allowance is paid each month during training and is based on the rate of attendance (full-time or part-time), the number of dependents, and the type of training. The charts shown below reflect the rates as of October 1, 2012. $62.34 $47.94 $31.99. Subsistence Allowance is paid at the following rates for Extended Evaluation programs: A subsistence allowance is paid each month during the period of enrollment in a rehabilitation facility when a veteran requires this service for the purpose of extended evaluation.
A type of payment that an employee can receive prior to the time that his or her actual pay from employment begins. Can also be a type of payment received by the employee of a company who has spent his or her own funds on a company related assignment and is being reimbursed by the company for those expenses. 
Allowances. 1  Subsistence allowance-is any allowance paid by the employer to the employee to cover accommodation, meals or incidentals costs where the employee is, by reason of the duties of his or her office or employment, obliged to spend at least one night away from his or her usual place of residence in the Republic. 