Ironman Triathlon. An Ironman Triathlon is one of a series of long-distance triathlon races organized by the World Triathlon Corporation (WTC) consisting of a 2.4-mile (3.86 km) swim, a 112-mile (180.25 km) bicycle ride and a marathon 26.2-mile (42.2 km) run, raced in that order and without a break. The race typically starts at 7:00 a.m.; the mandatory swim cut off for the 2.4-mile (3.9 km) swim is 9:20 a.m. (2 hours 20 minutes), the mandatory bike cut off time is 5:30 p.m. (8 hours 10 minutes), and the mandatory marathon cut off is midnight (6 hours 30 minutes).
Six-Time Ironman World Champion 2 of 9. Dave Scott at the 2007 Ironman World Championship. If you set a goal for yourself and are able to achieve it, you have won your race. Your goal can be to come in first, to improve your performance, or just finish the race; its up to you.. Ironman World Champion 8 of 9. World Triathlon Corp/Ironman. You put me in a race where there's a lot on the line, especially when people tell me 'you can't win', or 'you're too small', you tell me those things and I'll find a way to prove you wrong..
If you want to do an Ironman, the first step is the most important one: Pick a race and commit to it. Nothing lights a fire under your ass like the e-mail confirming your registration for an Ironman… and the 500-plus dollar receipt that comes with it. The 9 things that helped me do it. It was a series of bold choices, hasty mistakes, happy accidents, and – finally – focused planning which took me from couch potato to Ironman in just 20 months. Everyone has their own way of doing things when it comes to Ironman, and when you train for one, you’ll discover yours.
Lottery and Legacy programs. A mainstay in the history of IRONMAN, the IRONMAN Lottery began in 1983 thanks to the vision of IRONMAN co-founder John Collins as a way to provide athletes ranging in athletic ability the opportunity to be a part of the world's most challenging one-day endurance event. Considered the most challenging one-day sporting event in the world, the IRONMAN World Championship offers athletes of all abilities, ages, shapes and sizes the opportunity to test their limits.
I didn't even know what triathlon was before 2012, she says. You can do triathlon at any level...one of the most fun things is doing it as a relay with some friends.. Get Inspired caught up with Minchin in Loughborough where she met up with some members of the GB Para-triathlon team to pick up some training tips. Media requires JavaScript to play. Louise Minchin had no idea that a fun physical competition on BBC Breakfast would change her life. In an Olympic-inspired contest back in 2012, the BBC Breakfast presenters were challenged to a cycling competition around the velodrome at the National Cycling Centre in Manchester. It was here that Minchin discovered her competitive edge
The name Ironman Triathlon is also associated with the original Ironman triathlon which is now the Ironman World Championship. Held in Kailua-Kona, the world championship has been held annually in Hawaii since 1978 (with an additional race in 1982) and is preceded by a series of qualifying Ironman events. The race typically starts at 7:00 a.m.; the mandatory swim cut off for the 2.4-mile (3.9 km) swim is 9:20 a.m. (2 hours 20 minutes), the mandatory bike cut off time is 5:30 p.m. (8 hours 10 minutes), and the mandatory marathon cut off is midnight (6 hours 30 minutes).
I love this sport, and have continued to train and race since last year’s Ironman. If there’s one thing I learned in going from couch potato to Ironman in 20 months, it’s that 20 months can change a lot. And I enjoyed every single second of it. I still do. I don’t mean to oversimplify the sport. The 9 things that helped me do it. It was a series of bold choices, hasty mistakes, happy accidents, and – finally – focused planning which took me from couch potato to Ironman in just 20 months. Everyone has their own way of doing things when it comes to Ironman, and when you train for one, you’ll discover yours.
Swim, Bike and Run Training Plan. Once you have built a base, you can start training for all three sports. Typically for a sprint triathlon, you only need to train twice a week in each of the three sports. That is 6 days with one rest day. OR you can have one day where you do two events, say a swim then a run. Then four others days where you just do one training session per day. That will give you two days off per week (my favorite). To make your training schedule, follow the Rules (1 and 2), and make a plan where you swim, bike and run two times/week.