Report Abuse. The Largest object in the Solar System would be The Sun. The Sun is About 870,000 Miles in Diameter. The Sun can fit the Hole Solar System inside itself. The Largest Planet in the Solar System is Jupiter. 
This is a partial list of Solar System objects by size, arranged in descending order of mean volumetric radius, and subdivided into several size classes. These lists can also be sorted according to an object's mass and, for the largest objects, volume, density and surface gravity, insofar as these values are available. 
The biggest planet in our solar system is Jupiter.  Jupiter is the fifth planet from the sun and the largest in the  solar system. Named after the ruler of the gods in Roman … mythology,  Jupiter has 1400 times the volume of Earth but only 318 times more  mass. Mars has the largest volcano in the solar system. It is called Olympus Mons, or Mount Olympus. At 375 miles (600 km) across, it would cover most of England, and at 16 miles (2 … 6 km) high, it is 3 times taller than Mount Everest. In the center is a huge, sunken crater that is 26 miles (90 km) across.
The Sun is the largest object within the Solar System-it makes up more than 95% of all the matter! It is because of the Sun's large size that the rest of the objects within the Solar System orbit around it. The Sun is very, very hot. Sol is the Roman name for Sun. The Sun is the largest object within the Solar System-it makes up more than 95% of all the matter! It is because of the Sun's large size that the rest of the objects within the Solar System orbit around it. The Sun is very, very hot. It is 10,000 degrees Fahrenheit on its surface.
Report Abuse. The sun is the most massive object in the solar system (by far), but largest could mean a great many things. Taken collectively, the asteroid belt is much larger than the sun. For that matter, the Oort Cloud is millions of times larger than that. 
Gas Giant. Fifth planet from the Sun, first of the Outer Planets. By Jove, it's Jupiter ! Yes, second in our chart is the Solar System's largest planet and the first of the Gas Giants. Jupiter is a world made mostly of gas (hydrogen and helium if you're interested), hence the reason why it's called a Gas Giant. Twenty-first moon in orbit of the planet. The tenth largest object in the Solar System is Titan, the Solar System's second largest moon which orbits the Solar System's second largest planet, Saturn. What makes Titan unique is that it is the only moon in the Solar System to possess an atmosphere.
Jupiter is the biggest planet in our Solar System.    It is the largest by mass, volume, and surface area among other  statistics. Here are the critical measurements o … f Jupiter as well  as a few other interesting facts about the planet and other bodies  in the Jovian system. The largest planet in our solar system is Jupiter. is 90,000 miles(140,000 km) in diameter. One day on Jupiter is 9 hours and 25 minutes long and a year is 12 Earth years long … because it is so big but it's Jupiter is very quick specially for Jupiter.
The Sun is in the center of the solar system. Our solar system is always in motion. Eight known planets and their moons, along with comets, asteroids, and other space objects orbit the Sun. The Sun is the biggest object in our solar system. It contains more than 99% of the solar system's mass. Astronomers think the solar system is more than 4 billion years old. Astronomers are now finding new objects far, far from the Sun which they call dwarf planets. 
The Sun is the largest. Jupiter is the next biggest object in the solar system. Then again, if you want to get really technical, the largest thing in the solar system BY FAR would be Jupiter's magnetosphere, which extends a radius of several million miles and nearly reaches Saturn's orbit. Mars has the largest volcano in the solar system. It is called Olympus Mons, or Mount Olympus. At 375 miles (600 km) across, it would cover most of England, and at 16 miles (2 … 6 km) high, it is 3 times taller than Mount Everest. In the center is a huge, sunken crater that is 26 miles (90 km) across.
The sun is by far the largest object in our solar system. It has a diameter of about 1,392,684 km (865,374 mi), which is approximately 109 times larger than Earth, and its mass (1.989×1030 kilograms, approximately 330,000 times the mass of Earth) accounts for about 99.86% of the total mass of the Solar System. The largest planet in our solar system is Jupiter. is 90,000 miles(140,000 km) in diameter. One day on Jupiter is 9 hours and 25 minutes long and a year is 12 Earth years long … because it is so big but it's Jupiter is very quick specially for Jupiter.