The sun's photosphere is often mistakenly referred to as the surface of the sun. In reality however, the sun's photosphere is only a liquid-like plasma layer made of neon that covers the actual surface of the sun. 
Share to: A sunspot is an area on the Sun's surface (the photosphere) that is affected by intense magnetic activity, which inhibits convection, thus reducing the surface temperature i … n that region. Even though sunspots are still very bright and hot they appear darker because they are cooler than the surrounding area. The photosphere is the visible layer of the sun (or any other star). Light energy and photons and other solar radiation are given off and escape the sun from the photosphere.
The Photosphere and Sunspots. The visible glowing surface of the sun is more appropriately called the photosphere, and it has a darker edge, called a 'limb.' It's darker because the temperature in the sun's photosphere decreases outward. Neither the photosphere nor the interior of the sun is solid-it's gaseous instead. A sunspot is a relatively dark spot on the sun with a lower temperature than the other parts of the photosphere. Sunspots occur in places where the magnetic field in the photosphere is many times stronger than average.
The photosphere is believed to have a thickness of approximately 400 kilometers and is where the transparency of the Sun changes from 100% down to 0%. At a depth of 200 km into the photosphere we are still able to see 89% of the light that is emitted. At a depth of 300 km we see only 64%. The outer part of the Sun's photosphere has a temperature of 4465 K, and this is usually the quoted figure when people talk about the 'surface temperature' of the Sun. As you move through the 400 kilometers, this temperature gradually increases until it reaches 7610 K at the innermost part of the photosphere.
The atmosphere of the sun is composed of several layers, mainly the photosphere, the chromosphere and the corona. It's in these outer layers that the sun's energy, which has bubbled up from the sun's interior layers, is detected as sunlight. The lowest layer of the sun's atmosphere is the photosphere. It is about 300 miles (500 kilometers) thick. This layer is where the sun's energy is released as light. Because of the distance from the sun to Earth, light reaches our planet in about eight minutes
The chromosphere (literally, sphere of color) is the second of the three main layers in the Sun 's atmosphere and is roughly 2,000 kilometers deep. It sits just above the photosphere and just below the solar transition region. The density of the chromosphere is very low, it being only 10 −4 times that of the photosphere, the layer just below it, and 10 −8 times that of the atmosphere of Earth. This makes the chromosphere normally invisible and it can be seen only during a total eclipse, where its reddish color is revealed.
The Sun's outer layer is called the corona and is the source of solar flares. It is hard to define because the pressure is so low -- it's practically like still being in space. Underneath this is the 2000-km-deep chromosphere, and beneath that is the photosphere. The outer part of the Sun's photosphere has a temperature of 4465 K, and this is usually the quoted figure when people talk about the 'surface temperature' of the Sun. As you move through the 400 kilometers, this temperature gradually increases until it reaches 7610 K at the innermost part of
The photosphere is a star's outer shell from which light is radiated. The term itself is derived from Ancient Greek roots, φῶς, φωτός/ phos, photos meaning light and σφαῖρα/ sphaira meaning sphere, in reference to the fact that it is a spherical surface that is perceived to emit light. The Sun's visible atmosphere has other layers above the photosphere: the 2,000 kilometer-deep chromosphere (typically observed by filtered light, for example H-alpha) lies just between the photosphere and the much hotter but more tenuous corona. Other surface features on the photosphere are solar flares and sunspots.
A sunspot is simply a region on the surface of the suncalled the photospherethat is temporarily cool and dark compared to surrounding regions. 
Click on image for larger version. The photosphere is the visible surface of the Sun that we are most familiar with. Since the Sun is a ball of gas, this is not a solid surface but is actually a layer about 100 km thick (very, very, thin compared to the 700,000 km radius of the Sun).