The first clutch of 6-7 eggs is laid late in March or early in April. Both adults incubate the eggs, and the chicks hatch 19-21 days later. Each chick can eat 12-18 fish a day, and they are fed in rotation once a chick is fed, it moves to the back of the nest to digest its meal, causing the others to move forward. 
Incubation is a process by which birds hatch their eggs, and to the development of the embryo within the egg. Incubation period is very critical and maintaining constant temperature required for its development over a specific period is a vital factor of incubation. The females will lay their fertilized eggs in a single communal nest, a simple pit, 30 to 60 centimetres (12–24 in) deep and 3 metres (9.8 ft) wide, scraped in the ground by the male. The eggs are incubated by the females by day and by the males by night.
Turning. Turning is essential during the first 14 days of incubation and should be continued until 3 days prior to the eggs expected hatch day. If hand turning, always turn the eggs an uneven number of times a day, so the eggs do not spent two nights in a row in the same position. Related tutorials: How-To #2: The First 60 Days. General Hints. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began.
In perhaps the best known example, the platypus, the eggs develop in utero for about 28 days, with only about 10 days of external incubation (in contrast to a chicken egg, which spends about one day in tract and 21 days externally). After laying her eggs, the female curls around them. Some species begin incubation with the first egg, causing the young to hatch at different times; others begin after laying the second egg, so that the third chick will be smaller and more vulnerable to food shortages. Some start to incubate after the last egg of the clutch, causing the young to hatch simultaneously.
Incubation Period of Other Species. One of the miracles of nature is the transformation of the egg into the chick. In a brief three weeks of incubation, a fully developed chick grows from a single cell and emerges from a seemingly lifeless egg. Not every avian eggs hatch in 21 days. See the chart below for incubation periods for other fowl. The duckbill platypus is the only mammal that lays eggs and they have an incubation period of 12 days. Never incubate the eggs of wild birds; these chicks will not live without their mother's care if they do hatch. Incubation Periods (species and days required to hatch)
The swan's nest is on the ground near water and about a metre across. Unlike many other ducks and geese the male helps with the nest construction. Average egg size (for the mute swan) is 113×74 mm, weighing 340 g, in a clutch size of 4 to 7. The incubation period is around 34–45 days for swan. The females will lay their fertilized eggs in a single communal nest, a simple pit, 30 to 60 centimetres (12–24 in) deep and 3 metres (9.8 ft) wide, scraped in the ground by the male. The eggs are incubated by the females by day and by the males by night.
Chicks will start to pip the shell around the 19th day. All chicks which are going to hatch should be out of their shells by the 21st day. If the eggs were chilled or you ran into operational difficulties during the incubation period, the hatch may be delayed. Chicks that hatch beyond the 22nd day are usually not healthy, vigorous ones. When most of the eggs are hatched, lower the temperature to approximately 95 F (35 C). It may slow up development of the chick, though, depending upon how much the egg is cooled. Generally, if the eggs are removed from the incubator two or three times for a period of no more than 15 minutes each, such cooling will make little difference in the total incubation time required for hatching.
It takes 21 days on average for an egg to hatch once incubation begins. Before placing the eggs inside, turn on the heat source and measure the temperature and humidity over a 24-hour period, making adjustments as necessary to create the optimal environment. 