Dachau (. [ˈdaxaʊ]) is a town in Upper Bavaria, in the southern part of Germany. It is a major district town—a Grosse Große —kreisstadt of the administrative region Of Upper, bavaria about 20 (kilometres 12) miles-north west Of. munich Dachau was founded in the 9th century. It was home to many artists during the late 19th and early 20th centuries; well-known author and editor Ludwig Thoma lived here for two years.
Dachau is in Germany, about 20km northwest of the city of Munich. It was the site of a well known Nazi concentration camp which was in operation from March 1933 till April 1945. As far as I know Dachau was designed as a concentration camp (not primarily a camp for industrialized murder but a slave labor camp) opposed to Auschwitz as a death camp where … the victims where systematically murdered right after selections on the ramp upon arrival.
Dachau. Dachau, [1] is a city of about 43,000 citizens in Bavaria, Germany and has a history of more than 1,200 years. In former times Dachau had always been a retreat for Bavarian kings, dukes and nobility, the castle and the surrounding gardens offering a staggering view on the Alps and Munich, weather permitting. Dachau became a town famous for its impressionist painters from the second half of the 19th century on. With the advent of the Nazi regime, Dachau in 1933 was chosen as site for the very first Nazi concentration camp.
Historical picture of the entrance to the prisoners' camp. On March 22, 1933, a few weeks after Adolf Hitler had been appointed Reich Chancellor, a concentration camp for political prisoners was set up in Dachau. This camp served as a model for all later concentration camps and as a school of violence for the SS men under whose command it stood. 
Dachau Altstadt. Dachau is a city with about 44,800 citizens in Upper Bavaria, Germany and has a history of more than 1,200 years, but best known for being the location of the very first Nazi concentration camp. 
The first concentration camp was Dachau, established on March 20, 1933 in the southern German town of the same name (10 miles northwest of Munich). 
1 Dachau Concentration Camp memorial Site: Dachau is best known for its proximity to the relatively well-preserved site of the infamous Dachau concentration camp, the first large-scale concentration camp in Germany, converted from an old gunpowder factory by the Nazi regime in 1933. Dachau was founded in the 9th century. It was home to many artists during the late 19th and early 20th centuries; well-known author and editor Ludwig Thoma lived here for two years.
The Dachau camp system grew to include nearly 100 sub-camps, which were mostly work camps or Arbeitskommandos, and were located throughout southern Germany and Austria. The camps were liberated by U.S. forces on 29 April 1945. The prisoners of Dachau concentration camp originally were to serve as forced labor for a munition factory, and to expand the camp. It was used as a training center for SS guards and was a model for other concentration camps The camp was about 300 m × 600 m (1,000 ft × 2,000 ft) in rectangular shape.
[ˈdaxaʊ]) was the first of the Nazi concentration camps opened in Germany, intended to hold political prisoners. It is located on the grounds of an abandoned munitions factory southeast of the medieval town of Dachau, about 16 km (10 mi) northwest of Munich in the state of Bavaria, in southern Germany. The prisoners of Dachau concentration camp originally were to serve as forced labor for a munition factory, and to expand the camp. It was used as a training center for SS guards and was a model for other concentration camps The camp was about 300 m × 600 m (1,000 ft × 2,000 ft) in rectangular shape.
1 Dachau, Germany Dachau, located in southern Germany, is a city with a dark past. 2  Once a booming artistic town founded in the eighth century, it became known for the Dachau concentration camp…. 3  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history. As far as I know Dachau was designed as a concentration camp (not primarily a camp for industrialized murder but a slave labor camp) opposed to Auschwitz as a death camp where … the victims where systematically murdered right after selections on the ramp upon arrival.