Tolterodine reduces spasms of the bladder muscles. Tolterodine is used to treat overactive bladder with symptoms of urinary frequency, urgency, and incontinence. Tolterodine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not take this medication if you are allergic to tolterodine or fesoterodine (Toviaz), if you have untreated or uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma, or if you have a blockage of the urinary tract, stomach, or intestines. Before you take tolterodine, tell your doctor if you have kidney or liver disease, glaucoma, myasthenia gravis, or a personal or family history of Long QT syndrome.. Do not crush, chew, break, or open a controlled-release capsule. Swallow it whole
By relaxing the muscles in the bladder, tolterodine improves your ability to control your urination. It helps to reduce leaking of urine, feelings of needing to urinate right away, and frequent trips to the bathroom. This medication belongs to the class of drugs known as antispasmodics. 
Tolterodine is prescribed for people who have difficulty controlling their bladders. It is given to treat symptoms such as urgency, frequency and incontinence. Urinary urgency occurs when you have a sudden and urgent need to pass urine. 1 Take tolterodine exactly as your doctor tells you to. 2  Your dose will be printed on the label of the pack to remind you about what the doctor said to you. 3  If you have been given tablets, you will be asked to take one tablet twice daily.
The empirical formula of tolterodine tartrate is C 26 H 37 NO 7 ,. Its structure is: Tolterodine tartrate is a white, crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 475.6. The pKa value is 9.87 and the solubility in water is 12 mg/mL. It is soluble in methanol, slightly soluble in ethanol, and practically insoluble in toluene. Stop using tolterodine and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  chest pain, fast or uneven heart rate; 2  confusion, hallucinations; 3  urinating less than usual or not at all; or. 4  painful or difficult urination.
Tolterodine is used for the treatment of the symptoms of overactive bladder syndrome. If you have overactive bladder syndrome, you may find that: 1  you are unable to control urination. 2  you need to rush to the toilet with no advance warning and/or go to the toilet frequently. Your doctor will tell you how long your treatment with Tolterodine tablets will last. Do not stop treatment early because you do not see an immediate effect. Your bladder will need some time to adapt. Finish the course of tablets prescribed by your doctor. If you have not noticed any effect by then, talk to
Tolterodine (Detrol, Detrusitol) is an antimuscarinic drug that is used for symptomatic treatment of urinary incontinence. It is marketed by Pfizer in Canada and the United States by its brand name Detrol. In Egypt it is also found under the trade names Tolterodine by Sabaa and Incont L.A. by Adwia. Detrusor overactivity (DO, contraction of the muscular bladder wall) is the most common form of UI in older adults. It is characterized by uninhibited bladder contractions causing an uncontrollable urge to void. Urinary frequency, urge incontinence and nocturnal incontinence occur.
Tolterodine comes as a tablet and an extended-release (long-acting) capsule to take by mouth. The tablet is usually taken twice a day. The extended-release capsule is usually taken once a day with liquids. 
Tolterodine is used to treat symptoms of an overactive bladder, such as incontinence (loss of bladder control) or a frequent need to urinate. Tolterodine belongs to the group of medicines called antispasmodics. It helps decrease muscle spasms of the bladder and the frequent urge to urinate caused by these spasms. 