The history, meaning and origin of first and last names come from the Dictionary of First Names and the Dictionary of American Family Names respectively. Last name histories from SurnameDB are also included on ~50,000 names for additional information and context. 5. Of uncertain origin, probably Germanic, from a short form of various female compound names containing the element av (of uncertain meaning). St Ava or Avia was a 9th-century abbess of Dinart in Hainault and a member of the Frankish royal family.
45 Articles in: Surname Meaning | Surname Origin-Find the Meaning of Your Surname. View More. Learn how to find the meaning of your last name and trace your surname's origin back through history. Describes the different ways in which surnames developed and tips for tracing last name meanings and origins. Visser Surname Meaning & Origin. Share. Learn the origins and meanings of the popular Irish last name Boyle and its variations such as Boyles, O Boyle, O Baoighill and O Baoill, plus learn about the crest of Clan Boyle and how to research your own Boyle last name.
Find the meaning and origin of your last name in this free online dictionary of surname meanings, including surnames of English, Irish, German, French, Italian, Spanish, Polish, English, Canadian, Australian, and Jewish origin. Visser Surname Meaning & Origin. Share. Learn the origins and meanings of the popular Irish last name Boyle and its variations such as Boyles, O Boyle, O Baoighill and O Baoill, plus learn about the crest of Clan Boyle and how to research your own Boyle last name.
The use of a surname was originally adopted in order to distinguish two individuals with the same first name, and, at first, these last names were not passed down to the next generation. In Europe, the first surnames were first used about eight hundred years ago. 1 Scandinavian countries, at first, used non-inheritable patronymic names. 2  Each succeeding generation would have a different last name based on his (or her) father's first name. 3  Because of this tradition, Scandinavian countries became standardized surnames much later than other European names.
This unusual and interesting surname is of Old Welsh origin, and derives from the Old Welsh personal name Ris, Welsh Rhys meaning ardour. The popularity of the name is borne out by the number of surnames it has generated. The personal name appears as Hris (1052) in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle of Cambridgeshire, as Rees (1086) in the Domesday Book, and as Res (1198) in the Pipe Rolls of Shropshire.
To learn more about your last name meaning and ethnic origin, just browse to the appropriate letter in the Surname Meanings and Origins Glossary for your last name. Plus, surname meanings for the 100 most popular U.S. surnames as well. When searching for the origin or etymology of your surname it is also important to consider that your last name may not have always been spelled the way that it is today.
Surname Meanings & Origins. Learn about the origin of your surname, the history and meaning of your surname, if your surname is common and where it is common, and the how and why of name changes and variant spellings. Visser Surname Meaning & Origin. Share. Learn the origins and meanings of the popular Irish last name Boyle and its variations such as Boyles, O Boyle, O Baoighill and O Baoill, plus learn about the crest of Clan Boyle and how to research your own Boyle last name.
Biblical name, from Hebrew Yaakov. This was borne by perhaps the most important of all the patriarchs in the Book of Genesis. Jacob was the father of twelve sons, who gave their names to the twelve tribes of Israel. He was the son of Isaac and Rebecca and twin brother of Esau. 5. Of uncertain origin, probably Germanic, from a short form of various female compound names containing the element av (of uncertain meaning). St Ava or Avia was a 9th-century abbess of Dinart in Hainault and a member of the Frankish royal family.