Darius Name Meaning. French: from the Late Latin personal name Darius, Greek Dareios, which was borne by various kings of ancient Persia, including Darius I (522–486 bc). The ancient Persian form of the name was Darayavahush, meaning ‘possessor’, from daraya(miy) ‘possess’, ‘maintain’ + vahu ‘good’, ‘well’
The name Darius is an Egyptian baby name. In Egyptian the meaning of the name Darius is: Name of a pharaoh. American Meaning: The name Darius is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Darius is: Name of a pharaoh. Greek Meaning: The name Darius is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Darius is: Rich; wealthy. Biblical Meaning: The name Darius is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Darius is: He that informs himself. Persian Meaning: The name Darius is a Persian baby name. In Persian the meaning of the name Darius is: Preserver; Darius the Mede assumed kingship of Babylon after its conquest by Cyrus.
Darius is a male given name. Etymologically it is the English transliteration of the Persian name Dariush, meaning he possesses or rich and kingly. 
Hello, Guest. Darius is a historic name via Emperor Darius the Great, a key figure in ancient Persian history, and several other Persian kings. His name today has an appealingly artistic image, which might well be found on a concert program or gallery announcement. Among its cultural inspirations is composer Darius Milhaud.
Origin of the name Darius: A borrowing from the Latin, Darius is an old name derived from the Greek Dareios, which is of uncertain origin. It is thought to ultimately be derived from Darayavahush, the name of an ancient Persian king. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Meaning & History. Roman form of δαρειος (Dareios) , which was the Greek form of the Persian name Dārayavahush, which was composed of the elements daraya dâraya to possess and vahu. good
Etymology & Historical Origin-Darius. Darius is from the Greek masculine name Dareios which is a transliteration of a Persian name. It is thought to be derived from Dārayavahush (the name of several Persian kings), from the elements “daraya” (dâraya to) possess “and” (vahu). good
Darius /dar-ius/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced da-RYE-us, DARE-ee-us. It is of Greek and Persian origin, and the meaning of Darius is maintains possessions well. From Dareios, originally a version of the name of various ancient Persian kings. The original form of the name is Darayavahush. Historical: Darius (in Persian, Dariush) the Great assumed the kingship of Babylon after its conquest by Cyrus in fifth century BC. He was a renowned king also known as Darius the Great. Also the name of an obscure saint who was martyred at Nicaea.
Meaning & History. Roman form of δαρειος (Dareios) , which was the Greek form of the Persian name Dārayavahush, which was composed of the elements daraya dâraya to possess and vahu. Good three ancient kings Of persia bore this, name Including darius The great who Invaded greece but was defeated in The battle Of. marathon Roman form of δαρειος (Dareios) , which was the Greek form of the Persian name Dārayavahush, which was composed of the elements daraya dâraya to possess and vahu. good