Jack, it's sort of difficult to explain but I'll try. At Southwest the ramp is a union job. The pay is on a set scale so regardless of your merits, your pay increases a certain amount each year. A ramp agent begins at a bit over $11 an hour and ends up at $26 an hour. As far as being promoted to supervisor.
(United States). Ramp Agents in the United States can expect wages of $11.10 per hour on average. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $8.75 per hour and $20.07. Compensation for this group is mainly affected by experience level, but the specific employer and geographic location are influential factors as well. Median compensation in the five-to-10 year group, however, is higher at approximately $29K. Ramp Agents bring in $44K after working for 10 to 20 years. People who have worked for more than 20 years report a median income of $45K, which is barely higher than the median for folks with 10 to 20 years of experience.
The average salary of airline ramp agents in the United States ranges from $10 an hour to $16 an hour, not including benefits, according to GlassDoor, a website that provides salary information on various professions. Ramp agents are often offered travel benefits as well. Pay Varies by Airline. At the low end of the spectrum, U.S. Airways' ramp agents earn an average of $9.84 an hour. GlassDoor reports that Federal Express, a package delivery company, offers average pay of $16.15 an hour. The average wage at Delta Air Lines is $10.52 an hour; at Continental Airlines it is $13.57 an hour
A day in the life of me, a Southwest Airlines Ramp Agent at SFO. This was my first project assignment, in my film editing class at Napa Valley College. I would have liked to include a little more of my life outside of work, but we had to keep the video short. This was shot entirely with a GoPro Hero 2 camera. 
Ramp Agent Pay. A ramp agent's starting pay is normally entry level, ranging from minimum wage to approximately $9 hourly. Ramp agents working directly for airlines, though, earn retirement and health benefits plus pay increases over time as they become more experienced. On average, hourly pay for ramp agents runs from $12 up to $18 for more senior agents. 
Popular Employer Salaries for Ramp Agent. Ramp Agents seeking a sizable paycheck can earn the most at Delta Air Lines Inc, where the median salary comes to $41K, though the large pay difference between employees at the top ($21K) and those starting out ($47K) creates a rather diverse pay scale. Median compensation in the five-to-10 year group, however, is higher at approximately $29K. Ramp Agents bring in $44K after working for 10 to 20 years. People who have worked for more than 20 years report a median income of $45K, which is barely higher than the median for folks with 10 to 20 years of experience.
Being a ramp agent for Southwest is not the typical entry level ramp rat job that it is with many of the other airlines. They have very restrictive hiring criteria, and they expect you to WORK. Southwest turns their flights in 25 minutes flat. The pay is on a set scale so regardless of your merits, your pay increases a certain amount each year. A ramp agent begins at a bit over $11 an hour and ends up at $26 an hour. As far as being promoted to supervisor.
A ramp agent at the airport assists the airplane coming into the gate (Most of them are aircraft mechanics). They also help push the airplane out to a certain distance from the gate (when the plane leaves for take off). Ramp agents also help with baggage loading and unloading. 