The ring around the yolk of a hard-boiled egg is sometimes caused by a chemical reaction from sulfur and iron, which is a natural reaction. The sulfur, from the egg white, and iron, from the yolk, form ferrous sulfide on the surface of the yolk. If you have boiled a lot of eggs, then you may have noticed that every once in a while you get a green ring around the yolk. The ring may even, at times, look gray. Although the ring can be ugly, it is safe to eat. However, if the discoloration bothers you, keep in mind that it is common and easy to fix.
A: The green ring around the yolk of a hard cooked egg happens because hydrogen in the egg white combines with sulfur in the yolk. The cause is most often related to boiling the eggs too hard for too long. The green ring can also be caused by a high amount of iron in the cooking water. 
A greenish-gray ring may appear around a hard-cooked egg yolk. It's unsightly, but harmless. The ring is caused by a chemical reaction involving sulfur (from the egg white) and iron (from the egg yolk), which naturally react to form ferrous sulfide at the surface of the yolk. 
1 GREEN --The greenish ring around a hard-boiled egg yolk is due to an iron and sulfur compound that forms when eggs are overcooked, not cooled quickly, or are prepared with water that is high in iron. 2  Concentric green rings inside a cooked yolk are probably formed because the hen's feed or water contained iron. 
A green ring around hard-boiled egg yolks is the result of sulfur and iron compounds in the egg reacting at the surface of the yolk. The greenish color may occur when you overcook eggs or when there is a high amount of iron in the cooking water. 
Here's what people need to know about the gross green ring around the yolk of hard boiled eggs: it's not the egg's fault -- it's yours. And, it doesn't have to happen. When a hard boiled egg is cut open to reveal a greenish, blackish ring surrounding the yolk of an egg, it's a sign that the egg wasn't cooked properly. 1 First, cook your eggs in a saucepan that's large enough to hold the eggs in a single layer. 2  Second, cover the eggs with water, bring to a boil, then turn off the heat. 3  Put a lid on the saucepan. 4  Let the eggs sit in the boiled water for 15 minutes. 5  Run cold water on them to stop them from cooking any further. 6  That's it.
Water. Most of the time, the green ring around the yolk is caused by overcooking, which is easy to fix. However, the green ring can also be caused by too much iron in the cooking water. If you think that this is the problem with your eggs, then simply use bottled water when boiling eggs. If you have boiled a lot of eggs, then you may have noticed that every once in a while you get a green ring around the yolk. The ring may even, at times, look gray. Although the ring can be ugly, it is safe to eat. However, if the discoloration bothers you, keep in mind that it is common and easy to fix.
Dear Heloise: What causes the dark-green or gray ring around the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and how do you prevent this from happening? Much of the time, this seems to happen with eggs that I boil. Margaret, we checked with our friends at the American Egg Board, and here is what they had to say: When you cook eggs at too high a temperature or for too long at a low temperature, the surface of the yolks may turn gray-green.. The dark ring around the yolk is ugly but safe to eat.
Here's a look at the chemistry behind why this happens. Answer: The green ring forms when you overheat the egg, causing hydrogen and sulfur in the egg white to react and form hydrogen sulfide gas. The hydrogen sulfide reacts with iron in the egg yolk to form a grayish-green compound where the white and yolk meet. 