A power of attorney is a written legal document that authorizes (allows) another person to act on your behalf in matters of finance, property, business, or legal affairs. In this written document, you are known as the principal and the person you authorize to act on your behalf is known as the agent or attorney-in-fact.
Appointment of Agents. Page Content. Where a person is unable to collect their payment or manage their financial affairs a person may be appointed as their agent. An agent can be appointed on a temporary or on a long-term basis, to collect payments or act on behalf of the customer. The Department may cancel an agency arrangement at any time where it has reason to believe that the arrangement is not working satisfactorily.
An adult can only appoint an agent under a power of attorney if the adult is competent to understand the power of attorney document. However, even if an adult completes the powers of attorney and living will, he or she could still be subject to a guardianship proceeding.
If you are the parent, legal custodian, or legal guardian of a child or children, you can appoint a temporary agent who will have the power to make decisions for the child(ren) for a period not longer than 60 days.
You can appoint anyone you would like as your agent, but most people appoint a close family member or friend. For example, husbands and wives may name each other as attorney-in-fact, and also name a child in case their spouse is unable to carry out the responsibilities of an agent.
A temporary agent can be appointed for a short period of time, usually no longer than three weeks, where a person is unable to collect their payment at a post office. A “ Temporary Agent ” form, which is only available at the post office, should be completed by the customer.
In your durable power of attorney you can name one or. more agents (technically called attorneys in fact) to step in and act for you on legal and financial matters in the even of incapacity.
A. Yes. You may appoint multiple Agents. If you appoint two or more Agents, you must decide whether they must act together in making decisions involving your affairs, or whether each can act separately. There are advantages and disadvantages to both forms of appointment.