Plus it may help my husband in negotiations if the salary is not as much as we had hoped for. I had a job with a staffing agency and I made $10, they charged $15.00. I also worked at another place for $10 and they charged $14.00. I understand staffing agencies may charge double what the employee hourly salary is. However I don't know how realistic it is to go from making $10 to $20 an hour, or whatever the salary rate the employer is charging. 
Best Answer: A staffing agency in the US should not be charging a fee! They charge the employer 15%-30% of the annual salary to find people but nothing to the employee. For many years agencies would charge a prospective employee a finders fee to find them a position with a reputable company. Times have changed and so have most staffing agencies. The tides have changed in a way that there are now more people looking for jobs and careers than there are companies looking.
How to Charge for Your Staffing Company. Staffing companies that have figured out the secret formula behind charging for their staffing services have reported annual earnings ranging from $750,000 on the low end to more than $15 million dollars on the high end, according to Entrepreneur magazine. Chron.com Local Directory. Staffing companies that have figured out the secret formula behind charging for their staffing services have reported annual earnings ranging from $750,000 on the low end to more than $15 million dollars on the high end, according to Entrepreneur magazine.
In a direct hire, staffing firms charge anywhere from 20 to 50 percent of the employee’s annual salary as their fee for securing the right candidate for the job. For the most part, staffing firms work with employers to find the best fee schedule to meet their needs. Hourly Fees and One-Time Fees. The staffing firm then pays the employee a percentage of that hourly fee. For example, the company pays $25 per hour and the employee gets $15 of that per hour from the staffing firm.
1 The typical fee for employers using a temp agency is 12-50% of the employee's hourly rate. 2  For example, if an employee earns $10 per hour from the temp agency, and the agency's markup is 50%, the employer will pay an extra $5 per hour to the temp agency for a total of $15 per hour. 1 Some large organizations have in-house temporary agencies which apply similar fees for their services. 2  For example, the University of Washington charges a 29% markup, with department's paying $18.06 per hour for a temporary employee who actually earns $14 per hour.
1 For example, if an employee earns $10 per hour from the temp agency, and the agency's markup is 50%, the employer will pay an extra $5 per hour to the temp agency for a total of $15 per hour. 2  Some large organizations have in-house temporary agencies which apply similar fees for their services. 1 Some large organizations have in-house temporary agencies which apply similar fees for their services. 2  For example, the University of Washington charges a 29% markup, with department's paying $18.06 per hour for a temporary employee who actually earns $14 per hour.
The average rate to hire a temp worker ranges between 25 and 100 percent of the employee's salary. A temp agency may charge around 150 percent of the worker's salary if the client requires someone with specialized technical skills. Finding Out the Fee Rate. Temporary staffing agencies and their business clients typically do not inform employees about how much the client actually pays the staffing agency for the employee's services, according to TechRepublic.