esm203. I've been waking up every morning with a weird body odor. It fills up my entire room so i have to sleep with the windows open. This started when i was in 6th grade(10 years old) and now i'm 19 years old, so it's been about 9 years since this has been happening. It's really frustrating and embarrassing and i feel like i cant talk to anyone about this
The bedroom is your place to relax, a safe haven from the chaos of daily life. Unless, of course, it smells. Don’t worry, musty bedroom odors are fairly common, although they can mystify homeowners. When something smells a little off in your sleeping quarters, its time to check out the tips in this article! If you keep a neat bed, but a lingering sweaty odor lurks in your bedroom, look at your floors. Say goodbye to carpet! Carpeted floors are a big no-no in the bedroom. Sex, showers, and illness all carry odors that get trapped in carpet fibers.
You realize no amount of brushing, flossing, or mouthwash the night before seems to mask the overwhelming odor from your mouth when you wake up. Getting out of bed with bad breath, halitosis, in the morning is fairly common as our mouth goes into a “rest and digest” mode overnight. 
Apply vinegar to the walls. The walls of your room can trap and store many odors, which vinegar helps to kill. Mix 1/4 cup (60 ml) of vinegar with 2 quarts (2 liters) of water. Dip a sponge or washcloth into the mixture and clean your walls. 1  Don't worry about the smell of the vinegar: it goes away once it dries. 
Report Abuse. Well as people that most likely live dozens or hundreds of miles away from you, we can't possibly tell you why your room stinks. When you first wake up, you're very sensitive to smells, however. I've noticed this many times when my mother is cooking something with garlic in it. It could just be that. However, if you scan your room, you may find something of interest-rotten milk, a dead mouse, etc
I try to keep my room clean and fresh, yet most mornings it smells like a locker room! Switching to 100% cotton bedding helped the problem quite a bit. Unfortunately, that means my sheets are wrinkled (I don’t iron), but I would rather have sheet wrinkles than Boy Smell. 
Personally I don't think it's anything to worry about. My bedroom will sometimes have a funny smell in the morning and I've always just put it down to garlic breath or maybe stinky farts in the night.......blame hubby lol!!! Also, when I walk into my sons bedroom (I have 3) I can smell it there too. 639. My son has a similar smell to his room in the mornings, I just put it down to 'boy sweat' He is 2 and a half but he sweats through his head and wrecks pillows dribbling and sweating, they stink and smell really sweet, we go through about 8 pillows a year as they disentrigate in the washing machine over time.
WARNING: Do NOT Try to Mask the Odor. Using potpourri or other scent products to make your room smell nicer can actually do the opposite. Without proper cleaning and ventilation, your bedroom could develop a lavender-tinged sweat smell. Like a locker room in summer. Skip the fragrances, unless you do the cleaning first! If you keep a neat bed, but a lingering sweaty odor lurks in your bedroom, look at your floors. Say goodbye to carpet! Carpeted floors are a big no-no in the bedroom. Sex, showers, and illness all carry odors that get trapped in carpet fibers.