Definition. The Common Disease-Common Variant Hypothesis (CDCVH) is a hypothesis that proposes if a disease that is heritable is common in the population (a prevalence greater than 1–5%), then the genetic contributors – specific variations in the genetic code – will also be common in the population. The CDCVH is based on evidence from evolutionary theory, specifically that all humans today descended from a small population of roughly 10,000 individuals in Africa a relatively short time ago, approximately 100,000 years ago.
Abstract. The recent large genotyping studies have identified a new repertoire of disease susceptibility loci of unknown function, characterized by high allele frequencies and low relative risks, lending support to the common disease-common variant (CDCV) hypothesis. These discrepancies appear [18] to challenge the CDCV paradigm, because the genes with a large population impact, PAF, also eventually need to explain the familial aggregation of the disease [14] . We test here a hypothesis that may help to understand the paradox of high PAFs and low λs.
As a result, some have put forth a competing hypothesis, the Common Disease-Rare Variant Hypothesis, that states that common diseases may be explained by a multiplicity of individually rare disease alleles in the population. The CDCVH is based on evidence from evolutionary theory, specifically that all humans today descended from a small population of roughly 10,000 individuals in Africa a relatively short time ago, approximately 100,000 years ago.
This progress has lead to the common disease:common variant hypothesis which speculates that the gene variation underlying susceptibility to common heritable diseases existed within the founding population of contemporary humans. 4–7 If inherited hypertension susceptibility is due to common coding/regulatory sequence variants, the relevant variation must lie among the ≈100,000 such variants. Several large-scale projects to identify and catalog human SNP variation have begun.
Introduction. The common disease-common variant (CDCV) hypothesis posits that common, interacting disease alleles underlie most common diseases, perhaps in association with environmental factors [1] , [2] . Similarly, The prevalence of the disease in the population is then: and the PAF is: The sibling recurrence risk is given by: where V a is the additive genetic variance divided by κ 0 2, V d is the dominance genetic variance divided by κ 0 2 and K = κ/κ 0.
Abstract. The recent large genotyping studies have identified a new repertoire of disease susceptibility loci of unknown function, characterized by high allele frequencies and low relative risks, lending support to the common disease-common variant (CDCV) hypothesis. Similarly, The prevalence of the disease in the population is then: and the PAF is: The sibling recurrence risk is given by: where V a is the additive genetic variance divided by κ 0 2, V d is the dominance genetic variance divided by κ 0 2 and K = κ/κ 0.
The common disease-common variant (often abbreviated CD-CV) hypothesis predicts that common disease-causing alleles, or variants, will be found in all human populations which manifest a given disease. Common variants (not necessarily disease-causing) are known to exist in coding and regulatory sequences of genes. As indicated by the name, SNPs are single base changes in the DNA. SNP variants tend to be common in different human populations. These polymorphisms have been valuable as genomic signposts, or markers, in the search for common variants that influence susceptibility to common diseases.
Hypertension Genetics, Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms, and the Common Disease:Common Variant Hypothesis. 1  Peter A. Doris. 2  Correspondence to Dr Peter Doris, Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Texas at Houston, 2121 W. Holcombe Blvd, Houston, TX 77030. 4–7 If inherited hypertension susceptibility is due to common coding/regulatory sequence variants, the relevant variation must lie among the ≈100,000 such variants. Several large-scale projects to identify and catalog human SNP variation have begun.
The common disease-common variant (CDCV) hypothesis posits that common, interacting disease alleles underlie most common diseases, perhaps in association with environmental factors [1] , [2] . These discrepancies appear [18] to challenge the CDCV paradigm, because the genes with a large population impact, PAF, also eventually need to explain the familial aggregation of the disease [14] . We test here a hypothesis that may help to understand the paradox of high PAFs and low λs.
Common disease–common variant hypothesis. (CDCV hypothesis). The model that complex disease is largely attributable to a moderate number of common variants, each of which explains several per cent of the risk in a population. Genotype-by-genotype interactions. (G×G interactions). Otherwise known as epistasis, this refers to the situation in which the effect of one genotype is conditional on genotypes at one or more other unlinked loci.