Usually, people with osteoporosis need pain relief when they are recovering from a fracture. In cases of severe osteoporosis with multiple spine fractures, pain control also may become part of daily life. Regardless of the cause, pain management strategies are similar for people with osteoporosis, OA, and RA. The two most common types of arthritis are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. 1  Osteoarthritis (OA) is a painful, degenerative joint disease that often involves the hips, knees, neck, lower back, or small joints of the hands.
In osteoporosis, there is a loss of bone tissue that leaves bones less dense and more likely to fracture. It can result in a loss of height, severe back pain, and change in one’s posture. Osteoporosis can impair a person’s ability to walk and can cause prolonged or permanent disability. The two most common types of arthritis are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. 1  Osteoarthritis (OA) is a painful, degenerative joint disease that often involves the hips, knees, neck, lower back, or small joints of the hands.
The most common cause of hip pain is osteoarthritis (OA). Other causes of hip pain include rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, osteonecrosis (death of bone caused by insufficient blood supply), injury, infection, and bone tumors. Your hip is one of the largest weight-bearing joints in your body. When it's working properly, it lets you walk, sit, bend, and turn without pain. To keep it moving smoothly, a complex network of bones, cartilage, muscles, ligaments, and tendons must all work in harmony.
Back pain can be a sign that a compression fracture has occurred in the vertebrae-the bones that form your spine. Brittle, weak bones caused by osteoporosis are at the root of this problem. Compression fractures in the back are a major source of pain and disability for women, and some men, over 50 years old. Compression fractures in the back are also the most common type of fracture due to osteoporosis. 
The most common cause of osteoporosis pain is a spinal compression fracture. If you have been diagnosed with osteoporosis, or if you have several risk factors for osteoporosis, these symptoms may indicate a compression fracture 1  : Sudden, severe back pain that gets worse when you are standing or walking. Medication to Relieve Osteoporosis Pain. Medication is the most popular way to manage osteoporosis pain. Drugs include: 1  Over-the-counter pain medications like acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen are safe pain relievers for most people. 2  Narcotics can help in the short-term with acute pain. 3  Antidepressant medication is sometimes prescribed to help people cope with chronic pain
Perhaps the most common symptom of osteoporosis is a vertebral compression fracture or hip fracture. The compression fractures in the spine, caused by weakened vertebrae can lead to pain in your mid-back area. 
Because transient osteoporosis of the hip is not a common condition, doctors often diagnose it by ruling out other, more frequent sources of hip pain. Arthritis, osteonecrosis, stress fracture, muscle injury, and tumor are all conditions that your doctor may consider during your evaluation. Despite the name, transient osteoporosis of the hip is very different from the more common age-related osteoporosis. Age-related osteoporosis is a painless, progressive condition that leads to a weakening of the bones throughout the body.
Osteoporosis a condition of your bones where they are thin and subject to increased risk for fracture. This is often just a result of aging, but can lead to considerable disability, especially when associated with back and hip fractures. However, osteoporosis does not usually cause pain unless you have a fracture. 
Transient osteoporosis of the hip is an uncommon condition that causes temporary bone loss in the upper portion of the thighbone (femur). People with transient osteoporosis of the hip will experience a sudden onset of pain that intensifies with walking or other weight-bearing activities. In many cases, the pain increases over time and may become disabling. Painful symptoms gradually subside and usually end within 6 to 12 months. Despite the name, transient osteoporosis of the hip is very different from the more common age-related osteoporosis. Age-related osteoporosis is a painless, progressive condition that leads to a weakening of the bones throughout the body.