Several types of EIA tests exist. Validated and FDA-approved EIAs include “ELISA” (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) and “ELFA” (enzyme-linked fluorescent immunoassay). Lyme disease testing measures a person's antibody (or immune response) to the bacteria that cause Lyme disease. The Western blot or other FDA-approved type of immunoblot can help distinguish patients who have Lyme disease from those with other conditions. Additional information on the EIA/ELISA test is available. New tests may be developed as alternatives to one or both steps of the two-step process.
The Energy Information Administration (EIA) is the statistical agency of the Department of Energy. It provides policy-independent data, forecasts, and analyses to promote sound policy making, efficient markets, and public understanding regarding energy, and its interaction with the economy and the environment. Here are just a few of the Publications & Reports from EIA: This Week in Petroleum
The EIA process makes sure that environmental issues are raised when a project or plan is first discussed and that all concerns are addressed as a project gains momentum through to implementation. The output from the screening process is often a document called an Initial Environmental Examination or Evaluation (IEE). The main conclusion will be a classification of the project according to its likely environmental sensitivity. This will determine whether an EIA is needed and if so to what detail.
EIA, n exercise-induced asthma; a breathing disorder characterized by fits of heavy or irregular breathing, wheezing, coughing, and gasping, which is brought on by physical exertion. 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is a process of evaluating the likely environmental impacts of a proposed project or development, taking into account inter-related socio-economic, cultural and human-health impacts, both beneficial and adverse. UNEP defines Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) as a tool used to identify the environmental, social and economic impacts of a project prior to decision-making.
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is the process of assessing the likely environmental impacts of a proposal and identifying options to minimise environmental damage. EIA provides an opportunity to identify key issues and stakeholders early in the life of a proposal so that potentially adverse impacts can be addressed before final approval decisions are made. (Australian EIA Network). EIA is not a way of allowing an environmental 'veto' on development proposals.
DEFINITION of 'Energy Information Administration-EIA'. A government agency formed in 1977 as an advisor to the U.S. Department of Energy. The EIA is responsible for objectively collecting energy data, conducting analysis and making forecasts. EIA's reports contain information regarding important energy-related factors such as future energy inventories, demand and prices.
The local governing tool for EIA in South Australia is the Development Act 1993. There are three levels of assessment possible under the Act in the form of an environment impact statement (EIS), a public environmental report (PER) or a Development Report (DR). The first is under Part 5.1 of the EPAA, which provides for EIA of 'State Significant Infrastructure' projects. (From June 2011, this Part replaced Part 3A, which previously covered EIA of major projects). The second is under Part 4 of the Act dealing with development control.
Define: EIA-310. What is EIA. EIA stands for the Electronic Industries Association. The current revision is EIA-310-D. The EIA-310 document is available for purchase at the IHS website. Overview. EIA-310 is a specification for what is often called the “standard rack”. This specification standardizes several important features of 19″ racks, such as the Rack Unit (RU or U) , vertical hole spacing, horizontal hole spacing, rack opening and front panel width. The horizontal spacing of the vertical rows of holes is specified by EIA-310 at 18 5/16″ (18.312)(465.1 mm). This dimension is not well maintained on some racks, causing problems with equipment installation. Many manufacturers use equipment mounting slots instead of holes to allow for variations in this dimension.
In New Zealand, EIA is usually referred to as Assessment of Environmental Effects (AEE). The first use of EIA's dates back to a Cabinet minute passed in 1974 called Environmental Protection and Enhancement Procedures. The first is under Part 5.1 of the EPAA, which provides for EIA of 'State Significant Infrastructure' projects. (From June 2011, this Part replaced Part 3A, which previously covered EIA of major projects). The second is under Part 4 of the Act dealing with development control.