A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. The sarcoplasm is the cytoplasm of a muscle fiber. Most of the sarcoplasm is filled with myofibrils, which are long protein cords composed of myofilaments.
Muscles have three major areas: 1. a belly or Gaster. 2. an origin: a tendinous connection of the muscle to a bone, usually the bone that is stabilized. 3. an insertion: a tendinous connection of the muscle to a bone, usually the bone to be moved. Skeletal muscle is designed as a bundle within a bundle arrangement. Convergent: the muscle fibers converge on the insertion to maximize the force of muscle contraction. Examples: Deltoideus muscle and Pectoralis Major muscle. 3. pennate: many fibers per unit area. These types of muscles are strong but they tie or quickly.
1. sarcoplasm-the cytoplasm of a striated muscle fiber. cytol, cytoplasm-the protoplasm of a cell excluding the nucleus; is full of proteins that control cell metabolism. myofibril, myofibrilla, sarcostyle-one of many contractile filaments that make up a striated muscle fiber. sarcoplasm. n. 1. (Anatomy) the cytoplasm of a muscle fibre.
Cardiomyocytes are the muscle fibres that form the chambers of the heart, and have a single central nucleus. Skeletal muscle fibers help support and move the body and tend to have peripheral nuclei. Smooth muscle cells control involuntary movements such as the peristalsis contractions in the oesophagus and stomach. The sarcoplasm is the cytoplasm of a muscle fiber. Most of the sarcoplasm is filled with myofibrils, which are long protein cords composed of myofilaments.
Definition of SARCOPLASM. : the cytoplasm of a striated muscle fiber. — sar·co·plas·mic \-ˈplaz-mik\ adjective
sarcoplasm-the cytoplasm of a striated muscle fiber. cytol, cytoplasm-the protoplasm of a cell excluding the nucleus; is full of proteins that control cell metabolism. sarcoplasm. n. 1. (Anatomy) the cytoplasm of a muscle fibre.
Noun. 1. sarcosome-a large mitochondrion in a striated muscle fiber. chondriosome, mitochondrion-an organelle containing enzymes responsible for producing energy. 1  Facebook. sar·co·some. n. A large specialized mitrochondrion found in striated muscle.
Medical Definition of SARCOMERE. : any of the repeating structural units of striated muscle fibrils.