1 Click here for a quick look at Mount Washington Hotel. 2  A very short tour for those in a hurry. 3  Information for Planning Your Visit to Mount Washington Hotel Description of the facilities, amenities offered in guest rooms, directions, maps, more. 4  All the information you need to help you plan a visit. At the far south end of Stickney Street is the indoor pool. Originally the pool was longer, it was shortened to make room for a new massage center. Fortunately the hotel logo on the pool bottom was retained. Another look at the pool.
Floor plan courtesy of Mount Washington Resort. Stickney Street extends most of the length of the patio level. Historic photos of the hotel line the walls of Stickney Street. There is also a ice cream shop, gift shop, Kid's Camp (day care), and a real estate office down here that I didn't photograph. The gift shop was originally the Ladies Card Room. At the far south end of Stickney Street is the indoor pool. Originally the pool was longer, it was shortened to make room for a new massage center. Fortunately the hotel logo on the pool bottom was retained. Another look at the pool.
1 Click here for a quick look at Mount Washington Hotel. 2  A very short tour for those in a hurry. 3  Information for Planning Your Visit to Mount Washington Hotel Description of the facilities, amenities offered in guest rooms, directions, maps, more. 4  All the information you need to help you plan a visit. The Veranda of the Mount Washington Hotel is an amazing 903 feet long. At the south end of the hotel the veranda widens into a viewing platform, then continues around to the back of the hotel. The south end of the veranda offers fine views of the golf course and valley. Flower pots hang from the veranda roof.
Grand History, Modern Luxury. As grand as the history behind it, Omni Mount Washington Resort, located in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, is gracious in ambiance and generous in amenities. A favorite New England retreat of presidents, poets and celebrities, the hotel delights every sense with enchanting music, refined dining and luxurious decor. décor Luxury resort in the New Hampshire mountains. As grand as the history behind it, Omni Mount Washington Resort, located in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, is gracious in ambiance and generous in amenities.
Reservations. Plan your getaway to the mountain. Guest rooms and the public areas of The Lodge at Bretton Woods have been recently renovated, and an enhanced continental breakfast with select hot items is now included with all stays.
1 One of the best in New Hampshire for Best Grand Hotel with a Spa and Best Zipline Experience, Yankee magazine. “ 2 Best of New England” for large hotels and luxury hotels, Yankee magazine. 3  AAA Four Diamond rating, Omni Mount Washington Hotel & Main Dining Room. Luxury resort in the New Hampshire mountains. As grand as the history behind it, Omni Mount Washington Resort, located in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, is gracious in ambiance and generous in amenities. A favorite New England retreat of presidents, poets and celebrities, the hotel delights every sense with enchanting music, refined dining and luxurious decor. décor
About the Lodge at Bretton Woods. In the shadow of Mt. Washington on Route 302, The Lodge is part of the legendary Mount Washington Resort -- affording guests all the resort amenities, from golf, tennis and swimming to skiing, skating and horseback riding. Or simply enjoy the spectacular views on walks, bike rides and hikes on and around the property. Plan your getaway to the mountain. Guest rooms and the public areas of The Lodge at Bretton Woods have been recently renovated, and an enhanced continental breakfast with select hot items is now included with all stays.
The Mount Washington was never an inexpensive hotel. Joseph Stickney set the price of his rooms at four times the going rate, and his wealthy guests gladly paid the price. Unfortunately Joseph Stickney didn't have much time to enjoy his new hotel, he died on December 21, 1903. The Veranda of the Mount Washington Hotel is an amazing 903 feet long. At the south end of the hotel the veranda widens into a viewing platform, then continues around to the back of the hotel. The south end of the veranda offers fine views of the golf course and valley. Flower pots hang from the veranda roof.