The cost for your car interior reupholstering can be as reduced as 1000 US dollars to as much as tens of thousands dollars. The cost for car reupholstering will only depend with what you want your car to be done and the material that you wish to be used. The total cost for a classic car reupholstering may be around 4,500 US dollars. This will include on the cost of the material and labor. Cost for reupholstering. Once you have established a professional car upholsterer, then it is important to consider the cost for the service. If the car is a common model then the cost may be somewhere 1,000 US dollars. The price can change depending with several factors. One such factor is the size of the car.
To reupholster a 1967 Ferrari can cost you as much as 5,000 US dollars. The third factor is the material used for example fabric or leather. A fabric material for car seats may cost up to $10.00/yard to $80.00/yard. Leather materials used to reupholster the car seats may be more costly although they are considered to be more luxurious, soft and stain resistant. Cost for reupholstering. Once you have established a professional car upholsterer, then it is important to consider the cost for the service. If the car is a common model then the cost may be somewhere 1,000 US dollars. The price can change depending with several factors. One such factor is the size of the car.
1 DoItYourself.com explains how to reupholster a car seat for just the cost of the material (and spray paint if parts of the seat frame are corroded). 2  Sunbrite Auto Works in Tampa, FL provides a how-to video for recovering a vehicle's headliner (60-wide foam-backed headliner material typically costs $10-$20 a yard). 1 As an alternative, universal seat covers that fit a general size and style of seat typically cost $10-$70 each; they don't look as good as custom covers or reupholstered seats, but they generally covers stains or rips and prevent further damage. 2  A do-it-yourself project is also a possibility.
1 On average, reupholstering a car seat can cost anywhere from $120 to as much as $450 per seat. 2  The type of material can greatly influence the price. 3  For example, leather seats are going to cost a lot more than vinyl material. 4  Reupholstering a car completely can range anywhere from the low $300’s to as much as $2,000. 1 The type of material can greatly influence the price. 2  For example, leather seats are going to cost a lot more than vinyl material. 3  Reupholstering a car completely can range anywhere from the low $300’s to as much as $2,000.
Shopping for upholstery for cars: 1  As an alternative, universal seat covers that fit a general size and style of seat typically cost $10-$70 each; they don't look as good as custom covers or reupholstered seats, but they generally covers stains or rips and prevent further damage. 1 As an alternative, universal seat covers that fit a general size and style of seat typically cost $10-$70 each; they don't look as good as custom covers or reupholstered seats, but they generally covers stains or rips and prevent further damage. 2  A do-it-yourself project is also a possibility.
The cost to reupholster car seats depends on the type of material, the type of seat, and the number that need to be reupholstered. Luxury car seats are typically made from leather or a high quality, high durability fabric. As such, the cost to reupholster those types of seats runs approximately $350 apiece. Standard vinyl material is not very expensive, and so the cost runs about $125 per seat. To restore your seats to factory quality, be prepared to spend about $225 per seat
1 Installation by an auto upholstery shop (which can include adding batting or foam, or repairing springs if needed) can cost an additional $100-$800 or more, bringing total costs to $200-$1,800 or more per row for professional installation of custom slip covers. 1 As an alternative, universal seat covers that fit a general size and style of seat typically cost $10-$70 each; they don't look as good as custom covers or reupholstered seats, but they generally covers stains or rips and prevent further damage. 2  A do-it-yourself project is also a possibility.
1 It shows that the price for reupholstering a car can reach anywhere from $600 to $700, which includes seat covers, lock buttons, and others. 2  According to the site CarsDirect.com, the price for reupholstering car seats for various cars can range from $125 to $350 per seat. 1 The type of material can greatly influence the price. 2  For example, leather seats are going to cost a lot more than vinyl material. 3  Reupholstering a car completely can range anywhere from the low $300’s to as much as $2,000.
1 According to the site Auoupholsterykits.com, the price for the upholstery for different types of cars such as Honda and Nissan can range anywhere from $389 to $414. 2  This is the cost for reupholstering the seats alone. 3  Something such as carpets can range anywhere from $145 to $226. 1 The type of material can greatly influence the price. 2  For example, leather seats are going to cost a lot more than vinyl material. 3  Reupholstering a car completely can range anywhere from the low $300’s to as much as $2,000.