The oxygen dissolved in lakes, rivers, and oceans is crucial for the organisms and creatures living in it. As the amount of dissolved oxygen drops below normal levels in water bodies, the water quality is harmed and creatures begin to die off. Indeed, a water body can die, a process called eutrophication. 
Biologically speaking, however, the level of oxygen is a much more important measure of water quality than feacal coliform. Dissolved oxygen is absolutely essential for the survival of all aquatic organisms (not only fish but also invertebrates suach as crabs, clams, zooplankton, etc). Moreover, oxygen affects a vast number of other water indicators, not only biochemical but esthetic ones like the odor, clarity and taste. C6H12O6. Fish and aquatic animals cannot split oxygen from water (H2O) or other oxygen-containing compounds. Only green plants and some bacteria can do that through photosynthesis and similar processes. Virtually all the oxygen we breath is manufactured by green plants.
2. The dissolved oxygen level of water is an important indicator of the health of the aquatic ecosystem. Productive waters contain adequate amounts of D.O. to support lifeforms and maintain that oxygen levels in a stable, healthy range. a. 
! ! ! page 2. Oxygen in Equilibrium Dissolved Oxygen and Henry's Law Oxygen dissolved in water can come from the atmosphere or as a byproduct of the photosynthesis of aquatic plants.For water in equilibrium with the atmosphere, the concentration is governed by Henry's Law, and K H for O 2 is 769.23. Dissolved Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Every atmospheric gas is in equilibrium with that gas dissolved in ocean water. The concentrations of two of these are particularly important. The concentration of oxygen in water is crucial to aquatic animals that depend on dissolved oxygen for respiration.
Why Dissolved Oxygen is Important. Dissolved oxygen analysis measures the amount of gaseous oxygen (O2) dissolved in an aqueous solution. Oxygen gets into water by diffusion from the surrounding air, by aeration (rapid movement), and as a waste product of photosynthesis. As dissolved oxygen levels in water drop below 5.0 mg/l, aquatic life is put under stress. The lower the concentration, the greater the stress. Oxygen levels that remain below 1-2 mg/l for a few hours can result in large fish kills. 1  Back to Parameters List. 2  Chemical Testing Main Page. 3  Water Watch Home Page.
Why Dissolved Oxygen is Important. The dissolved oxygen (DO) is oxygen that is dissolved in water. The oxygen dissolves by diffusion from the surrounding air; aeration of water that has tumbled over falls and rapids; and as a waste product of photosynthesis. An simplified formula is given below: C6H12O6. Fish and aquatic animals cannot split oxygen from water (H2O) or other oxygen-containing compounds. Only green plants and some bacteria can do that through photosynthesis and similar processes. Virtually all the oxygen we breath is manufactured by green plants.
An adequate supply of dissolved oxygen gas is essential for the survival of aquatic organisms. A deficiency in this area is a sign of an unhealthy river. There are a variety of factors affecting levels of dissolved oxygen. The atmosphere is a major source of dissolved oxygen in river water. Waves and tumbling water mix atmospheric oxygen with river water. Oxygen is also produced by rooted aquatic plants and algae as a product of photosynthesis. There are physical factors that can lessen the amount of oxygen dissolved in the Cuyahoga.
Dissolved Oxyggen. Oxygen is one of several dissolved gases important to aquatic systems. Dissolved oxygen is necessary to maintain aerobic conditions in surface waters and is considered a primary indicator when assessing the suitability of surface waters to support aquatic life. 