An abbreviation (from Latin brevis, meaning short) is a shortened form of a word or phrase. It consists of a group of letters taken from the word or phrase. For example, the word abbreviation can itself be represented by the abbreviation abbr. , abbrv. or abbrev. For all other rules, see below: To form the plural of an abbreviation, a number, or a capital letter used as a noun, simply add a lowercase s to the end. Apostrophes following decades and single letters are also common.
All abbreviations are given with full stops, although these are omitted or included as a personal preference in most situations. It is also widely used as an abbreviation for  see , although some styles recommend against such use. Example: These results agree with the ones published by Pelon et al. (2002). 1 List of abbreviations used in medical prescriptions. 2  List of classical abbreviations. 3  List of ecclesiastical abbreviations. 4  List of Latin phrases. 5  per mille, Latin for in each thousand, but not an abbreviation. 6  May be seen abbreviated as per mil.
1 Also Described As. 2  Also Eligible. 3  also known as. 4  Also Known As But Not Usually Known As. 5  also known by. 6  Also Known by You As. 7  also known under the name of. 8  also recognized as. 9  also-ran. 10  also-ran. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. abbreviation. The definition of aka is an abbreviation that means also-known-as. When your name is Joe but you are also known as Joseph, this is an example of a situation where you are Joe AKA Joseph.
Note. All abbreviations in the first section should be used inside of parentheses only, that is, when you are making a parenthetical statement. Outside of parentheses, spell these expressions out using the definitions given in the Meaning column. The abbreviation “et al.” is used both inside and outside of parentheses. Directions on comma use always apply, whether you are abbreviating or not. Although the abbreviation “ibid.” is not used in APA Style, it is included here because it occurs in non-APA scholarly writing and readers may be otherwise unfamiliar with it.
Use periods with abbreviations that end in a lowercase letter: p. (page), vol., e.g., i.e., etc., a.k.a., a.m., p.m., Ms., Dr., et al. (et is not an abbreviation; al. is). An exception may be made for the few academic degrees that end in a lowercase letter (e.g., DLitt, DMin); see 10.20 and rule 3. It can be written and will be understood both with and without periods, although I see it usually written without. Style guides will differ on the periods. As a counter-example to the somewhat heavyweight CMOS, the Guardian recommend to use aka without periods.
A contraction is an abbreviation, but an abbreviation is not necessarily a contraction. Acronyms and initialisms are regarded as subsets of abbreviations (e.g. by the Council of Science Editors). They are abbreviations that consist of the initial letters or parts of words. For all other rules, see below: To form the plural of an abbreviation, a number, or a capital letter used as a noun, simply add a lowercase s to the end. Apostrophes following decades and single letters are also common.
Also, unlike as in the case of etc. , refrain from preceding it with a comma, presumably because only one name precedes it. Fun fact: We use a form of the second word in this term — alias — to mean “otherwise known as” (adverb) or “an assumed name” (noun). This abbreviation of id est (“that is”) is, like e.g. , is frequently erroneously styled without periods (or as ie. 