T. x 1,000,000,000,000 (10 12). The base units of length and volume are linked in the metric system. By definition, a liter is equal to the volume of a cube exactly 10 cm tall, 10 cm long, and 10 cm wide. Because the volume of this cube is 1000 cubic centimeters and a liter contains 1000 milliliters, 1 milliliter is equivalent to 1 cubic centimeter. 1 mL = 1cm 3. The base units of volume and weight are also linked.
There are 3 units of measure for Temperature: Fahrenheit (the most commonly used unit in the US)Celsius (Commonly used in the UK)Kelvin (used in universities in physics cours … es). It is not the official metric unit of temperature, but is accepted for use with the metric system due its close links with the Kelvin. Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_the_metric_unit_for_temperature#ixzz29UOhCqlj. 1 person found this useful.
Confidence votes 1.3K. Temperature is the head content of a matter. The temperature is measured in different scales and each scale has it uses and has originated for specific purposes. The well known measures of temperature are Fahrenheit and Celsius (or centigrade). Both Fahrenheit and Celsius are scaled between the freezing and boiling points of water. The freezing point of water is equal to 32 Fahrenheit and 0 Celsius and the boiling point is equal to 212 Fahrenheit and 100 Celsius. Another temperature scale is The Kelvin scale which has many applications in science and engineering
The basic unit of temperature (symbol: T) in the International System of Units (SI) is the kelvin (K). One kelvin is formally defined as exactly 1/273.16 of the temperature of the triple point of water (the point at which water, ice and water vapor exist in equilibrium). In the previous section temperature was defined in terms of the Zeroth Law of thermodynamics. It is also possible to define temperature in terms of the second law of thermodynamics, which deals with entropy. Entropy is a measure of the disorder in a system.
Temperature is the head content of a matter. The temperature is measured in different scales and each scale has it uses and has originated for specific purposes. The well known measures of temperature are Fahrenheit and Celsius (or centigrade). Both Fahrenheit and Celsius are scaled between the freezing and boiling points of water. The freezing point of water is equal to 32 Fahrenheit and 0 Celsius and the boiling point is equal to 212 Fahrenheit and 100 Celsius.
Celsius or Kelvin The metric unit for temperature is the Kelvin (symbol: K), which is defined as 1/273.16 of the temperature difference between absolute zero and the triple p … oint of water. The Kelvin (not degrees Kelvin) is mainly used in scientific fields. The degree Celsius (symbol: °C, formerly known as degrees centigrade) is of the same magnitude, but the zero is at 273.15 K. It is more commonly used than Kelvin for everyday usage, for example in weather forecasts and room temperature. It is not the official metric unit of temperature, but is accepted for use with the metric system due its close links with the Kelvin. Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_the_metric_unit_for_temperature#ixzz29UOhCqlj. 1 person found this useful.
As with the Units of Measurement wiki, the text of the engineering wiki is available under Creative Commons License see Wikia:Licensing. Temperature is the physical property of a system which underlies the common notions of hot and cold; the material with the higher temperature is said to be hotter. Physically, temperature is a measure of the random agitation of matter and ambient photons, under the effect of thermal fluctuations. In the previous section temperature was defined in terms of the Zeroth Law of thermodynamics. It is also possible to define temperature in terms of the second law of thermodynamics, which deals with entropy. Entropy is a measure of the disorder in a system.
Units of Temperature from fahrenheit to celsius to kelvin and back Degrees Fahrenheit, (developed in the early 1700's by G. Daniel Fahrenheit), are used to record surface temperature measurements by meteorologists in the United States. 
SI Units: Temperature. The Kelvin (K) is the fraction 1/273.16 of the thermodynamic temperature of the triple point of water. The temperature 0 K is commonly referred to as absolute zero.. On the widely used Celsius temperature scale, water freezes at 0 °C and boils at about 100 °C. One Celsius degree is an interval of 1 K, and zero degrees Celsius if 273.15 K. An interval of one Celsius degree corresponds to an interval of 1.8 Fahrenheit degrees on the Fahrenheit temperature scale.
In this scale a temperature difference of 1 degree is the same as a 1 K temperature difference, so the scale is essentially the same as the Kelvin scale, but offset by the temperature at which water freezes (273.15 K). Thus the following equation can be used to convert from degrees Celsius to kelvins. In the previous section temperature was defined in terms of the Zeroth Law of thermodynamics. It is also possible to define temperature in terms of the second law of thermodynamics, which deals with entropy. Entropy is a measure of the disorder in a system.