Storing of hard-cooked (boiled) eggs: Refrigeration is necessary for hard boiled eggs if the eggs are not to be consumed within a few hours. It is preferable not to peel your eggs until you are ready to eat or use in your recipe. Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one (1) week. Peeled hard-boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time.
Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time. Soft-cooked (boiled) eggs: A soft-cooked egg has a firm white and runny yolk. To serve in egg cup, place egg in cup small end down, slice off large end of egg with knife or egg scissors and eat from shell with spoon. You can also buy a good egg topper from a kitchen store.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!)
No Follow. Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks. It's best to place them in a container or plastic bag so they don't absorb refrigerator smells and flavors. Headline Clickable. Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks.
1 Cooking: Always make sure that your eggs are safe to eat. 2  For hard-boiled (or any cooked) eggs, you want to cook the eggs until both the white and yolk are firm. 3  Learn how to make perfect hard-boiled eggs. 4  Leftovers: Hard-boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 week. 5  They shouldn’t be frozen. 1 For hard-boiled (or any cooked) eggs, you want to cook the eggs until both the white and yolk are firm. 2  Learn how to make perfect hard-boiled eggs. 3  Leftovers: Hard-boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 week. 4  They shouldn’t be frozen.
Store Properly. 1  Use hard-cooked eggs (in the shell or peeled) within 1 week after cooking. 2  Use frozen eggs within 1 year. 3  Refrigerate leftover cooked egg dishes and use within 3 to 4 days. 1 Eggs and egg dishes, such as quiches or souffles, soufflés may be refrigerated for serving later but should be thoroughly reheated to°165 (f°74) c before. 2  Serving cooked, eggs including-hard boiled, eggs and-egg containing, foods should not sit out for more than 2. 3  Hours within 2 hours either reheat or. 
Soft: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 4 to 5 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Medium: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool. 