You've already chosen the best response. Anthropoid, or person shaped, coffins were particularly important to the Ancient Egyptians as they were believed to act as a substitute body for use after death. This is why the dead person as being young and powerful to ensure them health in the afterlife. 
Title: Anthropoid Coffin of Thothirdes. Description: The object is a wooden coffin box (a) associated with an anthropoid coffin lid (37.1521Eb) and mummy (37.1521c). The coffin bottom is constructed from several pieces of wood that have been mechanically joined together with wooden dowels. On the exterior of the coffin box, there are areas of polychromed linen which are lifting away from the wood support. Although scattered overall, this is particularly severe on the bottom of the box and in areas associated with the cracks that have occurred as a result of the splitting of the wood joins.
Anthropoid coffins are remnants of the Egyptian presence in the Levant, and date to end of the Late Bronze and early Iron Ages. The tomb in which this coffin was found probably dates to the Iron Age, sometime in the twelfth century BC. Anthropoid coffins, made from coarse clay, resemble the human form and are roughly cylindrical, tapering from a domed top to a flat base. Some of the lids depict the deceased in a naturalistic style, and some in a grotesque style with exaggerated facial features. The anthropoid coffins found at sites like Beth Shean were likely for Egyptian officials or army officers, although some of the deceased in the coffins may have been foreign mercenaries in Egyptian service. Penn Museum Object #29-103-789. See this object and more like it on Penn Museum’s Online Collection Database.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. a coffin decorated in gold, jewels, or hieroglyphs that is shaped like a person. (The rest of the digits have nails.) The prosimians' teeth are also different; The incisors are almost horizontal in prosimians, and this is called the grooming comb because they use it to groom.
An anthropoid is a type of invertaber it consists of arachnids, insects, myriapods and crustaceans This answer is WRONG. I think you mean 'arthropod.' Anthropoid is a primatol … ogy term referring to simians, or Old World monkeys and apes. (The rest of the digits have nails.) The prosimians' teeth are also different; The incisors are almost horizontal in prosimians, and this is called the grooming comb because they use it to groom.
Now we find coffins of traditional anthropoid form, with a case deep enough for the mummy, covered with a flat or convex lid. However, there were also mummy shaped coffins consisting of two equal parts. One of the most important objects purchased, whether for royalty or other elites, for a tomb was the coffin. It's purpose from the earliest times was the protection of the body, preserving it from deterioration or mutilation.
Anthropoid coffins were used primarily for the burial of adult males, occasionally accompanied by women and/or children, and the burial often contained rich grave goods. The anthropoid coffins found at sites like Beth Shean were likely for Egyptian officials or army officers, although some of the deceased in the coffins may have been foreign mercenaries in Egyptian service. Penn Museum Object #29-103-789. See this object and more like it on Penn Museum’s Online Collection Database.
In addition to these styles, there is also a type of coffin from this period called the court style, which was reserved primarily for members of the royal family. Court coffins were adorned with bands of hieroglyphs in a very simple style. One of the most important objects purchased, whether for royalty or other elites, for a tomb was the coffin. It's purpose from the earliest times was the protection of the body, preserving it from deterioration or mutilation.