Fraser Island is home to a small number of mammal species, as well as a diverse range of birds, reptiles and amphibians, including the occasional saltwater crocodile. The island is part of the Fraser Coast Region and protected in the Great Sandy National Park. The 120 kilometres (75 mi) beach runs along most of the east coast of Fraser Island. It is used as a landing strip for planes and an informal highway for vehicles (highway rules state that vehicles must give way to aircraft if they are oncoming).
Understand [edit]. Fraser Island-stretching over 123km along the southern coast of Queensland. Fraser Island with an area of 184,000 hectares is the largest sand island in the world. Fraser Island's World Heritage listing ranks it with Australia’s Uluru, Kakadu and the Great Barrier Reef
Fraser Island accomodation is very broad and varied with options for everyone from magnificent eco resort to backpackers accomodation to budget cabins, hotel style accomodation great range of resort options including stand-alone villas. Fraser Island is quite well known for the outdoor camping facilities as well. You require camping permits to stay overnight on the island. On the western side of Fraser Island you will find the magnificent eco resort Kingfisher Bay Resort which caters for most tastes and budgets as well. On the ocean side of Fraser Island you will find Eurong Beach Resort that provide some excellent variety in Fraser Island accommodation styles. These include apartments, units, A frame units and cabins – all close to the ocean beach see Fraser Island eastern beach.
Welcome to World Heritage-listed Fraser Island, the world’s largest sand island. Embrace nature on World Heritage-listed Fraser Island, a short ferry ride from Hervey Bay on Queensland's Fraser Coast. On the world's largest sand island, you can 4WD next to coloured sand cliffs, hike through rainforest, meet native wildlife, whale-watch and swim in freshwater lakes ringed with gold. 
Fraser Island Queensland Australia. Fraser Island is a unique part of the Fraser Coast region, and its unusual formation of sand and rainforest make it a special source of adventure for visitors to explore. Although well known among fisherman and 4WD enthusiasts, it is the history and Aboriginal heritage that gives Fraser Island its individual character, expressed through wonderful coloured sand cliffs, unique fresh water lakes and diverse flora and wildlife.
When you are in Australia there is one thing you have to see: FRASER ISLAND. Fraser Island, also known as the biggest sand island in the world, is amazing! When you are in Noosa you can easily head on to Fraser Island from Nomads Noosa with the Fraser Island 2 day / 1 night tour package. 
Fraser Island is a heritage-listed island located along the southern coast of Queensland, Australia, approximately 200 kilometres (120 mi) north of Brisbane. It is a locality within the Fraser Coast Region. Its length is about 120 kilometres (75 mi) and its width is approximately 24 kilometres (15 mi). It was inscribed as a World Heritage site in 1992. The island is considered to be the largest sand island in the world at 1840 km 2. The 120 kilometres (75 mi) beach runs along most of the east coast of Fraser Island. It is used as a landing strip for planes and an informal highway for vehicles (highway rules state that vehicles must give way to aircraft if they are oncoming).
About Fraser Island. K’gari, more popularly known as Fraser Island, is located of the East Coast of Queensland, Australia. Local Aboriginal people have long known the island as K’gari and recently succeeded in having the name recognised officially