Business Development Manager-Field Services. Business Development Manager-Field Services. Working closely with the sales manager, commercial & execution teams and end users your role will include but not... 11 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Schneider Electric jobs-Brisbane jobs. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Business Development Manager in the United States is $109,399, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Business Development Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $109,399. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Business Development Manager that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Business Development Manager are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.
The median salary for a franchise manager is $96,216 as of November 2009, according to Salary.com. The salary of the franchise manager depends on the type of business and its geographic location. A franchise manager should have good verbal and written communication skills to convey the business strategy to new franchisees. She should have strong leadership skills to manage franchise owners.
A General / Operations Manager earns an average salary of $60,518 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Budget Management, Sales Management, and Project Management. A general manager oversees everything from the cleanliness of a location to the inventory that comes in, is sold or delivered. They are responsible for cash deposits and safe maintenance.
Full-time, Temporary. The Assistant Franchise Manager has accountability for managing and maintaining the day to day relationship with our businesses in Sweden.... 
Regional Manager. In this role, you will work with location managers and franchise owners to keep the ‘West Side Charlies’ experience alive island-wide. Ready to up your anty?..
Qualifications. Managers should have a bachelor’s degree in business management or marketing for the position of a franchise manager. Employers may require experience in a management, marketing or leadership position for the franchise manager role. An employer may also require experience in the specific business for a management position. A franchise manager should have good verbal and written communication skills to convey the business strategy to new franchisees. She should have strong leadership skills to manage franchise owners.
Account Executive: $35,000-$165,000 Salary. The headline here might as well say ticket sales.. People can make a whole lot of money selling tickets for an NFL franchise. 
The annual salary for someone with the job title Business Development Manager may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Business Development Manager that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Business Development Manager are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.