Well, they do. Generally feline depression can be overcome fairly quickly. So many things can trigger it. A death in the family (and that can be family with two feet and no tail, or four feet and a tail) is a big one. Cats can mourn anywhere from a few hours or days, to weeks into months. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Hi there...yes, cats can become depressed like humans. Signs that your cat has become depressed can include; eating very little, (if your cat is not eating at all this would require a visit to the vet immediately). Try to spend extra moments with your cat during stressful times or if the cat seems depressed. Another common reason cats become depressed is simple boredom. When their owners are away all day every day, there is little for cats to do.
Depression in cats is not very common, or at least it isn’t recognized as a quiet, less active cat doesn’t bother the owner.”. Cats can become depressed after a major disruption in their lives, such as moving, adding or losing a family member, or having their owner’s schedule change. The most common cause of depression in cats is the loss of a friend. If you think your cat may be depressed, go through our Cat Depression Checklist: 1) Cats normally sleep a lot, but you will notice if your cat’s activity level decreases, he lacks energy or seems to be asleep all the time. Hissing cats who have never hissed before might suffer from depression. Also, those that vocalize after the death of another cat might be mourning the loss. A cat who has lost interest in food might be blue.
Yes No. All of these symptoms could indicate that your cat is depressed or has a medical condition, so it’s important to take your cat to your veterinarian for a thorough checkup. If the vet gives your cat a clean bill of health, then discuss the possibility of depression and what you can do about it. Hissing cats who have never hissed before might suffer from depression. Also, those that vocalize after the death of another cat might be mourning the loss. A cat who has lost interest in food might be blue.
How To Deal With Cat Depression. Feline depression really does exist! Us humans aren't the only ones who can get bouts of the blues-or worse. If your cat becomes depressed and it's not dealt with, it can result in serious medical problems. This page goes explains why cats may become depressed due to things that may be upsetting them-in other words psychological reasons. However, it's really important to remember that cat depression can also be one of the signs of cat health problems and cat illnesses. If a cat becomes depressed, it's likely he'll show some of the following signs: 1  Loss or complete lack of appetite. 2  Lack of grooming. 3  General lack of energy and excessive sleeping.
Cat depression can make your pet lose interest in his food, make him lethargic, and make him avoid the company of others. Cats get depressed when they or their owners are stressed or bereaved. You can help your cat cope with symptoms of depression, but first you've got to know what they are. Here's how you can recognize the clinical signs of cat depression. Cats can become depressed when they experience high levels of stress in their lives, such as those experienced by cats at animal shelters. Cats can even become depressed when their owners are experiencing emotional trauma and bereavement.
1 Weight loss might result from such changes in appetite. 2  Conversely, some cats overeat when depressed. 3  While it's rarer, it does happen. 4  If you notice your cat wanting more food, especially if it's to the point she's putting on weight, this may also be a sign of depression. 1 Always consult a veterinarian when you notice behavioral changes in your cat. 2  Don't assume it's depression as certain symptoms, lack of appetite especially, are linked to a variety of diseases. 3  If your cat has a serious health problem, early intervention is important.
Symptoms of Depression in Cats. Change often triggers depression in cats. You may think of your cat as a tough little thing, always cool, calm and in control. Although that certainly may be true most of the time, it doesn't mean that our furry friends aren't susceptible to depression. Cats have more in common with humans than we sometimes realize! A cat can get depressed because of big changes, such as the passing of one of her most beloved companions or moving to a totally different and bigger house. A cat can get depressed because of various health conditions, including kidney disease and diabetes. Whatever the cause, veterinary attention is crucial.
Litter box issues are linked to stress, which is a symptom of depression in cats. 1  Understand the difference between urine marking and urination. 2  If you're finding urine or feces around the house, this might also be a sign of feline depression. 1 Always consult a veterinarian when you notice behavioral changes in your cat. 2  Don't assume it's depression as certain symptoms, lack of appetite especially, are linked to a variety of diseases. 3  If your cat has a serious health problem, early intervention is important.