Other Types of Walnut Trees. Also falling under the walnut family umbrella, or Juglandaceae, are pecans and hickories, as well as the Persian walnut, all of which fall under the Fagales order. Let's take a closer look. One of the most common walnut trees is the black walnut. This tree has pinnately compound leaves that are lance-like, or egg-shaped leaves, and are alternate on the main stem. The tree can also grow to be over 100 feet tall.
Walnuts are the seeds of walnut trees. Deciduous walnut trees (Juglans), well known for their characteristic walnut seeds, or walnuts, belong to the Juglandaceae family of plants. The genus comprises 21 species and includes members that grow in temperate zones across the world. California Black Walnut. The California black walnut (Juglans californica) is a small ornamental tree that grows up to 49 feet in height. It prefers full sun exposure and moist, well-drained soil.
Four regional types of walnut trees grow within U.S. borders. The California walnut of the coastal area of that state grows to 50 feet and has the compound leaves all walnuts possess, with between 11 and 15 leaflets. It produces a small nut, less than an inch in diameter, within a dark brown husk. Walnut trees have long been valued for their fine-grained wood and the delicious nuts they produce. The American walnut trees differ in such features as height, the appearance of their leaves and the size of the walnut the flowers eventually turn into.
Comments. Submit. There are six types of walnut trees in the United States, each having a specific geographical distribution. Walnut trees have long been valued for their fine-grained wood and the delicious nuts they produce. The American walnut trees differ in such features as height, the appearance of their leaves and the size of the walnut the flowers eventually turn into.
There are many species of walnut tree, all of which have very similar characteristics. Let's take a closer look. One of the most common walnut trees is the black walnut. This tree has pinnately compound leaves that are lance-like, or egg-shaped leaves, and are alternate on the main stem. The tree can also grow to be over 100 feet tall. The bark of this tree is thick, dark brown-to-black in color, and deeply furrowed
different types of nuts, pistachios, walnuts, cashews, almonds, hazelnuts, pecans, pine nuts, peeled pistachios, peanuts. 1  Image ID: 105990371. 2  Copyright: Istochnik. 3  Available in high-resolution and several sizes to fit the needs of your project. 
Types of Walnut Trees image by JoJann:commons.wikimedia.org. The walnut tree genus, known botanically as juglans, contains at least 17 species and hybrid cultivars of walnut trees. Walnut trees are a fine hardwood trees related to the hickory genus and are grown for their nuts and timber wood. All species fall into one of three types of walnut tree: those grown for their fruit or nuts, those grown for timber, and those grown for both their fruit and timber. Walnut trees that are not hybrid or black walnut species are grouped together as common walnut and this is the largest species group in the genus. Common walnut trees are grown for their fruit, their timber or as ornamentals.