Heat and light are both different types of energy. Light energy can be converted into heat energy. A black object absorbs all wavelengths of light and converts them into heat, so the object gets warm. A white object reflects all wavelengths of light, so the light is not converted into heat and the temperature of the object does not increase noticeably. Different wavelengths (colors) of light have different amounts of energy. Violet light has more energy than red light.
The reason why black absorbs more heat is because when light is split up into the seven colours, black objects seem to absorb them all. You will find that if you mix (red, ora … nge, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet) it will all come to the colour black.
Black as a color absorbs heat because of specific properties of the color and of the light. When light shines on an object, the object’s color either absorbs or reflects the light. A red object, for example, absorbs every color except for red, which reflects back to the eyes.
Best Answer: The colour black absorbs the majority of light energy wavelengths. White reflects most wavelengths of light. Since these wavelengths carry heat energy (like in infra red) the black that absorbs most will absorb more heat while the white will reflect most of the heat.
Dark colours do not exactly absorb more heat, but they do convert a higher percentage of light into heat. If you notice when heading out in the sun with a dark coloured shirt it gets hot, where a lighter coloured shirt would not get nearly as hot. This is due to the amount of light being absorbed by the colour. The lighter the colour the smaller the range of visible light being absorbed and converted into heat. White objects reflect all visible light, where black objects absorb all visible light.
If you consider it a color, black absorbs the most heat. A black object absorbs all wavelengths of light and reflects none. Objects that are white, on the other hand, reflect all wavelengths of light and therefore absorb the least heat.