Bone is the major store of calcium. Calcium reabsorption by the kidney is controlled by parathyroid hormone (PTH) produced by the parathyroid glands, which lie in the posterior part of the lobes of the thyroid gland. PTH secretion is controlled by blood calcium concentrations. 
The final important function of parathyroid hormone (PTH) is conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D to its most active metabolite, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D-3 [1,25-(OH) 2 D3], by activation of the enzyme 1-hydroxylase in the proximal tubules of the kidney. When parathyroid hormone (PTH) binds to receptors on these cells, the osteocytic membrane pumps calcium ions from the bone fluid into the extracellular fluid. The slow phase of bone resorption occurs over several days and has 2 components.
Bones play an important role in regulating blood calcium levels, which must be maintained within narrow limits for functions such as muscle contraction and membrane potentials to occur normally. A deficiency of blood calcium is called hypocalcemia, and an excess of blood calcium is called hypercalcemia. Bone is the major storage site for calcium in the body, and movement of calcium into and out of bone helps to determine blood calcium levels.
Calcium reabsorption by the kidney is controlled by parathyroid hormone (PTH) produced by the parathyroid glands, which lie in the posterior part of the lobes of the thyroid gland. PTH secretion is controlled by blood calcium concentrations. Three hormones are involved in regulation of calcium concentrations in extracellular fluid (parathyroid hormone, calcitonin and metabolites of vitamin D). Parathyroid hormone is produced by the parathyroid glands situated on the posterior surface of the lobes of the thyroid; two on each side.
The hormones parathyroid hormone (PTH) and calcitonin help regulate blood calcium levels. Calcitonin, secreted by the thyroid gland inhibits osteoclasts and stimulates osteoblasts, thus decreasing blood calcium levels. Parathyroid hormone is secreted by the parathyroid glands, which are on the posterior side of the thyroid. Parathyroid hormone inhibits osteoblasts, stimulates osteoclasts, reduces the output of calcium by the kidneys and promotes the absorption of calcium by the small intestines, thus increasing blood calcium levels. A deficiency of blood calcium is called hypocalcemia, and an excess of blood calcium is called hypercalcemia. Bone is the major storage site for calcium in the body, and movement of calcium into and out of bone helps to determin
While PTH acts to increase the concentration of ionic calcium (Ca 2+) in the blood, calcitonin, a hormone produced by the parafollicular cells (C cells) of the thyroid gland, acts to decrease ionic calcium concentration. 
Parathyroid Hormone. Parathyroid hormone is the most important endocrine regulator of calcium and phosphorus concentration in extracellular fluid. This hormone is secreted from cells of the parathyroid glands and finds its major target cells in bone and kidney. Low levels of the hormone are secreted even when blood calcium levels are high. The figure to the right depicts parathyroid hormone release from cells cultured in vitro in differing concentrations of calcium.
The two most important hormones for maintaining calcium levels in the body are parathyroid hormone (PTH) and 1,25(OH)2D (the active form of vitamin D). The major regulator is PTH, which is part of a negative feedback loop to maintain [Ca ++ ] ECF (see Humoral regulation). Calcium homeostasis refers to the regulation of the concentration of calcium ions in the extracellular fluid [Ca++]ECF. This parameter is tightly controlled because the calcium ions have a stabilizing effect on voltage-gated ion channels
In the kidney, parathyroid hormone (PTH) blocks reabsorption of phosphate in the proximal tubule while promoting calcium reabsorption in the ascending loop of Henle, distal tubule, and collecting tubule. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) promotes absorption of calcium from the bone in 2 ways. The rapid phase brings about a rise in serum calcium within minutes and appears to occur at the level of the osteoblasts and osteocytes. When parathyroid hormone (PTH) binds to receptors on these cells, the osteocytic membrane pumps calcium ions from the bone fluid into the extracellular fluid. The slow phase of bone resorption occurs over several days and has 2 components.