In coarctation of the aorta, there is a narrowing in part of the aorta, usually the upper part of the aorta. This is just after where the arteries that supply blood to the head and arms have branched off. Blood cannot pass as easily through the narrowed part of the aorta. Coarctation of the aorta is a type of congenital heart disease. (A congenital condition is a condition that you are born with.) There are a number of different types of congenital heart disease. Coarctation of the aorta is just one type. As mentioned above, the aorta is the main artery that leaves the left side of the heart (the left ventricle) and supplies oxygen-rich (oxygenated) blood to the body. The aorta is the main artery of the body and all of the other arteries of the body derive from it
The narrowed segment called coarctation can occur anywhere in the aorta, but is most likely to happen in the segment just after the aortic arch. This narrowing restricts the amount of oxygen-rich (red) blood that can travel to the lower part of the body. Varying degrees of narrowing can occur. Click Image to Enlarge. Coarctation of the aorta is a congenital (present at birth) heart defect involving a narrowing of the aorta. The aorta is the large artery that carries oxygen-rich (red) blood from the left ventricle to the body. It is shaped like a candy cane.
Coarctation of the aorta symptoms depend on the severity of the condition. Most people don't have symptoms. Children with serious aortic narrowing may show signs and symptoms earlier in life, but mild cases with no symptoms might not be diagnosed until adulthood. 
With the congenital heart disease coarctation of the aorta in children, the portion of the aorta just after the upper-body arteries branch off is too narrow; this results in reduced blood flow to the lower body. 
Coarctation of the aorta, or aortic narrowing (abbreviated as CoA), is a congenital condition whereby the aorta narrows in the area where the ductus arteriosus (ligamentum arteriosum after regression) inserts. A: Coarctation (narrowing) of the aorta. 1:Inferior vena cava, 2:Right pulmonary veins, 3: Right pulmonary artery, 4:Superior vena cava, 5:Left pulmonary artery, 6:Left pulmonary veins, 7:Right ventricle, 8:Left ventricle, 9:Pulmonary artery, 10:Aorta.
Overview. Coarctation of the aorta (CoA) is a congenital malformation of the aorta. The condition is also known as aortic coarctation. Either name indicates a constriction of the aorta. The aorta is the largest artery in your body
Aortic coarctation is a narrowing of a portion of the aorta, the major artery that leads out of the heart to the body. This narrowing usually occurs at the point of curvature of the aorta, just beyond where the branches that supply the arms and head leave. 
Background. Coarctation of the aorta is a narrowing of the aorta most commonly found just distal to the origin of the left subclavian artery. Most patients with coarctation have juxtaductal coarctation. Older terms, such as preductal (infantile-type) or postductal (adult-type), are often misleading
Coarctation of the aorta is a type of congenital heart disease. There is a narrowing in part of the aorta, the main artery that leaves the left side of the heart. The degree of narrowing can vary from person to person. Coarctation of the aorta is a type of congenital heart disease. (A congenital condition is a condition that you are born with.) There are a number of different types of congenital heart disease. Coarctation of the aorta is just one type. As mentioned above, the aorta is the main artery that leaves the left side of the heart (the left ventricle) and supplies oxygen-rich (oxygenated) blood to the body. The aorta is the main artery of the body and all of the other arteries of the body derive from it