Beautiful Assortment Sunflower Paper Plates. Throw a spectacular party with fully customizable sunflower paper plates to match your theme! Each set of eight paper plates is printed on durable paper stock and decorated with your custom designs or photos. Labels: autumn paper plates, cowboy hats paper plates, fall paper plates, paper plates with sunflowers, red checked paper plates, sunflower luncheon plates, sunflower paper plates, sunflower party plates. Our Stunning Sunflower iPhone Case and Covers are available on a wide variety on Zazzle products.
Similarly, a sunflower tattoo symbolizes happiness, positivity, good luck, ambition, wealth, as well as spiritual energy among other things. This Buzzle article discusses the various sunflower tattoo symbolism. Keep your face to the sunshine and you cannot see the shadow. It's what sunflowers do. 
However, there is more to sunflowers than meets the eye. While they are stunningly beautiful, they also are rich in history and meaning. The Meaning of Sunflowers. Sunflowers symbolize adoration, loyalty and longevity. Much of the meaning of sunflowers stems from its namesake, the sun itself. These flowers are unique in that they have the ability to provide energy in the form of nourishment and vibrancy—attributes which mirror the sun and the energy provided by its heat and light. Sunflowers are known for being “happy” flowers, making them the perfect gift to bring joy to someone’s (or your) day.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. You must be close to Kansas. Answer positive attitude, happiness, fun we think both way 1. Sunflowers symbolize loyalty and wishes 2. sunflower is a plant   It is a flower which usually blossom on sunny days or summertime. The color of the petals are yellow with a round shape in the middle which is color … brown. 4 people found this useful
Imagery and symbolism. In Ah! Sunflower, Blake combines two common images, but employs them against expectation. Sunflower – According to legend the sunflower was said to turn continually toward the sun (which time-lapse photography now demonstrates!). 
It's sad but true: You might want to avoid certain flowers (if you're superstitious, that is). On the other hand, you can always thumb your nose at history and ascribe your own meaning to these questionable blooms. Here are the so-called negative indicators: 1  Christmas Rose: Scandal. 
There is no flower that has been revered and celebrated as much as the rose. As a source of inspiration to people throughout history, roses are the definitive symbol for love and appreciation. For the meanings of each rose color, please reference our Rose Guide. 
giant sunflower; Helianthus giganteus; Indian potato; tall sunflower (very tall American perennial of central and the eastern United States to Canada having edible tuberous roots). Helianthus laetiflorus; showy sunflower (tall rough-leaved perennial with a few large flower heads; central United States). Helianthus maximilianii; Maximilian's sunflower (tall perennial of central United States to Canada having golden-yellow flowers). The noun SUNFLOWER has 1 sense: 1. any plant of the genus Helianthus having large flower heads with dark disk florets and showy yellow rays. Familiarity information: SUNFLOWER used as a noun is very rare.
The symbolism of flower colors is steeped in tradition. In fact, every flower color from a deep red rose to a bright yellow daffodil offers a rich and meaningful story dating back thousands of years. 