TVP® is made from defatted soy flour that has been cooked under pressure and]},{Type:Business.Consumer_Product.Name,Value:[TVP® (Textured Vegetable Protein) - 25 lb. It is incredibly wealthy in complete protein and contains no fat, so it is an excellent alternative to meat. Textured Vegetable Protein is a highly nutritious soy product. It is incredibly wealthy in complete protein and contains no fat, so it is an excellent alternative to meat. TVP® is made from defatted soy flour that has been cooked under pressure and then dried.
Textured or texturized vegetable protein (TVP), also known as textured soy protein (TSP), soy meat, or soya chunks is a defatted soy flour product, a by-product of extracting soybean oil. It is often used as a meat analogue or meat extender. Using TVP, one can make vegetarian or vegan versions of traditionally meat-based dishes, such as chili con carne, spaghetti bolognese, sloppy joes, tacos, burgers, or burritos. Soy protein can also be used as a low cost/high nutrition extender in comminuted meat and poultry products, and in tuna salads.
TVP is made from vegetable protein, most commonly from soybeans. It has a high protein content which makes it a wonderful vegetarian meat substitute. Because TVP is made from plants it makes it an inexpensive source of protein. Because of this, it is sometimes added to meat as an extender. Many restaurants use textured vegetable protein as a money saver. TVP has been added to meals in public schools in the United States since the 1970
Textured vegetable protein – sometimes referred to as textured soy protein – is a meat substitute made from soy flour. 
Textured vegetable protein, also known as TVP, is a manufactured soy product. The generic name is Total Soy Protein, or TSP, which is actually a more accurate description since it contains a derivative of soybeans rather than actual vegetables. It's commonly found in the cafeterias of institutions with limited financial resources, such as schools and prisons. How TVP is Made. TVP is a factory-made food that originates from a soy protein isolate.
Textured soy chunks are suitable for breading. Textured vegetable protein (TVP), also known as textured soy protein (TSP) is a meat substitute made from defatted soy flour, a by-product of making soybean oil. It is quick to cook, high in protein, and low in fat. 
TVP is usually made from high (50%) soy protein soy flour or concentrate, but can also be made from cotton seeds, wheat, and oats. It is extruded into various shapes (chunks, flakes, nuggets, grains, and strips) and sizes, exiting the nozzle while still hot and expanding as it does so. Using TVP, one can make vegetarian or vegan versions of traditionally meat-based dishes, such as chili con carne, spaghetti bolognese, sloppy joes, tacos, burgers, or burritos. Soy protein can also be used as a low cost/high nutrition extender in comminuted meat and poultry products, and in tuna salads.
1 Veggie Burgers with Textured Vegetable Protein Textured vegetable protein (TVP) is a vegetarian's friend, but it can also benefit thrifty meat lovers. 2  Made of soy protein, TVP can be used as a substitute for meat, or it c…. 1 Made of soy protein, TVP can be used as a substitute for meat, or it c…. 2  You Want Me to Eat What: Textured Vegetable Protein It is pretty common for an someone to admit to their dislike of vegetables. 3  Typically, when an individual dislikes vegetables it is safe to assume they do not get enough of t….
TVP can be made from soy flour or concentrate, containing 50% and 70% soy protein, respectively; they have a mild beany flavor. Both require rehydration before use, sometimes with flavoring added in the same step. Using TVP, one can make vegetarian or vegan versions of traditionally meat-based dishes, such as chili con carne, spaghetti bolognese, sloppy joes, tacos, burgers, or burritos. Soy protein can also be used as a low cost/high nutrition extender in comminuted meat and poultry products, and in tuna salads.
Textured vegetable protein was invented by the agricultural commodities and food processing company Archer Daniels Midland in the 1960s; the company owns the TVP name as a registered trademark. Archer Daniels Midland had developed a textured soy protein isolate made with an extruder in the shape of rods or tubes. Using TVP, one can make vegetarian or vegan versions of traditionally meat-based dishes, such as chili con carne, spaghetti bolognese, sloppy joes, tacos, burgers, or burritos. Soy protein can also be used as a low cost/high nutrition extender in comminuted meat and poultry products, and in tuna salads.