[A] To make a connection to a PC from a DSL or Cable modem you will need to use a CAT 5 patch cable, or a CAT 5e patch cable. The Cat 5 patch cable is what is called a straight through cable, and is the proper cable to use for this application. If you are using a DSL or Cable router, you would still use a CAT 5 patch cable, or a CAT 5e patch cable to connect the DSL or Cable modem to the router. Patch Cables are used to connect devices to each other in a network environment
Connecting a PC, Server, or Workstation. To connect a PC (or other Ethernet devices) to an Ethernet switch port, follow these steps: Step 1 Connect one end of the yellow Ethernet cable to an Ethernet switch port on the router. Step 2 Connect the other end of the cable to the RJ-45 port on the network interface card (NIC) that is installed in the PC, server, or workstation. Step 3 (Optional) Connect additional servers, PCs, or workstations to the other Ethernet switch ports. To connect an external Ethernet switch to an Ethernet switch port on the router, perform these steps: Step 1 Connect one end of the yellow Ethernet cable to an Ethernet switch port on the router. Figure 3-2 shows a Cisco 888W router connected to an Ethernet switch.
Once you connect the Ethernet cable, OS X automatically configures your connection using DHCP. If your Internet connection doesn't work, check with your ISP or network provider to see if additional configuration is needed, such as for a PPoE connection. If your Mac doesn't include a built-in Ethernet port, you can use an adapter to connect the Ethernet cable to the USB or Thunderbolt port on your computer.
PC to Router = Ethernet Cross-Over  Both of these devices are expecting to connect to a switch. When  connecting them together, we need to use a cross-over cable so that  t … he transmit pair from 1 device, goes to the receiving pair of the  other device. There are several ways to connect two routers together. I'm assuming this question is referring to an ethernet cable. However, the most common way is with a serial crossover cable, in which one router is the DCE and the other router is the DTE.
An Ethernet cable is the most common type of network cable used on a wired network whether at home or in any other business establishment. This cable connects wired devices together to the local network for file sharing and Internet access. Linksys routers use Ethernet cables to connect to the modem via its Internet or WAN port and get Internet access for the devices connected behind them, wired or wireless. They also feature four (4) Ethernet ports that you can use to directly connect your wired devices and extend your home network. 1 Remove the cables from the router and the Ethernet devices and reconnect them. 2  Make sure that they snugly fit into the ports. 3  Check that the Ethernet cables you are using are not loose and broken. 4  If so, get another cable. 5  Check the status of the computer’s Ethernet adapter. 6  To learn how, click here.
2. Hi Tomasz. The port I am connecting to is a 10/100 Ethernet port-hence the reason I can use a straight thru cable. I guess the question was aiming at connecting a PC to a router via the console port which would then require a crossover cable. Thanks for your quick reply
Modem to Router. The Ethernet cable from the broadband modem should go to the router’s WAN or Internet port. Router to wired devices. The Ethernet cables from your Ethernet-based devices should go to any of the numbered ports at the back of the Linksys router (1, 2, 3 or 4). 1 Remove the cables from the router and the Ethernet devices and reconnect them. 2  Make sure that they snugly fit into the ports. 3  Check that the Ethernet cables you are using are not loose and broken. 4  If so, get another cable. 5  Check the status of the computer’s Ethernet adapter. 6  To learn how, click here.
Generally, a modem has one LAN port (to connect to a router's WAN port, or to an Ethernet-ready device) and one service-related port, such as a telephone port (DSL modems) or a coaxial port (cable modems), that connects to the service line. 
Plug in Router 1. Connect your high-speed modem to the WAN port if you have one. Connect Computer 1 using either a wired LAN connection or a WLAN connection. 1  Log into the router using your credentials. 2  Check and see what the IP is; most routers default to 192.168.0.1 or 192.168.1.1. 