What you'll pay up front: Around $500 to $550 for single-gym access, or $770 for multiple gyms. Breaking it down: The above cost includes the prorated amount for January, the full month of February, and an initiation fee: $200 for single-gym, $400 for multiple. The 80th and Broadway location; Photo: NYSC Marathon. ↑ New York Sports Club. What you'll pay monthly: Generally, $65 to $80 per month, depending on whether you're getting a core membership with access to one gym or a passport membership with access to all Sports Club locations, including those in other cities.
1 At some Equinox clubs, Tier 4 training costs at least $100 for each session. 2  Data at Racked NY shows that the startup cost at Equinox is $200 for a single club and $300 for all access. 3  The site adds that monthly rates vary by location and may cost $160 to $175 for one location or $195 to $250 for global access. 1 When necessary, a member may apply for a freeze of their membership once per contractual year for up to 3 months. 2  This means that you will be able to stop going to the gym and stop paying the monthly fee without having to sign back up and pay another initiation fee. 3  Equinox is primarily a gym for health and fitness.
↑ Planet Fitness. What you'll pay monthly: $10 for access to one gym or $19.99 for all locations, plus tax. What you'll pay up front: Between $10 and $20, plus tax. Breaking it down: Depending on your membership plan and home gym, you'll pay between nothing and a $10 startup fee through at least January 30th. The 80th and Broadway location; Photo: NYSC Marathon. ↑ New York Sports Club. What you'll pay monthly: Generally, $65 to $80 per month, depending on whether you're getting a core membership with access to one gym or a passport membership with access to all Sports Club locations, including those in other cities.
Equinox Fitness is a fitness center with several locations around the United States including New York, Boston, Chicago and other cities around the country. Apart from the main Equinox fitness center, the company also has two other brands, namely Blink Fitness and PURE Yoga. Membership Fees. The membership fees for Equinox varies and will depend on several factors including your location, membership type and if there are any special offers available at the time of your application. On the average the monthly membership is $120 to $165, and the signup fee can be $0 if there’s a promo or up to $600. Those who sign up for Equinox will have access to numerous group exercise classes such as dance, kickboxing, sculpt, spinning and yoga among others
1 For access to multiple Equinox Fitness clubs across the country, the monthly rate is $195 and the initiation fee is $200. 2  An article at Marketwatch.com states that membership prices at Equinox starts at around $1,000 annually while training fees start at $100 per session. 1 When necessary, a member may apply for a freeze of their membership once per contractual year for up to 3 months. 2  This means that you will be able to stop going to the gym and stop paying the monthly fee without having to sign back up and pay another initiation fee. 3  Equinox is primarily a gym for health and fitness.
1 Data at Racked NY shows that the startup cost at Equinox is $200 for a single club and $300 for all access. 2  The site adds that monthly rates vary by location and may cost $160 to $175 for one location or $195 to $250 for global access. 3  Equinox has different membership options. 1 When necessary, a member may apply for a freeze of their membership once per contractual year for up to 3 months. 2  This means that you will be able to stop going to the gym and stop paying the monthly fee without having to sign back up and pay another initiation fee. 3  Equinox is primarily a gym for health and fitness.
1 For example, signing up to access the Equinox Wall St. location only requires a monthly rate of $160 and an initiation fee of $100. 2  For access to multiple Equinox Fitness clubs across the country, the monthly rate is $195 and the initiation fee is $200. 1 When necessary, a member may apply for a freeze of their membership once per contractual year for up to 3 months. 2  This means that you will be able to stop going to the gym and stop paying the monthly fee without having to sign back up and pay another initiation fee. 3  Equinox is primarily a gym for health and fitness.
What you'll pay up front: Roughly between $120 and $220. Breaking it down: With a core membership, skip the initiation fee right now and just pay the initial processing fee of $50 for an up-front total around $120. The 80th and Broadway location; Photo: NYSC Marathon. ↑ New York Sports Club. What you'll pay monthly: Generally, $65 to $80 per month, depending on whether you're getting a core membership with access to one gym or a passport membership with access to all Sports Club locations, including those in other cities.