The Mexican beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum) is the most famous of the four species of venomous beaded lizards found principally in Mexico and southern Guatemala. The beaded lizard has a forked, black tongue which it uses to smell, with the help of a Jacobson's organ; it sticks its tongue out to gather scents and touches it to the opening of the organ when the tongue is retracted.
Facts and Information. With more than 5,600 species of Lizards in the world there is definitely plenty of differences to take a look at. Yet there are also enough similarities that they all fall under the same umbrella in some areas. The smallest ones are only a few centimeters long with the largest species tipping the scales around 10 feet. All species of Lizards are reptiles and all of them have tails. All Lizards are cold blooded so they need to live in areas where it is warm. Yet they don’t have to live only in the desert regions like so many people think.
You might not think of lizards as venomous reptiles, but the fact is many species of lizards do produce venom. Scientists believe up to 100 of the approximately 5,000 known lizard species have some form of venom. The majority of these venomous lizards pose no threat to humans, though. Though poison and venom are often used interchangeably, and though both rely on the transmission of toxins from one organism to another, poison and venom are different concepts. Poisonous animals, like poison dart frogs, have a toxin that is present on or in their bodies.
Threatened throughout its range by overcollection and habitat loss, it is a CITES protected species. The Guatemalan beaded lizard (H. charlesborgeti) is one of the rarest lizards in the world, with a wild population of fewer than 200. The beaded lizard has a forked, black tongue which it uses to smell, with the help of a Jacobson's organ; it sticks its tongue out to gather scents and touches it to the opening of the organ when the tongue is retracted.
Considerable overlap in toxins exists between venomous snake species and venomous lizard species. While the system of delivery differs -- snakes inject venom through sophisticated fangs while lizards have more primitive glands that mix venom with saliva -- the common toxins suggest a shared lineage. Though poison and venom are often used interchangeably, and though both rely on the transmission of toxins from one organism to another, poison and venom are different concepts. Poisonous animals, like poison dart frogs, have a toxin that is present on or in their bodies.
The Gila Monster and Mexican Beaded Lizard are two venomous lizards, but there are more! The most well known venomous lizards are the Gila Monster and the Mexican Beaded Lizard. They are found in North America, specifically in south-western United States and Mexico. These lizards are classified in the Family Helodermatidae which has one genus containing only these two species. These two poisonous lizards have been steeped in mythology, probably because of their secretive lifestyles.
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum). Tim FlachStone/Getty Images. The only two poisonous lizards in the world are the Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) of the southwestern United States and the beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum) of Mexico. 
For many years scientists believed only two species of truly venomous lizard existed: the Gila monster and the Mexican beaded lizard. Both of these species are members of the Helodermatidae family and both are native to the Sonoran desert of North America. Though poison and venom are often used interchangeably, and though both rely on the transmission of toxins from one organism to another, poison and venom are different concepts. Poisonous animals, like poison dart frogs, have a toxin that is present on or in their bodies.
The Skinks family is the largest class of Lizard species. There are more than 1,300 species that belong to this particular classification. They are the smaller types of Lizards that have long tails and move very quickly. All species of Lizards are reptiles and all of them have tails. All Lizards are cold blooded so they need to live in areas where it is warm. Yet they don’t have to live only in the desert regions like so many people think.
There are few animals on earth which have as frightening an appearance for their size as some lizards! Yet of all the more than 2,500 different kinds of lizards, only two are actually poisonous. These are the Gila monster, which lives in American deserts, and the beaded lizard of Mexico. Lizards are closely related to snakes, and, like snakes, are cold-blooded reptiles with scaly skins. There are others called ‘monitors’, which are more than 2 meters long. In the East Indies there are lizards called “dragons”, which are as much as 3 meters long, and must be a frightening sight, indeed. These dragons can easily kill a large animal with one lash of their long, strong tails.