Elastase is a serine protease that also hydrolyzes amides and esters. It is produced in the pancreas as an inactive zymogen, and activated in the duodenum by trypsin. The following information applies to porcine elastase. An adsorption complex between elastase and its substrate is formed, followed by nucleophilic attack (S214) to form an acyl-enzyme intermediate, and release of the first product (the C-terminal end of the substrate).
Porcine pancreatic elastase is composed of a single peptide chain of 240 amino acids, and contains 4 disulfide bridges (Sawyer et al. 1973). It has a high degree of sequence identity with pancreatic elastases from other species, such as rat with whom it shares 86% identity (MacDonald et al. 1982). An adsorption complex between elastase and its substrate is formed, followed by nucleophilic attack (S214) to form an acyl-enzyme intermediate, and release of the first product (the C-terminal end of the substrate).
The ELANE gene provides instructions for making a protein called neutrophil elastase. This protein is found in neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that plays a role in inflammation and in fighting infection. When the body starts an immune response to fight an infection, neutrophils release neutrophil elastase. More than 15 mutations in the ELANE gene have been found to cause cyclic neutropenia, a condition characterized by episodes of neutrophil shortages (neutropenia) and increased risk of infection. ELANE gene mutations that cause cyclic neutropenia change single protein building blocks (amino acids) in
Elastase: An enzyme that digests and degrades a number of proteins including elastin, an elastic substance in the lungs and some other organs that supports their structural framework. Elastase is specifically inhibited by alpha-1 antitrypsin. See also: Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. 
Neutrophil elastase is closely related to other cytotoxic immune serine proteases, such as the granzymes and cathepsin G. It is more distantly related to the digestive CELA1. The neutrophil form of elastase (EC 3.4.21.37) is 218 amino acids long, with two asparagine-linked carbohydrate chains (see glycosylation). It is present in azurophil granules in the neutrophil cytoplasm
Problems with the pancreas may be detected via ultrasound. Pancreatic elastase is a protein produced by the pancreas to help break down food remains. A pancreas that is not performing correctly may cause bloating and watery stools. The pancreas gland produces pancreatic elastase, a protein that aids in digestion. Elastases are members of a family of serine proteases. Reflux symptoms in the esophagus can be a sign that the pancreas is not performing properly.
Neutrophil elastase (EC 3.4.21.37, leukocyte elastase, ELANE, ELA2, elastase 2, neutrophil, elaszym, serine elastase) is a serine proteinase in the same family as chymotrypsin and has broad substrate specificity. Secreted by neutrophils and macrophages during inflammation, it destroys bacteria and host tissue. It is more distantly related to the digestive CELA1. The neutrophil form of elastase (EC 3.4.21.37) is 218 amino acids long, with two asparagine-linked carbohydrate chains (see glycosylation).
Dermaval inhibits elastase activity by Nutraceuticals World. a leader in fluorescence in vivo imaging from research through medicine, announced the commercial launch of two new imaging agents -- ProSense 750 FAST for expanded versatility in imaging cathepsin activity, and Neutrophil. A serine proteinase hydrolyzing elastin; other elastase-like enzymes have been identified, for example, pancreatic elastase (pancreatopeptidase E) and leukocyte elastase (lysosomal or neutrophil elastase), with different sequences and kinetic parameters; all have fairly broad specificities.