Membership Fees. XSport Fitness offers some of the most flexible membership plans there is, and it even comes with a thirty day money back guarantee for all members to avail. XSport Fitness prices start at a around $49 on average at almost all locations. We at XSport Fitness recognize the desire of all our members to enjoy a healthy lifestyle and achieve a fit and trim physique, which is why our organization strives to provide and totally enjoyable, clean, and fun environment.
BEST FOR: Nose-to-the-grindstone exercisers and people who want personal training. AMENITIES: Cafe, café, childcare free, parking. Wifi started here 15 years, XSport Xsport fitness now has 24 locations in and Around, chicago including many in the suburbs and three Smaller express (sites just$.9 95 a). month The gym also offers CrossFit classes, the hardcore boot camp workout, for a higher membership fee (starting at $125 a month). Socializing while working out is even an option: At Friday night’s Vinyasa and Vino, unwind with.
COST: $65 to $80 a month; $99 to $260 initiation fee. BEST FOR: Someone who wants the features of a luxury gym without a full range of nonfitness. AMENITIES: Cafe, café, childcare free, parking-wi. Fi This-chicago only chain opened its first gym in 1984 and now has nine. locations The gym also offers CrossFit classes, the hardcore boot camp workout, for a higher membership fee (starting at $125 a month). Socializing while working out is even an option: At Friday night’s Vinyasa and Vino, unwind with.
XSport Fitness. Buy a year, get a YEAR FREE ends May 31st. If you have a friend or family member thinking about joining a gym, now is the time. Share a guest pass and earn rewards points when they join... http://www.xsportfitness.com/guestpass/refer-guestpass.aspx. Share a guest pass-Get rewards pointsGuest Pass includes a one week FREE membership, body fat testing, a FREE personal training session,and one FREE week of tanning.
How much is the enrollment fees and also the monthly fee for an Xsport Fitness membership? The location near me (Chicago on Elston) is advertising 2 for 1 enrollment. I was wondering how much that would cost for my fiance and I. Source(s): xsport fitness membership cost: https://tinyurl.im/fXkPs.
Our facilities provide value to our members that is unparalleled in the industry. As our members pursue their goal of a healthy lifestyle, we strive to provide them with an enjoyable, uplifting, comfortable and clean environment in which to exercise, train, tan and have fun. We offer quality educational programs, state-of-the-art equipment, certified personal trainers, plus a professional staff committed to help our members reach their goals. When entering an XSport Fitness facility, members walk into an exciting and dynamic atmosphere.
one solution, is only pay cash for your membership. If you give them cash, don't give them a credit or debit card at all. That way, in order to renew, they need to get ahold of you. with no card on file, they can't bill you or renew your membership. I had an xsport membership and like you, I had to write a letter to cancel. I never understood with this technological day and age, they couldn't just click a button on the computer that said cancel.