The Litmus Test. The small, rectangular, red or blue paper strips of litmus paper are chemically treated so that they change color under certain conditions. For example, if a red piece of litmus paper is put in a base, it will turn blue. On the other hand, a blue piece of litmus paper put in an acid will turn red. If you have a gas or a liquid with a neutral pH level, neither the red nor blue litmus paper will change color when introduced to the substance in question.
The acidity or alkalinity of a substance is measured using the pH scale. A high pH represents a substance which is alkaline and a low pH represents a substance that is acidic. In order to test the pH of a substance special paper is used that changes color when reacting with the material. Acidic substances turn the paper shades of red/orange, while alkaline substances turn the paper shades of blue/green. A neutral pH will turn the paper yellow. The main ingredient in household bleach is sodium hypochlorite. This is usually diluted with water to a concentration of approximately 5 percent. The pH of this solution is approximately 11. This means that it is very alkaline and pH paper will turn dark blue/purple when it makes contact with household bleach.
• LITMUS (noun). The noun LITMUS has 1 sense: 1. a coloring material (obtained from lichens) that turns red in acid solutions and blue in alkaline solutions; used as a very rough acid-base indicator. Familiarity information: LITMUS used as a noun is very rare.
Hypernyms (litmus test is a kind of...): acid-base indicator (an indicator that changes color on going from acidic to basic solutions). Holonyms (litmus test is a substance of...): litmus paper (unsized paper treated with litmus for use as an acid-base indicator). 1. a coloring material (obtained from lichens) that turns red in acid solutions and blue in alkaline solutions; used as a very rough acid-base indicator. 2. a test that relies on a single indicator. Familiarity information: LITMUS TEST used as a noun is rare.
Definition of LITMUS. 1. : a coloring matter from lichens that turns red in acid solutions and blue in alkaline solutions and is used as an acid-base indicator. 2. : the critical factor in a litmus test; also: litmus test. ADVERTISEMENT. 
litmus paper is widely used to distinguish between acids and bases. So widespread is the use of litmus in testing whether a solution or gas is acidic or basic, that the concept of a litmus test has spread to include any simple but definitive test. Politicians are always calling political issues a litmus test.
litmus-a coloring material (obtained from lichens) that turns red in acid solutions and blue in alkaline solutions; used as a very rough acid-base indicator. litmus test. acid-base indicator-an indicator that changes color on going from acidic to basic solutions. 
Litmus paper is red, litmus paper is blue, put these papers in a liquid or a gas and its hydrogen ion concentration will shine true. Litmus paper, or pH paper, is a tool that scientists use to discover whether a liquid or gas is an acid or a base. You can use litmus paper to see whether bleach is an acid or a base by examining what color the paper turns. On the other hand, a blue piece of litmus paper put in an acid will turn red. If you have a gas or a liquid with a neutral pH level, neither the red nor blue litmus paper will change color when introduced to the substance in question.
Litmus Paper Definition: Filter paper which has been treated with a natural water-soluble dye obtained from lichens. The resulting piece of paper, called ' litmus paper ', can be used as a pH indicator. Blue litmus paper turns red under acidic conditions (pH below 4.5) while red litmus paper turns blue under alkaline conditions (pH above 8.3). 