Original Sin is the sin inherited by all humankind from Adam in his disobedience of God’s command not to eat from the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge. The Original Sin event is referred to as “The Fall of Man.”. Jesus is the perfect sacrifice that atones for all of our sins. Jesus, in his complete humanity and complete divinity, is the only sacrifice that could make up for a fallen human nature. God’s first covenant with humanity, through Adam, was broken through the original sin.
From the Catechism of the Catholic Church : Adam and Eve transmitted to their descendants human nature wounded by their own first sin and hence deprived of original holiness and justice; this deprivation is called original sin. The theory of evolution states that we (as Homo Sapiens) gradually evolved from other creatures. Religion is an attempt to reconnect us with God and the Catholic Faith does it by baptism which wipes away the stain of original sin (which allows us to get into Heaven), but leaves its effects (death and passing it on to our children).
Original sin, also called ancestral sin, is the Christian doctrine of humanity's state of sin resulting from the fall of man, stemming from Adam's rebellion in Eden. original sin is called sin only in an analogical sense: it is a sin contracted and not committed—a state and not an act (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 404). This state of deprivation of the original holiness and justice ...
Today, the Church supports theistic evolution (ism), also known as evolutionary creation, although Catholics are free not to believe in any part of evolutionary theory. According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, any believer may accept either literal or special creation within the period of an actual six day, twenty-four hour period, or they may accept the belief that the earth evolved over time under the guidance of God.
I know the Church allows us to accept evolution (despite any shortcomings with abiogenesis) but still requires belief in the creation of man by God and therefore in God's creation in Adam (from which we all descend and subsequently inherit his original sin). Religion is an attempt to reconnect us with God and the Catholic Faith does it by baptism which wipes away the stain of original sin (which allows us to get into Heaven), but leaves its effects (death and passing it on to our children).
Catholic schools in the United States and other countries teach evolution as part of their science curriculum. They teach the fact that evolution occurs and the modern evolutionary synthesis, which is the scientific theory that explains how evolution proceeds. According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, any believer may accept either literal or special creation within the period of an actual six day, twenty-four hour period, or they may accept the belief that the earth evolved over time under the guidance of God.
According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church (CCC), the doctrine of original sin is in some sense the reverse side of the doctrine of Redemption (CCC 389). In Genesis 2-3, God created man in His Image and established our first parents-Adam and Eve-in His friendship. Many people today deny the reality of original sin. Modern thinkers claim that evolution disproves it. Some object to the idea of inheriting sin from our parents, while others simply deny sin itself. Some Christians claim that the Bible never teaches it and so on.
The concept of original sin was first alluded to in the 2nd century by Irenaeus, Bishop of Lyons in his controversy with certain dualist Gnostics. original sin is called sin only in an analogical sense: it is a sin contracted and not committed—a state and not an act (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 404). This state of deprivation of the original holiness and justice ...
It is an important doctrine within the Roman Catholic Church. The concept of Original Sin was explained in depth by St Augustine and formalised as part of Roman Catholic doctrine by the Councils of Trent in the 16th Century. Original sin is not just this inherited spiritual disease or defect in human nature; it's also the 'condemnation' that goes with that fault. Original sin is a condition, not something that people do: It's the normal spiritual and psychological condition of human beings, not their bad thoughts and actions. Even a newborn baby who hasn't done anything at all is damaged by original sin.
Original sin standeth not in the following of Adam (as the Pelagians do vainly talk), but it is the corruption of the nature of every man, that naturally is engendered of the offspring of Adam, whereby man is very far gone from original righteousness, and of his own nature inclined to evil, and that continually. original sin is called sin only in an analogical sense: it is a sin contracted and not committed—a state and not an act (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 404). This state of deprivation of the original holiness and justice ...