The two most common causes of peptic ulcers are: 1  Infection with Helicobacter pyloriHelicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria. 2  Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few get ulcers. 3  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 1 Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few get ulcers. 2  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 3  When used for weeks or months, NSAIDs can damage the lining of the digestive tract, causing an ulcer or making an existing ulcer worse.
1 Infection with Helicobacter pyloriHelicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria. 2  Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few get ulcers. 3  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 1 Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few get ulcers. 2  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 3  When used for weeks or months, NSAIDs can damage the lining of the digestive tract, causing an ulcer or making an existing ulcer worse.
Peptic ulcer disease (PUD), also known as a peptic ulcer or stomach ulcer, is a break in the lining of the stomach, first part of the small intestine, or occasionally the lower esophagus. An ulcer in the stomach is known as a gastric ulcer while that in the first part of the intestines is known as a duodenal ulcer. The most common symptoms are waking at night with upper abdominal pain or upper abdominal pain that improves with eating.
Healthwise. Medical Reference. A. The two most common causes of peptic ulcer disease are infection with Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria and use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few of them will develop peptic ulcer disease. 
Common causes include the bacteria, Helicobacter pylori and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Other less common causes include tobacco smoking, stress due to serious illness, Behcet disease, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, Crohn disease and liver cirrhosis, among others. An ulcer in the stomach is known as a gastric ulcer while that in the first part of the intestines is known as a duodenal ulcer. The most common symptoms are waking at night with upper abdominal pain or upper abdominal pain that improves with eating.
The two most common causes of peptic ulcers are: 1  Infection with Helicobacter pyloriHelicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria. 2  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 1 Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few get ulcers. 2  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 3  When used for weeks or months, NSAIDs can damage the lining of the digestive tract, causing an ulcer or making an existing ulcer worse.
Treatment of peptic ulcer disease should include eradication of H. pylori in patients with this infection (Table 419,21–25) . The recommended duration of therapy for eradication is 10 to 14 days; however, shorter treatment courses (regimens of one, five, and seven days) are being assessed. Approximately 500,000 persons develop peptic ulcer disease in the United States each year. 1 In 70 percent of patients it occurs between the ages of 25 and 64 years. 2 The annual direct and indirect health care costs of the disease are estimated at about $10 billion.
1 Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 2  When used for weeks or months, NSAIDs can damage the lining of the digestive tract, causing an ulcer or making an existing ulcer worse. 3  NSAIDs include aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen. 1 Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few get ulcers. 2  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 3  When used for weeks or months, NSAIDs can damage the lining of the digestive tract, causing an ulcer or making an existing ulcer worse.
In this article. Peptic ulcer disease refers to painful sores or ulcers in the lining of the stomach or first part of the small intestine, called the duodenum. No single cause has been found for ulcers. However, it is now clear that an ulcer is the end result of an imbalance between digestive fluids in the stomach and duodenum. Most ulcers are caused by an infection with a type of bacteria called Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori).