In this article. Tapeworms are flat segmented worms that live in the intestines of some animals. Animals can become infected with these parasites when grazing in pastures or drinking contaminated water. Eating undercooked meat from infected animals is the main cause of tapeworm infection in people. 
Save to mypetMD. Learn about the different types of worms in dogs (and cats) here ... roundworms, tapeworms, hookworms, whipworms. Your veterinarian can check your pet's stool sample to be certain pets do not harbor intestinal parasites such as you see here. 
Pinworm infection is transmitted when eggs are ingested through contact with contaminated feces or with clothing or surfaces harboring eggs. Rarely, the worms can infect the female reproductive tract or other sites. Schoolchildren and institutionalized people are at greater risk of developing a pinworm infection. A remarkable variety of worms can infect humans in the United States. These worms may be round or flat, short or long, with suckers or with three lips.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The term “parasitic worms” refers to different types of “worms” that can live in people’s bodies. They often cause serious health problems, including death. The main types of parasitic worms that can infect people are flukes, roundworms, and tapeworms. Here’s some basic information about each of these three types of parasitic worms. Flukes – These parasitic worms are sometimes called “flatworms”. They are shaped like little, flattened footballs
Worms can gorge themselves in the human gut for months or years before they are detected, causing everything from a poor-night's sleep to life-threatening intestinal blockages and malnutrition. There are hundreds of types of worms (helminths) that infect humans worldwide. 
A. Roundworms and hookworms can be transmitted from pets to humans. Thousands of people in the U.S. become infected with roundworms and hookworms every year. Humans become infected with roundworms when they ingest infective eggs from the soil or from their hands or another object. Large numbers of the eggs can accumulate in the soil where dogs and cats are allowed to defecate. The eggs are sticky, and can collect on the hands and under the fingernails of people
Roundworms – These parasitic worms tend to look like pieces of spaghetti, or like white earthworms. There are many different types of roundworms that can live in people’s bodies. They can vary in size, from being barely visible, to about four feet (about 1.2 meters) long. The main types of parasitic worms that can infect people are flukes, roundworms, and tapeworms. Here’s some basic information about each of these three types of parasitic worms.
Roundworms are very commonly found in pets and animals such as dogs and cats and can be easily passed on to humans. Roundworms live in salt water, fresh water and the soil. Eating contaminated foods or getting worms from contaminated pets is the most usual way to get roundworms (a category of worms). Hookworms and pinworms are often the most common types of roundworms found in humans. It is estimated that there are over 100 different types of parasitic worms that can be found living in humans. The word Parasite itself comes from the old Greek word Parastos meaning a person or thing, which eats at someone else's table.
Worms live in a variety of habitats: some worms live in the earth such as earthworms, others live in water such as the leeches and others live in a human host such as tapeworms. The worms that live in humans or in animals are known as parasites. Parasites always live in or on their host. It is estimated that there are over 100 different types of parasitic worms that can be found living in humans. The word Parasite itself comes from the old Greek word Parastos meaning a person or thing, which eats at someone else's table.