Serratia Marcescens symptoms are very similar regardless of what disease the bacterium causes. Some common diseases include Serratia Sepsis, Serratia plymuthica, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia rubidaea, Serratia odorifera, and Serratia fonticola. Premature children and infants with an existing diagnosis of sepsis, or after experiencing some kind of head surgery or neurosurgery may develop meningitis caused by Serratia Marcescens with symptoms including headache, fever, vomiting, stupor and may result in coma.
Serratia: Introduction. Serratia: An infectious disease caused by bacteria from the Serratia genus. The bacteria can cause urinary tract infection, pneumonia, respiratory tract infections, endocarditis, osteomyelitis, septicemia, eye infection, meningitis and wound infections. Misdiagnosis and Serratia. Antibiotics often causes diarrhea: The use of antibiotics are very likely to cause some level of diarrhea in patients. The reason is that antibiotics kill off not only bad bacteria, but can also kill the good bacteria in the gut. This...
Serratia species are opportunistic gram-negative bacteria classified in the tribe Klebsielleae and the large family Enterobacteriaceae. Serratia are widespread in the environment, but are not a common component of the human fecal flora. Serratia marcescens is the primary pathogenic species of Serratia. Rare reports have described disease resulting from infection with Serratia plymuthica, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia rubidaea, Serratia odorifera, and Serratia fonticola. 
Serratia Marcescens symptoms are commonly associated with urinary tract infections, but in 30% to 50% of reported cases, there are no symptoms to assist diagnosis. Premature children and infants with an existing diagnosis of sepsis, or after experiencing some kind of head surgery or neurosurgery may develop meningitis caused by Serratia Marcescens with symptoms including headache, fever, vomiting, stupor and may result in coma.
While S. marcescens is a rare cause of community-acquired infections, it has emerged as an important nosocomial healthcare-associated pathogen and a frequent source of outbreaks of hospital infection (72), in both adult (122) and paediatric patients (115). Of all Serratia species, S. marcescens is the most common clinical isolate and the most important human pathogen. S. marcescens is credited with a long fanatical history dating back to antiquity, when, because of its ability to produce a red pigment it was described as having ‘masqueraded’ as blood (36).
Once considered a harmless saprophyte, Serratia marcescens is now recognized as an important opportunistic pathogen combining a propensity for healthcare-associated infection and antimicrobial resistance. Serratia marcescens is a member of the genus Serratia, which is a part of the family Enterobacteriaceae. Currently 14 species of Serratia are recognized within the genus, eight of which are associated with human infection (67). Of all Serratia species, S. marcescens is the most common clinical isolate and the most important human pathogen. S. marcescens is credited with a long fanatical history dating back to antiquity, when, because of its ability to produce a red pigment it was described as having ‘masqueraded’ as blood (36).
Serratia Marcescens is also commonly found in respiratory tract infection. Here it can occur after some form of instrumentation associated with a hospital or doctor visit like ventilation or bronchoscopy. It is most common in patients with COPD – chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Premature children and infants with an existing diagnosis of sepsis, or after experiencing some kind of head surgery or neurosurgery may develop meningitis caused by Serratia Marcescens with symptoms including headache, fever, vomiting, stupor and may result in coma.
Serratia marcescens is a species of rod-shaped gram-negative bacteria in the family Enterobacteriaceae. Due to this, and because S. marcescens produces a reddish-orange tripyrrole pigment called prodigiosin, it may cause staining of the teeth.
S. marcescens may also be found in environments such as dirt, supposedly sterile places, and the subgingival biofilm of teeth. Due to this, and because S. marcescens produces a reddish-orange tripyrrole pigment called prodigiosin, it may cause staining of the teeth. The biochemical pathway for the production of prodigiosin by S. marcescens is unknown except for the final two steps
S. marcescens is implicated in a wide range of serious infections including pneumonia (51), lower respiratory tract infection (112), urinary tract infection (53), bloodstream infection, wound infection and meningitis (72, 74). Of all Serratia species, S. marcescens is the most common clinical isolate and the most important human pathogen. S. marcescens is credited with a long fanatical history dating back to antiquity, when, because of its ability to produce a red pigment it was described as having ‘masqueraded’ as blood (36).