Function of the prostate gland. As part of the male reproductive system, the prostate gland’s main purpose is to secrete a slightly alkaline fluid that forms part of the seminal fluid, a fluid that carries sperm. The prostate gland is about the size of a walnut. It's located just below the bladder and it surrounds the urethra (a tube that carries urine and semen out of the body). The prostate is partly muscular and partly glandular, with ducts opening into the prostatic portion of the urethra.
The prostate gland is a male reproductive organ whose main function is to secrete prostate fluid, one of the components of semen. The muscles of the prostate gland also help propel this seminal fluid into the urethra during ejaculation. The prostate is a muscular gland that weighs about three-fourths of an ounce (20 grams) about the size of a small apricot. It surrounds the urethra just beneath the bladder
Side View of the Prostate. The prostate is a walnut-sized gland located between the bladder and the penis. The prostate is just in front of the rectum. The urethra runs through the center of the prostate, from the bladder to the penis, letting urine flow out of the body. 
Seminal gland. The seminal gland, more commonly referred to as the seminal vesicle, holds the liquid that mixes with sperm to form semen. Semen combines fluid elements from the epididymis, seminal vesicles, prostate gland, and vas deferens. Each body part plays a key role in semen production. The fluids help the sperm swim towards the egg and keep the sperm nourished during the transit process. This gland is located behind the bladder, above the prostate gland, and in front of the rectum. It is about two inches long, on average. This gland releases a fluid rich in sugars (especially fructose), which feeds the sperm. The fluid also has clotting properties that make the semen sticky.
The seminal gland, more commonly referred to as the seminal vesicle, holds the liquid that mixes with sperm to form semen. This gland is located behind the bladder, above the prostate gland, and in front of the rectum. It is about two inches long, on average. This gland releases a fluid rich in sugars (especially fructose), which feeds the sperm. The fluid also has clotting properties that make the semen sticky.
The function or role of the prostate gland … is to secrete a slightly acidic fluid, milky or white in appearance, that usually constitutes 50-75% of the volume of the semen along with spermatozoa and seminal vesicle fluid! 7 people found this useful. The function of the seminal vesicles (correct spelling) is to store sperm and semen from the testicles prior to ejaculation.
The accessory glands of the male reproductive system are the seminal vesicles, prostate gland, and the bulbourethral glands. These glands secrete fluids that enter the urethra. The prostate gland is a firm, dense structure that is located just inferior to the urinary bladder. It is about the size of a walnut and encircles the urethra as it leaves the urinary bladder. Numerous short ducts from the substance of the prostate gland empty into the prostatic urethra.
The seminal vesicles (Latin: glandulae vesiculosae), vesicular glands, or seminal glands, are a pair of simple tubular glands posteroinferior to the urinary bladder of some male mammals. Seminal vesicles are located within the pelvis. The seminal vesicles are a pair of glands that are positioned below the urinary bladder and lateral to the vas deferens. Each vesicle consists of a single tube folded and coiled on itself, with occasional diverticula in its wall.
Seminal Fluid. Seminal fluid, or semen, is a slightly alkaline mixture of sperm cells and secretions from the accessory glands. Secretions from the seminal vesicles make up about 60 percent of the volume of the semen, with most of the remainder coming from the prostate gland. The prostate gland is a firm, dense structure that is located just inferior to the urinary bladder. It is about the size of a walnut and encircles the urethra as it leaves the urinary bladder. Numerous short ducts from the substance of the prostate gland empty into the prostatic urethra.