1 a female who is attractive with the exception of her face. 2  In other words, everything is attractive but-her-face.. 3  See more words with the same meaning: attractive female. 4  See more words with the same meaning: unattractive, ugly female.
noun. 1  a female who is attractive with the exception of her face. 2  In other words, everything is attractive but-her-face.. 3  See more words with the same meaning: attractive female. 4  See more words with the same meaning: unattractive, ugly female.
1 Added remark: I live in Dublin and would spell that girl was bru' , as instead of  brew  in your example, what sounds like [bru] could be a short version of brutal. 2  Usual slang expression she's brutal as in very unattractive. 3  See more words with the same meaning: unattractive, ugly.
noun. 1  a female who is attractive with the exception of her face. 2  See more words with the same meaning: attractive female. 3  See more words with the same meaning: unattractive, ugly female.
1 very unattractive or unpleasant to look at; offensive to the sense of beauty; displeasing in appearance. 2  disagreeable; unpleasant; objectionable:ugly tricks; ugly discords. 3  morally revolting:ugly crime. 4  threatening trouble or danger:ugly symptoms. 5  mean; hostile; quarrelsome:an ugly mood; an ugly frame of mind.
1 acronym of big ugly fat fucker  - that is, an extremely large and unattractive person. 2  See more words with the same meaning: acronyms (list of) . 3  See more words with the same meaning: overweight, obese, fat person.
1. beautiful. 1  very unattractive or unpleasant to look at; offensive to the sense of beauty; displeasing in appearance. 2  disagreeable; unpleasant; objectionable:ugly tricks; ugly discords. 3  morally revolting:ugly crime. 4  threatening trouble or danger:ugly symptoms.
1 That girl was brew. 2  Added remark: I live in Dublin and would spell that girl was bru' , as instead of  brew  in your example, what sounds like [bru] could be a short version of brutal. 3  Usual slang expression she's brutal as in very unattractive. 4  See more words with the same meaning: unattractive, ugly.
noun. 1  an unattractive person from the Bush, i.e. the country-side of Australia. 2  See more words with the same meaning: rural dweller. 3  See more words with the same meaning: unattractive, ugly person (either gender) .