A constitutional monarchy, limited monarchy or parliamentary monarchy (also called a crowned republic) is a form of government in which governing powers of the monarch are restricted by a constitution. 
Monarchy |ˈmaenərkē; ˈmänərkē-| ˈmaenˌaer (ˈmänˌär. -noun): Pl chies a form of government with a monarch at. The head a state that has. A monarch the monarch and royal family of: a country the monarchy is the focus of loyalty. and service A state that has a monarch. The monarch and royal family of a country: the monarchy is the focus of loyalty and service. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French monarchie, via late Latin from Greek monarkhia ‘the rule of one.’. A monarchy is a dictatorship government ruled by one King or by one Queen.
A form of government in which law-making power is given to a single person, usually holding such authority by birthright and not by merit. Related Terms: Government, Tyranny, Democracy, Crown, Theocracy, Royal Prerogative, Rex Nunquam Moritur, Oligarchy. 
Today, the extent of a monarch's powers varies: 1  In an absolute monarchy, the monarch rules as an autocrat, with absolute power over the state and government — for example, the right to rule by decree, promulgate laws, and impose punishments. When the monarch has no or few legal restraints in state and political matters, it is called an absolute monarchy and is a form of autocracy. Cases in which the monarch's discretion is formally limited are called constitutional monarchies.
A monarchy is a form of government in which sovereignty is actually or nominally embodied in one or several individual(s) reigning until death or abdication. They are called the monarchs. When the monarch has no or few legal restraints in state and political matters, it is called an absolute monarchy and is a form of autocracy. Cases in which the monarch's discretion is formally limited are called constitutional monarchies.
Absolute Monarchy. An absolute monarchy is a form of government in which the ruling monarch enjoys absolute control without limitations from a constitution or from law. In this form of government, the monarch is the head of state and head of government with unrestricted political power. In most instances, power transmits either through marriage or heredity to offspring of the ruling monarch.
A monarchy is a form of government that has a single person known as a monarch at its head. Monarchs use such titles as king, queen, emperor, or empress. Monarchies were once common throughout the world, but now they are rare. Monarchs generally reign for life. 
monarchy. A form of government headed by a hereditary ruler, such as a king or queen, or a country with this form of government. mon•ar•chy. 1. a government or state in which the supreme power is actually or nominally lodged in a monarch. 2. supreme power or sovereignty held by a single person. 3. the fact or state of being a monarchy. See also: Government.
Full Definition of MONARCHY. 1. : undivided rule or absolute sovereignty by a single person. 2. : a nation or state having a monarchical government. 3. : a government having a hereditary chief of state with life tenure and powers varying from nominal to absolute. See monarchy defined for English-language learners. Definition of MONARCHY for Kids. 1. : a state or country having a king or queen. 2. : a form of government headed by a king or queen.