The Elks had modest beginnings in 1868 as a social club for minstrel show performers, called the Jolly Corks. It was established as a private club to elude New York City laws governing the opening hours of public taverns. The Elks originally borrowed a number of rituals, traditions, and regalia from the Freemasons. However, by the first decade of the twentieth century, much of this had been abandoned as the Elks sought to establish their own identity.
1 Elks in Alexandria, Va., hold a soup kitchen at the Lodge each weekday at lunch, serving 30 people, many of whom are veterans. 2  Wheeling, W.Va., Elks Lodge hosts local youth once a week for a wholesome meal. 3  They also provide homework help and invite community leaders to speak at the meals. Elks Lodges bring so much more to their communities than just a building, golf course or pool. They are places where neighbors come together, families share meals, and children grow up.
This is to remind you that with Elks, the hour of eleven has a tender significance. Wherever Elks may roam, whatever their lot in life may be, when this hour falls upon the dial of night, the great heart of Elkdom swells and throbs. The Elks originally borrowed a number of rituals, traditions, and regalia from the Freemasons. However, by the first decade of the twentieth century, much of this had been abandoned as the Elks sought to establish their own identity.
It was probably the center of the black community at one time, said Becky Bailey, an employee of the Washington County controller's office and once active in the lodge's womens group, Western Star Temple No. 3. Founded in 1900, the lodge was the first Black Elks branch in Pennsylvania and the sixth worldwide. Its women's group, 100 years old tomorrow, is the third oldest IBPOEW auxiliary in the world. During the era of segregation, the lodge was one of the few places in Washington black men and women could socialize. 
The Elks Mutual Benefit Association was founded in 1878. At the 1885 Grand Lodge it was reported that the EMBA was prosperous, but its finances were carelessly managed. The Association was disbanded after the 1907 Grand Lodge passed a resolution banning mutual or insurance features, as well as degrees and auxiliaries. The Elks originally borrowed a number of rituals, traditions, and regalia from the Freemasons. However, by the first decade of the twentieth century, much of this had been abandoned as the Elks sought to establish their own identity.
The former Elks Lodge (B.P.O. E. #54) is a historic building in Lima, Ohio, United States. The lodge was the fifty-fourth of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks to be chartered; it is the largest lodge in Ohio. It is located within the Ohio West Central District No. 7120. The original lodge building, built in 1909, has been sold and is now used by Tabernacle Baptist Church. 
The object of this brief History is to set forth the real facts of the Origin of the Order of ELKS. (This was copied from a publication from Bath Lodge # 1547, N.Y. by Exalted Ruler William Kastner, December 1986). 
Despite its 1907 resolution banning auxiliary, the Elks at one point had a youth affiliate for young men called the Antlers. The first chapter was organized in February 1922 by San Francisco Lodge #3. The Elks originally borrowed a number of rituals, traditions, and regalia from the Freemasons. However, by the first decade of the twentieth century, much of this had been abandoned as the Elks sought to establish their own identity.
The Heritage of the past is the seed that brings forth the harvest of the future. This website will hopefully serve as a visual journey through the rich history of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks from inception in 1868 until the late 1940's. To the left is the inscription on the entrance columns to our National Archives which is located in Washington DC. 