Thus, an intimate mixture of solute and solvent is called a solution. Solutions that contain water as the solvent are called aqueous solutions. For example, sugar in water, carbon dioxide in water, etc. 
Squash (also called cordial) is a non-alcoholic concentrated syrup used in beverage making. It is usually fruit-flavoured, made from fruit juice, water, and sugar or a sugar substitute. Modern squashes may also contain food colouring and additional flavouring. Squash is mixed with a certain amount of water or carbonated water before drinking. As a drink mixer, it may be combined with an alcoholic beverage to prepare a cocktail (see preparation). Citrus fruits (particularly orange, lime and lemon) or a blend of fruits and berries are commonly used as the base of squash
One example of a solution is salt water which is a mixture of water and salt. You cannot see the salt and the salt and water will stay a solution if left alone. Parts of a Solution. Dissolving. A solution is made when one substance called the solute dissolves into another substance called the solvent. Dissolving is when the solute breaks up from a larger crystal of molecules into much smaller groups or individual molecules. This break up is caused by coming into contact with the solvent.
(Subtle differences in usage between the two terms are covered in  the article).  Cordial (candy), a type of candy, in which a fruit filling is  placed within a chocolate shell  quash (drink), an extremely sweet non-alcoholic fruit flavoured  drink concentrate that is diluted with water to taste. It is most  popular in the UK, Australia and New Zealand. Cordial may refer to:   Cordial may refer to:   Squash (drink), an extremely sweet non-alcoholic fruit  flavoured drink concentrate that is diluted with water to taste. … It  is most popular in the UK, Australia and New Zealand.   Syrup may refer to a similar beverage in the United  States.
A colloid is a type of mixture intermediate between a homogeneous mixture (also called a solution) and a heterogeneous mixture with properties also intermediate between the two. The particles in a colloid can be solid, liquid or bubbles of gas. 
Cordial, diluted juice, and squash are similar products, although the products known as cordials tend to be thicker and stronger, requiring less syrup and more water to be blended. High juice is not a brand of squash but rather a type that contains a larger amount of juice, around 45%. Squash is mixed with a certain amount of water or carbonated water before drinking. As a drink mixer, it may be combined with an alcoholic beverage to prepare a cocktail (see preparation). Citrus fruits (particularly orange, lime and lemon) or a blend of fruits and berries are commonly used as the base of squash
The cordial will be just as good without them. Sugar is added to cordial in the form of sugar syrup, which is traditionally equal parts sugar and water. For instance, if you use 1 litre of water, add one litre of sugar, or for one cup of water, add one cup of sugar. This is boiled gently until the sugar dissolves completely. You could make just about any cordial with sugar syrup and fruit-either juiced or chopped up.
Elderflower syrup can be used in all types of drinks and cocktails: 1  Diluted to taste with fizzy water, and served over ice with a slice or two of lemon, or a sprig of mint, floating on top. 2  A tablespoon of syrup in a glass of cooled sparkling wine is just delicious. 
Solutions A solution is a mixture that contains one or more substances (the solute) dissolved in another (the solvent). The solute must therefore be soluble; that is, it must be able to dissolve. The solute in a solution can be a solid, a liquid or a gas; the solvent is a liquid. For example, carbon dioxide gas and solid sugar dissolved in water form the basis of a ﬁzzy drink. Water is a good solvent, because many substances dissolve in it. Solutions that contain water as the solvent are called aqueous solutions. In a solution, the particles of one substance (the solute) are spread evenly throughout the other (the solvent). The particles of the solute are too small to be seen. You can tell if a mixture is a solution by holding it up to the light. In this case, the mixture is known as a colloid. A colloid is not clear like a solution, and the particles in it do not settle out as in a suspension. Instead, the particles of one substance are spread evenly throughout the other. There are many types of colloid.