If you are automatically enrolled in Medicare, you have up to three months after your 65 th birthday or 25 th month of disability to decide if you would like keep your Medicare coverage. If you decide to keep Medicare Part A and Part B you do not need to do anything.
You automatically get Part A and Part B the month your disability benefits begin. expand icon I live in Puerto Rico and get benefits from Social Security or the RRB. You automatically get Part A. If you want Part B, you need to sign up for it.
1. During your Initial Enrollment Period. Your first chance to sign up for Medicare starts three months before your 65th birthday, includes the month you turn 65, and ends three months after the month you turn 65. These seven months are called the
Once you’re eligible for Medicare, you’ll have an initial enrollment period to sign up for Medicare. For most people, the initial enrollment period starts 3 months before their 65th birthday and ends 3 months after their 65th birthday.
You can sign up for Medicare beginning three months before you turn 65, and coverage can start as soon as the first day of your birthday month. The initial enrollment period lasts until three months after your 65th birthday.
You will be automatically enrolled in Medicare Parts A and B effective the month you turn 65. If you do not receive Social Security benefits, then you will need to sign up for Medicare by calling the Social Security Administration at 800-772-1213 or online at http://www.socialsecurity.gov/medicareonly/ . It is best to do it as early as possible so your coverage begins as soon as
Medicare has a seven-month period in which you can sign up for Part B, which covers doctor bills and other outpatient medical costs. This period begins three months before the month of your 65th birthday, includes the month you turn 65 and ends three months after your birthday month.
During your Initial Enrollment Period. Your first chance to sign up for Medicare starts three months before your 65th birthday, includes the month you turn 65, and ends three months after the month you turn 65.
The Initial Enrollment Period (IEP) is the first time you can sign up for Medicare. You may join Medicare Parts A, B, C and D during this time: 1  The 3 months before your 65th birthday, 2  The month of your birthday, and. 3  The 3 months after your birthday.