To increase your intake of unsaturated fats, try replacing other fatty foods with these 5 items: Olive oil is full of healthy unsaturated fats. 1 Tbsp. of oil has almost 12 grams of unsaturated fat and only 2 grams of the saturated stuff. In addition, olive oil provides a heart-friendly dose of both omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. Mix it with vinegar to create salad dressings and use it to cook meat or veggie
Nuts. Nuts are a great source of energy and nutrients. They are high in unsaturated fats, providing protection against cardiovascular disease. Foods rich in protein typically contain a high amount of saturated (bad) fat (beef, pork, dairy). Nuts are a good non-meat source of protein and therefore low in saturated fat. Nuts make great snacks to keep you full between meals. Seeds, like nuts, are great sources of unsaturated fat, nutrients and fiber. Seeds make great snacks that keep you full between meals preventing cravings, binge eating and excessive calorie intakes. Flax seeds are a very healthy type of seed which contain fiber, vitamins/minerals and omega-3 fatty acids.
1 This is a type of fat that comes mainly from animal sources of food, such as red meat, poultry and full-fat dairy products. 2  Saturated fat raises total blood cholesterol levels and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels, which can increase your risk of cardiovascular disease. 1 Polyunsaturated fat. 2  This is a type of fat found mostly in plant-based foods and oils. 3  Evidence shows that eating foods rich in polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) improves blood cholesterol levels, which can decrease your risk of heart disease. 4  PUFAs may also help decrease the risk of type 2 diabetes. 5  Omega-3 fatty acids.
An unsaturated fat is a fat or fatty acid in which there is at least one double bond within the fatty acid chain. A fatty acid chain is monounsaturated if it contains one double bond, and polyunsaturated if it contains more than one double bond. Thus, a saturated fat has no double bonds, has the maximum number of hydrogens bonded to the carbons, and therefore is saturated with hydrogen atoms. In cellular metabolism, unsaturated fat molecules contain somewhat less energy (i.e., fewer calories) than an equivalent amount of saturated fat.
1 Eat foods high in unsaturated fats like fatty fish (salmon, mackerel, tuna) instead of meats high in saturated fat. 2  Incorporate foods high in polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats like avocados, nuts, and olive oil into your salads instead of using products high in saturated fats like mayonnaise based dressings. 1 Canola, olive, and peanut oils, and avocados are sources of monounsaturated fat. 2  Both types of unsaturated fats may help lower your blood cholesterol level when used in place of saturated fat in your diet.
1 Saturated fat. 2  This is a type of fat that comes mainly from animal sources of food, such as red meat, poultry and full-fat dairy products. 3  Saturated fat raises total blood cholesterol levels and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels, which can increase your risk of cardiovascular disease. 1 Polyunsaturated fat. 2  This is a type of fat found mostly in plant-based foods and oils. 3  Evidence shows that eating foods rich in polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) improves blood cholesterol levels, which can decrease your risk of heart disease. 4  PUFAs may also help decrease the risk of type 2 diabetes. 5  Omega-3 fatty acids.
Avocados are full of unsaturated fats and low in saturated fat. Their smooth creamy texture makes them a great sandwich replacement for mayonnaise or cheese. For parties, mash avocados together with a small amount of onion, garlic, tomato, cilantro and lime juice to make a crowd-pleasing guacamole. 1 Tbsp. of oil has almost 12 grams of unsaturated fat and only 2 grams of the saturated stuff. In addition, olive oil provides a heart-friendly dose of both omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids.
Omega-6 fats have been shown to decrease the risk of heart disease when they are consumed in place of saturated and trans fats. Omega-6 fat sources include: 1  margarine spreads. 2  sunflower, soybean, sesame oils. 3  nuts (such as walnuts, pecans, brazil and pine nuts). 4  sunflower seeds. Monounsaturated fats. Food sources of monounsaturated fats include: 1  olive oil. 2  canola oil. 3  peanut oil. 4  nuts.
Unsaturated fats have been shown to improve health when used in place of other fats. There are two types of unsaturated fats, polyunsaturated and monounsaturated, both of which are liquid at room temperature. 1 Tbsp. of oil has almost 12 grams of unsaturated fat and only 2 grams of the saturated stuff. In addition, olive oil provides a heart-friendly dose of both omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids.