When injected into the body, gadolinium contrast medium makes certain tissues, abnormalities or disease processes more clearly visible on a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. Gadolinium based contrast medium is sometimes called an MRI contrast medium or agent. 
Gadolinium is a silvery-white malleable and ductile rare-earth metal. It crystallizes in hexagonal, close-packed α-form at room temperature, but, when heated to temperatures above 1235 °C, it transforms into its β-form, which has a body-centered cubic structure. Gadolinium as a phosphor is also used in other imaging. In X-ray systems, gadolinium is contained in the phosphor layer, suspended in a polymer matrix at the detector. Terbium-doped gadolinium oxysulfide (Gd 2 O 2 S: Tb) at the phosphor layer converts the X-rays released from the source into light.
Gadolinium is a contrast agent solution used during an MRI or magnetic resonance imaging. Commonly used to detect tumors in the body and brain, Gadolinium is injected into the bloodstream where it highlights the features of the body and displays any abnormal growths when exposed to MRI scanning. The solution is colorless, resembling clear water and is non-radioactive
Gadolinium is used in alloys of iron and chromium to improve resistance to high temperatures and oxidation. Gadolinium is used to make gadolinium yttrium garnets which have microwave applications. Gadolinium compounds are used as green phosphors in color television picture tubes. Because of its magnetic properties, gadolinium is also used in intravenous radiocontrast agents in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Naturally occurring gadolinium is a mixture of seven isotopes and they are found in the percentages shown: 152 Gd (0.2%), 154 Gd (2.2%), 155 Gd (14.8%), 156 Gd (20.5%), 157 Gd (15.7%), 158 Gd (24.8%) and 160 Gd (21.9%). The most abundant isotope is 158 Gd at 24.8%.
Yes, MRI and MRA can be performed without contrast. MRI with gadolinium-based contrast agents provides additional diagnostic information as compared to MRI without contrast. The use of gadolinium-based contrast agents in MRA is not FDA approved. MRA with gadolinium-based contrast is thought by many radiologists to provide more detailed images of blood vessels than MRA without gadolinium-based contrast.
Gadolinium is a metal found in contrast agents (dyes) that are used in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedures, including a procedure called magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Since 1988, five gadolinium-based contrast agents (GBCAs) have been approved by the FDA. Gadolinium-based Contrast Agents. Gadolinium-based contrast agents are used in a variety of MRI-based procedures. Gadolinium is easy to see due to its bright appearance, allowing doctors to identify certain bodily tissues.
Gadolinium has the greatest ability to capture thermal neutrons of all known elements and can be used as control rods for nuclear reactors. Unfortunately, the two isotopes best suited for neutron capture, gadolinium-155 and gadolinium-157, are present in gadolinium in small amounts. 
The following uses for gadolinium are gathered from a number of sources as well as from anecdotal comments. I'd be delighted to receive corrections as well as additional referenced uses (please use the feedback mechanism to add uses). 
Gadolinium is a chemical element with symbol Gd and atomic number 64. It is a silvery-white, malleable and ductile rare-earth metal. It is found in nature only in combined (salt) form. Gadolinium was first detected spectroscopically in 1880 by de Marignac who separated its oxide and is credited with its discovery. Gadolinium as a phosphor is also used in other imaging. In X-ray systems, gadolinium is contained in the phosphor layer, suspended in a polymer matrix at the detector. Terbium-doped gadolinium oxysulfide (Gd 2 O 2 S: Tb) at the phosphor layer converts the X-rays released from the source into light.
Gadolinium-based contrast agents are approved by FDA for use with MRI as a contrast agent to provide an improved image of body organs and tissues. Gadolinium-based contrast agents are also used for MRA, another imaging procedure used to evaluate blood vessels. 3. The use of gadolinium-based contrast agents in MRA is not FDA approved. MRA with gadolinium-based contrast is thought by many radiologists to provide more detailed images of blood vessels than MRA without gadolinium-based contrast.