In 1911 the existence of the atomic nucleus was discovered by  Ernest Rutherford through his interpretation of the gold foil  experiment conducted two years earlier by Hans … Geiger and Ernest  Marsden. In 1932 Dmitry Ivanenko proposed the proton-neutron model  of the nucleus. Answered. They provide evidence Pangea existed because mountain belts along  the margins of North America, Africa and Europe line up as well and  have similar rock types, indication t … hat the continents at one time  were joined as Pangea.
Answered in Physical Science. In an atomic model that includes a nucleus, positive. charge is. a. concentrated in the center of an atom. b. spread evenly throughout an atom. c. concentrated at multiple sites in an atom. d. located in the space outside the nucleus. 
Which of the following provided evidence that most of the mass of the atom as well as all of the positive charge is concentrated in a very small core the nucleus? The familiar alpha particle scattering by thin gold foil experiment has given evidence for the existence of hard nucleus at the central region of the atom.
For example, a helium atom has an atomic mass of 4, but an atomic number (or positive charge) of 2. Since electrons have almost no mass, it seemed that something besides the protons in the nucleus were adding to the mass. 
In 1911 the existence of the atomic nucleus was discovered by  Ernest Rutherford through his interpretation of the gold foil  experiment conducted two years earlier by Hans … Geiger and Ernest  Marsden. In 1932 Dmitry Ivanenko proposed the proton-neutron model  of the nucleus. Answered. In Science. The familiar alpha particle scattering by thin gold foil experiment has given evidence for the existence of hard nucleus at the central region of the atom.
A guy by the name of Bohr created a model for the atom that consisted of an small nucleus surrounded by orbiting electrons. There was an assumption that the electrons, literally orbited the nucleus in a similar way to how planets orbit a star. The term nucleon refers to particles in the nucleus, i.e. protons and neutrons. The mass number of an atom is the sum of the nucleons in an atom. The atomic number is the number of protons.
This suggested that there is some electrically neutral particle that has mass inside the atom. The existence of isotopes is evidence for neutrons. The term nuclide refers to a specific isotope. The term nucleon refers to particles in the nucleus, i.e. protons and neutrons. The mass number of an atom is the sum of the nucleons in an atom. The atomic number is the number of protons.
Question and answer. How does the currently accepted model of the nucleus provide evidence of the existence of the strong nuclear force. The current accepted model of the atomic nucleus is composed of a number of protons and neutrons. 
The number of nucleons in a nucleus is the number of. The emission and absorption spectra of different elements provides evidence for the existence of. The nucleus of an atom contains protons. 