ber·serk. adj. 1. Destructively or frenetically violent: a berserk worker who started smashing all the windows. 2. adj → wild; to go berserk → wild werden; (audience) → aus dem Haeuschen häuschen (geraten) , → inf zu toben; (= anfangen go) → mad (ueberschnappen) , → überschnappen inf. [verrueckt] verrückt werden bəˈsɜːk adj → to go berserk; (dare in) → escandescenze with anger andare or montare su. tutte le furie
If a soldier survives the berserk state, it imparts emotional deadness and vulnerability to explosive rage to his psychology and permanent hyperarousal to his physiology — hallmarks of post-traumatic stress disorder in combat veterans. Berserkers (or berserks) were Norse warriors who are primarily reported in the Old Norse literature to have fought in a nearly uncontrollable, trance-like fury, a characteristic which later gave rise to the English word berserk. Berserkers are attested to in numerous Old Norse sources.
Definition of BERSERK. 1. : an ancient Scandinavian warrior frenzied in battle and held to be invulnerable. 2. Full Definition of BERSERK. — berserk adverb. — ber·serk·ly adverb. See berserk defined for English-language learners. See berserk defined for kids.
More. A berserker was an ancient Norse warrior who fought with wild, uncontrolled ferocity—he went berserk. The name came from an old Scandinavian word, berserkr, which probably meant ‘bear coat’ or ‘bearskin’, a suitably rugged garment for a terrifyingly unhinged Viking. 
Analysis: Berserk. One of the best-known dark fantasy series, and the progenitor of the realistic style that would find its way into Demon's Souls, Kentaro Miura's Berserk is a bit of a two-faced animal.
• BERSERK (noun). The noun BERSERK has 1 sense: 1. one of the ancient Norse warriors legendary for working themselves into a frenzy before a battle and fighting with reckless savagery and insane fury. Familiarity information: BERSERK used as a noun is very rare.
Berserk (Japanese: ベルセルク, Hepburn: Beruseruku) is a manga series written and illustrated by Kentaro Miura. Set in a medieval Europe-inspired dark fantasy world, the story centers on the characters of Guts, a lone mercenary, and Griffith, the leader of a mercenary band called the Band of the Hawk. Both the manga and anime are noted for their heavy violence. Miura premiered a prototype of Berserk in 1988. The first volume of the manga was published on November 26, 1990 by Hakusensha in its Jets Comics collection. In 1992, after the publication of three more volumes, Berserk began serialization in Young Animal
1. frenziedly violent or destructive (esp in the phrase go berserk). n. 2. (Norse Myth & Legend) Also called: berserker a member of a class of ancient Norse warriors who worked themselves into a frenzy before battle and fought with insane fury and courage. adj → wild; to go berserk → wild werden; (audience) → aus dem Haeuschen häuschen (geraten) , → inf zu toben; (= anfangen go) → mad (ueberschnappen) , → überschnappen inf. [verrueckt] verrückt werden bəˈsɜːk adj → to go berserk; (dare in) → escandescenze with anger andare or montare su. tutte le furie