Aodh is alike in pronunciation to Aad, Ad and Ade. Other suggested similar baby names are Aadi, Addy, Adi and Ado. Like Aodh, these names are not frequently used. It is of Scottish, Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Aodh is fire. Modern form of the Old Gaelic name Aed. Mythology: name of the Celtic sun god. It was a common personal name since long ago, and from the later Middle Ages onwards, was commonly anglicized as Hugh and Eugene.
See also the related form, Mackey (English, Irish, and Scottish). Aodh is rarely used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. In 2012, out of the group of boy names directly linked to Aodh, Ayden was the most regularly used. Baby names that sound like Aodh include Arry, Ea, Eah, Iau, Iaue, Ihe, Ihu, Iwi, Yue, Iayne, Ihaia, and Iwao. Aodh is used chiefly in the Irish and Scottish languages, and it is derived from Celtic origins. The name's meaning is fire, brightness, splendor. It is derived from the element 'aed' meaning fire. Áed (áed) celtic is an original form Of. aodh
Notes: Research turned up several way to pronounce this Irish name-- eh, ee, and ay. Tags: irish &nbsp&nbsp commonly mispronounced &nbsp&nbsp. 
Aodh /aodh/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced ee. It is of Scottish, Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Aodh is fire. Modern form of the Old Gaelic name Aed. Mythology: name of the Celtic sun god. It was a common personal name since long ago, and from the later Middle Ages onwards, was commonly anglicized as Hugh and Eugene.
It depends on the person. Some say Ay-Tee-Ay-Tee because of other walkers, like the AT-ST, AT-PT and AT-AA. Others say At-At (@-@) because it's more efficient to use just tw … o syllables rather than four syllables. I use to say Ay-Tee-Ay-Tee Walker, but now I just just say At-At Walker for the last 10-12 years. Here's a guide, if you want to say All Terrain Armored Transport, say Ay-Tee-Ay-Tee
[ 1 syll. ao - (d)(h) , aod-h ] The baby boy name Aodh is pronounced as IY †. Aodh is used chiefly in the Irish and Scottish languages, and it is derived from Celtic origins. The name's meaning is fire, brightness, splendor. It is derived from the element 'aed' meaning fire. Áed (áed) celtic is an original form Of. aodh
-- Anonymous User 11/7/2008. Irish is a different language. It was not made with the intention of clashing or coordinating with the English language. Irish uses an entirely different set of sounds and letters, thus creating a clash between Irish and English. Just because a name sounds a certain way in English doesn't mean it sounds the same way in Irish.
At any rate, I doubt the Irish spell an expression of fear/disgust Aodh, or even have the same sound for it. The name Aodh is a wonderful name; it is simple and beautiful and not too complex in pronunciation, even for Americans. Irish uses an entirely different set of sounds and letters, thus creating a clash between Irish and English. Just because a name sounds a certain way in English doesn't mean it sounds the same way in Irish.
In the pronunciation box you'll see a play button to listen to the audioclip recorded by real people (not speech synthesis! they're Forvo users, male or female, from anywhere in the globe), the language of that word and the country of the user. Plus you can view images related to the word or name you're searching for, it comes in handy in case you're not sure or you don't even know what it means or looks like: you can also select the tabs above (photos, faces, clip art and drawings).