1 Insert the tip of the SIM eject tool (or a small bent paperclip) into the small hole next to the SIM card tray slot. 2  Push the tip all the way into the hole until the SIM card tray ejects. 3  Pull the SIM card tray out, and place the SIM card (contacts facing down) into the tray. 4  Insert the SIM card tray back into the slot.
Inserting or removing the microSD and Micro SIM cards on the HTC One Remix are identical, however. To open up the slots, you’ll need the SIM ejection tool that HTC sends with your HTC One Remix. You’ll poke that in the hole next to the SIM card or SD card slot to pop open the tray then pull it out. Now just place your SIM card or SD card on the tray and put it back into the One Remix. Make sure to put it in the right way.
Your HTC Windows Phone 8X has its SIM card slot on the top right side. Take the paper clip and insert its into the small hole next to the slot. The SIM tray will pop out. Take it out completely and fit in the micro SIM in the tray.
Important: Use a standard micro SIM only. Inserting other types (such as nano SIM with an adapter or a modified SIM) may cause the card to not fit properly or damage the card slot. 1  Hold the phone face up. 2  Insert the tip of the SIM eject tool (or a small bent paperclip) into the small hole next to the SIM card tray slot.
1 Insert the tip of the SIM eject tool (or a small bent paperclip) into the small hole next to the SIM card tray slot. 2  Push the tip all the way into the hole until the SIM card tray ejects. 3  Pull the SIM card tray out, and remove the SIM card.
1 In the top slot, insert a nano SIM card with its gold contacts facing up and its cut-off corner facing in, and then push it until it clicks in place. 2  To close the slot cover, slide the plastic hinge into the side and press the cover until it clicks into place.
Removing the SIM card. Important: Make sure to switch off HTC One mini before removing your SIM card. 1  Hold the phone face up and the top panel facing you. 2  Insert the tip of the SIM eject tool (or a small bent paperclip) into the small hole next to the SIM card tray slot. 3  Push the tip all the way into the hole until the SIM card tray ejects.