Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. How much your Social Security disability benefit will be is based on your covered earnings -- the wages that you paid Social Security taxes on -- prior to becoming disabled. (Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) is the federal insurance program that provides benefits to qualified workers who can no longer work. To give you an idea of what you might receive, for 2015, the average SSDI benefit amount is $1,165 per month, but you can receive anywhere up to $2,663. If you're interested in how Social Security calculates your AIME and PIA, here's how.
Retirees can elect to receive Social Security benefits starting at age 62 or as late as age 70, although full retirement age is currently set at 65 for most individuals. If an individual elects to take an early benefit, prior to age 65, income is reduced by as much as 30%. 
Work for at least 35 years. Social Security benefits are calculated based on the 35 years of your career in which you earn the most. If you haven't worked for at least 35 years, zeros are averaged into the calculation, which will lower your payout. Wait until your full retirement age. To get the full payout you are entitled to, claim Social Security at your full retirement age. That's age 66 for most baby boomers and 67 for people born in 1960 or later. If you sign up before your full retirement age, your monthly payments will be permanently reduced.
The best way to start planning for your future is by creating a my Social Security account online. With my Social Security, you can verify your earnings, get your Social Security Statement, and much more – all from the comfort of your home or office. We have a variety of calculators to help you plan for the future. Which calculator you choose depends on what you want to do. 
The amount of money you will receive from Social Security on a monthly basis is unique for every individual. This is due to the fact that the Social Security Administration (SSA) uses a complex weighted formula in order to calculate benefits for each person, up to the maximum benefit of $2,663 (in 2015). Share on Google Plus. If you are eligible for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI, or sometimes just SSD) benefits, the amount you receive each month will be based on your average lifetime earnings before your disability began. It is not based on how severe your disability is or how much income you have.
Three steps to calculate social security benefits. 1  First, a worker’s previous earnings are restated in terms of today’s wages to reflect wage growth. 2  Second, earnings for the highest 35 years are averaged and divided by the number of months in 35 years to arrive at Average Indexed Monthly Earnings (AIME). 1 Second, earnings for the highest 35 years are averaged and divided by the number of months in 35 years to arrive at Average Indexed Monthly Earnings (AIME). 2  Third, the Social Security benefit formula is applied to AIME to produce the Primary Insurance Amount (PIA), the benefit payable at the Full Retirement Age (FRA) 
If you qualify for Social Security benefits, here's how the SSA determines the amount of your monthly check. 1. Total earnings: The SSA determines the total amount you earned in the 35 years during which you made the most money, up to a maximum amount per year. The limit is adjusted for inflation -- in 1951, the limit was $3,600. In 2015, it's $118,500. If you worked fewer than 35 years, the missing years are counted as zero
1 First, a worker’s previous earnings are restated in terms of today’s wages to reflect wage growth. 2  Second, earnings for the highest 35 years are averaged and divided by the number of months in 35 years to arrive at Average Indexed Monthly Earnings (AIME). 1 Second, earnings for the highest 35 years are averaged and divided by the number of months in 35 years to arrive at Average Indexed Monthly Earnings (AIME). 2  Third, the Social Security benefit formula is applied to AIME to produce the Primary Insurance Amount (PIA), the benefit payable at the Full Retirement Age (FRA) 