The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane) is a biological membrane that separates the interior of all cells from the outside environment. The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The cell membrane (or plasma membrane or plasmalemma) surrounds the cytoplasm of living cells, physically separating the intracellular components from the extracellular
The structure that surrounds the cytoplasm in a bacterial cell is the A. plasma membrane. B. ribsosome. C. nucleoid. D. cell wall. The structure that surrounds the cytoplasm in a bacterial cell is the: A. plasma membrane. 
The cell wall surrounds the plasma membrane and protects the cell from changes in water pressure. The bacterial cell wall consists of peptidoglycan (or murein), a polymer consisting of NAG and NAM and short chains of amino acids. Penicillin interferes with peptidoglycan synthesis. 
Cell Membrane. The answer is the cell membrane. The cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer that completely surrounds a bacterial cell. The word 'completely' is important here because any break in the bilayer will lead to the death of the bacteria. 
All bacteria have a bilayer membrane that surrounds the cytoplasm. Integral membrane proteins within the cytoplasmic membrane are required to transport nutrients (sugars and amino acids) into the cell for growth. Most bacteria have a cell wall that is made up of peptidoglycan. The cytoplasm of a bacterial cell contains the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) molecules that make up the bacterial genome (or nucleoid), the transcriptional machinery that copies DNA into ribonucleic acid (RNA), and the ribosomes that translate the messenger RNA information into protein sequence.
The cell envelope encases the cytoplasm and all its components. Unlike the eukaryotic (true) cells, bacteria do not have a membrane enclosed nucleus. The chromosome, a single, continuous strand of DNA, is localized, but not contained, in a region of the cell called the nucleoid. All the other cellular components are scattered throughout the cytoplasm. Cytoplasm-The cytoplasm, or protoplasm, of bacterial cells is where the functions for cell growth, metabolism, and replication are carried out. It is a gel-like matrix composed of water, enzymes, nutrients, wastes, and gases and contains cell structures such as ribosomes, a chromosome, and plasmids.
Best Answer: c. Plasma membrane is the correct answer. a.Nucleoid-Prokaryotes are characterized by their lack of a ‘’true’’ nucleus. In stead of a nucleus, they have a nucleoid where their genetic material is localized and it found in the cyctoplasm. b.Ribsosome: a sphere-shaped structure found in the cytoplasm of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. d.Cell wall: a rigid layer of polysaccharides enclosing the membrane of plant and prokaryotic cells. Source(s): From the Bio class Image for the bacteria: http://ict-science-to-society.org/Pathog... ethar · 5 years ago.
In gram-negative bacteria, the cell wall is thin and releases the dye readily when washed with an alcohol or acetone solution. Cytoplasm-The cytoplasm, or protoplasm, of bacterial cells is where the functions for cell growth, metabolism, and replication are carried out. It is a gel-like matrix composed of water, enzymes, nutrients, wastes, and gases and contains cell structures such as ribosomes, a chromosome, and plasmids.
Cell wall is a tough, rigid layer that surrounds some types of cells. Cell wall is a characteristic feature to cells of plants, bacteria, fungi, algae and some archaea. It is located outside the cell membrane. The major function of the cell wall is to provide rigidity, tensile strength, structural support, protection against mechanical stress and infection. It also aids in diffusion of gases in and out of the cell.
The cell wall itself is a layered structure in Gram-negative bacteria. All cells have a membrane, which is the essential and definitive characteristic of a cell. Almost all procaryotes have a cell wall to prevent damage to the underlying protoplast. Outside the cell wall, foremost as a surface structure, may be a polysaccharide capsule or glycocalyx. Figure 9.