1 Angus, which are medium-sized black, polled cattle, originating from Angus in Scotland. 2  Angus cattle are known for excellent quality beef, and ability to be used in cross-breeding, such as crossing Angus onto Hereford cows or heifers to get black-baldies. 3  Angus is the most popular beef breed in the United States. Types of cattle that are used for beef: 1  Angus, which are medium-sized black, polled cattle, originating from Angus in Scotland. 2  Angus cattle are known for excellent quality beef, and ability to be used in cross-breeding, such as crossing Angus onto Hereford cows or heifers to get black-baldies.
A Scottish breed of cattle. Formerly called Aberdeen Angus after their place of origin, Angus cattle are among the most commonly used breeds in American beef production. The Black Angus cattle that we see today originated from four Scottish bulls that were brought to Victoria, Kansas. Angus cattle are raised all over the world and generally come in two colors: black and red. Angus Beef standards were developed in 1978. They were brought about in order to indicate particular levels of marbling, tenderness, age and color for the meat that qualified for the Angus Beef label.
Angus cattle, known as Aberdeen Angus in most parts of the world, are a breed of cattle commonly used in beef production. They were developed from cattle native to the counties of Aberdeenshire and Angus in Scotland. Angus cattle are naturally polled and solid black or red although the udder may be white. The main use of Angus cattle is for beef production and consumption. The beef can be marketed as superior due to its marbled appearance. This has led to many markets, including Australia, Japan and the United Kingdom to adopt it into the mainstream.
One of the most successful English breeds of cattle, the Angus has long been the cattle “business” breed. Its black color is highly sought after in crossbreeding programs as a potential seal of Angus quality. Perhaps the most represantitve breed in cowherds, the Angus holds a well earned spot amongst all beef breeds. While the high quality traits of beef are not exclusive in the Angus, their numbers increased due to their consistency in producing quality. There is little lacking in the Angus breed; it meets the needs of a demanding cattle industry on a wide range of points.
These breeds are the Aberdeen-Angus, the Galloway, and the red polled Norfolk and Suffolk breed that is found in England. Polled cattle apparently existed in Scotland before recorded history because the likeness of such cattle is found in prehistoric carvings of Aberdeen and Angus. Some historians feel that the Aberdeen-Angus breed and the other Scottish breeds sprang from the aboriginal cattle of the country and that the breeds as we find them today are indigenous to the districts in which they are still found.
1 The Pure New Zealand Angus cattle were first introduced to New Zealand in 1863 being developed over the 144 years since and are well suited to New Zealand's farming. 2  The Pure New Zealand Angus show great adaptability to the varying conditions of altitude, topography, climate, nutrition and management. 
The native colour is black, but more recently red colours have emerged. The UK registers both in the same herd book, but in the US they are regarded as two separate breeds – Red Angus and Black Angus. Black Angus is the most common breed of beef cattle in the US, with 324,266 animals registered in 2005. The main use of Angus cattle is for beef production and consumption. The beef can be marketed as superior due to its marbled appearance. This has led to many markets, including Australia, Japan and the United Kingdom to adopt it into the mainstream.
Aberdeen-angus is the world’s finest beef breed with world recognition for its quality meat and easy cared for cattle. Find out more about the breed and the benefits of breeding aberdeen-angus cattle for commercial beef farmers. 1. Aberdeen-Angus cattle are famous for their easy to handle, docile nature. Ease of calving and great maternal attributes minimises much of the stress associated with breeding cattle. Beef farming has its challenges and we are all seeking an easier life.