Order Kits. Wilson disease is an inherited progressive disorder of copper metabolism, causing liver, neurological, and psychiatric symptoms. Accurate diagnosis is essential to ensure appropriate treatment in order to prevent and/or reduce the severity of symptoms.
Many cases of Wilson disease may not be inherited but occur as a spontaneous mutation in the gene. The gene for Wilson disease is located on chromosome number 13. The name of the gene is called ATP7B and is thought to be involved in transporting copper.
Definition. Wilson disease, or WD, is a rare inherited disorder that causes excess copper to accumulate in the body. It is also known as hepatolenticular degeneration. Steadily increasing amounts of copper circulating in the blood are deposited primarily in the brain, liver, kidneys, and the cornea of the eyes.
Summary. Wilson's disease (WD) is an inborn error of copper metabolism caused by a mutation to the copper-transporting gene ATP7B. The disease has an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance, and is characterized by excessive copper deposition, predominantly in the liver and brain.
Wilson disease is caused by mutations in the ATP7B gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called copper-transporting ATPase 2, which plays a role in the transport of copper from the liver to other parts of the body.
Wilson disease is an autosomal recessive disease, which means it occurs equally in men and women. In order to inherit Wilson disease, both parents must carry one genetic mutation (abnormal alteration in the gene) that each parent passes to the affected child.
Genetics behind Wilson’s Disease. ATP7B is a gene responsible for transporting copper. It is a member of ATPase transport family that encodes a protein and functions as a monomer or an exporter of copper out from the cells. A mutation in the gene located at chromosome 13 is responsible in developing such disease.
Print. Wilson disease is an inherited progressive disorder of copper metabolism, causing liver, neurological, and psychiatric symptoms. Accurate diagnosis is essential to ensure appropriate treatment in order to prevent and/or reduce the severity of symptoms.
Wilson’s disease is a genetically inherited disorder caused by a mutation in the Wilson disease protein (ATP7B) gene which stops our body from disposing extra copper in our system.