The Community Outreach Coordinator is a full-time 40 hour a week position. The Community Outreach Coordinator reports to the Program and Volunteer Director and is responsible for BCCC outreach and recruitment. 
Simply put--involving volunteers helps you do (and do well)-- what you set out to do. For example, above we talked about some of the problems of having volunteers, such as liability, a lack of reliability, and a tendency of volunteers to not stay long with a given organization. Different agencies choose to screen volunteers in different ways. How you choose to screen your volunteers is especially dependent on what the volunteer will be doing, how much responsibility he/she will have, and the duration for which the volunteer will be working.
Welcome to Victoria's Volunteering Portal. More than 1.5 million Victorians volunteer their time, skills and experience, and in one way or another make a huge contribution to our local communities. Victoria’s Volunteering Portal is a free online resource to support volunteering in Victoria. Resume Pause.
Essential Information. Volunteer coordinators are responsible for recruiting and managing groups of volunteers, as well as individual members of a volunteer organization. They must have strong communication and management skills, since they must work with many different kinds of people. Volunteer Coordinator Job Description. Volunteer coordinators are put in place to ensure that the interests of volunteers are served and that the volunteer organization remains well staffed. They may coordinate and schedule volunteers on an ongoing basis or organize single events
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Volunteer Coordinator in the United States is $48,911, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Volunteer Coordinator in the United States are expected to make less than $48,911. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Volunteer Coordinator that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Volunteer Coordinator are expected to make less than the median.
Women account for the majority of Volunteer Coordinators in the United States. The entire group has an average salary of $35K annually. Earnings sit near $25K on the lower side but can approach $46K per year on the higher side. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Experience and pay tend to be weakly linked for Volunteer Coordinators — those with more experience do not necessarily bring in higher earnings.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Volunteer Coordinator may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Volunteer Coordinator that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Volunteer Coordinator are expected to make less than the median.