1 Most of the thyroxine (T4) in the blood is attached to a protein called thyroxine-binding globulin. 2  Less than 1% of the T4 is unattached. 3  A total T4 blood test measures both bound and free thyroxine. 4  Free thyroxine affects tissue function in the body, but bound thyroxine does not.
Thyroid function tests are blood tests which help to check the function of the thyroid gland. They are mainly used to detect hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) and hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid). Note: the information below is a general guide only.
A thyroid panel is used to evaluate thyroid function and/or help diagnose hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism due to various thyroid disorders. The panel typically includes tests for: 1  Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). 2  Free thyroxine (free T4). 3  Total or free triiodothyronine (total or free T3).
The T4 test is known as the thyroxine test. The TSH test measures the level of thyroid-stimulating hormone in your blood. These are the two most common thyroid function tests and are usually ordered together. They are routinely performed on newborn babies to identify a low-functioning thyroid gland.
Guide. Thyroid hormone tests are blood tests that check how well the thyroid gland is working. The thyroid gland makes hormones that regulate the way the body uses energy. The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped gland that lies in front of your windpipe (trachea), just below your voice box (larynx).
A Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH) blood test is combined with the Free T3 and Free T4 tests to provide the most accurate overview of thyroid function. Test also includes T3 Uptake, T4 and T7.
TESTS. Blood tests to measure TSH, T4, T3 and Free T4 are readily available and widely used. Tests to evaluate thyroid function include the following: TSH TESTS The best way to initially test thyroid function is to measure the TSH level in a blood sample. A high TSH level indicates that the thyroid gland is failing because of a problem that is directly affecting the thyroid (primary hypothyroidism).
Thyroid function tests are used to tell whether your thyroid is working normally. The most common thyroid function tests are: 1  Total, or free T4 (the main thyroid hormone in your blood). 2  TSH (the hormone from the pituitary gland that stimulates the thyroid to produce T4). 3  T3 (also included sometimes).