Root canal is usually painful. When people are told that they need a root canal treatment, they usually think about pain. However, the pain they feel is caused by an infection in the tooth, not by root canal treatment. A root canal is done to eliminate that pain. The root canal procedure itself is painless. A local anesthetic numbs the tooth and the surrounding area. But that does not mean the tooth is okay. Your dentist and endodontist have ways to see if the tooth's pulp is damaged or infected. If it is, then you will need root canal treatment, even if the tooth doesn't hurt. If you see something near a damaged tooth that looks like a pimple, see your dentist.
Endodontic therapy or root canal therapy is a sequence of treatment for the infected pulp of a tooth which results in the elimination of infection and the protection of the decontaminated tooth from future microbial invasion. 
In this article. Root canal therapy is a treatment used to repair and save a tooth that is badly decayed or infected. A root canal procedure is performed when the nerve of the tooth becomes infected or the pulp becomes damaged. During a root canal procedure, the nerve and pulp are removed, and the inside of the tooth is cleaned and sealed. Embed Asset Override. Root canal procedures have the reputation of being painful. 
Root canal treatment (RCT), or endodontic treatment, are the more correct terms for a procedure that treats the nerve of the tooth. Endodontics is a specialty of dentistry that deals specifically with the tooth pulp and tissues surrounding the root of the tooth. The pulp chamber is the hollow part in the center of the tooth that contains the pulp, and it continues down canals that extend through the roots of teeth and into the surrounding bone. Some roots have more than one root canal, but all have at least one canal.
A root canal is needed when the nerve tissue in the tooth is irreversibly damaged, which can happen due to injury. Although a root canal may not be needed immediately following dental trauma, a discoloration or darkening of the tooth over time often indicates a dying nerve that may require root canal treatment. Swelling along the root of the tooth can also occur with the buildup of infection. Eventually the infection finds a place to drain causing a bump on your gum. If you have these symptoms, you should see your dentist for treatment for a root canal.
A root canal is a treatment of the pulp of the tooth that is inflamed, infected, or dead. The pulp is a soft substance in the center of the tooth that consists of nerve, blood vessels, and connective tissue. The pulp chamber is the hollow part in the center of the tooth that contains the pulp, and it continues down canals that extend through the roots of teeth and into the surrounding bone. Some roots have more than one root canal, but all have at least one canal.
Root canal treatment (also called ‘endodontics') is needed when the blood or nerve supply of the tooth (called the ‘pulp') is infected through decay or injury. You may not feel any pain in the early stages of the infection. In some cases your tooth could darken in colour, which may mean that the nerve of the tooth has died (or is dying). This would need root canal treatment.
Reason 1: “Root canals are painful”. You may have heard people say that root canal treatment is very painful, or you may have had such an experience yourself. The most common reason for painful root treatment is that the dentist finds it difficult to make your tooth numb because of an acute abscess. You can read why, and what can be done about it, here: How to numb a Hot Tooth. Root canal treatment is used to save teeth which would otherwise need to be removed. It is needed when the blood or nerve supply of the tooth (known as the pulp) is infected through decay or injury:
Millions of teeth are treated and saved each year with root canal, or endodontic, treatment. Learn how root canal treatment can relieve your tooth pain and save your smile, and find an endodontist in your area. To understand a root canal procedure, it helps to know about the anatomy of the tooth. Inside the tooth, under the white enamel and a hard layer called the dentin, is a soft tissue called the pulp. The pulp contains blood vessels, nerves and connective tissue, and helps to grow the root of your tooth during develop