The Celtic Motherhood Knot is a stylized holy trinity knot depicting a parent and child embrace. It is representative of the Madonna and child. Combined with a Celtic trinity knot it is a true testament to the enduring bond between a mother, her child, faith and their Celtic heritage. The Celtic motherhood symbol looks like 2 hearts made out of knot work. One heart is lower than the first heart and both hearts are intertwined in a continuous knot
Meaning of Triquetra-Trinity Knot-Celtic Triangle. By Gaelyn Larrick. The triquetra is a three part ancient symbol comprised of three interlocked vesica pices, often used to represent people or concepts in groups of three. Also known as the trinity knot and Celtic triangle, it has been found in Celtic art, paganism and also has been used in Christianity. The triquetra symbol has been found on stones, in northern Europe, that date back to before 1,000 AD. For Christians, the Triquetra represents the Trinity: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit--three persons as one God. Its three equal arcs represent equality, its continuous line expresses eternity, and the interweaving represents indivisibility and unity.
Christian Use: The triquetra is sometimes used in a Christian context to represent the trinity. These forms of the triquetra often include a circle to emphasize the unity of the three parts of the trinity. It is sometimes called the trinity knot or the trinity circle (when a circle is included), and is most often found in areas of Celtic influence. 
Trinity Knot. The Trinity Knot (also known as the triquetra) is an ancient Celtic symbol comprised of one interconnected line with three distinct ends. Once having pagan meaning, the symbol was adopted by Christians as a good illustration of the doctrine of the Holy Trinity. The symbol received its common name, the Trinity Knot, and came to demonstrate the three-ness in one-ness of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
The triquetra, also known as a trinity knot, is believed to represent the three promises of a relationship such as to love, honour, and protect, and can be found as a design element on Claddaghs and other wedding or engagement rings. 
Here is a quick guide to the meaning behind some of the most popular Irish/Celtic symbols commonly used in jewelry that evokes the essence of Ireland: the Trinity knot, the Celtic knot, the Celtic spiral, St. Brigid’s Cross, the Celtic cross, the Tree of Life, and the Claddagh. Once having pagan meaning, the symbol was adopted by Christians as a good illustration of the doctrine of the Holy Trinity. The symbol received its common name, the Trinity Knot, and came to demonstrate the three-ness in one-ness of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
The trinity knot is also called a triquetra. Christians believe that the three points of the Irish trinity knot represent the three elements of the holy trinity: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Pagans (with related beliefs to the Celts) see the trinity knot as a representation of the natural forces – earth, air, and water. The trinity knot has also been known to symbolize life, death, and rebirth.
Answer   In Celtic art, the Knotwork Interlace refers to the interconnection of life and humankind's place within the universe. Common knots include the Trinity knot, th … ought to represent the Holy Trinity or the Triple Gods/Goddesses of the ancient Celts; and the Lover's Knot, representing 2 together as one. There are different answers to this question, depending on who you ask. Some people believe it represents Satanic things, because the Celtic trinity knot forms three sixes, which is the number of Satan and the anti-Christ.