The old town itself is built on a peninsula that protrudes into Tin Can Inlet providing safe beaches for families and calm waters for recreational boating. Only 90 minutes north is Hervey Bay, home of Whale Watching from July to November and the same distance south to the bright lights of Noosa. read more... Marina and Houseboat/Yacht charter facilities reflect the predominance of water-based activities for visitors wishing to explore the Great Sandy Strait from Inskip Point to Hervey Bay, a beautiful waterway protected by Fraser Island.
Tin Can Bay is a fishing and boating paradise located on the Cooloola Coast 2 1/2 hours drive north of the Queensland state capital Brisbane and just off the southern tip of World Heritage listed Fraser Island. Marina and Houseboat/Yacht charter facilities reflect the predominance of water-based activities for visitors wishing to explore the Great Sandy Strait from Inskip Point to Hervey Bay, a beautiful waterway protected by
The name Tin Can Bay is derived from tinchin or tidhin name for the species of mangrove in Yugumbir language spoken by the Aboriginals at that time. Others say that Tin Can is a word derived from the word tinken a vine with a large ribbed leaf which grew on the beaches here. Below: Schnapper Creek on a morning spring tide. The town is located on the mainland opposite the southern end of World Heritage listed Fraser Island, which is only a few miles away and adjacent to Cooloola National Park. The closest cities to Tin Can Bay are Gympie and Maryborough.
Tin Can Bay Tourist Park. Located on the beautiful Cooloola Coast 2 1/2 hours drive north of Brisbane and just off the southern tip of World Heritage listed Fraser Island. Tin Can Bay is best known for being a boating and fishing paradise! They say we're the BEST in the Bay! Welcome to the picturesque Tin Can Bay Tourist Park, located in Tin Can Bay on the beautiful Cooloola Coast. Serene waterways, perfect beaches, abundant wildlife and lush green grass is what you can expect while visiting us.
Tin Can Bay is a fishing and boating paradise located on the Cooloola Coast 2 ½ hours drive north of Brisbane, just off the southern tip of Fraser Island and only minutes from beautiful Rainbow Beach. 
Tin Can Bay's main industry is still fishing, boasting a fishing fleet of prawn and scallop trawlers working out of here on a seasonal basis and more recently Spanner Crabs are being caught for the overseas market. Marina and Houseboat/Yacht charter facilities reflect the predominance of water-based activities for visitors wishing to explore the Great Sandy Strait from Inskip Point to Hervey Bay, a beautiful waterway protected by Fraser Island.
Tin Can Bay, Queensland. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Tin Can Bay is a town in the Wide Bay–Burnett region in Queensland, Australia. The seaside town is located on a deep but narrow sheltered inlet in the Gympie local government area, 218 kilometres (135 mi) north of the state capital, Brisbane. At the 2006 census, Tin Can Bay had a population of 1,994. It is suggested that the town's name derives from the indigenous word, Tuncanbar, thought to refer to the dugongs that frequent the inlet. European settlement began in the 1870s as the point where logs would be floated to the timber mills at Maryborough. Each September the town hosts the Tin Can Bay Seafood Festival [1] , a day of family fun, with entertainment, novelty competitions such as mullet throwing and prawn eating, helicopter joy flights over the bay, seafood and market stalls.
We all know Tin Can Bay is the perfect place for fishing, boating, relaxing & of course, spending time with family. See what some of the Recreational activities on hand are here for you. Marina and Houseboat/Yacht charter facilities reflect the predominance of water-based activities for visitors wishing to explore the Great Sandy Strait from Inskip Point to Hervey Bay, a beautiful waterway protected by Fraser Island.