Mucormycosis – A rare infection caused by different fungi that belong to a group of fungi called Mucoromycotina. These fungi typically live in soil and in association with decaying organic matter, such as leaves, compost piles, or rotten wood. 1  Symptoms. Candidiasis-Caused by yeasts that belong to the genus Candida. The most common species is Candida albicans. 1  Thrush (Oral Candidiasis). 2  Vaginal Yeast Infections (Genital Candidiasis). 3  Bloodstream Candidiasis (Invasive
Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues. 
Most plant diseases are caused by fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Although the term disease is usually used only for the destruction of live plants, the action of dry rot and the rotting of harvested crops in storage or transport is similar to the rots of growing plants; both are caused by bacteria and fungi. Parasitic diseases are spread by dissemination of the agent itself (bacteria and viruses) or of the reproductive structures (the spores of fungi). Wind, rain, insects, humans, and other animals may provide the means for dissemination.
Fungal Diseases Fungal diseases are called mycoses and those affecting humans can be divided into four groups based on the level of penetration into the body tissues. (view-How Common are Fungal Diseases) Superficial mycoses are caused by fungi that grow on the surface of the skin or hair. Tinea capitis-or hair infection-which is common in young children is predicted to affect some 200 million worldwide. Fungal Diseases. Fungal diseases are called mycoses and those affecting humans can be divided into four groups based on the level of penetration into the body tissues. (view-How Common are Fungal Diseases). 1  Superficial mycoses are caused by fungi that grow on the surface of the skin or hair. 2  Cutaneous mycoses or dermatomycoses include such infections as athlete's foot and ringworm, where growth occurs only in the superficial layers of skin, nails,
Pathogenic fungi are fungi that cause disease in humans or other organisms. The study of pathogenic fungi is referred to as  medical mycology .. Although fungi are eukaryotic organisms, many pathogenic fungi are also microorganisms. Fungicides, such as ziram are used to protect plants against fungal infections. 
Fungal Parasites Some fungi cause disease when they become human parasites. Two examples are fungi in the genera Candida and Trichophyton. • Candida are yeast that cause candidiasis, commonly called a “yeast infection.” The yeast can infect the mouth or the vagina (in females). Lesson Summary • Most protist diseases in humans are caused by protozoa. Protozoa make humans sick when they become human parasites. Trypanosoma protozoa cause Chagas disease and sleeping sickness. Giardia protozoa cause giardiasis, and Plasmodium protozoa cause malaria.
Some fungi cause disease when they become human parasites. Two examples are fungi in the genera Candida and Trichophyton. 1  Candida are yeast that cause candidiasis, commonly called a “yeast infection.” The yeast can infect the mouth or the vagina (in females). 1 Most protist diseases in humans are caused by protozoa. 2  Protozoa make humans sick when they become human parasites. 3  Trypanosoma protozoa cause Chagas disease and sleeping sickness. 4  Giardia protozoa cause giardiasis, and Plasmodium protozoa cause malaria.
Fungal diseases can affect anyone. Learning about them can help you and your doctor recognize the symptoms of a fungal disease early and may help prevent serious complications. Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Mild fungal skin diseases can look like a rash and are very common. Fungal diseases in the lungs are often similar to other illnesses such as the flu or tuberculosis. Some fungal diseases like fungal meningitis and bloodstream infections are less common than skin and lung infections but can be deadly.
There are approximately 1.5 million different species of fungi on Earth, but only about 300 of those are known to make people sick. Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Fungi live outdoors in soil and on plants and trees as well as on many indoor surfaces and on human skin. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Candidiasis-Caused by yeasts that belong to the genus Candida. The most common species is Candida albicans. 1  Thrush (Oral Candidiasis). 2  Vaginal Yeast Infections (Genital Candidiasis). 3  Bloodstream Candidiasis (Invasive