Once you've paid, your credit report is updated to show that the account has been paid in full. However, a record of the account remains on your report for up to seven years. The fact that you paid it may boost your score, but it won't erase the derogatory account from your credit history. Paying in Full. Lenders often sell derogatory accounts to debt collection firms that specialize in collecting past-due debts. As a result, such accounts may show up on your credit report as being owed to the collection firm rather than your actual lender. You can pay off a past-due account at any time by contacting the firm that owns the debt
Closed by credit grantor is considered negative because it means that for whatever the reason, the creditor closed your account, not you. TU removed a negative tradeline that I disputed and put it under the section where things that have no adverse information are reported. 
If you have an account reported as closed and it's still open, contact your credit card issuer to find out why. Or, if the accounts says the creditor closed it even though you were the one who closed it, you can use the credit report dispute process to have your credit report updated to show that. Even though the account is closed, it will remain on your credit report. If you're still making payments on the balance, the payment history-and timeliness of your payments-will also be reported.
Step 3. Wait patiently for derogatory credit marks to be removed from your credit report if your creditor will not agree to remove them. In most cases, a creditor can only report negative information for seven years. Bankruptcies and judgments may remain with you for 10 years, however. Hire a debt-negotiation lawyer to negotiate with your creditors on your behalf. These lawyers typically have training and experience in debt negotiations. Ask your lawyer to negotiate repayment terms you can handle as well as the deletion of derogatory marks from your credit report.
The Credit Advice pages of the Site may contain messages submitted by users over whom Credit Karma has no control. Credit Karma cannot guarantee the accuracy, integrity or quality of any such messages. Some users may post messages that are misleading, untrue or offensive. What they you owed as a loss. They are no longer trying to collect it and took a tax credit for it. So they can't collect it anymore. The account is closed. But they are using that to punish you for not paying. That Derog will stay on your credit report for 7 years as a warning to other creditors that you may not pay your bills
1 38% - Is time frame from when account closed or paid on credit report? 2  49% - How long does it take for a closed account in good standing to fall off your credit report? 3  33% - If a credit report shows an account as closed by request of creditor and a 0 balance due does that mean it was sold? 
Your credit report includes a variety of information about your credit card accounts, including the status of each account. On closed accounts, your credit report may include a comment that indicates who closed the account, specifically account closed by creditor if the credit card issuer closed your account. Creditors have different reasons for closing your credit card. Even though the account is closed, it will remain on your credit report. If you're still making payments on the balance, the payment history-and timeliness of your payments-will also be reported.
OC accounts themselves do not have a credit report exclusion date based on any time period. Individual adverse items reported by the OC become excluded after certain times, not the accounts themselves. Their status as open or closed is irrelevant to the date of exclusion of adverse items reported under the account. First post, although I am a long time lurker... I have 4 Accounts that are reporting on my TU credit report as closed as derogatory. 3 of the accounts are over 7 years old, with the oldest being 11.