A minor fracture of the ankle usually involves the fibula. Two types of fractures are most common in children. One involves a break in the growth centre of the fibula (Salter-Harris I or II fracture). The other involves a chip of bone on the tip of the fibula. Your child has been diagnosed with a minor break (fracture) of the ankle. The bone involved is the one on the outside of the ankle, called the fibula. Your child has one of the following: 1  a break in the growth centre of the fibula (a Salter-Harris I or II fracture). 2  a chip of bone removed from
The length of time taken for healing depends on where the fracture is and how severe the break is. For example, a simple buckle fracture will need a plaster cast for 2 to 3 weeks and be almost completely healed in 4 weeks. Children heal in about half the time it takes an adult to heal from a similar injury. Often fractures in bones that are growing will correct their own shape ('remodel').
It depends. Each person’s healing process is different. It depends on the location of the fracture, the severity of the break, age, and nutritional status. For example, a fractured leg is going to take a lot longer to heal than a fractured finger. Generally, younger individuals heal faster than older individuals. Proper nutrition also plays a role. The average healing process takes anywhere from 6 to 8 weeks. 
What to expect from an ankle fracture…. Most ankle fractures take about 6-8 weeks to heal, although pain will subside after 2-3 weeks. A splint, cast, or walking boot is necessary until a doctor recommends it be discontinued, usually at approximately 6-8 weeks. Patients treated operatively can usually return to bearing weight on the joint at 6-8 weeks.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. an average time for a bone to knit or heal is 6-8 weeks for a simple break, however there are other things to change that i.e the bone that broke, type of break and general health of the person that has the broken bone. How long does a minor ankle fracture take to heal? I broke my ankle about a month ago doing a backflip and I've had a cast on my leg for almost a month now ... My ankle wasn't completely broke, it was like a little crack in the bone to where it wasn't all the way broke ... School starts in a week and a half and the doc said that on my appointment,..
10. Get help from a doctor now ›. 6- 8 weeks: Typically an ankle fracture will take 6 - 8 weeks to heal. It depends how badly it was broken, if it is displaced, if it needs surgery, if there are other complicating factors to consider related to your health. ...Read more. Dr. Jeffrey Wint. 3. Get help from a doctor now ›. 6- 8 weeks: Usually it takes 6 - 8 weeks to heal. However, it may take longer to heal if there are complications, large amount of damage or dislocation, medical conditions of the patient, compliance of the patient. ...Read more
A minor bone break in a child may take a few weeks to heal, while a serious break in an older person’s bone may require from months to a year to heal. In an adult, no fractures heal in fewer than 6 weeks, except for an occasional stress fracture. In any type of fracture, the bone may fail to heal or it may heal in a poor alignment. If either occurs, a surgical reconstruction may be necessary. When a fracture of one of the 30 bones of the foot and ankle occurs, it is essential to obtain a prompt evaluation for proper diagnosis and treatment.
Beca … use of how much was damage and depending on the area of the fracture and the extent of the damage, the healing process could take up to a year, and in some cases even longer. Once you fracture your skull the healing process also includes the healing of the brain itself. 