If you have been exposed to the HPV vaccine during pregnancy, the manufacturer (Merck & Co.) has set up a Pregnancy Registry to monitor fetal outcomes. Women exposed to the HPV vaccine during pregnancy are encouraged to report this exposure by calling (800) 986-8999. Vaccine for HPV. Advertisement. This is based on animal studies that looked at the effects of the HPV vaccine during pregnancy. However, the HPV vaccine is generally not recommended during pregnancy, as the full risks of its use are not known.
For people who are pregnant, Gardasil ® (Quadrivalent Human Papillomavirus [Types 6, 11, 16, and 18] Recombinant Vaccine) is generally considered safe. This is based on animal studies that looked at the effects of Gardasil during pregnancy. 
HPV Vaccine and Pregnancy In every pregnancy, a woman starts out with a 3-5% chance of having a baby with a birth defect. This is called her background risk. This sheet talks about whether exposure the HPV vaccine may increase the risk for birth defects over that background risk. 
As mentioned previously, the manufacturer has established a pregnancy registry for postmarketing surveillance of the quadrivalent HPV vaccine. Data from the manufacturer’s second report, which covered the first 2 years following licensure (from June 1, 2006, to May 31, 2008), were published in 2009. A combined analysis of 5 randomized controlled trials reported outcomes of 3620 women who, during phase 3 clinical trials, were inadvertently exposed to the quadrivalent HPV vaccine or placebo either during or just before pregnancy.
In practice, there are few data on exposure to HPV vaccines during the first trimester of pregnancy. There are more, relatively reassuring, data on the HPV 6/11/16/18 vaccine. Women who are vaccinated just before conceiving or early in pregnancy should receive appropriate information. HPV vaccines and pregnancy: the situation in early 2012. [No authors listed]. Vaccines against human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6/11/16/18 (Gardasil) and 16/18 (Cervarix) are non-viable vaccines composed of recombinant HPV proteins. As a precaution, they should not be given during pregnancy. However, some women are vaccinated shortly before conceiving or early during an undiagnosed pregnancy
The Pregnancy Registry for GARDASIL ® 9 receives voluntary reports from health care providers or from women/family members/friends about women who inadvertently (prior to knowing they were pregnant) or purposefully (knowingly were vaccinated for protection against HPV disease) received GARDASIL ® 9 during pregnancy. 
Safety of HPV vaccine during pregnancy. Currently there are 2 inactive recombinant HPV vaccines available in Canada: a quadrivalent vaccine, which provides protection against HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18, and a bivalent vaccine, which provides protection against HPV types 16 and 18. A combined analysis of 5 randomized controlled trials reported outcomes of 3620 women who, during phase 3 clinical trials, were inadvertently exposed to the quadrivalent HPV vaccine or placebo either during or just before
7. Merck & Co Merck pregnancy registry program. Fourth annual report on exposure during pregnancy from the Merck pregnancy registry for quadrivalent human papillomavirus (types 6, 11, 16, 18) recombinant vaccine [GARDASIL/SILGARD] covering the period from first approval (June 1, 2006) through May 31, 2010. North Wales, PA: Merck & Co. In press; A combined analysis of 5 randomized controlled trials reported outcomes of 3620 women who, during phase 3 clinical trials, were inadvertently exposed to the quadrivalent HPV vaccine or placebo either during or just before pregnancy.
For women who are pregnant, the HPV vaccine (Gardasil ® , Cervarix ®) is generally considered safe. This is based on animal studies that looked at the effects of the HPV vaccine during pregnancy. However, the HPV vaccine is generally not recommended during pregnancy, as the full risks of its use are not known.