Yes, most almond varieties are capable of growing in NC (USDA zone 7). Howver, it is unlikely they will reliably produce a harvestable crop as they are very susceptible to fro … st damage when blooming and tend to bloom very early. 
Snap beans and lima beans grow well in North Carolina. Both of these types of beans may also be grown in 5-gallon containers. Snap bean varieties to grow are Bush Romano, Bush Blue Lake and Tender Crop. Lima bean varieties to grow are Henderson Bush, Jackson and Wonder Bush. Okra should be planted in May in North Carolina. Plant in early May in eastern North Carolina, mid-May in central North Carolina and late May in western North Carolina. Varieties to choose from include Annie Oakley, Burgundy and Clemson Spineless Lee. These varieties will be ready for harvest in 60 to 70 days.
The Premier blueberry plant is one of the Rabbiteye blueberries that grows well in North Carolina backyard gardens. Blueberry plants are native to growing in North Carolina. Several types of thornless blackberry bushes are perfect for N.C. Gardens, according to N.C. State University publications. The surviving fig trees only in zone 8 of North Carolina are the Black Mission fig tree, the Italian White fig tree and Patrick's Super Giant fig. Most Japanese persimmon trees can be grown well, including the Tam o pan persimmons that were introduced in N.C. In 1915.
For North Carolina residents, trying to decide what type of grass to plant in the front yard can be difficult. “There are a lot of factors to consider,” says Grady Miller, Professor and Extension Specialist in the Turfgrass Environmental Research and Education Center at N.C. State University. 
The following is a list of selections and hybrids that have been introduced to the horticultural trade through the North Carolina Botanical Garden. These plants are especially well suited to southeastern gardens so look for them in your local nursery or at the Botanical Garden's daily plant sale. 
Blueberry Growing in the Piedmont. GROWING RABBITEYE BLUEBERRIES IN THE PIEDMONT AND FOOTHILLS. Blueberries are relatively easy to grow but need special site and soil preparation. Three types of blueberries can be grown in North Carolina, Rabbiteye, Highbush and Southern Highbush. Rabbitteye Blueberries are more widely adapted to different soil types and are more drought and heat resistant.
History. Most nursery crops produced in North Carolina are used as ornamentals to beautify the world we live in. Smaller amounts of nursery stock is used in fruit production and forestry. Originally most nursery stock produced in the state were fruit trees and fruiting plants. There was a change from fruit plants to ornamental plants because North Carolina has changed from a rural to a urban economy. There are more and more larger cities growing up around North Carolina instead of countryside towns and farms.
Many garden centers in our area currently have fruit and berry plants for sale. Before you rush in to buy, take the time to plan ahead to ensure the money you spend is not wasted. WHAT YOU CAN GROW. Many types of fruits and berries can be realistically grown in home landscapes in southeastern North Carolina. Bananas will grow in our area as an ornamental plant, but our growing season is too short to allow fruit production. MAKE SURE YOU HAVE SPACE. Most fruit trees and berry plants do not take up a tremendous amount of space, but they do need to be planted in the right conditions.
Most fruit plants need at least eight hours of direct sunlight each day, though more is better. In addition, all fruits except blueberries need to grow in soil that is not too acidic – for most a pH around 6.5 is ideal. If your pH is too low, you will need to work lime into the soil before planting. Bananas will grow in our area as an ornamental plant, but our growing season is too short to allow fruit production. MAKE SURE YOU HAVE SPACE. Most fruit trees and berry plants do not take up a tremendous amount of space, but they do need to be planted in the right conditions.
Comments. Submit. A variety of fruit trees grow well in North Carolina's mild climate, including apple and pear trees. However, while peaches thrive in the state's lower elevation areas, they do not grow well in the state's higher elevations and cooler temperatures. A variety of pear trees that grow well in all areas of the state give gardeners plenty of choices for delicious late summer or early fall fruit.