[pəˈruːzəl] N → examen m. after a brief/careful perusal of the document → tras un somero/detenido examen del documento, tras una somera/detenida lectura del documento. a copy is enclosed for your perusal → adjunta se ha enviado una copia para que la examine. he little deserved the name--for though he told us that he was much concerned at our Misfortunes, yet by his own account it appeared that the perusal of them, had neither drawn from him a single sigh, nor induced him to bestow one curse on our vindictive stars--.
English Collins Dictionary-English synonyms & Thesaurus &nbsp. perusal Perusalof something such as a letter, article, or document is the action of reading it. FORMAL n-uncount also a N Peter Cooke undertook to send each of us a sample contract for perusal...
When asked about the sentence I only had a moment to peruse the manual quickly, 66 percent of the Panel found it unacceptable in 1988, 58 percent in 1999, and 48 percent in 2011. Use of the word outside of reading contexts, as in We perused the shops in the downtown area, is often considered a mistake. he little deserved the name--for though he told us that he was much concerned at our Misfortunes, yet by his own account it appeared that the perusal of them, had neither drawn from him a single sigh, nor induced him to bestow one curse on our vindictive stars--.
Perusal means a thorough and careful reading of any printed matter. If you are going to submit a document to a perusal, you're going to study it closely. People say close perusal which is a tautology, like saying repeat again or return back.. Perusal is an English word and can be freely used while  sending across your resume to potential recruiters. You can always  supplement your CV with a well-written … cover letter starting with  Please find attached my CV for your perusal.
The action of reading or examining something: I continued my perusal of the instructions [count noun]: a quick perusal of the index to the book reveals an interesting fact. More example sentences. 1  After lengthy perusal of the instructions, I managed to change the green neon clocks on the video, the hi-fi and the cooker. 2  He set it back on the wooden plate and continued his perusal of the records. 3  A selection of videos in the lounge awaited our perusal. 1 After lengthy perusal of the instructions, I managed to change the green neon clocks on the video, the hi-fi and the cooker. 2  He set it back on the wooden plate and continued his perusal of the records.
They are intended for the perusal of young women, at that tender age when the feelings of their nature begin to act on them most insidiously, and when their minds are least prepared by reason and experience to contend with their passions. he little deserved the name--for though he told us that he was much concerned at our Misfortunes, yet by his own account it appeared that the perusal of them, had neither drawn from him a single sigh, nor induced him to bestow one curse on our vindictive stars--.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a perusal is the examination or reading of something paying attention to details. An example of perusal is the reading of help wanted ads in hopes of securing a job. the act or an instance of perusing. Noun.
The word perusal is a noun, a word for the action of reading or examining something. Example sentence: … A perusal of the material submitted made it clear the class did understand the subject. BJ Sullivan. Perusal is an English word and can be freely used while  sending across your resume to potential recruiters. You can always  supplement your CV with a well-written … cover letter starting with  Please find attached my CV for your perusal.
Full Definition of PERUSE. transitive verb. 1. a: to examine or consider with attention and in detail: study b: to look over or through in a casual or cursory manner. 2. : read; especially: to read over in an attentive or leisurely manner. — pe·rus·al \-ˈrue-ˈrü\ zəl. — noun·pe·rus er. noun 1 To refresh my memory of the old days, I asked for some Dailies of the thirties from the morgue, sat down at the large round oak table at the end of the editorial room on the second floor, and began riffling through the musty pages.