The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction. 1 - Because skeletal muscle is voluntary muscle, contraction requires a nervous impulse. So, step 1 in contraction is when the impulse is transferred from a neuron to the SARCOLEMMA of a muscle cell. 2 - The impulse travels along the SARCOLEMMA and down the T-TUBULES.
Once the myosin-binding sites are exposed, and if sufficient ATP is present, myosin binds to actin to begin cross-bridge cycling. Then the sarcomere shortens and the muscle contracts. In the absence of calcium, this binding does not occur, so the presence of free calcium is an important regulator of muscle contraction. Within the sarcomere, myosin slides along actin to contract the muscle fiber in a process that requires ATP. Scientists have also identified many of the molecules involved in regulating muscle contractions and motor behaviors, including calcium, troponin, and tropomyosin.
Active sites are blocked when the muscle is relaxed. Initiation of Muscle Contraction. Step 1) Neuromuscular Control The axons of the nerve cells of the spinal cord branch and attach to each muscle fiber forming a neuromuscular junction. i). An action potential passes down the nerve. ii). The nerve releases Ca++ that results in the release of Acetylcholine (ACh) Step 2). 
The termination of muscle contraction is followed by muscle relaxation, which is a return of the muscle fibers to their low tension-generating state. Muscle contractions can be described based on two variables: length and tension. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension remains the same. Furthermore, if the muscle length shortens, the contraction is concentric.
When muscle cells are viewed under the microscope, one can see that they contain a striped pattern (striations). This pattern is formed by a series of basic units called sarcomeres that are arranged in a stacked pattern throughout muscle tissue (Figure 1). Within the sarcomere, myosin slides along actin to contract the muscle fiber in a process that requires ATP. Scientists have also identified many of the molecules involved in regulating muscle contractions and motor behaviors, including calcium, troponin, and tropomyosin.
6.4 Contraction of Muscle Cells. The contractile apparatus in skeletal and cardiac muscles is a specialized structure for contraction, and consists of basic unit called sarcomere (Fig. 6-10A). These are mainly composed of thick myosin filaments, consisting of polymerized myosins, and thin actin filaments. The protein complex that regulates this contraction exists in the contractile apparatus (Fig. 6-11B). Regulatory proteins bind to actin filaments to keep myosin heads from binding to them. In this condition, actin filaments and myosin heads cannot interact, thus disabling the contraction of muscle cells.
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion
Muscle contraction is the activation of tension-generating sites within muscle fibers. In physiology, muscle contraction does not mean muscle shortening because muscle tension can be produced without changes in muscle length such as holding a heavy book or a dumbbell at the same position. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension remains the same. Furthermore, if the muscle length shortens, the contraction is concentric.
Muscle cells, ensheathed by endomysium, consist of many fibrils (or myofibrils), and these myofibrils are made up of long protein molecules called myofilaments. There are two types of myofilaments in myofibrils: thick myofilaments and thin myofilaments. Source: Wikipedia Muscle contraction Source: Hopkins (2005). 1 - Because skeletal muscle is voluntary muscle, contraction requires a nervous impulse. So, step 1 in contraction is when the impulse is transferred from a neuron to the SARCOLEMMA of a muscle cell. 2 - The impulse travels along the SARCOLEMMA and down the T-TUBULES.
Troponin is a complex of three proteins that are integral to muscle contraction. Troponin is attached to the protein tropomyosin within the actin filaments, as seen in the image below. When the muscle is relaxed tropomyosin blocks the attachment sites for the myosin cross bridges (heads), thus preventing contraction. Some of this calcium attaches to troponin which causes a change in the muscle cell that moves tropomyosin out of the way so the cross bridges can attach and produce muscle contraction. In summary the sliding filament theory of muscle contraction can be broken down into four distinct stages, these are;