the section of a brian that develops from the anterior section of the neural tube in an embryo and contains the hemispheres, basal ganglia, amygdala and hippocampus. FOREBRAIN: The forebrain may also contain the thalamua and hypothalamus.. 
Definition of MIDBRAIN. : the middle of the three primary divisions of the developing vertebrate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain between the forebrain and hindbrain that includes the tectum, tegmentum, and substantia nigra —called also mesencephalon — see brain illustration. See midbrain defined for kids.
Noun. 1. forebrain-the anterior portion of the brain; the part of the brain that develops from the anterior part of the neural tube. prosencephalon. neural structure-a structure that is part of the nervous system. cerebral peduncle, peduncle-a bundle of myelinated neurons joining different parts of the brain. telencephalon-the anterior division of the forebrain; the cerebrum and related parts of the hypothalamus. betweenbrain, diencephalon, interbrain, thalmencephalon-the posterior division of the forebrain; connects the cerebral hemispheres with the mesencephalon. Translations.
prosencephalon. 1. the portion of the brain developed from the anterior of the three primary brain vesicles in the early embryo, comprising the diencephalon and telencephalon. 2. the most anterior of the primary brain vesicles; called also forebrain. (pros'en-sef'ă-lon), [TA].
forebrain. noun. 1  The most anterior of the three primary regions of the embryonic brain from which the telencephalon and diencephalon develop. 2  The segment of the adult brain that develops from the embryonic forebrain and includes the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus. Parts of the Forebrain. 1  Striatum-Often associated with the experience of rewards or surprise. 2  Lateral ventricle-Protect the brain from trauma. 3  Third ventricle-Protect the brain from trauma. 4  Telencephalon-Determines both your intelligence and your personality and operates the sense of smell and touch.
n. 1. The most anterior of the three primary regions of the embryonic brain from which the telencephalon and diencephalon develop. 2. The segment of the adult brain that develops from the embryonic forebrain and includes the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus. telencephalon-the anterior division of the forebrain; the cerebrum and related parts of the hypothalamus. betweenbrain, diencephalon, interbrain, thalmencephalon-the posterior division of the forebrain; connects the cerebral hemispheres with the mesencephalon. Translations.
Noun. 1. prosencephalon-the anterior portion of the brain; the part of the brain that develops from the anterior part of the neural tube. forebrain. neural structure-a structure that is part of the nervous system. cerebral peduncle, peduncle-a bundle of myelinated neurons joining different parts of the brain. 
The basal forebrain is a collection of structures located to the front of and below the striatum. It includes the nucleus accumbens, nucleus basalis, diagonal band of Broca, substantia innominata, and medial septal nuclei. 
The definition of a forebrain is the part of the brain that controls many of the senses. Parts of the Forebrain. 1  Striatum-Often associated with the experience of rewards or surprise. 2  Lateral ventricle-Protect the brain from trauma. 3  Third ventricle-Protect the brain from trauma. 4  Telencephalon-Determines both your intelligence and your personality and operates the sense of smell and touch.