Climate in British Columbia is influenced by latitude, mountainous topography and the Pacific Ocean. This diversity causes wide variations in average rainfall, snowfall, temperature and hours of sunshine, sometimes over very short distances. In general, however, temperatures are warmer in the south than in the north, and rainfall is heaviest along the coast and lightest in the southern interior. BC is a large province, and therefore has a number of different climatic zones. Current BC weather conditions.
Air temperature. °C - °C. The measurements for the sea temperature in Vancouver, British Columbia are provided by the daily satellite readings provided by the NOAA. The temperatures given are the surface temperature (SST) which is most relevant to recreational users
Long Beach has the warmest average year round temperature along California's Pacific coast. Annual daily high temperatures for California beaches range from an average of 74 degrees Fahrenheit (23 degrees Celsius) at Long Beach to 58 degrees F (14 °C) at Crescent City and Fort Bragg. The tables give annual averages of daily maximum and minimum air temperatures for each location and, where available, the year's average ocean temperature. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Southern Coast, Los Angeles Area, Central Coast, San Francisco Area and Northern Coast.
Figure 1. Location of the 13 lighthouse stations currently monitored for water temperature and salinity on the west coast of B.C. Figure 2. The average daily sea surface temperature in 2010 (blue dots) and 2011 (red dots) in the stations monitored in the Strait of Georgia. The crosses show the mean annual temperature based on 30 years of data (1981-2010).
For example, Vancouver's average maximum temperature is 6°C/43°F in January and 22°C/72°F in July, and its annual rainfall is less than half of Tofino's. Autumn and winter still tend to have heavy precipitation. In general, however, temperatures are warmer in the south than in the north, and rainfall is heaviest along the coast and lightest in the southern interior. BC is a large province, and therefore has a number of different climatic zones. Current BC weather conditions.
Climate & Weather. The Vancouver, Coast & Mountains region is influenced by its proximity to the Pacific Ocean and its many mountains. Greater Vancouver and the Sunshine Coast, protected by Vancouver Island, have considerably less precipitation and more sunshine compared to BC's other coastal areas. 
The coast's nighttime average low temperatures for the year range from as warm as 58 degrees F (14 °C) at San Diego to as cool as 42 degrees F (6 °C) at Klamath. In the north, the year's ocean temperatures average 52 degrees F (11 °C), while in southern California the water is at least 10 degrees F (5 °C) warmer. The tables give annual averages of daily maximum and minimum air temperatures for each location and, where available, the year's average ocean temperature. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Southern Coast, Los Angeles Area, Central Coast, San Francisco Area and Northern Coast.
Victoria /vɪkˈtɔriə/ is the capital city of British Columbia, Canada, and is located on the southern tip of Vancouver Island off Canada's Pacific coast. At the Victoria Gonzales weather station, daily temperatures rise above 30 °C (86 °F) on average less than one day per year and fall below 0 °C (32.0 °F) on average only ten nights per year. Victoria has recorded completely freeze-free winter seasons four times (in 1925/26, 1939/40, 1999/2000, and 2002/03).
In general sea surface temperatures were cooler on the west coast of North America in 2011 than 2010. The annual salinity signal is affected by the Fraser River freshet, and in 2011 conditions were fresher than normal due to a large and late snowmelt. The average daily sea surface temperature in 2010 (blue dots) and 2011 (red dots) in the stations monitored in the Strait of Georgia. The crosses show the mean annual temperature based on 30 years of data (1981-2010).