1 Bonded retainers that are glued to the back of the teeth can cost $250-$500 for one arch or $500-$1,000 for both upper and lower. ( 2 Bonded retainers are often placed on the bottom teeth, with a removable retainer used on top.). 1 Vivera clear plastic retainers by Invisalign have an annual fee of $300-$750, for a new set of identical retainers delivered every three months. 2  Vivera retainers can be used by people whose teeth were straightened by conventional braces as well as those who used Invisalign's series of clear plastic aligner trays.
1 If not included, replacement retainers can cost $70-$250 for one or $140-$500 or more for a set. 2  Most dental insurance does not cover replacement retainers. 3  Removable Essix retainers made of vacuum-formed clear plastic typically cost $100-$250 for one or $200-$500 for a set. 1 Vivera clear plastic retainers by Invisalign have an annual fee of $300-$750, for a new set of identical retainers delivered every three months. 2  Vivera retainers can be used by people whose teeth were straightened by conventional braces as well as those who used Invisalign's series of clear plastic aligner trays.
In most cases, the cost of the retainer has been included in the quoted price for the complete orthodontic treatment. Many orthodontists will provide you with an itemized list that will show how the cost is broken down. Retainer prices can vary from $500 to $1,000 as of November 2010, depending on the length and complexity of the treatment, according to figures from CostHelper.com. In the event that a dental retainer is lost or broken, the patient must pay an additional fee to replace the item. Depending on the orthodontic practice, the replacement may range from $75 to $250, says CostHelper.com. Replacement
1 Removable Hawley retainers (made of hard acrylic molded to fit the patient's mouth plus a visible wire to hold the teeth in position) can cost $150-$300 or more for one, or $300-$600 or more for a set (upper and lower). 1 Vivera clear plastic retainers by Invisalign have an annual fee of $300-$750, for a new set of identical retainers delivered every three months. 2  Vivera retainers can be used by people whose teeth were straightened by conventional braces as well as those who used Invisalign's series of clear plastic aligner trays.
1 However, a retainer is usually included in the overall braces fee, so there is no additional charge for the first set of retainers -- and some orthodontists include one or two replacements in their standard braces package. 2  If not included, replacement retainers can cost $70-$250 for one or $140-$500 or more for a set. 1 Vivera clear plastic retainers by Invisalign have an annual fee of $300-$750, for a new set of identical retainers delivered every three months. 2  Vivera retainers can be used by people whose teeth were straightened by conventional braces as well as those who used Invisalign's series of clear plastic aligner trays.
A retainer usually is included in the overall fee for braces. When retainers are recommended to correct a minor overbite without the need for braces, retainer costs may range from $500 to $1,000. This cost incorporates office visits, X-rays and fittings. If replacement costs aren't included, the cost of replacement retainers  not covered by most dental insurance policies  can be $150 to $300 each. Clear Aligners: Attractive alternatives to traditional braces, clear or “invisible” aligners are a series of clear, customized appliances.
1 On average, a retainer can cost anywhere from $500 to $2,100 for both the top and bottom. 2  For those that have dental insurance, many policies will cover a portion of the procedure depending on what the deductible, co-pay, etc. 3  For example, a patient in Houston, Texas had bonded retainers ordered for a total of $1,400. 1 If braces are not needed, an orthodontist can fit a retainer to fix problems such as an overbite. 2 
Answer: retainer replacement. By Sarah h. It is best to replace your retainer as soon as possible to prevent further movement of your teeth. Keep in mind that the retainer will retain the teeth in their current position. The average cost for a removable (Hawley) retainer is $275 per arch. You may want to look into an appliance that will move the tooth back into alignment, then act as a retainer. This can be accomplished with an Essix appliance, which is much like an Invisalign aligner. Essix appliances range between $350-$600. Speak with the dentist at your next visit and find out your options. They may offer a flexible payment option as well.
1 With the braces, orthodontists are going to include the retainers after the braces have been removed. 2  If braces are not needed, an orthodontist can fit a retainer to fix problems such as an overbite. 3  On average, a retainer can cost anywhere from $500 to $2,100 for both the top and bottom. 1 If braces are not needed, an orthodontist can fit a retainer to fix problems such as an overbite. 2