Push-ups work muscles in the arms, chest and shoulders, including the triceps muscle. Learn about improving overall upper body strength with push-ups... The basic form of this body-weight exercise provides a challenge, and the numerous variations can help you continue to push yourself -- and your muscles. Performing a standard pushup involves a number of upper-body muscles, while those in your core and lower body also play a role.
A push-up not only helps you to get a stronger upper body, but also a stronger midsection. It incorporates the stabilization muscles of your core, combining an upper-body pushing movement with a plank. It is, in fact, one of the best and most basic exercises for your midsection. Push-ups are traditionally used to work your chest muscles, but by altering your technique slightly, you can work different muscle groups, including your abs. But first, you need to understand the structure of the abdominal wall. Your transverse abdominis (TVA) is like an inner sheath that holds your gut in place.
The push-up demands a lot of muscle stabilization as you lower and lift the weight of your body. Your erector spinae group is the main stabilizer of your back. It is made up of three muscles: spinalis, longissimus and iliocostalis. Although it focuses on two muscles, all your muscles must work to move your body up and down as you hold your own weight. It is an amazing upper body exercise and an excellent total body workout, challenging your core at all times. If performed regularly, push-ups will promote muscle endurance and overall fitness.
Performing push-ups works a variety of muscles in your upper body, including specific muscles within your abdomen, chest, shoulders and upper arms. You can vary your technique by placing your hands at different widths to emphasize one area over another. Triceps Brachii. While the anterior deltoids and pectoralis major muscles work to horizontally adduct the upper arms during the upward phase of a push-up, the triceps brachii muscles, or triceps for short, are also hard at work extending the elbow joints so you can fully extend your arms.
Pectoralis Major. These are the two large chest muscles primarily the pushing muscles of the upper body. It makes up most of the upper body. As you raise and lower your body during a push-up, the pectoralis major is doing most of the work to raise and lower your body. Deltoids. The following steps explain how to do a push-up: 1  Lower your body down on to the floor or a carpeted floor with your palms under your shoulders-slightly wider than shoulder width. 2  Keep your feet close together and dig your toes into the floor helping to stabilize the lower part of your body.
The push-up exercise may just be the perfect workout. Although it focuses on two muscles, all your muscles must work to move your body up and down as you hold your own weight. It is an amazing upper body exercise and an excellent total body workout, challenging your core at all times. If performed regularly, push-ups will promote muscle endurance and overall fitness.
Push-ups exercise the pectoral muscles, triceps, and anterior deltoids, with ancillary benefits to the rest of the deltoids, serratus anterior, coracobrachialis and the midsection as a whole. While the push-up primarily targets the muscles of the chest, arms, and shoulders, support required from other muscles results in a wider range of muscles integrated into the exercise.
Push-ups are performed in a prone position, which can help develop a good posture. Military personnel and athletes do push-ups as part of exercise regimen that helps strengthen the upper back and shoulder while providing stability to the torso, and promote muscle endurance and overall fitness. The following steps explain how to do a push-up: 1  Lower your body down on to the floor or a carpeted floor with your palms under your shoulders-slightly wider than shoulder width. 2  Keep your feet close together and dig your toes into the floor helping to stabilize the lower part of your body.
Chest Muscles. The push-up exercise requires the recruitment of many muscles, but there are two primary movers. The chest muscles are the first primary movers and include your pectoralis major and minor. Although it focuses on two muscles, all your muscles must work to move your body up and down as you hold your own weight. It is an amazing upper body exercise and an excellent total body workout, challenging your core at all times. If performed regularly, push-ups will promote muscle endurance and overall fitness.