Bacillus cereus is a Gram positive, soil dwelling ,beta hemolytic, endemic bacterium.   It causes food borne diseases.It is a facultative anaerobe and like other mem … bers of the genus Bacillus,, produces endospores. 3 people found this useful. Answered. Bacillus subtillus will test positive when performing a VP and Citrate test. Also, bacillus cereus is much more motile. It isn't as dependable as the chemical tests, but the … cereus colonies will appear wispy and more widespread on an agar plate than those of subtilis.
Bacillus cereus is a Gram positive, soil dwelling ,beta hemolytic, endemic bacterium.   It causes food borne diseases.It is a facultative anaerobe and like other mem … bers of the genus Bacillus,, produces endospores. 3 people found this useful. Answered. 
B. cereus is a gram positive bacteria. This was identified by the color that the bacteria appeared under the microscope during the gram stain test. Gram positive means that the bacteria only had one cell wall layer. The bacteria absorbed the crystal violet stain, leaving the bacteria to appear purple. B. cereus is a motile bacteria, defined as bacteria that can move using a variety of mechanisms. It was determined by stabbing aninoculating loop with the bacteria on it once into the MIO agar.
Overview: Bacillus cereus is a Gram-positive, spore-forming, rod-shaped, facultative anaerobic bacterium belonging to the Bacillaceae family of the Firmicutes (Figure 1). Like other members of the genus Bacillus, B. cereus can produce protective endospores. An endospore is a dormant, tough, and non-reproductive structure produced by certain bacteria from the Firmicute phylum. They are typically located at cells' centre and contain hydrophobic appendages.
Bacillus cereus. Overview: Bacillus cereus is a Gram-positive, spore-forming, rod-shaped, facultative anaerobic bacterium belonging to the Bacillaceae family of the Firmicutes (Figure 1). Most strains of B. cereus are motile, while only 4% are found to be non-motile. Like other members of the genus Bacillus, B. cereus can produce protective endospores. An endospore is a dormant, tough, and non-reproductive structure produced by certain bacteria from the Firmicute phylum. They are typically located at cells' centre and contain hydrophobic appendages.
B. cereus is methyl red positive. This means that the bacteria consumed glucose and produced an acid waste. To identify this, we measured methyl red into a test tube with our bacteria and liquid. We then placed the test tube onto the vortex stirrer and observed the color of the liquid. B. cereus is a motile bacteria, defined as bacteria that can move using a variety of mechanisms. It was determined by stabbing aninoculating loop with the bacteria on it once into the MIO agar.
Bacillus subtilis can ferment more than one type of sugar, such as sucrose and dextrose, but cannot ferment other types of sugars, such as lactose. B. subtilis is a gram-positive rod often found in soil and decomposing organic matter; it is a common laboratory contaminate. Enterococcus (Streptococcus) faecalis is a gram-positive coccus that is found in the intestines of humans and warm-blooded animals.
Bacillus cereus B4 is used as a pesticide to deter fungi from rotting seedling plants. This strain produces three types of metabolites that enable it to suppress certain plant diseases and promote plant growth. The metabolites include Kanosamine, 3, 4-dihydroxy benzoate, and 2 keto-4 methylthiobutyrate. In addition, Bacillus cereus is an opportunistic human pathogen and is occasionally associated with infections, causing periodontal diseases and other more serious infections [5]. Immunocompromised patients are susceptible to bacteremia, endocarditis, meningitis, pneumonia, and endophthalmitis [6].
The bacterium was grey and opaque in appearance. A Gram stain was done and indicated it as a Gram positive rod. This again ruled out the cocci shaped bacterium. Bacillus cereus (B. cereus) and Bacillus subtilis (B. subtilis) bacteria were left of the rod shaped bacterium’s to be tested. Acid as a byproduct of glucose fermentation is a characteristic of B. cereus and not of B. subtilis. This is now a contradicting test and suggests B. subtilis bacterium is the unknown. The Glycerol test was then conducted to test for acid production by the fermentation of this specific carbohydrate.