Water temperatures above 185° F (85° C) kill all pathogens within a few minutes. So in the time it takes for water to reach the boiling point (212° F or 100° C) all pathogens will be killed, even at high altitude. The moment your drinking water reaches a rolling boil, the water has already become safe to drink. So…a rolling boil for 3 minutes is about as LONG as you need to boil, for security. But fact is..water cools slower then it heats up (since we apply energy to boil it, pressurized stove, fire, electricity).
Boiling is proof positive the water is hot enough to make it safe to drink. You can also throw out the myth that you must boil water longer at higher elevations. The boiling point of water even on Mount Everest is still high enough to destroy all disease causing organisms even before the water has started to boil. 
NOTE: Caveats regarding Safe Water Boil Times: Boiling water will NOT remove chemical toxins that may be present. Very dirty water should be filtered first with a cloth or other material to remove sediments, and/or let stand for awhile to allow sediments to settle – then pour off clearer water on top. Stop wasting fuel. So…a rolling boil for 3 minutes is about as LONG as you need to boil, for security. But fact is..water cools slower then it heats up (since we apply energy to boil it, pressurized stove, fire, electricity).
Most rain water is safe to drink. Actually, rain water is the water supply for much of the world's population. The levels of pollution, pollen, mold, and other contaminants are low -- possibly lower than your public drinking water supply. 
Can boiling always be relied upon to make water safe to drink? In this video I run through the considerations for dealing with pathogenic organisms and other water pollutants. In this context I look at the effectiveness and reliability of boiling in producing potable water in back country and wilderness areas. 
Report Abuse. If you want to remove chemicals from tap water, getting a water filter such as a Brita filter is the way to go. I don't know that boiling would be of any use unless you're worried about bacteria in the water, which isn't usually a problem in most of the first world. Ambivalence · 8 years ago. · just now. Report Abuse. Boiling tap water will kill any bacteria, But it will NOT remove the minerals from the water (which you don't need). Either drink Reverse Osmosis bottled water (aquafina/Dasani), or install a RO in your home. Brita water filters do very very very little to remove anything from your water.
Heat. Most germs die quickly at high temperatures. Water that has been boiled for 1 minute is safe to drink after it has cooled. If no other method of water disinfection is available, very hot tap water may be safe to drink if it has been in the tank for a while.
Generally, boiling water, allowing it to cool and then reboiling it does not present much of a health risk. For example, if you keep water in a tea kettle, boil it and add water when the level gets low, you aren't likely to endanger your health. The chemistry of the water changes when you boil it, because this drives off the volatile compounds and dissolved gases. There are many cases where this is desirable. However, if you boil the water too long or reboil it, you risk concentrating certain undesirable chemicals that may be in your water.
The solution needs to stand for thirty minutes before it is safe to drink. This method does not kill all pathogens in water and, while it is useful in an emergency, you should try and boil drinking water where possible. Method. Boiling water is the most effective method of purifying it. To do so, you will need a heat source, such as a cooker or camping stove, and a vessel to hold the water.