QuickBooks permanently eliminates deleted invoices from the system, which means that there will not be any record of the transaction. Choose delete only if you are certain the invoice can be permanently removed from your accounting system. Open the invoice that should be deleted. Choose Edit from the toolbar. Click Delete Invoice. 1  Choose Ok to save the changes. You will be able to access the invoice number and all details regarding the transaction, should the need arise in the future. In QuickBooks, locate and open the incorrect invoice. Click Edit from the toolbar. 1  Choose Void Invoice. 2  The changes will be saved and the. 3  dollar amounts will turn to zero.
May 4, 2014 admin Leave a comment. When you delete an invoice, you delete a posted transaction, so this will affect your report totals and the customer’s balance. Also, any unbilled, non-posted transactions that were included on the invoice become available again to be included on the next invoice you create. To delete an invoice. Find/locate the Invoice to delete. From the footer, click “More”. Select Delete from the drop-down selector. Click “Yes” to confirm. After you delete an invoice, the only record of the invoice is in the audit log
When you are looking at the invoice you can press ctrl-D to delete the invoice. Or right click on it and select delete invoice. Or select delete invoice from the Edit menu. Note that this deletes it and “reverses” all the various things that happened when you created it. Items are back in inventory, charges are removed from sales and COGS accounts, and so forth. 
Just find the invoice you want to remove from the print queue, uncheck the To be printed checkbox, and move on to the next invoice to be cleared. Unfortunately, it doesn’t take a very large number to make this approach impractical. Our second approach solves the problem of clearing a large number of invoices. 
Here is a summary of the steps that were performed in the video: 1. To select an invoice to void or delete, click the Create Invoice icon on the QuickBooks homepage. 2. Locate the invoice number that you want to void/delete. 3. After you have located the invoice, click the Edit menu on the menu bar, then click Void Invoice or Delete invoice. 4. If you Delete an invoice, QuickBooks will ask you to confirm that you want to delete this transaction. If you void the invoice, the monetary amounts will be zeroed out
Go to the Customers menu and select Customer Center.. Step 2. Select the customer in the Customers & Jobs list. Click Show in the transactions pane and click on Invoice in the drop-down list. Double-click the invoice to open it. Related Reading: How to Customize an Invoice in QuickBooks. Step 3. Go to the Transactions tab if you do not know the customer's name. Select Invoices in the Transaction Types list and locate the invoice you want to void. Double-click the invoice to open it
Step 1. Launch QuickBooks. Step 2. Click to select your company file, then click Open.. Related Reading: How to Accept an Invoice Payment in QuickBooks. Step 3. Click the Banking menu, then click Make Deposits.. Step 4. Click to select the line containing the duplicate payment you want to delete.
More tutorials located at http://www.freequickbookslessons.com. There will be times when you may need to void or delete an invoice. If you void an invoice, it will no longer exist in your accounting balances as well as your customer balance. However, the invoice number and the items that were added on this invoice will remain; there will be no monetary amounts on a voided invoice. Voiding the invoice allows you to keep track of it for any future business reasons. If you delete the invoice, then there will not be any trace of it at all