A basic, one-month subscription costs $41.99. A one month subscription with the Value Package (Email Read notifications, first impressions, match phone and a highlighted profile) would cost $63.95 per month. Combining the coupon code with a 6 month subscription will triple your savings. Instead of paying $383.70 over 6-months, pay just $115.15 (A $268.55 discount!) Bonus: you'll get the Official Match.com Guarantee when you order a 6-month subscription.
About your iTunes Match subscription. When you subscribe to or turn on iTunes Match, your device or computer will be associated with your Apple ID. Your Apple ID can have up to 10 devices and computers (combined, with a maximum of five computers) associated with it. By default, iTunes Match will automatically renew your subscription at the end of your one-year subscription. You can cancel your subscription or unsubscribe to iTunes Match by turning off Automatic Renewal on your Mac or PC or on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch.
Your iTunes Match subscription adds your songs to your iCloud Music Library using iTunes so that you can enjoy them from all of your devices. To access your music from all of your other devices, turn on iCloud Music Library on each device. By default, iTunes Match will automatically renew your subscription at the end of your one-year subscription. You can cancel your subscription or unsubscribe to iTunes Match by turning off Automatic Renewal on your Mac or PC or on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch.
Here’s the breakdown of costs for basic match.com subscriptions. I’ll tell you in a bit how to save big money off these prices: 1  1 month: $35.99. 2  3 months: $59.97 ($19.99 per month). 3  6 months: $107.94 ($17.99 per month – comes with guarantee). 
Cost of Match.com. Match.com allows users to create a free online dating profile and search other users' profiles free of charge. However, only paying members can email other users—which is essential to making a connection. The Match.com cost structure allows users to pay per month or for several months at a time. Options include: 1  Paying monthly : $34.99 per month. 2  Paying for three months at a time : $59.85 (which equals $19.99 per month). 3  Paying for six months at a time : $101.94 (which equals $16.99 per month). 
At the two biggest subscription-based sites in the U.S., Match.com ($42 a month) and eHarmony ($60 a month), users can save by signing on for, say, a six-month bundle ($24 per month and $40 per month, respectively). And some sites, like PlentyofFish.com and OkCupid, offer basic membership for free. 
Match.com also offers two versions of its 6 month subscription plan: one with the 6 month guarantee and one without. Getting the guarantee costs a few dollars per month. Match.com Cost. When reviewing these costs, it is worth noting that first time subscribers can save 20% off the Match.com subscription price using this promotion. The savings using this promotion are listed in the second row below.
Well, Match.com has two pricing structures, the Basic Plan and the Bundle Plan. Basic Plan. A typical membership for Match.com is going to run you anywhere from $16-20 a month, depending on the length of membership you get. If you choose to only try one month of membership, it’s going to cost you more—around $35. Like most online dating sites, you save more when you commit to more. 
For example, if you subscribe to Match.com for 3 months using the 20% promotion, you’re only spending $5 per week ($49.97 divided by 12 weeks). It is my opinion that finding dates with other activities for less than this cost would be a tall order. Match.com Cost. When reviewing these costs, it is worth noting that first time subscribers can save 20% off the Match.com subscription price using this promotion. The savings using this promotion are listed in the second row below.