Most adults do not need polio vaccine because they were already vaccinated as children. But three groups of adults are at higher risk and should consider polio vaccination in the following situations: 1  You are traveling to polio-endemic or high-risk areas of the world. Adults in these three groups who have had 1 or 2 doses of polio vaccine in the past should get the remaining 1 or 2 doses. It doesn’t matter how long it has been since the. earlier dose(s).
There are two types of vaccine that can prevent polio: inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) and oral polio vaccine (OPV). Only IPV has been used in the United States since 2000; however OPV is still used throughout much of the world. IPV is a shot, given in the leg or arm, depending on age. Adults in these three groups who have had 1 or 2 doses of polio vaccine in the past should get the remaining 1 or 2 doses. It doesn’t matter how long it has been since the. earlier dose(s).
Who Should Not Get the Polio Vaccine. You should not receive the polio vaccine if: 1  You have had a severe allergic reaction from a previous dose of the polio vaccine. 2  You have had a severe allergic reaction to the antibiotics streptomycin, polymyxin B, or neomycin. 
Most people should get the polio vaccine when they are children. Children should be vaccinated with four doses of IPV at the following ages: 1  A dose at 2 months. 2  A dose at 4 months. 3  A dose at 6-18 months. 4  A booster dose at 4-6 years. If you had the polio vaccination prior to 2000, you may have received the oral polio vaccine (OPV), which was made from a live poliovirus. Although the live virus vaccine was highly effective at protecting against polio, a few cases of polio per year were caused by the oral vaccine itself
Most children get four doses of polio vaccine on this schedule: First dose when they are 2 months old. Second dose when they are 4 months old. Third dose when they are 6 to 18 months old. Last dose when they are 4 to 6 years old. Polio vaccine can be given as all shots (IPV), all drops (OPV), or a combination of both. 
Four doses of polio vaccine (IPV) are routinely recommended for U.S. children at ages 2 months, 4 months, 6-18 months, and 4-6 years. The first dose may be given as early as age 6 weeks. 
How often do I need a booster vaccination? If you are at continued risk of tetanus, you should get a booster vaccination every 10 years to retain a high level of immunity, as long as you had the full course of childhood vaccinations. 
There are two types of vaccine that protect against polio: inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) and oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV). IPV is given as an injection in the leg or arm, depending on the patient's age. Polio vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Most people should get polio vaccine when they are children. Children get 4 doses of IPV at these ages: 2 months, 4 months, 6-18 months, and a booster dose at 4-6 years. OPV has not been used in the United States since 2000 but is still used in many parts of the world. 
Children should be vaccinated with 4 doses of inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) at the following ages: 1  A dose at 2 months. 2  A dose at 4 months. 3  A dose at 6-18 months. 4  A booster dose at 4-6 years. Adults in these three groups who have had 1 or 2 doses of polio vaccine in the past should get the remaining 1 or 2 doses. It doesn’t matter how long it has been since the. earlier dose(s).