Kenley is an area in the burrough of Croydon in South London. The name itself probably means a well-known clearing.” Both obvious nickname options are quite masculine (Ken or Lee) - we suggest the feminine Kendra for parents consider this name. 
Kenley /ken-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Kenley is the king 's meadow . Place name. Kenley is an unusual given name for men but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#22039 out of 150436, Top 15%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Kenley for boys
Kenley Name Meaning. Scottish: reduced form of McKenley, a variant of McKinley, an Anglicized form of Gaelic Mac Fionnlaigh.English: habitational name from places in Shropshire and Greater London (formerly Surrey), so named from the Old English personal name Cena + leah ‘woodland clearing’. You can find out where the majority of the Kenley families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
Kenley is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ken-ley. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 561 in baby name popularity for girls with 542 occurrences. It ranked 3478 in popular baby names for boys with 31 occurrences. View the Kenley Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kenley has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kenley to other names. The name Kenly is a form of Kenley. Kenley falls into the name categories flower, royal title. 
Here are pictures of people with the name Kenley. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Meaning of Kenley. English name. In English, the name Kenley means-royal meadow.The name Kenley originated as an English name. The name Kenley is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-royal meadow. Origin-England
Comments and insights on the name Kenley: | Edit. well im 19 yrs old and my name is kenley... and i really dont like it but im named after my dad and great grandmother so its somethin good i guess.
It is pronounced as K EH NLiy- †. Kenley has its origins in the English language. The name Kenley means 'royal meadow'. Forms of Kenley include the names Kenlea, Kenlee, Kenleigh, Kenli, Kenlie, and Kenly. Kenley is rather popular as a baby girl name, and it is also perceived as trendy. The name has been growing in popularity since the 2000s; prior to that, it was of only very modest use. Its usage peaked recently in 2012 with 0.032% of baby girls being named Kenley. It had a ranking of #499 then.
Rather, it seems more plausible that American parents created the name as an updated version of Kendall, Kendra or Kenna (like Kenzie), or else it was inspired by the ϋber-trendy Kennedy. In any case, as an invented name, Kenley has no known meaning. Kenley first appeared on the female naming charts in 2008 so it has been around for less than five years. The name was inspired by Kenley Collins, a 25 year old sassy New York fashion designer who advanced far in the 5th season of Project Runway (airing in 2008).