The word fiqh is an Arabic term meaning deep understanding or full comprehension. Technically it refers to the body of Islamic law extracted from detailed Islamic sources (which are studied in the principles of Islamic jurisprudence) and the process of gaining knowledge of Islam through jurisprudence. In Modern Standard Arabic, fiqh has come to mean jurisprudence in general, be it Islamic or secular. It is thus possible to speak of Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. as an expert in the common law fiqh of the United States, or of Abdel Razzaq El sanhouri Pasha as an expert in the civil law fiqh of Egypt.
Sharia or sharia law (Arabic: شريعة ‎ (. [ʃaˈriːʕa]), is the basic Islamic legal system derived from the religious precepts of Islam, particularly the Quran and the Hadith. The term sharia comes from the Arabic language term sharīʿah, which means a body of moral and religious law derived from religious prophecy, as opposed to human legislation. Most countries do not recognize sharia; however, some countries in Asia, Africa and Europe recognize parts of sharia and accept it as the law on divorce, inheritance and other personal affairs of their Islamic population.
... the science of the Sharia, the sacred law of Islam.. ... the term Islamic law is used synonymously with (fiqh).. The scientific study and elucidation of the shari'a is called fiqh.. Fiqh: conceptually, the human attempt to understand divine law (shariah). Whereas shariah is immutable and infallible, fiqh is fallible and changeable.. The term fikh or fiqh simply means Islamic law. However, as endemic to much of Islamic law, the terms suffers from a lack of a consistent academic description. To some, like J. Schacht, the term is spelled fikh and is stated to mean the science of Islamic law:
Sometimes referred to as Muslim law or even Muhammadan law. Some Islamic law jurists make a distinction between sharia law and fiqh and conclude that Islamic law includes, inter alia, sharia law first, given its divine origin; and fiqh second, as a body of law which interprets sharia. Islamic law is probably best known for deterrent punishment which is the basis of the Islamic criminal system, and the discrimination against women.
Islamic civilization, since the time of Prophet Muhammad (s) until now, is firmly founded on the concept of ‘rule of law.’ For that reason, the law is published and known, and citizens and courts are expected to uphold it. In addition, Muslim citizens must adhere to Islamic law-Shariah. Shariah is the Islamic Law – the disciplines and principles that govern the behavior of a Muslim individual towards his or herself, family, neighbors, community, city, nation and the Muslim polity as a whole, the Ummah.
SHARIA (ISLAMIC LAW). Shari'a is an Arabic word meaning “path” or “way.” Today the term is used most commonly to mean “Islamic law,” the detailed system of religious law developed by Muslim scholars in the first three centuries of Islam and still in force among fundamentalists today. 
Figure 1: Spectrum for judging actions in Islamic law Sources of law. A branch of religious knowledge called fiqh, or understanding, is the theoretical foundation of Shari ah. Usul al-fiqh, or sources of law, define the principles and methods on which it is based. The recognized primary sources of Islamic law are the. 
ISLAMIC JURISPRUDENCE [FIQH]. Islamic jurisprudence may be defined as a process by means of which jurists derive sets guidelines, rules and regulations (the Shari'ah) from the principles of the Qur'an and the Sunnah. A. Having the knowledge of the rulings of Shariah (Islamic Law) which are extracted from the legislative sources. As an example, a Faqih would know the ruling for the issue of abortion; in addition, he would know how and from where this ruling was extracted.
Fiqh deals with the observance of rituals, morals and social legislation in Islam. In the modern era there are four prominent schools (madh'hab) of fiqh within Sunni practice and two (or three) within Shi'a practice. In Modern Standard Arabic, fiqh has come to mean jurisprudence in general, be it Islamic or secular. It is thus possible to speak of Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. as an expert in the common law fiqh of the United States, or of Abdel Razzaq El sanhouri Pasha as an expert in the civil law fiqh of Egypt.