It is not possible to become a compliance officer straight out of college. To reach this position, you must have at least 5 years of work experience. You can start off by pursuing entry-level or specialist level jobs in the field of compliance. As laws are becoming more complex and diversified, the need for compliance checks has become necessary. It is important that all organizations follow rules, work within legal boundaries, and adhere to laws.
Completing a bachelor degree is mandatory for any level of compliance officer career. You can earn a bachelor degree in fields such as accounting, business administration, legal studies, finance, and political science. Usually it takes four years to complete a bachelor-level program. As laws are becoming more complex and diversified, the need for compliance checks has become necessary. It is important that all organizations follow rules, work within legal boundaries, and adhere to laws.
Research what it takes to become a certified compliance officer. Learn about education requirements, job duties, average wages and job outlook to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Accounting degrees can also be found in these popular choices. As a certified compliance officer, you would make sure that your company adheres to the financial rules and regulations of its industry. The following chart outlines some of the skills of a compliance officer, required education, certification options and salary potential.
How to Become a Compliance Officer. Compliance officers typically work for the U.S Department of Labor, although some may work as contractors or consultants for private companies. They are responsible for managing any compliance conflicts that arise within companies, businesses, and other organizations. Education & Training. It is typical for compliance officers to have at least a bachelor’s degree; however, some companies will hire compliance officers who only have some college education. The best degrees for compliance officers are communications, human resources, and business degrees.
1. Assess your current skills, experience and education to determine what type of training you will need to successfully enter the field and become a bank compliance officer. Foundation skills include mathematics and statistical analysis. 1  Additional requirements include a background in finance, management and accounting. Bank compliance officers are actively involved in day-to-day operations and may be responsible for overall management duties. Becoming a bank compliance officer requires a college education.
Essential Information. A compliance officer is hired to oversee rules and regulations within a company. He or she is trusted to ensure illegal or unethical behavior does not take place within an organization. Career Info for a Compliance Officer. Compliance officers ensure that the daily operations of their company are meeting the standards, policies and laws that govern their industry. They ensure that companies are following laws and guidelines by designing and implementing policies and controls
Salary. According to the BLS, the median annual salary for compliance officers was $64,340 in 2013, but there can be wide differences in wages depending on a job’s educational, scientific and work-experience requirements. The best-paid 10 percent in the field earned $99,450 in 2013, while the lowest-paid made $36,720. 
Code Compliance Officer: Job Description and Requirements. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a code compliance officer. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about schooling, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you. 
The educational requirements for this position depend on the sector in which a compliance officer is employed; a bachelor's degree is commonly required for entry-level jobs, and many new compliance officers complete on-the-job training. Some employers prefer candidates with voluntary industry certification. Career Info for a Compliance Officer. Compliance officers ensure that the daily operations of their company are meeting the standards, policies and laws that govern their industry. They ensure that companies are following laws and guidelines by designing and implementing policies and controls