The amount of time that it will take you to earn an online accounting degree will depend on several factors.
The best way to know how much it will cost you to get an online bachelor degree in accounting is to request for free information from several of the accounting degree online c … olleges with a bachelor's degree. The tuition varies for each college.
A bachelor's degree in most areas can require between 120 to 128 college credits particular to a specific program of study. This would be based on a college or university tha … t operates on a regular two semester academic year which is the most common.
Online Bachelor Degree Program. If you choose to pursue an online bachelor’s degree in accounting, the time period to earn this type of credential will usually be about 36 to 48 months. If you take courses during the summertime, you may be able to shorten your studies to about 30 months.
A: The duration of an accounting program will depend upon the level of degree you are planning to pursue. If you are an undergraduate student and wish to enroll in an associate program, it will take you two years. On the other hand, a bachelor degree takes four years to complete.
Best Answer: Well if you stay on top of everything and take courses as you should, you can get a B.A. degree in accounting in four years! But i have to say that now the average time it takes to get a degree now a days is 5 years.
Associate’s degree programs in accounting last for about two years. Bachelor’s degree programs, meanwhile, can be completed in four years. These programs cover courses on taxes, economics and business administration.
A master’s degree in accounting or a master’s degree in business administration (MBA) will require another two more years of study. Those who wish to obtain a doctorate degree in the field will have to study for two to three years more.
Associate level degrees can of course be earned in less time than bachelor level and graduate level degrees. More so, if you can take classes during the summertime, you will find it much quicker to complete your online accounting degree.