Co-translational folding of a nascent protein and refolding of a denatured protein are fundamentally different processes. Refolding involves the rearrangement of segments of full-length proteins, the conformation of which is in a state of disarray that is dependent on the denaturant and conditions. Before proceeding, it is necessary to define ‘nascent’ and ‘co-translational’ in the sense that these terms will be used. We use the term nascent peptide or nascent protein to mean peptidyl-tRNA bound to the peptidyl transferase center of a ribosome.
Cotranslational transport. Definition. noun. The process by which protein synthesis is closely coupled with the translocation of the growing protein to the destination within the cell, such as rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER) and plasma membranes. 
cotranslational. Definitions: 1. Any process involving the maturation or delivery of a protein that occurs during the process of translation. The definition information for cotranslational is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
Protein targeting or protein sorting is the biological mechanism by which proteins are transported to the appropriate destinations in the cell or outside of it. Proteins can be targeted to the inner space of an organelle, different intracellular membranes, plasma membrane, or to exterior of the cell via secretion. This delivery process is carried out based on information contained in the protein itself. Correct sorting is crucial for the cell; errors can lead to diseases. Targeting signals are the pieces of information that enable the cellular transport machinery to correctly position a protein inside or outside the cell. This information is contained in the polypeptide chain or in the folded protein.
Process of protein synthesis coupled with translocation of the end-product to its final destination within the cell. CO-TRANSLATIONAL TRANSPORT: Co-translational transport can take place on the membrane of rough endoplasmic reticulum.. Did you find this definition of CO-TRANSLATIONAL TRANSPORT helpful? You can share it by copying the code below and adding it to your blog or web page.
There are several distinct pathways, which target secretory protein to the ER. In this review, we focus on the universally conserved co-translational translocation pathway, which also integrates membrane proteins into lipid bilayer [1] and [2] . Alternative ER targeting pathways, which are not directly coupled to translation, are covered elsewhere in this issue (Johnson et al, in this issue). Co-translational protein targeting to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), represents an evolutionary-conserved mechanism to target proteins into the secretory pathway.
This also results in the translocation of the amino terminus of the protein into the ER membrane lumen. This would seem to break the rule of co-translational translocation which has always held for mammalian proteins targeted to the ER. 