Baby back ribs cook relatively quickly and due to their marbling, they have provide great flavor all by themselves. A dry rub is often the perfect compliment without overpowering. Some people like rubbing and then finishing with a sauce, but sometimes the rub and the ribs alone should be the star of the show. The easiest way to do this is by using a gas grill with at least 3 burners. We want to maintain about 300 – 325 degrees for a little over 2 hours for baby back ribs. If you have a gas grill with 3 burners, you can keep the outside 2 burners on medium-low, while leaving the middle burner off.
1 1 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to medium (350°F to 450°F). 2  2 Remove the ribs from the foil, place them meaty-side up on the grill, and brush them with some of the sauce. 3  Cover the grill and cook for 5 minutes. 4  Flip and brush the ribs and cook another 5 minutes. To grill the ribs: 1  1 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to medium (350°F to 450°F). 2  2 Remove the ribs from the foil, place them meaty-side up on the grill, and brush them with some of the sauce. 3  3 Transfer the ribs to a cutting board and cut the racks between the bones.
9. For these baby back ribs we are doing the 2-1-1 method. So we cook the ribs uncovered with smoke for the first 2 hours. Then wrap the baby back ribs in aluminum foil and let them cook for 1 hour. This method makes the ribs really tender. After the 1 hour of cooking them in the foil remove them from the foil and let them cook on the grill for 1 more hour. 
Ok, the back side of your baby back ribs are ready, now it’s time to focus on the meat side. Mix your rub ingredients well in a bowl. Now sprinkle the rub on the ribs generously and rub it into the ribs. Yes, you have to get your hands dirty, it’s worth it. The easiest way to do this is by using a gas grill with at least 3 burners. We want to maintain about 300 – 325 degrees for a little over 2 hours for baby back ribs. If you have a gas grill with 3 burners, you can keep the outside 2 burners on medium-low, while leaving the middle burner off.
1 Grill your ribs for 3 hours bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 to 60 minutes. 3  Same as with baby backs, you can an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. 1 Grill the ribs for 2 hours, bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 minutes. 3  Don't be afraid to add
To get the best possible ribs from your gas grill, all you need is this seven-step process. For this example, I am using a full rack of trimmed spareribs. You can use baby back ribs with this same method, but reduce the cooking time about 5 minutes per stage. Otherwise, the total cooking time will be between 1 1/2 and 2 hours. Your gas grill must be large enough and contain at least two burners since these ribs will be cooked indirectly. 
Here are some baby back ribs cooking on my gas grill. If you are cooking your ribs on a covered grill, then you need to use indirect heat, and monitor the temperature of your grill very closely. Get the grill stabilized at the correct temperature of 225° F (about 105° C) before putting the ribs on it. The trick to great ribs is to cook them very slowly with the BBQ sauce on them. You can do this in an oven, just set the temperature to 225° F (about 107° C). I occasionally use an electric smoker, which cooks at about 200 to 225 degrees Fahrenheit. I've also used this method on my gas grill and in my oven.
The time it takes you to cook the ribs may vary depending on the true temperature of your grill, oven, or smoker, the temperature of the ribs when you start, and other factors. Baby back ribs take 30 to 45 minutes less than spareribs. The trick to great ribs is to cook them very slowly with the BBQ sauce on them. You can do this in an oven, just set the temperature to 225° F (about 107° C). I occasionally use an electric smoker, which cooks at about 200 to 225 degrees Fahrenheit. I've also used this method on my gas grill and in my oven.
To grill the ribs: 1  1 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to medium (350°F to 450°F). 2  2 Remove the ribs from the foil, place them meaty-side up on the grill, and brush them with some of the sauce. 3  Cover the grill and cook for 5 minutes. 4  Flip and brush the ribs and cook another 5 minutes. To grill the ribs: 1  1 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to medium (350°F to 450°F). 2  2 Remove the ribs from the foil, place them meaty-side up on the grill, and brush them with some of the sauce. 3  3 Transfer the ribs to a cutting board and cut the racks between the bones.
Broil the ribs for about 5 minutes, until the sugar in the dry rub is bubbling and the ribs are evenly browned. Bake the ribs: Set the oven to 300°F. Move the ribs to an oven rack in the middle of the oven. Roast for 2 1/2 to 3 hours for spare ribs or 1 1/2 to 2 hours for baby back ribs. Halfway through cooking, cover the ribs with aluminum foil to protect them from drying out