The Philippine tarsier (Carlito syrichta), known locally as mawmag in Cebuano / Visayans and mamag in Luzon, is a species of tarsier endemic to the Philippines. It is found in the southeastern part of the archipelago, particularly on the islands of Bohol, Samar, Leyte and Mindanao. It is a member of the approximately 45-million-year-old family Tarsiidae, whose name is derived from its elongated  tarsus  or ankle bone.
So far, three fossil species of the genus Tarsius are known from the fossil record: 1  Tarsius eocaenus is known from the Middle Eocene in China. 2  Tarsius thailandicus lived during the Early Miocene in northwestern Thailand. 3  Tarsius sirindhornae lived during the Middle Miocene in northern Thailand. Tarsiers are haplorrhine primates of the family Tarsiidae, which is itself the lone extant family within the infraorder Tarsiiformes. Although the group was once more widespread, all the species living today are found in the islands of Southeast Asia.
You can see how Tarzia families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate. Find out where people with the family name Tarzia lived before coming to the United States. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Tarzia ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Tarzia ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.
Recorded in many forms including Don, Donne, Doon Dunn, Dunne (English, Scottish and Irish) , Don, Dodon, Donnet, Donard (France), Doni, Dono, and diminutives and compounds such as Doncello and Donato (Italy) and no doubt others, this is a surname with several potential and often overlapping origins. Firstly wherever found it may derive from the pre 5h century Celtic or Gaelic word 'donn' meaning brown, as in brown skinned or brown hair, or the similar Anglo-Saxon 'dunn'. Secondly it may be from a fused form of the French locational surname 'de Hon', said to be from the departement of Nord.
Tarzia in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Tarzia genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Tarzia surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Web Sites. Tarzia Genealogy. Welcome to some of the best Tarzia genealogy resources found on the web. We hope you will participate on the Tarzia forums, it is a great place to find or post information on Tarzia genealogy and is completely free to participate. We have collected some of the best resources from across the web to do research on Tarzia history, Tarzia ancestory, and Tarzia family connections
Tazia /ta-zia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. The meaning of the name Tazia is resurrection. Tazia is an alternate spelling of Tasia (American, Greek): short version of Anastasia. Compare surname Tazi. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of Tazia and affiliated names. The only prominent related form of Tazia (not ranked) ranked in the Top 1000 is Tasia. This girl name was at the height of its popularity in the year 1998 (usage of 0.196%) and has become much less widespread since.
An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Tarzia ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Tarzia ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.
Tazia is a rare first name for women. Tazia is an equivalently rare surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of Tazia and affiliated names. The only prominent related form of Tazia (not ranked) ranked in the Top 1000 is Tasia. This girl name was at the height of its popularity in the year 1998 (usage of 0.196%) and has become much less widespread since.