For water heating, you can add a desuperheater to a geothermal heat pump system. A desuperheater is a small, auxiliary heat exchanger that uses superheated gases from the heat pump's compressor to heat water. This hot water then circulates through a pipe to the home's storage water heater tank. Desuperheaters are also available for tankless or demand-type water heaters
That waste heat can be used to produce domestic hot water. The hot water generating component of a geothermal system is called a desuperheater. It is merely a pump and a heat exchanger that is plumbed in such a way so as to carry waste heat away from the refrigeration cycle and into your water heater. It does not affect the heat output of the geothermal system in the winter. When operating, a desuperheater is capable of producing hot water with a temperature of 120F to 150F. When the compressor is not operating, the system doesn’t make any hot water. The balance of the hot water needs must be made up with gas, electric or some other fuel.
Desuperheater. a heat exchanger used to lower the temperature of superheated steam in a boiler unit or before a turbine. A desuperheater is usually installed either in the intermediate header, which receives partially superheated steam, or at the point where the steam leaves the superheater. The steam is cooled by a water feed that removes heat from the steam
Hi. Superheated steam is steam that is at a temperature higher than the saturation temperature for the steam pressure. For example, steam at a pressure of 3 bar g has a saturation temperature of 143.762°C. If further heat were to be added to this steam and the pressure remained at 3 bar g, it would become superheated.
RE: Difference between attemperator and desuperheater. An attemporator controls steam temperature while a desuperheater removes whatever superheat there is in steam and reduces the temperature to a point at or nearly at saturation temperature. 
Heating water with a geothermal heat pump's hot water generator costs about 80 percent less in a heating dominated climate, and up to 95 percent less in a cooling dominated climate, than if you heat your domestic water with an electric, oil, or propane fired hot water heater. In the summer heating your domestic water is almost free. This is because the heat that is being removed from your home is transferred into your hot water tank. Since this heat from inside of your home was going to be rejected (thrown away) into the earth anyway, putting it into your hot water tank instead is free.
A desuperheater is a secondary heat exchanger that transfers heat from the earth in the winter, and from your home in the summer, into your domestic hot water tank. The desuperheater is part of the geothermal heat pump's domestic hot water generating system (HWG). Hot water generators only heat domestic water when your geothermal heat pump is heating or cooling your home. In the summer heating your domestic water is almost free. This is because the heat that is being removed from your home is transferred into your hot water tank. Since this heat from inside of your home was going to be rejected (thrown away) into the earth anyway, putting it into your hot water tank instead is free.
Most desuperheater applications reduce the temperature of steam generated by high pressure/high temperature boilers to levels required in process operations. The primary funct … ion of a desuperheater is to lower the temperature of superheated steam or other vapors. For example, steam at a pressure of 3 bar g has a saturation temperature of 143.762°C. If further heat were to be added to this steam and the pressure remained at 3 bar g, it would become superheated.