Beneficiaries’ Right to Information. During probate, beneficiaries of a decedent’s estate may demand information from the executor. Information a beneficiary is entitled to includes what assets the estate holds, how much debt the estate needs to pay and which assets are being used or sold to settle that debt. Beneficiaries may request ongoing reports from the executor about the administration of the estate and how its assets are being spent. The executor also has a responsibility to the decedent’s beneficiaries to ensure each one gets the property the decedent wanted them to have, as defined by the will. This process can become difficult if the executor is also a beneficiary of the estate.
You can choose to make a specific bequest to the executor. This will allow the executor to receive the funds as an inheritance rather than an executor’s fee. The executor’s fee is taxable as income. If the executor is also a beneficiary they usually do not take the executor’s fee as well. If you specifically note the bequest is in lieu of the executor’s fee, this may cause CRA to still have you declare it as income
The executor is entitled to charge for the administration of the estate. Typically, as a guideline, the fee is 2.5 per cent of assets in and assets out or disbursed. If the estate is administered for a period of time there can be an additional fee of two-fifths of 1 per cent of the average value of the estate. This will allow the executor to receive the funds as an inheritance rather than an executor’s fee. The executor’s fee is taxable as income. If the executor is also a beneficiary they usually do not take the executor’s fee as well.
In most cases, the answer is yes, you are entitled to receive executor fees for your services. However, there are some issues to consider before you can receive payment from the estate. If there is a Will, the deceased may have specified the amount of compensation or prohibited executor fees. 
The general rule is that an executor is entitled to 2.5% of the assets of the estate gathered in, 2.5% of the value of the estate assets distributed, and 2/5 of 1% of the average value of the estate, if the estate is invested for a period time. A beneficiary may make representations to the court whether or not the beneficiary has any objection to the proposed executor being appointed. An estate beneficiary is entitled to information concerning the original assets to the estate and in relation to the ongoing accounting of the estate. If the executor does not produce this information voluntarily, a beneficiary may require that the executor complete a court supervised review of the accounts
Executors and beneficiaries of a will have a unique relationship under the law. An executor’s role is to ensure the management of a deceased person’s estate complies with the decedent’s will and the probate rules of the state where he died. The executor also has a responsibility to the decedent’s beneficiaries to ensure each one gets the property the decedent wanted them to have, as defined by the will. This process can become difficult if the executor is also a beneficiary of the estate.
She would be entitled to $10,000 on the first $200,000 of the estate ($200,000 * 5% = $10,000), and $7,000 on the remaining $200,000 ($200,000 * 3.5% = $7,000). All in all, our executor is entitled to a commission of $17,360. Of that, $17,000 is a corpus or principal commission and $360 is an income commission. Assume that before making the distributions to the estate s beneficiaries, the estate has earned $6,000 in interest income; any income that the estate s assets earn after the decedent s death and before distribution to the beneficiaries is income of the estate. The executor is entitled to 6% of the $6,000 of income. In other words, the executor s income commission is $360 ($6,000 * 6% = $360). In addition to the income commission, the executor is entitled to a corpus commission.. Corpus is a Latin word. For those of you who don t speak Latin few as they may be the corpus of the estate is the principal of the estate. In my example, the principal of the estate is the $400,000
A beneficiary is entitled to receive their entitlement under the estate in a timely way. The length of time will depend on the nature and complexity of the estate. Generally, if the executor completes the administration within one year, they will not be criticized. A beneficiary may make representations to the court whether or not the beneficiary has any objection to the proposed executor being appointed. An estate beneficiary is entitled to information concerning the original assets to the estate and in relation to the ongoing accounting of the estate. If the executor does not produce this information voluntarily, a beneficiary may require that the executor complete a court supervised review of the accounts