Australian National Flag The Australian National Flag is Australia’s foremost national symbol. The flag was first flown in 1901 and has become an expression of Australian identity and pride. The flag is an important part of national occasions such as stralia Day, Anzac Day, Au and Australian National Flag Day. The Australian National Flag has three elements on. a blue background
The flag of Australia is a defaced Blue Ensign: a blue field with the Union Jack in the canton (upper hoist quarter), and a large white seven-pointed star known as the Commonwealth Star in the lower hoist quarter. The outer diameter of the Commonwealth Star is 3/10 of the flag's width, while that of the stars in the Southern Cross is 1/7 of the flag's width, except for Epsilon, for which the fraction is 1/12. Each star's inner diameter is 4/9 of the outer diameter.
The flag of Australia is a national flag. In 1901, Australia became a single country, instead of six separate colonies. A competition was held to design a new flag for the new country. The winning flag has a blue background, the Union Jack, and six stars. 
The Australian Aboriginal Flag was designed by artist Harold Thomas and first flown at Victoria Square in Adelaide, South Australia, on National Aborigines Day, 12 July 1971. It became the official flag for the Aboriginal Tent Embassy in Canberra after it was first flown there in 1972. The Aboriginal flag should be flown or displayed with the black at the top and the red at the bottom. Any questions on how and when to display the Australian Aboriginal Flag should be directed to the Commonwealth Flag Officer in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
The flag's original design (with a six-pointed Commonwealth Star) was chosen in 1901 from entries in a competition held following Federation, and was first flown in Melbourne on 3 September 1901, the date proclaimed as Australian National Flag Day. The outer diameter of the Commonwealth Star is 3/10 of the flag's width, while that of the stars in the Southern Cross is 1/7 of the flag's width, except for Epsilon, for which the fraction is 1/12. Each star's inner diameter is 4/9 of the outer diameter.
The Australian Red ensign is the official flag to be flown at sea by Australian registered merchant ships. Proclamation The Flags Act 1953 proclaimed the Australian National Flag. Use of the Australian National Flag The flag can be flown every day of the year. The flag was first flown in 1901 and has become an expression of Australian identity and pride. The flag is an important part of national occasions such as stralia Day, Anzac Day, Au and Australian National Flag Day. The Australian National Flag has three elements on.
The Flags Act 1953 formally adopted the current design as Australia′s National Flag and the Act was assented to by Queen Elizabeth II on her first visit to Australia on 15 April 1954, the first Act of the Australian Parliament to receive assent by the Monarch rather than the Governor General. Finally, more than 53 years after the first design was hoisted, Australia had an official national flag. The Australian flag was usually flown in conjunction with, often in an inferior position to, the Union Flag of the UK well into the 1960s despite the requirements of the Flags Act 1953.
The Australian Defence Force Ensign-the flag represents the Australian Defence Force and the three services collectively. The dark blue stripe and the anchor in the central emblem represent the RAN, the red stripe and the crossed swords for the Australian Army, whilst the light blue stripe and eagle is for the RAAF. The flag is flown by warships from the ensign staff at the stern. The blue Australian national flag is flown on the jack-staff at the bow, when vessels are in port. Prior to 1967, the RAN used the British White Ensign.
The Australian White Ensign-the national flag for use by commissioned warships and shore establishments of the Royal Australian Navy. The flag is flown by warships from the ensign staff at the stern. The blue Australian national flag is flown on the jack-staff at the bow, when vessels are in port. Prior to 1967, the RAN used the British White Ensign. The RAAF Ensign-the official flag of the Royal Australian Air Force
The Australian Army does not have a separate flag, but uses the Australian National Flag. The Australian Aboriginal flag and the Torres Strait Islanders flag in 1995 were proclaimed to be Flags of Australia under the Flags Act 1953. The flag is flown by warships from the ensign staff at the stern. The blue Australian national flag is flown on the jack-staff at the bow, when vessels are in port. Prior to 1967, the RAN used the British White Ensign.