Deep-ocean tsunami detection buoys are one of two types of instrument used by the Bureau of Meteorology (Bureau) to confirm the existence of tsunami waves generated by undersea earthquakes. These buoys observe and record changes in sea level out in the deep ocean.
Lateral Buoys. Port (green can). Keep this buoy on your port (left) side when proceeding in the upstream direction. Bifurcation (red and green bands). You may pass this buoy on either side when proceeding in the upstream direction, but the main or preferred channel is indicated by the colour of the topmost band.
A buoy (/ˈbɔɪ/ , also /ˈbwɔɪ/ or US /ˈbuːiː/) is a floating device that can have many purposes. It can be anchored (stationary) or allowed to drift with the sea wave. The word, of Old French or Middle Dutch origin, is (in British English) now most commonly pronounced /ˈbɔɪ/ (identical with boy, as in buoyant).
buoy. n. 1. A float placed in water and usually moored, as to mark a location, enable retrieval of a sunken object, or record oceanographic data. 2. A life buoy. tr.v. buoyed, buoy·ing, buoys. 1. To keep afloat or aloft: a glider buoyed by air currents. 2.
Port Hand and Starboard Hand Buoys. Port hand buoys are green and starboard hand buoys are red. They show which side of a channel is safest to travel; accordingly, they mark channels or hazards. Generally, green buoys must be passed on the left side of a craft heading upstream, i.e., against the current.
1 Safe water mark or Fairway Buoy – a navigational buoy which marks the entrance to a channel or a nearby landfall. 2  Emergency Wreck Buoys-Emergency Wreck Buoys provide a clear and unambiguous means of marking new wrecks. 3  This buoy is used as a temporary response, typically for the first 24 - 72 hours.
A buoy can also be used as part of a tsunami warning system. Buoys typically keep track of changes in water level, and a sudden drop which can signal a tsunami will usually result in a prompt communication with a central monitoring center, allowing agencies to warn people about incoming tsunamis and storm surges.