Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A slump test is a method used to determine the consistency of concrete. The consistency, sometimes described in terms of stiffness, generally indicates how much water has been used in the mix. Wet concrete must have suitable stiffness for a construction job, and a slump test double-checks that stiffness prior to the concrete's use. Too little water makes concrete difficult to work with, while too little makes it soft and reduces durability.
The slump test is suitable for slumps of medium to high workability, slump in the range of 5 – 260 mm, the test fails to determine the difference in workability in stiff mixes which have zero slump, or for wet mixes that give a collapse slump. It is limited to concrete formed of aggregates of less than 38 mm (1.5 inch). A collapse slump is an indication of too wet a mix. Only a true slump is of any use in the test. A collapse slump will generally mean that the mix is too wet or that it is a high workability mix, for which slump test is not appropriate.
Please try again later. Slump Test is an orthopedic test used to help diagnose nerve root injury and is considered positive if pain/radiculopathy exists. It contains multiple components that include thoracic and lumbar flexion, neck flexion, foot dorsiflexion, and knee extention. 
The slump test is a means of assessing the consistency of fresh concrete. It is used, indirectly, as a means of checking that the correct amount of water has been added to the mix. The test is carried out in accordance with BS EN 12350-2, Testing fresh concrete. Slump test. In a shear slump the top portion of the concrete shears off and slips sideways. In a collapse slump the concrete collapses completely. Only a true slump is of any use in the test. If a shear or collapse slump is achieved, a fresh sample should be taken and the test repeated. A collapse slump will generally mean that the mix is too wet or that it is a high workability mix, for which the flow test (see separate entry) is more appropriate
The slump test result is a measure of the behavior of a compacted inverted cone of concrete under the action of gravity. It measures the consistency or the wetness of concrete. Shear Slump. In a shear slump the top portion of the concrete shears off and slips sideways. OR. If one-half of the cone slides down an inclined plane, the slump is said to be a shear slump. 1  If a shear or collapse slump is achieved, a fresh sample should be taken and the test is repeated.
1 The mold for the slump test is a frustum of a cone, 300 mm (12 in) of height. 2  The base is 200 mm (8in) in diameter and it has a smaller opening at the top of 100 mm (4 in). 3  The base is placed on a smooth surface and the container is filled with concrete in three layers, whose workability is to be tested. Shear Slump. In a shear slump the top portion of the concrete shears off and slips sideways. OR. If one-half of the cone slides down an inclined plane, the slump is said to be a shear slump. 1  If a shear or collapse slump is achieved, a fresh sample should be taken and the test is repeated.
The concrete slump test is an empirical test that measures the workability of fresh concrete. More specifically, it measures the consistency of the concrete in that specific batch. This test is performed to check the consistency of freshly made concrete. Consistency is a term very closely related to workability. A collapse slump is an indication of too wet a mix. Only a true slump is of any use in the test. A collapse slump will generally mean that the mix is too wet or that it is a high workability mix, for which slump test is not appropriate.
The slump is test result is a slump of the behaviour of a compacted inverted cone of concrete under the action of gravity. It measures the consistency or the wetness of concrete. A collapse slump is an indication of too wet a mix. Only a true slump is of any use in the test. A collapse slump will generally mean that the mix is too wet or that it is a high workability mix, for which slump test is not appropriate.
A slump test is a method used to determine the consistency of concrete. The consistency, or stiffness, indicates how much water has been used in the mix. The stiffness of the concrete mix should be matched to the requirements for the finished product quality. Shear Slump. In a shear slump the top portion of the concrete shears off and slips sideways. OR. If one-half of the cone slides down an inclined plane, the slump is said to be a shear slump. 1  If a shear or collapse slump is achieved, a fresh sample should be taken and the test is repeated.