A gastroscopy often takes less than 15 minutes, although it may take longer if it's being used to treat a condition. It's usually carried out as an outpatient procedure, which means you won't have to spend the night in hospital. Before the procedure, your throat will be numbed with a local anaesthetic spray. A gastroscopy is a procedure where a thin, flexible tube called an end oscope is used to look inside the oesophagus (gullet), stomach and first part of the small intestine (duodenum). It's also sometimes referred to as an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. The endoscope has a light and a camera at one end.
The actual time spent on an examination will vary between patients and examinations. In general, an examination of the stomach (gastroscopy) will take 5-15 minutes and one of the colon (colonoscopy) 20-40 minutes. You don't need to bring anything specific with you (no change of clothing etc). You might like to bring the instructions sent to you with your appointment details. If you are having an examination of your stomach (gastroscopy), it is possible to do this while you are awake (see above) using a throat spray and no sedative. If you can't bring an escort with you, this is what we will suggest to you.
1 A gastroscopy usually takes 5-10 minutes to complete. 2  After the procedure, it usually takes about 30-45 minutes if you received sedation to recover adequately enough to leave the facility with adult accompaniment. 3  Back to the top. 
Answers. Best Answer: The procedure itself can take from 2 to 15 minutes...depending what is found. However, allow 2 hours from the time you get there until the time you depart. This covers the prep time (time spent waiting for scheduled procedure), the procedure itself and then recovery time. The short time does not mean he is not being thorough. The procedure it not a long one to start with. show more I'm having one next week because of a suspected peptic ulcer. But the doctor doing it said the procedure will take no more than 2 and a half minutes. I've heard of it taking up to 20 minutes.
Talk with your doctor about any concerns you may have. During the procedure. An upper endoscopy usually takes 20 to 30 minutes to complete. Before the procedure begins, you will take off your shirt and put on a hospital gown. If you wear dentures, you may be asked to remove them. 
1 Answer. 0. A typical Gastroscopy can last anywhere from 15-20 minutes on average (plus recovery time of about 30 minutes). The whole process should last no more than 1.5 - 2 hours. A typical Colonoscopy can last anywhere from 20-30 minutes on average (plus recovery time of about 30-45 minutes)
The procedure. A gastroscopy often takes less than 15 minutes, although it may take longer if it's being used to treat a condition. The procedure will usually be carried out by an endoscopist (a healthcare professional who specialises in performing endoscopies) and assisted by a nurse. 
The endoscope is then gently pulled out. A gastroscopy usually takes about 10 minutes. However, you should allow at least two hours for the whole appointment. This is to prepare, give time for the sedative to work (if you have one), for the gastroscopy itself and to recover. 
Introduction. A gastroscopy is a procedure where a thin, flexible tube called an end oscope is used to look inside the oesophagus (gullet), stomach and first part of the small intestine (duodenum). It's also sometimes referred to as an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. The endoscope has a light and a camera at one end.