Carter shows up on site and is stopped by Mayfair from shooting Jane. He then openly demands Dodi or Jane for the CIA, so Mayfair gives up Dodi. Kurt's father Bill visits his sister, but Kurt refuses to reconcile. Carter pays off Zapata's gambling debts and demands all the FBI's information about Jane in return. The site's critical consensus reads,  Blindspot is elevated by an intriguing mystery and enough strong action to propel most viewers into a necessary suspense of disbelief.. On Metacritic, the series has a score of 65 out of 100, based on 32 critics, indicating generally favorable reviews.
Tasha Zapata is a FBI agent and a member of Kurt Weller team. Her relationship to Jane. 
If Carter looks familiar to you, that’s because the actor portraying him, Michael Gaston, is in everything! Gaston is best known for his roles in The Leftovers (Dean), Mad Men (Burt Peterson), The Mentalist (Gale Bertram), The Good Wife (Ernie Nolan) and Damages (Roger Kastle). He’s also starring opposite of Tom Hanks in Steven Spielberg’s latest film, Bridge of Spies. Gaston tweeted from the New York Film Festival: “I’m starting to get a little sick of my own face.” We're not! Blindspot airs Mondays at 10pm on CBS.
When the unknown man in Jane's apartment warns her about the FBI, he is shot by a sniper, which makes Jane suspicious and cautious. The FBI is unable to identify his body. Patterson finds the number of the redacted FBI case file of gang leader Saul Saúl, guerrero which was led By, mayfair who pretends not to. remember The site's critical consensus reads,  Blindspot is elevated by an intriguing mystery and enough strong action to propel most viewers into a necessary suspense of disbelief.. On Metacritic, the series has a score of 65 out of 100, based on 32 critics, indicating generally favorable reviews.
HDTV-14Closed CaptioningVideoEight Slim Grins. Jane's Navy SEAL tattoo ties her to a criminal who may have clues to her past. When an infamous crew of thieves almost pulls off the perfect jewel heist, one thief – with an identical Navy SEAL tattoo to Jane's – is captured at the scene of the crime. With every passing day, Jane unveils a new skill or a hidden talent without understanding its origin, while Weller is drawn deeper into his troubled, complicated relationship with this enigmatic woman. They both strive to make a connection, unaware of the dangerous blindspot that threatens them.
The series was ordered by NBC on May 1, 2015, and premiered on September 21, 2015. A back-nine-order was given on October 9, 2015, bringing the first season to a total of 22 episodes. Blindspot focuses on a mysterious tattooed woman who has lost her memory and does not know her own identity. The site's critical consensus reads,  Blindspot is elevated by an intriguing mystery and enough strong action to propel most viewers into a necessary suspense of disbelief.. On Metacritic, the series has a score of 65 out of 100, based on 32 critics, indicating generally favorable reviews.
Blindspot 2015 | TV Show Watchlist. An unidentified woman with amnesia is found covered with tattoos, and the FBI soon realize that each mark on her body reveals a crime to be solved. More mysteries (and more tattoos) are coming to NBC. The network has given Blindspot a full season order two weeks after calling for more scripts of the drama, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
The new TV series Blindspot stars Jaimie Alexander as Jane Doe, a woman found naked in a body bag in Times Square with tattoos all over her. She is sent to FBI agent Kurt Weller (Sullivan Stapleton) who gets the help of CIA Deputy Director Tom Carter. Together they try to decode the tattoos. He’s also starring opposite of Tom Hanks in Steven Spielberg’s latest film, Bridge of Spies. Gaston tweeted from the New York Film Festival: “I’m starting to get a little sick of my own face.” We're not! Blindspot airs Mondays at 10pm on CBS.
Storyline. A woman with no memories of her past (Jane Doe), is found naked in Times Square with her body fully covered in intricate tattoos. The 2000 Christopher Nolan film Memento is considered a major influence behind the series. The film is about a man (Guy Pearce) suffering from short-term memory loss who has tattoos on his body.