The last film in the Harry Potter series, The Deathly Hallows, is currently being filmed in Hertfordshire on a set recently visited by President Barack Obama's wife Michelle and their children, Malia and Sasha. The movie, starring Daniel Radcliffe as Harry, will be released in two parts. The actor who plays schoolboy wizard Ron Weasley in the Harry Potter films has succumbed to swine flu.
Born 23 July 1989 (age 24) Radcliffe made his acting debut at age ten in BBC One's 1999 television movie David Copperfield, followed by his film debut in 2001's The Tailor of Panama. At 11 he started starring as Harry Potter. Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley (appeared in all 8 films). Born 24 August 1988 (age 24) Grint was cast as Ron Weasley at the age of 11, having previously acted only in school plays and at his local theatre group. From 2001 to 2011, he starred in all eight Harry Potter films alongside Daniel Radcliffe and Emma Watson. Grint chose to try out for the part of protagonist Ron Weasley, one of Harry Potter's best friends at Hogwarts, because he had ginger-coloured hair, and was a fan of the book series
Spell of bad health: Rupert Grint was diagnosed with the virus last Thursday. Perhaps he should have been protected by a magic spell... The actor who plays schoolboy wizard Ron Weasley in the Harry Potter films has succumbed to swine flu. Red-haired Rupert Grint was forced to take a week out of filming the latest instalment in the hugely successful series based on the J.K.Rowling bestsellers
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland have voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling. Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have played Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the films. When they were cast only Radcliffe had previously acted in a film. When David Yates was directing the fifth film, Bill Nighy (who knew Yates personally) said that he hoped the director would cast him in Harry Potter. But nobody called, Nighy added. However, in 2009, Yates cast Nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in the seventh film.
Rowling praised the film series' acting talent and announced that there are seven young Harry Potter cast members who she refers to as The Big Seven; they are Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Tom Felton, Matthew Lewis, Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright. When David Yates was directing the fifth film, Bill Nighy (who knew Yates personally) said that he hoped the director would cast him in Harry Potter. But nobody called, Nighy added. However, in 2009, Yates cast Nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in the seventh film.
Bonnie Wright. Bonnie Francesca Wright (born 17 February 1991) is an English actress, model, screenwriter, director, and producer. She is best known for playing the role of Ginny Weasley in the Harry Potter film series, based on the Harry Potter novel series by British author J. K. Rowling. In 2014, she took part in the third series of The Great Sport/Comic Relief Bake Off: she won the first episode, being named the Star Baker.
Actor | Writer | Visual Effects. Mark Williams was born on August 22, 1959 in Bromsgrove, Worcestershire, England. He is an actor and writer, known for Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005), Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002) and Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004). He is married to Dianne Williams. They have one chil
This article is about the actor who plays Harry Potter. You may be looking for the in-universe actor. Point me!. Daniel Jacob Radcliffe (born 23 July, 1989), from Fulham, London, is a British actor who is best known for playing Harry Potter, the main character of the film adaptations of the Harry Potter series. 
Also in 2006, she starred in the film Driving Lessons alongside Rupert Grint (who played her son Ron in the Harry Potter series), and later had a leading role in the BBC 's adaptation of Philip Pullman 's novel The Ruby in the Smoke. Her other film roles include Personal Services (1987), Prick Up Your Ears (1987), Buster (1988), Stepping Out (1991), Calendar Girls (2003) and Mamma Mia! (2008). She has also played Molly Weasley in seven of the eight Harry Potter films (2001–2011).