The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that a BSW degree is required for most direct-service social work positions, though some may require an MSW. These positions include a social welfare case worker or mental health assistant. An MSW is required for clinical social workers and for many supervisory positions. A social worker with an MSW degree can expect an average salary of $40,000. Some experienced social workers who have private practices or who serve as senior administrators earn more than $100,000.
One way to begin a social work career is by earning a Bachelor of Social Work and Master of Social Work degree from a college or university that is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. The Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) is the undergraduate social work degree. A social worker with an MSW degree can expect an average salary of $40,000. Some experienced social workers who have private practices or who serve as senior administrators earn more than $100,000.
A BSW prepares graduates for entry-level social work positions. According to the National Association of Social Workers, the wide variety of social work positions makes it difficult to define an average salary range, but graduates with BSW degrees can expect to earn up to $30,000 per year. A social worker with an MSW degree can expect an average salary of $40,000. Some experienced social workers who have private practices or who serve as senior administrators earn more than $100,000.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Social Worker (BSW) may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Requires a bachelor's degree in social work and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks. Works under general supervision.
A social worker with an MSW degree can expect an annual income ranging between $40,000 and $60,000; a DSW can anticipate an annual income of more than $40,000. A few experienced private practitioners and senior administrators earn as much as $100,000. Social work salaries have a high variability. 
Social Work Salaries. The following is a breakdown of the average social worker salaries in all 50 states and for several different specializations, courtesy of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Social worker salaries can vary widely depending on several factors, including your specialization, state and qualifications. Qualifications can range from the number of years spent as a social worker, whether or not you have a Masters of Social Work and what types of special certifications you might hold.
Social workers who specialize in children and family welfare made a median salary of $42,120 in 2013, according to the BLS. The best-paid 10 percent in the field earned around $72,350, while the lowest-paid made approximately $27,420. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Social Worker (BSW) in the United States is $50,539, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Social Worker (BSW) in the United States are expected to make less than $50,539. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. Requires a bachelor's degree in social work and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks. Works under general supervision.
Here, it’s $65,000 for the BSW and $90,000 for the MSW. Schools, psychiatric hospitals, and mental health clinics represent three areas where NASW reports salaries only for master’s level social workers. Median salaries are $61,000, $60,000, and $50,000, respectively. The National Association of Social Workers (NASW) notes that a Master’s Degree in Social Work is often required for social work positions in health care. Health care social workers most often work in hospitals: anything from pediatrics to oncology.
As a general way to outline Social Work pay, you can view the Bureau of Labor and Statistics website and see that the median national pay for a Social Worker is approximately $42,480. This is assuming that one has a least a Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) degree and no work experience. Social Worker Salaries. The arena of Social Work is one that has a wide variety of pay scales depending on the kind of Social Work one is doing as well as other factors such as level of education, years working in a particular job, the city and state within which you work and a variety of additional factors.