The cause of the Stamp Act was the need for the British Parliament to raise money. They were broke because of the costs of the French and Indian War (aka Queen Anne's War). … Since they felt they were protecting American colonists from the French and their Indian allies, they felt it was just to tax them. The Stamp Act of 1765 was imposed on the colonists by the British.  The stamps affixed to various goods raised revenue for the British.  The colonists were enraged--even pro … tested in the streets. 1  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history
The Stamp Act. When Parliament passed the Stamp Act in March 1765, things changed. It was the first direct tax on the American colonies. Every legal document had to be written on specially stamped paper, showing proof of payment. The Stamp Act of 1765 was not the first attempt to tax the American colonies. Parliament had passed the Sugar Act and Currency Act the previous year. Because tax was collected at ports though, it was easily circumvented. Indirect taxes such as these were also much less visible to the consumer.
The Stamp Act was passed by the British Parliament on March 22, 1765. The new tax was imposed on all American colonists and required them to pay a tax o … n every piece of printed paper they used. Ship's papers, legal documents, licenses, newspapers, other publications, and even playing cards were taxed. The Stamp act was unfair to the colonist because the colonist were being taxed by Parliament without any saying in the taxation. Ergo, No taxation without Representation! th … e colonist just wanted to be represented. Also because it was the Britishs' fault for being in debt because of the french and Indian war.
Stamp Act &raquo. The Repeal of the Stamp Act. The was nullified before it went into effect and was repealed by parliament on March 18, 1766 under the Marquis of Rockingham. In the summer of 1765 King George III fired George Grenville and replaced him with Charles Watson-Wentworth, Marquis of Rockingham. 
Despite parliamentary intentions, colonial reaction was adverse and immediate. The Sugar Act of the previous year had been a tax on trade, in effect an indirect and external tax. But in the Stamp Tax the Americans for the first time were faced with a direct, internal tax.
1 *9 Colonies sent representatives to a Stamp Act Congress in October 1765—they asked Parliament to repeal, or cancel the Stamp Act. * 2 Although some used words to protest, others chose action. * 3 The Sons of Liberty encouraged the colonists to defy the Stamp Act. 1 The Stamp Act and Its Effects *Because of the French and Indian War, Great Britain was deeply in debt. 2  Added to that dept was the coast of sending troops to protect the western lands. 3  The British decided to turn to the colonist to help pay for the troops.
The Stamp Act of 1765. The Stamp Act was passed by the British Parliament on March 22, 1765. The new tax was imposed on all American colonists and required them to pay a tax o … n every piece of printed paper they used. The Stamp Act of 1765 was imposed on the colonists by the British.  The stamps affixed to various goods raised revenue for the British.  The colonists were enraged--even pro … tested in the streets. 1  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history
Confidence votes 75. The Stamp Act resulted in the introduction of colonial boycotts of British imported goods which led to the eventual repealing of the tax by British Parliament. The Stamp act was unfair to the colonist because the colonist were being taxed by Parliament without any saying in the taxation. Ergo, No taxation without Representation! th … e colonist just wanted to be represented. Also because it was the Britishs' fault for being in debt because of the french and Indian war.