It was disestablished in 1991, but when it was existent, its  members included:   Albania, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, East Germany, Hungary, Poland,  Romania, and the Sov … iet Union. The Warsaw Pact was a military  alliance of communist nations in eastern Europe organized in 1955  in answer to NATO. It was an alliance of the Eastern Bloc countries, established in 1955 by the Soviet Union as a counterpart to NATO. It is not war saw, but Warsaw. In response to the birth of the NATO, the Communist countries of Europe signed a treaty of mutual defense and military aid in May 1955.
The Warsaw Pact. The Warsaw Pact is the name commonly given to the treaty between Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the Soviet Union, which was signed in Poland in 1955 and was officially called 'The Treaty of Friendship, Co-operation and Mutual Assistance'. 
Organized in 1955 in answer to NATO, the Warsaw Pact included Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hung … ary, Poland, Romania, and the Soviet Union. It disintegrated in 1991, in the wake of the collapse of communism in eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. It was an alliance of the Eastern Bloc countries, established in 1955 by the Soviet Union as a counterpart to NATO. It is not war saw, but Warsaw. In response to the birth of the NATO, the Communist countries of Europe signed a treaty of mutual defense and military aid in May 1955.
A military alliance of communist nations in eastern Europe. Organized in 1955 in answer to NATO, the Warsaw Pact included Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hung … ary, Poland, Romania, and the Soviet Union. It disintegrated in 1991, in the wake of the collapse of communism in eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. The treaty was signed in Warsaw on 14 May 1955, and the pact was dissolved in Prague on 1 July 1991. The Warsaw Pact no longer exists. It was an alliance of the Eastern Bloc countries, established in 1955 by the Soviet Union as a counterpart to NATO.
West Germany formally joined NATO on May 5, 1955, and the Warsaw Pact was signed less than two weeks later, on May 14. Joining the USSR in the alliance were Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic (East Germany), Hungary, Poland and Romania. Warsaw Pact: The Communist Alliance. The formation of the Warsaw Pact was in some ways a response to the creation of NATO, although it did not occur until six years after the Western alliance came into being. It was more directly inspired by the rearming of West Germany and its admission into NATO in 1955.
It was disestablished in 1991, but when it was existent, its  members included:   Albania, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, East Germany, Hungary, Poland,  Romania, and the Sov … iet Union. The Warsaw Pact was a military  alliance of communist nations in eastern Europe organized in 1955  in answer to NATO. The treaty was signed in Warsaw on 14 May 1955, and the pact was dissolved in Prague on 1 July 1991. The Warsaw Pact no longer exists. It was an alliance of the Eastern Bloc countries, established in 1955 by the Soviet Union as a counterpart to NATO.
The Warsaw Pact, so named because the treaty was signed in Warsaw, included the Soviet Union, Albania, Poland, Romania, Hungary, East Germany, Czechoslovakia, and Bulgaria as members. The Soviet Union and seven of its European satellites sign a treaty establishing the Warsaw Pact, a mutual defense organization that put the Soviets in command of the armed forces of the member states.
The treaty was signed in Warsaw on 14 May 1955, and the pact was dissolved in Prague on 1 July 1991. The Warsaw Pact no longer exists. It was an alliance of the Eastern Bloc countries, established in 1955 by the Soviet Union as a counterpart to NATO. It is not war saw, but Warsaw. In response to the birth of the NATO, the Communist countries of Europe signed a treaty of mutual defense and military aid in May 1955.
The Warsaw Pact is a treaty of mutual defense; the military aid was signed on May 14, 1955 at Warsaw under the Soviet influence of the European countries. Later the Warsaw pact dissolved in 1991. The treaty was given to Bulgaria, East Germany, Albania, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Romania and the Soviet Union in response to West Germany joining NATO. The Warsaw pact was a response to NATO (The North Atlantic Treaty Organization), the treaty made by the Western Allies in 1949.