Students in an alternative licensing program must already have a bachelor's degree. The bachelor's does not necessarily have to be in the subject area that the student will be teaching. In most programs, students practice teaching in the classroom while taking education classes on weekends or at night.
To be a state certified teacher, it takes approximately four years of education beyond high school, which is a bachelors degree. A bachelor's degree in most areas can require between 124 to 128 college credits particular to a specific program of study.
How to Become a Special Education Teacher. Special education teachers in public schools are required to have a bachelor’s degree and a state-issued certification or license. Teachers in private schools also need a bachelor’s degree, but may not be required to have a state license or certification.
It takes a special type of person to be a good teacher. First, need a desire to work with youth, and second, you need an education. And sometimes, you need more than a bachelor’s degree to practice. Let’s take a look at what kind of education you need in order to become a teacher.
Certification Required to Become a Teacher. All states in the U.S. require public school teachers to be certified or licensed through each state's own process. Early childhood, elementary, middle and high school education certification is available.
Although the specific education requirements for becoming a teacher vary by state, all states require that public school teachers have bachelor's degrees. Those who teach high school and college usually need degrees in the disciplines they teach; however, college professors may also need an advanced, graduate degree.
Private school teachers do not have to be licensed but still need a bachelor's degree. A bachelor's degree may not be needed by preschool teachers and vocational education teachers, who need experience in their field rather than a specific degree. Education and training.
Employment of special education teachers is projected to grow 6 percent from 2012 to 2022, slower than the average for all occupations. Employment growth will be driven by continued demand for special education services. Many job opportunities will stem from the need to replace teachers who leave the occupation.
Check with your state's Department of Education (or equivalent department) for specific guidelines. 1  Although it varies, the following will be needed for certification: A four year degree in special education, OR a four year degree in another subject area, with a master's degree in special education.