The power of a number says how many times to use the number in a multiplication. It is written as a small number to the right and above the base number. In this example: 82 = 8 × 8 = 64 (Another name for power is index or exponent). Exponents. 
Faceplate (face plate, face-plate) is a plastic or metal plate, cover, or bezel on the face (front) of a device or surface, such as: 1  Electrical outlet (also referred to as a wall plate, outlet cover, or socket cover). 2  Fender Silverface and Blackface guitar amplifiers. 3  Front panel of early computers. 
A lathe faceplate is a basic workholding accessory for a wood or metal turning lathe. It is a circular metal (usually cast iron) plate which fixes to the end of the lathe spindle. The workpiece is then clamped to the faceplate, typically using t-nuts in slots in the faceplate, or less commonly threaded holes in the faceplate itself. The faceplate was the ancestor of lathe chucks, an arrangement of three or more adjustable 'dogs' bolted to the faceplate providing a primitive chuck arrangement. The smaller plate in the upper photo is specifically a 'dog face' with slots intended to hold a bent tail dog while the work itself was supported on centers
Power Supply. A power supply is a hardware component that supplies power to an electrical device. It receives power from an electrical outlet and converts the current from AC (alternating current) to DC (direct current), which is what the computer requires. It also regulates the voltage to an adequate amount, which allows the computer to run smoothly without overheating.
(1) Any type of metal or plastic plate designed to fit over a device or computer component to enhance the device's functionality or its looks. Cellphones, iPods and even handheld game devices are types consumer electronics that consumers can purchase faceplates for. These faceplates, usually snap on plates, can change the way the device looks, enabling consumers to change the design to better suit their own tastes and personalities. Related Terms. 1  cellphone plate. 2  motherboard plate. 3  user defined function. 4  XML Schema Definition-XSD. 5  DDL. 6  SDE-software defined environment. 7  software-defined servers. 8  MIDL. 9  Software-Defined Everything-SDE. 10  SDS-software-defined storage.
Power. is the rate of doing work or the rate of using energy, which are numerically the same. If you do 100 joules of work in one second (using 100 joules of energy), the power is 100 watts. Work. refers to an activity involving a force and movement in the directon of the force. A force of 20 newtons pushing an object 5 meters in the direction of the force does 100 joules of work.
The power supply an integral part of any computer and must function correctly for the rest of the components to work. You can locate the power supply on a system unit by simply finding the input where the power cord is plugged in. Without opening your computer, this is typically the only part of the power supply you will see. It receives power from an electrical outlet and converts the current from AC (alternating current) to DC (direct current), which is what the computer requires. It also regulates the voltage to an adequate amount, which allows the computer to run smoothly without overheating.
The faceplate may be attached to the lathe in several ways: the two most common are a thread and a precision cone arrangement or threaded studs and a circular recess fitting a flange on the end of the spindle. The faceplate was the ancestor of lathe chucks, an arrangement of three or more adjustable 'dogs' bolted to the faceplate providing a primitive chuck arrangement. The smaller plate in the upper photo is specifically a 'dog face' with slots intended to hold a bent tail dog while the work itself was supported on centers
Since the power supply is the first place an electronic device receives electricity, it is also the most vulnerable to power surges and spikes. Therefore, power supplies are designed to handle fluctuations in electrical current and still provide a regulated or consistent power output. It receives power from an electrical outlet and converts the current from AC (alternating current) to DC (direct current), which is what the computer requires. It also regulates the voltage to an adequate amount, which allows the computer to run smoothly without overheating.