In pregnant women, the most common cause of an adnexal mass is a corpus luteum cyst. In nonpregnant patients, the most common etiologies are functional cysts and leiomyomata. 10. Adnexal masses are characterized on ultrasonography as cystic, solid, or complex. 
Adnexal cyst facts Save this for later. 1. 31. Adnexal cyst is a condition where tumors form in the adnexa region. The adnexa refer to the area adjoining the uterus, which includes the ovaries, fallopian tubes, blood vessels, ligaments, and connective tissue. Pathological changes in the adnexa may originate in the uterus, bowel or retroperitoneum. Development of tumor in the adnexa region is known as adnexa cyst. Causes of Adnexal Cyst. Normally, as a common part of menstrual cycle, the ovaries produce 6 to 7 follicular cysts each year. Those are benign cysts that do not need to be treated since they disappear on their own.
In premenopausal women, adnexal masses include ovarian cysts, ectopic (tubal) pregnancies, benign (noncancerous) or malignant (cancerous) tumors, endometriomas, polycystic ovaries, and tubo-ovarian abscess. In females of reproductive age, adnexal masses can be physiologic or complex masses. One of the most important factors used to determine the clinical suspicion of malignancy of an adnexal mass is the sonographic appearance of the mass. Indications that the mass is at a higher risk of being malignant include: presence of loculations, nodules, papillary structures, septations, size greater than 10 cm.
Adnexal cyst happens to women. Anatomically speaking, Adnexa lie adjacently to the woman’s uterus and it comprises the fallopian tubes and ovaries that are associated with ligaments, connective tissues, blood vessels and the like. According to statistics, the Adnexal cyst can be found in women in variety of ages. 
Adnexal masses are frequently found in both symptomatic and asymptomatic women. In premenopausal women, physiologic follicular cysts and corpus luteum cysts are the most common adnexal masses, but the possibility of ectopic pregnancy must always be considered. After that time, the incidence of germ cell tumors increases; the most common types are benign cystic teratomas (dermoids) and dysgerminomas. Following menarche, adnexal masses are most likely to be follicular and corpus luteum cysts of the ovary. Other nonneoplastic ovarian masses found in this age group include endometriomas, polycystic ovaries and tubo-ovarian abscesses
Re: Adnexal cyst (right ovary). more than likely the adnexal cyst is an ovarian cyst. There's really nothing else in the adnexa that would have a cyst. Don't worry about the ultrasound tech not being able to locate the other ovary. Is a right adnexal cyst the same as an ovarian cyst? Anyhow my doctor found a 3.7cm fluid filled cyst on my right side, ita been there since October, at least this is when it was detected and I know it is still there, I get a weird a pressure sensation in this area and off and on a pinching feeling.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Adnexa is the region in the woman's body which is adjacent to the uterus and comprises of ovaries and fallopian tubes, along with the associated blood vessels, ligaments, connective tissues etc. Adnexal cyst is a cyst of the uterus. Code: 621.8 - Disorder of uterus, NEC Actually, an adnexal cyst is more often an ovarian cyst, so I think 620.2 would make more sense.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An adnexal mass is a lump in tissue of the adnexa of uterus (structures closely related structurally and functionally to the uterus such as the ovaries, fallopian tubes, or any of the surrounding connective tissue). Adnexal masses can be benign or cancerous, and they can be categorized as simple or complex. One of the most important factors used to determine the clinical suspicion of malignancy of an adnexal mass is the sonographic appearance of the mass. Indications that the mass is at a higher risk of being malignant include: presence of loculations, nodules, papillary structures, septations, size greater than 10 cm.