To understand what figurative language is, it is important to start with a working definition of literal language. Literal language refers to a phrase or sentence that is to be taken at face value to mean exactly what it says. 
Literal and figurative language is a distinction within some fields of language analysis, in particular stylistics, rhetoric, and semantics. 1  Literal language uses words directly according to their proper meanings (signified). 2  Figurative (or non-literal) language uses words in figures of speech. It maintains a consistent meaning regardless of the context, with the intended meaning corresponding exactly to the meaning of the individual words. Figurative use of language is the use of words or phrases that implies a non-literal meaning which does make sense or that could [also] be true.
Idioms are commonly used figurative expressions. Idiom is not a distinct figurative language technique. Rather, most idioms are similes, metaphors, hyperbole, or other figurative language techniques. For example, the idiom “I’m so hungry that I could eat a horse,” is actually an example of hyperbole. And the idiom, “dropping like flies,” is actually a simile. Figurative Language. Figurative language is language that one must figure out. The term “figurative” is an antonym of “literal.” In literal language the words convey meaning exactly as defined, whereas in figurative language there is room for interpretation.
Figurative Language: Definitions and Examples Figurative language is used to create a special effect or feeling. It is characterized by figures of speech—language that compares, exaggerates, or means something other than what it first appears to mean. 
Literal usage gives words their proper meanings, in the sense of the meaning they have by themselves, outside any figure of speech. It maintains a consistent meaning regardless of the context, with the intended meaning corresponding exactly to the meaning of the individual words. Figurative use of language is the use of words or phrases that implies a non-literal meaning which does make sense or that could [also] be true.
Figurative Language Examples. The definition of figurative language is when you describe something by comparing it with something else. There are few different ways to use figurative language. See below for more information and examples of figurative language and how to use it. Remove these ads.
Whenever you describe something by comparing it with something else, you are using figurative language. A simile uses the words like or as to compare one object or idea with another to suggest they are alike. The metaphor states a fact or draws a verbal picture by the use of comparison. A simile would say you are like something; a metaphor is more positive-it says you are something. Example: You are what you eat.
Figurative language is the use of words in an unusual or imaginative manner. Often figurative language involves the use of a metaphor, a simile, personification, hyperbole, idiom, a euphemism, and pun. However, as the term figurative language also covers unusual or imaginative word constructions (and not just word meanings), it also includes alliteration, assonance, consonance, and onomatopoeia. When most people think of figurative language, similes and metaphors spring to mind. However, the term figurative language covers a wide range of literary techniques. Here are some examples of figurative language in each of the categories: A metaphor asserts that one thing is something that it literally is not.