Transverse waves are a type of mechanical wave. A mechanical wave is a wave that needs a medium (type of substance such as gas, liquid or solid) to travel through. Transverse … waves move the medium perpendicular to the energy.
Electromagnetic waves travel in a vacuum whereas mechanical waves do not. The mechanical waves need a medium like water, air, or anything for it to travel. The ripples made in a pool of water after a stone is thrown in the middle are an example of mechanical waves. While an electromagnetic wave is called just a disturbance, a mechanical wave is considered a periodic disturbance. Mechanical waves are also called elastic waves as their propagation depends on the elastic properties of the medium through which the waves pass.
Differences between Sound Waves And Electromagnetic Waves. 1  A Sound wave is a longitudinal wave whereas, electromagnetic waves are transverse waves. 2  Sound is a mechanical vibration that passes through a medium such as gas, liquid or solid to become a sound. Waves that does not need any medium or matter to travel through, and travels through space, are called electromagnetic waves. Sound waves. Sound is a mechanical wave that results from the back and forth vibration of the particles of the medium through which the sound wave is moving.
1. Electromagnetic waves travel in a vacuum whereas mechanical waves do not. 2. The ripples made in a pool of water after a stone is thrown in the middle are an example of mechanical wave. Examples of electromagnetic waves include light and radio signals. While an electromagnetic wave is called just a disturbance, a mechanical wave is considered a periodic disturbance. Mechanical waves are also called elastic waves as their propagation depends on the elastic properties of the medium through which the waves pass.
by admin. Mechanical vs Electromagnetic Waves. Mechanical waves end electromagnetic waves are two types of waves discussed in physics. Mechanical waves are waves that are caused by mechanical actions such as vibrations. Electromagnetic waves are waves created by oscillating electric and magnetic fields. • The energy of the mechanical waves depends on the amplitude of the wave, but the energy of an electromagnetic wave depends only on the frequency. • Electromagnetic waves display particle like behavior, but mechanical waves do not display such behavior. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Light and Sound.
Report Abuse. Here's a few differences: Electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light, mechanical waves travel at or below the speed of sound in the medium through which they're traveling. Mechanical waves can only flow through matter, EM waves can travel through free space (and through matter, as well). EM waves are carried by photons, and therefore have some of the properties of particles, as well as the properties of waves.
1. A mechanical wave needs a medium for its propagation. An electromagnetic wave can travel through vacuum and it has the highest speed as it moves through the vacuum. Sound wave is a mechanical wave and light is an electromagnetic wave. 2. A mechanical wave can be both transverse and longitudinal but an electromagnetic wave is a transverse wave. 3. The particles of the medium vibrate, when a mechanical wave passes through it. In an electromagnetic wave the oscillating parameters are the electric and magnetic field
3. Mechanical waves are caused by wave amplitude and not by frequency. Electromagnetic Waves are produced by vibration of the charged particles. 4. While an electromagnetic wave is called just a disturbance, a mechanical wave is considered a periodic disturbance. Mechanical waves are also called elastic waves as their propagation depends on the elastic properties of the medium through which the waves pass.
Electromagnetic Waves. Waves that does not need any medium or matter to travel through, and travels through space, are called electromagnetic waves. Sound waves. Sound is a mechanical wave that results from the back and forth vibration of the particles of the medium through which the sound wave is moving.
Mechanical waves must use matter as a medium, they displace the matter in space. Examples of mechanical waves are sound waves (must go through gas (air) which is matter), ocea … n waves (must go through liquid (water) which is matter, and earthquakes (must go through solid (earth) which is matter. A mechanical wave is a wave that needs a medium (type of substance such as gas, liquid or solid) to travel through. Transverse … waves move the medium perpendicular to the energy.