Summary: Actor-Network Theory is a framework and systematic way to consider the infrastructure surrounding technological achievements. Assigns agency to both human and non-human actors (e.g. artifacts). Originator: Michel Callon (1991) and Bruno Latour (1992); John Law; others. 
Actor-Network Theory in Information Systems Research. Building an information system is a difficult task, partly due to the problem of ascertaining the requirements of the intended users, but also because of the complexity of the large number of human-machine interactions (Banville, 1991). There are several main criticisms of actor-network theory. To begin, there is the criticism by Grint and Woolgar (1997) that it is not always sufficiently clear where the boundaries of a network lie or whose account of a network is to be taken as definitive.
Actor–network theory tries to explain how material–semiotic networks come together to act as a whole; the clusters of actors involved in creating meaning are both material and semiotic. As the term implies, the actor-network is the central concept in ANT. The term network is somewhat problematic in that it, as Latour notes, has a number of unwanted connotations.
Actor–network theory (ANT) is an approach to social theory and research, originating in the field of science studies, which treats objects as part of social networks. As the term implies, the actor-network is the central concept in ANT. The term network is somewhat problematic in that it, as Latour notes, has a number of unwanted connotations.
A small example network with eight vertices and ten edges. In computer and network science, network theory is the study of graphs as a representation of either symmetric relations or, more generally, of asymmetric relations between discrete objects. Network theory is a part of graph theory. It has applications in many disciplines including statistical physics, particle physics, computer science, electrical engineering, biology, economics, operations research, and sociology. 
Actor-network theory, sometimes abbreviated to ANT, is a sociological theory developed by Bruno Latour, Michel Callon and John Law. It is distinguished from other network theories in that an actor-network contains not merely people, but objects and organizations. Walsham, G. (1997) “Actor-Network Theory and IS research: Current status and future prospects,” in A. S. Lee, J. Liebenau, and J. I. DeGross (Eds.) Information systems and qualitative research, London: Chapman and Hall, pp. 466-480. Walsham, G. and Sahay, S. 1999.
Actor-Network theory is a way to understand the phenomena as distributed networks with interrelated nodes. It draws from emergence theory, computing, and other disciplines to understand both the nodes of the system and the lines of communication that allow for information flow between different nodes. Actor Network Theory. In what they have called a network theory [Latour and Callon] have developed a vocabulary that does take the distinction between subjects and objects, the subjective and the objective, into consideration.
Actor Network Theory was first proposed by sociologist Bruno Latour, Actor Network Theory, or ANT, has proven to be one of the most valiant theories of understanding how these different elements work together to produce techno-cultural phenomena. Actor Network Theory. In what they have called a network theory [Latour and Callon] have developed a vocabulary that does take the distinction between subjects and objects, the subjective and the objective, into consideration.
A Dialog on Actor Network Theory with a (Somewhat) Socratic Professor. Actor-network-theory is both a now well known method of social science –especially influential in organisation and information studies-and yet quite misunderstood because of the way it establishes a... On interobjectivity.
This is known as the problem of selection. Actor-network theory claims that any actor, whether person, object (including computer software, hardware, and technical standards), or organization, is equally important to a social network. As such, societal order is an effect caused by an actor network running smoothly. Walsham, G. (1997) “Actor-Network Theory and IS research: Current status and future prospects,” in A. S. Lee, J. Liebenau, and J. I. DeGross (Eds.) Information systems and qualitative research, London: Chapman and Hall, pp. 466-480. Walsham, G. and Sahay, S. 1999.