An entity issued a CAGE code must reapply annually to renew it. CAGE is sometimes expanded as Commercial Activity/Government Entity, Contractor And Government Entity, or other, similar variations. According to the DLIS website, Commercial And Government Entity is the proper term. CAGE was previously known as Federal Supply Code for Manufacturers, or FSCM, which was also the National Supply Code for Manufacturer, or NSCM. 
1 A trust form of registration is available. 2  The trust form of registration is not available for trusts in which the trustee is acting on behalf of a federal, state, or local government. 3  The entity account manager must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the trust with regard to the account. An entity is not permitted to: 1  Have more than one registration per account. 2  Open a minor linked account. 3  Purchase securities as gifts for others or receive gift securities. 4  Name a secondary owner or beneficiary in its registration.
1 The trust form of registration is not available for trusts in which the trustee is acting on behalf of a federal, state, or local government. 2  The entity account manager must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the trust with regard to the account. An entity is not permitted to: 1  Have more than one registration per account. 2  Open a minor linked account. 3  Purchase securities as gifts for others or receive gift securities. 4  Name a secondary owner or beneficiary in its registration.
In the context of governmental accounting and reporting, the control environment has a direct impact on an entity's ability to collect and present accurate financial information. Thus, the internal control environment and related procedures are key areas of concern to an entity's external auditor. 
If your organization is not included in the list, but qualifies as a Governmental Entity pursuant the definition under State Finance Law 139-j (1)(a) and 139-k (1)(a), you will still be subject the provisions of those sections. 
(b) A refusal by the entity to provide a defense is not admissible for any purpose in the action in which the employee is a defendant. (5) Except as provided in Subsection (6), if a governmental entity conducts the defense of an employee, the governmental entity shall pay any judgment based upon the claim. § 63-30-14. Claim for injury -- Approval or denial by governmental entity or insurance carrier within ninety days. Within ninety days of the filing of a claim the governmental entity or its insurance carrier shall act thereon and notify the claimant in writing of its approval or denial.
Federal, State and Local Governments facilitates cooperation through partnerships with federal, state, and local government agencies for the purpose of meeting their federal tax responsibilities, with a focus on customer service and fairness to all. Tax Information for Indian Tribal Governments. The Office of Governmental Liaison (GL) is responsible for developing and implementing cooperative tax administration initiatives between the IRS and federal, state, and local governments. Each state has an assigned GL to serve as the primary liaison for the GL program.
A government entity that is designated to file for another governmental unit is referred to as a Designated Government Entity (DGE). If a DGE is designated to file returns on behalf of more than one ALE member, the DGE must file a separate Form 1094-C for each ALE member for which the DGE is reporting. 
According to 15 USCS § 6602 (3), [Title 15. Commerce and Trade; Chapter 92. Year 2000 Computer Date Change] the term government entity means “an agency, instrumentality, or other entity of Federal, State, or local government (including multijurisdictional agencies, instrumentalities, and entities).”. 