1 If outside temperature is 50, the room temperature could be maintain ed with boiler water temperature perhaps as low as 70 or 80. 2  Then as outside temperature drops to zero the boiler water will increase to say 130 depending on the type of floor system. It almost goes without saying, it takes much less energy to heat and maintain water at 100 degrees than it does to maintain water at 170.And there is an additional Plus. That of improved comfort.
1 Radiant heat temperature settings at the boiler. 2  Radiant heat temperature settings in the tubing. 3  Maximum temperature for radiant-heated floor surfaces. 4  Energy efficiencies of radiant floor heating. Under wood floors nailed right to the subfloor and tubing below, radiant heat temperatures are typically at the middle of our 85-135 °F. temperature range, or about 105-115 °F. The radiant heated wood floor shown in our photo (left) was installed in a New York home
Homeowners with radiant-floor heating are likely to be comfortable at lower air temperatures because of the elevated mean radiant temperature in such homes, the lack of significant airflow (as occurs with convective hydronic heating and forced-air heating systems), and the delivery of heat at floor level. These houses were visited during daylight hours on weekends, and thermostat settings were recorded. Thermostat settings in the houses with radiant-floor heating averaged 68.7°F (20.4°C), while settings in the control houses averaged only 67.6°F (19.8°C).
Increased boiler life. By operating a boiler at a lower temperature, its life can be extended. Radiant-floor heating systems typically use water temperatures of 85–140°F (30–60°C), compared with baseboard hydronic systems that typically operate at 130–160°F (55–70°C). These houses were visited during daylight hours on weekends, and thermostat settings were recorded. Thermostat settings in the houses with radiant-floor heating averaged 68.7°F (20.4°C), while settings in the control houses averaged only 67.6°F (19.8°C).
1 RADIANT HEAT TEMPERATURES-CONTENTS: What is the optimal temperature for radiant heat piping. 2  Radiant heat temperature settings under tile, hardwood, carpet, laminate floor choices. Under wood floors nailed right to the subfloor and tubing below, radiant heat temperatures are typically at the middle of our 85-135 °F. temperature range, or about 105-115 °F. The radiant heated wood floor shown in our photo (left) was installed in a New York home
Radiant-floor heating turns a floor into a large-area, low-temperature radiator. In most modern radiant-floor heating systems, warm water circulates through plastic tubing either embedded in a floor slab or attached to the underside of subflooring. These houses were visited during daylight hours on weekends, and thermostat settings were recorded. Thermostat settings in the houses with radiant-floor heating averaged 68.7°F (20.4°C), while settings in the control houses averaged only 67.6°F (19.8°C).
These thermostats turn on the radiant floor when the air is below the temperature setting, and shut off when it's above the temperature setting. The result is the floor tends to shoot past the air heating temperature when heating and then does not turn back on until the floor temperature is cold. This is due to forced air heating systems only heating the air within the room. Since the floor surface is much more massive than the air, the result is the floor never reaches the temperature set by the forced air heating thermostat.
A radiant heat system manufacturer, Radiant Floor Company, opines that 120 to 135 deg F is ideal and most sources we have found discuss typical radiant heat operating temperatures in the 115-135 degree range. Under wood floors nailed right to the subfloor and tubing below, radiant heat temperatures are typically at the middle of our 85-135 °F. temperature range, or about 105-115 °F. The radiant heated wood floor shown in our photo (left) was installed in a New York hom
All surfaces within the room are heated to the same temperature as the floor. This includes the walls, furniture, and of course, you, the occupant of the building. In order to heat the floor, the radiant floor heating system uses warm water running through plastic tubing that is installed in the floor. This is due to forced air heating systems only heating the air within the room. Since the floor surface is much more massive than the air, the result is the floor never reaches the temperature set by the forced air heating thermostat.