The costs for tiling although generally priced per square metre do vary not only by region and location but also depending on experience and size of firm. A solo tiler may have a relatively small turn over and not need to charge you VAT for example. The major contributor to cost will be how large the area to be tiled is. Both tiles and tiling costs are usually quoted in a price per square metre and this is the relative cost that needs to be considered.
1 The per metre rate for laying ceramic tiles can vary between $90 and $150 or even more. 2  Quarry tiles also start at around $90 per square metre, but top out at about $125. 3  Vinyl tiles are the easiest and quickest to lay. 4  Expect quotes between $40 and $100 per square metre. 1 This is why a bathroom can cost twice as much per square metre as a living room. 2  Smaller areas require more tile cutting in relation to the entire job than larger areas, so may cost more per square metre because of the extra labour.
Installation of cork floor tiles should be approximately £25 per square metre. These are extremely hard wearing, durable and easy to keep clean. Prices, depending on design, range from £20 for stone tiles to £35 for top quality polished porcelain ones. The cost to lay ceramic tiles is approximately £30 per square metre. Costs are from £5 to £10 typically per square metre, and installation costs are around £15 to £16 per square metre. This type of flooring is made up of three components; a hardwood upper layer, a middle layer for strength and a bottom balancing layer.
Each price is for his labour, adhesive and grout. No tiles are included. Lets assume a 8’ x 6’ bathroom, with one window reveal, walls ready for tiling, with the bath etc in situ, to be tiled in 8” (200mm) square tiling. Job 1. Tile the bathroom, floor to ceiling, apply grout, then silicone around the bath.
1 Quarry tiles also start at around $90 per square metre, but top out at about $125. 2  Vinyl tiles are the easiest and quickest to lay. 3  Expect quotes between $40 and $100 per square metre. 1 This is why a bathroom can cost twice as much per square metre as a living room. 2  Smaller areas require more tile cutting in relation to the entire job than larger areas, so may cost more per square metre because of the extra labour.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: there is more to tiling over the floor boards ie you need to plywood the floor 1st. If the preparation was ready labour only charge I would charge £20 per metre complete that's going back the following day to grout Im based in the north east of england. 
The cost of tiling varies depending on a number of factors. However, the average cost of tiling per square metre is $40. This is just an average figure that may vary depending on other factors. While this remains to be the average figure, there are people paying $100+ per square metre. Home » Uncategorized » How much does Tiling cost per Square Metre. Tiling is just part of building, just like in any other renovation job. There is the element of professionalism whenever a tiling company comes to do the work for you.
The cost of tiling varies depending on a number of different factors. Type of Tiles or Stone you are planning to use – Price differs if you are using Ceramic, Porcelain, Terracotta, Blue-Stone, Marble or Granite. Home » Uncategorized » How much does Tiling cost per Square Metre. Tiling is just part of building, just like in any other renovation job. There is the element of professionalism whenever a tiling company comes to do the work for you.