Point mutation. Definition. noun, plural: point mutations. A mutation in DNA or RNA molecule involving a change of only one nucleotide base. Supplement. This type of mutation occurring in noncoding sequences often does not result in an altered amino acid sequence during translation. If a mutation in the promoter sequence of a gene occurs, the effect may be apparent since the expression of the gene may cause changes in the amino acid sequence, as well as the structure and function of the protein product. Point mutations may be classified based on functionality: 1  nonsense mutation. 2  missense mutation.
1 Silent Mutation: Although a change in the DNA sequence occurs, this type of mutation does not change the protein that is to be produced. 2  This is because multiple genetic codons can encode for the same amino acid. 3  Amino acids are coded for by three nucleotide sets called codons. Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions.
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements. 1 Missense mutations or nonsynonymous mutations are types of point mutations where a single nucleotide is changed to cause substitution of a different amino acid. 2  This in turn can render the resulting protein nonfunctional.
Definition. A Mutation occurs when a DNA gene is damaged or changed in such a way as to alter the genetic message carried by that gene. A Mutagen is an agent of substance that can bring about a permanent alteration to the physical composition of a DNA gene such that the genetic message is changed.
A missense mutation is when the change of a single base pair causes the substitution of a different amino acid in the resulting protein. This amino acid substitution may have no effect, or it may render the protein nonfunctional. 
A mutation is a change in the base sequence of DNA that can affect the structure and function of proteins when they occur within a gene. Mutations can be spontaneously caused by copying errors during DNA replication or induced by exposure to external elements such as chemical mutagens, radiation or viruses. Point Mutations. Point mutations are changes to one base in the DNA code and may involve either: 1  The substitution of a base (e.g. 2  ATG becomes ACG). 3  The insertion of a base (e.g. 4  ATG becomes ATCG). 5  The deletion of a base (e.g. 6  ATG becomes AG).
A point mutation, or single base modification, is a type of mutation that causes a single nucleotide base change, insertion, or deletion of the genetic material, DNA or RNA. The term frameshift mutation indicates the addition or deletion of a base pair. A point mutant is an individual that is affected by a point mutation. Repeat induced point mutations are recurring point mutations, discussed below.
Biology Glossary search by EverythingBio.com. A mutation involving a long segment of DNA. These mutations can involve deletions, insertions, or inversions of sections of DNA. In some cases, deleted sections may attach to other chromosomes, disrupting both the chromosomes that loses the DNA and the one that gains it. Also referred to as a chromosomal rearrangement.
Common errors that occur during cell division can result in point mutations and frame shift mutations. Mutations during cell division can lead to replication errors which can result in the deletion of genes, translocation of portions of chromosomes, missing chromosomes, and extra copies of chromosomes. Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions.