This may be a subtle distinction, but it is a very important one. We do not say that a person is cancer, or is heart disease, or is an illness. A person has an illness. Likewise, we should not say that a person is a depressive, but that a person has clinical depression. Diagnostic criteria for mental disorders are essentially descriptions of symptoms that fall into one of four categories. In major depressive disorder for example, affective or mood symptoms include depressed mood and feelings of worthlessness or guilt.
Depression can present itself in varying forms and degrees. Here is a list of all of the DSM IV categories of depression and a thorough definition of each. The DSM IV is the professional and diagnostic guide/criteria for all mental health disorders. The person has a diminished interest or pleasure in all activities most of the day, nearly everyday. 3. There is significant weight loss, when not dieting or weight gain or a marked increase or decrease in appetite. In children this can be seen as missing their expected weight gains.
The person is depressed most of their day, and nearly everyday. In children this may present as irritability. 2. The person has a diminished interest or pleasure in all activities most of the day, nearly everyday. 3. There is significant weight loss, when not dieting or weight gain or a marked increase or decrease in appetite. In children this can be seen as missing their expected weight gains.
In clinical practice, depression is often resistant to standard antidepressant medication, and a large percentage of patients respond just as well to placebo. The DSM broad diagnosis of MDD does not encourage a search for subtypes of depression that may require specific treatment. Recommended related news. Visit our Depression category page for the latest news on this subject. Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: MLA. Edwards, Mark. A New Classification Of Different Types Of Depression.. Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 4 May. 2010.
It's a condition you can treat with medicine, talking to a therapist, or changes to your lifestyle. There are many different types of depression. Events in your life cause some, and chemical changes in your brain cause others. Whatever the cause, your first step is to let your doctor know how you're feeling. She may refer you to a mental health specialist to help figure out the type of depression you have. Your doctor might diagnose you with major depression if you have five or more of these symptoms on most days for 2 weeks or longer. At least one of the symptoms must be a depressed mood or loss of interest in activities. Talk therapy can help.
Section 504 Option Versus Eligibility and Classification under the IDEA. Once your child has been diagnosed with a bipolar disorder and perhaps a co-morbid condition such as ADHD or OCD and/or learning disabilities of any kind, your child can become eligible for accommodations in the academic environment. 
Best Answer: ADHD (now ADD and ADHD are the same) and Tourette's are considered to be neurological disorders, but technically are not learning disorders. However, they may qualify for special education services under a different category other than a learning disorder. 
A new classification of depressive subtypes of depression has been proposed in the current issue of Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics. Lichtenberg and Belmaker argue that a simple diagnosis is no longer sufficient to guide treatment. Recommended related news. Visit our Depression category page for the latest news on this subject. Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: MLA. Edwards, Mark. A New Classification Of Different Types Of Depression.. Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 4 May. 2010.
Depression is defined according to Goodman and Fuller as a morbid sadness, dejection, or a sense of melancholy distinguished from grief. Depression falls under the broader category of Major Depressive Disorders which are characterized by a single isolated episode lasting weeks to months. Major depressive disorders are viewed as an adjustment disorder which occurs due to external circumstances such as stress, trauma or loss.