So the energy that is created from a catabolic reaction is what is used by the body to drive all anabolic reactions. The specific ingredient used to store this energy is ATP or adenosine tri-phosphate. When the third phosphate found in ATP is used it then leaves the stored energy as ADP or adenosine diphosphate. Any anabolic reaction that takes place in any living creature means the build-up or growth of the structure of the organism and is called Anabolism. Any anabolic reaction will refer to the specific chemical reactions that take place to combine simpler substances to form more complex substances
Catabolic reactions usually release energy that is used to drive chemical reactions. Anabolism refers to chemical reactions in which simpler substances are combined to form more complex molecules. Anabolic reactions usually require energy. Anabolic reactions build new molecules and/or store energy. The energy of catabolic reactions is used to drive anabolic reactions. The energy for chemical reactions is stored in ATP. Often when I ask students What is ATP the answer they give is Energy.
Best Answer: Anabolic reactions involve making big molecules out of smaller ones, and they consume energy. A common anabolic reaction is the translation of RNA to make a protein: amino acids are strung together to form a larger molecule. Catabolic reactions break down large molecules into smaller ones and release energy, such as glycolysis. 
An anabolic reaction is one that makes complex molecules from smaller one, examples of this being protein synthesis, photosynthesis etc. This is known as constructive metabolism. A catabolic reaction is one that breaks larger molecules into smaller ones with the release of energy. The most obvious example of this is respiration, as you are breaking a large molecule (glucose) into smaller molecules and releasing energy as you do it.
These reactions require energy. One way of categorizing metabolic processes, whether at the cellular, organ or organism level, is as anabolic, or as  catabolic  which is the opposite. Anabolism is powered by catabolism, where large molecules are broken down into smaller parts and then used up in respiration. Many anabolic processes are powered by the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP).
Best Answer: Anabolic reactions store energy, an example would be photosynthesis where energy is stored into high energy bonds and saved for later. A catabolic reaction breaks down those high energy bonds to release energy to power a cell, an example would be cellular respiration. 
Catabolic and anabolic reactions are metabolic processes. Both the capture and use of energy by organisms involves a series of thousands of reactions (metabolism). A cat … abolic reaction is one that breaks down large molecules to produce energy; an example is digestion. An anabolic reaction is one that involves creating large molecules out of smaller molecules; an example is when your body makes fat out of extra nutrients you eat.
Catabolic and anabolic reactions are metabolic processes. Both the capture and use of energy by organisms involves a series of thousands of reactions (metabolism). A cat … abolic reaction is one that breaks down large molecules to produce energy; an example is digestion. This is known as constructive metabolism. A catabolic reaction is one that breaks larger molecules into smaller ones with the release of energy. The most obvious example of this is respiration, as you are breaking a large molecule (glucose) into smaller molecules and releasing energy as you do it.
The best example of this catabolic reaction is cellular respiration where glucose is broken down in order to create energy as a by-product of the catabolic process. The process of breathing requires energy to perform and that is where a catabolic reaction creates energy. Any anabolic reaction that takes place in any living creature means the build-up or growth of the structure of the organism and is called Anabolism. Any anabolic reaction will refer to the specific chemical reactions that take place to combine simpler substances to form more complex substances