I would like To make a new house with GFRG panels 1200sqfeet +3 floor in KUMBAKONAM.Tamilnadu. Where do I get trained professionals. Than we are looking forward To marketing your prodects. Are we need your conseltancy about your prodects. sir, I am really impressed the use of GFRG panels. I would like to use the same for construction of my house. Please let me know the availability, size, price, distributor and the experienced installers and their contact details.
Qualities. The panels are manufactured in sizes of 12 * 13 metres, weigh 1.6 metric tonnes and are 5 inches thick. (Concrete panels of the same sizes would probably weigh 10 metric tonnes and would be 9 inches thick.) The less thick walls give the rooms a wider carpet area. Price. The price charged for the panels is 1000 rupees per square metre. A 12× 3 metre sized panel costs 36000 rupees. 10 such panels would be more than enough for the roof and walls of a house with a plinth area of 1000 square feet. You can imagine how much it would cost to build a similar house in the normal manner. Using panels would minimize your expense to mere 4 Lakhs
Engineers at the Indian Institute Of Technology, Madras were super busy for about a decade to bring your 2 BHK dreams to reality. The new construction method developed by IIT-M engineers will bring down the costs drastically down-so down that a 2 BHK, 800 Sq.ft house will cost you only Rs. 10 lakh. We can already see smile on your face; unless you're into construction business.
Glass Fiber Reinforced Gypsum (GFRG) Panels manufactured by FACT, normally comes in 12 meter in length and 3 meter in height. The Cost of GFRG sheet is 1000 INR per square meter. sir, I am really impressed the use of GFRG panels. I would like to use the same for construction of my house. Please let me know the availability, size, price, distributor and the experienced installers and their contact details.
I am realy impressed for the use of GFRG panels for wall. I would like to use the same for construction of my house’s one part of first floor. Please let me know the availability, size, price, distributor and the experienced installers contact details. Please revert. sir, I am really impressed the use of GFRG panels. I would like to use the same for construction of my house. Please let me know the availability, size, price, distributor and the experienced installers and their contact details.
1. By producing Solar power and using it in your home or industry, you will save 100% Electricity cost depending on your load requirement. 2. The PV panels are IEC standard proven technology and are capable of working efficiency upto 25 years. 
The goodwill we have attained in the market is owing to our offered GFRC Panel. Our offered panels are highly resistant to abrasion and dust & facilitate a flawless performance. In order to manufacture these products as per the set quality standards, we use superlative quality factor inputs and advanced technology. These products can be availed at most acceptable price range to our clients. 
Flame Resistant. GFRG is a mineral and will not burn. In addition, the nature of gypsum acts like a thermal regulator when exposed to flame. GFRG not only will not burn, but it also protects the materials behind it from the heat of the flame for up to two hours. Easy Installation. GFRG is relatively light in weight compared to traditional stone or plaster ornaments. Before long, North American manufacturers began promoting and selling products produced with GFRG. By late 1978, GFRG jobs were being sold and installed in North America. In the early 1980's, Stromberg developed many of the techniques and technology used in GFRG.