We have a fairly manicured yard with an island of grass surrounded by plants and the chickens are trampling the flowers and bushes and scratching all the ground cover and mulch into the grass and in general making a huge mess-not to mention the poop! Poop everywhere!We have a fairly small yard, only 3 chickens-and 2 young children. So, I'm grump some-my biggest problem is the chickens rush the door of the coop when I open it to change water, collect eggs, etc. So It's nearly impossible to NOT let them out if I go in there.I also feel guilty if I keep them pinned up all day.
Overview. Free-range chickens eat bugs and sometimes grass. If you reseed your lawn, you'll find out that they also eat grass seed. You can try several methods to stop your chickens from eating the seed before it has a chance to grow. Alternatives range from raking to mulching to fencing off areas. If one way does not work well in your situation, try another
so, I have chickens, which I like.. they lay me eggs, and I do let them out and into my garden at times to forage, but I don't let them run in my neighbors yard... I do not let my chickens free range in the yard any more for that reason. They have a huge area to range, the people who used to live here used to raise Emus and thus I have quite a large fenced area. Long story short, you have been kind and have given fair warning.
Chickens will destroy your garden if you let them. Last year was my first year with chickens and they did a lot of damage. I had to replant almost all of my crops and actually had a very poor year yield wise as a result. I had free range chickens last summer, and they did quite a bit of damage to my flower beds and to my garden. This year, we built a tall (10 foot) fence around their coop, they have plenty of room to range and have shade as well.
Best Answer: Oh for pete's sake...they do not rip out a lawn or ruin it. I have about 20 chickens and enjoy having them in the garden. 
I know this may bug you-but I'm bummed my chickens are destroying our yard. We have a nice coop for them with plenty of room, but I like to let them out in the afternoon to free range. Poop everywhere! We have a fairly small yard, only 3 chickens-and 2 young children. So, I'm grump some-my biggest problem is the chickens rush the door of the coop when I open it to change water, collect eggs, etc.
Our chicken pasture is destroyed near the coop. Anywhere that the chickens are for a good portion of the day, especially when the ground is soft, will be destroyed. When I let them out of the pasture, they don't do much to the lawn, but that's because they have the whole 1/4 acre garden to destroy. Chickens are plant destroyers. Lavender and Black Ameraucanas and Black and Blue Copper Marans. I have 10 chickens that forage daily on 3/4 acre. They dig only in and around the existing flower and garden beds. They scratch and peck in the grass, but not enough in any one area to damage the grass.
Hi, my neighbor has chickens we don't. His chickens fit right through the fence and come into our yard destroying the flowerbeds on a daily basis. My neighbor told me to just shoot them. We do not have dogs, we have 2 cats, however they do not even go after the baby chicks...only the birds : (I have tried the spices in the flower beds & that didn't work...I really get tired of chasing them out of my yard constantly and they just have a hay day when nobody is home.