A charcoal canister is part of the evaporative emission control (EVAP) system in many modern automobiles, which is designed to keep gasoline from evaporating into the atmosphere.
Canister filters come in different shapes and sizes, and they can be used for both saltwater and freshwater aquariums. The great thing about these filters is that they are very flexible; you can use different media types to create a custom filtration system for your aquarium.
Canister filters draw water up a lift tube and out of the aquarium into an external filter chamber or canister where the water is pushed through a series of filter media to clean the aquarium water.
When the term canister is used in reference to a vacuum cleaner, the often cylindrical container is what houses the vacuum's motor, filter and dirt collection container. A suction hose is attached to the canister, as are small wheels, which allow you to pull the canister behind you as you vacuum your home.
Canister filters are very efficient filters if used and maintained correctly. A good canister filter gives you the advantage of selecting the type of filtration appropriate for your tank by customizing the filter media, rather than being stuck with the manufacturers pre-made media cartridges.
Confidence votes 2.0K. An evaporative canister is part of the evaporative system that is within the emission system. Hydrocarbons are a form of pollution that gasoline releases as it evaporates or after is is burned. While fuel is stored inside the tank, fumes build up and are retained inside this canister.
Remember, your canister filter is something that you do not want to go cheap on. Canister filters work by channeling water out of your aquarium and through their body; this water is pushed through the filter media inside of the canister, and this effectively removes impurities from the water.
Remember, with a canister filter, as with any other filter, you need to replace any carbon in the filter frequently, as carbon that has become saturated with waste can begin to release toxins. Canister filters are especially good for medium to large tanks, as they can filter a large volume of water efficiently.
Canister filters are aquarium filters that remove the water from the fish tank through an intake tube, sieve, or valve, run it through filter media in a pressurized canister, and then pump the filtered aquarium water back into the fish tank via spill way or spray bar.