I dont think I have anything, I just want to get checked up 10 Points to the... show more I am going to go have a swab test done on monday, I live in Halifax, Nova Scotia (If that matters) How long should I expect to wait to get the results back? how do they contact you? does the swab test cover all STD's? Your provider will usually contact you within 2 weeks with your results and generally 1 week if you have an abnormal pap smear or you test positive for an STD.
Report Abuse. pap smears take about a week to get back. as for the labs, most of them are done within 3 days. how long it takes the doctor to tell you the results are another story though ;). Source(s): i work in a lab. jay D · 8 years ago. 
What tests can I have done? The available tests include: HIV,syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia, Hepatitis A, B and C, herpes and trichomoniasis. However, not everyone needs every test. The testing recommended will depend on your sexual behaviors, history of previous STIs or current STI and whether you have symptoms or not. 
1 10-Test Panel-We are the only STD testing service that tests for all common sexually transmitted diseases. 2  Our 10-Test Panel includes HIV 1 & 2, syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia, hepatitis A, hepatitis B & hepatitis C, and herpes 1 & 2. 3  Complete Confidentiality-Your confidentiality is very important to us. 
A STD infection may become transmissible because of the delay that often occurs between getting infected and getting the test done. It usually takes about 48 hours to get the results of a STD test. Some tests like the one for syphilis takes about seven to 10 days. HIV test results can be obtained within three days. Chlamydia and gonorrhea test results take about a week. 
How long does it take to get STD test results? We get all STD testing results back to you in 24 to 72 hours. How much does STD testing cost? Testing fees are based on laboratory fees that fluctuate regularly also testing fees depend on which test or group of tests you need to have run. Viral STD's cannot be cured, but can be managed with treatment/medication. How long does the process take? Your visit to our patient service center will involve a urine sample and/or blood draw and will take approximately 10 to 15 minutes.
Most everything else involves a swab. Your provider will usually contact you within 2 weeks with your results and generally 1 week if you have an abnormal pap smear or you test positive for an STD. You can be contacted by phone or by postal mail-it all depends on the clinic and how they do business
7. Get help from a doctor now ›. Depends: Gonnorhea or chlamydia can be urine tested after 2-3 days, syphilis or hpv when sore or lesion develops, can be weeks, blood tests take time because there have to be organism or antibodies develop, i.E hiv / aids or syphilis. Early tests can give both false positive & false negative results
Get help from a doctor now ›. Variable: Gonnorhea or chlamydia can be urine tested after 2-3 days, syphilis or hpv when sore or lesion develops, can be weeks, blood tests take time because there have to be organism or antibodies develop, i.E hiv / aids or syphilis. Early tests can give both false positive & false negative results. Get help from a doctor now ›. Depends