(October 2010). Human taxonomy is the classification of the species Homo sapiens (Latin : knowing man), or the modern hominin, humans. Homo, the human genus, includes the past genetic tree of humanity, with Neanderthals, Denisovans, and other extinct species of hominin. As recorded in the Hebrew Bible, ancient Hebrews classified humans as a kind of living soul (nephesh, roughly breather). Living things were said to beget their own kind, a group broader than the scientific species. Humans were said to comprise a single kind.
Report Abuse. Hominidae is the family, which means there's a sister genus in there besides ours. We're Homo, which means there's a sister species in there besides us. We're Homo sapiens, which means Intelligent Human.. The other Homo besides us, at 200 thousand or so to 28 thousand or so, in Eurasia, was Homo neanderthalensis (better known simply as Neanderthals). I need to know why humans belong to the Family (Hominidae), the Genus (Homo), and the Species (Homo Sapiens)...
A new report argues that chimpanzees are so closely related to humans that they should be included in our branch of the tree of life. Chimpanzees and other apes have historically been separated from humans in classification schemes, with humans deemed the only living members of the hominid family of species. 
The scientific calassification for humans is as follows: Kingdom = Animalia (Animals). Class = Mammalia (Mammals). Order = Piramate (Monkeys.... bad!!) Familly = Homonidae (Humans). Genus = Homo Species = sapien. 
In short, humans belong to the primate group. Kingdom: | Animalia / Phylum: | Chordata / Class: | Mammalia / Order: | Primates / Family: | Hominidae / Subfamily: | Homin … inae / Tribe: | Hominini / Genus: | Homo / Species: | H. sapiens. 
The billions of human beings living today all belong to one species: Homo sapiens. As in all species, there is variation among individual human beings, from size and shape to skin tone and eye color. But we are much more alike than we are different. We are, in fact, remarkably similar. 
Belongingness is the human emotional need to be an accepted member of a group. Whether it is family, friends, co-workers, or a sports team, humans have an inherent desire to belong and be an important part of something greater than themselves. This implies a relationship that is greater than simple acquaintance or familiarity. 
The classification levels become more specific towards the bottom. Many organisms belong to the same kingdom, fewer belong to the same phylum, and so on, with species being the most specific classification. A species is one group of genetically distinct, interbreeding organisms. For most plants and animals, just listing the family, genus or species is enough to let biologists know what the other levels should be. The most common way to list the taxonomic name of an organism is to list the genus and species; this is known as binomial nomenclature, meaning a two-name system.