Posted on. (Answer #1). A man vs. self conflict will occur when a character is struggling with themselves on the inside. This type of conflict can occur with other conflicts as well. Anytime a character struggles with a moral dilemma or decision we see this at work.an versus self can aslo be a conflict for a character who is choosing between action for the good of Mankind versus action for selfish good. A character might have a moment in which they have an opportunity, for example, to give thier life for the good of humanity.
It means there is a character but another character is in  disagreement or standing as an obstacle to the original character's  goals. Other kinds of conflict might be chara … cter vs environment or  character vs self.+ 4 others found this useful. Character itself, is who you are. You are what your character is. It's what makes you different from other people. You have to make sure that you keep touch with your ch … aracter because if you act like what your not, then you lose touch with yourself, and in turn, could become something you hate.
It means there is a character but another character is in  disagreement or standing as an obstacle to the original character's  goals. Other kinds of conflict might be chara … cter vs environment or  character vs self. Character itself, is who you are. You are what your character is. It's what makes you different from other people. You have to make sure that you keep touch with your ch … aracter because if you act like what your not, then you lose touch with yourself, and in turn, could become something you hate.
Also called man versus (vs.) ____________. 1  Character s struggle against society. 2  A struggle against society occurs when a character is at odds with a particular social force or condition produced by society, such as poverty, political revolution, a social convention, or set of values.
Batman vs. the Joker. One of the most common literary conflicts is that of Character vs. Character. This is often referred to as Man vs. Man.. In this most basic of conflicts, one person, or like being, is in conflict with another person or like being. In the example in our photo, we have the hero, Batman, in conflict with the villain, The Joker.
Best Answer: Man versus anything refers to conflict in fiction. For example, if the story has a man vs. man conflict, the main character has some issue with another character--maybe one character stole money from another character, or maybe one character is trying to kill another character.
(Answer #1). A man vs. self conflict will occur when a character is struggling with themselves on the inside. This type of conflict can occur with other conflicts as well. Anytime a character struggles with a moral dilemma or decision we see this at work. Man versus self can aslo be a conflict for a character who is choosing between action for the good of Mankind versus action for selfish good. A character might have a moment in which they have an opportunity, for example, to give thier life for the good of humanity.
Character vs. character conflict is characters having conflict with  each other, like having a disagreement or a competition, or one  character standing as an obstacle to th … e original character's  goals. Other kinds of conflict might be character vs environment or  character vs self. 2 people found this useful. Character itself, is who you are. You are what your character is. It's what makes you different from other people. You have to make sure that you keep touch with your ch … aracter because if you act like what your not, then you lose touch with yourself, and in turn, could become something you hate.
Character vs. character conflict is characters having conflict with  each other, like having a disagreement or one character standing as  an obstacle to the original charact … er's goals. Other kinds of  conflict might be character vs environment or character vs self.1 person found this useful. Character itself, is who you are. You are what your character is. It's what makes you different from other people. You have to make sure that you keep touch with your ch … aracter because if you act like what your not, then you lose touch with yourself, and in turn, could become something you hate.