Europe and Asia The nation of Turkey spans two continents; the small area north of the Straits of the Bosporus is in Europe, but the larger area south of the Bosporus is Asia. In Russia. A. Yes B. No C. Partly The answer is actually A, because Eastern Russia and Eastern Turkey are in the same continent which is Asia, and Western Russia and a highly populated p … ortion of Western Turkey (including much of Istanbul) are both in Europe.
Turkey is a Eurasian country; it bridges the continents of Europe and Asia. In Russia. A. Yes B. No C. Partly The answer is actually A, because Eastern Russia and Eastern Turkey are in the same continent which is Asia, and Western Russia and a highly populated p … ortion of Western Turkey (including much of Istanbul) are both in Europe.
Turkey lie on Asia and Europe. (It is an Eurasian country) Turkey has land both on Asia and Europe. Asian part is bigger. In Russia. A. Yes B. No C. Partly The answer is actually A, because Eastern Russia and Eastern Turkey are in the same continent which is Asia, and Western Russia and a highly populated p … ortion of Western Turkey (including much of Istanbul) are both in Europe.
Istanbul, the largest city in Turkey and the fifth-largest city in the world by population, is considered European, yet it occupies two different continents. One part of Istanbul lies in Europe and the other part lies in Asia. 
Thrace is separated from Anatolia (the Asian portion of Turkey) by the Bosphorus (Turkish: İstanbul Boğazı), the Sea of Marmara (Turkish: Marmara Denizi), and the Dardanelles (Turkish: Çanakkale çanakkale); boğazı which collectively form the Strategic Turkish straits that link The Aegean sea with The Black. sea Turkey is situated in Anatolia (97%) and the Balkans (3%), bordering the Black Sea, between Bulgaria and Georgia, and bordering the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, between Greece and Syria.
Report Abuse. Turkey is in Asia and Europe. The only part that is in Europe is on the other side of the bridge in Istanbul which is Turkeys largest city on the most northwest part of Turkey. Most people consider Turkey to be in the middle east but since the middle east isn't a continent you can safely say that it is Asia specifically West Asia. Turkey is in Europe and Asia. Bosphorus (Bogaz), seperates Istanbul as west and east. West side land of Istanbul acounts in Europe and East side of country accounts for Asia.
Turkey straddles the Bosporus Straits and is a Eurasian country; it bridges the continents of Europe and Asia. It can be found stretching across both western Asia's Anatolian peninsula and south-eastern Europe's Balkan region. The vast majority of the country is in Asia, with only a very small part being in Europe. In Russia. A. Yes B. No C. Partly The answer is actually A, because Eastern Russia and Eastern Turkey are in the same continent which is Asia, and Western Russia and a highly populated p … ortion of Western Turkey (including much of Istanbul) are both
Istanbul is located in Turkey. It is the only city that spans two  continents (Europe and Asia). Istanbul is one of the greatest  cities in the world and as of 2007 has a po … pulation in excess of 12  million.    Instanbul is located in southeast Europe, although Turkey (the  country in which it is located) is mainly in Asia.    Istanbul includes part of the Bosphorus strait in its urban area.  The Bosphorus divides Europe from Asia and by crossing the  Bosphorus bridge you can cross from one continent to another. The largest and most known would of course be Istanbul, Turkey located in Europe and Asia. The others include Atyrau, … Kazakhstan (Europe/Asia), Orenburg, Russia (Europe/Asia), and Suez, Egypt (Africa/Asia).