Image. Kids dancing in shorts to songs from Elvis Presley's era — it's a finger-snapping time warp at Centennial High School, where the spring musical is Bye Bye Birdie.. On the risers, the dancers are treading hard, and drama teacher/director Suzanne Aldridge tells them to turn it down a notch. Senior Christian Khachaturian has a lead part — Albert Peterson, the manager of the character modeled after Elvis. When Conrad Birdie is drafted into the Army, his secretary, Rosie, comes up with a last-ditch publicity stunt that brings them to the small town where Bye Bye Birdie is set.
The story was inspired by the phenomenon of popular singer Elvis Presley being drafted into the United States Army in 1957. Jesse Pearson plays the role of teen idol Conrad Birdie, whose character name is a word play on another pop singer of the era, Conway Twitty. Bye Bye Birdie was the 13th highest grossing film of 1963, grossing $13,129,412 domestically, earning $6 million in North American rentals. The film was, rather surprisingly, given a Royal Charity Premiere when released in the UK on 7 November 1963, at the Odeon Marble Arch in the presence of H.R.H.
Bishop Gorman students draw inspiration from Elvis for ‘Bye Bye Birdie’. Student cast members rehearse for the upcoming play Bye Bye Birdie at the Bishop Gorman High School, 5959 S. Hualapai Way. Bye Bye Birdie is scheduled to debut Feb. 28. (Erik Verduzco/View). Bishop Gorman students draw inspiration from Elvis for ‘Bye Bye Birdie’. Sophomore Connor Wright, backstage crew member, paints a door for the upcoming play Bye Bye Birdie at the Bishop Gorman High School, Feb. 4. (Erik Verduzco/View). Bye Bye Birdie.
Bishop Gorman students draw inspiration from Elvis for ‘Bye Bye Birdie’. Elena Ferrante-Martin, director of the upcoming play Bye Bye Birdie at Bishop Gorman High School, instructs student cast members during a rehearsal, Feb. 4. (Erik Verduzco/View). Bishop Gorman students draw inspiration from Elvis for ‘Bye Bye Birdie’. Sophomore Connor Wright, backstage crew member, paints a door for the upcoming play Bye Bye Birdie at the Bishop Gorman High School, Feb. 4. (Erik Verduzco/View). Bye Bye Birdie.
Based on the great pop culture uproar when Elvis Presley got drafted, Bye Bye Birdie is about a contest thought up by production assistant Janet Leigh to the Ed Sullivan Show to help her struggling songwriter boyfriend Dick Van Dyke. Author: tjonasgreen. When 'Bye Bye Birdie' was the hit of the '59-'60 season on Broadway, it was as much for its satirical edge as for the talent on stage or the innovative direction by Gower Champion.
Storyline. Conrad Birdie is the biggest rock & roll star of the 60's ever to be drafted. Aspiring chemist and song writer Albert is convinced he can make his fortune and marry his girlfriend Rosie if he gets Conrad on the Ed Sullivan show to kiss a high school girl goodbye. See more ». There is no The End credit or cast list at the end of the film. Ann-Margret simply sings an on-screen reprise of the song Bye Bye Birdie at the end, and then says  'Bye, now!.
Happily, there are films like Bye Bye, Birdie, made during the apex of the 1953-63 period, to remind those of us who came of age during that era what we've lost, and to show those who weren't there what it was like. Would that we all had a Sweetapple, Ohio, to go back to again. See more ». There is no The End credit or cast list at the end of the film. Ann-Margret simply sings an on-screen reprise of the song Bye Bye Birdie at the end, and then says  'Bye, now!.
Did the filmmakers ever consider using the King himself? —Jon C., Ozark, Mo. A: Indeed they did. It was Elvis’s induction into the army in 1958 that inspired the plot of the 1960 Broadway hit and 1963 film, in which the drafting of rocker Conrad Birdie causes mass hysteria among his teenage fans. Executives approached Presley to star in the film and he considered it, but his manager nixed the idea because it would have been self-parody. Instead, Jesse Pearson, who played Birdie in the national tour, reprised the role onscreen.
The film is credited with making Ann-Margret a superstar during the mid-1960s, leading to her appearing with the real Elvis in Viva Las Vegas (1964). Bye Bye Birdie opens with Ann-Margret singing a title song written especially for the movie. The soundtrack was released by RCA Victor in 1964. In 2006, the film was ranked number 38 on Entertainment Weekly 's list of the 50 Best High School Movies. Bye Bye Birdie was the 13th highest grossing film of 1963, grossing $13,129,412 domestically, earning $6 million in North American rentals. The film was, rather surprisingly, given a Royal Charity Premiere when released in the UK on 7 November 1963, at the Odeon Marble Arch in the presence of H.R.H.