Definition of OSTEOGENESIS IMPERFECTA. : a hereditary disease marked especially by extreme brittleness of bones and caused by defective or insufficient collagen. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, imperfect osteogenesis.
osteogenesis imperfecta, a genetic disorder involving defective development of the connective tissue. It is inherited as an autosomal-dominant trait and is characterized by abnormally brittle and fragile bones that are easily fractured by the slightest trauma. observations In its most severe form, the disease may be apparent at birth, when it is known as osteogenesis imperfecta type II. The newborn has multiple fractures that have occurred in utero and is usually severely deformed because of imperfect formation and mineralization of bone.
osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). Definitions: 1. a group of connective tissue disorders of type I collagen, characterized by bone fragility, fractures on trivial trauma, skeletal deformity, blue sclerae, ligament laxity, and hearing loss.
Noun. 1. osteogenesis imperfecta-autosomal dominant disorder of connective tissue characterized by brittle bones that fracture easily. autosomal dominant disease, autosomal dominant disorder-a disease caused by a dominant mutant gene on an autosome. Translations. n osteogenesis osteogénesis. imperfecta 
Medical Definition of OSTEOGENESIS IMPERFECTA. : a hereditary disease caused by defective or deficient collagen production and marked by extreme brittleness of the long bones and a bluish color of the whites of the eyes—called also fragilitas ossium, osteopsathyrosis. : a hereditary disease marked especially by extreme brittleness of bones and caused by defective or insufficient collagen. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, imperfect osteogenesis.
DefinitionOsteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a genetic disorder characterized by bones that break easily, often from little or no apparent cause. A classification system of different types of OI is commonly used to help describe how severely a person with OI is affected. 
Osteogenesis imperfecta: A group of inherited connective tissue diseases, all of which result from mutations that affect collagen in connective tissue in the body, and all of which result in fragile bones. The best known types of osteogenesis imperfecta are types I and II. Also known as brittle bone disease. 
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a group of genetic diseases of collagen in which the bones are formed improperly, making them fragile and prone to breaking. observations In its most severe form, the disease may be apparent at birth, when it is known as osteogenesis imperfecta type II. The newborn has multiple fractures that have occurred in utero and is usually severely deformed because of imperfect formation and mineralization of bone.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), also known as brittle bone disease or Lobstein syndrome, is a congenital bone disorder characterized by brittle bones that are prone to fracture. People with OI are born with defective connective tissue, or without the ability to make it, usually because of a deficiency of type I collagen. Eight types of OI can be distinguished. Most cases are caused by mutations in the COL1A1 and COL1A2 genes. Diagnosis of OI is based on the clinical features and may be confirmed by collagen or DNA testing. There is no cure for OI.
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a group of genetic disorders that mainly affect the bones. The term osteogenesis imperfecta means imperfect bone formation. People with this condition have bones that break easily, often from mild trauma or with no apparent cause. Most cases of osteogenesis imperfecta have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Many people with type I or type IV osteogenesis imperfecta inherit a mutation from a parent who has the disorder.