Certainly not the FBI or IRS. The IRS offers this advice : If you receive an unsolicited e-mail or phone call purporting to be from the IRS, take the following steps: Do not open any attachments to the e-mail, in case they contain malicious code that will infect your computer. 
Go to the IRS home page and search on the letter, notice, or form number. Fraudsters often modify legitimate IRS letters. You can also find information at Understanding Your Notice or Letter or by searching Forms and Pubs. 1  If it is legitimate, you'll find instructions on how to respond or complete the form. 1 If you don't find information on our website or the instructions are different from what you were told to do in the letter, notice or form, call 1-800-829-1040 to determine if it’s legitimate. 2  If it's not legitimate, report the incident to TIGTA and to us at phishing@irs.gov.
IRS Scam Phone Calls. The latest scam that criminals are using involving the IRS starts with a phone call that you receive from someone who claims to be an IRS agent, and that you owe taxes. Here are some warning signs and red flags that this is a scam: 1  The IRS would never call you first on the phone. 2  They would send you a letter first. 3  The fake agent uses a very common name, like John Smith, Bob Jones, etc. and provides a (fake) badge number.
IRS Phone Scam – call transcript Page 1 of 17 This is a transcript of a call between a Pindrop Security employee, identifying himself as R. Williams, and a phone fraudster identifying himself as S. Parker. 
If you get a phone call from someone claiming to be from the IRS, here’s what you should do: 1  If you know you owe taxes or you think you might owe taxes, call the IRS at 1.800.829.1040. 2  The IRS employees at that line can help you with a payment issue – if there really is such an issue. Other characteristics of this scam include: 1  Scammers use fake names and IRS badge numbers. 2  They generally use common names and surnames to identify themselves. 3  Scammers may be able to recite the last four digits of a victim’s Social Security Number.
1 You receive a call from an agent someone claiming to be an IRS agent. 2  The caller knows some personal information about you, such as your name, address, phone number and the last 4 digits of your ssn (social security number). Here are some warning signs and red flags that this is a scam: 1  The IRS would never call you first on the phone. 2  They would send you a letter first. 3  The fake agent uses a very common name, like John Smith, Bob Jones, etc. and provides a (fake) badge number.
You receive a phone call from someone claiming to be from the IRS but you suspect they are not an IRS employee 1  ... Record the employee's name, badge number, call back number and caller ID if available. 2  Call 1-800-366-4484 to determine if the caller is an IRS employee with a legitimate need to contact you. 1 If you don't find information on our website or the instructions are different from what you were told to do in the letter, notice or form, call 1-800-829-1040 to determine if it’s legitimate. 2  If it's not legitimate, report the incident to TIGTA and to us at phishing@irs.gov.
The IRS encourages taxpayers to be vigilant against phone and email scams that use the IRS as a lure. The IRS does not initiate contact with taxpayers by email to request personal or financial information. This includes any type of electronic communication, such as text messages and social media channels. Other characteristics of this scam include: 1  Scammers use fake names and IRS badge numbers. 2  They generally use common names and surnames to identify themselves. 3  Scammers may be able to recite the last four digits of a victim’s Social Security Number.
If you get a phone call from someone claiming to be from the IRS, here s what you should do: 1  If you know you owe taxes or you think you might owe taxes, call the IRS at 1.800.829.1040. Here are some warning signs and red flags that this is a scam: 1  The IRS would never call you first on the phone. 2  They would send you a letter first. 3  The fake agent uses a very common name, like John Smith, Bob Jones, etc. and provides a (fake) badge number.
1 The IRS would never call you first on the phone. 2  They would send you a letter first. 3  The fake agent uses a very common name, like John Smith, Bob Jones, etc. and provides a (fake) badge number. 4  The fake agent knows the last 4 digits of your social security number, but NOTthe entire number. Here are some warning signs and red flags that this is a scam: 1 