Eat healthy the week prior to your swim meet. Now is not the time to incorporate brand new foods into your diet. Do eat a lot of fruits, vegetables, and other nutritious foods. The night before a swim meet eat a dinner that is loaded with complex carbohydrates. Some good meal choices are pasta or chili with cornbread. Carbohydrates help to fuel muscles. Eat a meal 2-3 hours before a swim meet. About an hour before your event, have a small snack. Do not eat a large amount in the last hour! If your first swimming event is early in the morning, have a light breakfast 2-3 hours before and a small snack 1 hour before.
5. Go to bed as early as possible beginning days before your swim meet, especially if you are getting up early. If you go to bed at midnight every night for a week and get 5 hours of sleep every night for a week, getting 10 hours of sleep the night before is not going to help you.
Eat a good dinner the night before you swim. Eat plenty of carbohydrates and proteins but don't eat something to heavy or completely out of the norm. Stay away from acidic foods (including tomato and tomato sauce) for they will upset your stomach and cause cramps.
When you eat is as important as what you eat before a swim meet. Eating breakfast is important, preferably four hours before you swim in a race. Slow-cooked oatmeal cereals with low fat yogurt or eggs with whole grain toast provide some protein along with complex carbohydrates to help fuel your energy needs.
Staying hydrated Water will be your best friend during a swim meet. The other most important factor is to stay hydrated. Make sure you have plenty of water before, during and after your meet-- this is vital if you want to succeed in your swimming.
The night before a meet, it’s important to have a meal rich in protein and carbohydrates, like pasta, rice and beans. The morning of the meet, eat a light breakfast high in carbohydrates, like a whole grain bagel or whole grain toast and fruit two to three hours before the event.