P lants have adaptations to help them survive (live and grow) in different areas. Adaptations are special features that allow a plant or animal to live in a particular place or habitat. These adaptations might make it very difficult for the plant to survive in a different place. 
Though this biome is characterized by coniferous forests, some deciduous trees are also found in certain regions. While it is difficult for most of the plant species to survive in the taiga biome, those which are found in the region are well-adapted to these climatic conditions. The taiga or the boreal forest is the largest among the terrestrial biomes in the world, and stretches over North America and Eurasia. The taiga biome amounts to around 30% of the world's forest cover.
Taiga: Animals The cold climate of the taiga prevents many animals from living there year-round. Some of the large animals found in the taiga include moose, deer, and bears. Examples of smaller animals that live in the taiga are bobcats, squirrels, chipmunks, ermine, and moles. Photo 2000-www.arttoday.com. The taiga is home to many insects and birds such as the bald eagle, chickadee, woodpeckers, and warblers. 
Some Adaptations. Many animals that remain in the taiga throughout the year have developed physical adaptations that help them survive. Survival in the taiga winter means keeping warm, which most permanent resident animals do with long, thick fur. Winter survival also requires finding food and avoiding predators. 
You can find the Balsam Fir in northeastern North America, from Virginia to Newfoundland and northwest towards Yukon and Labrador. The balsam Fir can be found in many biomes including the Taiga biome. The Balsam Fir is a small to medium sized native evergreen tree. It can grow to be 40 to 80 feet tall. 
Taiga: Plants Because the climate of the taiga is very cold, there is not a large variety of plant life. The most common type of tree found in the taiga is the conifer--trees that have cones. Four kinds of conifers are common in the taiga. Three of the common conifers are evergreens; spruce, fir, and pine. The fourth common conifer is the tamarack, or larch, a deciduous tree. Under certain conditions, broadleaf trees, such as birch and aspen, are able to survive the harsh climate of the taiga.
Due to these factors, plants in the taiga have different adaptations than the plants we find around Santa Barbara. The. ANIMALS: The cold climate of the taiga makes it a difficult place for many animals to live. Many have thick coats of fur to insulate against the cold, and some hibernate. The total yearly precipitation in the taiga biome is 10 - 30 inches (25 - 75 cm). PLANTS: Compared to other biomes, the taiga has less diversity in plant life. The most common type of tree found in the taiga is the conifer, or cone-bearing tree. Conifers, also known as evergreens, include pines, spruces and firs. There may also occasionally be deciduous species present, such as oak, birch, willow, or alder, in a particularly wet or disturbed area
When it comes to the plants and trees in the taiga biome, you may identify two patterns of vegetation. The southern regions are dense with trees, and are characterized by a closed canopy. Even shrubs and flowering plants are found in clearings. Some types of berries are also seen in the southern regions. The taiga or the boreal forest is the largest among the terrestrial biomes in the world, and stretches over North America and Eurasia. The taiga biome amounts to around 30% of the world's forest cover.
Evergreen species in the taiga (spruce, fir, and pine) have a number of adaptations specifically for survival in harsh taiga winters, although larch, the most cold-tolerant of all trees, is deciduous. Coniferous trees are the dominant plants of the taiga biome. A very few species in four main genera are found: the evergreen spruce, fir and pine, and the deciduous larch. In North America, one or two species of fir and one or two species of spruce are dominant.