chronic inflammation prolonged and persistent inflammation marked chiefly by new connective tissue formation; it may be a continuation of an acute form or a prolonged low-grade form. exudative inflammation one in which the prominent feature is an exudate. the protective or destructive response of body tissues to irritation or injury. Inflammation may be acute or chronic. Its cardinal signs are redness (rubor), heat (calor), swelling (tumor), and pain (dolor), often accompanied by loss of function.
Pus is a thick, whitish to yellowish material composed primarily of dead cells that generally forms as a by-product of bacterial infections. The inflammatory cells that participate in the body’s immune response at the site of an infection eventually degrade and die, creating the substance known as pus. One of the most common types of bacteria that cause pus formation is Staphylococcus aureus, although any bacterial infection may produce pus. When pus forms within enclosed spaces in the tissues, it causes abscesses. When it forms on the skin surface, it causes lumps known as pustules or pimples. Pus can also form when infections develop in internal organs, such as the bones, brain, lungs, and gastrointestinal tract.
Inflammation can be classified as either acute or chronic. Acute inflammation is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli and is achieved by the increased movement of plasma and leukocytes (especially granulocytes) from the blood into the injured tissues. 1 Purulent inflammation: Inflammation resulting in large amount of pus, which consists of neutrophils, dead cells, and fluid. 2  Infection by pyogenic bacteria such as staphylococci is characteristic of this kind of inflammation. 3  Large, localised collections of pus enclosed by surrounding tissues are called abscesses.
chronic inflammation prolonged and persistent inflammation marked chiefly by new connective tissue formation; it may be a continuation of an acute form or a prolonged low-grade form. exudative inflammation one in which the prominent feature is an exudate. suppurative inflammation one marked by pus formation. toxic inflammation one due to a poison, e.g., a bacterial product. traumatic inflammation one that follows a wound or injury. ulcerative inflammation that in which necrosis on or near the surface leads to loss of tissue and creation of a local defect (ulcer).
Knowledge center. Pus is a protein-rich fluid called liquor puris, usually whitish-yellow, yellow, or yellow brown in color. Pus consists of a buildup of dead leukocytes (white blood cells) from the body's immune system in response to infection. It accumulates at the site of inflammation. The whitish-yellow, yellow, yellow-brown, and even greenish color of pus is the result of an accumulation of dead neutrophils. Pus can sometimes be green because some white blood cells produce a green antibacterial protein called myeloperoxidase.
Pus is caused by the breakdown of neutrophils, which are inflammatory cells produced by the body to fight infection. Typically, pus forms during the course of a bacterial infection. Although neutrophils initially engulf and kill bacteria, they themselves are eventually broken down and become a major constituent of pus. 
Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process. Inflammation is not a synonym for infection. 1 Purulent inflammation: Inflammation resulting in large amount of pus, which consists of neutrophils, dead cells, and fluid. 2  Infection by pyogenic bacteria such as staphylococci is characteristic of this kind of inflammation. 3  Large, localised collections of pus enclosed by surrounding tissues are called abscesses.
An infection that leads to the production of pus is called a purulent infection. When pus forms within enclosed spaces in the tissues, it causes abscesses. When it forms on the skin surface, it causes lumps known as pustules or pimples. Pus can also form when infections develop in internal organs, such as the bones, brain, lungs, and gastrointestinal tract.