Abstract. The superior mesenteric artery extends anteriorly and inferiorly off the aorta at the level of the first lumbar vertebrae. The duodenal sweep and left renal vein are located in the aorto-mesenteric angle space. A decrease from the normal angle may compress these two structures. 
(January 2009). In human anatomy, the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) arises from the anterior surface of the abdominal aorta, just inferior to the origin of the celiac trunk, and supplies the intestine from the lower part of the duodenum through two-thirds of the transverse colon, as well as the pancreas. Contents. It is usually 1cm lower than the celiac trunk. It initially travels in an anterior/inferior direction, passing behind/under the neck of the pancreas and the splenic vein. Located under this portion of the superior mesenteric artery, between it and the aorta, are the following: 1  left renal vein-travels between the left kidney and the inferior vena cava (can be compressed between the SMA and the abdominal aorta at this location, leading to nutcracker syndrome)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Superior mesenteric artery (SMA) syndrome is a rare, potentially life-threatening gastro-vascular disorder characterized by a compression of the third and final portion of the duodenum by the abdominal aorta (AA) and the overlying superior mesenteric artery. The syndrome is typically caused by an angle of 6°-25° between the AA and the SMA, in comparison to the normal range of 38°-56°, due to a lack of retroperitoneal and visceral fat (mesenteric fat). In addition, the aortomesenteric distance is 2-8 millimeters, as opposed to the typical 10-20.
Superior mesenteric artery. The superior mesenteric artery is a major blood vessel in the digestive system. This artery branches off the abdominal aorta and supplies oxygenated blood to the pancreas and the lower parts of the intestine. This includes the lower duodenum, as well as transverse colon. A similarly named superior mesenteric vein exists, which transports oxygen-depleted blood away from the digestive system. There are two known pathological conditions associated with the superior mesenteric artery: nutcracker syndrome and superior mesenteric artery syndrome.
Superior Mesenteric Artery Syndrome is a very rare syndrome characterized by compression of the third portion of the duodenum against the aorta. 
Mesenteric artery ischemia is a condition that restricts blood flow to your intestines. There are three main arteries that supply blood to your small and large intestines. These are called the mesenteric arteries. Narrowing or blockage of the arteries reduces the amount of blood that travels to your digestive tract. When your intestines do not receive enough oxygen-rich blood, it can lead to serious health problems—including cell death and permanent damage.
Background. Superior mesenteric artery (SMA) syndrome is an uncommon but well recognized clinical entity characterized by compression of the third, or transverse, portion of the duodenum between the aorta and the superior mesenteric artery. This results in chronic, intermittent, or acute complete or partial duodenal obstruction. Sex. More females are affected by superior mesenteric artery syndrome. In one large series of 75 patients with superior mesenteric artery syndrome, two thirds of the cases involved women, with an average age of 41 years; one third of cases involved men, with an average age of 38 years.