In some cases, the expert testimony of a respected forensic psychologist might be the last piece of the puzzle when trying to convict a criminal. The field of forensic psychology is also a very important part of crime prevention as well. Professionals in this field might be called upon to participate in the rehabilitation of criminals, for instance, to help ensure that they become law abiding citizens. Forensic psychology can sometimes be a very important piece of the puzzle when trying to solve a criminal case. Professionals in this field are often able to help narrow down the suspect list or at least provide a motive for a crime.
1 You can not serve a client in the role of a forensic psychologist if you have treated a patient clinically, as that is a conflict of interest. 2  Professionals with bachelor’s degrees can work in the field of psychology, but cannot legally practice as a licensed psychologist. Warnings. 1  You can not serve a client in the role of a forensic psychologist if you have treated a patient clinically, as that is a conflict of interest. 2  Professionals with bachelor’s degrees can work in the field of psychology, but cannot legally practice as a licensed psychologist.
All states require some form of certification or licensure to practice as a forensic psychologist. Exact requirements vary from state to state but in general candidates have to successfully pass a licensure examination. Courses of study in forensic psychology can be found either online or on college and university campuses, both public and private. This search tool is built to help aspiring psychologists locate a program that can suit their needs.
How to Become a Forensic Psychologist. Interest in the field of forensic psychology has been growing with the increase of numerous TV shows and movies that showcase this area. Forensic psychologists work in civil, criminal and family courts. Warnings. 1  You can not serve a client in the role of a forensic psychologist if you have treated a patient clinically, as that is a conflict of interest. 2  Professionals with bachelor’s degrees can work in the field of psychology, but cannot legally practice as a licensed psychologist.
The American Board of Professional Psychology (ABPP) classifies forensic psychology as a recognized specialty and offers certification examinations. To become a forensic psychologist, it is beneficial to have a minor in law. Some forensic psychologists have doctorates in both psychology and law. Because the application of forensic psychology deals specifically with how psychology works with the law, most jobs require varying levels of legal studies. 
Put your psychology experience to work in the legal field. Forensic psychology is where the practices of psychology and law meet. It is also a profession that has received a lot of attention over the past several years, due to the tremendous popularity of procedural-based movies and television series. Courses of study in forensic psychology can be found either online or on college and university campuses, both public and private. This search tool is built to help aspiring psychologists locate a program that can suit their needs.
Skills, interests and qualities. To become a forensic psychologist you will need to have: 1  a genuine desire to help offenders. 2  a keen interest in the cause and effect of criminal behaviour. 3  resilience, with the ability to deal with the risk of physical or verbal assault. 4  patience, empathy, honesty and integrity. To become a forensic psychologist you would have a desire to want to help and support offenders. Excellent communication and listening skills will also help you work with a broad range of people including other professionals.
Research is often a big part of a forensic psychology career. Forensic psychologists will often study and analyze research from other professionals, as well as conduct their own research. They might study criminals and their crimes, for instance, to determine what traits certain types of criminals have. Forensic psychology can sometimes be a very important piece of the puzzle when trying to solve a criminal case. Professionals in this field are often able to help narrow down the suspect list or at least provide a motive for a crime.
The BLS does not publish salary data specifically on forensic psychologists, however, the closest related profession-a traditional psychologist-was reported to be $86,510 in 2010. PayScale.com lists the salary range of forensic psychologists as $35,333 to $103,576. Forensic psychology can sometimes be a very important piece of the puzzle when trying to solve a criminal case. Professionals in this field are often able to help narrow down the suspect list or at least provide a motive for a crime.