Sage Leaf. Sage cleansing can clear one’s body aura and home from negativity. This method of cleansing with sage is also called smudging. It is important to use dried sage clippings in a ceramic or glass bowl that is heat resistant such as Pyrex. It is also good to have sand on hand to put out the smoldering sage afterward. 
Sage is a symbol of long life and wisdom. This article is a stub. Please help Symbolism Wiki by expanding it. 
The noun SAGE has 3 senses: 1. a mentor in spiritual and philosophical topics who is renowned for profound wisdom. 2. aromatic fresh or dried grey-green leaves used widely as seasoning for meats and fowl and game etc. 3. any of various plants of the genus Salvia; a cosmopolitan herb. Familiarity information: SAGE used as a noun is uncommon. • SAGE (adjective). The adjective SAGE has 2 senses: 1. having wisdom that comes with age and experience. 2. of the grey-green color of sage leaves. Familiarity information: SAGE used as an adjective is rare.
Sage (person) – The sage is an archetypal form full of the symbols of wisdom, age, and good advice. To see the sage in a dream is indicative that there will soon be a source of wisdom in your life that you should pay attention to. A sage is often represented by a hooded figure or an old, bearded man.
The word sage has come to mean something like “wise one.” Our mental image of a sage is that of a classical bearded thinker or philosopher, such as Plato and Aristotle. The Wise Fool. The word sage has come to mean something like “wise one.” Our mental image of a sage is that of a classical bearded thinker or philosopher, such as Plato and Aristotle. Ironically, however, those people did not see themselves as sages, but as sage-wannabes.
Sage (herb) – The herb Sage is a symbol of spiritual purity and innocence. The burning of sage is a Native American ritual called smudging. Native Americans smudge to rid themselves of evil spirits and to purify their lives before battle, vision quests or hunts. Dreaming of sage is an intense and sacred thing. To see the sage in a dream is indicative that there will soon be a source of wisdom in your life that you should pay attention to. A sage is often represented by a hooded figure or an old, bearded man.
1. Sage Smudging Your Room. When want to clear out the energy of a particular room, using a sage smudging stick is easy and effective. To begin smudging open the door and windows in the selected room. Take the sage smudging stick and light it up and allow the sage to burn until it smokes. Hold the stick in your dominate hand and start at the beginning of the room and rotate the smudging stick clockwise and continue throughout the room. 3. Sage Smudging for Aromatherapy. I find that the sage is great for aromatherapy scent. Any place in the house that is susceptible for smell like the trash can or a litter box works great. I place the sage stick a few times around my cat Sophia’s cat box and this leaves a refreshed scent.
Some herbal remedies, whether used in tincture, tea or capsule form, holds an incredible and potent medicinal quality. In addition, there are other plants that, when burnt, the smoldering smoke offers various remedies for many physical, emotional, spiritual, or mental imbalances-one such herb is SAGE. Sage is held sacred by many Native American Indians, because of it s effective purifying energies. It heals by bringing the patient back into balance and cleanses the body and mind of negative spirits and impurities. Today, sage is often used in smudging ceremonies for those who are seeking balance and pure thought, spirit and body. An updated smudging ceremony can be performed by nearly anyone who wishes to relieve their worries, open their mind, clear negative thoughts and feelings, harmonize the body and de-stress the spirit.
Symbolism of Herbs. Many herbs have symbolic meaning that goes back centuries, even millenia. For example, the ancient Romans offered wreaths of bay leaves as a symbol of triumph and peace. Earlier, bay was thought to be sacred for the Greeks and to be a protector from disease, witchcraft and lightning. 
Sage is a traditional choice for burning and smudging for the Native Americans because of all of the herbs, it is one of the best for cleansing. Medicine People used this herb on people who were ill, to bring them back from the negative place where their body and soul laid. Today, sage is often used in smudging ceremonies for those who are seeking balance and pure thought, spirit and body. An updated smudging ceremony can be performed by nearly anyone who wishes to relieve their worries, open their mind, clear negative thoughts and feelings, harmonize the body and de-stress the spirit.