Rainfall Amount. Lake Garda receives most of its rainfall during April, with an average of 3.62 inches, and November, with an average of 4.21 inches. July has the lowest average amount of rainfall with only 2.68 inches. Winds speeds on Lake Garda are divided into two categories: peler/vento and ora.. The peler/vento is the morning wind from the north that begins at 7 a.m. and lasts only until 9 a.m. Wind speeds vary between 6.9 mph to 28 mph, especially in the northern sections.
Water Temperature. The water temperatures of Lake Garda vary depending on the season and range from 43 to 50 degrees during winter and between 63 and 80 degrees during the peak summer months. The average water temperatures are usually warmer toward the southern end of the lake thanks to the more shallow depths. Winds speeds on Lake Garda are divided into two categories: peler/vento and ora.. The peler/vento is the morning wind from the north that begins at 7 a.m. and lasts only until 9 a.m. Wind speeds vary between 6.9 mph to 28 mph, especially in the northern sections.
Climate. The water of the Lake is colder than the air in summer and warmer in winter. This strongly contributes to mitigating the summer heat and harsh winter, thus rendering the Garda climate incredibly mild and temperate. The Garda area boasts all the characteristics of a pre-alpine zero-thermal oasis. It is a sub-Mediterranean climate, so mild and different from the other lakes that it can be defined as the Benaco climate. The average winter temperature varies between 12 and 18 C and in summer between 24 and 30 C.
Weather Overview for Lake Garda. If you’ve ever wondered what Italy’s largest lake is, then wonder no longer: it's Lake Garda. This immense body of water lies in the Lombardy region of northern Italy, 100km from Milan and 130 km from Venice. Sitting at the foot of the Alps in an enviable location and picturesque setting, Lake Garda is a year round favourite holiday destination.
Check out the Lake Garda Weather Chart & Forecast. The Lake Garda weather is one of it's many attractions. Especially from May to October, the weather is generally warm and pleasant with lots of sun! Sometimes in July and August particularly the temperatures can get very high and you will be glad that there are many spots to enjoy the lakeside breeze. 
... more interesting sites. The climate of Lake Garda (Italy). Because the weather along Lake Garda is similar to that along the Italian coasts and the French Riviera the climate is often wrongly referred to as a Mediterranean climate. 
Lake Garda climate. Water Temperature. Now, keep in mind that the waters of Lake Garda come from melting snow and ice from the mountains, so the water can be quite cold during the winter and spring months. It starts to warm up in May though, enough to enjoy a swim.
Lake Garda: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Lake Garda with an average temperature of 29°C (84°F) and the coldest is January at 6°C (43°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in July. The wettest month is September with an average of 86mm of rain. Loading weather data.
There is no doubt that Garda’s climate is mild. Yearly average temperatures are between 12°-13°, in fact snow and fog are rare north of Garda: the lake only froze once in history (1709). Relative humidity is of 66%; average water temperature is of about 21°, in depth (30 metres) it is about 13° (in September). 