Full Definition of THORAX. 1. : the part of the mammalian body between the neck and the abdomen; also: its cavity in which the heart and lungs lie. 2. : the middle of the three chief divisions of the body of an insect; also: the corresponding part of a crustacean or an arachnid.
The part of the human body between the neck and the diaphragm, partially encased by the ribs and containing the heart and lungs; the chest. 2. A part in other vertebrates that corresponds to the human thorax.
In the human body, the region of the thorax between the neck and diaphragm in the front of the body is called the chest. The corresponding area in an animal can also be referred to as the chest. The shape of the chest does not correspond to that part of the thoracic skeleton that encloses the heart and lungs.
The chest, also known as the thorax, consists of 25 bones in the human body. These bones are the sternum and the ribs. The chest is a region located between the head and the abdomen. It houses and protects many internal organs, such as the lungs and heart.
thorax. the part of the body between the neck and abdomen; the chest. It is separated from the abdomen by the diaphragm. The walls of the thorax are formed by pairs of ribs, attached to the sides of the spine and curving toward the sternum.
The thorax or chest (Greek: θώραξ (from the Greek θώραξ thorax breastplate, cuirass, corslet), Latin: thorax is a part of the anatomy of humans and various other animals located between the neck and the abdomen. The thorax includes the thoracic cavity and the thoracic wall.
2. thorax-the part of the human torso between the neck and the diaphragm or the corresponding part in other vertebrates. chest, pectus. craniate, vertebrate-animals having a bony or cartilaginous skeleton with a segmented spinal column and a large brain enclosed in a skull or cranium.
1. The part of the human body between the neck and the diaphragm, partially encased by the ribs and containing the heart and lungs; the chest. 2. A part in other vertebrates that corresponds to the human thorax. 3.