Hydropower is the most common as well as the cheapest source of renewable energy in the United States of America these days. As reported by EIA about hydropower energy utilization in USA, since 2008, it has been used in approximately 70% of all electricity that is generated from renewable energy source. Nice article, it's a great information regarding to hydro-power energy. Hydro-power is useful to generating electricity from flowing water. Electricity is must essential to our daily life. Here well described the process of transforming hydro-power energy into electricity.
Hydropower or water power (from the Greek: ύδρω, water) is power derived from the energy of falling water or fast running water, which may be harnessed for useful purposes. A trompe, which produces compressed air from falling water, is sometimes used to power other machinery at a distance. In the late 19th century, hydropower became a source for generating electricity. Cragside in Northumberland was the first house powered by hydroelectricity in 1878 and the first commercial hydroelectric power plant was built at Niagara Falls in 1879
Hydropower. Hydropower is the energy captured from moving water. It is often used to make electricity, usually at dams. A renewable energy source, hydropower produced 6% of the United States’ total electricity and 67% of generation from renewables in 2008. Today, hydropower usually refers to dams that have been built to generate electricity. Hydroelectric power accounts for about 19% of the world’s electricity, according to the US Geological Survey. Hydroelectric energy is produced by the force of falling water.
10. Hydropower is one of the oldest power sources on the planet, generating power when flowing water spins a wheel or turbine. It was used by farmers as far back as ancient Greece for mechanical tasks like grinding grain. Hydropower is also a renewable energy source and produces no air pollution or toxic byproducts. 
Hydropower is electricity generated using the energy of moving water. Rain or melted snow, usually originating in hills and mountains, create streams and rivers that eventually run to the ocean. The energy of that moving water can be substantial, as anyone who has been whitewater rafting knows. Hydropower is the cheapest way to generate electricity today. That's because once a dam has been built and the equipment installed, the energy source—flowing water—is free. It's a clean fuel source that is renewable yearly by snow and rainfall.
One turns to the other and says “dam!”... It may be a particularly bad joke, but it does have something to do with this post. Hydropower (or hydroenergy) is a form of renewable energy that uses the water stored in dams, as well as flowing in rivers to create electricity in hydropower plants. 
Hydropower is the most advanced and mature renewable energy technology, and provides some level of electricity generation in more than 160 countries worldwide. Hydropower plants range from very small to very large individual plants and vast integrated schemes involving multiple large hydropower plants. 
‘Hydro’ means water, and ‘power’ in physics means energy that is used for some purpose. Therefore, hydropower is a power that generated from the energy of flowing water. Thanks to the technology, we can capture this power and turn it into electricity that is very useful for our daily life. Nice article, it's a great information regarding to hydro-power energy. Hydro-power is useful to generating electricity from flowing water. Electricity is must essential to our daily life. Here well described the process of transforming hydro-power energy into electricity.
1 Hydropower is the most important and widely-used renewable source of energy. 2  Hydropower represents 19% of total electricity production. 3  China is the largest producer of hydroelectricity, followed by Canada, Brazil, and the United States (Source: Energy Information Administration). Hydropower does not pollute the water or the air. However, hydropower facilities can have large environmental impacts by changing the environment and affecting land use, homes, and natural habitats in the dam area. Most hydroelectric power plants have a dam and a reservoir.