Polarity determines if a substance is water-soluble. A polair substance is a substance that has two kinds of 'poles', as in a magnet. When another substance is also polair the poles of the substances attract each other and as a result the substances mix. A substance then dissolves in water. Substances that contain no 'poles' are called apolair substances. One of these atoms is called hydrogen and the other is called oxygen. As you probably know the air that we breathe also contains oxygen. One particle of water is called a molecule. When lots of water molecules melt together we can see the water and drink it or use it, for instance to flush a toilet.
49 Physical Properties and Structure of Solids INTRODUCTION: Depending on whether the kind of bonding in a pure substance is primarily ionic, covalent or metallic in character, a substance may be described as ionic, molecular, macromolecular or metallic. Ionic substances have high melting points, usually above 300 o C but below 1000 o C. When molten, ionic substances conduct an electric current because the ions can move freely, but in the solid state, they do not conduct electricity due to the rigid structure and strong bonding in the crystal lattice.
The changes from a liquid to a solid or to a gas are called phase changes. When a substance such as water changes phase, its physical appearance changes, but not its chemical properties. This is because the chemical structure remains the same, but the molecules of which it consists will float a little further apart. One of these atoms is called hydrogen and the other is called oxygen. As you probably know the air that we breathe also contains oxygen. One particle of water is called a molecule. When lots of water molecules melt together we can see the water and drink it or use it, for instance to flush a toilet.
Melting and boiling points Molecular substances tend to be gases, liquids or low melting point solids, because the intermolecular forces of attraction are comparatively weak. You don't have to break any covalent bonds in order to melt or boil a molecular substance.
These properties are classified as physical properties and chemical properties. Physical properties are those that can be determined or measured without changing the composition or identity of the substance. These properties include color, odor, taste, density, melting point, boiling point, conductivity, and hardness. B. Solubility in water (a polar liquid) Repeat the solubility test from part A using 1 mL of water in place of the cyclohexane. C. Solubility in ethanol (an organic polar liquid) Repeat the solubility test from part A using 1 mL of absolute ethanol
The physical properties of molecular substances Molecules are made of fixed numbers of atoms joined together by covalent bonds, and can range from the very small (even down to single atoms, as in the noble gases) to the very large (as in polymers, proteins or even DNA). Molecular substances tend to be gases, liquids or low melting point solids, because the intermolecular forces of attraction are comparatively weak. You don't have to break any covalent bonds in order to melt or boil a molecular substance.
DECIDING WHAT TYPE OF STRUCTURE A SUBSTANCE HAS. This page explains how you can decide what sort of structure a substance has by looking at its physical properties. The page originally had a brief kinetic theory description of solids, liquids and gases. Deducing the type of bonding from physical properties. Melting and boiling points. The best place to start is usually the physical state. Melting point isn't always a good guide to the size of the attractions between particles, because the attractive forces have only been loosened on melting-not broken entirely.
DECIDING WHAT TYPE OF STRUCTURE A SUBSTANCE HAS This page explains how you can decide what sort of structure a substance has by looking at its physical properties. The page originally had a brief kinetic theory description of solids, liquids and gases. Deducing the type of bonding from physical properties. Melting and boiling points. The best place to start is usually the physical state. Melting point isn't always a good guide to the size of the attractions between particles, because the attractive forces have only been loosened on melting-not broken entirely.
The general properties of matter such as color, density, hardness, are examples of physical properties. Properties that describe how a substance changes into a completely different substance are called chemical properties. Flammability and corrosion/oxidation resistance are examples of chemical properties. The difference between a physical and chemical property is straightforward until the phase of the material is considered. When a material changes from a solid to a liquid to a vapor it seems like them become a difference substance.
MOLECULAR STRUCTURES This page describes how the physical properties of substances having molecular structures varies with the type of intermolecular attractions-hydrogen bonding or van der Waals forces. Molecular substances tend to be gases, liquids or low melting point solids, because the intermolecular forces of attraction are comparatively weak. You don't have to break any covalent bonds in order to melt or boil a molecular substance.