Onyx is formed of bands of chalcedony in alternating colors. It is cryptocrystalline, consisting of fine intergrowths of the silica minerals quartz and moganite. Its bands are parallel to one another, as opposed to the more chaotic banding that often occurs in agates. Agate and onyx are both varieties of layered chalcedony that differ only in the form of the bands: agate has curved bands and onyx has parallel bands.
Onyx is a banded variety of the silicate mineral chalcedony. Agate and onyx are both varieties of layered chalcedony that differ only in the form of the bands: agate has curved bands and onyx has parallel bands. The colors of its bands range from white to almost every color (save some shades, such as purple or blue)
1 Crazy Lace Agate-Agate with twisting and turning bands of various colors. 2  Dendritic Agate-Translucent Chalcedony with tree-like or fern-like inclusions. 3  Dendritic Agate is technically not a true Agate, as it lacks the banding patterns exhibited in Agates. 1 Moss Agate is technically not a true Agate as it lacks the banding patterns of Agate. 2  Onyx-Type of Chalcedony gemstone whose meaning can have several connotations. 3  Its most practical gemstone definition describes a solid black Chalcedony, or a banded or layered black and white Chalcedony.
Good day to all, James here again. I am wondering as to why I am reading on all websites that black onyx is a dyed stone. In Iran black natural agate is one of the most common religious gemstones (maybe even more popular than Yemenite agate now) for mens rings, and it is natural occurring black agate. 
Black and colored onyx is always dyed. Onyz is easily dyed, so beware of the more unnatural looking colors, such as bright blue, etc. Onyx with red and white bands is sometimes referred to as Sardonyx. Onyx is the black variety of agate. However some parts are more or less translucent.
Stones-Agate/Onyx-Black & Black Banded. Black onyx is found in nature, but is also often dyed for jewelry use. Black banded onyx or agate refers to the specific form that has bands of black and white, with minimal or no grey or brown. Bands need not be fine. Almost always cut en cabochon
The name onyx usually refers to chalcedony of alternate bands, usually white and black. Like quartz crystals, onyx is a hard rock, rated in the Mohs scale of hardness at 6 to 7. Agate is also a kind of chalcedony that occurs in different bands of colors, not excluding black and white. If the stripes in a banded chalcedony are parallel to each other, the stone is called onyx. If the bands are chaotic, the stone is just agate. This differentiation is only artificial, however, and is not thoroughly observed. The fact is, the onyx gemstone is a variety of agate. Agate comes in a great variety of colors, but when agate occurs in black and white bands, the stone may be called onyx. In modern usage, the name onyx itself usually refers to black onyx. The use of this black onyx gemstone is traced far back in history
All the examples of agate, onyx and chalcedony above have been dyed! Dying Chalcedony, Agate and Onyx first involves boiling the stone in a strong bicarbonate solution, then soaking the stone in a chemical solution. Red: iron nitrate solution Green: chromic acid or nickel nitrate Brown: sugar solution followed by heat.
Onyx is a chalcedony with straight bands of colors. Black onyx occurs in nature in thin bands. What you find in the stores is almost always dyed. Sardonyx is onyx with white and red layers. Flint and chert are opaque, dull gray or white. 