In the western Pacific the countercurrent is centered near 5°N while in the central Pacific it is located near 7°N. The northern boundary of the Pacific NECC is easily defined by the adjacent westward flow found in the North Equatorial Current (NEC). The southern boundary, however, can be more ambiguous.
In the Indian Ocean, the countercurrent is present only during the winter. Equatorial countercurrents, driven by tropical surface wind patterns, flow in the opposite direction of the surface winds. There are large month-to-month changes in the strengths of the Pacific and Atlantic equatorial coun-tercurrents.
Equatorial Countercurrent (Global Warming). EQUATORIAL COUNTERCURRENTS ARE major surface flows that carry water eastward in the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans. They are located near the equator and are sandwiched between two westward-flowing currents, the North Equatorial Current and the South Equatorial Current.
The North Equatorial Counter Current (NECC) lies between 3°-10°N and is considered to roughly serve as the northern boundary for the South Equatorial Current (SEC) (Peterson and Stramma 1991; Bourles et. al. 1999).
...is very strong and is definable year-round. The Atlantic Equatorial Countercurrent is strongest off the coast of Ghana (Africa), where it is known as the Guinea Current. The countercurrent of the Indian Ocean flows only during the northern winter and only south of the equator.
Equatorial Countercurrent--Why it occurs • South Equatorial Current is located around 5°S and the North Equatorial Current is located around 5°N. • Both flow in the same direction, resulting in a “piling up” of water on one side.
The equatorial countercurrent in the Pacific is clearly definable year-round between 2° and 12° N lat.; the countercurrent in the Atlantic Ocean, in the summer between 3° and 10° N lat.; and that in the Indian Ocean, in the winter between 2° and 10° S lat.
In the Indian Ocean, the equatorial countercurrent is located several hundred mi. (km.) south of the equator, but is caused by a similar mechanism. In all three oceans, the equatorial countercurrent is concentrated in the upper 656 ft. (200 m.), above the thermocline.
There is also a South Equatorial Countercurrent (SECC) that transports water from west to east in the Pacific and Atlantic basins between 2°S and 5°S in the western basin and farther south toward the east.