1 For Priority Handling: There is an additional fee of $15.00 per birth certificate copy. ( 2 Total per copy is $45.00). 3  Internet and telephone orders require a major credit card. 4  These orders receive priority handling and the fee is $30.00 + $15.00 priority handling fee for a total of $45.00 per birth certificate copy. 1 The fee is $30.00 per birth certificate copy. 2  For Priority Handling: There is an additional fee of $15.00 per birth certificate copy. ( 3 Total per copy is $45.00). 4
A full certificate is a copy of the original entry in the birth register, giving all the recorded details. Information includes; name, sex, date and place of birth of the child, father's name, place of birth and occupation, mother's name, place of birth, maiden name and occupation. The term birth certificate can refer to either the original document certifying the circumstances of the birth or to a certified copy of or representation of the ensuing registration of that birth.
A birth record contains information about the birth of an individual. On a birth record, you can usually find the mother's full maiden name and the father's full name, the name of the baby, the date of the birth, and county where the birth took place. 
Quickest Processing Times On The Internet Order government issued certified birth certificates instantly from your computer, no waiting in long lines. We offer multiple delivery options to get your birth certificate to you in the time you require. See the top of the order form for pricing.
How to obtain vital records (such as birth certificates, death records, marriage licenses, divorce decrees, naturalization, adoption and land records) from each state, territory and county of the United States. See the guidelines for information on how to order vital records. 
A certified copy of a birth certificate has an official state registrar's raised, embossed, impressed or multicolored seal, registrar's signature, and the date the certificate was filed with the registrar's office, which must be within 1 year of the person's date of birth. By Robert Longley. A birth certificate or a certified copy of an original birth certificate is becoming increasingly important as a required form of identification. A birth certificate is required for getting a US passport and when applying for Social Security benefits.
A birth certificate is a vital record that documents the birth of a child. The term birth certificate can refer to either the original document certifying the circumstances of the birth or to a certified copy of or representation of the ensuing registration of that birth.
Be sure to order only the full, certified copy of the original birth certificate bearing the registrar's raised, embossed, impressed or multicolored seal, registrar's signature, and the date the certificate was filed with the registrar's office. By Robert Longley. A birth certificate or a certified copy of an original birth certificate is becoming increasingly important as a required form of identification. A birth certificate is required for getting a US passport and when applying for Social Security benefits.
| Print |. We only issue certified copies of a birth or death certificate on file. The certified copy will show the name of the subject at birth, date of birth, place of birth, parents’ names, file date, and certificate number. The certified photocopy will be a copy on security paper of the original certificate. It may contain additional information such as time of birth. Many birth certificates were handwritten and may be difficult to read.