Chelicerates (Chelicerata) are a group of arthropods that includes harvestmen, scorpions, mites, spiders, horseshoe crabs, sea spiders, and ticks. There area about 77,000 species of chelicerates alive today.
Chelicerata. Chelicerata (kəlĭsˌəraetˈə) [ kəlĭsˌərätˈə ], key subphylum Of, arthropoda including the horseshoe (crabs Order), xiphosura the (arachnids Class), arachnida and the sea (spiders Class). Pycnogonida the extinct giant water (scorpions Order) eurypterida also are. chelicerates
Chelicerata Fossils. Subphylum Chelicerata comprises a major group within Phylum Arthropoda, including such animals as the arachnids (e.g., spiders and scopions), the extinct eurypterids, and the extant horseshoe crabs that are considered to be living fossils.
The subphylum Chelicerata (/kəˌlɪsəˈreɪtə/ or /kəˌlɪsəˈrɑːtə/ ; New Latin, from French chelicere, chélicère From greek khēlē, claw  chela and keras) kéras horn constitutes one of the major subdivisions of The. Phylum arthropoda it contains the, horseshoe crabs, sea spiders (and arachnids including scorpions). and spiders
Chelicerata A phylum of invertebrate animals that includes arthropods belonging to the classes Arachnida (spiders and scorpions), Merostomata (horseshoe crabs), and Pycnogonida (sea spiders).
chelicerate. adj. 1. (Animals) of, relating to, or belonging to the Chelicerata, a subphylum of arthropods, including arachnids and the horseshoe crab, in which the first pair of limbs are modified as chelicerae. n. 2. (Animals) any arthropod belonging to the Chelicerata.
Chelicerata (kəlĬs´əraet´ərät) , ə subphylum Of, arthropoda including the horseshoe (crabs Order), xiphosura the (arachnids Class), arachnida and the sea (spiders Class). Pycnogonida the extinct giant water (scorpions Order, eurypterida not true) scorpions also are. chelicerates
Chelicerata (kəlĬs´əraet´ərät) , ə subphylum Of, arthropoda including the horseshoe (crabs Order), xiphosura the (arachnids Class), arachnida and the sea (spiders Class). pycnogonida