Minerals and salts make the bath water feel silky and leave your skin cleansed and soft. 1 cup sea salts. 2 cups baking soda. 1 cup Epsom salts. 1 to 2 tablespoons glycerin per bath. Combine the sea salts, baking soda, and Epsom salts in a bowl. Stir to blend. Pour 1/4 cup or so into the bath while the tub is filling. Add 1 to 2 tablespoons glycerin to keep your skin from drying out (more for dry skin, less for oily skin) and essential oils of choice. Preparation time: 2 to 3 minutes. 
Dissolve a quarter cup of sea salt, a quarter cup of Epsom salt, and another quarter cup of baking soda in some boiled water inside a jar about a quart-size. Set aside. Then fill bath tub with warm or hot water and add 1/3 cup apple cider vinegar. Pour the salt mixture into the bath. Fill the bathtub or sitz bath with enough warm water to be able to submerge your body when you sit. Mix four to five tablespoons of baking soda into the water. Use a wooden spoon to help dissolve baking soda. Soak affected area for 10-20 minutes. Gently dry off with a soft towel to avoid further irritation.
Salt Detox Bath Instructions. Dissolve Salt, epsom salt, and baking soda in boiling water in a quart size jar and set aside. Fill tub with warm/hot water and add apple cider vinegar. Pour salt mixture in and add essential oils if using. 1 I mix with a plastic spoon in a glass jar. 2  Add the clay mix to the bath and soak for at least 20 minutes. 3  Mix that clay with a small amount of water to make a paste. 4  Stand in the tub full of water and rub the clay mix all over your body to create a skin mask and let dry for 5 minutes before sitting down.
1 Combine 1-part Epsom salt to a 2-part baking soda – mixture creates this basic detox bath for one 30 minute soak. 2  For a first detox bath, measure 1 cup of Epsom salt and 2 cups of baking soda. 3  Add mixture while drawing hot bath water, filling the tub 2/3 of the way full. 4  Soak for at least one half hour. 1 For a first detox bath, measure 1 cup of Epsom salt and 2 cups of baking soda. 2  Add mixture while drawing hot bath water, filling the tub 2/3 of the way full. 3  Soak for at least one half hour.
Instructions. 1  Combine 1-part Epsom salt to a 2-part baking soda – mixture creates this basic detox bath for one 30 minute soak. 2  For a first detox bath, measure 1 cup of Epsom salt and 2 cups of baking soda. 3  Add mixture while drawing hot bath water, filling the tub 2/3 of the way full. 1 For a first detox bath, measure 1 cup of Epsom salt and 2 cups of baking soda. 2  Add mixture while drawing hot bath water, filling the tub 2/3 of the way full. 3  Soak for at least one half hour.
Baking Soda Bath: Recipe 2. Fill bath tub with hot water. Mix half a cup of Epsom salts and half a cup of baking soda. Add the mixture to the water while still running to make sure it dissolves well. Soak in the tub for 20 minutes. Fill the bathtub or sitz bath with enough warm water to be able to submerge your body when you sit. Mix four to five tablespoons of baking soda into the water. Use a wooden spoon to help dissolve baking soda. Soak affected area for 10-20 minutes. Gently dry off with a soft towel to avoid further irritation.
1 Add the clay mix to the bath and soak for at least 20 minutes. 2  Mix that clay with a small amount of water to make a paste. 3  Stand in the tub full of water and rub the clay mix all over your body to create a skin mask and let dry for 5 minutes before sitting down. 1 I mix with a plastic spoon in a glass jar. 2  Add the clay mix to the bath and soak for at least 20 minutes. 3  Mix that clay with a small amount of water to make a paste. 4
Instructions. 1  Combine 1-part Epsom salt to a 2-part baking soda – mixture creates this basic detox bath for one 30 minute soak. 2  Add mixture while drawing hot bath water, filling the tub 2/3 of the way full. 3  Soak for at least one half hour. 1 For a first detox bath, measure 1 cup of Epsom salt and 2 cups of baking soda. 2  Add mixture while drawing hot bath water, filling the tub 2/3 of the way full. 3  Soak for at least one half hour.