The contribution margin, sometimes used as a ratio, is the difference between a company's total sales revenue and variable costs. In other words, the contribution margin equals the amount that sales exceed variable costs. This is the sales amount that can be used to, or contributed to, pay off fixed costs. The contribution margin ratio takes the concept of the contribution margin per unit produced and calculates it as a percentage of the sales price per unit.
On a per unit basis, contribution is calculated as: Contribution Margin per unit of sales = Sales Revenue per Unit-Variable Expenses per Unit. Contribution Margin-Fixed Costs = Net Operating Profit or Loss. The break-even formula calculates the point at which a company's sales are zero-there is no profit or loss:
Product Revenue-Product Variable Costs Product Revenue. The phrase contribution margin can also refer to a per unit measure of a product's gross operating margin, calculated simply as the product's price minus its total variable costs. It is calculated as follows: Product Revenue-Product Variable Costs Product Revenue. The phrase contribution margin can also refer to a per unit measure of a product's gross operating margin, calculated simply as the product's price minus its total variable costs. Next Up.
The contribution margin as a percentage of total sales is referred to as contribution margin ratio (CM Ratio). 
contribution margin ratio. This ratio indicates the percentage of each sales dollar that is available to cover a company's fixed expenses and profit. The ratio is calculated by dividing the contribution margin (sales minus all variable expenses) by sales
Contribution Margin Ratio | Contribution Margin Formula. The contribution margin ratio is the difference between a company's sales and variable expenses, expressed as a percentage. The total margin generated by an entity represents the total earnings available to pay for fixed expenses and generate a profit. To calculate the contribution margin ratio, divide the contribution margin by sales. The contribution margin is calculated by subtracting all variable costs from sales.
Contribution Margin. Contribution margin (CM) is the amount by which sales revenue exceeds variable costs. It can be calculated as contribution margin per unit as well as total contribution margin, using the following formulas: Unit CM = Unit Price − Variable Cost per Unit. 
Contribution Margin Ratio. The contribution margin ratio takes the concept of the contribution margin per unit produced and calculates it as a percentage of the sales price per unit. This shows what percentage of sales is made up of the contribution margin
Definition: Contribution margin ratio (CM ratio) is the ratio of contribution margin to net sales. The ratio can also be shown in percentage form as follows: The numerator of the formula i.e., contribution margin can be calculated using simple contribution margin equation or by preparing a contribution margin income statement.
To calculate breakeven in dollars, divide its fixed expenses by the contribution margin ratio of 60% ($60,000/.6 = $100,000). This means that the company has to make $100,000 in sales to breakeven. The contribution margin ratio is an important financial metric to calculate the profit potential for a business firm. If the dollar amount of sales increases by one dollar, in this example, the contribution margin increases by 60 cents. The contribution margin ratio is the contribution margin as a percentage of total sales. Use the following formula to calculate the contribution margin ratio: Contribution Margin Ratio = Contribution Margin/Sales. Here is an example using break-even analysis :