A flechette /flɛˈʃɛt/ fleh-SHET is a pointed steel projectile, with a vaned tail for stable flight. The name comes from French flechette, fléchette little arrow  or , dart and sometimes retains the grave accent In: english. flechette fléchette A number of prototype flechette-firing weapons were developed as part of the long-running Special Purpose Individual Weapon (SPIW) project. Some of these showed up as entries in the Advanced Combat Rifle project as well.
This is 12 gauge ammo loaded with Flechette darts. A Flechette is a small dart shaped projectile, which have fins and is made from steel. This unique application of loading these Flechette darts into 12 gauge shells was widely used in Vietnam for taking out snipers hiding in thick cover and trees. 
A needlegun, also known as a needler, flechette gun or fletcher, is a firearm that fires small, sometimes fin-stabilized, metal darts or flechettes. The first projectiles in early gun systems dating from the 14th century were typically hand wrought iron flechettes wrapped in a leather sabot. However, due to the expense and trouble of making these darts in a pre-industrial society, they were soon replaced with the less accurate stone cannonball.
There was also a flechette round for the M40 recoilless rifle, which was sometimes employed by American infantry. Heavier artillery, including 155 mm howitzers, 8-inch howitzers, and 175 mm guns, did not have a flechette round. A number of prototype flechette-firing weapons were developed as part of the long-running Special Purpose Individual Weapon (SPIW) project. Some of these showed up as entries in the Advanced Combat Rifle project as well.
This is coolbert: Here is a weapon that is a favorite of Bert. NOT sure if this is still in the U.S. arsenal, but it should be. The flechette round. An artillery round, fired from a big-bore piece, ordinarily a 105 mm howitzer or a 106 mm recoilless rifle, that can cause a big world-of-hurt for the enemy. An artillery round, that when fired, sends a spew, a cloud of small arrow-like flechettes at the enemy
Flechette ammunition was also a special pre-order bonus that is a part of the  Physical Warfare pack . It is available for use in the exclusive unlock DAO-12 shotgun that comes as a bonus in the pack as well (a Day 1 unlock, not an exclusive unlike the Type 88 LMG or Flash Suppressor). 12 Gauge Flechette is the first unlockable ammunition type for shotguns (except the M26 MASS, for which it is the third) in Battlefield 3.
Battlefield 3 Edit. 12 Gauge Flechette is the first unlockable ammunition type for shotguns (except the M26 MASS, for which it is the third) in Battlefield 3. The rounds are stated to have increased penetration capabilities for shotguns, allowing a user to easily penetrate light cover and even other players. 12 Gauge Flechette is the first unlockable ammunition type for shotguns (except the M26 MASS, for which it is the third) in Battlefield 3
Flechette Ammunition in reality. Flechette Ammunition is a special type of ammunition that uses small pointed steel projectiles that act like small darts. Flechette ammunition consists of a pointed steel head with a long and vaned tail for stable flight. 12 Gauge Flechette is the first unlockable ammunition type for shotguns (except the M26 MASS, for which it is the third) in Battlefield 3.
For the film producer, see Flechette (company). The French word flechette means little arrow or dart projectile of steel that is sharp and pointed with a vaned tail for stable flight. In the 1960s the United States Army began early developmental work on a flechette rifle cartridge. It fired steel darts that looked very much like steel nails with fins stamped into the back (nails with tails). The flechettes were 3 – 5 cm long, and 1 – 2 mm in diameter, with a 4 – 5 mm fin diameter.