A commodity manager is responsible for overseeing the acquisition, use and sale of a particular type of commodity. Governments, businesses and investment firms employ commodity managers and these individuals often preside over a team of traders. 
When businesses seek to procure finished goods, raw materials, or supplies, they depend on commodity managers to make it happen. Whether a firm is involved in creating, producing or selling goods and services, commodity management is an important link in the supply chain. With this career guide, you can learn more about the commodity manager position, including job duties, required education and training, potential job opportunities and earnings. As a general rule, most commodity managers will have a college degree and work experience. 1  Associate’s Degree: Some entry-level jobs in the commodities field may be obtained with a two-year associate’s degree and related work experience. 2  Continuing education is typically required for advancing to management positions.
Commodity management is becoming an increasingly important role within the supply chain community as more and more companies attempt to secure their supplier lines, deliver value for money and develop structured relationships with key suppliers. Common commodities that we are all familiar with include petrol, gas, wheat, coffee (to a large extent), gold and of course, oil, but in effect there are many more. Commodities Market. Commodity management requires a very strategic and robust plan to ensure that both value and risk is managed correctly.
The commodity manager also has to liaise with suppliers to ensure that the supply chain is as stable as possible, so that there is no risk of the supply chain breaking down. Although traditionally this is the role of procurement, this fits in well with the role of the commodity manager. Thus the role of a commodity manager is extremely complex and it has to be undertaken by someone who is capable of understanding markets, the supply chain, how the business works and so on. Common commodities that we are all familiar with include petrol, gas, wheat, coffee (to a large extent), gold and of course, oil, but in effect there are many more. Commodities Market. Commodity management requires a very strategic and robust plan to ensure that both value and risk is managed correctly.
Commodity Manager Job Description The following is a full job description for Commodity Manager. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Commodity Manager along with statistics. 
The commodity manager is typically responsible for overseeing the purchasing and logistics staff. Their main objective is to ensure all departmental employees are providing high quality work and meeting all company standards. The commodity manager is also responsible for establishing approval guidelines for all purchase orders and makes sure that all purchasing procedures are followed. They also provide analysis on corporate suppliers and delegate tasks to subordinates as needed.
Often the role of procurement manager and commodities manager are very closely interlinked and very often the two roles are combined, so that the person who is responsible for procurement will also be responsible for commodity management. Common commodities that we are all familiar with include petrol, gas, wheat, coffee (to a large extent), gold and of course, oil, but in effect there are many more. Commodities Market. Commodity management requires a very strategic and robust plan to ensure that both value and risk is managed correctly.
A global commodity manager is a key individual within the purchasing organisation. It is a complex role that requires a number of skills, qualifications and attributes. A global commodity manager does more than simply buy commodities on a global basis. Instead the global commodity manager co-ordinates the procurement strategy for that commodity. This will involve an in depth understanding of the market, supplier sourcing, risk and performance management
Commodity Management is the process of developing a systematic approach to the entire usage cycle for a group of items. The term is often used interchangeably with Category Management. It is generally considered as one aspect of the Procurement Management toolkit, and frequently used in combination with other tools – such as 'two-by-four-box' analysis, looking at the strategic positioning of that commodity with respect to an organisation and its supplier.