Cerebral palsy (CP) is an umbrella term for a group of disorders affecting body movement, balance, and posture. Loosely translated, cerebral palsy means brain paralysis.. Cerebral palsy is caused by abnormal development or damage in one or more parts of the brain that control muscle tone and motor activity (movement). 
It is estimated that two out of every 1,000 newborn children will develop cerebral palsy. And approximately 40% of those born with cerebral palsy will have a severe case. Right now, about 10,000 babies and infants are diagnosed with the condition each year. In 2002, the number of cerebral palsy cases in 8-year-old children was found to be one in 278. 
Some individuals with cerebral palsy (CP) have other conditions, such as impaired intellectual development, seizures, failure to grow and thrive, and vision and sense of touch problems. Some individuals, particularly those with spastic hemiplegia, have muscles and limbs that are smaller than normal. A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Cerebral palsy affects the body by causing difficulty in muscle control and movement. In some cases these difficulties can lead to other problems. Sometimes, the stiffness of muscles is so severe that limbs are contorted. Difficulty eating caused by cerebral palsy can result in malnutrition
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a group of disorders that affect a person’s ability to move and maintain balance and posture. CP is the most common motor disability in childhood. Cerebral means having to do with the brain. Palsy means weakness or problems with using the muscles. CP is caused by abnormal brain development or damage to the developing brain that affects a person’s ability to control his or her muscles. The most common type of CP is spastic CP. Spastic CP affects about 80% of people with CP. People with spastic CP have increased muscle tone. This means their muscles are stiff and, as a result, their movements can be awkward.
Cerebral palsy can affect a person’s posture, balance and ability to move, communicate, eat, sleep and learn. The parts of the body affected by cerebral palsy, the level of severity and combination of symptoms can differ for each person. For example, one person may have a weakness in one hand and find tasks like writing or tying shoelaces challenging. Because cerebral palsy can affect the muscles around the mouth, 1 in 5 children with cerebral palsy have saliva loss (also known as dribbling, drooling or sialorhrea). The saliva loss may be more noticeable when they are concentrating on a fine motor task.
Cerebral palsy affects the areas of the brain that control muscle tone, movement, balance and coordination. As a result, all people who have cerebral palsy experience some degree of difficulty making smooth, deliberate movements. 
Cerebral palsy affects body movement, muscle control, muscle coordination, muscle tone, reflex, posture and balance. It can also impact fine motor skills, gross motor skills and oral motor functioning. Cerebral palsy affects muscle tone, gross and fine motor functions, balance, coordination, and posture. These are considered primary conditions of cerebral palsy. There are associative conditions, like seizures and intellectual impairment, which are common in individuals with