Morgen David Concord-I just tried Mogen David Concord for the first time, and this is one of the best tasting wines I have ever drank! Most of the sweet reds have way too much of a bitter taste for me, and this is so smooth, I will definitely buy again & recommend to my friends! mertoni. 
Mogen David wine. This is an important thing. Mogen David went on to become MD 20/20, but when it was this it was just kosher table wine. Kosher table wine that became well-known for sweetness and cheapness. And so became popular among poor folk. And so it became hobo-wine, back in the 30s and 40s
I have a full bottle of Deluxe Cream White Concord Wine bottle by Mogen David Wine Corp. It says it is a Limited edition collector decanter. Any idea where I can find what it is worth and if it is still good. I found it in my Grandpas attic and have no idea how long it has been up there. I try to try different wines, but when I try to find something new it doesn't seem to workout. so when I get a selection I don't like this is my goto I will mix it and it makes it All better Read More. Wine review by justboss. I love MD wine with a good shot of grape Brandy!!
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Mogen David is a company based in Westfield, New York that makes wines, including the fortified wine MD 20/20, colloquially known as Mad Dog 20/20. Mogen David is the Yiddish pronunciation of the Hebrew Magen David, which literally means shield of David, but is used metaphorically to refer to the six-pointed Star of David.
By 1952, Mogen David was among the most popular wines in the Midwest, selling more than 5 million gallons. Manischewitz is everybody's wine, a 1958 ad insisted. Two years later, the company hired Sammy Davis Jr. to croon the praises of its Sweet Concord White, reviving its radio-era slogan: Man-o-Manischewitz.. In 1947, the Wine Corporation of America took the name of its leading product, Mogen David, and began to market it as the wine like Grandma used to make.. One rival proclaimed that, For generations, New Yorkers have preferred Schapiro's..
Apparently, asking for Mogen David in public is a major faux pas. The house has none and I wonder if the young waiter has ever heard of it. Mogen David, around since 1933, holds a special place in my memory. When I was growing up, it was the wine served by my parents when guests came to our home. Even the children were allowed a smidgen mixed with 7-Up. It made the day all the more festive.
Mogen David Wine Co. on Snooth. Page 1 of 5. Add Comment. Have been looking for your Sangria wine.It is by your company. Comment by 1900294Snoother 1900294 1900294. I could swear there used to be a 40/40 version of this fine wine. Comment by 1900200Brooks Darkraven 1900200. I need Concord Wine for my churches communion. I try to try different wines, but when I try to find something new it doesn't seem to workout. so when I get a selection I don't like this is my goto I will mix it and it makes it All better Read More. Wine review by justboss. I love MD wine with a good shot of grape Brandy!!