When you want the very best ticket package for your money, then you have to check out this 7 Day Premium Disney Ticket. This ticket is good for one adult, ages 10+, and will get you into the Magic Kingdom, Epcot Center, Hollywood Studios and the Animal Kingdom, plus the 2 water parks! 4 day Premium Disney Ticket for an Adult (ages 10+) 5th Day FREE! When you want to experience the very best that Disney has to offer you while you are vacationing in Orlando, you want to get your hand on this 4 Day Premium Disney ticket.
3 day Premium Disney Ticket for an Adult (ages 10+). When you are looking for the premium ticket to visit all of the Disney parks, there is only one ticket that will allow you to do things your way and that is the 3 Day Premium Disney Ticket. 4 day Premium Disney Ticket for an Adult (ages 10+) 5th Day FREE! When you want to experience the very best that Disney has to offer you while you are vacationing in Orlando, you want to get your hand on this 4 Day Premium Disney ticket.
The Magic Your Way Base Ticket is the base ticket for Walt Disney World ® and includes one theme park admission per day for the number of days on the ticket, and expires 14 days from first use. It does not include park hopping or admission to other gated attractions, like Disney's water parks or Pleasure Island. For example, to upgrade an adult 5-day Disney's Park Hopper ticket purchased with advance purchase savings for $259 to a new adult 7-day Disney's Magic Your Way Ticket with Park Hopper option and Magic Plus Pack option ($279) would cost $20. A guest bought a park hopper at a discount through AAA.
Read More. Explore the 4 world-class theme parks and 2 outrageous water parks with a ticket package that allows you to see what you want when you want. Whether you visit one park a day or enjoy Park Hopper options that allow you to visit more than one, you can customize a ticket package that works best for your needs
Theme park tickets provide admission to one theme park per day for each day of your ticket. Take advantage of our Park Hopper Option for same-day admission to all 4 of our theme parks—Magic Kingdom park, Epcot, Disney's Animal Kingdom park and Disney's Hollywood Studios—on each day of your ticket. This ticket is not valid at EPCOT or Disney’s Hollywood Studios or Disney’s Animal Kingdom park. The 1-Day Ticket: EPCOT or Disney’s Hollywood Studios or Disney’s Animal Kingdom Park is valid for admission to any one of these 3 parks.
Now is the best time to get a 5 Day Premium Disney Ticket. This ticket is for an adult and gives you access to all 4 of the Disney theme parks with hopping, the 2 Disney Waterparks, along with Golfing and Disney Quest. 4 day Premium Disney Ticket for an Adult (ages 10+) 5th Day FREE! When you want to experience the very best that Disney has to offer you while you are vacationing in Orlando, you want to get your hand on this 4 Day Premium Disney ticket.
Water Parks Fun & More Option. This option offers a certain number of visits to Walt Disney World destinations based on the length of your ticket. For example, a 4-day ticket allows 4 visits and a 5-day ticket allows 5 visits. (The only exception to this is that a 1-day ticket allows 2 visits). This ticket is not valid at EPCOT or Disney’s Hollywood Studios or Disney’s Animal Kingdom park. The 1-Day Ticket: EPCOT or Disney’s Hollywood Studios or Disney’s Animal Kingdom Park is valid for admission to any one of these 3 parks.
This is a great 6 Day Premium Disney Ticket (for a child ages 3-9). What premium means is that you can hop between 4 Disney theme parks and see the 2 Disney Water Parks, Disney Quest and play Disney Golf and mini golf! This child ticket expires 14 days from the 1st use. 4 day Premium Disney Ticket for an Adult (ages 10+) 5th Day FREE! When you want to experience the very best that Disney has to offer you while you are vacationing in Orlando, you want to get your hand on this 4 Day Premium Disney ticket.
In addition, the per-day price of the Magic Your Way Base Ticket is less expensive than the per-day cost of Disney's Park Hopper pass (ex: $54.75 per day for a 4-day Park Hopper vs. $46.25 per day for the Magic Your Way Base Ticket). For example, to upgrade an adult 5-day Disney's Park Hopper ticket purchased with advance purchase savings for $259 to a new adult 7-day Disney's Magic Your Way Ticket with Park Hopper option and Magic Plus Pack option ($279) would cost $20. A guest bought a park hopper at a discount through AAA.