3. mantle-the layer of the earth between the crust and the core. layer-a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another. geosphere, lithosphere-the solid part of the earth consisting of the crust and outer mantle. lower mantle-the deeper part of the mantle. It consists mainly of silicate minerals and has an upper, partially molten part and a lower, solid part. The upper mantle is the source of magma and volcanic lava. 2. The layer of soft tissue that covers the body of a clam, oyster, or other mollusk and secretes the material that forms the shell.
The interior of Earth, similar to the other terrestrial planets, is chemically divided into layers. The mantle is a layer between the crust and the outer core. Earth's mantle is a silicate rocky shell with an average thickness of 2,886 kilometres (1,793 mi). The mantle makes up about 84% of Earth's volume. It is predominantly solid but in geological time it behaves as a very viscous fluid. The inner core is solid, the outer core is liquid, and the mantle solid/plastic. This is because of the relative melting points of the different layers (nickel–iron core, silicate crust and mantle) and the increase in temperature and pressure as depth increases.
The mantle lies between the core below and the crust above. The terrestrial planets (Earth, Venus, Mars and Mercury), Earth's Moon, two of Jupiter 's moons (Io and Europa) and the asteroid Vesta each have a mantle made of silicate rock. The inner core is solid, the outer core is liquid, and the mantle solid/plastic. This is because of the relative melting points of the different layers (nickel–iron core, silicate crust and mantle) and the increase in temperature and pressure as depth increases.
Definition. Mantle: is the part of the earth between the core and the the crust is the MANTLE. It is about 1,800 miles(2,900 km) thick and makes up nearly 80 percent of the Earth's total volume.The mantle is made up of magma and rock. Hawaiian Translation: ‘Ahu Honua.
Noun. 1. lower mantle-the deeper part of the mantle. layer-a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another. mantle-the layer of the earth between the crust and the core. 1  Facebook. 
Summary. The mantle is a layer of the Earth between the crust and the core. The upper mantle starts below the crust and goes down to a depth of around 200 miles to the boundary with the lower mantle. The temperature of the mantle ranges from 900 degrees Fahrenheit near the crust to as high as 7000 degrees near the core. The center of the earth is the core and it is solid, kind of like the pit in a peach. The outer layer of the Earth is called the crust and is thin, like the skin of the peach. In between the two, in the meat of the peach, is the mantle, which can further be divided into the upper and lower mantle.
] layers: inner core, outer core, mantle [mantle: A zone of hot rock in the interior of the Earth, located between the outer crust and the molten core. ] and crust [crust: The outer layer of the Earth, on top of the mantle. It is between 6 and 48 kilometres thick and includes the continents and the ocean floor. ] . 1 The mantle is made up of semi-molten rock called magma. 2  In the upper parts of the mantle the rock is hard, but lower down the rock is soft and beginning to melt. 3  The crust is the outer layer of the earth. 4  It is a thin layer between 0-60 km thick. 5  The crust is the solid rock layer upon which we live