Sherman Alexie's story “What You Pawn I Will Redeem” appears this week in the magazine and here online (see Fiction). Alexie has written several novels and the screenplays for the films “Smoke Signals” and last year's “The Business of Fancydancing,” the latter of which he also directed. 
Thematically, What You Pawn I Will Redeem is Alexie's attempt to play with and subvert the common motifs of the lone Indian and the noble savage that pervade much of American literature. This Study Guide consists of approximately 24 pages of chapter summaries, quotes, character analysis, themes, and more-everything you need to sharpen your knowledge of What You Pawn I Will Redeem.
What You Pawn I Will Redeem. Edit 0 5 …. Summary: Sherman Alexie's short story What You Pawn I Will Redeem details a homeless, alcoholic Native American, Jackson Jackson, who finds his grandmother's powwow dance regalia at a pawn shop and goes on a quest to buy it back. The narrator of What You Pawn I Will Redeem discloses both his race and his homeless status in the first paragraph, saying I'm not going to tell you my particular reasons for being homeless, because it's my secret story, and Indians have to work hard to keep secrets from hungry white folks (Alexie 438).
Posted on. (Answer #1). I really enjoyed the story “ What You Pawn I Will Redeem ” by Sherman Alexie. What made it so enjoyable for me, was not only the main character Jackson Jackson (AKA Jackson squared), but also the friends which were mentioned throughout this story. The story begins with the line, “One day you have a home and the next you don’t.” Jackson Jackson has a small entourage of homeless people who slowly disappear throughout the story. Jackson passes by a pawn shop and sees a dance regalia that belonged to his grandmother.
Sherman Alexie’s story titled “What You Pawn I Will Redeem” is narrated in the first person by its main character, a middle-aged American Indian named Jackson Jackson. 
What You Pawn I Will Redeem. Summary: The story is told through the character of Jackson Jackson. He is a homeless alcoholic of Spokane Indian decent who finds his grandmother’s regalia at a pawn shop. He sets out on a quest to raise $1000 and gain back this family heirloom. The story focuses on the obstacles Jackson faces and the humor he uses to get through his difficult position.
You’ve never been this stupid. In “What You Pawn I Will Redeem” by Sherman Alexie, the main character is a homeless Native American Indian who came to Seattle to go to college and quit after two semesters. Alexie creates a world where the protagonist seems to find help from every turn that he makes. Setting. The story begins with the line, “One day you have a home and the next you don’t.” Jackson Jackson has a small entourage of homeless people who slowly disappear throughout the story. Jackson passes by a pawn shop and sees a dance regalia that belonged to his grandmother.
This detailed literature summary also contains Bibliography on What You Pawn I Will Redeem by Sherman Alexie. What You Pawn I Will Redeem, first published in the April 2003 issue of The New Yorker magazine, is Sherman Alexie's contemporary take on the classic quest tale. This Study Guide consists of approximately 24 pages of chapter summaries, quotes, character analysis, themes, and more-everything you need to sharpen your knowledge of What You Pawn I Will Redeem.
Apr 06, 2014 10:16AM. What You Pawn I Will Redeem by Sherman Alexie is our next short story up for discussion. You can find it on the New Yorker site at http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2003... You don't need a subscription to access it. 