In a temporary compound that is used as an adjective before a noun, use a hyphen if the term can be misread or if the term expresses a single thought (i.e., all words together modify the noun). For example: Do not use a hyphen unless it serves a purpose. If a compound adjective cannot be misread or, as with many psychological terms, its meaning is established, a hyphen is not necessary. For example. 1  covert learning techniques. 2  health care reform.
An optional hyphen is a hyphen that is used to control where a word or phrase breaks if it falls at the end of a line. For example, you can specify that the word nonprinting breaks as non-printing instead of nonprint-ing.. Select the text that you want to hyphenate. On the Page Layout tab, in the Page Setup group, click Hyphenation, and then click Manual. If Office Word identifies a word or phrase to hyphenate, do one of the following: To insert an optional hyphen in the location that Office Word proposes, click Yes.
Hyphens' main purpose is to glue words together. They notify the reader that two or more elements in a sentence are linked. Although there are rules and customs governing hyphens, there are also situations when writers must decide whether to add them for clarity. For clarity, writers often hyphenate when the last letter in the root word is the same as the first letter in the suffix. Examples: graffiti-ism wiretap-proof. Rule 3. Use discretion—and sometimes a dictionary—before deciding to place a hyphen before a suffix.
When you insert an optional hyphen in a word that is not at the end of a line, the hyphen will be visible only if you turn on Show/Hide. On the Home tab, in the Paragraph group, click Show/Hide. Click in the word where you want to insert the optional hyphen. Press CTRL+HYPHEN. Select the text that you want to hyphenate. On the Page Layout tab, in the Page Setup group, click Hyphenation, and then click Manual. If Office Word identifies a word or phrase to hyphenate, do one of the following: To insert an optional hyphen in the location that Office Word proposes, click Yes.
Hyphens Between Words. Rule 1. Generally, hyphenate two or more words when they come before a noun they modify and act as a single idea. This is called a compound adjective. Examples: an off-campus apartment state-of-the-art design. When a compound adjective follows a noun, a hyphen may or may not be necessary. For clarity, writers often hyphenate when the last letter in the root word is the same as the first letter in the suffix. Examples: graffiti-ism wiretap-proof. Rule 3. Use discretion—and sometimes a dictionary—before deciding to place a hyphen before a suffix.
The hyphen (‐) is a punctuation mark used to join words and to separate syllables of a single word. The use of hyphens is called hyphenation. The hyphen should not be confused with dashes (‒ , – , — , ―), which are longer and have different uses, or with the minus sign (−), which is also longer in some contexts. As an orthographic concept, the hyphen is a single entity.
Verb. 1. hyphenate-divide or connect with a hyphen; hyphenate these words and names. hyphen. spell, write-write or name the letters that comprise the conventionally accepted form of (a word or part of a word); He spelled the word wrong in this letter. Translations.
Hyphen. For most writers, the hyphen’s primary function is the formation of certain compound terms. The hyphen is also used for word division, which is briefly explained here. Never use a hyphen in place of an en dash or an em dash. 
Hyphens in compound words. Hyphens are used in many compound words to show that the component words have a combined meaning (e.g. a pick-me-up, mother-in-law, good-hearted) or that there is a relationship between the words that make up the compound: for example, rock-forming minerals are minerals that form rocks. Hyphens are also used to stand for a common second element in all but the last word of a list, e.g. : You may see a yield that is two-, three-, or fourfold. You can read more about when to use hyphens on the Oxford Dictionaries blog.
Many such phrases are enclosed in quotation marks rather than hyphenated, which is reasonable for something that would conceivably be uttered — and doesn’t play havoc with narrow columns of type (as it may very well have done here). 