A time-and-materials contract may be used only when it is not possible at the time of placing the contract to estimate accurately the extent or duration of the work or to anticipate costs with any reasonable degree of confidence.
FAR 16.601. 1  Description. 2  A time-and-materials contract provides for acquiring supplies or services on the basis of-. 3  Direct labor hours at specified fixed hourly rates that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit; and.
1 Application. 2  A time-and-materials contract may be used only when it is not possible at the time of placing the contract to estimate accurately the extent or duration of the work or to anticipate costs with any reasonable degree of confidence. 3  Government surveillance.
Description. A labor-hour contract is a variation of the time-and-materials contract, differing only in that materials are not supplied by the contractor. See 12.207 (b), 16.601 (c), and 16.601 (d) for application and limitations, for time-and-materials contracts that also apply to labor-hour contracts.
16.601 Time-and-materials contracts. (a) Definitions for the purposes of Time-and-Materials Contracts. “Direct materials” means those materials that enter directly into the end product, or that are used or consumed directly in connection with the furnishing of the end product or service.
Time and material contract-definition. A time and materials contract is a method of compensation where the client pays an agreed hourly or daily rate for input provided by the consultant. In addition, any related expenses, or by exception, supplies, are charged to the client at cost.
Time and materials contract is a type of construction contract. Time and materials contract is an arrangement in which a contractor is paid on the basis of actual cost of direct labor, usually at specified hourly rates.
(c) Application. A time-and-materials contract may be used only when it is not possible at the time of placing the contract to estimate accurately the extent or duration of the work or to anticipate costs with any reasonable degree of confidence.