The snowy owl (Bubo scandiacus) is a large, white owl of the typical owl family. Snowy owls are native to Arctic regions in North America and Eurasia. Younger snowy owls start with darker plumage, which turns lighter as they get older. Males are almost all white, while females have more flecks of gray plumage. The snowy owl is typically found in the northern circumpolar region, where it makes its summer home north of latitude 60° north. However, it is a particularly nomadic bird, and because population fluctuations in its prey species can force it to relocate, it has been known to breed at more southerly latitudes.
Better places to observe a Snowy Owl in Massachusetts are Salisbury Beach State Reservation, Plum Island and Newburyport, Crane Beach and Duxbury Beach and various undeveloped beaches on Cape Cod and the islands of Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard. Snowy Owls hunt day or night. 
The near perfect camouflage of the snowy owl's striking white plumage against the Arctic's snowy tundra reveals only a glimpse of golden-yellow eyes. These large, powerful owls are so fond of their meal of choice-lemmings-they follow the population around, and may even miss a breeding season when the supply is scarce. Known too as the white terror of the north, the snowy owl uses versatile hunting techniques to hunt by day and pick off prey from land, sea and air. Very occasionally snowy owls might venture as far as the Shetland Isles, one of the coldest places in the UK. Scientific name: Bubo scandiacus.
Located The Snowy Owl is circumpolar and can be found in Alaska, Canada, Greenland, Russia, and many areas north of the Arctic Circle. It has a wide distribution area and will at times migrate to areas south of the Arctic Circle. 
The snowy owl is also known as the Arctic owl or the great white owl. The snowy owl is primarily found within the Arctic Circle with the range of the snowy owl ranging across Canada, Greenland, Europe and Asia. The snowy owl is the official bird of Quebec in the North-east of Canada
Snowy owls swallow their prey, such as lemmings, whole! In North America, snowy owls are found during the breeding season from the western Aleutians in Alaska to northeastern Manitoba (Churchill), northern Quebec and northern Labrador in Canada. In the winter, they can regularly be found in the northern United States. The snowy owl is also known as the Arctic owl or the Great White owl. Only females incubate the eggs. The male provides the female and young with food. The young owls begin to leave the nest around 25-26 days after hatching.
In winter, snowy owls can be found in Canada and the northern United States, Iceland, the British Isles, northern Europe, central Russia, northern China and Sakhalin. Though they are usually found in the arctic, every few years, snowy owls spend the winter much farther south that the arctic. Snowy owls are the largest bird species in the arctic. They are 63 to 73 cm long and have an average wingspan of 170 cm. Females are larger and heavier than the males. Females weigh 1550 to 1600 grams, and males weigh 1450 to 1500 grams. Snowy owls are white with brown spots and bars
The Snowy owl can be found in a number of locations including: Arctic, Asia, China, Europe, North America, Russia. Find out more about these places and what else lives there. Known too as the white terror of the north, the snowy owl uses versatile hunting techniques to hunt by day and pick off prey from land, sea and air. Very occasionally snowy owls might venture as far as the Shetland Isles, one of the coldest places in the UK. Scientific name: Bubo scandiacus.