SPACE.com Staff | January 15, 2013 09:41pm ET. Albert Einstein profoundly changed how we think about space and time. Einstein’s teachers probably had no clue what a famous man he would one day become, but contrary to what you might read on some older web pages out there, he was a good student. At age 12 Einstein had taught himself geometry. And his grades were good, according to those who've studied his archives.
Early years and education. Albert Einstein was born on March 14, 1879, in Ulm, Germany, but he grew up and obtained his early education in Munich, Germany. 
Albert Einstein, 1920. BIOGRAPHY. Albert Einstein was born as the first child of the Jewish couple Hermann and Pauline Einstein, nee Koch, in Ulm on March 14, 1879. When Albert s grandmother saw him for the first time she is said to have cried continuously: Much too thick! Einstein s famous formula: In this mathematical equation, E stands for energy, m for mass and c for the speed of the light in a vacuum (ca. 300,000 km/s). In 1903 he married his college mate Mileva Maric. One year later Einstein s first son, Hans Albert, was born and his second son Eduard followed in 1910. In 1909 he became professor for theoretical physics at the University of Zurich. After that time he was given a professorship in Prague and then again in Zurich.
Albert Einstein (14 March 1879 – 18 April 1955) was a German-born theoretical physicist who developed the general theory of relativity, one of the two pillars of modern physics (alongside quantum mechanics). He received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921. 
Albert Einstein was a German-born physicist who developed the general theory of relativity, among other feats. He is considered the most influential physicist of the 20th century. Born on March 14, 1879 in Ulm, Wuerttemberg, Württemberg, Germany Albert einstein grew up in a Secular jewish. Family his, Father Hermann, einstein was a salesman and engineer who with his brother Founded Elektrotechnische Fabrik. J & Einstein, cie A-munich based company that manufactured electrical. equipment
Photo: Albert Einstein. Albert Einstein was born in Germany in 1879. He enjoyed classical music and played the violin. One story Einstein liked to tell about his childhood was of a wonder he saw when he was four or five years old: a magnetic compass. Albert Einstein's first job was that of patent clerk. In 1933, he joined the staff of the newly created Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. He accepted this position for life, living there until his death.
Albert Einstein. Albert Einstein was a German-born theoretical physicist, best known for his Special and General Theory of Relativity and the concept of mass-energy equivalence expressed by the famous equation, E = mc2.
page 1 of 2. Albert Einstein was born on March 14, 1879 in Ulm, Germany. He was the first child born to Hermann and Pauline, a bourgeois Jewish couple married three years earlier. A few years later, when Einstein was four or five, he had his first scientific experience: his father showed him a pocket compass and the young boy marveled at the fact that regardless of where the compass was turned, the needle always pointed north.