Dissolved Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide Every atmospheric gas is in equilibrium with that gas dissolved in ocean water. The concentrations of two of these are particularly important. The concentration of oxygen in water is crucial to aquatic animals that depend on dissolved oxygen for respiration. The oceans are a major sink for atmospheric carbon dioxide. However, the oceans are no longer able to absorb the increased concentration of CO 2 in the atmosphere without changes to the acidity levels.
Oxygen in Equilibrium Dissolved Oxygen and Henry's Law Oxygen dissolved in water can come from the atmosphere or as a byproduct of the photosynthesis of aquatic plants.For water in equilibrium with the atmosphere, the concentration is governed by Henry's Law, and K H for O 2 is 769.23. The concentration of oxygen in water is crucial to aquatic animals that depend on dissolved oxygen for respiration. The oceans are a major sink for atmospheric carbon dioxide. However, the oceans are no longer able to absorb the increased concentration of CO 2 in the atmosphere without changes to the acidity levels.
Why Dissolved Oxygen is Important. The dissolved oxygen (DO) is oxygen that is dissolved in water. The oxygen dissolves by diffusion from the surrounding air; aeration of water that has tumbled over falls and rapids; and as a waste product of photosynthesis. An simplified formula is given below: Adequate dissolved oxygen is necessary for good water quality. Oxygen is a necessary element to all forms of life. Natural stream purification processes require adequate oxygen levels in order to provide for aerobic life forms. As dissolved oxygen levels in water drop below 5.0 mg/l, aquatic life is put under stress.
Interactive: Carbon cycle. Carbon dioxide is one of the most important gases that dissolve in the ocean. Some of it stays as dissolved gas, but most reacts with the water to form carbonic acid or reacts with carbonates already in the water to form bicarbonates. This removes dissolved carbon dioxide from the water. Some of the properties of seawater affect how much gas can be dissolved in it: 1  Cold water holds more gas than warm water. 2  Seawater with low salinity holds more gas than high salinity water. 3  Deep water, which has a high pressure, holds more gas than shallow water.
1 To understand why certain solids, liquids, and gases dissolve in water, we need to look at water on the molecular level. 2  Because of the way the oxygen atom and the hydrogen atoms are bonded together in the water molecule, there is a slight negative charge near the oxygen and a slight positive charge near the hydrogens. Water dissolves carbon dioxide. 1  Gases, like solids and liquids, are also able to dissolve in water. 2  The dissolving of a gas like CO 2, shown here, depends on the interaction between water molecules and the gas molecules.
Why Dissolved Oxygen is Important. Dissolved oxygen analysis measures the amount of gaseous oxygen (O2) dissolved in an aqueous solution. Oxygen gets into water by diffusion from the surrounding air, by aeration (rapid movement), and as a waste product of photosynthesis. 
1 Gases can dissolve in water. 2  The dissolving of a gas in water depends on the interaction between the molecules of the gas and the water molecules. 3  The amount of gas that can be dissolved in water depends on the temperature of the water. 4  More gas can dissolve in cold water than in hot water. CO2 is soluble because water molecules are attracted to these polar areas. The bond between carbon and oxygen is not as polar as the bond between hydrogen and oxygen, but it is polar enough that carbon dioxide can dissolve in water. Project the image CO2 Dissolved in Water. Explain that in carbonated water, molecules of carbon dioxide are thoroughly mixed and dissolved in
1 Gases, like solids and liquids, are also able to dissolve in water. 2  The dissolving of a gas like CO 2, shown here, depends on the interaction between water molecules and the gas molecules. 3  The positive and negative areas on water molecules are attracted to the oppositely charged areas of the carbon dioxide molecules. Water dissolves carbon dioxide. 1  Gases, like solids and liquids, are also able to dissolve in water. 2  The dissolving of a gas like CO 2, shown here, depends on the interaction between water molecules and the gas molecules.