Total recovery from rotator cuff surgery can take up to about six months, but it will take about 12 months for you to feel completely happy with your outcome. While pain relief during recovery is predictable, function and range are not always as predictable.
Depends on the severity of the tear. It can be a month to 6 months to a year if it's completely severed. it will take 6 weeks with proper therapy Depends on the ligament a … nd whether or not blood supply to the damaged ligament was lost.
I'm told that everyones body heals at it own pace. Two years ago my husband tore his rotator cuff it took about 6 months for him to stop feeling pain. L-lysine amino acid is great for speeding up the healing process and Bio Freez help with the pain also a cold press to reduce swelling every 2 to three hours.
Most of your pain should subside in a period over 8-12 weeks...however, the rotator cuff has a very poor blood supply and it may give you trouble for 6 months to a year.
What a lot of athletes really want to know is when they can get back in the game after a rotator cuff tear. But it's hard to say. Recovery time depends on how serious the tear is. It may take weeks or months. People heal at different rates. Obviously, if you need surgery, recovery will take longer.
Recovery can take 3 to 6 months, depending on the size of the tear and other factors. You may have to wear a sling for 4 to 6 weeks after surgery. Pain is usually managed with medicines.
A small camera is inserted into the shoulder to see and repair the rotator cuff tear. If the tear is very large or involves more than one tendon, a small incision may be needed. Following arthroscopy, the arm will likely be in a sling for two to three weeks and physical therapy will be prescribed.
A torn rotator cuff takes at least 6-8 months to fully recover from. My father had this surgery in Feb 2008 and was not fully recovered until late Sept/early Oct. A torn bicep … tendon takes 4-5 months to get over. I tore mine in June 2008 and was fully recovered in November 2008.
Have surgery to repair the rotator cuff tear, if your doctor determines you need it. The severity of the tear will dictate how much your doctor will be able to fix. Wear an immobilizer or a sling for a couple of weeks to keep the shoulder in one position.