Makers of PGPR (see source link below) such as Danisco and Palsgaard indicate that PGPR can be used to replace the more expensive cocoa butter as an ingredient in chocolate. Palsgaard’s website asserts, “ Cocoa butter is an expensive raw material for chocolate manufacturers. PGPR is an additive used in place of cocoa butter, as cocoa butter is EXPENSIVE and a KEY ingredient of chocolate (there’s REALLY ONLY 4)!! And companies want to make MASS amounts of chocolate at a low cost so that they can make $$$… So, think of PGPR as a “filler” of sorts.
Polyglycerol polyricinoleate (PGPR), E 476, is an emulsifier made in a three-step process from glycerol and fatty acids (usually castor bean derived). PGPR is a yellowish, viscous liquid composed of poly glycerol esters of polycondensed fatty acids from castor oil. It may also be polyglycerol esters of dimerized fatty acids of soybean oil. PGPR is strongly lipophilic, soluble in fats and oils, and insoluble in water and ethyl alcohol. In chocolates, it is used as a viscosity-reducing agent. It is virtually always paired with lecithin or another plastic viscosity-reducing agent
Polyglycerol polyricinoleate (PGPR) is described as a yellowish glutinous liquid, used in low-quality chocolate brands such as Hershey's, Nestle, and Mars. It'﻿s made of polyglycerol esters from castor beans. PGPR primarily has a good water-binding property. It is insoluble in ethanol and cold water, but is soluble in hot grease. Pros and Cons of PGPR. The role of PGPR is to replace cocoa butter and still have the same taste of chocolate, however some of the flavor is lost.
PGPR or Polyglycerol Polyricinoleate is a chocolate emulsifier that saves you money by reducing the viscosity of chocolate and compounds. Unique Palsgaard® PGPR 4150 is the most functional PGPR on the market and the best solution for demanding applications such as enrobing and very low fat formulations, and processes where you need precise control over flow properties and quality.
PGPR. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria are bacteria that colonize plant roots, and in doing so, they promote plant growth and/or reduce disease or insect damage. There has been much research interest in PGPR and there is now an increasing number of PGPR being commercialized for crops. 
Polyglycerol Polyricinoleate (PGPR) is an emulsifier made from castor beans. It reduces the viscosity of chocolate so it will allow the chocolate to melt faster while in your mouth. It is also used to lower the fat content in chocolate. [1]. 
Makers of PGPR (see source link below) such as Danisco and Palsgaard indicate PGPR can be used to replace the traditional but more expensive cocoa butter as an ingredient in chocolate. Palsgaard’s website asserts, “Cocoa butter is an expensive raw material for chocolate manufacturers. 
In which case, pucker up for a mouthful of PGPR. PGPR, which began showing up on the ingredient list of drugstore chocolate several years ago, is short for polyglycerol polyricinoleate, a goopy yellowish liquid made from castor beans that reduces the viscosity of chocolate. A statement regarding PGPR on that company’s website reads, “Cocoa butter is an expensive raw material for chocolate manufacturers. By using Palsgaard4150 (PGPR) the chocolate recipe has lower costs in terms of less cocoa butter.”.
Makers of PGPR (see source link below) such as Danisco and Palsgaard indicate that PGPR can be used to replace the more expensive cocoa butter as an ingredient in chocolate. Palsgaard’s website asserts, “ Cocoa butter is an expensive raw material for chocolate manufacturers. All Hershey’s products on Long Island have the PGPR in it. Except the syrup as I’ve seen so far, but that has high fructose corn syrup, which I try not to use in my home, either. The largest problem I see with this is that the companies substituted the item without informing the public.