It's the name that it calls you when it recognizes you, like Hello John. Thanks. I've been wondering the same thing. My gamertag is KIDD VIDD, but my Xbox One calls me KIDD, which isn't bad, especially since some real life friends call me that, but I'd prefer if my Xbox One called me by my real name. ---. Xbox LIVE Gamertag: KIDD VIDD. I want to know if the name it calls you has to pass a filter. I want to put a dirty word for my wife's name because we think its funny that the XBOne always says hi to her when she walks in while i'm playing a game and it will be doubly funny if it calls her a dirty name. ---. 
1 On your Xbox 360 console, go to social, and then select Sign In or Out. 2  Select your profile to sign in. 3  Scroll right to settings and select Profile. 4  Select Edit Profile. 5  Select Gamertag. 6  Select Enter New Gamertag. 7  Type a new gamertag (up to 15 characters), and then select Done. Change your gamertag on Xbox 360. 1  On your Xbox 360 console, go to social, and then select Sign In or Out. 2  Select your profile to sign in. 3  Scroll right to settings and select Profile.
Note Xbox One may not be available in all locales. 1  On your Xbox One Wireless Controller, press the Xbox button to return to Home. 2  At the top of the Home screen, next to Sign in, select your profile. 3  If you're not already signed in, select Choose this person to sign in. 4  Press the Menu button, then select Settings. Change your gamertag on Xbox 360. 1  On your Xbox 360 console, go to social, and then select Sign In or Out. 2  Select your profile to sign in. 3  Scroll right to settings and select Profile.
Instructions. Turn on your Xbox 360 and access the dashboard. If your game boots up, press the Xbox guide button then press the “Y” button to access the dashboard. Log into Xbox Live by pressing the Xbox guide button and selecting your profile. Go to “My Xbox” and then select “Edit Profile.” This is where you can edit your avatar, motto and change your gamertag. Select “Gamertag” from the list of options. This will open a set of prompts that will allow you to change your gamertag. 
So if you are not happy with your Gamertag and want to change it, but you dont have the money or you just dont want to pay, then keep reading! 1. Go into a Live Chat with Microsoft Support (http://support.xbox.com/en-US/contact-us). 2. Use these options: - Product: Xbox LIVE. - Category: Other. 3. Then hit Start Chat. 
1 Press the Menu button, then select Settings. 2  Select About me. 3  Select Customize profile, then select Change gamertag. 4  Select an available gamertag or select Make my own to create your own gamertag. 5  When you're finished, select Enter, then select Sounds good. Change your gamertag on Xbox 360. 1  On your Xbox 360 console, go to social, and then select Sign In or Out. 2  Select your profile to sign in. 3  Scroll right to settings and select Profile.
If you want to create a new profile, select Add new at the bottom left. 3. Sign in with your Microsoft account. If you have an Xbox Live membership, or an email address ending in @outlook.com, then you have a Microsoft account. Sign in with the email associated with that account. Once you've got your Xbox One plugged in and running, the next step is to create a user profile. This will allow you to save your preferences, participate in Xbox Live, store saved game data to the cloud and more. Here's how to set up your Xbox One profile. 1. Click the bar on the upper left of the home screen.
1 On your Xbox One Wireless Controller, press the Xbox button to return to Home. 2  At the top of the Home screen, next to Sign in, select your profile. 3  If you're not already signed in, select Choose this person to sign in. 4  Press the Menu button, then select Settings. Change your gamertag on Xbox 360. 1  On your Xbox 360 console, go to social, and then select Sign In or Out. 2  Select your profile to sign in. 3  Scroll right to settings and select Profile.
Go to Xbox.com Sign in Go to my account Under the section safety click change my gamertag. Go to Xbox.com. Sign in. Go to my account. Under the section safety click change my gamertag. this is NOT the answer. The only thing you get is a link to a tutorial on how to change the gamer tag on an xbox console. You can go through the link to know how to do so. How to change your Xbox LIVE gamertag. http://support.xbox.com/en-US/billing-and-subscriptions/account-management/change-xbox-live-gamertag. If you have any further queries related to the issue, then I would suggest you to post the query on Xbox support forums.