Meaning of Mannie. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Mannie means-god is with us.The name Mannie originated as an Spanish name. The name Mannie is most often used as a boy name or male name. Spanish Name Meaning-god is with us. Origin-Spain
Hebrew Meaning: The name Manny is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Manny is: God is with us; god is among us. Spanish Meaning: The name Manny is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Manny is: God is with us. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 22. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independenc
[ 2 syll. man-nie, ma-nn-ie ] The baby boy name Mannie is pronounced as M AE Niy †. Mannie is largely used in the English language. It is derived from Germanic and Hebrew origins. Mannie is an English diminutive of the name Manfred (Dutch, English, German, and Polish). Mannie is also an English diminutive of the name Emmanuel (French and German) as well as an English diminutive of the name Manuel (English, German, Portuguese, and Spanish)
Spanish Meaning: The name Mannie is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Mannie is: God is with us'. American Meaning: The name Mannie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Mannie is: God is with us'. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated
Mannie /man-nie/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Hebrew and Spanish origin, and the meaning of Mannie is God is with us; life. Mannie is an alternate spelling of Emmanuel (Hebrew). Mannie is also a variant of Hyman (Hebrew): anglicized variant of Chaim. Mannie is also used as a variant of Manuel (Spanish, Hebrew). Mannie is an uncommonly occurring given name for men but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#42217 out of 150436, Top 28%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Mannie for boys. Mannie reached its top position of #872 in the U.S. then, but is not listed at the moment.
Origin of the name Emmanuel: Cognate of the Hebrew Immanuel, a name derived from 'immānūēl (God is with us). The name was used in the biblical Old Testament by the prophet Isaiah in reference to the promised Messiah, and in the New Testament as another name for Jesus Christ. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book. 
Manny /man-ny/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Manny's roots are Hebrew, Old English and Spanish, and the meaning of the name Manny is life; peddler, trader; God is with us. Manny is an alternate form of Chaim (Hebrew): form of Hyman. 