Radium (Ra) is a naturally occurring radioactive element that is present in varying amounts in rocks and soil within the earth’s crust. Small amounts of radium also can be found in groundwater supplies. Radium can be present in several forms, called isotopes. 
Radium is a highly radioactive chemical element classified among the alkaline earth metals of the periodic table of elements. This element has several research uses, and historically it was used in a wide range of industries. Radium has an atomic number of 88, and it is identified with the symbol Ra on the periodic table of elements. Radium was previously used commercially, creating opportunities for accidental exposure. Antique watches may contain radium.
Radium was discovered in 1898 by Marie and Pierre Curie in pitchblende (or uraninite) from North Bohemia. The element was isolated in 1911 by Mme. Curie and Debierne by the electrolysis of a solution of pure radium chloride, employing a mercury cathode. 
History. Radium was discovered in 1898 by Madame Curie in the pitchblende or uraninite of North Bohemia, where it occurs. There is about 1 g of radium in 7 tons of pitchblende. The element was isolated in 1911 by Mme. 
History and Uses: Radium was discovered by Marie Sklodowska Curie, a Polish chemist, and Pierre Curie, a French chemist, in 1898. Marie Curie obtained radium from pitchblende, a material that contains uranium, after noticing that unrefined pitchblende was more radioactive than the uranium that was separated from it. Radium's most stable isotope, radium-226, has a half-life of about 1600 years. It decays into radon -222 through alpha decay or into lead -212 by ejecting a carbon -14 nucleus. The Curie, a unit used to describe the activity of a radioactive substance, is based on radium-226.
Discovery of Radium. Radium was discovered in 1898 in Paris, by Marie S. Curie and her husband Pierre in pitchblende (mainly uranium dioxide, UO 2). If pitchblende contains 50 percent uranium oxides, about eight tons of it is needed to extract 1 gram of radium. 
Radium, in the form of radium chloride, was discovered by Marie Curie and Pierre Curie in 1898. They extracted the radium compound from uraninite and published the discovery at the French Academy of Sciences five days later. All isotopes of radium are highly radioactive, with the most stable isotope being radium-226, which has a half-life of 1600 years and decays into radon gas. When radium decays, ionizing radiation is a product, which can excite fluorescent chemicals and cause radioluminescence
Radium is a chemical element with symbol Ra and atomic number 88. It is the sixth element in group 2 of the periodic table, also known as the alkaline earth metals. All isotopes of radium are highly radioactive, with the most stable isotope being radium-226, which has a half-life of 1600 years and decays into radon gas. When radium decays, ionizing radiation is a product, which can excite fluorescent chemicals and cause radioluminescence
Radium is Latin for radius, or ray. The element was discovered in 1898 by Marie and Pierre Curie in North Bohemia, where it occurs naturally in the pitchblende or uranite. It was first isolate by Marie Curie through the electrolysis of a radium chloride solution, using a mercury cathode. 