The cubic meter, symbol: m³, is the SI derived unit of volume. It is the volume of a cube with edges one meter in length. That means: 1 meter in length, 1 meter in width, and 1 meter in height. 
Cubic meters to cubic feet (m3 to ft3) conversion table shows the most common values for the quick reference. Alternatively, you may use the converter below to convert any other values. 1 Cubic Meter = 35.3146667 Cubic Feet. Cubic meter is a metric unit and defined as a cube with sides are one meter in length. Spelled as cubic metre in europe. The abbreviation is m 3 . Cubic foot is an imperial, u.s. customary unit and defined as a cube with sides are one foot in length
The litre (International spelling) or liter (American spelling) (SI symbols L or l, commonly abbreviated as ltr) is an SI accepted metric system unit of volume equal to 1 cubic decimetre (dm 3), 1,000 cubic centimetres (cm 3) or 1/1,000 cubic metre. 
The answer is 0.001. We assume you are converting between cubic metre and liter. You can view more details on each measurement unit: meters cubed or liter. The SI derived unit for volume is the cubic meter. 1 cubic meter is equal to 1000 liter. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between cubic meters and liters. The cubic metre (symbol m) is the SI derived unit of volume. It is the volume of a cube with edges one metre in length. Older equivalents were the stere and the kilolitre.
The cubic metre (in British English and international spelling as used by the International Bureau of Weights and Measures) or cubic meter (in American English) is the SI derived unit of volume. Its SI symbol is m3. It is the volume of a cube with edges one metre in length. An alternative name, which allowed a different usage with metric prefixes, was the stere, stère still sometimes used for dry (measure for, instance in reference to). Wood another alternative, name no longer widely, used was the. kilolitre Its SI symbol is m3. It is the volume of a cube with edges one metre in length. An alternative name, which allowed a different usage with metric prefixes, was the stere, stère still sometimes used for dry (measure for, instance in reference to). wood
In the opposite sense, 1 m 3 is equal to 0.000000001 kilometer cubed (10 -9 km 3). When converting between cubic meters and non-SI units of volume such as cubic inches (cu in) or cubic miles (cu mi), the linear-unit conversion factor must be cubed. For example, one meter is approximately 39.37 inches (39.37 in); therefore 1 m 3 = 39.37 3 = 6.102 x 10 4 cu in (approximately). The symbol for cubic meters is m 3. Less formally, cubic meter is sometimes abbreviated cu m. When calculating volume, it is important to realize that volume is proportional to the cube of the linear dimension.
The cubic metre (symbol m) is the SI derived unit of volume. It is the volume of a cube with edges one metre in length. Older equivalents were the stere and the kilolitre. 
The cubic meter is the unit of volume in the International System of Units. The symbol for cubic meters is m 3. Less formally, cubic meter is sometimes abbreviated cu m. When calculating volume, it is important to realize that volume is proportional to the cube of the linear dimension.
Alternatively, you may use the converter below to convert any other values. 1 Cubic Meter = 264.172052 Gallons [Fluid, US]. 1 Cubic Meter = 227.0207445 Gallons [Dry, US]. 1 Cubic Meter = 219.9692483 Gallons [UK]. Cubic meter is a metric unit and defined as a cube with sides are one meter in length. Spelled as cubic metre in europe. The abbreviation is m 3 . Gallon is an imperial and us customary volume unit
The meter cubed per kilogram (symbolized m 3 /kg) is the standard unit of specific volume in the International System (SI). Part of the IT standards and organizations glossary: The meter cubed per kilogram (symbolized m 3 /kg) is the standard unit of specific volume in the International System (SI). It is expressed directly in base SI units, and cannot be further reduced. Specific volume is the reciprocal of density.