View rooms and rates. Close. From. Description. Hotel’s location in Oslo city centre is near shops and transport. The city’s vibrant main street, Karl Johans gate, and the popular Aker Brygge shopping district are just steps from this hotel’s location in Oslo city centre. The central train station is only a 5-minute walk from the hotel, and Gardermoen International Airport is less than 25 minutes away by express train. 
How to travel between the city centre and Oslo Airport (OSL). Oslo Airport is located at Gardermoen, 47 km northeast of Oslo. IATA airport code: OSL. 1  See the location of Oslo Airport in a map. 2  More information about Oslo Airport. You can travel to and from Oslo Airport at Gardermoen by bus, train, taxi or car: The Flytoget Airport Express Train departs from Oslo S (Oslo Central Station) every 10 or 20 minutes. Duration to the airport is 19 minutes.
Located around 48 km / 30 miles to the north-east of Oslo city centre, Oslo Gardermoen Airport (OSL) is the gateway to the Norwegian capital and is surrounded by the suburbs of Gardermoen, Jessheim, Maura, Nannestad and Ullensaker. Popular services are provided by Norwegian, Scandinavian and Sterling airlines. Oslo Gardermoen Airport (OSL) is well served by road and rail, with the E6 connecting the airport with Oslo city centre, as well as a convenient rail connection.
1 Map showing the location of the airports. 2  Flytoget Airport Express Train 2Photo: Flytoget To/from Oslo Airport Gardermoen You can travel to and from Oslo Airport (OSL) by bus, train, taxi or car. 3  The airport is located 47 km northeast of Oslo. How to get to and from the airports near Oslo; Gardermoen, Torp and Rygge. 1  More information on Oslo Airport, Torp and Rygge. 2  Map showing the location of the airports. 3
Discover the heart of Norway from this hotel in Oslo city center. Located only steps from the Central Railway Station, this hotel in Oslo city center affords easy access to the Oslo Airport Gardermoen via the Airport Express Train, which runs every 10 minutes. Guests can also take advantage of train service to Rygge Airport Moss and Torp Airport Sandefjord. From Oslo Airport Gardermoen (OSL). Whether arriving via domestic or international flight, the most convenient travel to the hotel is the Airport Express Train, which departs Oslo Airport Gardermoen every 10 minutes during peak travel times.
1 More information on Oslo Airport, Torp and Rygge. 2  Map showing the location of the airports. 3  Flytoget Airport Express Train 2Photo: Flytoget To/from Oslo Airport Gardermoen You can travel to and from Oslo Airport (OSL) by bus, train, taxi or car. 4  The airport is located 47 km northeast of Oslo. How to get to and from the airports near Oslo; Gardermoen, Torp and Rygge. 1 
The airport is connected to the city center by the high-speed railway Gardermoen Line served by mainline trains and Flytoget. The ground facilities are owned by Oslo Lufthavn AS, a subsidiary of the state-owned Avinor. The airport is located 19 nautical miles (35 km; 22 mi) northeast of Oslo, at Gardermoen in the municipality of Ullensaker, in Akershus county. It has two parallel roughly north–south runways measuring 3,600 metres (11,811 ft) and 2,950 metres (9,678 ft) and 71 aircraft stands, of which 34 have jet bridges.