1 Graves disease: An autoimmune condition in which the thyroid is overstimulated, causing hyperthyroidism. 2  Thyroid cancer: An uncommon form of cancer, thyroid cancer is usually curable. 3  Surgery, radiation, and hormone treatments may be used to treat thyroid cancer. 1 Thyroid cancer: An uncommon form of cancer, thyroid cancer is usually curable. 2  Surgery, radiation, and hormone treatments may be used to treat thyroid cancer. 3  Thyroid nodule: A small abnormal mass or lump in the thyroid gland.
Thyroid Disease Symptoms and Signs. Thyroid disease is a common problem that can cause symptoms because of over-or under-function of the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is an essential organ for producing thyroid hormones, which maintain are body metabolism. The thyroid gland is located in the front of the neck below the Adam's apple
Having thyroid hormone levels that are too high (overactive thyroid gland). Sometimes the thyroid gland makes too much thyroid hormone, which is called hyperthyroidism. Think of your body as a car and your thyroid as the engine. An overactive thyroid makes your body idle too fast. 
The thyroid is a gland located in the neck. In many cases, little attention is given to the thyroid until the gland begins to malfunction. Located in the front of the neck, the thyroid gland produces hormones that regulate blood pressure, body temperature, heart rate, and the body's metabolism. Children suffering from hyperthyroidism may experience muscular weakness and anxiety
Thyroid cancer is a cancer that starts in the thyroid gland. To understand thyroid cancer, it helps to know about the normal structure and function of the thyroid gland. Other, less common cells in the thyroid gland include immune system cells (lymphocytes) and supportive (stromal) cells. Different cancers develop from each kind of cell. The differences are important because they affect how serious the cancer is and what type of treatment is needed.
Your thyroid is a small gland at the base of your neck that makes thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormone controls many activities in your body, including how fast you burn calories and how fast your heart beats. Diseases of the thyroid cause it to make either too much or too little of the hormone. 
Problems with the thyroid include overactive thyroid, or hyperthyroidism, and underactive thyroid or hypothyroidism. The thyroid gland in the neck makes hormones to help regulate the body's metabolism and a person's growth. 
Through the hormones it produces, the thyroid gland influences almost all of the metabolic processes in your body. Thyroid disorders can range from a small, harmless goiter (enlarged gland) that needs no treatment to life-threatening cancer. The most common thyroid problems involve abnormal production of thyroid hormones. Too much thyroid hormone results in a condition known as hyperthyroidism
The thyroid gland has 2 main types of cells: 1  Follicular cells use iodine from the blood to make thyroid hormones, which help regulate a person’s metabolism. 2  C cells (also called parafollicular cells) make calcitonin, a hormone that helps control how the body uses calcium. Other, less common cells in the thyroid gland include immune system cells (lymphocytes) and supportive (stromal) cells. Different cancers develop from each kind of cell. The differences are important because they affect how serious the cancer is and what type of treatment is needed.
The thyroid gland, or simply the thyroid /ˈθaɪrɔɪd/ , is one of the largest endocrine glands in the body, and consists of two connected lobes. It is found in the neck, below the laryngeal prominence (Adam's apple). The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped organ and is composed of two cone-like lobes or wings, lobus dexter (right lobe) and lobus sinister (left lobe), connected via the isthmus. Each lobe is about 5 cm long, 3 cm wide and 2 cm thick.