AUCUBA japonica 'Picturata'. Aucuba japonica 'Picturata' (formerly 'Aureo-maculata') - Picturata Gold Dust Plant, Japanese Aucuba. 1  Much like Aucuba japonica 'Variegata' in growth habit and culture, except leaves are centered with yellow and dark green edges are spotted with yellow. 2  All plants of this variety are female. 
Printer Friendly Version (PDF). Japanese aucuba (Aucuba japonica) is a handsome broadleaf evergreen shrub used extensively in South Carolina under the canopy of large trees or as a foundation plant in shady corners of the home. It is adapted to all areas of South Carolina. Gold dust aucuba (Aucuba japonica). The plants are dioecious (that is, aucuba shrubs are either male or female). So, to ensure good fruit production, plant mostly females with an occasional male nearby. The ideal soil is moist, high in organic matter and well-drained, although it will tolerate almost any soil condition.
Aucuba japonica, vibrant evergreen shade shrub Now is the time of the illuminated woods, when every leaf glows like a tiny lamp.. 
Aucuba is a genus of three to ten species of flowering plants, now placed in the family Garryaceae, although formerly classified in the Aucubaceae or Cornaceae. Aucuba species are native to eastern Asia, from the eastern Himalayas east to China, Korea, and Japan. The name is a latinization of Japanese Aokiba. They are evergreen shrubs or small trees 2-13 m tall, similar in appearance to the laurels of the genus Laurus, having glossy, leathery leaves, and are among the shrubs that are mistakenly called laurels in gardens. 
Japanese aucuba (Aucuba japonica) is an evergreen shrub that grows 6 to 10 feet tall with colorful, green and yellow-gold leaves as much as 8 inches long. 
Aucuba japonica-Gold Dust AucubaCornaceae. Aucuba japonica or Gold Dust Aucuba is an attractive broadleaf evergreen shrub native to eastern Asia and Japan. They are slow to moderate growers and will reach a height of 4-12 feet (1.2-3.7 m) with a spread of 4-6 feet (1.2-1.8 m). 
Overview: The Japanese aucuba is an evergreen shrub that is often grown for its variegated foliage, though there are also varieties with solid green leaves. Each leaf is peppered with gold spots, inspiring the alternate common name of the gold dust plant. 
Aucuba japonica. This easy, super-drought-tolerant, adaptable evergreen for sun or shade earns high marks as a hero of climate change. It looks great after the worst drought in decades — with no help from this gardener. And just imagine how it brightens even the gloomiest spot, and even in the gloomiest months. 
View/Post Comments. Staten Island Advance/Frank J. Johns Aucuba is a resilient shrub that can be grown in full sun, part sun or full shade. Aucuba Japonica, Japanese laurel, is an Asian shrub valued for its tolerance of heavy shade and large, often colorful evergreen leaves. The female Aucuba produces clusters of large berries that turn red in fall.
Genus: Aucuba. The dense, glossy foliage of this evergreen plant is splattered with yellow. Gold-dust plant can be planted near nearby tree roots, and it responds well to pruning. Combine it with yellow-blooming or variegated plants for appealing color harmonies.