The dew point is associated with relative humidity. A high relative humidity implies that the dew point is closer to the current air temperature. Relative humidity of 100% indicates the dew point is equal to the current temperature and that the air is maximally saturated with water. 
Relative humidity (abbreviated RH) is the ratio of the partial pressure of water vapor to the equilibrium vapor pressure of water at the same temperature. Relative humidity depends on temperature and the pressure of the system of interest. 
The amount of water vapor in the air at any given time is usually less than that required to saturate the air. The relative humidity is the percent of saturation humidity, generally calculated in relation to saturated vapor density. The most common units for vapor density are gm/m 3. For example, if the actual vapor density is 10 g/m 3 at 20°C compared to the saturation vapor density at that temperature of 17.3 g/m 3, then the relative humidity is. If the air is gradually cooled while maintaining the moisture content constant, the relative humidity will rise until it reaches 100%. This temperature, at which the moisture content in the air will saturate the air, is called the dew point.
* Relative humidity = actual vapor pressure/saturation vapor pressure x 100%. * Relative humidity = actual mixing ratio/ saturation mixing ratio x 100%. Although adding or removing water vapor from the air will bring about changes in relative humidity, this is not the only way that such changes can occur. A change in temperature of the air can also change the relative humidity. Dew Point is the temperature to which a parcel of air must be cooled, at constant pressure and water vapor content, for saturation to occur. Dew point is determined with respect to a flat surface of water. 
Yes. Relative humidity is the amount of water vapor actually in the air compared to the amount that could be in the air (saturation point) at the exisiting temperature. So, if … the temperature of the air changes and the amount of water vapor in it does not, the relative humidity will be different. But, if the temperature of the air changes and so does the amount of water vapor in it, then the relative humidity could be the same as before the temperature change.
The relative humidity of an air-water mixture is defined as the ratio of the partial pressure of water vapor (H 2 O) in the mixture to the saturated vapor pressure of water at a given temperature. Thus the relative humidity of air is a function of both water content and temperature. 
Background. Relative humidity is a measure of the water vapour content of the air at a given temperature. The amount of moisture in the air is compared with the maximum amount that the air could contain at the same temperature and expressed as a percentage. The graph to the right shows the hourly temperature (°C) and relative humidity (%) readings for Hamilton for the last week of May.
At 40° air temperature, the parcel is saturated and will hold no more molecules of water vapor. The relative humidity is 100 percent. If the temperature of that air parcel is raised by 20°, it will hold about twice as many water molecules to reach saturation. Thus, the new relative humidity is now 48 percent. If the temperature is raised another 20°, it will again double its capacity to hold water vapor molecules. Relative humidity decreases as temperature increases. The importance of air temperature to moisture is obvious. At 80°, the air has a relatively low humidity and is relatively dry. As it cools, the humidity increases, reaching its saturation point at 40°.
High relative humidity can cause mold and metal corrosion and low relative humidity can cause materials to become brittle. It is important to maintain a relative humidity between 25% and 65% as humidity above 65% will cause mold to grow, and lower than 25% will cause artifacts to lose structurally important water. Temperature is a major factor in the speed of natural aging. Materials last longer when kept as low temperatures. 