Characteristics of Dyslexia. Characteristics of students with dyslexia change over time depending on the grade level and/or state of reading (as described by Jeanne Chall in her book, ) that the individual has reached. The following are some signs of dyslexia at different grade levels. Students with dyslexia will show some of the following characteristics: 1  difficulties with learning sound/symbol correspondences. 2  confusion of visually similar letters (b/d/p, w/m, h/n, f/t). 3  confusion of auditorily similar letters (d/t, b/p, f/v).
Characteristics of dyslexia. The Australian Dyslexic Association (ADA) cautions that it is important to keep in mind that dyslexia occurs on a continuum from mild to severe and no two learners with dyslexia are the same. Indicators in teacher behaviour. For a more extensive list of characteristics in primary school children go to Primary Hints and Tips on the British Dyslexic Association (BDA) website. A list of positive traits displayed by people with dyslexia can be found on the Living with Dyslexia page of this website.
Characteristics. Most people with Dyslexia exhibit many different traits and behaviors. They can vary from day-to-day or minute-to-minute. The most consistent about dyslexia is their inconsistency. Symptoms will increase with confusion, emotional behavior or time pressure constraints. General:
Dyslexia is a disorder characterised by problems with the visual notation of speech, which in most languages of European origin are problems with alphabet writing systems which have a phonetic construction. 
Common myths. There are some common myths concerning the characteristics of dyslexia, as identified by SPELD QLD Inc and Common Misconceptions About Dyslexia | eHow.com.Dyslexia is a general term for any learning difficulty Dyslexia is a specific learning disability, affecting reading and written language. Indicators in teacher behaviour. For a more extensive list of characteristics in primary school children go to Primary Hints and Tips on the British Dyslexic Association (BDA) website. A list of positive traits displayed by people with dyslexia can be found on the Living with Dyslexia page of this website.
Reading: Difficulty reading is one of the main characteristics of dyslexia. Students may have trouble distinguishing different sounds in words, especially if words sound similar. They may also struggle with the following reading skills: 1  Problems rhyming words. 2  Difficulty breaking words down into syllables. Dyslexia is a learning disability which impacts a person's abilities in reading and spelling. Individuals with dyslexia usually have a discrepancy between their abilities and their achievement. They are able to learn, but their brains process information differently. Some of the main characteristics of dyslexia include:
Dyslexia is a language processing disorder which is neurological in origin. The characteristics of dyslexia show themselves in difficulty with spoken and written information. Characteristics of dyslexia may vary from mild to severe. They may be debilitating enough to qualify as learning disability in public schools. But many school districts do not use dyslexia as a term. Problem with following instructions is another of the characteristics of dyslexia, and they also find it difficult to grasp synonyms, homonyms, idioms, rhymes, and symbolic speech such as metaphors and similes. Characteristics of dyslexia also include difficulty with spelling.
Dyslexia, also known as reading disorder, is a learning disability characterized by trouble with reading despite normal intelligence. Different people are affected to varying degrees. 