Chayote (Sechium edule) is an edible plant belonging to the gourd family Cucurbitaceae, along with melons, cucumbers and squash. The chayote vine can be grown on the ground, but as a climbing plant, it will grow onto anything, and can easily rise as high as 12 meters when support is provided. It has heart-shaped leaves, 10–25 cm wide and tendrils on the stem.
Definition of CHAYOTE. : the pear-shaped fruit of a West Indian annual vine (Sechium edule) of the gourd family that is widely cultivated as a vegetable; also: the plant —called also chayote squash, christophene, mirliton. ADVERTISEMENT. Spanish, from Nahuatl chayohtli
Chayote is often cooked with seasoning due to its mild flavor. Chayote is a gourd plant, eaten in similar fashion to the summer squash, cucumbers and melons. You can add raw chayote to salads or cook them in meat or vegetarian dishes. 
Chayote, also known as vegetable pear, is a delicious member of the squash family. Mike shows the many ways you can enjoy this crunchy and healthy vegetable. 1  Education. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Chayote is a tropical trailing vine which produces fruits, which are treated more like vegetables than true fruits. The fruits are also known as chayote, or they may be called christophine, choko, Mexican squash, or vegetable pears, depending on the region. Additionally, the tuberous part of the chayote root is edible. 
Chayote squash is available year-round, with peak harvests in the fall and occasionally late spring. The Chayote squash, botanically known as Sechium edule, is the edible fruit of a tropical perennial vine plant which is a member of the Cucurbitaceae family. Although the most commercially known varieties are lime green and pear shaped, Chayote squashes have many different guises. Chayote squash can be eaten both raw and cooked and at various stages of maturity. When young they are ideal sliced or shredded in salads and slaws along with ingredients such as citrus, cabbage, arugula and fresh herbs.
Like other members of the gourd family, such as cucumbers, melons, and squash, chayote has a sprawling habit, and it should only be planted if there is plenty of room in the garden. The chayote vine can be grown on the ground, but as a climbing plant, it will grow onto anything, and can easily rise as high as 12 meters when support is provided. It has heart-shaped leaves, 10–25 cm wide and tendrils on the stem.
Chayotes (pronounced chahy-oh-tee) are a light green, pear shaped fruit with a single, large pit and edible flesh and skin. The flesh of the chayote is mild in flavor and has a texture somewhere between a potato and cucumber. Chayotes are native to Mexico but are now cultivated in warm climates world wide. Although not as popular as the fruit, the root and leaves of the chayote plant are also edible. The root can be prepared in a similar manner to potatoes and the leaves can be cooked like mustard or collard greens.
Issue 94. The unusual-looking vegetable known as chayote (chah-YO-tay) adds a lovely, lightly crunchy texture to Sue Torres' Grilled Vegetable Tacos. Also known as a mirliton or vegetable pear, it’s part of the gourd family, which includes cucumbers, squashes, and melons. Chayotes have a mild cucumber-like flavor and can be prepared in any way you might use summer squash, raw or cooked. The large center seed is edible, though you might prefer to remove it