The total costs per year for children with ASD in the United States were estimated to be between $11.5 billion - $60.9 billion (2011 US dollars). This significant economic burden represents a variety of direct and in-direct costs, from medical care to special education to lost parental productivity. 1 On average, medical expenditures for children and adolescents with ASD were 4.1–6.2 times greater than for those without ASD. 2  Differences in median expenditures ranged from $2,240 to $3,360 per year with median expenditures 8.4–9.5 times greater.
The spotlight shining on autism as a result has opened opportunities for the nation to consider how to serve families facing a lifetime of supports for their children. In June 2014, researchers estimated the lifetime cost of caring for a child with autism is as great as $2.4 million. The diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder is applied based on analysis of all behaviors and their severity. In March 2014, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued their ADDM autism prevalence report.
Boston, MA – It can cost about $3.2 million to take care of an autistic person over his or her lifetime. Caring for all people with autism over their lifetimes costs an estimated $35 billion per year. Those figures are part of the findings in the first study to comprehensively survey and document the costs of autism to U.S. society. It also captures the value of lost productivity for an autistic person’s parents. Examples include loss of income due to reduced work hours or not working altogether. Ganz estimates that annual indirect costs for autistic individuals and their parents range from more than $39,000 to nearly $130,000.
According to the Council for Affordable Health Insurance, an autism mandate increases the cost of health insurance by about 1 percent. However, if the incidence of autism continues to increase and as more services are covered, the cost of insurance may increase 1 to 3 percent. Coverage for treatment of autism spectrum disorders may be limited to a maximum benefit for $50,000 per year for a child 8 years of age and younger and to $20,000 per year for a child 9 years of age through 19 years of age. Mont. Code Ann.
Indeed: A new study in the medical journal JAMA Pediatrics has pegged the total lifetime cost of supporting an individual with an ASD at an astonishing $1.4 million in the United States. If there is also intellectual disability, the total rises even more, to $2.4 million. But it did not come cheaply. The organization Autism Speaks estimates that it takes around $60,000 a year to support someone with an ASD, Suskind says, adding that treatment for Owen cost about $90,000 a year.
The number of individuals with autism is estimated at more than 3.5 million in the United States and nearly 605,000 in the United Kingdom. The study estimated the national cost of supporting children with autism at $61 billion per year in the US and $4.5 billion per year in the UK. The costs for adults with autism was $175 billion a year in the US and $43 billion in the UK. The bulk of childhood costs are in special education and lost parental income. During adulthood, the highest costs relate to residential care and lack of employment. An estimated 40 percent of individuals with autism also have intellectual disability. * Based on these numbers, the yearly cost to the United States is an estimated $236 billion a year. The findings – published today in JAMA Pediatrics – provide crucial information for service planning and public policy, experts agree.
* The lifetime cost for an individual averages $2.4 million when autism involves intellectual disability and $1.4 million when it does not. An estimated 40 percent of individuals with autism also have intellectual disability. * Based on these numbers, the yearly cost to the United States is an estimated $236 billion a year. The findings – published today in JAMA Pediatrics – provide crucial information for service planning and public policy, experts agree.
1 About 1 in 68 children has been identified with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) according to estimates from CDC's Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring (ADDM) Network. [ 2  Read summary ] [ Read article 3  ]. ASD is reported to occur in all racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic groups. 1 On average, medical expenditures for children and adolescents with ASD were 4.1–6.2 times greater than for those without ASD. 2  Differences in median expenditures ranged from $2,240 to $3,360 per year with median expenditures 8.4–9.5 times greater.