The sulfur-rich foods most commonly associated with foul-smelling flatulence are eggs, meat and cauliflower. Cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, cabbage, kale, mustard greens, collards and Brussels sprouts are also high in sulfur and can cause smelly gas. Dairy Products. Dairy products -- those made from cow's milk -- can sometimes cause foul-smelling flatulence, because many people cannot properly digest lactose, or milk sugar. The condition, known as lactose intolerance, is caused by a lack of the proper enzyme, lactase, to break down the lactose.
A Dr. Lawrence Friedman, MD, Gastroenterology, answered. Bacteria in the gut produce foul-smelling gases when they ferment undigested foods that have not been absorbed in the small intestine. These foods consist mostly of carbohydrates, sugars, and fats. These foods release gases such as methane and hydrogen sulfide, which smells like rotten eggs. The worst odor is related to strong-smelling sulfurs that make up just 1% of flatulence or flatus (gas that escapes from the rectum).
There are times when flatulence becomes smelly. This is because the gas contains hydrogen sulfide coming from foods that are rich in sulfur such as eggs, meat, cabbage, cauliflower and onions, to name just a few. These foods render the foul odor that is likened to the smell of a rotten egg. In fact, more than half of the population gives off foul-smelling gas due to certain types of digestive problems. Sponsored link. People with smelly farts will find relief in knowing that there are things that can be done to address foul-smelling farts, and these are not as complicated as one might think.
Flatulence can be caused due to a wide range of reasons. More often than not, the formation of foul-smelling gas occurs due to the consumption of food items that are difficult to digest. Cutting down on the intake of these food items can certainly prove beneficial. Though the movement of gas in the stomach and intestines may give rise to gurgling sounds in the stomach, or cause one to burp or belch, it is the expulsion of foul-smelling gas from the anus that puts a person in a very awkward situation.
1 Foul-smelling gas is often caused by bacteria in the colon that aids in digestion of foods that were not completely digested in the stomach and small intestines. 2  Infections, diseases and disorders of the GI tract can cause excess gas production. 1 The normal process of digestion produces gasses in the intestinal tract. 2 
Flatulence usually only has a bad smell if it contains gases that smell, such as sulphur. However, it's important to remember it's normal for the gas you pass to sometimes smell a bit. Excessive flatulence can be caused by swallowing more air than usual or eating food that's difficult to digest. 
Fart or flatulence becomes smelly due to a variety of reasons. It is also often associated with a number of unpleasant symptoms. Most people fart, and to some point, they expel smelly gas or flatulence. In fact, more than half of the population gives off foul-smelling gas due to certain types of digestive problems. Sponsored link. People with smelly farts will find relief in knowing that there are things that can be done to address foul-smelling farts, and these are not as complicated as one might think.
Intestinal gas is a normal by-product of digestion, but excessive gas can cause loud, smelly flatulence, which can be both uncomfortable and downright embarrassing. Certain foods tend to increase the levels of intestinal gas, but not all of them cause foul-smelling flatulence. Foods that produce malodorous gas are usually those high in sulfur, which produce a smell similar to rotten eggs. Dairy Products. Dairy products -- those made from cow's milk -- can sometimes cause foul-smelling flatulence, because many people cannot properly digest lactose, or milk sugar. The condition, known as lactose intolerance, is caused by a lack of the proper enzyme, lactase, to break down the lactose.
One of the side effects of all this food trapped in my intestines was unbelievably foul-smelling gas. The food, lacking an exit, would ferment or putrefy in my intestines, mixing in with the blood and pus which was the consequence of my irritated colon. Digestion is, of course, integrated into the rest of the body, and it suffers when our lifestyle does. Periods of high stress, not enough sleep, or and other factors may play a role. Wave foul flatulence goodbye by adopting a healthy raw food diet. Learn about what foods to steer clear of.