Not all dinnerware is created equal, and some materials might not be the best choice for your particular lifestyle. Learning the differences between earthenware, stoneware and ironstone helps buyers make smarter decisions when it comes to choosing the dinnerware that will become a big part of their daily lives. Differences. Stoneware is always heavy and dense by nature, while earthenware can be made very thin and lightweight. Unlike earthenware, stoneware is non-porous and it isn't necessary, that it be glazed to protect its surface.
An ironstone pitcher and washbowl. Ironstone's resistance to chipping made it a popular material for pitchers and other everyday tableware in the 19th century. Ironstone china, ironstone ware or most commonly just ironstone, is a type of vitreous pottery first made in the United Kingdom in the early 19th century. 
The difference between pottery, china, porcelain, ceramic, etc. may seem obvious to many, but to someone new to collecting, and now even newer to selling, I needed to know. Terra cotta is type of pottery usually made without a glaze and of a specific color at a lower temperature. Stoneware is a dinnerware which is commonly called everyday dishes.
Please sign in to vote on this Guide. Dinnerware is made of several substrates, but most often seen is porcelain, stoneware (ceramic), and bone china. With distinct differences between them, they are important to know before purchasing for your home or business. First, vitrification must be explained
Earthenware, is the term used by archiologists when discussing pottery with historical significance. Terra cotta is type of pottery usually made without a glaze and of a specific color at a lower temperature. Stoneware is a dinnerware which is commonly called everyday dishes.
Ironstone. Ironstone is a type of stoneware, though it's made to be somewhat lighter and less dense. Originally, ironstone was created as a stronger alternative to porcelain, and it will withstand the heat of microwave and conventional ovens. Ironstone can even be placed in a dishwasher. Differences. Stoneware is always heavy and dense by nature, while earthenware can be made very thin and lightweight. Unlike earthenware, stoneware is non-porous and it isn't necessary, that it be glazed to protect its surface.
Found This Helpful. Stoneware, earthenware and porcelain are the names of different types of pottery. The clays used to make pottery are sometimes categorized by stoneware, earthenware and porcelain as well. Earthenware is the least expensive and least durable type of pottery made from a lower quality of clay. The result is porous pottery that is not as strong as stoneware or porcelain pottery pieces. Earthenware can be strengthened by glazing. Glazing hardens the surface of the pottery, making it non-porous and allowing earthenware pieces to be used for cooking.
So here, beginning with what is generally considered the most common are some terms you may want to know. Pottery is, like ceramic, a very generic term. It is generally used to refer to items made from common clays. It is often but not exclusively handmade by the artisan, or craftsperson using their hands, molds, or a potter's wheel. It is generally fired at lower temperatures, sometimes as low as 800 degrees. Terra cotta is type of pottery usually made without a glaze and of a specific color at a lower temperature. Stoneware is a dinnerware which is commonly called everyday dishes.
Please sign in to vote on this Guide. Dinnerware is made of several substrates, but most often seen is porcelain, stoneware (ceramic), and bone china. With distinct differences between them, they are important to know before purchasing for your home or business. Porcelain or stoneware pieces are a wise choice for home or business use for durability and versatility. Bone China pieces may be left for special occasions if needed. It is best to consider your usage and budget before purchasing items for your home or business, and make an educated choice for your dinnerware.