Still, chemo is one of the causes of brain problems in some people with cancer. Many of these people have brain function problems that are directly related to cancer or its treatment, and most of these problems do show up on testing. There are also differences in when certain kinds of brain problems happen.
However, chemo brain does not appear to set the stage for Alzheimer's disease in old age. While there are no specific treatments for chemo brain, breast cancer survivors can adopt coping strategies to address its symptoms.
And they have also linked a common form of cancer treatment -- chemotherapy -- to a lower risk for developing Alzheimer's-related dementia.
This does not mean that if you have cancer you won't get [Alzheimer's], but that you may have a decreased risk, depending on the cancer type.. Chemotherapy conferred additional protection against Alzheimer's in most cancers, with the exception of prostate cancers, Frain said. Our findings suggest that some chemotherapies may have a neuroprotective action.
Many people wonder whether there’s a chance that they could get Alzheimer’s disease from chemotherapy. There is no evidence of this happening in any direct sense. Chemotherapy does not appear to cause the same biochemical changes in the brain that are found in Alzheimer’s disease.
In that case, investigators identified an inverse relationship between cancer and Alzheimer's disease, in which having cancer appeared to lower the risk for Alzheimer's by 35 percent, while having the progressive brain disease lowered the risk for cancer by 43 percent.
Patients may present in a confused state, which can progress quickly to dementia. The chemotherapy drugs that most likely to cause it are the vinca alkaloids (vincristine, vindesine and vinblastine), platin drugs (cisplatin, carboplatin), and the taxanes (taxol, taxotere).
MONDAY, July 15 (HealthDay News) -- If battling a deadly disease can be said to have a silver lining, this might be it: Many forms of cancer appear to lower the risk for developing Alzheimer's disease, new research suggests.