Considerations. A lender's response to your new job can depend on what type of job it is. If your job is in the same industry that you've been working in, and has either the same or greater pay, the lender will have more confidence in your income than if you just switched to a completely new field. If you're using non-job income to qualify for a mortgage, the lender will want proof that the income has been steady for a couple of years, and that you can expect it to continue for several more.
When Things Go Wrong With Your Mortgage. Mortgage approvals take time. In a typical home loan market, 45 days is normal time frame. The time to get an approval, though, can change based on the market environment or how complicated a loan might be. For example, when mortgage rates are low and there's a refi boom on-going, closing on a loan take as long as two months. 
You can get a mortgage if you switched jobs or even changed industries, you just have to approach it the right way to seal the deal. When determining your ability to pay (and therefore determining how much house you can afford), a lender will calculate your average income based on your pay from the past 24 months. The income gets averaged as long as you’ve been an hourly employee — even if you’re making more money now on a per-hour basis. That’s right, if you were making $40 an hour, and now you earn $50 per hour, the averaged income during the past 24 months – including the lower wage — would apply.
2. Most lenders will be able to use your new income as long as you've been on the job at least 30 days. However, the other concern a lender would have is whether or not you’ve had a lapse in employment before this new job. 
It could be as short as 6 months or as long as 24 months. -- If the borrower is self-employed, then the automated underwriting systems will tell us how long they need to have the job, just as if they are paid commission. It could be anywhere from 6 months to 24 months. -- If the borrower is employed part-time or has a second job, then once again, the automated underwriting systems will tell us how long they need to have the job. Anything less than 24 months for a second job is generally unacceptable
3. Most lenders will want to see that you’ve been with your employer for a decent length of time before they’ll give you a mortgage, so if you’re thinking of switching jobs, it’s a good idea to hang on until you’ve got your mortgage in place. 1. Before applying for a mortgage, get a copy of your credit report which is held by credit reference agencies such as Experian or Equifax. This will allow you to see what lenders see when they review your application.
We both have a credit score of 805, we currently have a mortgage. The bank told us that since my husband has a new job title we cannot get a mortgage, he needs to be there 2 years. His last job he was there for 11 years, and he left for a job that’s even more stable, with better pay. The income gets averaged as long as you’ve been an hourly employee — even if you’re making more money now on a per-hour basis. That’s right, if you were making $40 an hour, and now you earn $50 per hour, the averaged income during the past 24 months – including the lower wage — would apply.
We are very close to getting it, within the next 2 weeks. If you are currently on a mortgage loan with your folks, the fact that you changed jobs has no bearing on that. If you are in the process of getting a new job while in the process of getting a mortgage, get the loan closed first. The income gets averaged as long as you’ve been an hourly employee — even if you’re making more money now on a per-hour basis. That’s right, if you were making $40 an hour, and now you earn $50 per hour, the averaged income during the past 24 months – including the lower wage — would apply.
When you apply for an FHA mortgage loan, you're required to submit information on your past and current employment; the name of the company, gross income, how long the job has lasted, and other relevant information. FHA Loan Limits. 