A. E. Haigh however maintained that the satyr play is a survival from “the primitive period of Bacchic worship”. Haigh lists several examples of recorded entries to the City Dionysia: thus, in 472 BC Aeschylus won the first prize with Phineaus, Persae, Glaucus and the satyr play Prometheus. The only satyr play to survive in its entirety is Euripides ' Cyclops, based on Odysseus ' encounter with the cyclops, Polyphemus, in Book 9 of the Odyssey.
Greek statuette. Two strolling actors with comedy masks in the Louvre, Paris. The Ancient Greeks took their entertainment very seriously and used drama as a way of investigating the world they lived in, and what it meant to be human. The three genres of drama were comedy, satyr plays, and most important of all, tragedy. Comedy: The first comedies were mainly satirical and mocked men in power for their vanity and foolishness. The first master of comedy was the playwright Aristophanes. He called this experience 'catharsis'.Satyr Plays: These short plays were performed between the acts of tragedies and made fun of the plight of the tragedy's characters. The satyrs were mythical half-human, half-goat figures and actors in these plays wore large phalluses for comic effect.
Greek Satyr and Old Greek Comedy. In the fifth century, the Greek tragic playwrights had acquired a significant following in Greek society. As a result, festival officials required that they present what became known as the 'satyr' play. The Satyr Play. The satryr play was a short comedy that burlesqued a Greek myth. They were charcterised by: 1  A chorus of satyrs whose predominant function was to satirise the seriousness of the tragic plays by parodying gods, heroes, tragic dances, actions, conventions of acting, costumes and scenery. 1 Satyrs wore goatskin loincloths with a phallus in the front and a horsetail at the rear. 2  They also wore tight flesh coloured garments that in some way ridiculed tragic costumes. 3  Some wore masks with fixed features and in the early satyr plays, the masks were not large.
But comedy—or the type of play called that—is not the earliest form of comic drama on record. Satyr plays, another genre of humorous theatre, were part and parcel of the Greek tragedians' work as far back as the evidence allows us to see. The earliest known playwright of satyr plays is Pratinas —also a tragic poet as discussed above (see Chapter 7)—whom some scholars have suggested was, in fact, the inventor of the satyr play, at least in the form it was popularized later in the fifth century.
Definition of SATYR PLAY. : a comic play of ancient Greece burlesquing a mythological subject and having a chorus representing satyrs. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Satyr play. Satyr plays were an ancient Greek form of tragicomedy, similar in spirit to the bawdy satire of burlesque. They featured choruses of satyrs, were based on Greek mythology, and were rife with mock drunkenness, brazen sexuality, pranks, sight gags, and general merriment.
So, after each tragic trilogy, the selected playwright would conclude things with a satyr play. A satyr play was a ridiculous, partially tragic, partially comic parody (or satire, though our word satire does not come from this root) of a popular legend. They were loaded with sex, drunkenness, and black comedy. The satyr chorus were notorious for their costumes, which featured comically large penises. The Romans didn't borrow this tradition from the Greeks, and the satyr plays didn't fare too well as the years went on. Only one example of this genre, The Cyclops by Euripides, survives. However, another play, The Tracking Satyrs by Sophocles, has a large number of surviving fragments.
Satyr plays were an ancient Greek form of tragicomedy, similar in spirit to the bawdy satire of burlesque. They featured choruses of satyrs, were based on Greek mythology, and were rife with mock drunkenness, brazen sexuality (including phallic props), pranks, sight gags, and general merriment. The only satyr play to survive in its entirety is Euripides ' Cyclops, based on Odysseus ' encounter with the cyclops, Polyphemus, in Book 9 of the Odyssey.
The data further suggest this so-called Old Comedy was probably not the first form of comic drama performed at the Dionysia. Instead, pre-classical playwrights were composing short humorous satyr plays featuring boisterous bands of lusty, mischievous woodland spirits called satyrs. During the Classical Age, satyr plays followed the presentation of tragic trilogies, making them the oldest form of comic drama extant. The earliest known playwright of satyr plays is Pratinas —also a tragic poet as discussed above (see Chapter 7)—whom some scholars have suggested was, in fact, the inventor of the satyr play, at least in the form it was popularized later in the fifth century.