A certified copy is a copy (often a photocopy) of a primary document, that has on it an endorsement or certificate that it is a true copy of the primary document. It does not certify that the primary document is genuine, only that it is a true copy of the primary document. A certified copy is often used in English-speaking common law countries as a convenient way of providing a copy of documents. It is usually inexpensive to obtain. A certified copy may be required for official government or court purposes and for commercial purposes
What is a Certified Copy of Will: A certified copy of any document refers to any reproduction (copy) of an original document that has been stamped and identified as true by certain persons designated by official institutions. Often, but not always, notaries can certify these copies. A Certified Copy of Will refers to the copy of the original will, a copy that was identified as true by official institutions.
A copy of a document. signed and certified as a true copy by the officer to whose custody the original Is intrusted. Doremus v. Smith, 4 N. J. Law, 143; People v. Foster, 27 Misc. Rep. 576, 58 N. Y. Supp. 574; Nelson v. Blakey, 54 Ind. 36. 
Report Abuse. It means that it is not sufficient to provide just a photocopy of a document (for example, a birth certificate). The copy must be certified by somebody (for example a notary) who will certify (i.e. state) that the copy is identical to the original. Flavio D · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 
A certified copy includes some kind of endorsement, stamp, or certificate from the issuer/custodian of the original record, verifying that the copy is a true copy of the original. To get a certified copy of a document, contact the issuer/custodian of the original record. 
certified copy noun [C]. › a ​copy of a ​document that can be used instead of the ​original one because an ​official has ​checked it and formally ​approved it as a ​true and ​accurate ​copy by ​signing it: To ​open an ​account, some ​banks ​demand a ​certified ​copy of your ​passport and ​proof of ​address. 
A photocopy of a document, judgment, or record that is signed and attested to as an accurate and a complete reproduction of the original document by a public official in whose custody the original has been placed for safekeeping. 
certified copy. Reproduction of a document or record, authenticated by the issuing authority or a competent third-party (such as a notary public) as a true facsimile of the original. Definition. Reproduction of a document or record, authenticated by the issuing authority or a competent third-party (such as a notary public) as a true facsimile of the original.