Introduction: Welcome to the Astronomical League’s Carbon Star Observing Program! Carbon stars are a unique and interesting type of variable star that exhibits peculiar characteristics and spectra. Most are red giant stars, and their distinguishing feature (and namesake) is the unusually high level of carbon molecules contained in their atmospheres.
In the classical carbon stars, those belonging to the modern spectral types C-R and C-N, the abundance of carbon is thought to be a product of helium fusion, specifically the triple-alpha process within a star, which giants reach near the end of their lives in the asymptotic giant branch (AGB). Carbon stars were discovered already in the 1860s when spectral classification pioneer Pater Angelo Secchi erected the Secchi class IV for the carbon stars, which in the late 1890s were reclassified as N class stars.
In normal stars (such as the Sun), the atmosphere is richer in oxygen than carbon. Ordinary stars not exhibiting the characteristics of carbon stars but cool enough to form carbon monoxide are therefore called oxygen-rich stars. Carbon stars were discovered already in the 1860s when spectral classification pioneer Pater Angelo Secchi erected the Secchi class IV for the carbon stars, which in the late 1890s were reclassified as N class stars.
Carbon stars are similar to red giant stars. It’s a late stage in the evolution of a star on its way to death. What makes a carbon star different from a regular red giant star is the fact that there’s more carbon than oxygen in its atmosphere. That’s a carbon star. I’m guessing you’re going to need a more complete explanation. Millions of years ago, both the red giant and the white dwarf were main sequence stars, and during this period one star siphoned material off the other and collected it on its outer atmosphere. Today we see a red giant with an unusually high amount of carbo
Carbon stars also show a rich spectrum of molecular lines at millimeter wavelengths and submillimeter wavelengths. In the carbon star IRC+10216 more than 50 circumstellar molecules have been detected. This star is often used to search for new circumstellar molecules. Carbon stars were discovered already in the 1860s when spectral classification pioneer Pater Angelo Secchi erected the Secchi class IV for the carbon stars, which in the late 1890s were reclassified as N class stars.
The output of these helium fusion reactions is carbon. Convection currents deep within the star carry the carbon upwards to the surface, where it’s deposited in the star’s outer atmosphere. The second way carbon stars can appear is through a binary system. One star is a red giant, and the other star is a white dwarf. Millions of years ago, both the red giant and the white dwarf were main sequence stars, and during this period one star siphoned material off the other and collected it on its outer atmosphere. Today we see a red giant with an unusually high amount of carbon in its
Carbon stars can be explained by more than one astrophysical mechanism. Classical carbon stars are distinguished from non-classical ones on the grounds of mass, with classical carbon stars being the more massive. Carbon stars were discovered already in the 1860s when spectral classification pioneer Pater Angelo Secchi erected the Secchi class IV for the carbon stars, which in the late 1890s were reclassified as N class stars.
19 Piscium, TX Piscium-a naked eye Carbon star in the circle of Pisces A collection of Carbon Stars-Carbon Stars are stars that are extremely red in color. Their outer shell of carbon is very efficient at absorbing other colors. These stars are usually giant variable stars that would dwarf almost any other star in the sky. They really jump out at you and are a blast to hunt down. You will know it when you get one, the red color is very striking indeed! Carbon stars are evolved cooling giants (and some dwarfs) with outer shells or clouds of carbon dust. Typical surface temperatures of carbon stars range from 2000K to 3000K. The apparent color of these stars is deep red.
Carbon stars. Carbon stars are evolved cool giants (and some time dwarf) with circumstellar shells or clouds of carbon dust material. The typical temperature surface range from 2000K and 3000K. The apparent color of this stars is deep red and all are irregular or semi-regular variables. 
Carbon Star. Carbon stars are gigantic stellar masses similar to red giants, but their atmosphere contains more carbon than oxygen. They are rare and they are so big they can swallow whole planets in our Solar System, indicating an advanced stage of evolution. Betelgeuse, a star in the constellation of Orion, is larger than the orbit of planet Mars. Carbon stars are as big as them, but only contain more carbon than oxygen. As stars age, they grow hotter, and the radiation from their core tries to blow them apart.