A credit score is a numerical expression based on a level analysis of a person's credit files, to represent the creditworthiness of the person. A credit score is primarily based on a credit report information typically sourced from credit bureaus. A credit score is primarily based on credit report information, typically from one of the three major credit bureaus: Experian, TransUnion, and Equifax. Income is not considered by the major credit bureaus when calculating a credit score.
FICO ® Scores are calculated from many different pieces of credit data in your credit report. This data is grouped into five categories as outlined below. The percentages in the chart reflect how important each of the categories is in determining how your FICO Scores are calculated. Your FICO Scores consider both positive and negative information in your credit report. Late payments will lower your FICO Scores, but establishing or re-establishing a good track record of making payments on time will raise your score.
Your FICO Scores only look at information in your credit report. Your credit score is calculated from your credit report. However, lenders look at many things when making a credit decision such as your income, how long you have worked at your present job and the kind of credit you are requesting. Your FICO Scores consider both positive and negative information in your credit report. Late payments will lower your FICO Scores, but establishing or re-establishing a good track record of making payments on time will raise your score.
Both the Equifax Credit Score and the FICO Score are general-purpose score models used to predict credit risk. The Equifax Credit Score is a proprietary model created by Equifax. The FICO Score is a proprietary model created by Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) . The FICO Score uses a numerical range of 300 to 850, where higher scores also indicate lower credit risk. The Equifax Credit Score can be used to calculate a score for not only your Equifax credit file, but also your Experian and TransUnion credit files.
DEFINITION of 'FICO Score'. A type of credit score that makes up a substantial portion of the credit report that lenders use to assess an applicant's credit risk and whether to extend a loan. FICO is an acronym for the Fair Isaac Corporation, the creators of the FICO score. Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'FICO Score'. Using mathematical models, the FICO score takes into account various factors in each of these five areas to determine credit risk: payment history, current level of indebtedness, types of credit used and length of credit history, and new credit.
The most commonly used model is called FICO ® (named after its creator, the Fair Isaac Company). Your FICO ® credit score is used to evaluate your creditworthiness by giving you a certain amount of points based on the information contained in your credit report and your debt-to-income ratio. 
FICO (NYSE: FICO) is a software company based in San Jose, California and founded by Bill Fair and Earl Isaac in 1956. Its FICO score, a measure of consumer credit risk, has become a fixture of consumer lending in the United States. 
A FICO ® score is a particular brand of credit score. A credit score is a number that is used to predict how likely you are to pay back a loan on time. Credit scores are used by companies to make decisions such as whether to offer you a mortgage or a credit card. Like all credit scores, FICO scores can change over time according to your credit behavior. Tip: To get and keep a good credit score: 1  Pay all your bills on time. 2  Apply only for the credit that you need. 3  Don’t use too much of the credit that is available to you.
FICO ® Scores at each credit bureau. You have FICO ® Scores for each of the three credit bureaus: Equifax, TransUnion and Experian. Each FICO ® Score is based on information the credit bureau keeps on file about you. A credit score helps lenders evaluate a credit report because it is a number that summarizes credit risk, based on a snapshot of a credit report at a particular point in time. It is important to understand that not every credit score offered for sale online is a FICO ® Score.