Method 1 of 2: Parboil Sausage Before Grilling. 1. Boil the sausage links for 10 to 15 minutes before you grill them. This process is called parboiling: it reduces the amount of time the sausages have to be on the grill and simplifies the grilling process. You can parboil sausage in advance so it is grill-ready.. 1  Place the sausage in a heavy skillet on the stove. 
I don't actually simmer them, just cook them in a covered pan with a bit of water so that the steam pre-cooks them enough that the inside gets done before the outside starts to burn. As for how long, that depends on how thick they are, whether they're frozen or fresh, and how high you turn up the heat. Then put a lid on and steam for about 8-10 minutes. Then remove the lid and let the water boil away so you are left with the sausages and the olive oil. Then brown as much as you like.
1 Cut the sausage links and place the sausages over the baking paper, use a large enough oven tray so that it allows some room around each of the sausages. 2  Place sausages in oven and roast for 15 minutes or until cooked. 3  Shake the oven tray from time to time to turn the sausages so they brown evenly. 1 Place a sheet of baking paper on oven tray. 2  Cut the sausage links and place the sausages over the baking paper, use a large enough oven tray so that it allows some room around each of the sausages. 3  Place sausages in oven and roast for 15 minutes or until cooked.
For fresh sausages about an inch thick (typical Italian sausage), I'd put them in a pan with maybe a half cup of water at medium-high heat, give them about 10 minutes after the water starts to boil, then remove the lid. Then put a lid on and steam for about 8-10 minutes. Then remove the lid and let the water boil away so you are left with the sausages and the olive oil. Then brown as much as you like.
I put the sausages in a hot pan with about 1/4 inch of water and some olive oil. Then put a lid on and steam for about 8-10 minutes. Then remove the lid and let the water boil away so you are left with the sausages and the olive oil. Then brown as much as you like.
Place the sausage links in a heavy skillet. Add water to cover sausage and parboil until sausage is gray throughout (10-15 minutes). Drain water. Fry sausage over medium heat until nicely browned. 
As with the methods above, the sausages should have an inch or so of space on either side so that they can cook evenly. If the sausage links are connected by their casing, cut them apart so that you can spread them out. 4. Bake for 20 minutes. Place the sausages into boiling water. To prevent hot splashes, lower the sausages in one-by-one with a set of tongs or another long utensil. Don't drop them in. When all the sausages are in the water, turn the heat down so that the boiling reduces to a gentle simmer.
Fresh Sausage. To parboil, place sausage links in a heavy skillet. Add water to cover sausage and par-boil until sausage is grey throughout (about 10 to 15 minutes.) The sausage then can be fried until nicely browned. Parboiled sausage also may be grilled slowly over coals, turning frequently until grey-brown throughout. 
Let the sausages cook. Cover the simmering water with a lid. If the sausages were previously cooked (as is the case with most hot dogs), you'll only need to cook them until they're hot all the way through (about 10 minutes). If they weren't pre-cooked, you may need to cook them for up to 30 minutes before taking them out. Place the sausages into boiling water. To prevent hot splashes, lower the sausages in one-by-one with a set of tongs or another long utensil. Don't drop them in. When all the sausages are in the water, turn the heat down so that the boiling reduces to a gentle simmer.