1 Genera & species: There are more than 100 genera and about 2,300 species of wolf spiders; 200 species live in the United States. 2  The Carolina wolf spider (Hogna carolinensis) is the official state spider of South Carolina, which is the only state that has a state spider. 1 Family: Lycosidae. 2  Genera & species: There are more than 100 genera and about 2,300 species of wolf spiders; 200 species live in the United States. 3
Where the Wolf Spider is Found. 1  Wolf spiders may live just about anywhere that insects can be found on which to feed. 2  They are most likely to be found on the ground in open areas, such as farm fields and grassy areas or harboring in ground tunnels, between firewood, under leaf litter or other ground clutter. 
Wolf spiders are one of the best-known type of spider in the United States and other parts of the world. They vary widely in size, color and habitat. Small wolf spiders are less than one inch, whereas, some species are as big as two inches in length. 
WHAT IS A WOLF SPIDER? Wolf Spiders are large, hairy spiders which are usually patterned with a mixture of black, gray, and brown. Wolf spiders, especially large ones, look very similar to spiders in the Pisauridae family (nursery web and fishing spiders), but wolf spiders are usually more robust, with shorter legs. Wolf spiders have 8 eyes. The Rabid Wolf Spider, Rabidosa rabida, is a typical member of the wolf spider genus Rabidosa. Wolf spiders in this genus are very common in Kentucky and grow to about 1 in length. They are characterized by bold brown and white stripes on the cephalothorax.
Wolf spiders are members of the family Lycosidae, from the Ancient Greek word  λύκος  meaning wolf. They are robust and agile hunters with excellent eyesight. They live mostly solitary and hunt alone. In general their coloration is appropriate to their favorite habitat. Hogna is the genus with the largest of the wolf spiders. Among the Hogna species in the U.S., the nearly solid dark brown H. carolinensis (Carolina wolf spider) is the largest, with a body that can be more than one inch long.
A Wolf spider is a member of the group of spiders whose scientific name is the Lycosidae. Lycos means wolf in Latin. These spiders get their name from the way they hunt, which the people who named them thought was like the way wolves hunt. However, wolves hunt in packs but spiders are solitary animals. Their way of hunting is more like that of solitary cats such as the cheetahs. The eyes of a wolf spider -- note that they are not all the same size. The eyes of a wolf spider seen from the front. The eyes of a spider that is not a wolf spider. There are several kinds of spiders that look almost like wolf spiders. The best way to be sure is to look at the eyes.
Wolf spiders don't fit the traditional spider archetype. They don’t spin webs and don't catch their prey in them; instead, they stalk and hunt their prey-just as wolves do. Although it's true that Wolf spiders look very similar to Tarantulas, Wolf spiders are generally smaller and from a different family of spider. Don’t confuse the Wolf spider with a Brown Recluse spider. The Wolf spider has the same brownish-grey coloration, but does not have the violin-shaped marking behind its head that a Brown Recluse has. Also, the Wolf spider has shorter legs than the Brown Recluse or any other web dwelling spider.
The eye arrangement of the wolf spider is one of its most interesting features; they have four small eyes in the bottom row, followed by two large eyes in the middle row, and two medium eyes in the top row. Even though the wolf spider is poisonous, its venom is not lethal. The wolf spider is not known to be aggressive; however, they will bite if they feel like they are in harm or danger. They also move extremely fast when they are disturbed.
Appearance. Wolf spiders has a brown or dark coloration with bristles on their legs and body, which makes some species look a bit like tarantulas, but they are in fact very different. As there are many different wolf spider species, their appearances vary a lot. 