Norway and the European Union. Last updated: 10.03.2015 // Norway and the EU enjoy good and close relations, although Norway is not a member of the European Union. The Agreement on the European Economic Area (EEA) is the mainstay of our cooperation, and it ensures that Norway takes part in the EU internal market. We are also part of the Schengen Agreement and cooperate with the EU on foreign and security policy issues. See also:
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Although Norway is not a member state of the European Union (EU), it is closely associated with the Union through its membership in the European Economic Area (EEA), in the context of being a European Free Trade Association (EFTA) member. Trade [edit]. Norway's trade is dominated by the EU, and Norway is the EU's 5th most important import partner. Norway to EU trade amounted to 91.85 € billion in 2008, primarily energy supplies (only 14.1% is manufactured products). The EU's exports to Norway amounted to 43.58 € billion, primarily manufactured products.
Yes, they are situated in the Fennoscandian region of northern Europe, that occupies the western portion of the Scandinavian Peninsula.They finland and Norway are bordered by each other, and Russia, while the United Kingdom and the Faroe Islands lie to its west across the North Sea. NO they are NOT in Europe Last updated: 20.10.2011 // Norway and EU enjoy good and close relations, although Norway is not a member of the European Union. Norway is a part of the Internal Market through the EEA Agreement and is an assosiated member of Schengen. Read more Quoted from http://www.eu-norway.org/eu/.
Geography. Norway is situated in the western part of the Scandinavian peninsula. It extends about 1,100 mi (1,770 km) from the North Sea along the Norwegian Sea to more than 300 mi (483 km) above the Arctic Circle, the farthest north of any European country. It is slightly larger than New Mexico. 
However, politically, only Sweden and Finland are part of the EU (European Union). Norway voted against joining. When it comes to travel, all three countries are part of Europe's Schengen Agreement, which abolishes border controls between the countries. NO they are NOT in Europe Last updated: 20.10.2011 // Norway and EU enjoy good and close relations, although Norway is not a member of the European Union. Norway is a part of the Internal Market through the EEA Agreement and is an assosiated member of Schengen. Read more Quoted from http://www.eu-norway.org/eu/.
Report Abuse. NO they are NOT in Europe Last updated: 20.10.2011 // Norway and EU enjoy good and close relations, although Norway is not a member of the European Union. Norway is a part of the Internal Market through the EEA Agreement and is an assosiated member of Schengen. Read more Quoted from http://www.eu-norway.org/eu/.
Norway and the EU enjoy good and close relations, although Norway is not a member of the European Union. The Agreement on the European Economic Area (EEA) is the mainstay of our cooperation, and it ensures that Norway takes part in the EU internal market. We are also part of the Schengen Agreement and cooperate with the EU on foreign and security policy issues. 
Scandinavia is a large region of Northern Europe that is mainly made up of the Scandinavian Peninsula. As such, it includes the countries of Norway and Sweden. In addition, Denmark, Finland and Iceland are also included in Scandinavia. Geographically, the Scandinavian Peninsula is the largest peninsula in Europe and it extends from above the Arctic Circle at 66.5°N latitude south to the North and Baltic Seas. Norway. Norway is located in Northern Europe on the Scandinavian Peninsula between the North Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean. It has an area of 125,020 square miles (323,802 sq km) and 15,626 miles (25,148 km) of coastline.
In 1962, Norway, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Ireland applied for membership in the European Economic Community (EEC). When France rebuffed Britain's application the next year, accession negotiations with Norway and the other countries were also suspended, because of strong economic ties between them. Trade [edit]. Norway's trade is dominated by the EU, and Norway is the EU's 5th most important import partner. Norway to EU trade amounted to 91.85 € billion in 2008, primarily energy supplies (only 14.1% is manufactured products). The EU's exports to Norway amounted to 43.58 € billion, primarily manufactured products.