Tile refinishing, also known as tile reglazing, on an average-sized bathroom floor, will cost around $1000 when done by a professional. Doing it yourself could be as cheap as $300…around $75 for a kit and $200 for the tiles and other materials. It shouldn’t cost you much more than $500 to resurface the countertops in your bathroom because countertop space in most bathrooms is small. If yours is larger than average, the price will increase accordingly. In general, resurfacing is 70% to 80% cheaper than buying new countertop
The National Kitchen and Bath Association recently estimated that a full bathtub replacement can cost well over $3,000 in labor and supplies. Performing a total tub replacement yourself means investing far beyond the cost of a new tub. If you've been considering bathtub refinishing cost versus that of a full replacement Miracle Method can help you make the decision.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Refinish Bathtub! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Refinishing Bathtubs project. For a basic 1 refinishing project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Refinish Bathtub ranges between $412.59 - $959.35 per refinishing. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Refinish Bathroom Tile! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Bathroom Tile Refinishing project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Refinish Bathroom Tile ranges between $4.40 - $10.01 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
You can resurface the basin, benchtops, tiles, shower or bath. And it’s possible to re-do almost any material – from ceramic to metals, laminates and tiles. A new bathroom could cost anywhere from $5000 to $20,000, depending on your budget and imagination. It may also take a few weeks to do, so you and your family will need to find another bathroom to use in the meantime. Compared to a total renovation, resurfacing can be relatively cheaper.
1 Do-it-yourself bathtub refinishing kits are available for anywhere from $20-$200 in hardware or home improvement stores and typically contain a cleaner and surface prep substance, waterproof sandpaper and two or more paint components. 1 Refinishing can be done with a brush and roller, but you'll get the best finish with a paint sprayer (about $100-$200 for a good basic model). 2  Some people are not happy with the long-term results of do-it-yourself bathtub refinishing.
Instead of spending thousands and investing weeks of time, Miracle Method can refinish your bathtub for a fraction of the cost. Not only can this save you up to 75% of replacement costs, but it can be completed in a matter of a few short days. If you've been considering bathtub refinishing cost versus that of a full replacement Miracle Method can help you make the decision.
Tile Resurfacing Average Costs. The actual cost to resurface bathroom tiles depends on your location, the company hired, the amount of tile to be resurfaced, the condition of the tile, and other factors. 1  Bathroom tile refinishing costs $5 to $10 per square foot. 
A complete bathroom resurface usually takes 2 to 3 days depending on the scope of work and will usually cost between $2,000 and $3,000 incl. gst depending on the condition and size of the bathroom. A site inspection by an applicator is required in order to provide recommendations and a firm cost. Sometimes referred to as 'antique' or 'free-standing' bathtubs, original claw-foot baths are much sought after by those wishing to retain the 'heritage' look in their bathroom. Resurfacing a paddock tub in poor condition will cost between $1,500 and $2,000 incl. gst depending on size and condition.