Pentoxifylline causes changes in your blood that help improve blood flow. This also helps your blood carry oxygen to your tissues and organs. Pentoxifylline is used to improve blood flow and reduce certain symptoms of a condition called intermittent claudication (IN-ter-MIT-ent KLOD-ih-KAY-tion). Pentoxifylline is not a cure for this condition. Pentoxifylline may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Uses. This medication is used to improve the symptoms of a certain blood flow problem in the legs/arms (intermittent claudication due to occlusive artery disease). Pentoxifylline can decrease the muscle aching/pain/ cramps during exercise, including walking, that occur with intermittent claudication. 
CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Trental ® (pentoxifylline) is a prescription medication approved to reduce the viscosity (thickness) of the blood and improve blood flow. It is used to increase circulation in people with peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Trental is used to treat the pain and discomforts of the disease; it is not intended to cure the condition.
Uses of This Medicine. Pentoxifylline improves the flow of blood through blood vessels. It is used to reduce leg pain caused by poor blood circulation. Pentoxifylline makes it possible to walk farther before having to rest because of leg cramps. Pentoxifylline is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Pentoxifylline causes changes in your blood that help improve blood flow. This also helps your blood carry oxygen to your tissues and organs. Pentoxifylline is used to improve blood flow and reduce certain symptoms of a condition called intermittent claudication (IN-ter-MIT-ent KLOD-ih-KAY-tion). Pentoxifylline is not a cure for this condition
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Pentoxifylline is an oral drug used for treating symptoms of intermittent claudication caused by peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Peripheral artery disease is caused by the build-up of cholesterol plaques in arteries of the legs. 
Pentoxifylline (INN, BAN, USAN) or oxpentifylline (AAN) is a drug commonly sold by Sanofi under the brand name Trental. Its chemical name is 1-(5-oxohexyl)-3, 7-dimethylxanthine. Pentoxifylline is a xanthine derivative. Other brand names include Pentox, Pentoxil and Flexital. 
Enter Your Email Address. CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Pentoxifylline (Trental ®) is a prescription medication approved to reduce the viscosity (thickness) of the blood and improve blood flow. It is used to increase circulation in people with peripheral arterial disease (PAD). 
Pentoxifylline causes changes in your blood that help improve blood flow. This also helps your blood carry oxygen to your tissues and organs. Pentoxifylline is used to improve blood flow and reduce certain symptoms of a condition called intermittent claudication (IN-ter-MIT-ent KLOD-ih-KAY-tion). Pentoxifylline is not a cure for this condition. 