DEFINITION of 'Tax Return'. 1. The tax form or forms used to file income taxes with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Tax returns often are set up in a worksheet format, where the income figures used to calculate the tax liability are written into the documents themselves. Tax returns must be filed every year for an individual or business that received income during the year, whether through regular income (wages), interest, dividends, capital gains, or other profits. 2. A return of excess taxes paid during a given tax year; this is more accurately known as a tax refund. Next Up.
Tax Return Law & Legal Definition. A tax return is the form to be filed with a taxing authority by a taxpayer which details his/her/their income, expenses, exemptions, deductions and calculation of taxes which are chargeable to the taxpayer. Tax returns may be filed on the local, state, and federal levels. Tax returns are subject to the rules of the taxing authority with which they are filed. Penalties and fines exist for failure to timely file a tax return or for false statements made on a tax return. Your federal tax return and the information contained in your tax return is confidential.
DEFINITION of 'Tax Refund'. The return of excess amounts of income tax that a taxpayer has paid to the state or federal government throughout the past year. In certain cases, taxpayers may even receive a refund if they owed no taxes, because certain tax credits are fully refundable. Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'Tax Refund'. Many taxpayers look on tax refunds as a bonus or a stroke of luck at tax time. In reality, a tax refund represents an interest-free loan that a taxpayer makes to the government.
tax return. Standard form provided by the tax authorities on which a taxpayer reports taxable income with permitted deductions and exemptions, and computes his or her tax liability.
Rate this tax return definition... A tax return is the form or set of forms on which American citizens and businesses report their annual income when filing their state or federal taxes. States have tax return forms with similar designations. Officially, all tax return forms for the tax year just concluded have to be filed by April 15th, but tax return forms such as form 4868 and form 7004 enable taxpayers to receive a filing extension of up to six months.
A tax return is the form to be filed with a taxing authority by a taxpayer which details his/her/their income, expenses, exemptions, deductions and calculation of taxes which are chargeable to the taxpayer. Tax returns are subject to the rules of the taxing authority with which they are filed. Penalties and fines exist for failure to timely file a tax return or for false statements made on a tax return. Your federal tax return and the information contained in your tax return is confidential.
tax return. n. the form to be filed with a taxing authority by a taxpayer which details his/her/their income, expenses, exemptions, deductions, and calculation of taxes which are chargeable to the taxpayer. (See: tax).
(December 2010). Tax preparation is the process of preparing tax returns, often income tax returns, often for a person other than the taxpayer, and generally for compensation. Tax preparation may be done by the taxpayer with or without the help of tax preparation software and online services. 
Also called tax return. a statement on an official form showing income, deductions, exemptions, and taxes due. 24. Usu., returns. an official or unofficial report on a count of votes, candidates elected, etc.: election returns. 25. Archit. a. the continuation of a molding, projection, etc., in a different direction. 