Overview. The human skeleton is composed mainly of a substance called bone, and there are primarily four types of cells that make up bone. These are the osteoprogenitor cells, osteoblasts, osteoclasts and osteocytes.
Also known as bone marrow stromal cells, mesenchymal stem cells are rare cells, mainly found in the bone marrow, that can give rise to a large number of tissue types such as bone, cartilage (the lining of joints), fat tissue, and connective tissue (tissue that is in between organs and structures in the body).
The cells which create the lining of the bones are derived from the osteoblasts. This lining of cells is found on the surface of most adult bones. These cells primarily are responsible for the regulation of phosphate and calcium through the entire bone matrix.
They are created in the marrow of the bone, which is the soft inner area containing the stem cells that also produce red and white blood cells. Working collectively, osteoblasts create a type of bone tissue called osteoid primarily from collagen, which is then mineralized.
Bone is a metabolically active tissue composed of several types of cells. These cells include osteoblasts, which are involved in the creation and mineralization of bone tissue, osteocytes, and osteoclasts, which are involved in the reabsorption of bone tissue.
Bone cells, which are found within the bone tissue, are responsible for the make-up of the skeleton of vertebrates.
1 Osteoblasts: These cells are derived from mesenchymal stem cells and are responsible for bone matrix synthesis and its subsequent mineralization. 2  In the adult skeleton, the majority of bone surfaces that are not undergoing formation or resorption (i.e. not being remodeled) are lined by bone lining cells.
They are connective tissue cells found at the surface of bone. They can be stimulated to proliferate and differentiate as osteocytes. Osteocytes are bone cells. Osteocytes manufacture type I collagen and other substances that make up the bone extracellular matrix. Osteocytes will be found enclosed in bone.
1 Osteoblasts. 2  Cells that are derived from osteoprogenitor cells and are responsible for the synthesis of the organic components of bone matrix, which is called osteoid. 3  They are located on the surface of bone tissue and resemble epithelium.
There are three types of cell present in bone that are of particular interest – osteoblasts, osteocytes and osteoclasts, which are respectively responsible for the production, maintenance and resorption of bone. 1  Osteoblasts. 2  Mononucleated “bone-forming” cells found near the surface of bones.