It is used to treat angina (chest pain), hypertension (high blood pressure), and to treat or prevent heart attack. Some of the side effects that may be experienced with metoprolol include: low blood pressure, slow heart rate, rash or itching, shortness of breath, dizziness, drowsiness, and depression. A: Lopressor (metoprolol) is in a class of drugs known as beta blockers. Beta blockers are used to treat chest pain and high blood pressure; they are also used to treat or prevent heart attack. Drinking alcohol with metoprolol can increase the dizziness and drowsiness that often occurs in patients taking metoprolol.
Metoprolol is used in the treatment of hypertension (high blood pressure) and angina (chest pain). Some of the more common side effects of metoprolol are fatigue, dizziness, diarrhea, itching, rash, depression, and slow heartbeat. Blood pressure measures how hard your heart is working to pump blood through your body. A: Lopressor (metoprolol) is in a class of drugs known as beta blockers. Beta blockers are used to treat chest pain and high blood pressure; they are also used to treat or prevent heart attack. Drinking alcohol with metoprolol can increase the dizziness and drowsiness that often occurs in patients taking metoprolol.
Metoprolol is used to treat angina (chest pain) and hypertension (high blood pressure). It is also used to treat or prevent heart attack. Metoprolol may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  chest pain, pounding heartbeats or fluttering in your chest;
Common side effects of Lopressor may include nausea, vomiting, dry mouth, gas, heartburn, diarrhea, constipation, dizziness, tiredness, depression, decreased sex drive, impotence, difficulty having an orgasm, headache, sleep problems (insomnia), anxiety, nervousness, and rash. Less serious side effects may include: 1  dry mouth, constipation, heartburn, vomiting, diarrhea; 2  decreased sex drive, impotence, or difficulty having an orgasm; 3  headache, drowsiness, tired feeling; 4  sleep problems (insomnia); or. 5  anxiety, nervousness
Less serious side effects may include: 1  dry mouth, constipation, heartburn, vomiting, diarrhea; 2  decreased sex drive, impotence, or difficulty having an orgasm; 3  headache, drowsiness, tired feeling; 4  sleep problems (insomnia); or. 5  anxiety, nervousness. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  chest pain, pounding heartbeats or fluttering in your chest;
A: Metoprolol belongs to a class of medications called beta blockers, which are used to treat high blood pressure, angina, and congestive heart failure. The most common side effects are dizziness, lightheadedness, or slow heart rate. A: Lopressor (metoprolol) is in a class of drugs known as beta blockers. Beta blockers are used to treat chest pain and high blood pressure; they are also used to treat or prevent heart attack. Drinking alcohol with metoprolol can increase the dizziness and drowsiness that often occurs in patients taking metoprolol.
A lower blood pressure can reduce the risk of strokes and heart attacks. Metoprolol is also used to treat severe chest pain (angina) and lowers the risk of repeated heart attacks. It is given to people who have already had a heart attack. In addition, metoprolol is used to treat patients with heart failure. This medicine is a beta-blocker. It works by affecting the response to nerve impulses in certain parts of the body, like the heart. As a result, the heart beats slower and decreases the blood pressure.
A: Metoprolol (Lopressor) is a beta blocker used to treat high blood pressure and other heart conditions as directed by your doctor. The most common side effects with metoprolol are low blood pressure, low heart rate, dizziness and fatigue. A: Lopressor (metoprolol) is in a class of drugs known as beta blockers. Beta blockers are used to treat chest pain and high blood pressure; they are also used to treat or prevent heart attack. Drinking alcohol with metoprolol can increase the dizziness and drowsiness that often occurs in patients taking metoprolol.