Neither the United States of America, nor any country in North or South America, is directly mentioned in the Bible. Yet many struggle with the idea that the world's leading nation would not once be the subject of Scripture's end time prophecies. Many reasons are possible. First, the focus of Bible prophecy is Israel. It would therefore be natural to focus on this land and those that surround it rather than on other nations. Second, the United States may not be the most dominant nation during the tribulation period. Whether due to the loss of many Christians at the time of the rapture, internal problems, or attack from external forces, it is possible America will not have the same level of influence during that future time. America has been blessed as a leading nation and one with many Christians who serve the Lord
According to the Barna Group, the majority of Christians do not believe that Satan or the devil actually exists. 2 However, according to an AP-AOL news poll, up to 97% of evangelical Christians believe that angels exist. 3 Contrary to the beliefs of many, Satan is not the opposite of God—an anti-god. 1 You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. 2  He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. 3  Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature; for he is a liar, and the father of lies.
Watch for these signs and symptoms if you think you or someone else may be having a stroke. Note when your signs and symptoms begin, because the length of time they have been present may guide your treatment decisions: 1  Trouble with speaking and understanding. 2  You may experience confusion. 3  You may slur your words or have difficulty understanding speech. 4  Paralysis or numbness of the face, arm or leg. 
But abnormal heart rhythms and cardiac symptoms may come and go. That’s why your doctor may want to evaluate your heartbeat over time while you go about your normal activities. You may be asked to wear a Holter monitor if you have fast, slow or irregular heartbeats called arrhythmias. 
The first thing to do if you think you're having a heart attack is to phone 999 immediately for an ambulance. You should then sit and rest while you wait for the ambulance to arrive. Do not get up and look around for an aspirin. This may put unnecessary strain on your heart. A heart attack always causes some permanent damage to your heart muscle, but the sooner treatment is given, the more muscle it is possible to save. If a heart attack damages a significant amount of your heart muscle, this can affect the pumping action of
The symptoms of a heart attack vary from one person to another. You may feel tightness, heaviness or pain in your chest. This may spread to your arms, neck, jaw, back or stomach. A heart attack always causes some permanent damage to your heart muscle, but the sooner treatment is given, the more muscle it is possible to save. If a heart attack damages a significant amount of your heart muscle, this can affect the pumping action of your heart.
Many people aren't sure what's wrong when they are having symptoms of a heart attack. Some of the most common warning symptoms of a heart attack for both men and women are: 1  Chest pain or discomfort. 2  Most heart attacks involve discomfort in the center or left side of the chest. 3  The discomfort usually lasts more than a few minutes or goes away and comes b
When this happens the artery narrows and blood flow to part of the heart muscle decreases or stops. We're not sure what causes a spasm. A spasm can occur in normal-appearing blood vessels as well as in vessels partly blocked by atherosclerosis. A severe spasm can cause a heart attack. No. But a heart attack can cause a cardiac arrest. Heart attacks are caused by a blockage that stops blood flow to the heart. Cardiac arrest is caused when the heart's electrical system malfunctions.
This blood clot can block the blood flow through the heart muscle. When the heart muscle is starved for oxygen and nutrients, it is called ischemia. When damage or death of part of the heart muscle occurs as a result of ischemia, it is called a heart attack or myocardial infarction (MI). About every 43 seconds, someone in the United States has a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Your heart muscle needs oxygen to survive. No. But a heart attack can cause a cardiac arrest. Heart attacks are caused by a blockage that stops blood flow to the heart. Cardiac arrest is caused when the heart's electrical system malfunctions.