Report Abuse. Oil paint takes up to six years to dry properly, you need to mix it with turpentine and linseed oil (or another medium) to make it dry faster. Acrylic dries within hours. As a painter myself, I would not have mixed these mediums, because they don't really work well together. Report Abuse. The Acrylic in the paint is slowing the drying time of the oil paint, it's happened to me before-I no longer mix-it will take quite a while-oil does anyway, I just cover it, put it somewhere dry-like the airing cupboard, and go onto the next.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Depending on the thickness of the paint and the surface you are painting on, acrylic paint should be dry to the touch in 1-2 hours. You can add an extender medium to acrylic paint to make it dry more slowly if you are doing a painting where you want to blend the paint more. You can also use a fan or a hairdryer set on low to dry your painting even more quickly. Source(s): Katherine J · 9 years ago.
Answer: The drying time for acrylic paint varies from brand to brand as some are formulated to have a longer working time. But with 'normal' acrylics, it can be only a few minutes before acrylic paint is dry after you've squeezed it out, especially if the paint is thin and the weather hot. However, paint in a tube with the cap on stays usable for years (just don't leave the tube lying in the sun or next to a heater). As a newbie just beginning to dabble in painting, I am curious about the average drying time for acrylic paint. I realize the time will vary depending on moisture content, but I would like an idea before spending a lot of money on paint that will dry before I can use it.
In some cases, it might dry in as little as 20min. You can add an extender medium to acrylic paint to make it dry more slowly if you are doing a painting where you want to blend the paint more. You can also use a fan or a hairdryer set on low to dry your painting even more quickly. Source(s): Katherine J · 9 years ago.
Acrylic house paint takes very little time to dry, usually 30 minutes to the touch and is able to be recoated within four hours. However, acrylic paint is slow to fully cure, … often taking up to a month to fully cure. 7 days Whiteboard paint takes 7 days to cure. Don't be fooled if it seems dry to the touch sooner than that. It can feel try to the touch within 24 hours, but it won't be read … y for use until it has fully cured-so be patient, and give it the full week. Otherwise you could have quite a mess on your wall!
It depends. If it's an oil based enamel, it will take anywhere from an hour, for a super-fast dry enamel which is intended to be sprayed, to 24 hours for a standard coating. A … water based enamel with usually dry to the point of being serviceable anywhere from an hour to six hours. 7 days Whiteboard paint takes 7 days to cure. Don't be fooled if it seems dry to the touch sooner than that. It can feel try to the touch within 24 hours, but it won't be read … y for use until it has fully cured-so be patient, and give it the full week.
Confidence votes 2.8K. Acrylic house paint takes very little time to dry, usually 30 minutes to the touch and is able to be recoated within four hours. However, acrylic paint is slow to fully cure, often taking up to a month to fully cure. 7 days Whiteboard paint takes 7 days to cure. Don't be fooled if it seems dry to the touch sooner than that. It can feel try to the touch within 24 hours, but it won't be read … y for use until it has fully cured-so be patient, and give it the full week.