Restoration Hardware Style Home. This project follows a restoration hardware theme throughout, using many unique earth toned finishes. The kitchen provides a timeless white perimeter with a burst of purple on the island. Country: United States.
Follow. We believe Restoration Hardware is one of the fastest growing and most innovative luxury brands in the home furnishings marketplace. We believe our brand stands alone and is redefining this highly fragmented and growing market. Restoration Hardware is positioned as a lifestyle brand and design authority, offering dominant assortments across a growing number of categories, including furniture, lighting, textiles, bathware, decor, outdoor and garden, as well as baby and child products.
The furniture, style, and store layout of Restoration Hardware is so luxe, it gets me every time. If I could live in a Restoration Hardware catalog, I would be one happy woman. I love their sophisticated neutrals set against an often rustic but elegant backdrop. 
That trip made me think, how can I get this look for less. It’s not just the color, it’s the style, the patina the fabrics, it’s the whole package. The result of this musing is a series of post on how to get the Restoration Hardware look for less. So let’s start by deconstructing RH style into simple parts. RH style has been called the weathered European look. It is very antique and architectural
Restoration Hardware first went public in 1998 before becoming private again. Gary Friedman joined the company in 2001 as Chief Executive Officer when Restoration Hardware was on the verge of bankruptcy. In 2005, Gordon left the company in order to partner with Robert Redford on the development of Sundance Apparel. In the 2007 novel Underneath It All, author Margo Candela uses Restoration Hardware as an example of the furniture used by non-wealthy people to prop up their image within her world's universe, writing light-heartedly of the company's products that it is Way beyond Pottery Barn, but not heirloom quality.
Restoration Hardware Style. I love Restoration Hardware, but… they are a luxury brand. Our master bed is from RH but most of the time the things I need/want are soo… expensive that I just can’t quite push the send button. Believe me I have tried. It’s not just the color, it’s the style, the patina the fabrics, it’s the whole package. The result of this musing is a series of post on how to get the Restoration Hardware look for less. So let’s start by deconstructing RH style into simple parts. RH style has been called the weathered European look.
Restoration Hardware is an American home-furnishings company headquartered in Corte Madera, California. The company sells its merchandise offering through its retail stores, catalog and online. In the 2007 novel Underneath It All, author Margo Candela uses Restoration Hardware as an example of the furniture used by non-wealthy people to prop up their image within her world's universe, writing light-heartedly of the company's products that it is Way beyond Pottery Barn, but not heirloom quality.
Restoration Hardware Style with Chalk Paint®. Yesterdays post was on Restoration Hardware Style, Today we will begin exploring different ways to get the RH style using chalkpaint®. Warning, every piece of furniture we find at the side of the road can not be turned into RH style. Stick to the classics, reproduction pieces with good design and construction. 
I like Restoration Hardware and I love Craftsman style homes, but I’m not sure that the twain should meet. In my opinion, the master bedroom is the only room in this house that is styled appropriately for a Craftsman. While I am typically a fan of Restoration Hardware, some of their items lately are a little too cold and industrial looking for me. I love the outdoor space in the home, but I think the inside would look better with splashes of Restoration Hardware vs. all Restoration Hardware. Just my .02 though.