There are several types of co-polymer. One type is produced when two or more monomers are mixed and polymerized together. Depending on the reactivities of the monomers, they may form polymers with different arrangements of the monomer units (Figure 2). SBS is an example of a block co-polymer. SBS is so named with S referring to Styrene (phenylethene) and B for Buta-1,3-diene. First, phenylethene is polymerized.
3. Synthetic polymers A variety of synthetic polymers as plastic (polythene), synthetic fibres(nylon 6,6) and synthetic rubbers (Buna-S) are examples of man-made polymers extensively used in daily life as well as in industry.There are three different types based on the structure of the polymers. 
Polymers are large molecules, a type of macromolecule. Their chemical properties are similar to those of simple molecules. For example, if the polymer contains a carbon-carbon double bond, as in poly(but-1,3-diene), it will undergo additions reactions with, say hydrogen or bromine. Depending on the reactivities of the monomers, they may form polymers with different arrangements of the monomer units (Figure 2). SBS is an example of a block co-polymer. SBS is so named with S referring to Styrene (phenylethene) and B for Buta-1,3-diene. First, phenylethene is polymerized.
Here you can learn about all different kinds of polymers: stretchy like a rubber band, tough like a football, soft like a sweater, silky and strong like a parachute, and even polymers that are bulletproof!! To find out more, click on a polymer or a topic on the map or on the list below. Have fun! 
Polymers have properties that depend on the chemicals they are made from, and the conditions in which they are made. For example, there are two main types of poly(ethene): LDPE, low-density poly(ethene) , is weaker than HDPE, high-density poly(ethene) , and becomes softer at lower temperatures. Modern polymers have many uses, including: 1  new packaging materials
Addition Polymers. Addition polymers such as polyethylene, polypropylene, poly(vinyl chloride), and polystyrene are linear or branched polymers with little or no cross-linking. As a result, they are thermoplastic materials, which flow easily when heated and can be molded into a variety of shapes. 
They are all polymers! Polymers are very large molecules that are made up of thousands-even millions-of atoms that are bonded together in a repeating pattern. The structure of a polymer is easily visualized by imagining a chain. The chain has many links that are connected together. 
Some familiar house-hold synthetic polymers include: Nylons in textiles and fabrics, Teflon in non-stick pans, Bakelite for electrical switches, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in pipes, etc. The common PET bottles are made of a synthetic polymer, polyethylene terephthalate. The back bones of common synthetic polymers such as polythene and polystyrene, poly acrylates are made up of carbon-carbon bonds, whereas hetero chain polymers such as polyamides, polyesters, polyurethanes polysulfides and polycarbonates have other elements (e.g. oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen) inserted along the backbone.
Natural vs Synthetic Polymers. There are two types of polymers: synthetic and natural. Synthetic polymers are derived from petroleum oil, and made by scientists and engineers. Examples of synthetic polymers include nylon, polyethylene, polyester, Teflon, and epoxy. Natural polymers occur in nature and can be extracted. They are often water-based. 