The number one way to improve the efficiency of any sales team is…. To have a 360 degree view of the customer from all aspects of the customer interactions. Many sales are lost when the sales person is in front of a customer and is unaware that the customer has current issues with their company. The #1 way to improve the efficiency of your sales team is to…. Start by assessing the team’s sales enablement efforts. In many sales organizations, the attempts to enable are actually disabling sellers by creating staggering inefficiencies and, even worse, impairing sales effectiveness.
As a Mary Kay Sales Director your commission is now 9% – 13% on your personal sponsored team members, and another 9%-13% on your Mary Kay Unit. The personal team commission is based on whether you personally place a $600 order in any given month or not. If a Mary Kay Sales Director, unit orders $47,000 in any given quarter and the sales director had opted in for cash compensation instead of the Mary Kay Pink Cadillac, then her monthly cash compensation is $900.
All Mary Kay Sales Directors are eligible to drive a Mary Kay Directors Car which is either the Premier Club or the Mary Kay Pink Cadillac if they qualify. The Qualification for the Premier Club is $54,000 in six months. The same qualification rules applies to your Mary Kay Car maintenance. If a Mary Kay Sales Director, unit orders $47,000 in any given quarter and the sales director had opted in for cash compensation instead of the Mary Kay Pink Cadillac, then her monthly cash compensation is $900.
The sales director commission depends on what your unit is ordering on a given month. $4,000 or more, your make 13% anything less than that, you make 9% and if you miss the minimum $4,000 in two consecutive calendar months, then you will lose your unit and your Mary Kay Sales Directo r title and commissions. If a Mary Kay Sales Director, unit orders $47,000 in any given quarter and the sales director had opted in for cash compensation instead of the Mary Kay Pink Cadillac, then her monthly cash compensation is $900.
5. Key Performance Indicators: The glue of your communication strategy. An integral part of a consistent winning cadence is the tone and the topics of your communications with your sales team. Nothing is more important to sales makers than knowing what is expected of them and when it is expected. Protect their time: You can’t sell if you aren’t spending time with customers. Highly effective sales managers practice good time management habits, and they enable their sales teams to make the most of their time by eliminating demands on their time that don’t directly help drive revenue.
This is just a way of saying that highly effective sales managers don’t rely on theoretical or arbitrary programs to drive sales team performance. Yes, every team should have a sales process and set goals and measure pipeline, but it works best to align those organizational goals to a social network. Protect their time: You can’t sell if you aren’t spending time with customers. Highly effective sales managers practice good time management habits, and they enable their sales teams to make the most of their time by eliminating demands on their time that don’t directly help drive revenue.
How to Write a Sales Plan. Writing a sales plan is an integral part of developing and implementing your marketing strategy. Businesses create sales plans to keep them on track in the day-to-day work of advertising their products and generating revenue. 
Sales Compensation Formulas. After identifying your sales goals and spelling out the vision of success for your sales staff, you need to figure out how your business will compensate the sales force. Some companies pay their sales people with straight salaries; others put their sales people on 100 percent commission. Those are the extremes. The following are suggestions on how to make your sales compensation plan help you meet business goals. 1  Timing. 2  Pull the right team together. 3  Analyze the current plan. 4  Determine whether you need to make changes.
Process: Don’t over engineer it, but don’t ignore it. Every sales team works within a standardized process which defines how to approach, qualify, work with and close the customer. This is a good thing. However, highly effective sales managers know it is possible to have too much of a good thing. Protect their time: You can’t sell if you aren’t spending time with customers. Highly effective sales managers practice good time management habits, and they enable their sales teams to make the most of their time by eliminating demands on their time that don’t directly help drive revenue.