HOME. Location: At 150 Mile House, 25 km (15.5 mi) south of Williams Lake, BC, on Hwy 97, turn east onto the Horsefly Rd. Follow this road 59 km (37 mi) to the village of Horsefly. Click on the lake icon at the right to see full bathymetric map. Click on the moose on the left for complete BC travel information. Location: At 150 Mile House, 25 km (15.5 mi) south of Williams Lake, BC, on Hwy 97, turn east onto the Horsefly Rd. Follow this road 59 km (37 mi) to the village of Horsefly. Turn right and cross the Horsefly River bridge
The Horsefly River and Horsefly Lake were given their names by the miners who came to the area during the Cariboo Gold Rush and were greeted by masses of pesky horseflies, but the village of Horsefly was known as Harper's Camp until approximately 1920 when it was changed to Horsefly. Then in 1887, the area experienced a second boom when Thaddeus Harper built and operated the first of several hydraulic mines and the town became known as Harper's Camp. One of these mines was also known as Horsefly.
The Cariboo district is cattle country. After the forest industry, tourism is the second most important business sector followed by agriculture. Its history goes back to 1859 when here the first gold was discovered in the Cariboo. Horsefly is part of the now well promoted Gold Rush Trail. Today forestry, tourism and ranching are the main income resources. Present day Horsefly has a population of approximately l000 people who enjoy a quiet, rural lifestyle where everyone knows their neighbour and works together.
History. Horsefly wasn't the biggest, but they were the first, when the first gold in the Cariboo Gold Rush was discovered in the Horsefly River in 1859. Following that discovery, miners ventured further north to Likely, Quesnel Forks and Barkerville. 
V0L 1L0 Horsefly, Horsefly, BC V0L 1L0. ...Located 10 minutes from the village of Horsefly, this unique property offers a private 5.84 acres near the provincial park on Horsefly Lake.
Welcome to Horsefly. In the heart of B.C., the Cariboo, you will find Horsefly close to Williams Lake (72 Km, a 45 min drive) Geographically Horsefly is situated in the foothills of the Cariboo Mountains and offers spectacular views as you drive into the village, approx 50 km (paved) from 150 Mile House on Highway 97. Today forestry, tourism and ranching are the main income resources. Present day Horsefly has a population of approximately l000 people who enjoy a quiet, rural lifestyle where everyone knows their neighbour and works together.
Horsefly, formerly known as Harper's Camp, is an unincorporated community in the Cariboo region of British Columbia, Canada. It is located between the Cariboo Mountains and Quesnel Lake. Then in 1887, the area experienced a second boom when Thaddeus Harper built and operated the first of several hydraulic mines and the town became known as Harper's Camp. One of these mines was also known as Horsefly.
Horsefly, BC Once called Harper's Camp, the small community of Horsefly, British Columbia, is situated on the banks of the Horsefly River. Horsefly is said to be the site of the first gold discovery in BC's Cariboo region. Peter Dunlevy, an American, and four friends were led to the Horsefly River by Long Baptiste, an Indian they had met at Lac La Hache. They panned the first gold in June of 1859. 
The first major gold discovery of the Cariboo Gold Rush was made on the Horsefly River by Peter Dunlevy in 1859. More goldseekers soon arrived and a town was built near the site of Dunlevy's strike including several hotels, a store and a post office. Then in 1887, the area experienced a second boom when Thaddeus Harper built and operated the first of several hydraulic mines and the town became known as Harper's Camp. One of these mines was also known as Horsefly.