The author's comments: This piece explains some of the critical symbolism that is within the classic play Cyrano de Bergerac by Edmond Rostand. I wrote this to let the reader know what one of the most important symbols, a white plume, represents. The white plume is one of the recurring symbols in this piece of writing, and its meaning is crucial for a reader&#39s full understanding of the play. In nature, a plume can be anything from a large, flamboyant feather, to a clearly evident trail or column.
Answers. Best Answer: In the case of Cyrano I believe the white plume is a symbol of honor, bravery, integrity and purity. Also the reference is probably symbolic or representing King Henry IV of France. Cyrano refused to be paid by the nobility that paid for poetry, verse. When Roxane meets him at the pastry shop and bares her love for Christian; then Antoine Comte de Guiche speaks of his uncle, the Cardinal who would pay Cyarno, well, if Cyrano would ghost write for him.
Throughout Cyrano de Bergerac by Edmond Rostand, a white plume, or panache, is repetitively mentioned in respect to the main character, Cyrano. The white plume is an important symbol in this play as it enhances the reader&#39s ability to imagine, and recreate Cyrano&#39s character. The white plume is one of the recurring symbols in this piece of writing, and its meaning is crucial for a reader&#39s full understanding of the play. In nature, a plume can be anything from a large, flamboyant feather, to a clearly evident trail or column.
Symbolism, Imagery, Allegory. On the battlefield, the white plume is a mark of military rank, a target for enemy guns. The fact that de Guiche threw his away in the heat of battle means he’s a huge ninny, as if we didn’t know that already. The fact that Cyrano picks it up is symbolic of his staunch courage, loyalty to his country and fellow soldiers, and undying honor.
Cyrano proves as well that he would have fought his way out with all of his pride intact, while wearing his white plume through the dangers to represent this fact. In Cyrano de Bergerac, Cyrano&#39s white plume is mentioned repetitively. It displays his courage, pride, honor, and self confidence. The white plume is one of the recurring symbols in this piece of writing, and its meaning is crucial for a reader&#39s full understanding of the play. In nature, a plume can be anything from a large, flamboyant feather, to a clearly evident trail or column.
The image of the white plume appears several times in the play: for example, in the exchange between Cyrano and De Guiche in Act IV. What might the white plume symbolize in this exchange? What does it come to symbolize at the end of the play? Thinking About Irony 5. 
Answered by jill d #170087. de Guiche's white plume marked him as an officer in battle. He threw it away in a battle with the Spaniards, and Cyrano offers to wear it in his stead, noting that a courageous man would never have removed it. Upon his death, the unstained white plume is all that Cyrano has left...... a symbol of his honor and courage.