New York is a state in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. New York is the 27th-most extensive, the fourth-most populous, and the seventh-most densely populated of the 50 United States. New York is bordered by New Jersey and Pennsylvania to the south and Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Vermont to the east. Two-thirds of New York State's population resides in New York City Metropolitan Area. New York City is the most populous city in the United States, with an estimated record high population of 8,491,079 in 2014, incorporating more immigration into the city than emigration since the 2010 United States Census.
In 2001, the North American Vexillological Association surveyed its members on the designs of the 72 U.S. state, U.S. territorial, and Canadian provincial flags. After the survey was completed, NAVA members chose the flag of New York to be ranked 53rd out of the 72. The shield is surmounted by a crest consisting of an eagle surmounting a world globe. The flag of the state of New York is the coat of arms on a solid blue background. The state seal of New York is the coat of arms surrounded by the words The Great Seal of the State of New York..
A banner below the shield shows the motto Excelsior, a Latin word meaning higher, superior, lordly, commonly translated as Ever Upward.. The shield is surmounted by a crest consisting of an eagle surmounting a world globe. The flag of the state of New York is the coat of arms on a solid blue background. The state seal of New York is the coat of arms surrounded by the words The Great Seal of the State of New York..
The coat of arms of the state flag was adopted in 1778 and the present flag is a modern version of a Revolutionary War flag. The original is at the Albany Institute of History & Art. The shield is surmounted by a crest consisting of an eagle surmounting a world globe. The flag of the state of New York is the coat of arms on a solid blue background. The state seal of New York is the coat of arms surrounded by the words The Great Seal of the State of New York..
The state of New York is often referred to as New York State or the State of New York to distinguish it from New York City, the state's most populous city and its economic hub. With a Census-estimated population of nearly 8.5 million in 2014, New York City is the most populous city in the United States. Two-thirds of New York State's population resides in New York City Metropolitan Area. New York City is the most populous city in the United States, with an estimated record high population of 8,491,079 in 2014, incorporating more immigration into the city than emigration since the 2010 United States Census.
Purchase New York State Flags: You may purchase quality state flags from the United States Flag Store. Flags of the Fifty States and their Incredible Histories: A complete guide to America's most powerful symbols by Randy Howe. The New York State Flag. A modern version of a Revolutionary War flag, today's New York State flag displays the State Coat of Arms, adopted in 1778, and centered on a dark blue field.
Many landmarks in New York are well known to both international and domestic visitors, with New York State hosting four of the world's ten most-visited tourist attractions in 2013: Times Square, Central Park, Niagara Falls (shared with Ontario), and Grand Central Terminal. Two-thirds of New York State's population resides in New York City Metropolitan Area. New York City is the most populous city in the United States, with an estimated record high population of 8,491,079 in 2014, incorporating more immigration into the city than emigration since the 2010 United States Census.
In 1624 the first permanent Dutch settlement was established at Fort Orange (now Albany). One year later Peter Minuit purchased Manhattan Island from the Indians for trinkets worth about 60 Dutch guilders and founded the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam (now New York City), which was surrendered to the English in 1664. 
Interesting Facts. 1  New York City was the first capital of the United States after the Constitution was ratified in 1788. 2  On April 30, 1789, George Washington was inaugurated as the nation’s first president at Federal Hall, located on Wall Street. Introduction. The Dutch first settled along the Hudson River in 1624; two years later they established the colony of New Amsterdam on Manhattan Island. In 1664, the English took control of the area and renamed it New York.