Salary can be calculated many ways. You can break down your yearly  salary by dividing it by the amount of pay periods in which you  work to determine how much one makes per … pay. Or you could take  your salary per pay, and divide it by how many hours worked to  determine the hourly rate in which you are paid. It is the Salary which is the gross pre-tax salary inclusive of all components (monthly, annual, retiral and deferred payments). Current CTC m … eans current drawn salary usually in terms of dollars per year package.
CTC Stands For COST TO COMPANY. It is the Salary which is the gross pre-tax salary inclusive of all components (monthly, annual, retiral and deferred payments). Current CTC m … eans current drawn salary usually in terms of dollars per year package. Expected CTC means salary you are expecting usually in terms of dollars per year package
2. Provides a comparison between your Take Home Salary, Gross and Cost to Company(CTC). This is to highlight the distinction between Gross Salary and CTC. 3. Calculates your current tax saving and helps you identify various tax savings to increase tax savings. The Salary Calculator calculates your PF and EPF to be 12% of your Basic Pay and Gratuity as 4.81% of Basic Pay. If your PF is paid as a different percentage, you need to enter the actual mount paid to you in the PF field for accurate calculations.
3. The Salary Calculator calculates your PF and EPF to be 12% of your Basic Pay and Gratuity as 4.81% of Basic Pay. If your PF is paid as a different percentage, you need to enter the actual mount paid to you in the PF field for accurate calculations.
More Clearly... CTC stands for COST TO COMPANY. this includes: GROSS SALARY + incentives that are provided from the firm. incentives includes many things like meal, medical facilities, phone facilities, house facilities, travel allowance etc. THE SUM OF ALL THE REWARDS AND BENEFITS PROVIDED TO AN EMPLOYEE FROM THE EMPLOYER + THE SALARY IS TERMED AS COST TO COMPANY.
Salary, Net Salary, Gross Salary, Cost to Company are they same or different. For most people it is plain confusion especially when one gets a new job. The excitement of getting first job is punctured on getting the first pay. Gross Salary: is the amount of salary paid after adding all benefits and allowances and before deducting any tax. Net Salary: is what is left of your salary after deductions have been made. Take Home Salary: Is usually the Net Salary unless there are some personal deductions like loan or bond re-payments.
CTC Stands For COST TO COMPANY. It is the Salary which is the gross pre-tax salary inclusive of all components (monthly, annual, retiral and deferred payments). Current CTC m … eans current drawn salary usually in terms of dollars per year package. Expected CTC means salary you are expecting usually in terms of dollars per year package. incentives includes many things like meal, medical facilities, phone facilities, house facilities, travel allowance etc. THE SUM OF ALL THE REWARDS AND BENEFITS PROVIDED TO AN EMPLOYEE FROM THE EMPLOYER + THE SALARY IS TERMED AS
1 Gratuity: 2  Again, forms part of your CTC and is added to your gratuity account annually. 3  It is paid at the rate of 4.81% of total yearly basic salary per year. 4  Make sure you serve a company for at least 5 years to enjoy your Gratuity. The salary and other perquisites (benefits) that your company pays you, are actually cost for them and hence the term. This term is quite prevalent in Indian software companies while making an offer of employment.
What is a CTC salary offered by a company? How much salary will I get each month with a package of 8 lakhs per annum (not CTC) where the base pay is 7 lakhs, allowances are 50k, and the... Accenture is offering me CTC of 4 lakh, 3.69 fixed and 31K is variable. If I do not have any tax saving investments, the rest of my money is taxable. Companies project the annual tax payable and accordingly divide the tax into monthly payments. Apart from income tax, the monthly PF contribution will also be deducted from the monthly salary to calculate the net monthly pay.
Before we can calculate the Net Salary, we should first determine the Gross salary. Gross Salary is obtained by subtracting the Employer's contribution Provident Fund contribution(EPF) and Gratuity from Cost to Company(CTC). The Salary Calculator calculates your PF and EPF to be 12% of your Basic Pay and Gratuity as 4.81% of Basic Pay. If your PF is paid as a different percentage, you need to enter the actual mount paid to you in the PF field for accurate calculations.