Side pain from running is a medical mystery. Photo Credit Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images. Sometimes known as a stitch, a cramp in your side while you run can hinder your performance, whether you're running for speed or endurance. The often debilitating cramp can leave you behind the pack because you need to slow down to attend to the pain. Treatment. When you get a side stitch while running, slow your pace and concentrate on your breathing. Pushing your body too hard when it is not properly conditioned is one of the aggravating factors for side cramps.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pain in the side while running or jogging is called a 'stitch'. It can happen even to the most seasoned of joggers every once in a while. This means that the pain could be emanating from the liver, diaphragm, or other stomach muscles. The diaphragm is a likely candidate to the source of pain, primarily because it is the most active abdominal muscle when a person runs. When the diaphragm contracts, negative pressure is created in the lungs.
Your side hurts because you either twisted it or if you were danceing or something it's because it is a muscle that's not commonly used daily unless your a dancer of some sort … . Nothing is wrong it is natural and most people experence this. Hope this helper :). 2 people found this useful. 
Symptoms. A runner can be inflicted with any number of running-related injuries, from calf cramps to shin splints and beyond. But the side pain from a cramp or stitch is hard to mistake. It often manifests as a stabbing pain felt just under the ribs that doesn't seen to subside unless you slow your pace. Treatment. When you get a side stitch while running, slow your pace and concentrate on your breathing. Pushing your body too hard when it is not properly conditioned is one of the aggravating factors for side cramps.
Unfortunately, both experienced and new runners know that running can sometimes lead to pain and discomfort. A common ailment is the dreaded side cramp that can slow you up or maybe cause you to give up on your run for that day. Definition. Side cramps, or side stitches, usually occur on your right side around your rib cage. While the precise cause of side cramps is unknown, some experts speculate they are caused by changes in blood flow to the abdominal viscera or connective tissue tugging on your diaphragm with each step.
http://wiki.answers.com/Q/Why_does_your_side_hurt_after_running_for_a_period_of_time. Pain in the side while running or jogging is called a 'stitch'. It can happen even to the most seasoned of joggers every once in a while. It means the oblique muscle on your ribcage is not getting enough oxygen and is producing lactic acid,... It means the oblique muscle on your ribcage is not getting enough oxygen and is producing lactic acid,..MORE [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/why-does-your-side-hurt-when-running ]. More Answers to  Why does your side hurt when running 
A side stitch is a cramp or spasm in your diaphragm--a dome-shaped muscle that separates the organs in your abdominal cavity from the heart and lungs in your chest cavity. As you inhale and expand your lungs, the diaphragm sinks down. When you blow out a breath, it expands upward. 
Best Answer: It is a cramp in the muscle. If you are just starting to run on a daily basis or very often, your body is not used to it. When you run, you are using many muscles in your body that you don't use on a regular basis. So your body is trying to keep up but its not used to the excerise. Try to stretch before you run, even your top half. That will allow your muscles to be relaxed and not so tight. Why does my side hurt when I run? I have noticed lately that when I run my right, and sometimes left, side seems to hurt almost to the point where I have to bend down cause it hurts so bad.
It is a cramp in the muscle. If you are just starting to run on a daily basis or very often, your body is not used to it. When you run, you are using many muscles in your body that you don't use on a regular basis. So your body is trying to... It means the oblique muscle on your ribcage is not getting enough oxygen and is producing lactic acid,..MORE [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/why-does-your-side-hurt-when-running ]. More Answers to  Why does your side hurt when running 