Fluorescent lamps require a ballast to stabilize the current through the lamp, and to provide the initial striking voltage required to start the arc discharge. This increases the cost of fluorescent light fixtures, though often one ballast is shared between two or more lamps.
A fluorescent lamp or a fluorescent tube is a low pressure mercury-vapor gas-discharge lamp that uses fluorescence to produce visible light. An electric current in the gas excites mercury vapor which produces short-wave ultraviolet light that then causes a phosphor coating on the inside of the bulb to glow.
The light output and performance of fluorescent lamps is critically affected by the temperature of the bulb wall and its effect on the partial pressure of mercury vapor within the lamp. Each lamp contains a small amount of mercury, which must vaporize to support the lamp current and generate light.
A fluorescent lamp converts electrical energy into useful light much more efficiently than incandescent lamps. The typical luminous efficacy of fluorescent lighting systems is 50–100 lumens per watt, several times the efficacy of incandescent bulbs with comparable light output.
Compact Fluorescent. Compact fluorescents, also known as CFLs, provide as much light as regular incandescent bulbs while using just one-fourth of the energy. For example, a 15-watt compact fluorescent light bulb yields the same amount of light as a 60-watt incandescent bulb.
A compact fluorescent lamp (CFL), also called compact fluorescent light, energy-saving light, and compact fluorescent tube, is a fluorescent lamp designed to replace an incandescent lamp; some types fit into light fixtures formerly used for incandescent lamps.
CFLs are four times more efficient and last up to 10 times longer than incandescent light bulbs. A 22 watt CFL has about the same light output as a 100 watt incandescent. Compact fluorescent light bulbs use 50 - 80% less energy
A fluorescent lamp tube is filled with a gas containing low pressure mercury vapor and argon, xenon, neon, or krypton. The pressure inside the lamp is around 0.3% of atmospheric pressure.
Philips compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFL) provide high-performance, energy saving and long-lasting light. Choose from a range of bulb shapes, applications and color temperatures to create a Lighting ambience that fits your mood.