It is very difficult to generalise on the cost of contesting the will, as much often depends upon the type of the dispute, the number of parties involved and the availability of evidence and quite often the availability of the parties to negotiate or compromise. 
If you have been left out of a Will or if you feel that you not been left a fair amount in comparison to others, you may want to explore the options open to you to contest it. However, you may worry that hiring a solicitor to act on your behalf will be out of reach due to the cost. 
Accordingly, any party considering whether to contest a will should not assume that their costs will be borne by the Estate. As previously stated, inheritance claims can be more expensive than other forms of litigation and in some instances, the costs incurred may be in excess of the value of the Estate. Any party considering whether to contest a will should consider whether their costs will fall within the two exceptions to the general rule. To proceed with an inheritance claim to a final hearing (which normally takes 12 to 18 months from when the claim is issued), costs may well be tens of thousands of pounds.
You might gain enough leverage to get what you want by threatening to contest the will, because litigation takes time and costs lots of money. “A typical will contest will cost $10,000 to $50,000, and that’s a conservative estimate,” says Alexander A. Bove, Jr., an estate-planning attorney in Boston. 
The cost of the proceeding depends on exactly how much more it involves, and is determined by the sum of attorney fees, expert witness fees and all other costs for gathering and presenting your evidence in a probate court. Thus, costs vary widely from one case to another. Probate Procedure. A will goes to probate upon the death of the person who made the will, called the testator. Probate is a court-supervised process in which the estate executor, who is often named in the will, gathers estate assets, pays estate debts and distributes the remaining property to named beneficiaries.
0 users found helpful. 0 attorneys agreed. A will contest action needs to be brought within three months of the filing of the certificate of notice of probate, which is generally filed within one month of the filing of the will for probate. The costs would depend on the particular case. No two will contest actions are the same. A will contest action needs to be brought within three months of the filing of the certificate of notice of probate, which is generally filed within one month of the filing of the will for probate
Probate Costs. The cost of probate may be set by state law or by practice and custom in your community, so it will differ from place to place. When all the costs are tallied, probate can easily cost from 3–7% of the total estate value, and more. The costs may include appraisal costs, personal representative fees, court costs, costs for a type of insurance policy known as a surety bond plus legal and accounting fees. In California, for example, the average estate takes 7–9 months to get through probate, if all goes well, but if there is something like a will contest or some other lawsuit, all bets are off.
Most states restrict the grounds on which a will can be contested. The lack of capacity to make a will or proper execution is grounds in most states; you can contest a will if the testator was not of age, lacked mental capacity or failed to sign the will or have the correct number of will witnesses. However, more common grounds for contesting are fraud, forgery or undue influence. Probate Procedure. A will goes to probate upon the death of the person who made the will, called the testator. Probate is a court-supervised process in which the estate executor, who is often named in the will, gathers estate assets, pays estate debts and distributes the remaining property to named beneficiaries.