Review. Celebrity chef Wilo Benet has been bringing Puerto Rican cuisine to new heights since the 1990s and there’s no sign of him, or his restaurant, slowing down. Through a number of physical moves and menu overhauls, Pikayo has remained at the vanguard of San Juan's culinary scene. Beef tenderloin alcapurrias with garlic aioli, gouda cheese with guava sauce, risotto de gandules with chicharron (peas and crispy chicken), Portuguese octopus with shallot sauce, and jamon serrano, are just a few of the pikadera offerings.
Pikayo is the flagship project for Chef Wilo Benet. The restaurant, created in 1990, has set standards and raised the level of luxury in fine dining in Puerto Rico. Pikayo combines exquisite taste with exclusive ambiance and unique creativity in its cuisine.
Chef Wilo Benet is in a class of his own. This expert Chef goes beyond the traditional in many ways. He is a talented Chef, a keen businessman and a natural leader. His extraordinary vision has taken him to new heights, setting standards in the restaurant industry and contemporary cuisine worldwide. Chef Wilo and Pikayo have been featured on television and in many publications. Recently, Chef Wilo appeared as a guest judge on Bravo's popular show, Top Chef. He followed up that experience by competing alongside other well-known chefs on Top Chef: Masters.
Pikayo is the award-winning restaurant by Chef Wilo Benet located in San Juan, at the Conrad Condado Plaza. The food was by far the best food we had eaten in our week long visit. And anywhere we have dined before. They were very accommodating for my gluten free life. We had the tuna tartar, foie gras, lamb chops, swordfish and chocolate molten cake.
What a great food experience. My wife and I had our best meal in the PR here. My spouse had the Chef's tasting which was fit for the best foodie. She loved it. My meal consisted of garlic soup which I have to say was unique and good. I think that is more of a preference then a complaint. The atmosphere is very formal and beautiful but a bit on the stiff side compared with other locations. The art was intriguing. It was a great restaurant and I would go again just for the food.
This one-of-a-kind restaurant rated the best Museum restaurant in the world, features nu + global mix cuisine, a fusion of exotic ingredients from international cuisine (East Europe and Africa) and traditional Puerto Rican flavors. Chef Wilo and Pikayo have been featured on television and in many publications. Recently, Chef Wilo appeared as a guest judge on Bravo's popular show, Top Chef. He followed up that experience by competing alongside other well-known chefs on Top Chef: Masters.
In 1988, he returned to Puerto Rico to begin his successful career in the Island as Chef De Cuisine at the Governor's Mansion. This set the way to the opening of Pikayo in 1990, a world-class restaurant that has received ravishing reviews both locally and internationally. Chef Wilo and Pikayo have been featured on television and in many publications. Recently, Chef Wilo appeared as a guest judge on Bravo's popular show, Top Chef. He followed up that experience by competing alongside other well-known chefs on Top Chef: Masters.
Pikayo is the flagship restaurant for Chef Wilo Benet. The restaurant has set standards and raised the level of luxury in fine dining in Puerto Rico. Pikayo combines exquisite taste with exclusive ambiance and unique creativity in its cuisine. Chef Wilo and Pikayo have been featured on television and in many publications. Recently, Chef Wilo appeared as a guest judge on Bravo's popular show, Top Chef. He followed up that experience by competing alongside other well-known chefs on Top Chef: Masters.
It is a local favorite and has hosted personalities from around the world.This one-of-a-kind restaurant rated the best Museum restaurant in the world, features nu + global mix cuisine, a fusion of exotic ingredients from international cuisine (East Europe and Africa) and traditional Puerto Rican flavors. The restaurant, created in 1990, has set standards and raised the level of luxury in fine dining in Puerto Rico. Pikayo combines exquisite taste with exclusive ambiance and unique creativity in its cuisine.
“This place offers amazing food that will satisfy any foodie's palette or someone just wanting good old fashion Puerto Rican comfort food. Eat here and spread the word!”. “THANK YOU to everyone at the Pikayo for preparing our wedding dinner -- it was exquisite! Chef Wilo Benet, thank you for taking the time to welcome our guests and talk about the menu you had prepared for them. We still are talking about how amazing it was and how soon we can get back to eat again. The food was by far the best food we had eaten in our week long visit. And anywhere we have dined before. They were very accommodating for my gluten free life. We had the tuna tartar, foie gras, lamb chops, swordfish and chocolate molten cake.