White Blood Cells. White blood cells (WBCs), or leukocytes, are a part of the immune system and help our bodies fight infection. They circulate in the blood so that they can be transported to an area where an infection has developed. In a normal adult body there are 4,000 to 10,000 (average 7,000) WBCs per microliter of blood. 
White blood cells are produced inside the bone marrow and stored in your blood and lymphatic tissues. Because some white blood cells have a short lifespan of one to three days, your bone marrow is constantly producing them. Click to Enlarge. They create antibodies to defend against bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful invaders. Neutrophils. They kill and digest bacteria and fungi. They are the most numerous type of white blood cell and your first line of defense when infection strikes.
The immune system is a collection of billions of cells that travel through the bloodstream. They move in and out of tissues and organs, defending the body against foreign bodies (antigens), such as bacteria, viruses and cancerous cells. There are two types of lymphocytes : B cells-produce antibodies which are released into the fluid surrounding the body’s cells to destroy the invading viruses and bacteria. T cells (see picture opposite) - if the invader gets inside a cell, these (T cells) lock on to the infected cell, multiply and destroy it.
CD4 cells are a type of lymphocyte (white blood cell). They are an important part of the immune system. CD4 cells are sometimes called T-cells. There are two main types of CD4 cells. T-4 cells, also called CD4+, are helper cells. They lead the attack against infections. 
White blood cells (WBCs), also called leukocytes or leucocytes, are the cells of the immune system that are involved in protecting the body against both infectious disease and foreign invaders. All leukocytes are produced and derived from a multipotent cell in the bone marrow known as a hematopoietic stem cell. 
White blood cells. The white blood cells play a very important part in the immune system as it is the white blood cells which directly fight the bacteria and viruses that infect the body. There are three main types of white blood cell: granulocytes, lymphocytes and monocytes. Granulocytes help to engulf bacteria, fungi and parasites. 
Antibody. Protein that is produced by lymphocytes (white blood cells) and that attaches to a specific antigen. Antigen. Molecule on the surface of a pathogen that identifies it as a foreign invader to the immune system. Bacteria. Single-celled organism. Has a cell wall, cell membrane, cytoplasm. The white blood cells then produce antibodies to match the shape of the antigens. The antigens on the surface of pathogenic cells are different from those on the surface of your own cells. This enables your immune system to distinguish pathogens from cells that are part of your body.
The main types of immune cells are white blood cells. There are two types of white blood cells – lymphocytes and phagocytes. When we’re stressed, the immune system’s ability to fight off antigens is reduced. That is why we are more susceptible to infections. There are two types of lymphocytes : B cells-produce antibodies which are released into the fluid surrounding the body’s cells to destroy the invading viruses and bacteria. T cells (see picture opposite) - if the invader gets inside a cell, these (T cells) lock on to the infected cell, multiply and destroy it.