Candle and remove eggs with dead embryos. At the time of transfer, the temperature of the hatcher should be set at 37.2°C (99°F) and the humidity set at 65% (88°F wet bulb). As the hatch progresses, and eggs begin to pip, increase the humidity to 80% (93°F wet bulb), and increase ventilation openings by about 50%. Since duck eggs are larger than chicken eggs, setting trays must be designed to accommodate their larger size. Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used
99.5 degrees Fahrenheit (37.5 degrees Celsius) is optimum incubating temp. for duck eggs with the temp. being lowered by one degree to 98.5 in the last 3 days of incubat … ion (25-28th day). Lowest temp. - highest temp. range is 97 - 102. Duck eggs need to be incubated since layed. Most breeds of duck dont sit on their eggs, until 6 months after starting to lay. Duck eggs need to be at a temp of around 37 degre … es. Duck eggs are bigger than chicken eggs, so they are easy to tell the difference.
The forced air Hova-bator should be operated at 99.25*F and 99.75*F for incubating duck eggs. The temperature should be watched closely during the hatch and adjusted as necessary. As the incubation progresses, there is a temperature increase from the growing embryos in the last 7 to 10 days. Clean eggs keep the incubator clean and give you a higher hatch rate. As you are collecting the duck eggs for hatching, keep them a room temperature of 65* to 75*F and turn them once a day. I put mine in an egg carton, small side down, and support one end of the egg carton on a book. To turn the eggs, I change the end of the carton that is raised
If the incubator is not already in operation, start the incubator and allow the temperature and humidity to stabilize a day or two before setting eggs. Set the temperature at 37.5°C (99.5°F) and relative humidity at 55% (84.5°F on wet bulb thermometer). Set ventilation as recommended by the incubator manufacturer. Since duck eggs are larger than chicken eggs, setting trays must be designed to accommodate their larger size. Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used
1 If the incubator is not already in operation, start the incubator and allow the temperature and humidity to stabilize a day or two before setting eggs. 2  Set the temperature at 37.5°C (99.5°F) and relative humidity at 55% (84.5°F on wet bulb thermometer). 3  Set ventilation as recommended by the incubator manufacturer. Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used.
4. Start incubator several hours before adding the eggs to make sure the temperature stabilizes at 98–99.9 °F (36.7–37.7 °C) and Humidity at 30-50%. I have found that starting my incubator 24 hours before usually allows plenty of time for all the minor adjustments to be made prior to incubation of the eggs. 
Chicken eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Chicken eggs incubate for 21 days. Your countdown for days starts when you put your eggs in your incubator. It does not start when the hen lays her eggs. Duck eggs are incubated at 99 to 99.5 degrees. Mallard and domestic duck eggs (including Ancona) incubate for 28 days. Muscovy duck eggs incubate for 35 days. You start counting your days when you put the eggs in your incubator
We guarantee that at least 80% of the eggs you purchase will be alive at the first candling (after about 7 days of incubation). If you find your fertility is less than 80%, and would like a refund, you need to contact us. . No refunds are possible after that date. We sell duck eggs for one half the cost of the duckling. In other words, if the duckling costs $4.00, the hatching egg costs $2.00. We can tell you our current fertility (normally 85-93%) but we cannot guarantee hatchability.