Hotep Nigga. A Hotep Nigga is a black person who knows nothing about black history oustide of Ancient Egypt. Hotep Niggas will attribute anything and everything to Egypt while ignoring the rest of Africa and the far east. 
Realizing someone close to you is Hotep is a rough insight to have. It’s even worse than finding out your best friend or older sister or favorite play cousin isn’t woke. At least sleep folks can potentially be saved and taught the ways of consciousness. Fret not friends, I have a compiled a short list of ways to tell if you or someone you love is part of “Hotep Twitter.” this list is not all-inclusive but merely hits the general trends displayed by members of Hotep Twitter. Someone may be Hotep if:
Hotep is the Egyptological pronunciation of Egyptian ḥtp (Gardiner p 579 and 617 = law). The phrase m hotep has been translated to mean literally from law peace (Gardiner p 583 and 620 to rest be satisfied, peace, become at peace and at ease) as in the Egyptian philosophy of living the life in Maat. It has special semantic meanings in the Ancient Egyptian offering formula, also known as the ḥtp-dỉ-nsw formula, to refer to the boon given by the king, or the food and goods on which a dead soul was supposed to subsist during the afterlife.
Kiswahili-Bantu meaning: HUTUAPO Always be in a state of peace wherever you are. Researched by FERG SOMO May 2007. I hope this research into the Ancient Egyptian word HOTEP will be of interest and at the very least stimulate discussion. This is an addition to my paper which analysed Ancient Egyptian and Bantu cognates. 
Hotep Twitter is the home of the #StayWoke crowd of men who claim to represent the roots of Africa or whatever…but deep down they display misogynist and homophobic traits. Their statuses make little sense and usually offend more than help. If you’ve never come in contact with one of these Hotep men, consider yourself lucky. Just make sure that you stay aware so you can run for help when they appear. Keep your eye on the Hoteps and #StayWoke.
It is regularly found in the names of ancient Egyptian figures such as Hotepsekhemwy (ḥr ḥtp-sḫm.wj the two powers are at peace), the first ruler of Egypt's Second Dynasty. It is rendered in hieroglyphs as an altar/offering table (Gardiner R4). It has special semantic meanings in the Ancient Egyptian offering formula, also known as the ḥtp-dỉ-nsw formula, to refer to the boon given by the king, or the food and goods on which a dead soul was supposed to subsist during the afterlife.
Hotep is a Khemetic (Ancient Egyptian) term with no direct translation into the American English Language. Hotep is most often used as a Greeting or Salutation. Hotep carries a spiritual connotation Granting Blessings of Divine Peace and the Creator's Favor. Imhotep, the world’s first multi-genius, was called ‘Imouthes’ in Greece and deified as Aesculapius, the Greek god of Medicine.
The hieroglyphic symbol for Hotep is. Hotep appears in the names of ancient Khemetic rulers and precepts like Amenhotep & Mentuhotep. Imhotep, the world’s first multi-genius, was called ‘Imouthes’ in Greece and deified as Aesculapius, the Greek god of Medicine.
Hotep. Peace or I come in Peace it is a common greeting with people well versed in true world history. 
If you have self-identified as a member of Hotep Twitter and you have made it to the end of this post I highly suggest perusing the suggested reading mentioned in the paragraph above. Fret not friends, I have a compiled a short list of ways to tell if you or someone you love is part of “Hotep Twitter.” this list is not all-inclusive but merely hits the general trends displayed by members of Hotep Twitter. Someone may be Hotep if: