Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Vodka is traditionally made from Potatoes, which is not an animal product, last time I checked. Even if somehow a bunny, or something ended up in the mash, it would not be sold because it would throw the taste off greatly. Report Abuse. lol...vodka is made from potatoes hun! Gin is made from Berries! the only alcohol that is slightly possible that could be made from animal residue is beer! due to being made from wheat and any of the little bugs on the wheat haha! * Sapphire * · 6 years ago.
Vodka (Polish: wodka [wódka] , ˈvutka: russian [водка]) ˈvotkə is a distilled beverage composed primarily of water and, ethanol sometimes with traces of impurities and. flavorings It is also commonly used in cocktails and mixed drinks, such as the vodka martini, Cosmopolitan, vodka tonic, Screwdriver, Greyhound, Black or White Russian, and Bloody Mary.
Vodka is traditionally drunk neat (not mixed with any water, ice, or other mixer), though it is often served chilled in the vodka belt countries (Belarus, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sweden, Ukraine). It is also commonly used in cocktails and mixed drinks, such as the vodka martini, Cosmopolitan, vodka tonic, Screwdriver, Greyhound, Black or White Russian, and Bloody Mary.
Yes, there are still a few vodkas out … there made from potatoes,  such as Monopolowa vodka, one of the more inexpensive potato  varieties. The base ingredient ferments and is then distilled so  that the alcohol converts to steam and then condenses. A vegan is a person who doesn't consume any animal products, such as meat, butter, milk, or cheese. They also do not use products that were made from animals, such as fur coat … s.
Vodka is a distilled spirit with a high alcohol content that can be produced from a number of different materials and possess different characteristics depending on the creator. Most produced these days is made from a grain, though some is still made from potatoes. The exact history of this spirit is unknown, though it most likely originated somewhere in the region of Poland or Russia between the 14th and 16th centuries.
The alcohol content of vodka varies widely, as it may be distilled to any level of alcohol. In most cases, vodka that contains 40% alcohol (80 Proof) is the most common, for a number of reasons. Historically, Alexander III of Russia set certain standards for production in his country, one of which was a required alcohol level of 40%. Most produced these days is made from a grain, though some is still made from potatoes. The exact history of this spirit is unknown, though it most likely originated somewhere in the region of Poland or Russia between the 14th and 16th centuries.
Traditionally, vodka is made by the distillation of fermented cereal grains or potatoes, though some modern brands use other substances, such as fruits or sugar. It is also commonly used in cocktails and mixed drinks, such as the vodka martini, Cosmopolitan, vodka tonic, Screwdriver, Greyhound, Black or White Russian, and Bloody Mary.
(August 2011). Vodka sauce is an Italian sauce made from a smooth tomato sauce, vodka, typical Italian herbs and heavy cream, which gives the sauce its distinctive pink coloration. It gained popularity in the 1970s, when a variation won a national recipe contest in Italy. 
(Fermentation means feeding sugar to yeast, so that the yeast can produce alcohol.) Today, most vodka is made from fermented grains such as sorghum, corn, rice, rye or wheat, though you can also use potatoes, fruits or even just sugar. Most vodka is 30 to 40 percent ABV. Rectified spirits, like the American brand Everclear, reach 95 to 96 percent ABV. The first records of vodka come from ninth-century Russia and eighth-century Poland.
Vodka. Vodka is an alcoholic beverage distilled at a high proof from a fermented vegetable or grain mash. Proof is a measurement of the alcohol content. Each degree of proof equals a half percent of alcohol. Thus, 100 proof is that which contains 50% alcohol, 90 proof contains 45%, and so on. Because distilled vodka can have a proof as high as 145, all taste and odor has been eliminated, making vodka a neutral spirit.