Havingblood sugar levels below normal can cause uncontrollable shivering that is accompanied by dizziness, sweating, headache and rapid heartbeats. This condition, also called hypoglycemia, is common among diabetics who are taking insulin. However, there are a lot of other possible causes of chills. Severe, long-lasting shivering may be a symptom of some medical condition that needs more than just a blanket, but immediate medical treatment.
Chills and Shaking. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms chills and shaking including Parkinson disease, Cold exposure, and Generalized anxiety disorder. There are 14 conditions associated with chills and shaking. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions. 
Lower body temp:ANS: There are many causes but the most common reason may be lowered body temperature. Other causes may be the autonomic nervous system. Institution of forced warm air conduction and warm body fluids may help. Some anesthesiologists believe Demerol may reduce shivering but this is debated. ...Read more. Just happens!: Shivering after general anesthesia sometimes happens even if a patient's temperature is normal, usually associated with the anesthesia gases such as Desflurane and sevoflurane.
10 Possible Causes and Treatment for Uncontrollable Shivering. Uncontrollable shivering is often associated with exposure to cold or rapid shifts in temperature. However, there are a lot of other possible causes of chills. Severe, long-lasting shivering may be a symptom of some medical condition that needs more than just a blanket, but immediate medical treatment.
A. Essential tremor (ET) is a nerve disorder characterized by uncontrollable shaking, or tremors, in different parts and on different sides of the body. Areas affected often include the hands, arms, head, larynx (voice box), tongue, and chin. The lower body is rarely affected. 
Some of the common causes of Violent Shivering may include: 1  Cold weather. 2  Hypothermia. 3  High fever. 4  Menopause. 5  Panic attacks. 6  more causes...». 
Uncontrolled Shaking 62 Causes. The freeMD virtual doctor has found 62 conditions that can cause Uncontrolled Shaking. Mouse over to view each condition's most common symptoms. There are 5 common conditions that can cause Uncontrolled Shaking. There are 17 somewhat common conditions that can cause Uncontrolled Shaking.
Essential tremor, sometimes referred to as ET, is a nerve disorder characterized by uncontrollable shaking -- or tremors -- in different parts and on different sides of the body. Areas affected often include the hands, arms, head, larynx, or voice box (making the voice sound shaky), tongue, chin, and other areas. 
Shivering: Introduction. Shivering refers to the shaking of the skin usually related to cold, or the perception of cold. A high fever can also give you the chills and cause shivering, despite a high body temperature, and there are numerous causes of fever. Other types of body motion that are not really shivering include tremor, trembling, twitches, spasms, seizures and so on. 1 Chills. 2  Hypothermia. 3  Cold sweats. 4  Fever-see the many causes of high fever that may cause shivering. 5  Cold sensitivity. 6  Menopause. 7  Panic attack-causes people to feel hot and cold flashes (but usually with numerous other symptoms including panic).
Report Abuse. Uncontrollable violent shivering when you have a fever is called a rigor it is as mentioned your body's way of raising the temperature in an attempt to kill the bugs causing your illness. If your sputum is green, then you probably need antibiotics. This Site Might Help You. RE: What causes uncontrollable shaking when your entire body turns chilly? Last week I begun feeling weak in my joints. Later I became so cold that I began shaking uncontrollably for about five hours, and only stopped after three layers of clothes and under a comforter for five hours.