You will need to pursue a higher education to become a radiologic technologist, so you will have to start here if you do not have this degree already. If you're still in high school and know you want to be a radiologic technologist, then you can try to take courses that can help you succeed in the field. 
There is a high demand for MRI technologists, with employment growing faster than average in hospitals, doctors' offices, clinics, and specialty radiology or imaging centers. To become an MRI technician, you must have an associate's degree, complete a training program, and pass a certification exam. 1 An MRI technician needs an associate's degree in radiologic technology or a related field in addition to 1 to 2 years studying in an MRI technology certification program.
Otherwise, you can also crosstrain, on the job. That is how I became an MRI tech. Getting your certification, as far as how long it takes, if you crosstrain on the job, it's up to you and your employer. Most employers require you to pass the MRI registry within 2 years from the date you were hired. 
MRI technicians are required to have a thorough understanding of their diagnostic imaging equipment as well as patience and compassion for their patients, as an MRI scan can take up to 90 minutes to complete and the patient must sit perfectly still during the scan or an image can be distorted. 
The ARRT offer this type of certification for MRI professionals who hold a primary pathway certification. Beginning in 2016, the ARRT will require candidates for this advanced certification to document 16 hours of structured education. Show me 10 popular schools. 
Salary. According to the US Department of Labor, MRI techs earned a median annual wage of $66,050 in May 2013. The middle 80% of techs surveyed earned between $45,820 and $90,160. Salaries tend to be highest in large metropolitan areas
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), most people decide to earn an associate's degree (www.bls.gov). However, you can opt to earn an MRI certificate, which can take up to two years. You may also earn an MRI certificate by way of a post-associate's degree certificate program. A 2-year program might consist of 66-95 credits. Depending on the school, you may be able to earn an Associate of Science or Associate of Applied Science in magnetic resonance imaging or radiology with a specialization in magnetic resonance imaging.
Step 1: Earn an Associate's Degree. Aspiring MRI technicians will often need to graduate with at least an associate's degree. MRI programs are available at the associate's degree level and will prepare graduates to work as a technician. The program combines academic coursework with laboratory requirements. Step 2: Participate in a Clinical Experience. Students in an MRI program at the associate's degree level will be required to participate in a clinical experience at a hospital or medical clinic. This offers individuals an opportunity to work and learn under an experienced MRI
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technologists utilize the resonant frequency properties of atoms within a magnetic field to image anatomic and/or physiologic conditions of the body to assist physicians in the diagnosis of disease. ARRT certification and registration is voluntary, but certification and registration in MRI may help those seeking a career in MRI. ARRT doesn't provide a list of job postings within the profession. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technologists seeking a position may want to check the ASRT JobBank.
Discover the path to a career in MRI technology...how to get there and where it may take you... MRI technologists are radiologic technologists who specialize in magnetic resonance imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging uses magnetic field and radio waves to produce images of the inside of the human body. MRI tech salaries and advancement opportunities. There is advancement opportunity for the MRI tech, as they can become a chief radiologic technologist, become a supervisor, or a department director. Earning a master s degree in health administration is also an option for more director positions.