Best Answer: Feline pregnancy, or gestation, usually lasts 63-65 days. The length of the pregnancy, from ovulation to birth can vary between different breeds-anything between 58-70 days is considered within normal range. Source(s): swtigger1 · 9 years ago. 63 days or 9 weeks from the date of the breeding give or take a few days. If the cat goes over more than a week though, there's something wrong. sundragonjess · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
The cat gestation period is approximately 65 days. A veterinarian will be able to confirm a pregnancy 20 to 30 days after mating by feeling around her abdomen: This technique should not be attempted at home. Ultrasounds are also available to confirm pregnancy. How long are cats pregnant for (or cat gestation) lasts for about 65 days from the successful mating. Female cats preserve their eggs, only releasing them after mating, making them proficient breeders and so much so that a pregnant cat is almost guaranteed. Pregnant cat care is simple, and require little effort
Early In The Pregnancy: Gestation or the length of pregnancy of a cat averages 64 days. It is generally between 62 and 67 days or about 9-10 weeks. You might notice subtle indications of pregnancy after the first 3 weeks. The cat’s nipples will begin to swell and their color will change from white to a rosy pink. 
If your cat was in heat and had access to a whole male cat, the likelihood that she is pregnant is very strong. A pregnant queen will show both physical and personality changes which will become more evident around three weeks after breeding. The gestation period for cats runs from 60 to 67 days. 
How to Tell if a Cat is Pregnant. Three Parts: Recognizing Signs of Fertility Looking for Signs of Pregnancy Caring for a Pregnant Cat. The typical gestation period for cats is about 9 weeks, and a pregnant cat will begin to display telling physical and behavioral changes soon after becoming pregnant. 
Answer by StellaSerra (217). A feline's pregnancy term can last from 57 to 69 days, the average date of birth is the 63rd or 64th day since conception. Answer by jwalk (389). The normal gestation period for the domestic cat is anywhere from 57 to 69 days, or about 9 weeks. Most vets agree that 65 days is the ideal average term. One of the first signs that a cat is pregnant is that her nipples will become pink and engorged. This usually happens 2 to 3 weeks after
Cat Gestation Period. Cat gestation period varies from cat to cat-much like humans! The average gestation period for cats is about 65 days, with most lasting between 63 and 67 days. Having said that, cat pregnancy can last anywhere between about 57 and 70 days. An easy way to remember the gestation period of a cat is to think of each week of cat pregnancy as equivalent to a month of human pregnancy. So, 9 weeks of a cat pregnancy is 63 days (equivalent to 9 months of a full-term human pregnancy). Even if you know when your cat mated, you can't predict exactly when the kittens will be born... Mommy cat will give birth when she's ready and not a moment before!
How long does pregnancy last and how many kittens will by cat have are two of the most common questions cat owners have. The regular gestation period for cats is between 58 and 65 days, or approximately 9 weeks. A queen (pregnant cat) may have anywhere from 1 to 8 kittens at a time. The average being 2 to 5 kittens.