DMT can be found in many species of plants. Genera such as acacia, anadenanthera, mimosa, piptadenia, and virola are some examples. DMT is also produced in the human pineal gland, a small reddish-gray gland (about the size of a pea) near the center of the brain. One of the functions of the pineal gland is the production of melatonin. The pineal gland and melatonin help regulate sleep-wake cycles (circadian rhythms)
DESCRIPTION. DMT is a powerful, visual psychedelic which produces short-acting effects when smoked. It is used orally in combination with an MAOI, as in ayahuasca brews. It is naturally produced in the human body and by many plants. 
Dimethyltryptamine (DMT) is a naturally occurring psychedelic drug of the tryptamine family. DMT is found in many plants along with the human body. DMT is created in the body during normal metabolism by the enzyme tryptamine-N-methyltransferase and the neurotransmitter serotonin. DMT can be ingested, injected, and inhaled. Dr. Strassman discovered that DMT is released by the pineal gland while a person is approaching death. Thus explaining the imagery reported by survivors of near death experiences (NDE phenomenon). DMT is also released during the 49th day of fetus development. Dr. Strassman attributes this to the beginning of the soul.
N,N-Dimethyltryptamine (DMT or N,N-DMT) is a psychedelic compound of the tryptamine family. It is a structural analog of serotonin and melatonin and a functional analog of other psychedelic tryptamines such as 4-AcO-DMT, 5-MeO-DMT, 5-HO-DMT, psilocybin (4-PO-DMT), and psilocin (4-HO-DMT). DMT can produce powerful psychedelic experiences including intense visuals, euphoria and hallucinations. DMT is generally not active orally unless it is combined with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) such as a reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase A (RIMA), for example, harmaline.
How DMT Works. Dimethyltryptamine, aka DMT, is a naturally occurring substance which is structurally analogous to serotonin. It's made by your pineal gland, it pumped out while you sleep, and is the active component in ayahuasca. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Dimethyltryptamine (DMT) is a powerful psychedelic drug, and a type of tryptamine alkaloid. It is a naturally occurring substance, found in various plants and animals, and in small quantities in the human brain, where its function is unknown. 
Posted by: Abhishek. DMT, short for Dimethyltryptamine, is a compound secreted by the pineal gland of the human brain. The structure of DMT resembles that of neurotransmitters themselves, thereby allowing to break the brain-blood barrier and act as a powerful hallucinogenic drug. Fact 2: The pineal gland's protection DMT is secreted by the pineal gland. This gland saw no constructive use to the body's functioning, according to medical science. But, quite ironic is the fact that the pineal gland is one of the most protected areas in the human brain. Why is it so?
Illustrations by the author. N,N-dimethyltryptamine, or DMT, is an illegal, psychedelic tryptamine compound found in the human body and at least ~60 species of plants worldwide. 
Dimethyltryptamine, better known as DMT, is an illegal psychedelic drug you’ve probably never heard of that is produced by your own body. DMT is created by mixing an enzyme with an amino acid, the latter of which is found in many forms of organic life. But despite DMT being naturally produced in the body, it is classified as a schedule 1 drug, which by law makes it the equivalent of magic mushrooms, peyote cactus, and opiates, like heroin. There is still so much that is unknown about Dimethyltryptamine-the drug produced in our brain that the mind is yet to understand.