Stretch Limo. seats 6 - 12. If you think only celebrities travel in stretch limos you may be surprised to find out how affordable they can be. Perfect for a wedding party, bachelor party or prom, the classic stretch limousine is sure to get you where you're going in style. 
Regardless of the number of seats in a limo, UK laws say that a maximum of eight passengers only can be transported in a limo unless it has a specialised licence similar to that of a bus. So even if there are 20 seats you probably can't fill a limo of that size. 
The two most popular Hummer limos you will find at Limousines.com are listed below: 1  Hummer H2. 2  The Hummer H2 limousine can seat up to 24 passengers as a stretch limo. 3  Hummer H3. 4  The Hummer H3 limousine is a smaller model than the Hummer H2 and seats up to 14 passengers. Hummer Limousines-Hummer Limos. Hummer limousines bring the excitement of professional limousine service to a whole new level. Each SUV limousine is custom-made and is sure to turn heads. Vehicles vary in size but are perfect for accommodating large groups.
The smallest stretched limos can normally carry up to six passengers and the driver. This type of limousines typically follows a basic seating pattern: two seats that are directly behind the compartment, two seats on the side of the limo, and two seats at the back of the limo. You can sit an additional person in the driver s compartment in the front of the car. However, this is usually not desirable. Located at the side of the limo that is not used for seating typically is the bar area and audio/visual system. Meanwhile, the mid-sized stretched limousines can carry up to 10 passengers.
Not having enough room for everyone in the limousine can put a damper on the entire trip. The number of people that can fit into a stretched limo depends on the style and size of limousine chosen. The smallest stretched limousines can typically carry up to 6 passengers and a driver. An additional person may be placed in the driver’s compartment in the front of the car but this is usually not desirable. One of the biggest concerns that many individuals have when choosing a limousine rental is how many individuals will fit into the limousine.
Lastly, the larger stretched limousines can carry between 16 and 20 passengers. However, this depends on the type of the chosen stretched limousine. These limousines are regularly hired by larger groups of people for travelling to venues like sports arena, casino, or reception hall. However, this is usually not desirable. Located at the side of the limo that is not used for seating typically is the bar area and audio/visual system. Meanwhile, the mid-sized stretched limousines can carry up to 1
Often noted as the picture of elegance, a stretch limo typically seats anywhere from 6 to 20 passengers and can be used to transport a group for many occasions including bachelor parties, birthday celebrations, weddings, proms and graduations. 1 Stretch SUV H2 Hummer. 2  This exotic limo seats up to 14 passengers and is sure to leave a lasting impression. 3  Its highlights include a personal bar, strobe lights, lava lamps, as well as entertainment options including a sound system, plasma TV and DVD player.
It depends on the size of the limo, but most of the big limousines are 14 seats, and i think the smallest is about 6, but if you needed a bigger limousine i think they do fancy mini bus' instead, which can hold up to about 20 people. The 4-seat version of the 1972 Lincoln Continental is 22 feet long, but there are stretch limousines that are up to 33 feet long (sub … ject to state and local laws in many areas). One specialty car, no longer being used, was 100 feet long and included a hot tub.
Rolls-Royce Phantom IV Touring limousine, 7 seater for HRH The Prince Regent of Iraq, 1953 coachwork by Hooper. A limousine (or limo) is a luxury sedan or saloon car generally driven by a chauffeur and with a partition between the driver and the passenger compartment. Limousines often have a lengthened wheelbase. It was originally an enclosed automobile with open driver's seat
In Shopping. There is no set length for a limousine. The 4-seat version of the 1972 Lincoln Continental is 22 feet long, but there are stretch limousines that are up to 33 feet long (sub … ject to state and local laws in many areas). One specialty car, no longer being used, was 100 feet long and included a hot tub.