The brachiocephalic artery (or brachiocephalic trunk or innominate artery) is an artery of the mediastinum that supplies blood to the right arm and the head and neck. It is the first branch of the aortic arch, and soon after it emerges, the brachiocephalic artery divides into the right common carotid artery and the right subclavian artery. There is no brachiocephalic artery for the left side of the body. The left common carotid, and the left subclavian artery, come directly off the aortic arch. However, there are two brachiocephalic veins
The subclavian arteries are asymmetric paired arteries that supply blood to the posterior cerebral circulation, cerebellum, posterior neck, upper limbs and the superior and anterior chest wall. 
The large horizontal artery at the base of the neck that supplies blood to the neck, shoulder, upper chest, and arm. The right subclavian artery originates from the brachiocephalic artery; the left subclavian artery originates from the aortic arch. A vessel carrying blood from the heart to the tissues.. Pulmonary arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the right ventricle to the lungs to pick up oxygen and to release carbon dioxide; in contrast, systemic arteries carry oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the rest of the body.
1. brachiocephalic trunk (a.k.a. innominate artery) divides into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. 2. left common carotid a. 3. left subclavian a. These arteries supply blood to the head, neck, shoulders and arms. 
The brachiocephalic artery is a branch off of the aortic arch and send blood to the head, neck, and right arm. Edit. Share to: Ahmadbtm. 3,398 Contributions. Answered. In Human Anatomy and Physiology. 
At this point, it divides, giving rise to the common carotid artery, which carries blood to the right side of the neck and head, and the right subclavian artery, which leads to the right ... Click to read more below. The brachiocephalic trunk is another word for the brachiocephalic artery. The brachiocephalic artery supplies blood to the tissues of the brain and the head. It is the first branch of the aortic arch and rises up to a point near the junction of the sternum (breast bone) and the right clavicle (collarbone). 
Arteries are vessels that carry blood away from the heart. The subclavian arteries supply oxygen rich blood to the arms and also branch out to supply portions of the brain, neck, and chest. There are two subclavian arteries, which originate from different positions. The left subclavian artery extends from the arch of the aorta to the left side of the upper body.
Brachiocephalic Artery. Depiction of the aortic arch showing the brachiocephalic artery. Photo Credit: Reproduced from Gray's Anatomy. Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. The brachiocephalic (Brachi- , -cephal) artery extends from the aortic arch to the head. It branches off into the right common carotid artery and the right subclavian artery. This relatively short artery supplies oxygenated blood to the head, neck and arm regions of the body. 
Subclavian artery. There are two subclavian arteries that supply our arms with blood. The subclavian arteries branch to the vertebral arteries. These carry oxygenated blood up to the brain from the base of the neck. The right subclavian artery is located below the clavicle. It branches off the brachiocephalic trunk. The left subclavian artery branches off the arch of the aorta.