Besides The Horse Fair, Ploughing in the Nivernais is one of Bonheur's best-known paintings, and somewhat resembles Oxen going to work by Constant Troyon. An early admirer was Anna Elizabeth Klumpke, who copied the work in the Luxembourg before beginning a long acquaintance with the artist. The Nivernais, the area around Nevers, was known for its Charolais cattle, which was to play an important role in the agricultural revolution that took place in the area in the nineteenth century.
Rosa Bonheur, Plowing in the Nivernais (or The First Dressing), oil on canvas, 1849. More free lessons at: http://www.khanacademy.org/video?v=kO... (Musee musée'D, Orsay). paris 
Her Most Famous Painting-Ploughing in the Nivernais-Rosa Bonheur. By Annette Labedzki | Submitted On September 15, 2009. French artist Marie-Rosa Bonheur or simply Rosa Bonheur (1822-99) was a renowned 'Realist' painter and sculptor of the nineteenth century. The serene landscape of Ploughing in the Nivernais has Infinite clear blue skies stretching from one side of the painting to the other. On the left side, we can see short brown hills with several dark green trees that enhance the countryside charm of the picture.
An exemplary of Rosa Bonheur's powerful artistry, Ploughing in the Nivernais is currently housed at the Musee d Orsay, Paris. Annette Labedzki received her BFA at the Emily Carr College of Art and Design in Vancouver, B.C. Canada. She has more than 25 years experience. The serene landscape of Ploughing in the Nivernais has Infinite clear blue skies stretching from one side of the painting to the other. On the left side, we can see short brown hills with several dark green trees that enhance the countryside charm of the picture.
She was awarded a commission by the Second Republic, the republican government that came to power in 1848, and unveiled the result at the Salon of 1850, the 8 foot 8 inch wide Plowing in the Nivernais: The Dressing of Vines. Rosa Bonheur, Plowing in the Nivernais. 1849. Oil on canvas. And she succeeded -- when Plowing was unveiled, viewers instantly recognized life in Nivernais. In this monumental work, the oxen stride diagonally to the right and uphill out of the picture, as if to assert their dominance of agrarian life.
Ploughing in the Nivernais (French: Labourage nivernais), also known as Oxen ploughing in Nevers, is a painting by French artist Rosa Bonheur. The Nivernais, the area around Nevers, was known for its Charolais cattle, which was to play an important role in the agricultural revolution that took place in the area in the nineteenth century.
Rosa Bonheur received a French government commission which led to her first great success, Ploughing in the Nivernais, exhibited in 1849. Her most famous work was the monumental Horse Fair, completed in 1855, which measured eight feet high by sixteen feet wide. At age fourteen she began to copy from paintings at the Louvre. Among her favorite painters were Nicholas Poussin and Peter Paul Rubens, but she also copied the paintings of Paulus Potter, Frans Pourbus the Younger, Louis Leopold Léopold, Robert Salvatore rosa And Karel. dujardin
Naturalism was one such challenge, albeit a subtle challenge as its characteristics were pastoral and inviting and not threatening. Bonheur’s Plowing in the Nivernais: The Dressing of Vines is not a history painting, but a scene of everyday life. However, it was accepted by the Academie académie because it is a clean and safe image of The french countryside and its. people During the second quarter of the nineteenth century, many artists shared the belief that art should realistically and faithfully record everyday life. Due to a rapidly urbanizing Europe, the representations of peaceful and everyday country living became appealing and the careers of artists like Rosa Bonheur took off.
Labourage nivernais, also called Le Sombrage [Ploughing in Nevers also called The First Dressing]. This scene, dated 1849, shows the first ploughing or dressing, which was done in early autumn to break the surface of the soil and aerate it during the winter. For all these reasons, this realist work drew almost unanimous critical acclaim. The State, which had commissioned it from Rosa Bonheur in 1848 for the Musee musée De, lyon decided to keep it In, paris at The musee Musée. du luxembourg
Commissioned by the government and winner of a First Medal at the Salon in 1849, today it is held in the Musee musée'D orsay In. paris The Nivernais, the area around Nevers, was known for its Charolais cattle, which was to play an important role in the agricultural revolution that took place in the area in the nineteenth century.