This is the SIC/NAICS Codes page of the Mobile Food Trucks/Services guide.
Or to easily convert a single SIC to NAICS, OR a single NAICS code to SIC, click here. To locate either an SIC code or an industry, just click on the Find in Page function in your browser (in Netscape, just click on edit then find in page) and enter the code or industry you're looking for.
NAICS code 336214 is the government industry code for travel trailer and camper manufacturing. For more information about NAICS codes, visit our NAICS Code Guide.
Breakdown of NAICS Code. NAICS code 336214 is the government industry code for travel trailer and camper manufacturing. For more information about NAICS codes, visit our NAICS Code Guide.
SIC AND NAICS. 1  Developed in the 1930s, the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code is a 4-digit scheme that organizes 1,004 industries. 2  Developed in 1997, the North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS), is a six-digit scheme that organizes 1,170 industries, of which 565 are services.
The Standard Industrial Classification SIC is a system for classifying industries by a four-digit code. Established in the United States in 1937, it is used by government agencies to classify industry areas. The SIC system is also used by agencies in other countries, e.g., by the United Kingdom 's Companies House.
This industry covers establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing truck trailers, truck trailer chassis for sale separately, detachable trailer bodies (cargo containers) for sale separately, and detachable trailer (cargo container) chassis for sale separately.
SIC code 3715 NAICS code 336212. Company profile-Email this company http://www.beallcorp.com. Products: Manufactures Truck Trailers, Stainless Steel Tanks, Pneumatics, Petroleum Tanks, Curtain vans, aluminum Bottom, Truckweld Dump Bodies, End Dumps, Steel Bottom Dumps, Insulated Aluminum Tanks.
Manufacturer of aluminum and dumps pneumatic tanks food grade and non-food gradequate 406, 407, vacuum liquid trailers and body mounts.