As a Geriatric Nurse, you can work in nursing homes, with home healthcare services and in hospice facilities taking care of bedridden patients, those with impaired mental ability, and for patients who are in pain. 
A geriatric nurse practitioner works with an older patient population. Unlike pediatrics, which can deal with anyone under the age of 18, there is no generally accepted age group to which the term “geriatric” applies. Typical Daily Activities. One of the challenges of being a geriatric nurse practitioner is that older patients are much more likely to suffer from more than one ailment. This means that GNPs always need to be aware of new symptoms, drug interactions, and all possible existing conditions.
Gerontology nurse practitioners (GNPs) are advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs) who specialize in medical issues related to aging. They provide advanced nursing care to elderly patients in general or family medical practice settings. 
Geriatric nurse practitioners need specialized empathy and listening skills when interacting with patients and their caregivers. A geriatric nurse practitioner may choose to specialize in caring for patients who are terminally ill. Geriatric nurses may work in home nursing. A geriatric nurse practitioner who works in a hospital or clinic is often responsible for performing initial patient evaluations.
The term gerontological nursing, which replaced the term geriatric nursing in the 1970s, is seen as being more consistent with the specialty's broader focus on health and wellness, in addition to illness. Gerontological nursing is important to meet the health needs of an aging population. A geriatric nursing specialty group was formed by the American Nurses Association in 1966, with the name changed to the Gerontological Nursing Division in 1976.
Nurses who work in the field of geriatrics, also known as gerontology, focus on caring for older adults. This is a high-demand practice area, because older people are more likely to require health services. Half of all hospital admissions are for patients over age 65, but only 1% of nurses are certified in geriatrics. 
Depending on the specific work setting, a geriatric nurse practitioner may be qualified to make diagnoses and prescribe medications without having to consult with a physician first. Many professionals who work in nursing homes and home health care settings are the final authority in the care and management of clients. A geriatric nurse practitioner who works in a hospital or clinic is often responsible for performing initial patient evaluations.
As a Gerontological Nurse Practitioner, you can work at nursing homes, with home healthcare services and in hospice facilities, or run your own private practice. Nurse Practitioners are Registered Nurses who serve as primary and specialty health care providers under a physician. Much like a geriatrician, Gerontological Nurse Practitioners work with elderly patients, diagnosing illness, conducting exams, and prescribing medication.
Gerontological nursing is the specialty of nursing pertaining to older adults. Gerontological nurses work in collaboration with older adults, their families, and communities to support healthy aging, maximum functioning, and quality of life. A geriatric nursing specialty group was formed by the American Nurses Association in 1966, with the name changed to the Gerontological Nursing Division in 1976.