Report Abuse. I wipe the oil paint off my brushes, then I use shampoo and water to clean off most of the paint. For any stubborn bits remaining I use a brush cleaner, I use a brush cleaner on all of my brushes as it restores the bristles and nourishes them. I rarely use synthetic brushes. Rinse and dry with the bristles pointing up. When you use oil paints first use turpentine to remove the majority of the paint. It's not the most glamorous part of painting but it has to be done right away before the paint starts to set in and ruins your brushes.
1 Remove as much paint as your can from your paint brush by brushing it along an old rag or paper towel. 2  You want as little paint as possible still on your brush for a faster cleaning in the solvent. 3  Pour a little solvent into your vessel. 4  I prefer to use an old tupperware or glass jar. 1 Disposable Gloves. 2  Remove as much paint as your can from your paint brush by brushing it along an old rag or paper towel. 3  You want as little paint as possible still on your brush for a faster cleaning in the solvent. 4  Pour a little solvent into your vessel. 5
2. Rinse the brush in the appropriate solvent. It's okay to use the dirty solvent from your painting session. Pour it into a bowl or bucket and gently run your brush back and forth through the solvent to release the paint. You can wipe it along the sides and bottom of the container as well. 1 If you use acrylic (latex), acetone (nail paint remover) or denatured alcohol can be used to save a dried up brush. 2  Simply soak it for a minute or two in acetone, then wash off with soap. 3  Repeat till the bristles are soft and clean. 4  Use tweezers to remove those frizzy hairs on the side.
Don't clean the brush with dish soap; it will gum up the ferrule and bristles. And there's no need to rinse the tool in fresh water. The more often you clean it with the softener solution, the better it gets. Fabric softener coats the handle, ferrule, and bristles, allowing paint to flow effortlessly off the tool. 4. To dry your paintbrush quickly, use a paintbrush spinner to fling water from the brush. Spin the brush in a wet waste bucket. To make one, start with an empty 5-gallon plastic bucket with lid. Cut an 8-inch hole in the center of the lid. Place a plastic trash bag in the bucket and snap on the lid.
Clean paint brushes immediately after use. Do not soak brushes in solvent or water, as this can damage the bristles. Consider using one set of synthetic painting tools for oil-based products and another set for water-based products. It is much easier to clean the paint brushes if you don't switch back and forth between the two types of bases. Do not use a wire brush on a paint brush. While it will help remove the dried paint from the tips of the bristle, it also knocks off the flag (splits) at the end of the bristles. Using a paint brush comb to clean the paint from the inside of the brush will increase the life of the brush.
The best way to determine if there is any residual paint in the brush is to suspend it in a clear container after you think it is clean. Use a string or thin wire through the hole at the end of the brush handle to suspend just the bristles in clean water. Let it sit in the water for about four hours. 
You can clean water-based paint from brushes and paint pads in 10 seconds: 1. Remove excess paint from the brush or pad by scraping it with the edge of a 5-in-1 tool or the teeth of a brush-cleaning tool. 2. 4. To dry your paintbrush quickly, use a paintbrush spinner to fling water from the brush. Spin the brush in a wet waste bucket. To make one, start with an empty 5-gallon plastic bucket with lid. Cut an 8-inch hole in the center of the lid. Place a plastic trash bag in the bucket and snap on the lid.
Two Methods: Mineral Turpentine Laundry Detergent. Cleaning paint brushes which have been used for oil paints or varnish can be a chore and result in dried paint clogging the brush if not done thoroughly. You can also use a lot of turps in the process! An easy and economical way to clean them is as follows. Ad.
After cleaning, remove excess solvent or water by spinning the paint brush or using a mechanical paint brush spinner. Purdy ® strongly recommends the use of a paint brush comb as one of the best ways to clean a paint brush. Do not use a wire brush on a paint brush. While it will help remove the dried paint from the tips of the bristle, it also knocks off the flag (splits) at the end of the bristles. Using a paint brush comb to clean the paint from the inside of the brush will increase the life of the brush.
Best Answer: I just started using Ammonia + Water (warm even better) and it works great removing old or hard to clean paint from brushes and other art materials. Ammonia is stronger than soap so with less you do more; just use a cap of ammonia, add some water, let the brush soak overnight and then rinse it. Rinse and dry with the bristles pointing up. When you use oil paints first use turpentine to remove the majority of the paint. It's not the most glamorous part of painting but it has to be done right away before the paint starts to set in and ruins your brushes.