1 Exhaust hoods. 2  The obvious type of hood! 3  Commercial kitchen exhaust hoods are the linchpins of commercial kitchens, as they at once keep the environment clean, safe, healthy, and capable of passing restaurant and health codes. 4  A good restaurant or other major kitchen is only as good as its exhaust hood allows it to be! 1 The obvious type of hood! 2
Perhaps the most ubiquitous of all commercial kitchen necessities, exhaust hoods can vary widely in their purpose and type. Separate types of hoods are required for different types of kitchens, depending on what foods are being prepared, the quantity of food needed, and the size of the kitchen. Exhaust hoods have uses which extend beyond standard restaurant kitchen use, too. 1 The obvious type of hood! 2  Commercial kitchen exhaust hoods are the linchpins of commercial kitchens, as they at once keep the environment clean, safe, healthy, and capable of passing restaurant and health codes.
In dry heat cooking methods, the food being cooked does not use water to cook the food. The food is left dry and heat is applied to cook the food. Such methods of cooking are: baking, steaming, grilling, and roasting. When heat is applied to the food, the food cooks in its own juice or the water added to the food during its preparation evaporates during the heating process and this cooks the food. With this cooking method, every food is cooked together at the same time in one pot. The flavour, colours, shapes and textures of the different vegetables that are used, makes stewing a handy method of cooking.
11 ® Greenheck airflow volume per linear foot (cfm/linear foot) method The commercial kitchen ventilation industry uses several different ways to calculate the exhaust airflow required to obtain capture and containment. A vast majority of companies, standards, and codes use airflow in cfm/lineal foot. IMC requires a minimum hood overhang of 6 inches from the cooking equipment on each end of the hood, and it is recommended that there is a minimum overhang of 6-12 inches beyond the widest cooking appliance for the front. Greater overhangs will increase
A cafe restaurant or bistro kitchen requires efficient use of space as space is of a premium as the business is usually in a densely populated area, rents are often high, and the operator prefers seating space to kitchen space to maximise profit. Rental kitchens have the features of a production kitchen and some features of the training kitchen. Often a small dining room may be attached so a small dish-wash function would be included, again good access to goods in and out is essential.
3 ® INTRODUCTION A kitchen hood is not just a box. Every commercial kitchen requires ventilation, and in the past, the importance of a proper ventilating system has been overlooked. Today, designers, installers, and operators are recognizing the value in well-designed commercial kitchen ventilation (CKV) systems. IMC requires a minimum hood overhang of 6 inches from the cooking equipment on each end of the hood, and it is recommended that there is a minimum overhang of 6-12 inches beyond the widest cooking appliance for the front. Greater overhangs will increase capture and containment.
There is a wide variety of cooking oils from plant sources such as olive oil, palm oil, soybean oil, canola oil (rapeseed oil), corn oil, peanut oil and other vegetable oils, as well as animal-based oils like butter and lard. Cooking oil is plant, animal, or synthetic fat used in frying, baking, and other types of cooking. It is also used in food preparation and flavouring not involving heat, such as salad dressings and bread dips, and in this sense might be more accurately termed edible oil
Here are some types of exhaust hoods, along with an explanation of their functions: 1  Exhaust hoods. 2  The obvious type of hood! 3  Commercial kitchen exhaust hoods are the linchpins of commercial kitchens, as they at once keep the environment clean, safe, healthy, and capable of passing restaurant and health codes. 1 The obvious type of hood! 2
Types Of Kitchens. The first step in deciding on the size, space and location of your new commercial kitchen is to look at the type of kitchen you need. The type of food you are producing, the place where the food will be served, how the food will be served and the style of service you wish to achieve. There are 7 main types of service that will dictate the kitchen layout and location. Rental kitchens have the features of a production kitchen and some features of the training kitchen. Often a small dining room may be attached so a small dish-wash function would be included, again good access to goods in and out is essential.