Corneal hydrops due to keratoconus. In advanced cases, bulging of the cornea can result in a localized rupture of Descemet's membrane, an inner layer of the cornea. Aqueous humor from the eye's anterior chamber seeps into the cornea before Descemet's membrane reseals. Keratoconus (KC, KTCN) (from Greek: kerato-horn, cornea; and konos cone) is a degenerative disorder of the eye in which structural changes within the cornea cause it to thin and change to a more conical shape than the more normal gradual curve.
1 Keratoconus One of the many eye diseases that can affect the cornea works is keratoconus. 2  Keratoconus is a condition that changes the shape of the cornea. 3  The cornea is the dome shaped c…. 4  Typical Symptoms of a Ruptured Esophagus A ruptured or perforated esophagus is a very serious condition and a surgical emergency. 1 A corneal topographer is a special equipment used to measure the curvature of the front of your eyes. 2  The first part of the eye that light reaches is
Phleborrhexis is the medical term meaning rupture of a vein. phleborrhexis The rupture of a vein is known in medical terminology as phleborrhexis.   phleborrhexis is a rup … tuere of a vein. Peakay Tea. RN, FNP. Answered. In Medical Terminology. Arteriorrhexis means rupture of an artery, but it is not commonly used. The term most often used is ruptured but these can also be called dissected arteries.
A corneal ulcer is a defect or cavity in the two surface layers of the cornea and in a variable portion of its deeper layers. Virtually all injuries to the cornea are painful, even mild, superficial scratches or abrasions that only involve the surface layer. 2. Symptoms: Common symptoms of corneal ulcer include pain, squinting or blinking the affected eye, pawing or rubbing at the eye, excessive tearing or discharge, pus, redness, and behavioral changes such as hiding or avoiding light. Description: The cornea, or front of the eye, has three very important functions.
Myocardial rupture (or heart rupture) is a laceration or tearing of the walls of the ventricles or atria of the heart, of the interatrial or interventricular septum, of the papillary muscles or chordae tendineae or of one of the valves of the heart. Arteriorrhexis means rupture of an artery, but it is not commonly used. The term most often used is ruptured but these can also be called dissected arteries.
The cornea is the outermost, transparent portion of the eye. A corneal ulcer is the loss of cells (epithelium) from the surface of the cornea. Corneal ulcers are characterized as superficial or deep. Superficial ulcers (corneal erosions) are similar to a scrape on the skin; the very outermost layers. Deep ulcers may involve the underlying corneal structures causing a bulge or, in severe cases, rupture of the eye. Corneal ulcers are common in pets, especially dogs. This condition is also seen in cats, notably with concurrent illness, such as Feline Herpes
Descemet's membrane is the basement membrane that lies between the corneal proper substance, also called stroma, and the endothelial layer of the cornea. It is composed of a different kind of collagen (Type VIII) than the stroma. 
1 Keratoconus is a condition that changes the shape of the cornea. 2  The cornea is the dome shaped c…. 3  Typical Symptoms of a Ruptured Esophagus A ruptured or perforated esophagus is a very serious condition and a surgical emergency. 4  It most often occurs due to an error in an invasive medical procedure, such as an end…. 1 A corneal topographer is a special equipment used to measure the curvature of the front of your eyes. 2  The first part of the eye that light reaches is
Definition of Corneal Ulcers. Corneal ulcers are deep abrasions of the clear protective outer portion of the eyeball, called the cornea, and are one of the most painful eye disorders in dogs. 
As the disease progresses, the epithelial bullae can rupture, causing painful corneal abrasions and poor vision. If this occurs or if Fuchs' dystrophy progresses to the point of causing significant vision loss, a cornea transplant usually is needed. 