However, disease is not an inevitable outcome of the host-pathogen interaction and, furthermore, pathogens can express a wide range of virulence. Virulence, a term often used interchangeably with pathogenicity, refers to the degree of pathology caused by the organism. The extent of the virulence is usually correlated with the ability of the pathogen to multiply within the host and may be affected by other factors (ie, conditional).
Pathogenicity vs. Virulence. Pathogenicity refers to the ability of an organism to cause disease (ie, harm the host). This ability represents a genetic component of the pathogen and the overt damage done to the host is a property of the host-pathogen interactions. Commensals and opportunistic pathogens lack this inherent ability to cause disease. Virulence, a term often used interchangeably with pathogenicity, refers to the degree of pathology caused by the organism. The extent of the virulence is usually correlated with the ability of the pathogen to multiply within the host and may be affected by other factors (ie, conditional).
Virulence factors are molecules produced by pathogens (bacteria, viruses, fungi and protozoa) that contribute to the pathogenicity of the organism and enable them to achieve the following: 1  colonization of a niche in the host (this includes attachment to cells). 2  immunoevasion, evasion of the host's immune response. 
The pathogenicity of an organism-its ability to cause disease-is determined by its virulence factors. The noun virulence derives from the adjective virulent. Virulent can describe either disease severity or a pathogen's infectivity. 1 Some virulent bacteria produce special proteins that allow them to colonize parts of the host body. 2  Helicobacter pylori is able to survive in the acidic environment of the human stomach by producing the enzyme urease.
Virulence is, by MeSH definition, the degree of pathogenicity within a group or species of parasites as indicated by case fatality rates and/or the ability of the organism to invade the tissues of the host. 1 Some virulent bacteria produce special proteins that allow them to colonize parts of the host body. 2  Helicobacter pylori is able to survive in the acidic environment of the human stomach by producing the enzyme urease.
virulence. the degree of pathogenicity of a microorganism as indicated by case fatality rates and/or its ability to invade the tissues of the host; the competence of any infectious agent to produce pathologic effects. adj., adj vir´ulent. --And now, the landlady coming into the room, Mrs Waters fell upon her with the utmost virulence, saying, She thought herself in a sober inn, and not in a bawdy-house; but that a set of villains had broke into her room, with an intent upon her honour, if not upon her life; and both, she said, were equally dear to her.
In this expression, P is the probability of an individual developing a disease and is proportional to the number (N) of pathogenic organisms encountered, and the virulence (V) of that organism and inversely proportional to the resistance (R) of the host. Virulence may be described as the “intrinsic nastiness” of a pathogen, that is, its ability to avoid host defenses and cause damage to the host either locally, at the site of infection or at distant points through the production of circulating toxins or by stimulating host cytotoxic reactions.
The ability of bacteria to cause disease is described in terms of the number of infecting bacteria, the route of entry into the body, the effects of host defense mechanisms, and intrinsic characteristics of the bacteria called virulence factors. 1 Some virulent bacteria produce special proteins that allow them to colonize parts of the host body. 2  Helicobacter pylori is able to survive in the acidic environment of the human stomach by producing the enzyme urease.
Virulence: The ability of an agent of infection to produce disease. The virulence of a microorganism is a measure of the severity of the disease it causes. 
The virulence of the organism is due to the presence of two virulence plasmids, one of which (pXO1) encodes a tripartite toxin which forms binary products of lethal factor (LF) and protective antigen (PA) or edema factor (EF) and protective antigen (PA). Bacillus anthracis has a long history of interest to microbiologists. It was the first organism used to prove Robert Koch's postulate: that an organism could be isolated from a diseased animal, grown in the laboratory and then used to infect a healthy animal, resulting in disease transmission.