1 How long does ground beef last in the fridge once it is cooked? 2  Cooked ground beef will usually stay good for 3 to 4 days in the fridge and 3 months in the freezer. 1 After ground beef is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the ground beef will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
Choose packages that are cold and tightly wrapped without tears or punctures. Bacteria continue to multiply slowly in the refrigerator. If you do not plan to cook meat with 2 to 4 days, or within 24 hours for ground meat, wrap and freeze. Defrost meat in fridge, not on counter. Room temperature will allow the growth of bacteria on the surface of the meat, even while the inside remains frozen
Leighanne, if you are not going to be using your (cooked) browned ground beef with in two days, I would wrap it up and put it in the freezer. Anni, No this method is NOT appropriate for cooking corned beef. (This link will show you how to cook corned beef .) I would not recommend using corned beef in lasagna. If you don’t have a thermometer, then just be sure there is no pink on the ground beef. Preheat your fry pan for just a minute or two, on medium setting. If you put the meat in a cold pan it will most likely stick to the bottom of the pan. A good way to preheat your pan is to put a few drops of water into the pan.
1 The precise answer to the question “How long does cooked ground beef last?” depends to a large extent on storage conditions — refrigerate ground beef / hamburger within two hours of cooking. 
1 Ground beef that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; ground beef that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 After ground beef is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the ground beef will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
How to Cook and Brown Ground Beef Cooking ground beef until it's browned and tender is the first step to many of our favorite comfort food recipes, from shepherd's pie to spicy chili. It's a pretty straightforward process, but just in case you'd like a refresher, here's how I do it.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Any cooked leftover last 4 days in the fridge. I looked it up on this site: http://www.wisegeek.com/how-long-will-me... Also, you can freeze cooked ground beef and it will last even longer, like up to a month. What i do is wrap cooked ground beef in sran wrap in little packets (about 4 by 4 inches), and pop it in the microwave for 1.5-2 minutes and it tastes just as good as when I first made it.
Can I refrigerate or freeze leftover cooked hamburgers? How should they be reheated? If ground beef is refrigerated promptly after cooking (within 2 hours; 1 hour if the temperature is above 90 °F), it can be safely refrigerated for about 3 or 4 days. If frozen, it should keep its quality for about 4 months.
If ground beef is refrigerated promptly after cooking, it can be safely refrigerated for about 3 or 4 days. If frozen, it should keep its quality for about 4 months. When reheating fully cooked patties or casseroles containing ground beef, be sure the internal temperature reaches 165 F or it is hot and steaming. Allow at least 24 hours in the refrigerator to defrost a 1 to 1 A½ â½ inch thick package of ground, beef which should be placed on a tray in the refrigerator the day before it will be. Prepared allow 12 hours in the refrigerator to defrost/1 2 to/3-4 inch thick ground beef. patties