Contact dermatitis is a common cause of rashes. Contact rashes occur when you touch something that causes a reaction. Most contact rashes can be treated without the help of a doctor. 1 The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 2  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 3  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 4  dandruff: an itchy, flaky rash on the scalp.
1 eczema: a common rash for people with asthma or allergies. 2  The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 3  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 4  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 5  dandruff: an itchy, flaky rash on the scalp. 1 The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 2  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 3  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 4  dandruff: an itchy, flaky rash on the scalp.
The difficulty in trying to diagnose my skin rash is that the cause can vary substantially from person to person. In addition, a rash can be caused by a variety of sources and this makes it a challenging problem to diagnose this problem properly. A rash is a very common skin care problem for individuals around the world. Almost every individual has had this type of problem at some point in their life. No part of the body is immune to this problem.
A bullseye rash is caused by a type of bacterium that is not found on human skin. It is transferred to humans from certain animals via ticks. A bed bug rash can occur when you have been bitten by bed bugs. The skin condition caused by the bites appears like a number of small hives. A rash is a very common skin care problem for individuals around the world. Almost every individual has had this type of problem at some point in their life. No part of the body is immune to this problem.
A rash means some change has affected the skin. Rashes are generally caused by skin irritation, which can have many causes. A rash is generally a minor problem that may go away with home treatment. In some cases a rash does not go away or the skin may become so irritated that medical care is needed. Contact dermatitis is not serious, but it is often very itchy. Common causes of contact dermatitis include: 1  Poisonous plants, such as poison ivy, oak, or sumac. 2  Soaps, detergents, shampoos, perfumes, cosmetics, or lotions. 3  Jewelry or fabrics. 4  New tools, toys, appliances, or other objects. 5  Latex.
A rash is a noticeable change in the texture or color of the skin. The skin may become itchy, bumpy, chapped, scaly, or otherwise irritated. Rashes are caused by a wide range of conditions, including allergies, medication, cosmetics, and various diseases. 1 The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 2  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease. 3  psoriasis: a scaly, itchy, red rash that forms along the scalp and joints. 4  dandruff: an itchy, flaky rash on the scalp.
A rash may be localized in one part of the body, or affect all the skin. Rashes may cause the skin to change color, itch, become warm, bumpy, chapped, dry, cracked or blistered, swell, and may be painful. The causes, and therefore treatments for rashes, vary widely. 
Rash is a symptom that causes the affected area of skin to turn red and blotchy, and to swell. A rash may cause spots that are bumpy, scaly, flaky, or filled with pus. Rashes can vary in location, pattern and extent and may occur in any area of the body. A chest rash can have a variety of causes, and it may indicate something occurring around the chest itself or suggest a systemic (body-wide) condition.
The word  rash  means a change in the color and texture of skin that usually causes an outbreak of red patches or bumps on the skin. In common usage of the term, a rash can refer to many different skin conditions. A rash can be caused, directly or indirectly, by a bacterial, viral, or fungal infection. 