Purple Rain is not only one of my favorite Prince song, but also one of my favorite songs of all time. However, I have always wondered what the song's title meant. When I thought about it literally, it would be completely weird to see purple rain. I would think that I was high or on an LSD trip. On the other hand, purple is associated with royalty, which connects to Prince's name, his royal purple wardrobe and the pun of reign.. Also, purple rain reminds me of the Jimi Hendrix song, Purple Haze, which was making a reference to psychedelic drugs like Marijuana and LSD.
Prince decided to write a song in that style, and Purple Rain was the result. The album was actually the soundtrack to the first movie Prince made. He went on to make three more, Under The Cherry Moon, Sign O' The Times, and Graffiti Bridge. Purple Rain won Prince an Oscar for Best Original Song Score (not to be confused with the Best Original Score category, won that year by A Passage to India). The song Purple Rain was the centerpiece of the film and a key plot point.
One reviewer wrote on the meaning of Prince's Purple Rain, The desire for the woman's laughing means that the narrator wants the woman to be joyful. The color of royalty has traditionally been purple so this rain must obviously be connected to Prince in his princely mantle. The term purple rain was also in a song by America in 1972, Ventura Highway. Wishin' on a falling star Waitin' for the early train. Sorry boy, but I've been hit by purple rain. Aw, come on, joe, you can always Change your name.
The song is about Prince or someone never meaning to cause the one they care for any sorrow or pain. There is a complicated relationship being described and after all the confusion he only wants to see that person happy and free from confusion in the purple rain. I love this song...but I have no idea what he's tlkin about Purple Rain I never meant 2 cause u any sorrow I never meant 2 cause u any pain I only wanted 2 one time see u laughing I only wanted 2 see u laughing in the purple rain Purple rain Purple rain(repeat 2x) I only wanted 2 see u bathing in the...
Purple is the color of royalty. Rain can be changed to Reign, as in the reign of a King or Queen. So, Purple Reign would the rulership of royalty. This puts an intersting spin on the meaning of the song in context with everything else. Purple Rain won Prince an Oscar for Best Original Song Score (not to be confused with the Best Original Score category, won that year by A Passage to India). The song Purple Rain was the centerpiece of the film and a key plot point.
It's very metaphorical. And let me guide you to the purple rain.... I never meant 2 cause u any sorrow I never meant 2 cause u any pain I only wanted 2 one time see u laughing I only wanted 2 see u laughing in the purple rain Side note. Purple rain; A restless feeling. A non-descriptive feeling of boredom, restlessness and confinement. I love this song...but I have no idea what he's tlkin about Purple Rain I never meant 2 cause u any sorrow I never meant 2 cause u any pain I only wanted 2 one time see u laughing I only wanted 2 see u laughing in the purple rain Purple rain Purple rain(repeat 2x) I only wanted 2 see u bathing in the...
I never meant to cause you any pain. I only wanted to one time see you laughing. I only wanted to see you laughing in the purple rain. The desire for the woman's laughing means that the narrator wants the woman to be joyful. The color of royalty has traditionally been purple so this rain must obviously be connected to Prince in his princely mantle. 
As unalike as the meanings for purple rain might be, the two songs have similarities in that they are both a wistful yearning for what might have been and a realization of the impossibility that the longed for condition could ever be. In fact, the narrator of both songs seems to be the one doing the longing. The meaning of Purple Rain is one of those phrases that divides along age and cultural lines. Although the popularizers of the terms might still be alive, they have not spoken out on the meaning of their words.
Purple Rain  is a song by Prince and The Revolution. It is the title track from the 1984 album of the same name, which in turn is the soundtrack album for the 1984 film of the same name, and was released as the third single from that album. The song is a combination of rock, pop, gospel, and orchestral music. The basic tracks for three songs were used on the Purple Rain soundtrack: Purple Rain,  I Would Die 4 U , and  Baby I'm a Star . Prince performed overdubs while working at Sunset Sound in Los Angeles from August–September 1983.