American Meaning: The name Kerry is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kerry is: Dark. Gaelic Meaning: The name Kerry is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kerry is: Dusky; dark. Kerry county in Ireland. Surname. Irish Meaning: The name Kerry is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kerry is: Descendents of Ciar. The name of a county of Ireland. Used for both genders
Kerri is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ke-rri. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4919 in baby name popularity for girls with 28 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 
Look up Kerry in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Kerry (KER-ee) (alternatively Kerri) is both a masculine and feminine English language given name of Gaelic (Irish) origin. In its original form, Ciarraighe (Ciarrai), ciarraí it denoted the people Of (ciar-ciar). Raighe it was the name of the-Pre gaelic tribe who lived in the area of what is Now County. kerry 
Irish Meaning: The name Kerri is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kerri is: Descendents of Ciar'. The name of a county of Ireland. Used for both genders. 
The different meanings of the name Kerri are: The meaning of the name “Kerri” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. If you consider naming your baby Kerri we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Here are pictures of people with the name Kerri. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Kerri /ker-ri/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name has the meaning black. Kerri is an alternate spelling of Kerry (Irish, Gaelic): from the male name Ciaran. Karri is a common surname. Kreatif forms: Kenri, Kerdi, Kerli. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Kerri for girls. Kerri was first listed in 1950-1959 and reached its top position of #194 in the U.S. during the years 1970-1979, but is not ranked at the moment. (2014 Birth Statistics)
Origin of the name Kerri: Transferred use of an Irish place-name, which is now in common use as a girl’s given name. Alternatively, Kerry is an Anglicized form of the Gaelic Ciardha (black-haired one). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Kerri: | Edit. My name is Kerri (born 1987); and although I NEVER get personalized souvenirs (haha)...I love it. I love the spelling, love that's simple with no shortened versions. Just Kerri.