Eagles are a member of the Accipitridae family; which also includes hawks, kites, and old-world vultures. Scientists loosely divide eagles into four groups based on their physical characteristics and behavior. The bald eagle is a sea or fish eagle. Color-Both male and female adult bald eagles have a blackish-brown back and breast; a white head, neck, and tail; yellow feet, legs and beak; and pale yellow eyes. Examples: patches of white feathers and pale feathers. The bald eagle is the only eagle confined to North America. There are no other large blackish-brown birds with a white head and tail in North American. Skeleton-It weighs about half a pound (250 to 300 grams), and is only 5 or 6 percent of its total weight.
The bald eagle is both the national bird and national animal of the United States of America. The bald eagle appears on its seal. In the late 20th century it was on the brink of extirpation in the contiguous United States. The bald eagle has a body length of 70–102 cm (28–40 in). Typical wingspan is between 1.8 and 2.3 m (5.9 and 7.5 ft) and mass is normally between 3 and 6.3 kg (6.6 and 13.9 lb). Females are about 25% larger than males, averaging 5.6 kg (12 lb), and against the males' average weight of 4.1 kg (9.0 lb).
Q. When did the bald eagle get on the endangered list? When did it get off? A. On February 14, 1978, the bald eagle was federally listed as endangered in all of the lower 48 United States except Washington, Oregon, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan (it was classified as threatened in these states). The species was reclassified as threatened in the remaining states on August 11, 1995. 
Q. What is the exact wing span of an adult bald eagle? A. Northern eagles range 200-235 centimeters (6-7 feet); your southern eagles are quite a bit smaller in all sizes (weight, wingspan, etc). One of the largest wing-spans on record is of a bird with a 243 cm wing span - 7.9 feet! Q. What type of feet do bald eagles have? A. Scaled (featherless) feet with 4 toes, each with a very serious claw (talon). Three toes face forward, a 4th (the hallux) faces backward to aid in gripping prey.
The bald eagle is 30-31 inches in length with a wingspan of 6-7 feet. It has a dark brown body, a white tail and a white head and shoulders. The bald eagle can be found on lakes, rivers, marshes and seacoasts where it can find fish! The bald eagle is a fish eater, although it will also eat birds, small mammals and carrion. It has excellent eyesight and spots its prey from a high perch or from the sky and swoops down and grabs it in its powerful talons.
Click on the images for a larger view. The bald eagle is 30-31 inches in length with a wingspan of 6-7 feet. It has a dark brown body, a white tail and a white head and shoulders. It has bright yellow eyes, a large hooked yellow bill, and powerful yellow legs and talons. The bald eagle can be found on lakes, rivers, marshes and seacoasts where it can find fish! The bald eagle is a fish eater, although it will also eat birds, small mammals and carrion. It has excellent eyesight and spots its prey from a high perch or from the sky and swoops down and grabs it in its powerful talons.
The bald eagle's scientific name signifies a sea (halo) eagle (aeetos) with a white (leukos) head. At one time, the word bald meant white, not hairless. Bald eagles are found throughout most of North America, from Alaska and Canada to northern Mexico. About half of the world's 70,000 bald eagles live in Alaska. Examples: patches of white feathers and pale feathers. The bald eagle is the only eagle confined to North America. There are no other large blackish-brown birds with a white head and tail in North American. Skeleton-It weighs about half a pound (250 to 300 grams), and is only 5 or 6 percent of its total weight.
The bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus, from Greek hali sea, aiētos  eagle , leuco white, cephalos head) is a bird of prey found in North America. The bald eagle has a body length of 70–102 cm (28–40 in). Typical wingspan is between 1.8 and 2.3 m (5.9 and 7.5 ft) and mass is normally between 3 and 6.3 kg (6.6 and 13.9 lb). Females are about 25% larger than males, averaging 5.6 kg (12 lb), and against the males' average weight of 4.1 kg (9.0 lb).
Physical Features of Bald EaglesEagles have a beauty and grace fitting their status as our national emblem. As with most birds of prey, the female eagle is larger and heavier than the male. They weigh an average of 12 pounds with a maximum wingspan of seven feet and a body length of nearly three feet. Bald eagles are lighter than they appear. 