Resting Metabolic Rate (RMR) is a form of metabolism measurement that measures the amount of energy used by the bodies of animals in a relaxed, but not post-absorptive, state. RMR measurements require the animals be in a thermal neutral zone (or a preferred temperature range for bradymetabolic animals) and relaxed. 
What is Resting Metabolic Rate. Your resting metabolic rate is the calories you burn while at rest. If you got up in the morning and went from your bed to the couch and watched TV the entire day, this would be a pretty good estimate of your daily calories. If like most people you are searching the internet for information on your metabolic rate then you will also see many of the search terms show up for BMR, or Basal Metabolic Rate. This term is so widely used though the BMR and RMR are a little different..
Your resting metabolic rate is approximately one kcal per kilogram of body weight per hour. (To find your weight in kilograms, divide your weight in pounds by 2.2.) If you weigh 132 pounds, or 60 kilograms, you will burn 60 kcal an hour. It is important because any calorie intake above this resting metabolic rate (RMR) is stored as fat by your body. The RMR is a good estimate for those of us without access to complex laboratory testing of oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide gas production. The basic formula for estimating RMR at rest is:
This calculator estimates your resting metabolic rate (or. ). Your resting metabolic rate is the the amount of calories that your body burns while you are at complete rest (i.e. reclining with muscles relaxed) to keep itself alive and digest food, but nothing else.
Resting Metabolic Rate Test (RMR). The Resting Metabolic Rate test (RMR) determines the amount of energy (calories) your body is using at rest. This measurement is made by analyzing the amount of oxygen your body uses and the amount of carbon dioxide your body produces. The results of a Resting Metabolic Rate test can tell your doctor if you have an increased or decreased metabolism, and if your body primarily uses fats or carbohydrates for energy. This information can be used to determine the amount of calories you need to eat each day to maintain or lose weight.
You can calculate your resting metabolic rate using our rmr calculator The calculator uses the resting metabolic rate formula in order to give you an estimate of your daily calories. The resting metabolic rate calculator is an ideal tool to help plan your calorie levels in order to lose weight. If like most people you are searching the internet for information on your metabolic rate then you will also see many of the search terms show up for BMR, or Basal Metabolic Rate. This term is so widely used though the BMR and RMR are a little different..
Your BMR (Basal Metabolic Rate) is an estimate of how many calories you'd burn if you were to do nothing but rest for 24 hours. It represents the minimum amount of energy needed to keep your body functioning, including breathing and keeping your heart beating. 
In fact,RMR is likely to be more appropriate for your needs and is the more accurate estimation. If you are looking for an estimate of how many calories you need or burn in a day, we suggest that you use your Resting Metabolic Rate as basic guide. If like most people you are searching the internet for information on your metabolic rate then you will also see many of the search terms show up for BMR, or Basal Metabolic Rate. This term is so widely used though the BMR and RMR are a little different..
At rest, your body burns 1,400 to 1,900 kcal (kilograms) a day. (A kilocalorie is the same amount of energy as a calorie, except that we use the term calories when we're talking about food and kilocalories when we're talking about exercise.) This is your resting metabolic rate.. It is important because any calorie intake above this resting metabolic rate (RMR) is stored as fat by your body. The RMR is a good estimate for those of us without access to complex laboratory testing of oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide gas production. The basic formula for estimating RMR at rest is: