You may take rheumatoid arthritis medications alone, but they are often most effective in combination. These are the main types of RA medications: 1  Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 2  Biologic response modifiers (a type of DMARD). 3  Glucocorticoids. One of the most important drugs in the arsenal for treating rheumatoid arthritis, DMARDs can often slow or stop the progression of RA by interrupting the immune process that promotes inflammation. However, they may take up to six months to be fully effective.
The drugs used to treat rheumatoid arthritis can be divided into three groups: 1  Drugs that decrease pain and inflammation. 2  These products include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), such as ibuprofen (Motrin®), naproxen (Aleve®), and other similar products. Rheumatoid arthritis is a type of chronic (ongoing) arthritis (resulting in pain and swelling) that occurs generally in joints on both sides of the body (such as hands, wrists, and knees). This symmetric multiple joint involvement helps distinguish rheumatoid arthritis from other types of arthritis.
There are a number of medications available that can be used to help stop rheumatoid arthritis getting worse and reduce your risk of further problems. These are often divided into two types of medication: 'disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs)' and 'biological treatments'. Corticosteroids are powerful medications that can help reduce pain, stiffness and inflammation. They can be used as a tablet (for example, prednisolone), as an injection directly into a painful joint, or as an injection into the muscle (to help lots of joints).
Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). A class of medications used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. DMARDs do more than ease the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis like some other treatments. They often slow or stop the course of the disease to help prevent joint damage.
Medications: Most people who have rheumatoid arthritis take medications. Some medications (analgesics) are used only for pain relief; others, such as corticosteroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), are used to reduce inflammation. A class of medications used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. DMARDs do more than ease the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis like some other treatments. They often slow or stop the course of the disease to help prevent joint damage.
Most people who have rheumatoid arthritis take medications. Some medications are used only for pain relief; others are used to reduce inflammation. Still others, often called disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), are used to try to slow the course of the disease. Biologic response modifiers are new drugs used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. They can help reduce inflammation and structural damage to the joints by blocking the action of cytokines, proteins of the body's immune system that trigger inflammation during normal immune responses.
Many people with rheumatoid arthritis rely on a combination of lifestyle changes, medications and alternative treatments to control symptoms and prevent flare-ups. The addition of these changes and alternative treatments can help reduce one’s dependence on drugs, thereby alleviating the side effects of RA medications. 
As with other rheumatoid arthritis drugs, these drugs do not cure the disease but can help slow progression and joint damage. In recent clinical trials, some patients have achieved remission using methotrexate in combination with infliximab, adalimumab, or rituximab. Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are the standard treatments for RA. They are used either alone or in combination with newer biologic DMARDs. DMARDs do not have any common properties other than their ability to slow down the progression of rheumatoid arthritis.
Treating rheumatoid arthritis. There is no cure for rheumatoid arthritis, but treatment can help reduce inflammation in the joints, relieve pain, prevent or slow joint damage, reduce disability and enable you to live as active a life as possible. Corticosteroids are powerful medications that can help reduce pain, stiffness and inflammation. They can be used as a tablet (for example, prednisolone), as an injection directly into a painful joint, or as an injection into the muscle (to help lots of joints).