In the Periodic table, potassium is one of seven elements in column (group) 1 (alkali metals): they all have a single valence electron in their outer electron shell, which they readily give up to create an atom with a positive charge-a cation, and combine with anions to form salts. Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in air and reacts vigorously with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.
The first pesticide product containing soap salts was registered for use in 1947 (1). Potassium salts of fatty acids are produced by adding potassium hydroxide to fatty acids found in animal fats and in plant oils. Fatty acids are extracted from palm, coconut, olive, castor, and cottonseed plants to form this active ingredient (2). Chemicals are considered highly Potassium salts of fatty acids are very low in toxicity by skin exposure (1). Humans Ingestion of high doses of potassium salts of fatty acids may cause general stomach upset and vomiting in humans (7). Potassium salts of fatty acids can be irritating to the skin and eyes (1). Do potassium salts of fatty acids cause developmental or birth defects? Scientists note that potassium salts of fatty acids cause reproductive and developmental effects when administered to laboratory animals at high doses (1, 7). Scientists conclude that potassium salts of fatty acids, when used in accordance with labeling guidelines, will not pose any significant hazard (1
When the alkali is sodium hydroxide, a sodium soap is formed. Sodium soaps are hard soaps. When the alkali is potassium hydroxide, a potassium soap is formed. Potassium soaps are softer and are found in some liquid hand soaps and shaving creams. The carboxylate end of the soap molecule is attracted to water. It is called the hydrophilic (water-loving) end. Soaps. Soaps are water-soluble sodium or potassium salts of fatty acids. Soaps are made from fats and oils, or their fatty acids, by treating them chemically with a strong alkali. First let's examine the composition of fats, oils and alkalis; then we'll review the soapmaking process.
The saponification process is a simple one-step reaction with no waste generated: the glycerin is split off from the fatty acids, and the fatty acids combine with the sodium or potassium to form soap, while the hydroxide forms water. The result is soap, glycerin and water (no alkali remains in our soaps). Aside from making fire and cooking food, “saponifying” oil and fat into soap is one of the oldest and simplest chemical reactions known to humankind. In fact, the first soaps were accidentally made by fat dripping into the ashes of cooking fires. Soap is made by saponifying a fat or oil with an alkali.
Additionally I would rather add potassium to my crops, than sodium. Most soap these days is made from Sodium Hydroxide, it is cheaper and makes a harder soap. The old stuff was made with potash, Potassium Hydroxide. It costs a bit more, but for spraying on the tender leaves of my plants, I want a better grade of soap.
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K (derived from Neo-Latin, kalium) and atomic number 19. It was first isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, from which its name is derived. Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in air and reacts vigorously with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.
Found a soap making book that mentioned that Potassium Hydroxide (KOH) lye can only be used to make hard soap if you use animal fat (lard or tallow) as one of the ingredients. If you do not use them, you have to use Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH) lye or the soap will be liquid soap. Looked it up and a number of sites say that too. Wonder if that is really true and how hard would the soap be if I used Potassium Hydroxide.
Potassium in nature occurs only in ionic salts. Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in air and reacts vigorously with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.