Muscles are how we move and live. All movement in the body is controlled by muscles. Some muscles work without us thinking, like our heart beating, while other muscles are controlled by our thoughts and allow us to do stuff and move around. There are over 650 muscles in the human body. They are under our skin and cover our bones.
Intercalated discs are microscopic identifying features of cardiac muscle. Cardiac muscle consists of individual heart muscle cells (cardiomyocytes) connected by intercalated discs to work as a single functional organ or syncytium. 
Heart muscle exhibits many structural and functional characteristics intermediate between those of skeletal and smooth muscle. Like skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle contractions are strong, and utilise a great deal of energy. Like some smooth muscle, cardiac muscle can contract without nervous stimulation (i.e. it is myogenic) and this enables the heart to be transplanted. Mitochondria are more numerous in cardiac muscle cells than in skeletal muscle, and the T-Tubules are continuous with the cell membrane. These carry action potentials into the cell interior and are well developed in the ventricles of the heart, but poorly developed in both atria.
The cells that constitute cardiac muscle, called cardiomyocytes or myocardiocytes, contain only three nuclei. The myocardium is the muscle tissue of the heart, and forms a thick middle layer between the outer epicardium layer and the inner endocardium layer. Cardiac muscle cells, unlike most other tissues in the body, rely on an available blood and electrical supply to deliver oxygen and nutrients and remove waste products such as carbon dioxide. The coronary arteries help fulfill this function.
Cardiac muscles are the muscles of the heart. They are self-contracting, autonomically regulated and must continue to contract in rythmic fashion for the whole life of the organism. Hence they have special features. The cells are Y shaped and are shorter and wider than skeletal muscle cells. The arrangement of actin and myosin is similar to skeletal striated muscle. Some of the cardiac muscle cells are auto-rhythmic, i.e they contract even in the absence of neuronal innervation (known as pacemaker cells).
Coordinated contractions of cardiac muscle cells in the heart propel blood out of the atria and ventricles to the blood vessels of the left/body/systemic and right/lungs/pulmonary circulatory systems. This complex mechanism illustrates systole of the heart. Cardiac muscle cells, unlike most other tissues in the body, rely on an available blood and electrical supply to deliver oxygen and nutrients and remove waste products such as carbon dioxide. The coronary arteries help fulfill this function.
1 Mitochondria make up, on average, about 1-2 percent of your skeletal muscle by volume, but this is generally enough to provide the needed energy for your daily movements. 2  Whereas your skeletal muscle contains only 1-2 percent mitochondria, your cardiac muscle may contain up to 35 percent. This large volume of mitochondria supplies a steady source of energy right to your heart, and explains why your heart rarely needs to rest like your skeletal muscles do. 
Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. Cardiac muscle cells, unlike most other tissues in the body, rely on an available blood and electrical supply to deliver oxygen and nutrients and remove waste products such as carbon dioxide. The coronary arteries help fulfill this function.
Click to read more below. Cardiac muscle tissue is an extremely specialized form of muscle tissue that has evolved to pump blood throughout the body. In fact, cardiac muscle is only found in the heart and makes up the bulk of the heart’s mass. 