Other aspects of archaeal biochemistry are unique, such as their reliance on ether lipids in their cell membranes. Archaea use more energy sources than eukaryotes: these range from organic compounds, such as sugars, to ammonia, metal ions or even hydrogen gas. Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.
Archaea. Many archaeans thrive in conditions that would kill other creatures: boiling water, super-salty pools, sulfur-spewing volcanic vents, acidic water and deep in Antarctic ice. These types of archaea are often labeled extremophiles, meaning creatures that love extreme conditions. Among these three main types of archaea are some subtypes, which include: Methanogens (meth-an-oh-jins) — archaeans that produce methane gas as a waste product of their digestion, or process of making energy.
Salt-tolerant archaea (the Haloarchaea) use sunlight as an energy source, and other species of archaea fix carbon; however, unlike plants and cyanobacteria, no known species of archaea does both. Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.
Kingdom Archaea •“archae” bacteria= “ancient” bacteria •Contains most of the “extremophiles” •Prokaryotes-no membrane bound organelles •Encompasses 5 phyla, and includes the methanogens and extreme halophiles and thermophiles. •Until 1977 archaea were classified as bacteria. • The majority of archaea are extremophiles. • Acidophile An organism with optimal growth at pH levels of 3 or below • Alkaliphile An organism with optimal growth pH levels of 9 or above• Anaerobe An organism that does not require oxygen for growth.
• Archaea live in extreme terrestrial or marine environments. • The majority of archaea are extremophiles. • Acidophile An organism with optimal growth at pH levels of 3 or below • Alkaliphile An organism with optimal growth pH levels of 9 or above• Anaerobe An organism that does not require oxygen for growth.
The euryarchaeota (you-ree-are-key-oh-ta), which include methane-producers and salt-lovers; and the korarchaeota (core-are-key-oh-ta), a catch-all group for archaeans about which very little is known. Among these three main types of archaea are some subtypes, which include: Methanogens (meth-an-oh-jins) — archaeans that produce methane gas as a waste product of their digestion, or process of making energy.
These microbes are prokaryotes, meaning that they have no cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles in their cells. Archaea were initially classified as bacteria, receiving the name archaebacteria (in the Archaebacteria kingdom), but this classification is outdated. Archaea are particularly numerous in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet. Archaea are a major part of Earth's life and may play roles in both the carbon cycle and the nitrogen cycle.
Many archaea have been found living in extreme environments, for example at high pressures, salt concentrations or temperatures, and have been nicknamed extremophiles. Examples of archaea habitats are boiling hot springs and geysers such as those found in Yellow Stone Park, USA and ice such as the Artic and Antarctic oceans which remain frozen for most of the year.
Most known extremophiles are microbes. The domain Archaea contains renowned examples, but extremophiles are present in numerous and diverse genetic lineages of bacteria and archaeans. Furthermore, it is erroneous to use the term extremophile to encompass all archaeans, as some are mesophilic. An extremophile (from Latin extremus meaning extreme and Greek philiā (φιλία) meaning love) is an organism that thrives in physically or geochemically extreme conditions that are detrimental to most life on Earth.
Not all the archaea are extremophiles. Many live in more ordinary temperatures and conditions. For example, scientists can find archaeans alongside bacteria and algae floating about in the open ocean. Some archaeans even live in your guts. Among these three main types of archaea are some subtypes, which include: Methanogens (meth-an-oh-jins) — archaeans that produce methane gas as a waste product of their digestion, or process of making energy.