In order to measure the carpet area, measure the area of each individual room like bathroom, bedroom, dining room, etc. and add these up. Plinth Area: The plinth Area includes the total area that is owned by an apartment owner and includes Carpet area as well as wall thickness. This includes both the internal and the external walls. Super Built up Area: This area is the total area that a buyer pays for and includes the carpet area, wall thickness (plinth area-carpet area) and any common area including but not limited to the security room, lift, staircase, club house, gymnasium, etc. 
The term `Plinth Area' refers to the entire carpet area along with the thickness of the external walls of the apartment. Best Answer: The term `Carpet Area' refers to the total usable area within the four walls of an apartment or a commercial space, as the case may be. In other words, it refers to the area for which a carpet can be laid if required by the owners
Plinth area built up covered area of a building measured at floor level at any storey. Plinth area is calculated by taking the external dimension of the building at the floor level excluding plinth off-sets, if any courtyards, open areas, balconies cantilever projections are not included in plinth area. Supported porches (other than cantilevered) are included in the plinth area. All floor area of walls at the floor level excluding plinth of sets if any. 2. Internal Shafts for sanitary installation provided these do not exceed 2 sq m. in area air condition ducts, lifts etc. 3. The area of parasites and the area of mufti at terrace level.
In other words, it refers to the area for which a carpet can be laid if required by the owners. The term `Plinth Area' refers to the entire carpet area along with the thickness of the external walls of the apartment. It obviously includes the thickness of the internal walls and the columns, if any, lying within the four walls of an apartment. The commercial space is not taken into account in calculating the plinth area.
Carpet Area is the effective area available for use within an apartment, excluding the area occupied by the walls. It is measured from wall to wall within the apartment and translates into actual floor area which can be carpeted, if required. Super Built-up Area is the Built-up Area plus the proportional share of the common areas like corridors, lift wells, staircase, community halls, security/servant quarters, etc.,.
Plinth Area means the area of the building or the house including the thickness of the external walls. The measurement is taken between one end to the other end of the exterior wall.Krishnadas. 
Built-up area / Plinth Area is the entire area occupied by the apartment, including the area occupied by the internal and external walls of the apartment. Super Built-up Area is the Built-up Area plus the proportional share of the common areas like corridors, lift wells, staircase, community halls, security/servant quarters, etc.,.
In architecture, a plinth (from French plinthe, from Latin plinthus, from Greek πλίνθος plinthos, “brick”) is the base or platform upon which a column, pedestal, statue, monument or structure rests. The plinth usually rests directly on the ground or stylobate. According to Semper, the plinth exists to negotiate between a structure and the ground. Semper's theory has been influential in the development of architecture.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The term `Carpet Area' refers to the total usable area within the four walls of an apartment or a commercial space, as the case may be. In other words, it refers to the area for which a carpet can be laid if required by the owners