Save. Carbon dioxide, or CO2, is a very important molecule. It exists in the atmosphere at low concentrations -- around 590 parts per million by mass. Plants and photosynthetic organisms absorb it and transform it into organic carbon, upon which all other organisms depend
[See Periodic Table of the Elements ]. Carbon occurs naturally as carbon-12, which makes up almost 99 percent of the carbon in the universe; carbon-13, which makes up about 1 percent; and carbon-14, which makes up a minuscule amount of overall carbon but is very important in dating organic objects. Just the facts.
A molecule of the compound carbon dioxide contains one atom of the element carbon and two atoms of the element oxygen. Each oxygen atom shares a double bond with the carbon atom. Carbon is the sixth element in the periodic table and occurs in pure form as coal and diamonds. Oxygen, element eight, is a gas that makes up about 21 percent of the atmosphere. Living things take in oxygen and release carbon dioxide. The oxygen helps turn food into energy, creating carbon dioxide as a byproduct
Structure of Carbon Dioxide. Carbon dioxide is made up of a carbon atom covalently bonded to two oxygen atoms. The oxygens are double bonded to the carbon atom, and they are arranged linearly, meaning that the angle between the two bonds is 180 degrees. Carbon dioxide, or CO2, is a very important molecule. It exists in the atmosphere at low concentrations -- around 590 parts per million by mass. Plants and photosynthetic organisms absorb it and transform it into organic carbon, upon which all other organisms depend
Carbon dioxide (chemical formula CO2) is a colorless, odorless gas vital to life on Earth. This naturally occurring chemical compound is composed of a carbon atom covalently double bonded to two oxygen atoms. Carbon dioxide is produced during the processes of decay of organic materials and the fermentation of sugars in bread, beer and winemaking. It is produced by combustion of wood, carbohydrates and fossil fuels such as coal, peat, petroleum and natural gas.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The chemical formula is CO2 which means that there is one carbon atom and two oxygen atoms. The word dioxide means tow oxygens (di means two) and if there is no prefix, then it means one. So carbon dioxide is one carbon tow oxygen. 
A carbon dioxide is also important to plants as this is used in the photosynthesis process. In fact this gas is involved in a cycle. Plants inhale the carbon dioxide and exhale oxygen; animals on the other hand inhale oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide. This gas is also helpful as well in carbonating cola drinks. 
1 Carbon dioxide (a carbon atom plus two oxygen atoms) makes up about 0.04 percent of Earth's atmosphere, according to the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) — an increase over pre-industrial times, because of the burning of fossil fuels. Carbon occurs naturally as carbon-12, which makes up almost 99 percent of the carbon in the universe; carbon-13, which makes up about 1 percent; and carbon-14, which makes up a minuscule amount of overall carbon but is very important in dating organic objects. Just the facts.
Carbon dioxide is a tasteless, odorless gas that makes up less than 1 percent of the Earth’s atmosphere. It’s a natural product of respiration, and plants use it to make food. Too much carbon dioxide is dangerous. Carbon is the sixth element in the periodic table and occurs in pure form as coal and diamonds. Oxygen, element eight, is a gas that makes up about 21 percent of the atmosphere. Living things take in oxygen and release carbon dioxide.