Your baby’s appetite will vary from day to day and month to month, so try to let her set the pace. Your baby will feed as often as she needs to, as long as you learn to spot her cues and respond to them. If your baby is newborn, she will need to feed little and often, so offer a bottle every two hours or three hours. Let her feed for as long as she wants to. If she's had enough of a bottle, don’t force her to drink more. As your baby grows, she will be able to manage larger feeds and have longer breaks between bottles. Read more about how much formula your baby needs. If you are using expressed breastmilk or ready-made formula, you can warm a bottle in a pan, jug, or bowl of warm water (FSA 2005, NHS 2012d) . Leave it in the water for no more than 15 minutes (FSA 2005) .
In the first few months of life, babies usually feed every 2 to 3 hours or at least 8 times in 24 hours. It is normal for babies to feed during the night. Older babies usually feed less often. Do not let your baby sip from a bottle of formula over long periods of time or at sleep times, as this can lead to tooth decay. Follow your baby's cues. Newborns may drink as little as 1 ounce (30 mL) at a feeding. Most babies drink about 2 to 4 ounces (60 to 120 mL) each feeding during the first month. Babies gradually have more until they are drinking about 6 to 8 ounces (180 to 240 mL) at a time.
On the other hand, if your baby finishes a bottle and starts smacking her lips or begins to cry, she probably wants more. On average, by the end of the first month, she should be taking in at least 4 ounces of formula per feeding. At 6 months of age, she’ll be consuming 6 to 8 ounces per feeding. You can also rely on your baby’s diapers to give you clues on whether she’s getting enough to eat. In the first month of your newborn’s life, she should wet her diaper 6 or more times a day and have 3 to 4 (often more) bowel movements each day.
This article provides breastfeeding tips, with information on breast milk production, knowing when to feed your baby and how much milk a baby needs. Many new mums wonder about how often they should be breastfeeding their baby and how long each feed should last. You might hear about feeding to a schedule and giving feeds at certain times of the day and night. Every baby is different so how much milk a baby needs per breastfeeding session will vary and it’s best to be guided by your child. Your baby will let you know when they have drank enough milk. During each breastfeed, your milk changes slightly so the milk at the end of the feed is more creamy and filling.
While the average newborn will take both breasts at a feeding and nurse every 2-3 hours or more, you have to remember that in real life, there is no such thing as an “average” baby. Every baby is unique, and so is every nursing mother. 
Midwife. In the early weeks, your baby will wake and feed frequently, day and night. You'll probably find that your baby's feeds are spaced unevenly, as your baby's appetite will vary as much as yours does. After the first few days, most young babies feed at least eight times a day, sometimes more. So your baby could be asking for a feed as often as every 90 minutes to two hours. If you're breastfeeding this often, your baby will be building up your supply, as the more she feeds, the more milk you will produce. However, do check that she's latched on well. 
A newborn's tummy is very small, especially in the early days. Once breastfeeding is established, exclusively breastfed babies who are 1 to 6 months old take in between 19 and 30 ounces of breastmilk each day. If you breastfeed your baby eight times a day, your baby will get around 3 ounces per feeding. 
Although most babies settle into a feeding pattern, they vary in how often they want to feed and how much they want to drink. Feed your baby when they show signs that they want it. Babies tend to feed little and often, so they may not finish their bottle. However, a big feed does not mean that your baby will go longer between feeds.
Article Body. Breastfed babies generally eat more frequently than those who are formula fed. Newborns usually nurse on their mothers’ breasts every 2 to 3 hours; as they become older, the time between feedings will increase as the capacity of their stomachs becomes larger. By contrast, formula-fed newborns will start out by eating approximately every 3 to 4 hours during the first few weeks of life. You can also rely on your baby’s diapers to give you clues on whether she’s getting enough to eat. In the first month of your newborn’s life, she should wet her diaper 6 or more times a day and have 3 to 4 (often more) bowel movements each day.
Her advice... Babies will eat as much as they need, when they need to. So if your baby is gaining weight, and appears full after feedings, you are doing fine. I notice that my baby, now 2 wks old & gaining weight perfectly, starts sucking on her hands when shes getting hungry. 