Set up the grill to cook with medium-high heat and let it warm up for 15 minutes with the lid closed; 2 layers of charcoal in the tray suffices. Slide the loin onto the rotisserie rod and set it in the turning rack. Roast the pork for 20 minutes per pound and check the internal temperature in the center. When it reaches 135 degrees F, take it out of the rotisserie and place on a tray. Let it rest for 10 minutes before carving it. 
6. Cook the pork roasts: Put the spit on the grill, and turn on the rotisserie motor. Cook with the lid closed. It should take 30 minutes to 1 hour, depending on the thickness of the pork roasts. 2 1.75lb roasts should be done in about 45 minutes. 
To cook, put roast on rotisserie rod and insert into rotisserie. Cook about 20 minutes per pound, or until temperature on instant-read meat thermometer reaches 145 F. Let sit 15 minutes before cutting. (If I was cooking this in the oven, I would roast at 375 F for 25 minutes per pound, or until meat thermometer shows 145 F, then let sit for 15 minutes before cutting.).
Step 8. Turn the rotisserie on, close the lid and cook for 20 minutes per pound of pork, until the internal temperature of the pork reaches 160 degrees F. Remove the rotisserie spit with pork roast using mitts and let the meat rest for about 10 minutes before cutting. 
Remove the spit from the grill, and allow to rest for 10-15 minutes before removing the roast. Remove the roast to a cutting board, remove the twine from the roast, and slice the pork into 1/2″ thick slices. 2. Prepare and rest the roast: One hour before cooking, mix the rub ingredients in a small bowl. Remove the pork from the brine, and pat dry with paper towels. Sprinkle the rub evenly over the entire roast, working it into any nooks, crannies and seams you can find.
Preheat grill and follow instructions for using rotisserie. Secure roast on rotisserie rod and cook over direct low heat for 3 1/2 to 4 hours. The internal temperature should be 145 degrees F. (63 degrees C.) when done. After the first hour of cooking, apply mop every 20 minutes for the remainder of cook time. Remove roast from rotisserie, cover with foil, and let stand 20 minutes before slicing.
If your grill has vents in the lid, cook the pork with the vents open. 6. A meat thermometer should be used to ensure that the pork loin is in the middle of 160-170 degrees Fahrenheit on each end and in the middle. For pork 160 degrees Fahrenheit is medium well and 170 degrees Fahrenheit is well done. Below 160 degrees Fahrenheit you risk food poisoning or worm infection. 
1 Fit the pork roast snuggly onto the rotisserie rod as dead center as possible. 2  Calculate the weight of your roast by at least 20 minutes per pound or when the internal temperature reaches 160 degrees Fahrenheit. 3  Carefully remove your roast from the rotisserie, of the rod and onto a serving platter. 1 Calculate the weight of your roast by at least 20 minutes per pound or when the internal temperature reaches 160 degrees Fahrenheit. 2  Carefully remove your roast from the rotisserie, of the rod and onto a serving platter. 3  Let the meat stand undisturbed for 5-10 minutes and then carve the meat as usual
(See here for more rotisserie setup details.). 4. Cook the roast Put the spit on the rotisserie, and cook with the lid closed. Cook the pork roast until it reaches 185*F to 190*F in the thickest part of the meat. This should take 1 to 1.5 hours; assume about 25 minutes per pound of meat. 5. 2. Prepare and rest the roast: One hour before cooking, mix the rub ingredients in a small bowl. Remove the pork from the brine, and pat dry with paper towels. Sprinkle the rub evenly over the entire roast, working it into any nooks, crannies and seams you can find.