Detroit Publishing Company. After the Boston Massacre and the repeal of most of the Townshend Duties (the duty on tea remained in force), a period of relative quiet descended on the British North American colonies. Even so, the crises of the past decade had created incompatible mindsets on opposite sides of the Atlantic. 
1 To understand how the French and Indian War pushed the colonists toward independence. 2  To understand the road to the American Revolution. 3  To examine the myths of the American Revolution. 4  To explore the actions that accompanied the colonists’ transition from resistance to revolution. 
Several events did much to bring the American colonies close to war  with Britain. However, the two events which did the most to bring  about the War of Independence were th … e Boston Tea Party and the  Boston Massacre. Enraged over the taxes, Parliament had levied on  the colonies, the Sons of Liberty staged the Boston Tea Party.
On September 5, 1774, delegates from each of the 13 colonies except for Georgia (which was fighting a Native-American uprising and was dependent on the British for military supplies) met in Philadelphia as the First Continental Congress to organize colonial resistance to Parliament’s Coercive Acts. Should Britain fail to redress the colonists’ grievances in a timely manner, the Congress declared, then it would reconvene on May 10, 1775, and the colonies would cease to export goods to Britain on September 10, 1775.
American Treasures. Until the end of the Seven Years' War in 1763, few colonists in British North America objected to their place in the British Empire. Colonists in British America reaped many benefits from the British imperial system and bore few costs for those benefits. During the first two years of the Revolutionary War, most of the fighting between the patriots and British took place in the north. At first, the British generally had their way because of their far superior sea power.
The Declaration of Independence, 1776. By issuing the Declaration of Independence, adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, the 13 American colonies severed their political connections to Great Britain. The Declaration summarized the colonists’ motivations for seeking independence
The American Revolution was a political upheaval that took place between 1765 and 1783 during which colonists in the Thirteen American Colonies rejected the British monarchy and aristocracy, overthrew the authority of Great Britain, and founded the United States of America. In this article, inhabitants of the Thirteen Colonies who supported the American Revolution are primarily referred to as Americans or  Patriots , and sometimes as Whigs, Rebels or Revolutionaries.. Colonists who supported the British side are called  Loyalists  or  Tories .
The first major battle of the war was fought on June 17, 1775, the same day that Washington was commissioned, at Bunker Hill. Three British major-Generals, Sir William Howe, Sir Henry Clinton, and John Burgoyne, commanded the British troops. Sugar Act of 1764 cut duty on molasses; levied new duties on foreign textiles, wines, coffee, indigo, sugar. NOTE: This was the first attempt by Parliament to raise revenue directly from colonies. Previous duties had been solely for the purpose of regulating trade.
One of the main reasons is taxes. Britain had just fought the French and Indian War, and because of it was in debt. England decided that since it was fought on American soil, … then it was fair to make the colonists pay for it. Regarding Parliament, the colonists were being heavily taxed with acts such as the sugar act, stamp act, and eventually the townsend acts which basically taxed evry single item on the market. There were other acts like quartering soldiers in houses and etc.
The 1770 Boston Massacre was only one in a series of events that led American colonists to revolt against Britain. This was not the first time American colonists found themselves in dispute with Great Britain. But this time the cooler heads did not prevail. Much happened between the years of 1763 and 1776. The colonists felt unfairly taxed, watched over like children, and ignored in their attempts to address grievances. Religious issues rose to the surface, political ideals crystallized, and, as always, economics were the essence of many debates.