For the treatment of occasional constipation (irregularity). This product should be used for 7 days or less or as directed by a physician. The usual dose is 17 grams (about 1 heaping tablespoon) of powder per day (or as directed by physician) in 4 to 8 ounces of water. Each bottle of MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350 - otc) is supplied with a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of laxative powder when filled to the indicated line. One to 3 days (24 to 72 hours) may be required to produce a bowel movement.
An Introduction to Dosing With MiraLAX. The recommended dosage of MiraLAX for treating occasional constipation is 17 grams (about one heaping tablespoon) of powder dissolved in four to eight ounces of liquid and swallowed once a day. The product information for MiraLAX states that this laxative should not be used for more than seven days. Although some people may need to use it for a longer period, it is a good idea to check with your healthcare provider before using the medicine long-term.
Miralax (polyethylene glycol 3350) is an osmotic laxative, which means that it helps to produce a bowel movement by drawing more water to waste matter in the colon. miralax. Miralax (polyethylene glycol 3350) is an osmotic laxative, which means that it helps to produce a bowel movement by drawing more water to waste matter in the colon. It used to be a prescription-only drug but is now available over the counter.
MiraLAX is the brand name for the generic drug polyethylene glycol 3350,a laxative used to treat occasional constipation. The drug works by bringing water into the bowels, which helps keep the digestive system regular. Stool becomes softer when the bowels retain water. A: Miralax (polyethylene glycol) is an osmotic laxative used to treat constipation. Miralax works by bringing water into the stool which softens the stool and helps it to be passed. Miralax is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for occasional constipation
A: Miralax (Polyethylene Glycol 3350) is a laxative that increases the amount of water in the intestines. Miralax is used to treat occasional constipation and irregular bowel movements. Measure the dose of Miralax with the medicine cap on the bottle. A: Miralax (polyethylene glycol) is an osmotic laxative used to treat constipation. Miralax works by bringing water into the stool which softens the stool and helps it to be passed. Miralax is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for occasional constipation
Summary. Miralax child dosage may varies based on the child age. A 4yr old and 33lbs is on it per the Doctor and he gets 3/4 tablespoon twice a day for constipation. Another mom gave a 19 month/26 pound daughter 1/2 the adult dosage which is 1/2 the cap.
MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350 - otc) is available in two sizes; a 8.3 oz. container and a 4.1 oz. container of laxative powder. The cap on each bottle is marked with a measuring line and may be used to measure a single MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350 - otc) dose of 17 grams (about 1 heaping tablespoon). STORAGE. Each bottle of MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350 - otc) is supplied with a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of laxative powder when filled to the indicated line. One to 3 days (24 to 72 hours) may be required to produce a bowel movement.
All these things work for a while, then stop working, in my experience. Miralax is the last chance for me. Some doctors I have seen already want to do a colostomy. From what I read on the package directions, the dosage is 17 grams of Ducolax powder in 4-8 ounces of water once a day. 
This medication is used to treat occasional constipation. It works by holding water in the stool to soften the stool and increases the number of bowel movements. It is known as an osmotic-type laxative. How to use Miralax. Take by mouth usually once daily, or as directed by your doctor or the directions on the product package. If you are prescribed the individual packets, mix the powder as directed by your doctor or pharmacist.