Artist Michael Nozinich has reimagined the 25-year-old singer's famous girl squad as superheroes, drawing illustrations of a number of Swift's BFFs including Selena Gomez, Lorde, Karlie Kloss, Gigi Hadid and more. Meanwhile, the Shake It Off stunner's latest heroic act comes in the form of a $50,000 donation, which she gave to a GoFundMe page created for her dancer's infant nephew, who is battling cancer. Baby Ayden, I'm lucky enough to perform with your uncle Toshi on tour, she wrote on the site.
PHOTOS: Selena Gomez's sexy swimsuit pics. The singer finds support from her family and friends. Among her pals: Taylor Swift, who has a star-studded squad of female besties. Especially now, they're just constantly pinning women against other women, Gomez said on the show. It's really annoying. So now I think it's changing a little bit.
Overview (4). Selena Marie Gomez was born and raised in Grand Prairie, Texas, to Mandy Teefey, who is of part Italian descent, and Ricardo Gomez, who is of Mexican descent and originally from New Mexico. Her parents divorced in 1997. Her parents divorced when she was five years old. She was named after Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez, pérez who died almost three years After gomez was. Born she went To Danny Jones Middle school located In. Texas her first name means moon In. Greek she is a huge fan Of Johnny depp And Lady. sovereign
She just wants everyone to get along. She says she wants new beginnings on her birthday!”. Kylie Jenner reportedly wants to join Taylor Swift and Selena Gomez’s squad. New reports are claiming that the 17-year-old has invited both of the singers to her 18th birthday party. Since the Jenner teen is turning 18 on August 10, she wants to have an exclusive party with big name celebrities. Apparently, she also invited Selena Gomez’s ex-boyfriend, Justin Bieber. “Kylie has invited both Selena and Taylor to her birthday bash. Obviously, Justin has been invited as well. Kylie had told her sisters that for her 18th birthday she wants to move on from any past fights and not have negativity in her life.”.
@scandreapark. By Andrea Park. Looks like there's bad blood brewing in squad land! On Friday's episode of The Ellen DeGeneres Show, DeGeneres introduces her own super group to rival pretend frenemy Taylor Swift 's powerful #squad.  Kendall Jenner is in [Taylor's] squad, Selena Gomez is in it, DeGeneres says
Naturally, all eyes were searching for Bieber's ex-girlfriend Selena Gomez, who was attending the show alongside her pal Taylor Swift and the Bad Blood squad. 
Selena Marie Gomez was born and raised in Grand Prairie, Texas, to Mandy Teefey, who is of part Italian descent, and Ricardo Gomez, who is of Mexican descent and originally from New Mexico. Her parents divorced in 1997. Giving birth to Selena at 16, her mom Mandy recalls living paycheck-to-paycheck. 
Mini Bio (1). Selena Marie Gomez was born and raised in Grand Prairie, Texas, to Mandy Teefey, who is of part Italian descent, and Ricardo Gomez, who is of Mexican descent and originally from New Mexico. Her parents divorced in 1997. Her parents divorced when she was five years old. She was named after Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez, pérez who died almost three years After gomez was. Born she went To Danny Jones Middle school located In. Texas her first name means moon In. Greek she is a huge fan Of Johnny depp And Lady. sovereign