Ethnocentrism. Closely related to the concept of cultural relativity is the concept of ethnocentrism. The world ethno comes from Greek and refers to a people, nation, or cultural grouping, while centric comes from Latin and refers, of course to the centre. 
Please define and compare and contrast ETHNOCENTRISM and CULTURAL RELATIVISM. Discuss how you have experienced OR witnessed both concepts in our American Society. Ethnocentrism is viewing your own culture as more superior than any other culture, that all other groups are measured in relation to one’s own. Ethnocentrism can lead to cultural misinterpretation and it often distorts communication between human beings. These ethnic distinctions and sub-divisions serve to define each ethnicity's unique cultural identity.[. Cultural relativism is the principle that an individual human's beliefs and activities should be understood by others in terms of that individual's own culture.
Protective Belt. Donut shaped visual of described as the Thinking Reasoning Perception Attribution Judgment Memory Attitudes Stereotypes. In the hole is this statement: Zero-order beliefs, values Metaphysical core . Repelled off outside hull (1) incoming stimuli bounce back and do not affect core. Seeing levels of Ethnocentrism at work (3). Base=Structures: basic blocks, values, core being (at the core are ontological, sub-structural analytical shapings) Mid=Processes: cognitions, emotions, motivations Top=Events: trivial, behavioral display (at the surface are event-oriented behaviors).
Ethnocentrism is a commonly used word in circles where ethnicity, inter-ethnic relations, and similar social issues are of concern. The usual definition of the term is thinking one's own group's ways are superior to others or judging other groups as inferior to one's own. 
Introduction. Ethnocentrism is a term applied to the cultural or ethnic bias—whether conscious or unconscious—in which an individual views the world from the perspective of his or her own group, establishing the in-group as archetypal and rating all other groups with reference to this ideal. 
Ethnocentrism is the tendency to believe that one's ethnic or cultural group is centrally important, and that all other groups are measured in relation to one's own. These ethnic distinctions and sub-divisions serve to define each ethnicity's unique cultural identity.[. Cultural relativism is the principle that an individual human's beliefs and activities should be understood by others in terms of that individual's own culture.
Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values and standards of one's own culture. Ethnocentric individuals judge other groups relative to their own ethnic group or culture, especially with concern for language, behavior, customs, and religion. These ethnic distinctions and subdivisions serve to define each ethnicity 's unique cultural identity. Ethnocentrism may be overt or subtle, and while it is considered a natural proclivity of human psychology, it has developed a generally negative connotation
Print Email Save. Ethnocentrism is the view that one’s ethnicity is better than the others. The other cultures are evaluated on the basis of one’s own beliefs relating to customs, behavior, language and religion. The concern with the superiority of one’s race and culture is overriding. 
Xenocentrism The opposite of ethnocentrism is xenocentrism which means preferring ideas and things from other cultures over ideas and things from your own culture. At the heart of xenocentrism is an assumption that other cultures are superior to your own. Links to other Internet information on ethnocentrism. We are ethnocentric when we use our cultural norms to make generalizations about other peoples' cultures and customs. Such generalizations -- often made without a conscious awareness that we've used our culture as a universal yardstick -- can be way off base and cause us to misjudge other peoples.
The opposite of ethnocentrism is xenocentrism which means preferring ideas and things from other cultures over ideas and things from your own culture. At the heart of xenocentrism is an assumption that other cultures are superior to your own. We are ethnocentric when we use our cultural norms to make generalizations about other peoples' cultures and customs. Such generalizations -- often made without a conscious awareness that we've used our culture as a universal yardstick -- can be way off base and cause us to misjudge other peoples.