Unfortunately its not possible to change the default browser in immersive mode. The immersive mode is mainly designed for the phones, Tablets and Touch User Interface and hence the Internet Explorer app is set as the default browser.
If you have a browser other than Internet Explorer set as the default, Internet Explorer will open in the Desktop mode, which looks similar to Internet Explorer 9. Additionally, your Internet Explorer tile will have a smaller “e” and the words “Internet Explorer” will appear over it.
Please try again later. Using the immersive browser mode of IE is great for the classroom because it allows you to see web pages without all the tool bars, menus, and address bars from the desktop mode. As teachers, the more distractions we can eliminate the better.
One clue to the Immersive UI, however, exists in a new Immersive version of Internet Explorer, which looks and works much like Windows Phone's IE Mobile, but uses the desktop IE 9 renderer.
WinSuperSite now has some images showing a new Internet Explorer-powered UI mode that is being referred to as Immersive.. A big clue to what the Immersive UI will be like is Internet Explorer, which takes on a look that's much like the IE Mobile browser in Windows Phone. The Internet Explorer Immersive mode in current builds is locked to a view that is at 640x480, indicating its not-yet-finished state.
With Windows 8.1 and Internet Explorer 11 a few nice tweaks were introduced to the Immersive Browser experience. Here are some highlights! For step-by-step concise instructions on using Internet Explorer, check out our IE11 Quick Reference Card (#1 Best Seller in Amazon’s “Microsoft Internet Explorer Guides”).
If Internet Explorer is set as the default browser, it will open in the new immersive browser, and the tile will have a larger “e” and the words “Internet Explorer” will be under it. To set Internet Explorer as the default browser: 1. From the Start screen, type Default Programs, and select the Apps filter.
1 5. 2  IE immersive browser • The new Internet Explorer UI mode is being referred to as Immersive.. 3  It will be compatible with Windows 8 and above • The Immersive UI will be like Internet Explorer, which takes on a look that's much like the IE Mobile browser in Windows Phone.