intangible asset. An asset such as a patent, goodwill, or a mining claim that has no physical properties. Since intangible assets are often difficult to value accurately, such assets when included on a corporate balance sheet may have a true value significantly different from the dollar amounts indicated there.
A company's nonphysical assets, such as intellectual property (items such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, and business methodologies), goodwill, and brand recognition; an intangible asset can be classified as either indefinite or definite. An asset such as a patent, goodwill, or a mining claim that has no physical properties. Since intangible assets are often difficult to value accurately, such assets when included on a corporate balance sheet may have a true value significantly different from the dollar amounts indicated there.
Intangible assets have either an identifiable or indefinite useful life. Intangible assets with identifiable useful lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their economic or legal life, whichever is shorter. Examples of intangible assets with identifiable useful lives include copyrights and patents. An intangible asset is an asset that lacks physical substance and usually is very hard to evaluate. It includes patents, copyrights, franchises, goodwill, trademarks, trade name
Some intangible assets have indefinite or unlimited useful life, such as goodwill. Such assets are not amortized. Others have a definite useful life and are amortized over their useful life. Most of intangible assets are amortized using straight line method. Useful life is the shorter of legal life and economic life. 
An asset that is not physical in nature. Corporate intellectual property (items such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, business methodologies), goodwill and brand recognition are all common intangible assets in today's marketplace. Should computer software be classified as an intangible asset or part of property, ... In accounting terms, an intangible asset is something of value that is not of physical nature. On the other hand,
Key definitions. Intangible asset: an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance. An asset is a resource that is controlled by the entity as a result of past events (for example, purchase or self-creation) and from which future economic benefits (inflows of cash or other assets) are expected. 
Overview of Intangible Assets. An intangible asset is a non-physical asset that has a useful life of greater than one year. Examples of intangible assets are trademarks, customer lists, motion pictures, franchise agreements, and computer software. More extensive examples of intangible assets are: 1  Artistic assets. 
Intangible Asset. Definition: An intangible asset is a non-physical asset having a useful life greater than one year. If an intangible asset is determined to have a useful life, then its book value is amortized over that useful life. 
An intangible asset is an idea, concept or legal right that has some monetary value, but is not physical in nature. In essence, an intangible asset is a piece of valuable property that you cannot touch, see, hear, smell or taste. It has real value and existence, but it has no physical embodiment. Intangible assets include intellectual property, licenses and approvals, and business good will.