Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An example of a pioneer species is a lichen. It is able to live in very hostile environment with exteremly minimal amounts of water. It is the first coloniser in a primary succession. No soil is required for it to grow. Source(s): Here's a picture of a lichen http://www.ubcbotanicalgarden.org/potd/x..
Definition of a Pioneer Community. A pioneer community is a group of organisms that invade a new area in the process of biological succession (the progression of an ecosystem over time). These organisms are typically plants, animals and fungi. They are the first to move into a new habitat and often make the habitat more hospitable for future inhabitants. 
What is pioneer species? A pioneer species is a species that is first to establish itself in an area where nothing is growing-or in an area that has been devastated by fire,flood, plowing etc. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Rona rkpj. Confidence votes 176. A pioneer species is a species that is first to establish itself in an area where nothing is growing-or in an area that has been devastated by fire,flood, plowing etc. These species are usually annuals, disappearing after the second year when perennials take over
Because pioneer species are the first to return after a disturbance, they are the first stage of succession and their presence increases the diversity in a region. They are usually a hardy plant, algae or moss that can withstand a hostile environment. She has a Bachelor of Science in Biology and a Master of Education. Pioneer species get their name because they are the pioneers of the forest. This lesson will define pioneer species and will explain their importance to the ecosystem.
More specifically, fireweed is a pioneer species, or the first species that grows in an area after a disturbance. Anything that disturbs the landscape is a disturbance. Some examples can include forest fires, floods, woodcutting, or bulldozing. She has a Bachelor of Science in Biology and a Master of Education. Pioneer species get their name because they are the pioneers of the forest. This lesson will define pioneer species and will explain their importance to the ecosystem.
Centaurea maculosa, an example of pioneer species. Pioneer species are hardy species which are the first to colonize previously disrupted or damaged ecosystems, beginning a chain of ecological succession that ultimately leads to a more biodiverse steady-state ecosystem. Pioneering fauna will colonize an area only after flora and fungi have inhabited the area. Soil fauna, ranging from microscopic protists to larger invertebrates, have a role in soil formation and nutrient cycling.
Pioneer species can also be found in secondary succession, such as an established ecosystem being reduced by an event such as: a forest fire, deforestation, or clearing; quickly colonizing open spaces which previously supported vegetation. Common examples of the plants in such areas include: Pioneering fauna will colonize an area only after flora and fungi have inhabited the area. Soil fauna, ranging from microscopic protists to larger invertebrates, have a role in soil formation and nutrient cycling.
Pioneer species are the first species to enter an area after a disturbance. They are the colonizers. The pioneer species are the first stages of ecological succession, which is a series of changes over time in the types of organisms in an ecosystem. Common pioneer species include bacteria, fungi and lichens. Pioneer species usually have the ability to live in harsh environments where other species cannot surviv