Disease. Definition. noun, plural: diseases. An abnormal condition of an organism which interrupts the normal bodily functions that often leads to feeling of pain and weakness, and usually associated with symptoms and signs. 
Chronic disease: A disease that persists for a long time. A chronic disease is one lasting 3 months or more, by the definition of the U.S. National Center for Health Statistics. Chronic diseases generally cannot be prevented by vaccines or cured by medication, nor do they just disappear.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a disease is an illness or sickness with specific, well-defined symptoms that affects a person, plant or animal. An example of a disease is cancer. disease. 1  any departure from health; illness in general. 2  a particular destructive process in an organ or organism, with a specific cause and characteristic symptoms; specif., an illness; ailment. 3  any harmful or destructive condition, as of society.
Medical Definition of INFECTIOUS DISEASE. : a disease caused by the entrance into the body of organisms (as bacteria, protozoans, fungi, or viruses) which grow and multiply there—see communicable disease, contagious disease. 
disease. noun dis·ease \di-ˈzēz\. Tweet. : an illness that affects a person, animal, or plant: a condition that prevents the body or mind from working normally. : a problem that a person, group, organization, or society has and cannot stop. Definition of DISEASE for Kids. : a change in a living body (as of a person or plant) that prevents it from functioning normally: sickness.
A disease is a particular abnormal condition, a disorder of a structure or function, that affects part or all of an organism. The causal study of disease is called pathology. Disease is often construed as a medical condition associated with specific symptoms and signs. It may be caused by factors originally from an external source, such as infectious disease, or it may be caused by internal dysfunctions, such as autoimmune diseases.
Definition of Alzheimer's. 1  Alzheimer's disease is a progressive, degenerative disorder that attacks the brain's nerve cells, or neurons, resulting in loss of memory, thinking and language skills, and behavioral changes. 1
disease. noun. 1  An abnormal condition of a part, organ, or system of an organism resulting from various causes, such as infection, inflammation, environmental factors, or genetic defect, and characterized by an identifiable group of signs, symptoms, or both. disease. 1  any departure from health; illness in general. 2  a particular destructive process in an organ or organism, with a specific cause and characteristic symptoms; specif., an illness; ailment. 3  any harmful or destructive condition, as of society.
The definition of a disease is an illness or sickness with specific, well-defined symptoms that affects a person, plant or animal. disease. 1  any departure from health; illness in general. 2  a particular destructive process in an organ or organism, with a specific cause and characteristic symptoms; specif., an illness; ailment. 3  any harmful or destructive condition, as of society.