Qantas will upgrade its entire 30-strong fleet of Airbus A330s with a new lie-flat business class seat from the end of 2014, as the airline steps up its game in the battle for domestic and international business class.
1 Malaysian Airline newest A330s are most operating from Australia to Kuala Lumpur, it's a 2 two-class in a 2-2-2 configuration with Business Class at the front of the plane and Economy to the rear, the business class cabin has brand new lie-flat angled sleeper seats.
First Class on the Qantas Airbus A380 offers 14 individual suites, which are some of the best 'convential' First class seats on any aircraft. The Qantas First Class seats have a 84 inch seat pitch (extending to a 2.12meter fully flat bed) and a width of 29inches.
The alternative to the fully-flat business class bed is the lie-flat or angled-flat bed. The angle is irritating if you're trying to get some sleep, particularly if you're wearing suit trousers, a skirt or any sort of smooth fabric.
While the Qantas business suite is already flying domestically, having made its debut on New Year’s Eve when an A330-200 VH-EBV flew from Sydney to Perth, the international and domestic versions have some slight variations. First, the international seats are in cloth, while the domestic versions have a leather finish.
To confuse matters, some airlines have different seats on the same route. Fly from Sydney to Hong Kong on a Qantas Airbus A380 and you'll find the 180-degree fully flat beds, but a Qantas Boeing 747 on the same route has angled lie-flat beds. To make things worse, both Qantas products are called Skybeds –- but only the A380's second-generation Skybed is a fully-flat seat.
Picture: Qantas Source: Supplied. The business class suite will be rolled out on the airline's A330 planes. Picture: Qantas Source: Supplied. QANTAS has unveiled the new lie flat seats that will be rolled out across its Airbus A330 business class sections from next year. The airline, which today announced a $5 million profit, said the new Marc Newson-designed business suites will be available on both its international and domestic fleet of A330s.