Best Answer: I have heard that it is not the nicotine that is bad for you, just the tar and hundreds of other things they put in cigs. I am a smoker and I have just stumbled upon the electronic cigarette. For those of you that do not know what that is allow me to explain. They are cigarettes that have a battery and no tobacco. You switch out the filter part and put new flavors in that are also mixed with nicotine. You are losing the carcinogens...
The confusion about nicotine comes from anti-smoking activists talking about nicotine and smoking as if they were the same. While it is true that people smoke mostly because of nicotine; nicotine users die mostly because of the smoke. It seems that some people get substantial benefits that keep them using nicotine, while others do not. Some advocates seem to think that addiction is a terrible disease in itself (despite them not even having a good definition for it).
In this case, it’s not the smoking that causes the changes to your blood sugar and blood pressure, it’s the nicotine itself. If you were to switch to using a nicotine patch or smokeless tobacco (also called chew or dip) instead, for example, you would still have the same harmful effects from the nicotine. Paranoia sells and it gets lots of readers. So you may have rightly started to distrust news stories that talk about the latest dangers to your health. After all, everything from air to gluten has been linked to serious health risks. You may now be wondering just how bad nicotine really is for
Studying nicotine is a bit harder, because most nicotine users smoke, and the smoking is quite bad for you. But there is some good evidence: If nicotine were very bad for you then smokeless tobacco, which provides nicotine, would be very bad for you. As we've shown elsewhere, that is not the case. It seems that some people get substantial benefits that keep them using nicotine, while others do not. Some advocates seem to think that addiction is a terrible disease in itself (despite them not even having a good definition for it).
Even so, the possibility that people can be addicted to nicotine, but not die from it, is at the heart of a growing debate in the scientific community. Scientists don't doubt nicotine is addictive, but some wonder if a daily dose could be as benign as the caffeine many of us get from a morning coffee. Also, tobacco companies used various chemicals to make the nicotine in cigarettes even more potent. Pure nicotine can be lethal in sufficient quantities. There is some evidence it may lead to changes in adolescent brain development, especially to the part responsible for intelligence, language and memory.
Nicotine has bad effects on the health of your lungs, too, although most of this risk comes from the act of smoking rather than from nicotine itself. Smoking is one of the worst things you can do for your lungs, especially if you have health conditions like asthma or allergies that already compromise your lung health. Paranoia sells and it gets lots of readers. So you may have rightly started to distrust news stories that talk about the latest dangers to your health. After all, everything from air to gluten has been linked to serious health risks. You may now be wondering just how bad nicotine really is for
Nicotine is a very strong poison that can kill a human in less than an hour if even a small amount is injected into the blood-stream. Tobacco smoke contains very tiny amounts of nicotine that aren't deadly, but are still very bad for our health. Tobacco smoke also contains many other chemicals. In fact, it contains over 4,000 chemicals, many of which are very harmful to our bodies. In fact, it's just the opposite: smoking is the only legal consumer product that kills you when you use it exactly how it's meant to be used! That's pretty scary, isn't it? Cigarettes are made from tobacco. The tobacco plant is the only plant ever discovered to contain the drug called nicotine.
The effects of nicotine itself are similar to that other popular drug, caffeine. See our (nicotine reading list.) There is no evidence that nicotine causes any substantial risk for cancer, and the research shows that the risk for cardiovascular disease is minimal. It seems that some people get substantial benefits that keep them using nicotine, while others do not. Some advocates seem to think that addiction is a terrible disease in itself (despite them not even having a good definition for it).
Tar sticks to the insides of your lungs and can cause cancer. Nicotine (a drug in tobacco) makes your blood vessels smaller. That means your heart has to work harder to pump the blood. A very dangerous gas called carbon monoxide is in cigarette smoke. In fact, it's just the opposite: smoking is the only legal consumer product that kills you when you use it exactly how it's meant to be used! That's pretty scary, isn't it? Cigarettes are made from tobacco. The tobacco plant is the only plant ever discovered to contain the drug called nicotine.
Well, here are 10 reasons smoking can not only cause a host of ailments but can also kill you. Reason #1: Is known to cause cancer. We all have heard about the fact that cigarette smoking causes cancer. But if you thought that cigarette smoking only led to lung cancer you are quite mistaken. Smoking leads to cancer of the nose, mouth, larynx (voice box), trachea, esophagus, stomach, pancreas, kidneys, bladder, cervix, bone marrow and blood. Wondering how it happens?