Neptune has the wildest and strangest weather in the entire Solar System. It has huge storms with extremely high winds. Its atmosphere has dark spots which come and go, and bright cirrus-like clouds which change rapidly. Neptune has an average temperature of -353 Fahrenheit (-214 Celsius). 
A Look at Neptune's Clouds. The atmosphere of Neptune is mostly made of a complex molecule called methane. Hazes of smog on Neptune, made of methane and other, even more complex molecules, are to be found very high up, above the clouds of Neptune. A Look at the History of Neptune's Atmosphere. Like Jupiter and all the giant planets, Neptune's appearance shows a striped pattern of clouds. Other cloud shapes seen over time include a small dark spot, the scooter and the Great Dark Spot.
In contrast to the hazy, relatively featureless atmosphere of Uranus, Neptune's atmosphere has active and visible weather patterns. For example, at the time of the 1989 Voyager 2 flyby, the planet's southern hemisphere had a Great Dark Spot comparable to the Great Red Spot on Jupiter. Neptune is the eighth and farthest planet from the Sun in the Solar System. It is the fourth-largest planet by diameter and the third-largest by mass. Among the giant planets in the Solar System, Neptune is the most dense.
Because of its great distance from the Sun, Neptune's outer atmosphere is one of the coldest places in the Solar System, with temperatures at its cloud tops approaching 55 K (−218 °C). Temperatures at the planet's centre are approximately 5,400 K (5,100 °C). Neptune is the eighth and farthest planet from the Sun in the Solar System. It is the fourth-largest planet by diameter and the third-largest by mass. Among the giant planets in the Solar System, Neptune is the most dense.
Motions in Neptune's Interior, part 2. Neptune's atmosphere shows a striped pattern of clouds. This cloud pattern is very similar to that of Jupiter and Saturn. Neptune even has a Great Dark Spot similar to Jupiter's Great Red Spot. The history ...more. A Look at the History of Neptune's Atmosphere. Like Jupiter and all the giant planets, Neptune's appearance shows a striped pattern of clouds. Other cloud shapes seen over time include a small dark spot, the scooter and the Great Dark Spot.
The atmosphere of Neptune is similar to all the large planets in the Solar System; it mostly consists of hydrogen and helium, with trace amounts of methane, water, ammonia and other ices. But unlike the other gas planets in the Solar System, Neptune’s atmosphere has a larger proportion of the ices. It’s the methane in the planet’s upper atmosphere that give it its bright blue color. Neptune, captured by Voyager.
Neptune is a gas giant, which means it is composed almost entirely of gasses. Neptune is composed of a helium, hydrogen and methane atmosphere. It has an exposed core of m … olten rock and molten ammonia. Neptune is also very windy, with storm winds reaching up to around 2,000mph. 
High-altitude clouds on Neptune have been observed casting shadows on the opaque cloud deck below. There are also high-altitude cloud bands that wrap around the planet at constant latitude. These circumferential bands have widths of 50–150 km and lie about 50–110 km above the cloud deck. Neptune is the eighth and farthest planet from the Sun in the Solar System. It is the fourth-largest planet by diameter and the third-largest by mass. Among the giant planets in the Solar System, Neptune is the most dense.
Atmospheric composition. Neptune's atmosphere is made up predominately of hydrogen and helium, with some methane. The methane is part of what gives Neptune its brilliant blue tint, as it absorbs red light and reflects bluer colors. Uranus also has methane in its atmosphere, but has a duller shading. Something else must be contributing to Neptune's hue, but scientists aren't certain what. The planet has ten to a hundred times more methane, ethane, and ethyne at its equator than it does at its poles. The clouds of Neptune vary with the altitude. Cold temperatures allow methane clouds to condense in the highest layers of the atmosphere. Scientists think that clouds made up of ammonia and hydrogen sulfide exist at higher pressures.