Chances are that you'll rent rather than buy a space for your business. Most small start-ups don't have the funds to purchase real estate, and it's usually not a good idea to saddle your business with high interest payments in any case. One obvious and important concern when looking for commercial space to lease is finding a place that you can afford. Zoning Rules. Finally, the location that you choose needs to be legally acceptable for whatever you plan to do there. A certain spot may be good for business, but if it's not zoned for what you plan to do, you're asking for trouble.
If you're looking to get started with some basic geographic visuals, Google's or Microsoft's tools can provide a comparatively easy way to get your feet wet. Experiment with the free maps and examples of other interactive maps to explore the best strategy for your projects. MapWindow offers flexible support for a number of data formats — you can either use the map data, imagery, and geographic data files provided within the system, or you can import your own from a variety of different GIS and GPS data.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Constantinople is located where the Bosphorus Strait meets the Mediterranean Sea. The Bosphorus connects the Black Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, and separates southeastern Europe from southwestern Asia. Constantinople was founded on a peninsula on the west bank of the Bosphorus' southern end. The cheapest way to move cargo is often by sea, particularly if the sea is relatively calm during the summer as is the Mediterranean. Constantinople lied (as still does, but now it is called Istanbul) on a promontory of the Marmara Sea in Turkey, by the straight which separates Europe and Asia and by an inle … t. Therefore it was/is surrounded by water on three sides. It has seven hills which made the development of good fortifications easier
The terms location and place in geography are used to identify a point or an area on the Earth 's surface or elsewhere. The term location generally implies a higher degree of certainty than place, which often indicates an entity with an ambiguous boundary, relying more on human/social attributes of place identity and sense of place than on geometry.
For example, if you determined that location is very important to your business, make sure your budget will allow you to rent good space given the average cost of space in your area. If not, you may have to rework your business plan. Zoning Rules. Finally, the location that you choose needs to be legally acceptable for whatever you plan to do there. A certain spot may be good for business, but if it's not zoned for what you plan to do, you're asking for trouble.
This setting is only for geographic data. If you're targeting users in different locations—for example, if you have a site in French that you want users in France, Canada, and Mali to read—don't use this tool to set France as a geographic target. A good example of where it would be useful is for a restaurant website: if the restaurant is in Canada, it's probably not of interest to folks in France. But if your content is in French and is of interest to people in multiple countries/regions, it's probably better not to restrict it.
An absolute location is designated using a specific pairing of latitude and longitude in a Cartesian coordinate grid — for example, a Spherical coordinate system or an ellipsoid-based system such as the World Geodetic System — or similar methods. The term location generally implies a higher degree of certainty than place, which often indicates an entity with an ambiguous boundary, relying more on human/social attributes of place identity and sense of place than on geometry.
If your site has a country-coded top-level domain (such as .ie or .fr) it is already associated with a geographic region (in this example, Ireland or France). If you use a country-coded domain, you won't be able to specify a geographic location. You can specify a target country in the International Targeting report. A good example of where it would be useful is for a restaurant website: if the restaurant is in Canada, it's probably not of interest to folks in France. But if your content is in French and is of interest to people in multiple countries/regions, it's probably better not to restrict it.
Ironically, while place is often the most permanent of the four P's, it's also often the most overlooked. Location is about more than just choosing a building. Perhaps for you, opening your business in your own town, or even your part of town, is a given. But consider the big picture: 1  State-Income taxes and sales taxes vary greatly from state to state, as do regulatory requirements.