From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Insertion sort is a simple sorting algorithm that builds the final sorted array (or list) one item at a time. It is much less efficient on large lists than more advanced algorithms such as quicksort, heapsort, or merge sort. 
sorting-the basic cognitive process of arranging into classes or categories. categorisation, categorization, classification. coordination-being of coordinate importance, rank, or degree. basic cognitive process-cognitive processes involved in obtaining and storing knowledge. Another fellow and myself did all the work from sorting and washing to ironing the white shirts, collars and cuffs, and the fancy starch of the wives of the professors. John Barleycorn by London, Jack View in context. and to escape from these dreadful thoughts she went to Sonya and began sorting patterns with her.
sort. n. 1. A group of persons or things of the same general character; a kind. See Usage Note at kind 2. 2. Character or nature: books of a subversive sort. 3. One that exemplifies the characteristics of or serves a similar function to another: A large dinner-party ... Sort is used as a noun to talk about a class of people or things. Sort is a countable noun. After words like all and several, you use sorts. There are all sorts of reasons why this is true.
something of sorts. an inferior example of a kind of something. Well, it's a solution of sorts, I suppose. It was a novel of sorts, but not what I'd ever have chosen. 
She's not the sort to complain. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 3. [count] technical: the act of separating things and putting them in a particular order: the act of sorting things. The program did a numeric sort of the data. 
2 [mass noun] Computing The arrangement of data in a prescribed sequence. Example sentences. 1  Both cache size and sort size affect memory usage, so you cannot maximize one without affecting the other. 2  Another beneficial practice is to perform an exploratory card sort once the content for the website is determined. 
Definition of Selection Sort. Known for its simplicity, the selection sort algorithm starts by finding the minimum value in the array and moving it to the first position. 
to some degree kind of It seemed to be sort of a cross between an oyster and a mushroom. Usage notes: sometimes used to show that you are not certain about something: I'm sort of at an age where I just want things to be a little more orderly. of a sort. having some but not all of the characteristics of something Officials portrayed the meetings as progress of a sort, although the bargaining has not yet begun.
Excel Sort Order. Definition: Sorting is the process of arranging objects in a certain sequence or sort order according to specific rules. In spreadsheet programs such as Excel and Google Spreadsheets, there are a number of different sort orders available depending on the type of data being sorted. For text or numeric values, the two sort order options are ascending and descending. Depending upon the type of data in the selected range, these sort orders will sort data the following ways: For ascending sorts: 1  Sort A to Z-for text data.
sort, v to arrange units of information according to rules dependent on a key or field contained in or with the information. sort generator program, n a generalized program that can produce many different sorting programs in accordance with control information specified by the user. 