Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Considering the nature of COD and that it's not an acronym it's probably an abbreviation for objective, as in defend the obj or 360 dropshot quickscoping all the n00bs is my obj!.
Stands for outstanding blow job. Given to a man because it was well deserved. Usually because he has done something spectacular. Also given until the recipient has achieved an orgasm. If bj's are given as part of foreplay, they usually aren't completed. 
The OBJ file format is a simple data-format that represents 3D geometry alone — namely, the position of each vertex, the UV position of each texture coordinate vertex, vertex normals, and the faces that make each polygon defined as a list of vertices, and texture vertices. MTL files are commonly accompanied by and referenced from OBJ files that define geometry upon which the materials of the MTL file are mapped. The MTL format, although still widely used, is outdated and does not fully support later technologies such as specular maps and parallax maps.
My friends have a clan on COD and they won't tell me what obj means.. They say it isn't an acronym. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. Rating Newest Oldest. Considering the nature of COD and that it's not an acronym it's probably an abbreviation for objective, as in defend the obj or 360 dropshot quickscoping all the n00bs is my obj!.
has the following definition + add your definition. object. object is used in Slang. The word obj is used in Slang meaning object. 
OBJ (or .OBJ) is a geometry definition file format first developed by Wavefront Technologies for its Advanced Visualizer animation package. The file format is open and has been adopted by other 3D graphics application vendors. For the most part it is a universally accepted format. MTL files are commonly accompanied by and referenced from OBJ files that define geometry upon which the materials of the MTL file are mapped. The MTL format, although still widely used, is outdated and does not fully support later technologies such as specular maps and parallax maps.
Want or you can just put your phone on vibrate..... 3. 1. Go to settings then sounds then text tone to change it to what you want or you can just put your phone on vibrate. They are picture texts or texts that contain pictures or contact infomation.... 2. 1. They are picture texts or texts that contain pictures or contact infomation, your default text might be multimedia if so go to settings, texts and change to default sms texts hoped this helped.
What does obj mean in text? my boyfriend was texting me and wanted to hang and i said i couldnt his reply was Obj..... see u monday then :\ what does it mean and please dont say objective or something. Add your answer.
OBJ is a programming language family introduced by Joseph Goguen in 1976. A family of declarative ultra high-level languages. Abstract types, generic modules, subsorts, pattern-matching modulo equations, E-strategies, module expressions, theories and views. For the massively parallel RRM. 