Each such cell contains a bundle of myofibrils, linear organelles that are themselves composed of chains of sarcomeres (picture). In the diagram, the A band is the region where thick filaments are present. The I bands are the two regions where thin filaments exclusively are present. During muscle contraction the thick filaments quickly slide along the thin filaments to shorten the myofibrils. The myofilaments themselves, however, do not contract. This is the action that give muscles their physical force.
H zone The H zone is the region in the middle of the sarcomere where the thin myofilaments fail to overlap the thick myofilaments. M line The M line in the center of the sarcomere and A band is where proteins hold the thick myofilaments in position. The skeletal muscle fibers contract when the sarcomere in the myofibrils contract. The contraction of the sarcomeres is explained by the sliding filament theory. (The word theory is used here in its scientific sense as meaning generally accepted laws and principles, as in the theory of evolution.).
Muscle fibers are composed of tubular myofibrils. Myofibrils are composed of repeating sections of sarcomeres, which appear under the microscope as dark and light bands. Sarcomeres are composed of long, fibrous proteins as filaments that slide past each other when a muscle contracts or relaxes. The myosin head also binds to ATP, which is the source of energy for muscle movement. Myosin can only bind to actin when the binding sites on actin are exposed by calcium ions. Actin molecules are bound to the Z line, which forms the borders of the sarcomere. Other bands appear when the sarcomere is relaxed. A muscle fiber from a biceps muscle may contain 100,000 sarcomer
Sarcomeres are highly stereotyped and are repeated throughout muscle cells, and the proteins within them can change in length, which causes the overall length of a muscle to change. An individual sarcomere contains many parallel actin (thin) and myosin (thick) filaments. When muscle cells are viewed under the microscope, one can see that they contain a striped pattern (striations). This pattern is formed by a series of basic units called sarcomeres that are arranged in a stacked pattern throughout muscle tissue (Figure 1).
Myofibrils are composed of long proteins including actin, myosin, and titin, and other proteins that hold them together. These proteins are organized into thick and thin filaments called myofilaments, which repeat along the length of the myofibril in sections called sarcomeres. When a muscle contracts, the actin is pulled along myosin toward the center of the sarcomere until the actin and myosin filaments are completely overlapped. The H zone becomes smaller and smaller due to the increasing overlap of actin and myosin filaments, and the muscle shortens.
Myofibrils are constructed and lined up in a chain-like formation to create what are called sarcomeres. Sarcomeres contain several regions. One region is called the A-bands and only consist of myosin filaments. The counterpart of A-bands is the I-bands that only contain actin filaments. The ends of each sarcomere are called Z discs. A middle region of each sarcomere called the H-zone only contains myosin. According to the sliding filament theory by Andrew Huxley and Ralph Niedergerke, muscles contract when Z-discs come closer together thus shortening the sarcomeres. As this overlap occurs, myosin filaments are binding to the actin filaments, allowing myosin to function as the driving motor of filament sliding. This relative movement between myosin and actin is what results in muscle contraction.
Contracting a Muscle. During contraction, the thin filaments slide past the thick filaments, shortening the sarcomere. The thick and thin filaments do the actual work of a muscle, and the way they do this is pretty cool. Thick filaments are made of a protein called myosin. At the molecular level, a thick filament is a shaft of myosin molecules arranged in a cylinder. Thin filaments are made of another protein called actin
middle area in the sarcomere where thick and thin filaments are found. A band I band Z disc H zone M line sarcomere neuromuscular junction myoglobin satellite cells transverse tubules sarcoplasmic reticulum sarcolemma sarcoplasm. 
The relationship between the proteins and the regions of the sarcomere are as follows: 1  Actin filaments, the thin filaments, are the major component of the I-band and extend into the A-band. 2  Myosin filaments, the thick filaments, are bipolar and extend throughout the A-band. The myosin head also binds to ATP, which is the source of energy for muscle movement. Myosin can only bind to actin when the binding sites on actin are exposed by calcium ions. Actin molecules are bound to the Z line, which forms the borders of the sarcomere. Other bands appear when the sarcomere is relaxed. A muscle fiber from a biceps muscle may contain 100,000 sarcomeres