The word delicious is an adjective, a word used to describe a noun; for example: a delicious meala delicious daya delicious treat The word delicious is also a noun as a type … of apple, a red delicious or a yellow delicious. 2 people found this useful. Jam 499. A verb is a word for an action or a state of  being. Examples:    We ride our bikes everywhere.  We are bicyclists.  We like bicycle riding.   A noun is a word for … a person, a place, or a  thing.
User: What kind of complement is the underlined word? The sausages smelled delicious after Mom added seasoning to them. A. indirect object B. predicate nominative C. direct object D. predicate adjective. 
Delicious (formerly del.icio.us) is a social bookmarking web service for storing, sharing, and discovering web bookmarks. The site was founded by Joshua Schachter in 2003 and acquired by Yahoo in 2005. By the end of 2008, the service claimed more than 5.3 million users and 180 million unique bookmarked URLs. A combined view of everyone's bookmarks with a given tag is available; for instance, the URL http://delicious.com/tag/wiki displays all of the most recent links tagged  wiki . Its collective nature makes it possible to view bookmarks added by other users.
268,216 Contributions. The word delicious is an adjective, a word used to describe a noun; for example: a delicious meala delicious daya delicious treat The word delicious is also a noun as a type … of apple, a red delicious or a yellow delicious. The opposite would be to taste terrible or taste awful (there is no specific word that means tastes really bad). Some other possibilities are unpalatable, unsavory, or unapp … etizing. The absence of taste could be another alternative: bland, tasteless, or flavorless.
What type of complement is the underlined word in this sentence? Dr. Randall is the new orthodontist at the dental clinic. A. direct object B. indirect object C. predicate nominative (Underlined: orthodontist) ---------------------------- What type of complement is the underlined word in this sentence? The pizza Marcus made me is delicious. My brother gave my sister his old tennis racket last month. A. indirect object B. predicate nominative C. direct object (Underlined: sister) -------------------- What type of complement is the underlined word in this sentence? Before the parade you should wash the car.
Tastes is a linking verb in that sentence, so the correct choice is the adjective delicious. A linking verb connects the subject to a subject complement and is not an actio … n verb. It acts as an equal sign (=). The soup = delicious. The opposite would be to taste terrible or taste awful (there is no specific word that means tastes really bad). Some other possibilities are unpalatable, unsavory, or unapp … etizing. The absence of taste could be another alternative: bland, tasteless, or flavorless.
She is a dancer in the performance. A. direct object B. predicate nominative C. indirect object (Underlined: dancer) ---------------------- What type of complement is the underlined word in this sentence? My brother gave my sister his old tennis racket last month. A. indirect object B. predicate nominative C. direct object (Underlined: sister) -------------------- What type of complement is the underlined word in this sentence? Before the parade you should wash the car.
I give medals!!!!!!!!!!!!! What kind of complement is the underlined word? Sunday is the last day of the festival A. predicate adjective B. predicate nominative C. direct object D. indirect object 2. 
Delicious is one of the most popular social bookmarking services. Many features have contributed to this, including the website's simple interface, human-readable URL scheme, a novel domain name, a simple REST-like API, and RSS feeds for web syndication. Use of Delicious is free. The source code of the site is not available, but a user can download his or her own data through the site's API in an XML or JSON format, or export it to a standard Netscape bookmarks format. A combined view of everyone's bookmarks with a given tag is available; for instance, the URL http://delicious.com/tag/wiki displays all of the most recent links tagged  wiki . Its collective nature makes it possible to view bookmarks added by other users.