Habitat. Mountain gorillas live in Rwanda, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, on green, volcanic mountains. Lowland gorillas live in the forests of central and western Africa in Equatorial Guinea, Angola, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Congo, Gabon and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Gorillas are generally herbivores. They usually eat vegetation such as wild celery, shoots, roots, fruit, tree bark and tree pulp, but they have been known to eat small animals and insects. A male can eat up to 40 lbs. (18 kg) of vegetation each day. Gorillas' exact diet depends on where they live. According to Sea World, about 67 percent of a lowland gorilla's diet is fruit; 17 percent comes from leaves, seeds and stems; and 3 percent comes from termites and caterpillars
Gorillas, the largest living primates, make their homes in central and east Africa. They function in a well-developed social structure and often exhibit behavior and emotions similar to the human experience, including laughter and sadness. 
There are four subspecies of gorillas: the eastern lowland or Grauer’s gorilla (Gorilla beringei graueri); the mountain gorilla (Gorilla beringei beringei); the western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla); and the Cross River gorilla (Gorilla gorilla diehl). 
Mountain gorillas are found in 3 countries in Africa: Rwanda, Uganda, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo(DR Congo). The gorillas live in a tiny area where these countries' borders meet, which is on the western edge of the East African Rift Valley. Their habitat is only about 780 sq km. This is an area smaller than some individual cities like London, New York City, and Los Angeles!
Gorillas live in a range of habitats from swamps to forests. There are lowland gorillas which live in bamboo forests, swamps and lowland forests. There are also mountain gorillas which live in forests in the mountains. 
Gorillas live in dense warm places where they can breed. Their habitat are often cloudy, misty and cold. There are gorillas that live in the rain forests of Africa while other lowland gorillas live in the forests of western Africa. There are two populations.
Montane bamboo forests are the most common habitats of eastern gorillas with the range measuring at 600–3308 m (1969-10,853 ft). Western gorillas also live in the submontane forests, lowland forests, and swamps with the range measuring 150–1600 m (492–5249 ft). Most gorillas exist in humid equatorial rainforest, but few of them reside in primary forests. Some of the most common plants that gorillas are very fond of are woody and herbaceous that grows in a place where the sunlight reaches ground. These wild animals are also the inhabitants of logged and cleared forests. Gorillas are not apt to share their food; however, they are proficient enough to eat palatable parts including leaves, roots, fruits, shoots and grubs. These species spend almost 30% of their daytime on feeding; 40% on relaxing; and 30% traveling. They usually build nests on ground or on trees.
The silverback protects what matters most. Mountain gorillas live in groups of two to 40 led by the silverback, a dominant male that is the chief leader and protector. 