Pink eye (conjunctivitis) generally remains contagious as long as your child is experiencing tearing and matted eyes. Signs and symptoms of pink eye usually improve within three to seven days. When tearing and matted eyes are no longer present, it's appropriate for a child to return to school or child care. 
Viral Conjunctivitis. Most cases of viral conjunctivitis are mild. The infection will usually clear up in 7–14 days without treatment and without any long-term consequences. In some cases, viral conjunctivitis can take 2-3 weeks or more to clear up, especially if complications arise. Artificial tears and cold packs may be used to relieve the dryness and inflammation (swelling) caused by conjunctivitis. The treatment for conjunctivitis depends on the cause. It is not always necessary to see a healthcare provider for conjunctivitis. But, as noted below, there are times when it is important to seek medical care.
Conjunctivitis: Bacterial conjunctivitis usually takes 24 to 48 hours to clear but the antibiotic has to be used for 5 to 7 days. Viral conjunctivitis takes longer - 1-2 weeks or longer. Allergic conjunctivitis lasts as long as the allergens are present. ...Read more. Bacterial conjunctivitis due to an organism susceptible to vigamox should clear up in a few days. However, viral conjuctivitis, often confused with bacterial conjunctivitis, can take as long as 2 weeks.
Pink eye also can be caused by bacterial conjunctivitis, which  even with treatment such as prescription antibiotic eye drops  can last up to a month or longer. However, with this type of pink eye, people should no longer be contagious 24 hours after antibiotic treatment begins. Common pink eye symptoms can last anywhere from a few days to a few weeks. Many types of pink eye are contagious, but only after the symptoms emerge.
Usually 1 - 3 days. 1  If conjunctivitis is due to a bacterial infection, it is contagious until the eyes are no longer red and there is no discharge (this may be after several days without treatment, or about 24 hours after starting effective treatment.). 1
Treating conjunctivitis. Conjunctivitis often doesn't require treatment as the symptoms usually clear up within a couple of weeks. If treatment is necessary, the type of treatment will depend on the cause. In severe cases, antibiotic eye drops can be used to clear the infection. 
How long pink eye lasts depends on what caused it. Common pink eye symptoms can last anywhere from a few days to a few weeks. Many types of pink eye are contagious, but only after the symptoms emerge. It appears people are not contagious during the incubation period of pink eye  the time of up to a few days between when they are exposed and when the symptoms begin. If your pink eye is caused by a common viral infection and no other complications occur, then your eyes should clear up within a few days to two weeks
Get help from a doctor now ›. Depends: It depends on the cause of the conjunctivitis. Bacterial conjunctivitis due to an organism susceptible to vigamox should clear up in a few days. However, viral conjuctivitis, often confused with bacterial conjunctivitis, can take as long as 2 weeks. ...Read more
Most cases of pinkeye clear up within one to two weeks. The duration of pinkeye may be extended if the infection spreads from one eye to the other. Use disposable tissues to remove any mucus from the eye and avoid touching the eye with your fingers to prevent spreading the infection. Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by a bacterial infection and requires treatment consisting of medicated eye drops to clear the infection. Viral conjunctivitis is caused by a virus. The symptoms will usually go away within 7-10 days, when the virus has run its course.