That is why there does notneed to be a decolorizer in this stain: it is based on the binding of the malachite greenand the permeability of the spore vs. cell wall. . The steaming helps the malachitegreen to permeate the low-permeability spore wall. 
The primary stain applied is malachite green, which stains both vegetative cells and endospores. Heat is applied to help the primary stain penetrate the endospore. The cells are then decolorized with water, which removes the malachite green from the vegetative cell but not the endospore. Purpose: The endospore stain is a differential stain which selectively stains bacterial endospores. How it works: Bacterial endospores are metabolically inactive, highly resistant structures produced by some bacteria as a defensive strategy against unfavorable environmental conditions.
Because of their tough protein coats made of keratin, spores are highly resistant to normal staining procedures. The primary stain in the endospore stain procedure, malachite green, is driven into the cells with heat. Spores are resistant to heat, dessication, chemicals, and radiation. Bacteria can form endospores in approximately 6 to 8 hours after being exposed to adverse conditions. The normally-growing cell that forms the endospore is called a vegetative cell. Spores are metabolically inactive and dehydrated.
, together causing a number of lethal diseases---botulism, gangrene, tetanus, and anthrax, to name a few. The. primary dye. malachite green is a relatively weakly binding dye to the cell wall and spore wall. In fact, if washed well with water, the dye comes right out of the cell wall, however not from the spore wall once the dye is locked in. That is why there is no need for a. decolorizer. in this stain: it is based on the binding of the malachite green and the permeability of the spore vs. cell wall. 
Spores are impermeable structures which makes them resistant to dying. Spore staining depends on increasing the permeability of the spore coat by heating to permit the dye in. … Upon cooling the dye is trapped inside the spore and not allowed out. The primary dye malachite green is a relatively weakly binding dye to the cell wall and spore wall. In fact, if washed well with water, the dye comes right out of the cell wall, however not from the spore wall once the dye is locked in. That is why there does not need to be a decolorizer in this stain.
The multiple thick coats of the spore made the endospore resistant to stain with most dyes. In Schaeffer-Fulton method, the primary stain, Malachite Green, is added over the heat fixed bacterial smear and heated over a steam bath for few minutes. 
The endospore stain is a differential stain used to visualize bacterial endospores. Endospores are formed by a few genera of bacteria, such as Bacillus. By forming spores, bacteria can survive in hostile conditions. Spores are resistant to heat, dessication, chemicals, and radiation. Bacteria can form endospores in approximately 6 to 8 hours after being exposed to adverse conditions. The normally-growing cell that forms the endospore is called a vegetative cell. Spores are metabolically inactive and dehydrated.
1 Apply stain while keeping the slide and perhaps some paper on top of the slide wet for 10 minutes (add more stain to keep it wet). 2  If using Steam: 3  Place the slide(s) on a slide holder over steaming water. 4  Optional, you may cover the slide with a piece of bibulous paper or other paper cut to fit the slide. Heat or steam is used to get Malachite Green into the endospores (and the vegetative cells as well. All but one species that produce endospores have vegetative bacilli.) The slide is them washed with water. As Malachite Green is a water soluble stain, it washes out of vegetative cells, but not out of the endospores.
1 Use Malachite Green and either steam or heat (ask your instructor for which) to stain for endospores. 2  Apply stain while keeping the slide and perhaps some paper wet for 10 minutes (add more stain to keep it wet). 3  If using Steam: 4  Place the slide(s) on a slide holder over steaming water. 1 First, make a bacterial smear or smears of your Unknown species, let it air dry (do something else while waiting). 2  It is probably a good idea to make two smears of differing amounts of bacteria. 3  Heat fix the slides. 4 
Spore staining depends on increasing the permeability of the spore coat by heating to permit the dye in. … Upon cooling the dye is trapped inside the spore and not allowed out. The primary dye malachite green is a relatively weakly binding dye to the cell wall and spore wall. In fact, if washed well with water, the dye comes right out of the cell wall, however not from the spore wall once the dye is locked in. That is why there does not need to be a decolorizer in this stain. Without heat fixing it when you stain the slide and then wash it off to see the results that bacteria sample will wash it off with it. Also the heat fixes the bacteria in plac … e. 4 people found this useful. Deb Answers.