Full Definition of MOOSE. 1. : a ruminant mammal (Alces alces) with humped shoulders, long legs, and broadly palmated antlers that is the largest existing member of the deer family and inhabits forested areas of Canada, the northern United States, Europe, and Asia. 2
Elk (spiritual animal symbol) – pride, power, majesty (spirit-animal.net). ***Moose, the largest member of the herbivorous Cervidae family, which includes deer and elk, are native to northern climates in North America, Europe, and Asia. Moose – pagan symbol of self-esteem and the magic of life and death, expresses joy of accomplishment. Moose (spiritual animal symbol) – unpredictability, spontaneity, confidence (spirit-animal.net). Calibou / reindeer (spiritual animal symbol) – travel, mobility (spirit-animal.net).
Moose. The moose or Eurasian elk is the largest extant species in the deer family. Moose are distinguished by the palmate antlers of the males; other members of the family have antlers with a dendritic configuration. Moose typically inhabit boreal and mixed deciduous forests of the Northern Hemisphere in temperate to subarctic climates.
• MOOSE (noun). The noun MOOSE has 1 sense: 1. large northern deer with enormous flattened antlers in the male; called 'elk' in Europe and 'moose' in North America. Familiarity information: MOOSE used as a noun is very rare. 
Definition of MOOSE for Kids. : a large animal with broad flattened antlers and humped shoulders that is related to the deer and lives in forests of Canada, the northern United States, Europe, and Asia. : a ruminant mammal (Alces alces) with humped shoulders, long legs, and broadly palmated antlers that is the largest existing member of the deer family and inhabits forested area
If Moose has come passing through your life: Know and understand that you – and only you – have the authority to make your own choices in life. You do not need to feel ashamed or pressured in any way by your friends and peers in that what you choose is different from them. Stand strong and proud and own who you are! 
The moose (North America) or elk (Eurasia), Alces alces, is the largest extant species in the deer family. Moose are distinguished by the palmate antlers of the males; other members of the family have antlers with a dendritic (twig-like) configuration. Moose typically inhabit boreal and mixed deciduous forests of the Northern Hemisphere in temperate to subarctic climates. Antler beam diameter, not the number of tines, indicates age. In North America moose (A. a. americanus) antlers are usually larger than those of Eurasian moose and have two lobes on each side, like a butterfly. Eurasian moose antlers resemble a seashell, with a single lobe on each side.
Moose are the largest members of the deer family, according to the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. They are also the tallest mammals in North America. Their height, from hoof to shoulder, ranges from 5 to 6.5 feet (1.5 to 2 meters). Moose is an Algonquin (a Native American tribe) term that means twig eater, according to ADW. This is a good generalization of what moose eat in the wild. They tend to graze on the leaves, bark, pine cones, twigs and buds of trees and shrubs. They also like to eat aquatic plants like water lilies.
The moose is a symbol of pride, life, and strength. In nature, the Moose despite its large size, is able to move around quickly and almost silently. It is a solitary creature that moves with grace and confidence. People with the moose totem have an instinctive sense of balance. Moose Dream Symbolism. Dreaming of a moose in the wild is a sign of a beneficial change coming. If you harm it, then it is a sign of unresolved family problems. A baby moose is said to be an omen of forthcoming good luck.