The Meaning of Malchus’ Ear This morning I mentioned many of the monuments that the Romans left behind (The Colosseum, Hadrian’s Wall, Trajan’s column). 
Meaning & History. Means my king in Hebrew, from the root melek, meaning king. According to the Gospel of John in the New Testament, this was the name of a servant of Caiaphas who participated in the arrest of Jesus at Gethsemane. The apostle Simon Peter cut off Malchus' ear with a sword. 
Biblical Meaning: The name Malchus is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Malchus is: My king; kingdom; or counselor. SoulUrge Number: 4. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire for order and physical creativity, and want to be involved in conventional, safe activities. 
The name Malchus in the Bible. The name Malchus occurs only once in the Bible. He was the unfortunate servant of high priest Caiaphas, whose right ear got cut off during the arrest of Jesus in the garden of Gethsemane. Only John adds the detail that this man's name was Malchus and that the sword-wielding person was none other than Simon Peter (John 18:10). Only Luke submits that Jesus healed the ear (Luke 22:51).
The name of the servant of the high priest Caiaphas whose right ear was smitten off by Simon Peter at the arrest of Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane (compare Matthew 26:51; Mark 14:47; Luke 22:50; John 18:10). It is noteworthy that Luke the physician alone gives an account of the healing of the wound (Luke 22:51). He is mentioned only by John. Peter cut off his right ear in the garden of Gethsemane (John 18:10). But our Lord cured it with a touch (Matthew 26:51; Mark 14:47; Luke 22:51). This was the last miracle of bodily cure wrought by our Lord. It is not mentioned by John.
reigning, the personal servant or slave of the high priest Caiaphas. He is mentioned only by John. Peter cut off his right ear in the garden of Gethsemane (John 18:10). But our Lord cured it with a touch (Matthew 26:51; Mark 14:47; Luke 22:51). This was the last miracle of bodily cure wrought by our Lord. It is not mentioned by John.
Meaning of Malchus. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Malchus means-my king, kingdom, or counselor.The name Malchus originated as an Israeli name. The name Malchus is most often used as a boy name or male name. Israeli Name Meaning-my king, kingdom, or counselor
Malchus, Servant of the High Priest. Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it and struck the high priest’s servant, cutting off his right ear. (The servant’s name was Malchus.) Jesus commanded Peter, “Put your sword away! But Jesus answered, “No more of this!” And he touched the man’s ear and healed him. Luke 22:49-51. This incident is recorded in each of the four gospels; only John names Malchus as the servant and Peter as the disciple. Only Luke mentions Jesus' healing of the ear. It's worth noting that the gospel writers, as men, wrote details that were important to them. John, as a devout Jew, knew that power and purpose of names.
Also, Luke is the only gospel that says Jesus healed the servant's ear. The relevant passage in the Gospel of John, KJV, reads: 10 Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. 