Construction of recombinant DNA, in which a foreign DNA fragment is inserted into a plasmid vector. In this example, the gene indicated by the white color is inactivated upon insertion of the foreign DNA fragment. Recombinant DNA is the general name for a piece of DNA that has been created by the combination of at least two strands. Recombinant DNA molecules are sometimes called chimeric DNA, because they can be made of material from two different species, like the mythical chimera
Recombinant DNA technology: A series of procedures that are used to join together (recombine) DNA segments. A recombinant DNA molecule is constructed from segments of two or more different DNA molecules. Under certain conditions, a recombinant DNA molecule can enter a cell and replicate there, either on its own or after it has been integrated into a chromosome.
DNA sequences from another organism of the same or a different species may also be introduced into the molecule, which is then replicated, resulting in both genotypic and phenotypic alterations in the organism that carries the recombinant DNA.n. Genetically engineered DNA prepared by transplanting or splicing one or more segments of DNA into the chromosomes of an organism from a different species. Such DNA becomes part of the host's genetic makeup and is replicated.
Recombinant DNA. Recombinant DNA refers to DNA which has been altered by joining genetic material from two different sources. It usually involves putting a gene from one organism into the genome of a different organism, generally of a different species. 
Medical Definition of RECOMBINANT DNA. : genetically engineered DNA usually incorporating DNA from more than one species of organism. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : genetically engineered DNA usually incorporating DNA from more than one species of organism. ADVERTISEMENT
recombinant DNA. any recombined DNA, esp. that formed in the laboratory by splicing together pieces of DNA from different species, as to create new life forms, modify existing ones, or produce useful biological chemicals, as insulin.bbr. rDNA. noun. Genetically engineered DNA prepared by transplanting or splicing genes from one species into the cells of a host organism of a different species. Such DNA becomes part of the host's genetic makeup and is replicated.
recombinant DNA, a DNA molecule in which rearrangement of the genes has been experimentally induced. Enzymes are used to break isolated DNA molecules into fragments that are then rearranged in the desired sequence.NA sequences from another organism of the same or a different species may also be introduced into the molecule, which is then replicated, resulting in both genotypic and phenotypic alterations in the organism that carries the recombinant DNA.
1. the new entity (e.g., gene, protein, cell, individual) that results from genetic recombination. 2. pertaining or relating to such an entity. recombinant DNA technology the process of taking a gene from one organism and inserting it into the DNA of another; called also gene splicing. One commonly used technique involves the insertion of a new fragment of DNA that codes for a specific protein such as human insulin into a bacterium such as Escherichia coli
A form of DNA produced by combining genetic material from two different sources by means of genetic engineering. Recombinant DNA can be used to change the genetic makeup of a cell, as in adding a gene to make a bacterial cell produce insulin. a DNA molecule in which the genetic material has been artificially broken down so that genes from another organism can be intro-duced and the molecule then recombined, the result being alterations in the genetic characteristics of the original molecule.