Defense attorney's often get a harsh reputation due to media scrutiny: defending the accused is not always an easy job and having a client's freedom or future resting on your abilities can be quite stressful. Consider the pros and cons in the following tables when making your decision about becoming a defense attorney. Education and Training Requirements. To become a defense attorney, you must complete a minimum of seven years of schooling, including four years to earn a bachelor's degree and three years of law school.
Salary ranges for defense lawyers can vary significantly depending on where they are employed. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the mean 2013 annual salary for lawyers employed by state and federal government were $83,600 and $130,760, respectively (www.bls.gov). The average annual salary for lawyers in general that year was $131,990, as reported by the BLS
Job Description and Duties. As a defense attorney, you take the responsibility of protecting your client's constitutional rights and forcing the prosecution to take on the burden of proof in a court of law. Education and Training Requirements. To become a defense attorney, you must complete a minimum of seven years of schooling, including four years to earn a bachelor's degree and three years of law school.
Attorney / Lawyer Salary. (United States). The average pay for an Attorney / Lawyer is $77,252 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on salary for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience
Criminal defense attorneys are either public defenders who are appointed by the state, local or federal government for defending the clients or they are employed by a private firm. Certain defense lawyers even set up their own private service. Based on where they are employed the salaries of the attorneys may vary. However the median salary for a reputed criminal defense attorney in a private law firm is somewhere around $79,000 while a public defender is paid around $70000 per year. ABOUT THE AUTHOR: Robert David Malove, Esq. 
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, lawyers employed by the federal government tend to earn the highest salaries of any public attorneys, an average of $129,430 per year. By comparison, state attorneys averaged $81,960 and local government attorneys $93,070 per year. Public defenders tend to make slightly more than prosecutors, according to the NALP. As of 2012, starting public defenders reported a median salary of $50,500 per year, while those with five years of experience reported salaries of $62,800 and those with between 11 and 15 years earned a median of $78,600.
Salary & Job Outlook. The average salary of a criminal lawyer is $78,500. However, the salary can range from $45,000 to $130,000. Interestingly, private criminal lawyers make the lowest earnings among lawyers. Experience and rising to the top of the career ladder however increases a criminal lawyer’s pay scale. Under the U.S. Constitution, everyone accused of a crime has the right to a lawyer’s defense. It is criminal lawyers who represent defendants in and out of court. They make several attempts to settle the case outside of court but occasionally, they must go to trial.