Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory disease that sometimes happens after an infection caused by a bacteria called group A Streptococcus, like strep throat or scarlet fever. Rheumatic fever happens when the infection is not completely treated with medicine (antibiotics). It may affect the heart, joints, skin and brain. 
Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory disease that can develop as a complication of inadequately treated strep throat or scarlet fever. Strep throat and scarlet fever are caused by an infection with group A streptococcus bacteria. Rheumatic fever is most common in 5- to 15-year-old children, though it can develop in younger children and adults.
A rare but potentially life-threatening disease, rheumatic fever is a complication of untreated strep throat caused by bacteria called group A streptococcus. Rheumatic fever can also cause a temporary nervous system disorder once known as St. Vitus' dance, now known as Sydenham's chorea. This is a nervous disorder -- characterized by rapid, jerky, involuntary movements of the body, usually occurring more on one side of the body.
Rheumatic fever may develop as a complication after a throat infection with Streptococcus pyogenes, or group A streptococcus (a bacterium). Strep throat, and less commonly scarlet fever are infections caused by Group A streptococcus infections. Group A streptococcus skin infections, as well as infections in other parts of the body may lead to rheumatic fever (much less common). Rheumatic fever mainly affects children aged between 5 and 15 years; however, it can affect adults and younger children. Boys and girls have the same risk of developing the disease; girls and women tend to have more severe symptoms. The disease may cause long term effects on the skin, heart, brain and joints.
Rheumatic Fever and Rheumatic Heart Disease. Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory disorder casued by a Group A strep throat infection. It affects the connective tissue of the body, causing temporary, painful arthritis and other symptoms. In some cases rheumatic fever causes long-term damage to the heart and its valves. This is called rheumatic heart disease. Rheumatic fever occurs as a result of a rare strain of strep throat that isn’t treated with antibiotics quickly enough or at all. Doctors aren’t sure why this rare strain of strep triggers this inflammatory disorder.
Rheumatic fever (acute rheumatic fever or ARF) is an autoimmune disease that may occur after a group A streptococcal throat infection that causes inflammatory lesions in connective tissue, especially that of the heart, joints, blood vessels, and subcutaneous tissue. 1 Rheumatic fever does not affect all individuals who have had a strep throat infection. 2  Rheumatic fever affects the joints, heart, skin, and nervous system. 3  Antibiotics are used to treat the strep throat infection and may prevent development of rheumatic fever.
Knowledge center. Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory disease that may develop as a complication of a streptococcus infection, such as strep throat or scarlet fever (caused by Streptococcus pyogenes or group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus). Rheumatic fever mainly affects children aged between 5 and 15 years; however, it can affect adults and younger children. Boys and girls have the same risk of developing the disease; girls and women tend to have more severe symptoms. The disease may cause long term effects on the skin, heart, brain and joints.
Rheumatic fever, also known as acute rheumatic fever (ARF), is an inflammatory disease that can involve the heart, joints, skin, and brain. The disease typically develops two to four weeks after a throat infection. Acute rheumatic fever may occur following an infection of the throat by the bacteria Streptococcus pyogenes. If it is untreated ARF occurs in up to three percent of people. The underlying mechanism is believed to involve the production of antibodies against a person's own tissues
Rheumatic fever is a complication of untreated strep throat (caused by a group A streptococcal infection). Rheumatic fever can damage body tissues by causing them to swell, but its greatest danger lies in the damage it can do to your heart. 