Young has claimed that he wrote the song for a city girl on peeling pavement coming at me through Phil Ochs ' eyes playing finger cymbals. It was hard to explain to my wife.. The city girl playing finger cymbals is a reference to folk singer Jean Ray. Introducing the song at a performance associated with Writer's Week at Whittier College (California) in April, 2015, Los Lobos co-founder Louie Perez said that when he first heard Cinnamon Girl, he was sure it was about a Mexican girl. It has no compositional relation to the 2004 song of the same name by Prince.
Back in the 50's when he started recording the first song he did was Mr. Bass Man which became a hit. Subsequently any songs thereafter he did a psuedo name was used which brings us to Cinnamon. He did other songs thereafter under different names. Someone has labeled it incorrectly from Limewire. That group featured Eric Clapton and the late great Duane Allman. Cinnamon was a one-hit wonder by Derek that came out about 1968, before Derek & The Dominos were even formed.
Johnny Cymbal (born John Hendry Blair; February 3, 1945 – March 16, 1993) was a Scottish-born American songwriter, singer, and record producer who had numerous hit records, including his signature song, Mr. Bass Man. Johnny Cymbal was born in Ochiltree, Ayrshire, Scotland on February 3, 1945 and named John Hendry Blair. His mother's maiden name was Jean Hendry. He had an older brother and sister, Andy and Sylvia Blair. People often thought Johnny Cymbal was a stage name, but that was not the case.
Cinnamon Girl has been covered by many artists: 1  Tool (band) recorded a version that was never formally released. 2  The Gentrys recorded a version for a 1970 single release on Sun Records. 3  Type O Negative on their 1996 album October Rust. 4  Replicants on their 1995 self-titled album. Introducing the song at a performance associated with Writer's Week at Whittier College (California) in April, 2015, Los Lobos co-founder Louie Perez said that when he first heard Cinnamon Girl, he was sure it was about a Mexican girl. It has no compositional relation to the 2004 song of the same name by Prince.
Cinnamon Girl  is a song by Neil Young. It debuted on the 1969 album Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere, which was also Young's first album with backing band Crazy Horse. Released as a single the following year, it reached #55 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1970. Introducing the song at a performance associated with Writer's Week at Whittier College (California) in April, 2015, Los Lobos co-founder Louie Perez said that when he first heard Cinnamon Girl, he was sure it was about a Mexican girl. It has no compositional relation to the 2004 song of the same name by Prince.
Johnny Cymbal co-wrote, co-produced and was lead vocalist on Cinnamon, which was released on the BANG label (Bang 558). For the release, John used the alias Derek, the name of his younger brother. A band was put together and Derek went on the road performing the new hit. Cinnamon which reached #11, 
Young has never said who the Cinnamon Girl is, as he prefers to leave lyric interpretations to the listener. In the liner notes of his Decade compilation, he stated: Wrote this for a city girl on peeling pavement coming at me thru Phil Ochs eyes playing finger cymbals. I just read his autobiography Waging Heavy Peace this November of 2012. His car was broken down on the freeway one day in California. The tow truck driver who came to help asked if he was Neil Young and he said yes. Who was Cinnamon Girl the tow truck driver asked.
I have it got it off of Limewire but there was only one person that had it at the time so I assume it is hard to find online and free. Milt dcd435@yahoo.com There was a song called Cinnamon from the '60's that was sung by a singer named Derek, but am not certain if this is the one you seek. Actually a performer named Johnny Cymbal co wrote the song and put out the record under his brother's name who was named Derek. Someone has labeled it incorrectly from Limewire. That group featured Eric Clapton and the late great Duane Allman. Cinnamon was a one-hit wonder by Derek that came out about 1968, before Derek & The Dominos were even formed.
Well, this is what we think it would be like... Cinnamon Girl by Neil Young & His Electric Band with Rick Rosas, Ben Keith, Chad Cromwell, Anthony Crawford and Pegi Young. Madison Square Garden, New York on December 16, 2008. It was the last stop on his 2008 North American Tour. And as we scanned the Decade box album liner notes, we recall how Neil -- absolutely totally astonishingly -- wrote Down by the River, Cinnamon Girl, and Cowgirl in the Sand all in a single afternoon -- while sick and delirious with a 103 degree temperature.
If we look at the Decade box album, Neil's hand written note about the song Cinnamon Girl says: Wrote this for a city girl on peeling pavement coming at me thru Phil Ochs eyes playing finger cymbals. It was hard to explain to my wife.. The mystery of Cinnamon Girl only deepens. And as we scanned the Decade box album liner notes, we recall how Neil -- absolutely totally astonishingly -- wrote Down by the River, Cinnamon Girl, and Cowgirl in the Sand all in a single afternoon -- while sick and delirious with a 103 degree temperature.