Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. Whether this food is cooked or raw it will only last a few days in the refrigerator.This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight co … ntainer for best results. It can later be transferred to the freezer for longer storage. 2 people found this useful.
Best Answer: Actually Chef Chris is closest to the correct answer. According to the Food Code, you can keep UNCOOKED hamburger for up to 2 days, and COOKED hamburger up to 5 days, if it is stored properly. As far as meat from the supermarket, which is were 95% get their meat from, there is a expiration date on all meats. 
Meats and Poultry. 1  Raw sausage (pork, beef, or turkey): 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken or turkey dishes: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 to 6 months (freezer). 3  Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 1
Report Abuse. Store raw meat (beef, lamb, veal, pork) for up to five days in the refrigerator; four to twelve months in the freezer. Poultry and ground meats can be kept in the fridge for up to two days before cooking and one to four months in the freezer. For a comprehensive list of how long foods can be safely stored, see sites such as www.foodsafety.gov and pastrywiz.com/storage. Package foods correctly to lengthen their storage life. 
1 How long does ground beef last in the fridge once it is cooked? 2  Cooked ground beef will usually stay good for 3 to 4 days in the fridge and 3 months in the freezer. 1 After ground beef is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the ground beef will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . Whether this food is cooked or raw it will only last a few days in the refrigerator.This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight co … ntainer for best results. It can later be transferred to the freezer for longer storage. 2 people found this useful.
1 Ground beef that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; ground beef that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 After ground beef is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the ground beef will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 3 people found this useful.
A Ground beef should be used within two days of purchase. Be sure to check the use by information on the package label before purchase. You can store ground beef safely in your refrigerator at 35 to 40 degrees, for one to two days. If you can't use it within that time, freeze it. It can be stored frozen for three to four months.
Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge. Whether this food is cooked or raw it will only last a few days in the refrigerator.This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight co … ntainer for best results. It can later be transferred to the freezer for longer storage. 2 people found this useful.