There are a few differences between the two. Some are than lithium ion batteries are rechargable whilst lithium batteries cannot be recharged. Also lithium batte … ries use lithium in pure forms whilst lithium ion batteries use lithium compounds to produce their charge.
This article is very, very poor. Lithium-Polymer batteries have 20% or higher energy density than Lithium-Ions. That is why a smaller Li-Poly battery can have the same capacity as a Li-Ion. It is also one of the reasons they are more expensive.
Lithium vs. Lithium Ion. First, to be clear, there is a world of difference between a lithium battery and a lithium ion battery. Casually, people call lithium ion batteries lithium batteries, but there is an important distinction: you cannot recharge lithium batteries. Fortunately, you won't have a need to for a long time.
Answers. Best Answer: Lithium ion batteries (sometimes abbreviated Li-Ion) are a type of rechargeable battery commonly used in consumer electronics. They are currently one of the most popular types of battery, with one of the best energy-to-weight ratios, no memory effect and a slow loss of charge when not in use.
1 Lithium-ion polymer batteries or LiPo’s chemical composition is different from Li-Ion battery. 2  The electrolyte used in Li-polymer is a nonconducting solid polymer composite (polyacrylonitrile), which allows ion exchange between the two electrodes. 3  The cell thickness of Li-polymer is less (0.039 inches) than Li-ion.
They both have similar capabilities, but the main difference is that Lithium Polymer batteries can be shaped/molded in ways that Lithium Ion batteries simply can't. Lithium Polymer batteries are used in lots of hobby equipment, very small devices, and anywhere else where a certain shape of battery is required.
The main difference between a 4000 mAH and a 4400 mAH lithium ion  battery is that lithium ion batteries are designed to last longer.  These batteries are commonly used with … in laptops.       A 4400 mAh battery has 10% more capacity than one rated at 4000  mAh.
Li-ion batteries have more capacity than Li-polymer and have an even larger size than Li-po. Both Li-ion and Li-polymer batteries are secondary batteries, i.e. rechargeable, and are more costly to manufacture than nickel-based rechargeable batteries. Following are some basic differences between these two