An oocyte (UK /ˈoʊəsʌɪt/ , US /ˈoʊ.oʊ.saɪt/), ooecyte, oöcyte, ovocyte or rarely, ocyte is a female gametocyte or germ cell involved in. Reproduction in other, words it is an immature, ovum or egg. Cell an oocyte is produced in the ovary during female. gametogenesis An oocyte is produced in the ovary during female gametogenesis. The female germ cells produce a primordial germ cell (PGC), which then undergoes mitosis, forming oogonia. During oogenesis, the oogonia become primary oocytes.
o·o·cyte. n. A diploid cell from which an egg or ovum develops by meiosis. A primary oocyte divides to produce a polar body and a secondary oocyte, which divides again to produce the ovum and another polar body. (ˈəʊəˌsaɪt). 
The primary oocyte grows much larger and completes the meiosis I, forming a large secondary oocyte and a small polar body that receives little more than one set of chromosomes. Which chromosomes end up in the egg and which in the polar body is entirely a matter of chance. primary oocyte During oogenesis, the immature egg cell in which the first meiotic division begins, leading to the production of the first polar body and the secondary oocyte.
o·o·cyte. n. A diploid cell from which an egg or ovum develops by meiosis. A primary oocyte divides to produce a polar body and a secondary oocyte, which divides again to produce the ovum and another polar body. 
primary oocyte. n. An oocyte that is in its growth phase and is at a stage that is prior to the completion of the first maturation division. 
oocyte. an immature ovum; it is derived from an oogonium, and is called a primary oocyte prior to completion of the first maturation division, and a secondary oocyte between the first and second maturation division. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. oocyte. an immature ovum; it is derived from an oogonium, and is called a primary oocyte prior to completion of the first maturation division, and a secondary oocyte between the first and second maturation division. (ō'ō-sīt),
Primary oocyte. Definition. noun, plural: primary oocytes. The oocyte that arises from the oogonium via the process of oocytogenesis, and gives rise to secondary oocyte and polar body after first meiotic division (meiosis I). Supplement. In humans, the primary oocytes are produced by the process of oocytogenesis that occurs during embryonic stage. At that time each oogonium inside the ovaries of the fetus divides and enters the initial stage of meiosis I to become the primary oocyte.
The primary follicle initially consists of a primary oocyte surrounded by a ... the oocyte and surrounding granulosa cells and transport amino acids, ... ... follicle consists of a primary oocyte surrounded by a layer of ... An oocyte is considered primary if it has not yet undergone its first meiotic division. Primary oocyte. An oocyte, ovocyte, or rarely ocyte, is a female gametocyte or germ cell involved in reproduction. In other words, it is an immature ovum, or egg cell.