Healthy foods for good nervous system function include the following: Spinach —In addition to containing a powerhouse stock of nutrients and vitamins, this leafy green vegetable also contains an abundance of antioxidants to boost overall health and slow down the aging of the brain and nervous system. Good foods for vitamin B1 are beef liver, seafood, brewer’s yeast, beans, eggs and sunflower seeds. Vitamin B6. Nerve cell communication suffers without this vitamin. Two key neurotransmitters, dopamine and serotonin, depend on vitamin B6 for their production.
Foods Good for Nerves: Nerve damage that results from injury or illness can be repaired through consumption of foods that are beneficial for the immune system. Such foods include those that contain vitamins A, B, C and D, minerals and some antioxidants. Before we spell out a diet for nerves, it is important to understand that for the nervous system to operate in a healthy manner, diet, exercise, and relaxation must all go hand in hand. If you are suffering from nervous disorders, diet alone will not help. Work on improving stress resistance and sleep patterns.
Vitamin B1 (thiamin). A deficiency of this vitamin can give you that pins-and-needles sensation in the toes or burning feet, especially at night. Good foods for vitamin B1 are beef liver, seafood, brewer’s yeast, beans, eggs and sunflower seeds. Vitamin B6. Nerve cell communication suffers without this vitamin. Two key neurotransmitters, dopamine and serotonin, depend on vitamin B6 for their production.
Here are seven powerful foods that can help calm your nervous system naturally for maximum health: 1) Whey. Because it is naturally rich in L-tryptophan, not to mention a whole range of other healing amino acids and nutrients, whey is an excellent food for calming your nervous system naturally. In order for your brain and nervous system to function as they should, your body needs a high input of fat-soluble vitamins that contribute to the building up of the fatty layers that protect your nerves from damage. And one such vitamin is vitamin K, which you can get in high amounts by eating spinach.
Healthy Food for the Nerves. Your nerve impulses allow you to flex your muscles. You may have heard of brain food and a heart-healthy diet, but certain foods also help boost your nerve health. A vast network of nerves connects your brain and spinal cord -- the central nervous system -- to every part of your body through the peripheral nervous system. Sunflower Seeds. Sunflower seeds are versatile as a low-fat snack or tossed into a salad or stew. They are a good source of vitamin B-6, an important nutrient for nerve health and energy production in your body. This essential vitamin is necessary in the production of chemicals that send messages between neurons in nerves. Low levels of vitamin B-6 can lead to muscle fatigue and other symptoms
But if you’re not getting a sufficient amount of the nutrients needed for good nervous system health, you can experience such as numbness, nervous twitches or even muscle cramps. Fortunately, one of the easiest things you can do to help ensure a healthy nervous system is to eat the right kinds of foods. Good foods for vitamin B1 are beef liver, seafood, brewer’s yeast, beans, eggs and sunflower seeds. Vitamin B6. Nerve cell communication suffers without this vitamin. Two key neurotransmitters, dopamine and serotonin, depend on vitamin B6 for their production.
While a healthy, varied diet can meet your nerves' day-to-day nutritional needs, choosing supplements or foods that provide the right types and amounts of nerve-specific nutrients can keep your nervous system healthy and resilient. Folic Acid. Folic acid, a B-complex vitamin known for its contribution to healthy nervous system development and prevention of neural-tube defects, might help repair damaged nerves in the adult brain and spinal cord, according to an animal study published in the 2004 issue of the journal Annals of Neurology..
A vitamin B-12 deficiency harms the nervous system and can cause symptoms such as numbness and tingling in the feet and hands. Clams serve as an an excellent source of vitamin B-12, along with fish, meat, eggs and dairy products. Foods derived from plants do not contain vitamin B-12. Chronic lack of vitamin B-1 in the diet can lead to nerve dysfunction, causing symptoms that include pins and needles in the toes, burning foot syndrome – a painful condition wherein the feet burn constantly, especially at night – and muscle wasting.