Brussels sprouts can be stored in the refrigerator for about 2 weeks. If you can accurately control your storage conditions, storing Brussels sprouts at 32°F (0°C) with a relative humidity of 95 to 100%, will allow you to keep them for up to 5 weeks. However, it should be noted that the longer Brussels sprouts are stored, the stronger their flavour becomes. Storing Brussels Sprouts: The following tips will help you with storing Brussels Sprouts: 1  Any wilted or yellow leaves should be gently removed before storing Brussels sprouts. 2  Don’t wash the Brussels sprouts before storing them. 3  Loosely wrap your Brussels sprouts in a paper towel and then wrap in a plastic bag.
Step 2. Wrap the Brussels sprouts in a plastic bag and place them in the crisper of your refrigerator. Do not wash them first. Brussels sprouts will keep for about five to ten days in normal refrigerator temperatures. However, if you can store Brussels sprouts like the professionals can--in 32 degrees F with a relative humidity of 95 to 100%--then they will store for up to five weeks. 
Fresh brussel sprouts should stay fresh in the refrigerator for up to two weeks. They can get a bit gassy, so it is best to store them in paper and leave some vent holes. 20 people found this useful. Edit. 
Store Brussels sprouts in a plastic bag in your refrigerator's crisper, where they'll keep for at least one week, if not a little longer. Sprouts still on the stalk will stay fresh longer than those sold individually. 
Storing Beets. Roots will keep for up to 3 weeks in the refrigerator and the leaves for up to a week if stored in an airtight plastic bag. Storing Broccoli. Heads will keep in the refrigerator for up to a week. Storing Brussels Sprouts. Early winter sprouts left on the stem and hung in a cool dry place will keep for up to a month. Singly harvested, they will keep for 7-10 days in the refrigerator. Store in the refrigerator 5-7 days. Do not store in plastic bags. Storing Okra. Will keep a few days in the refrigerator. Storing Onion. Store bulbs in a cool, dry place in an open weave mesh basket or bag to allow free air circulation. Do not store with other vegetables.
Fresh, unwashed sprouts will keep in the refrigerator for about a week, and longer if you keep them on the stalk. Brussels sprouts deliver in home gardens long after all the other vegetables have given up. 
Fresh brussel sprouts should stay fresh in the refrigerator for up to two weeks. They can get a bit gassy, so it is best to store them in paper and leave some vent holes. 
a. Even though brussel sprouts and cabbage last a long time in the fridge, for optimum quality it's recommended to cook them in 3-4 days after purchase. It's also recommended to freeze them if you don't plan on using them for awhile. Reply.
For the freshest sprouts, sprout your own, then store them in the refrigerator. If you've bought some, try to get them into the refrigerator as soon as you can. If you handle them properly, they should keep for a few weeks in the refrigerator. Place the bag in the refrigerator. If your sprouts are still slightly damp, poke a few holes in the plastic bag to let them dry and place them in the refrigerator. Once they do dry, seal them in a new, airtight bag. Rinse the sprouts with cold water daily to extend their shelf life.