Each heavy chain has two regions, the constant region and the variable region. The constant region is identical in all antibodies of the same isotype, but differs in antibodies of different isotypes. The F(ab) regions contain the variable domain that binds to cognate antigens. The Fc fragment provides a binding site for endogenous Fc receptors on the surface of lymphocytes, and is also the site of binding for secondary antibodies.
The immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) is the large polypeptide subunit of an antibody (immunoglobulin). A typical antibody is composed of two immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chains and two Ig light chains. Several different types of heavy chain exist that define the class or isotype of an antibody. These heavy chain types vary between different animals. 
the variable region determines the antibody's specificity (no known effector function) the constant region determines the function of the antibody--determines the class or isotype of the antibody (IgA, IgM, IgE, IgD, IgG) * (the constant domain in the LIGHT chain does NOT determine function). IgA, IgG, and IgD have 3 constant domains in the heavy chain. these each have one hinge region between domain 1 and 2. IgM and IgE have 4 constant domains in the heavy chain. These do NOT have a hinge region and are thus less flexible. all have 1 constant domain in the light chain.
Hypervariable regions are regions within the variable regions in both heavy and light chains hypervariable regions are also termed complementary determining regions, CDRs. These regions form the paratope, which is another term given to the part of the variable region that contacts the epitopes on the antigen. When (animal) antibodies are generated that recognize the (human) antibody Fc region/constant region, the antibodies are antiisotypic antibodies.
Each antibody consists of four polypeptides two heavy chains and two light chains joined to form a Y shaped molecule. The amino acid sequence in the tips of the Y varies greatly among different antibodies. This variable region, composed of 110-130 amino acids, give the antibody its specificity for binding antigen. The variable region includes the ends of the light and heavy chains. Treating the antibody with a protease can cleave this region, producing Fab or fragment antigen binding that include the variable ends of an antibody. Material used for the studies shown below originated from Fab. The constant region determines the mechanism used to destroy antigen.
Define epitope. Epitope is the small region on an antigen that binds to the variable region of an antibody molecule. Each variable domain of an antibody molecule has 3 hypervariable regions (where the epitope of the antigen binds) and 4 framework regions (~80AAs). Each hypervariable region is very short, about 8-11 AAs long and complements the epitope on the antigen. IgA, IgG, and IgD have 3 constant domains in the heavy chain. these each have one hinge region between domain 1 and 2. IgM and IgE have 4 constant domains in the heavy chain. These do NOT have a hinge region and are thus less flexible. all have 1 constant domain in the light chain.
New data indicate that both the variable, antigen-binding region of an antibody and the Fc region are capable of influencing anti-cancer immunity (pages 443−446). The technology to create monoclonal antibodies was first described 25 years ago. 
An antibody, also known as an immunoglobulin, is a glycoprotein capable of binding to the cognate antigen against which it was raised. They are produced in response to the invasion of foreign molecules in the body. Antibodies exist as one or more copies of a Y-shaped unit, composed of four polypeptide chains. The F(ab) regions contain the variable domain that binds to cognate antigens. The Fc fragment provides a binding site for endogenous Fc receptors on the surface of lymphocytes, and is also the site of binding for secondary antibodies.
Light chain antibody regions consist of a constant region (C), a joining region (J) and a variable region (V). During the differentiation of the B cell, a deletion joins one V region to one J region. Transcription of the light chain antibody DNA proceeds through the C region and includes the V and J regions. Figure 15.17 B cell differentiation. Determination of the variable region of an antibody occurs during the differentiation of the B cell. As it matures, the variable region is randomly picked from several choices and this is spliced to a constant region. Millions of variable regions are possible by this mechanism.
Antibodies are ‘Y’ shaped and the two arms of the ‘Y’ are known as the variable region. This means it is specifically coded to interact with a certain antigen, just as a key is specific for a lock (see Figure 14). The stick of the ‘Y’ is the same in all antibodies (the constant region). It is the variable region (the two arms) that interract with and attach to the antigen. When the antibody sticks to the antigen it neutralises it so that the foreign organism can no longer enter a human cell or cause harm (see Figure 15). 