Majority leader. In U.S. politics, the majority floor leader is a partisan position in a legislative body. In the federal Congress, the role of the Majority Leader of the United States House of Representatives and the Majority Leader of the United States Senate differ slightly. 
The Senate is currently composed of 54 Republicans, 44 Democrats, and 2 independents, both of whom caucus with the Democrats. The current leaders are Republican Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Democratic Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada. The current Assistant Majority Leader is Republican John Cornyn of Texas. The Senate Majority and Minority Leaders are two United States Senators who are elected by the party caucuses that hold the majority and the minority respectively.
The Minority Leader (also known as the Republican Leader) is the second-most powerful position in the Senate. Elected by members of the Minority Caucus, he or she speaks for the Minority Party, maintains its inner discipline, and works with the President pro Tempore to set the Senate's order of business. 
The current Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, of the United States House of Representatives serves as floor leader of the opposition party, and is the counterpart to the Majority Leader. Unlike the Majority Leader, the Minority Leader is on the ballot for Speaker of the House during the convening of the Congress. By contrast, party leaders of the United States Senate have often ascended to their position despite relatively few years of experience in that chamber, such as Lyndon B. Johnson, William F. Knowland, and Bill Frist.
WASHINGTON — Three decades after arriving in the capital city as the junior senator from Kentucky, Mitch McConnell on Tuesday became the U.S. Senate's majority leader and, with House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio, one of the two most powerful Republicans in the nation. House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid of Nevada, and McConnell participate in an event commemorating the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, on Sept. 12, 2011, on Capitol Hill.
The majority party members and the minority party members meet separately to select their leaders. Third parties rarely have had enough members to elect their own leadership, and independents will generally join one of the larger party organizations to receive committee assignments. A party caucus or conference is the name given to a meeting of or organization of all party members in the House.
Democratic U.S. Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada served as Senate majority leader in the 113th Congress. The Senate majority leader is elected be members of his party to represent them on the floor. The majority leader also serves as a spokesman for their party's position and for the Senate as a whole. Republican U.S. Rep. Eric Cantor of Virginia served as House majority leader in the 113th Congress. It was his second consecutive term as House majority leader.
Republican U.S. Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky served as the Senate Republican leader in the 113th Congress. Like the Senate majority leader, the minority leader is elected be members of his party to represent them on the floor. The minority leader also serves as a spokesman for their party's position. Republican U.S. Rep. Eric Cantor of Virginia served as House majority leader in the 113th Congress. It was his second consecutive term as House majority leader.
The Assistant Majority and Minority Leaders of the United States Senate (commonly called Senate Majority and Minority Whips) are the second-ranking members of the party leadership of the United States Senate. The Senate Majority and Minority Leaders are two United States Senators who are elected by the party caucuses that hold the majority and the minority respectively.