As a student at a Texas college or university, you’ll be classified as either a Texas resident or non-resident. Your residency status affects your eligibility for: 1  Resident tuition at a Texas public college or university; and. 2  Financial aid at a Texas college or university. 
US citizenship or permanent residency is usually required for state residency for tuition purposes. For an international student to be considered a state resident they must have a status that permits them to remain indefinitely in the United States. Another source of information is the College Board's October 2001 guide to the state residency requirements in individual states. Due to its age, some of the information may no longer be accurate. DoD In-State Tuition provides information concerning the eligibility of members of the military for in-state tuition rates.
To qualify as a resident, the student must meet the following requirements: 1  Must have been physically present in California. 2  Must have taken steps to make California his/her sole state of residence as of one year and one day prior to the first day of the semester for which the student is being admitted. Non-U.S. citizens will be evaluated for residency based on immigration status as permanent residents or on the type of visa held, length of stay in California, and intent to maintain California as a permanent home.
The basic rule is: If you have legally resided in the state for 12 months prior to enrollment, you're eligible for in-state tuition rates (based on NJSA 18:62-1 et seq. and New Jersey Administrative Code Title 9). If you are classified as a resident student but you become nonresident at any time by virtue of a change of legal residence, you are required to notify the Registrar immediately. As an independent student, you lose residency status for in-state tuition payment immediately upon abandonment of the New Jersey domicile.
UGA considers the student to be a resident, for tuition purposes, of the parent or guardian's state of residence. 1  A legal guardian must provide court and/or financial documentation of support for the student. Independent students who wish to establish in-state tuition residency must document that their parent(s) have not claimed them as a tax dependent for the 12 months prior to the start of the term, and that the student provided 100% of their financial support as shown in federal and state tax returns.
If you ll turn 18 on or before the application deadline of the state aid program you re applying to, you must have lived in California for at least one year immediately before this date to be considered a California resident. If you re under age 18 and unmarried as of the application deadline of the state aid program you re applying to, you re considered to be a California resident if one of the following applies: 1  one of your parents is a legal California resident as of the program s application deadline.
Advertisement State residents often qualify for lower in-state tuition rates and state education grants. Most states have established residency requirements designed to prevent out-of-state students who become residents incidental to their education from qualifying. Another source of information is the College Board's October 2001 guide to the state residency requirements in individual states. Due to its age, some of the information may no longer be accurate. DoD In-State Tuition provides information concerning the eligibility of members of the military for in-state tuition rates.
Cal Grants and other state financial aid programs are for California residents only. If you re under age 18 and unmarried as of the application deadline of the state aid program you re applying to, you re considered to be a California resident if one of the following applies: 1  one of your parents is a legal California resident as of the program s application deadline.
If you aren t a California resident, you should still submit the FAFSA to apply for student aid from the federal government, your college and your state. If you re under age 18 and unmarried as of the application deadline of the state aid program you re applying to, you re considered to be a California resident if one of the following applies: 1  one of your parents is a legal California resident as of the program s application deadline.
These residency requirements are often encoded in state statute, and vary significantly from state to state. But generally, a dependent student must have at least one parent who is a state resident for at least one full year before the student matriculated in college. Another source of information is the College Board's October 2001 guide to the state residency requirements in individual states. Due to its age, some of the information may no longer be accurate. DoD In-State Tuition provides information concerning the eligibility of members of the military for in-state tuition rates.