Pancreatic lipase, also known as pancreatic triacylglycerol lipase, is secreted from the [pancreas], and is the primary [lipase](enzyme) that hydrolyzes (breaks down) dietary fat molecules in the human digestive system, converting triglyceride substrates found in ingested oils to monoglycerides and free fatty acids. 
A high lipase level in the blood may indicate the presence of a condition affecting the pancreas. In acute pancreatitis, lipase levels are frequently very high, often 5 to 10 times higher than the highest reference value (often called the upper limit of normal). Lipase concentrations typically rise within 4 to 8 hours of an acute pancreatic attack and remain elevated for up to 7 to 14 days.
A lipase is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of fats (lipids). Lipases are a subclass of the esterases. 
Lipase is an enzyme made by the pancreas. When you eat, lipase is released into the digestive tract to aid in the breakdown of fats. Lipase also functions to increase cell permeability. Cell permeability allows vital nutrients and wastes to flow across the cell wall. The nutrients nourish the cell. In many instances, the lipase test will be ordered in conjunction with the amylase test. An amylase test is used to diagnose diseases of the pancreas. The results from these tests are typically used to diagnose and monitor specific health conditions, including: 1  acute pancreatitis.
Lipase. Guide. A lipase test measures the amount of this enzyme in a blood sample. High amounts of lipase may be found in the blood when the pancreas is damaged or when the tube leading from the pancreas (pancreatic duct) to the beginning of the small intestine is blocked.
fat-splitting enzyme; abbreviated LPS. Any enzyme that catalyzes the splitting of fats into glycerol and fatty acids. The two important sources in the body are the pancreas and the intestinal mucosa. Measurement of the serum levels of lipase is an important diagnostic test for acute and chronic pancreatitis. See also pancreatic lipase.
A lipase test measures the amount of this enzyme in a blood sample. Results are normally available within 12 hours. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. 
lipase. fat-splitting enzyme; any enzyme that catalyzes the splitting of fats into glycerol and fatty acids. Measurement of the serum lipase level is an important diagnostic test for acute and chronic pancreatitis. Any enzyme that catalyzes the splitting of fats into glycerol and fatty acids. The two important sources in the body are the pancreas and the intestinal mucosa. Measurement of the serum levels of lipase is an important diagnostic test for acute and chronic pancreatitis. See also pancreatic lipase.