The cause of a urinary tract infection is bacteria, which often make their way from the digestive tract into the urinary system. One type of bacteria, Escherichia coli (or E. coli), normally lives in the colon. When introduced in the urinary tract, E. coli multiplies, and an infection results. Urinary tract infections can occur in different areas of the urinary system. The specific medical name of a urinary tract infection relates to its specific location in your body: 1  A bladder infection is called cystitis. 2  A kidney infection is known as pyelonephritis.
Examples of urinary disorders include cancers of the urinary tract, incontinence (inability to control urine flow), interstitial cystitis, kidney stones, kidney failure, and urinary tract infections. Treatment of urinary disorders involves identifying and treating the cause and symptoms. Some examples of possible treatments include self-care measures, medications to relieve pain, medications to relax the bladder, antibiotics, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery.
Diseases of the urinary system. Different specialists treat urinary system ailments. Nephrologists treat kidney diseases, while urologists treat problems with the urinary tract, including the kidneys, adrenal glands, ureters, bladder and urethra, according to the American Urological Association (AUA). The only difference between the female and male urinary system is the length of the urethra, according to Merck Manuals. In females, the urethra is about 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) to 2 inches (5.1 cm) long and sits between the clitoris and the vagina.
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 4  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it.
The urinary system, also known as the renal system, produces, stores and eliminates urine, the fluid waste excreted by the kidneys. The kidneys make urine by filtering wastes and extra water from blood. Urine travels from the kidneys through two thin tubes called ureters and fills the bladder. When the bladder is full, a person urinates through the urethra to eliminate the waste. The urinary system is susceptible to a variety of infections and other problems, including blockages and injuries. The only difference between the female and male urinary system is the length of the urethra, according to Merck Manuals. In females, the urethra is about 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) to 2 inches (5.1 cm) long and sits between the clitoris and the vagina.
Kidney and urinary tract disorders can involve one or both kidneys, one or both ureters, the bladder, or the urethra, and in men, the prostate, one or both testes, or the epididymis. Some urinary tract disorders rarely cause symptoms until the problem is very advanced. These include kidney failure, tumors and stones that do not block urine flow, and some low-grade infections. Sometimes, symptoms occur but are very general or vague and are not always obviously related to the kidneys. Symptoms that are more suggestive of a kidney or urinary problem include pain in the side (flank), swelling of the feet or legs, and problems with urination. Incontinence is an uncontrollable loss of urine, which can have a variety of causes (see Urinary Incontinence in Adults).
The urinary tract consists of the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. Your kidneys filter your blood, creating urine, which travels through the ureters to the bladder, where it is stored. When the appropriate time comes, the muscles of your bladder contract and urine exits your body through your urethra. Urinary disorders include any diseases, disorders or conditions that affect your kidneys, ureters, bladder or urethra, or that affect their function. Treatment of urinary disorders involves identifying and treating the cause and symptoms. Some examples of possible treatments include self-care measures, medications to relieve pain, medications to relax the bladder, antibiotics, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery.
Common symptoms of urinary disorders include abdominal, pelvic, or lower back pain or discomfort; blood in the urine; changes in the urine; difficulty producing urine; fever and chills; frequent urination; leaking of urine; and urgent need to urinate. Treatment of urinary disorders involves identifying and treating the cause and symptoms. Some examples of possible treatments include self-care measures, medications to relieve pain, medications to relax the bladder, antibiotics, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery.
Diseases of the urinary system can include your diseases of your kidneys, bladder disorders, urinary tract infections and the most dreaded of all urinary diseases, the kidney stone. What diseases affect the urinary system? By the way, that's not apple juice. Now that you know what diseases can affect your urinary system you may want to check out some other diseases of the digestive system. Chron's disease is particularly unpleasant and it affects hundreds of thousands of people.