Butterfly the tail, brush with butter or olive oil, place tails in a dish, add about 1 cup of water to the dish and in a preheated 400 degree oven bake a 6 to 8oz lobster tail for 8 to 10 minutes. 
1 Broil them for another 2-3 minutes and check again. 2  Don't overcook the lobster-the meat could become a bit rubbery. 3  Be sure to check after 10-12 minutes to see if the lobster is done. 4  As a general rule, broiled lobster requires 1 minute per ounce of meat to cook properly. 1 If the flesh still looks a little translucent, the lobster tails aren't ready yet. 2  Broil them for another 2-3 minutes and check again. 3  Don't overcook the lobster-the meat could become a bit rubbery. 4
Figure about 1 minute per ounce so a 4 ounce tail will take approximately 4 minutes but again, this depends on how close you have them to the broiler, are they at room temperature when you start and the efficiency of your oven. The answer to this depends on several factors – size of the lobster tails, distance from the broiler, gas or electric broiler all contribute to how long they will take to cook. I can tell you it takes exactly 8 minutes under the broiler to cook but then you may find them over or under cooked.
1 Add the ½ cup water to the pan. 2  Rinse the lobster tails and open them on a butterfly form. 3  Sprinkle the tails with salt and pepper. 4  Put the lobster tails in the frying pan and cover. 5  Cook the tails for eight minutes and serve in the melted butter [source: Food Network ]. Directions: 1  Thaw the lobster tails overnight. 2  The best way is to let them defrost in the refrigerator for eight to 10 hours. 3  Cut the top of the shell with a scissors, leaving the tail fan intact.
Directions: 1  Heat a frying pan. 2  Add the ½ cup water to the pan. 3  Rinse the lobster tails and open them on a butterfly form. 4  Sprinkle the tails with salt and pepper. 5  Put the lobster tails in the frying pan and cover. 6  Cook the tails for eight minutes and serve in the melted butter [source: Food Network ]. Directions: 1  Thaw the lobster tails overnight. 2  The best way is to let them defrost in the refrigerator for eight to 10 hours. 3  Cut the top of the shell with a scissors, leaving the tail fan intact.
Learn how to broil a lobster tail. Broiling a Lobster Tail is a method used to get the golden brown top that you often see on lobster tails served in restaurants. Many ovens at home may not be able to achieve this but if you can get it to work, the tail will look beautiful when it comes out of the oven. The lobser tail used in this demostration is a 5oz South African Lobster Tail. Start with a defrosted lobster tail and place on a cutting board. Set oven to a medium broil - 500 degrees. Begin with creating a lobster marinade.
1 Heat a frying pan. 2  Add the ½ cup water to the pan. 3  Rinse the lobster tails and open them on a butterfly form. 4  Sprinkle the tails with salt and pepper. 5  Put the lobster tails in the frying pan and cover. 6  Cook the tails for eight minutes and serve in the melted butter [source: Food Network ]. Directions: 1  Thaw the lobster tails overnight. 2  The best way is to let them defrost in the refrigerator for eight to 10 hours. 3  Cut the top of the shell with a scissors, leaving the tail fan intact.
Cooking Lobster Tails in the Oven Lobster tails can be baked or broiled in the oven. To cook thawed lobster in the oven,set the oven to 400 degrees F. Brush the tails with butter and bake for 8 to 10 minutes. If broiling, place the tails 4 or 5 inches from the heat and broil for 2 – 5 minutes. When broiling keep a very close eye on them so that they don’t burn on the tops. Cooking Lobster Tails On The Grill Oil the grill to keep the lobsters from sticking. Put the grill on medium heat
Here are instructions for broiling a lobster tail. The lobser tail used in this demostration is a 5oz South African Lobster Tail. Start with a defrosted lobster tail and place on a cutting board. Set oven to a medium broil - 500 degrees. Begin with creating a lobster marinade. This is a combination of a half stick of clarified butter, 1 tsp of lemon juice, a 1/4 tsp of white pepper, a 1/4 tsp of sea salt and a 1/4 tsp of garlic powder
Broil the lobster tails. Put the baking pan under the broil and cook the lobster tails for 10-12 minutes. The lobster tails are ready when the flesh is opaque in the middle and the butter has browned. Remove them from the oven. 1 If the flesh still looks a little translucent, the lobster tails aren't ready yet. 2  Broil them for another 2-3 minutes and check again. 3  Don't overcook the lobster-the meat could become a bit rubbery. 4  Be sure to check after 10-12 minutes to see if the lobster is done.