Email Us. All you need to do is: Climate San Pedro de Atacama Chile It is important to remember that San Pedro de Atacama is located in the heart of a dry desert and that it is at an altitude of 2, 443m as these factors influence the climate and local weather considerably. 
The Atacama Desert (Spanish: Desierto de Atacama) is a plateau in South America, covering a 1,000-kilometre (600 mi) strip of land on the Pacific coast, west of the Andes mountains. It is the driest non-polar desert in the world. According to estimates the Atacama Desert proper occupies 105,000 square kilometres (41,000 sq mi), or 128,000 square kilometres (49,000 sq mi) if the barren lower slopes of the Andes are included. Geological research suggests that in some sections of the Atacama Desert, such as in today's Chile, hyperaridity has persisted for the last 200 million years (since the Triassic). This desert is so arid, many mountains higher than 6,000 m (20,000 ft) are completely free of glaciers.
October 14, 2015; 4:13 PM ET. The same storm system that brought welcome rain and mountain snow to Chile will threaten places from central Argentina to southeastern Brazil with heavy rain and locally severe thunderstorms into Thursday. 
On March 25, 2015, heavy rainfall affected the southern part of the Atacama desert. Resulting floods triggered mudflows that affected the cities of Copiapo, Tierra Amarilla, Chile, Chanaral, and Diego de Almagro, causing the deaths of more than 100 people. Geological research suggests that in some sections of the Atacama Desert, such as in today's Chile, hyperaridity has persisted for the last 200 million years (since the Triassic). This desert is so arid, many mountains higher than 6,000 m (20,000 ft) are completely free of glaciers.
1 Its high-altitude location, up to 13,000 feet (4,000 meters), in northern Chile and southern Peru. 2  To the west of the Andes, the Atacama Desert is stuck between the Pacific Ocean to the west and the Andes Mountain Chain to the east. 3  Its lack of precipitation. An inch of rain represents multiple years worth of rain for the Atacama Desert. Areas this dry simply cannot handle a large amount of rain in a short period of time. The rock hard ground does not absorb the water. The lack of vegetation leads to rapid erosion and a massive generation of mud.
Flooding in Chile’s Atacama Desert after years’ worth of rain in one day. If you’ve ever heard about the Atacama Desert in South America, you likely remember at least one of the region’s unique features. 1  Its high-altitude location, up to 13,000 feet (4,000 meters), in northern Chile and southern Peru. 2  Its lack of precipitation. 3  Its favorable, cloud-free conditions for star gazing. 4  Its use as a Mars analog. An inch of rain represents multiple years worth of rain for the Atacama Desert. Areas this dry simply cannot handle a large amount of rain in a short period of time. The rock hard ground does not absorb the water. The lack of vegetation leads to rapid erosion and a massive generation of mud.
Weather. San Pedro de Atacama is an oasis located 2,443 meters (8,015 feet) above sea level, connected with the Calama airport (Chile) by a 100 kilometer road (62 miles).The climate is magnificent throughout the year, with more than 90% of the days being radiant. For 10 to 12 nights each month there is an astonishing moon, which impels you to a horseback ride through the spectacular landscapes. On other days, you can enjoy the darkness of the night with its fresh air and lack of clouds, which makes the stars shine as in no other place on earth.
The Atacama Desert is commonly known as the driest non-polar place in the world, especially the surroundings of the abandoned Yungay town (in Antofagasta Region, Chile). Geological research suggests that in some sections of the Atacama Desert, such as in today's Chile, hyperaridity has persisted for the last 200 million years (since the Triassic). This desert is so arid, many mountains higher than 6,000 m (20,000 ft) are completely free of glaciers.
In winter (June, July and August) the average daytime temperature is 22°C (72°F) and by night 4°C (39°F), descending to -2°C (28°F) in extreme cases; days are very pleasant, inviting you to lay in the sun's corridors. For 10 to 12 nights each month there is an astonishing moon, which impels you to a horseback ride through the spectacular landscapes. On other days, you can enjoy the darkness of the night with its fresh air and lack of clouds, which makes the stars shine as in no other place on earth.