Court judgments have been considered to be not a taxable supply, and hence no GST is payable. Often, plaintiffs to Court proceedings seek orders that the defendants indemnify the plaintiff for any GST payable, arising from the Court judgment. 1 Damages claim for loss of profits – no GST payable. 2  Legal costs – no GST payable if the party claiming legal costs is registered for GST. 3  A costs order is essentially the same as a payment of damages.
105. Where the only supply (other than a 'discontinuance' supply) in relation to a court order or out-of-court settlement is a current supply and a sufficient nexus exists between the payment and that supply, the payment will be consideration for the current supply. Flowerbox has based the amount of its claim on the cost of the flowers ($5,500) plus an amount of $6,500 that it asserts is equal to the loss of profits it would have made from the sale of the flowers. The court rules in favour of Flowerbox, but the total award is reduced to $9,900.
17. The GST consequences of a court order or out-of-court settlement will depend on a number of matters, including whether a payment made under the order or settlement constitutes consideration for a supply and, if so, whether the supply is in the nature of a taxable, input taxed F3, or GST-free supply F4. Flowerbox has based the amount of its claim on the cost of the flowers ($5,500) plus an amount of $6,500 that it asserts is equal to the loss of profits it would have made from the sale of the flowers. The court rules in favour of Flowerbox, but the total award is reduced to $9,900.
Notes. The Total Charge does not include GST for professional costs. Advertising Fees are also payable to the Sheriff upon seizure of goods (av. $50.00). Court Fee quoted on Victorian Warrants includes $17.90 filing fee. The above charges apply to Warrants/Writs issued against NSW or Victorian premises. - $44.90. Notes. The Total Charge does not include GST for professional costs. The Court Fees are shown for Corporations. The fee for individual plaintiffs is half of the amount shown.
(i) attribution of GST payable or input tax credit in the tax period the payment is made F64; or (ii) attribution of increasing or decreasing adjustments in respect of changes to the consideration for a supply F65; or (iii) no attribution or adjustment action required. Flowerbox has based the amount of its claim on the cost of the flowers ($5,500) plus an amount of $6,500 that it asserts is equal to the loss of profits it would have made from the sale of the flowers. The court rules in favour of Flowerbox, but the total award is reduced to $9,900.
Therefore no GST is payable on fees earned by an officer, because they are earned in relation to both employment and office. 17 Section 61, Trustees Act. Fasken Martineau DuMoulin LLP 5 Barristers and Solicitors Patent and Trade-mark Agents income for income tax purposes. 
(i) Retainer for the provision of legal services on an on-going basis Points to remember: 1  GST is payable only on services provided after 1 July 2000; 2  The costs agreement must enable the solicitor to charge GST in addition to the fees agreed. 
Click here for a table of the fees payable in the Federal Court after 1 July 2015 for filing, setting down, hearing, mediation, taxation of bills of costs and other services. Information about fees payable in the Federal Circuit Court after that date is available on the Federal Circuit Court's website. 
The dispute over payment is finally resolved by out-of-court settlement in November 2000. There is a sufficient nexus between the payment and the earlier supply. There will be no GST payable or input tax credit entitlement in respect of that supply as it was made prior to 1 July 2000. Flowerbox has based the amount of its claim on the cost of the flowers ($5,500) plus an amount of $6,500 that it asserts is equal to the loss of profits it would have made from the sale of the flowers. The court rules in favour of Flowerbox, but the total award is reduced to $9,900.