Western horse tack is designed to fit your work or pleasure riding needs. With an assortment of saddles and horse tack to choose from, you're sure to find the equipment that fits your personality, style, and riding discipline. No matter where you’re headed with your horse – into the show ring, out on the ranch, or out to the trails – having the right set of Western horse tack will make your job easier. The good news is that there are tons of items available for you to choose from; you’re sure to find the right tack for you and your horse.
A horse equipped with a saddle for mounted police. Saddles are seats for the rider, fastened to the horse's back by means of a girth (English-style riding), known as a cinch in the Western US, a wide strap that goes around the horse at a point about four inches behind the forelegs. Breastplates, breastcollars or breastgirths attach to the front of the saddle, cross the horse's chest, and usually have a strap that runs between the horse's front legs and attaches to the girth. They keep the saddle from sliding back or sideways.
Horse Tack. All the Western horse tack and equipment you need for barrel racing, roping, reining, show ring, and trail riding. Shop the widest selection of horse bits, saddles, saddle pads, horse boots, stirrups, halters and leads, headstalls, bell boots and more! The place to shop for all Cowboys and Cowgirls. Your favorite brands and styles at great prices with a 100% satisfaction guarantee.
Tack: Refers to the equipment of a riding horse-saddle, bridle, etc. Short for tackle.. War bridle: An emergency bridle made of rope. There is a wealth of jargon used throughout the horse world. This is especially true when discussing equine saddles, bits, bridles, and other tack supplies. Learning this vocubulary allows you to better understand articles, event language, and what trainers, farriers, veterinarians, and other horse owners are saying.
SEE ALL SALE. Welcome to HorseLoverz.com, where the search for horse tack and supplies at great prices comes to an end. Established in 2002, we have risen to be one of the top online shops for English and Western saddles, horseback riding accessories, equine health equipment and more. Our online shop provides tack and saddles for both Western and English riders; horse, pet and livestock feeding products; equine sheets, blankets and safety equipment; rider apparel and accessories; and every type of tool a stable owner could require.
• TACK (noun). The noun TACK has 6 senses: 1. the heading or position of a vessel relative to the trim of its sails. 2. a short nail with a sharp point and a large head. 3. gear for a horse. 4. (nautical) a line (rope or chain) that regulates the angle at which a sail is set in relation to the wind. 5.
Tack is a piece of equipment or accessory equipped on horses in the course of their use as domesticated animals. Saddles, stirrups, bridles, halters, reins, bits, harnesses, martingales, and breastplates are all forms of horse tack. Equipping a horse is often referred to as tacking up. Breastplates, breastcollars or breastgirths attach to the front of the saddle, cross the horse's chest, and usually have a strap that runs between the horse's front legs and attaches to the girth. They keep the saddle from sliding back or sideways.
Help give your stable of horses nothing but the very best with equine supplies from Horse.com. We carry everything you’ll need to care for your horses, including the tack and supplies to match your specific riding discipline. Equip yourself with an assortment of horse supplies and horse tack. Horse.com has the highest quality equine supplies you need at the lowest prices. Originally started in 1976 as the horse catalog company, known as Country Supply, Horse.com quickly became the largest online retailer of horse products and accessories.
Our staff of experienced riders tests, reviews and hand-selects the very best horse tack, and we work hard to offer the best price. With a wide array of english tack, you're sure to find everything you need to fill your tack trunk, be it bridles, bits, horse blankets, saddles, halters, saddle pads and beyond. Whether you're a dressage rider, eventer, hunter/jumper or just a casual rider, we have the tack you need
Visit our reading corner and learn about a variety of horse related topics, such as the different types of parasites that affect horses, measuring and fitting western saddles, or different types of horse supplements and their benefits. It’s easy to see why Horse.com is your source for everything equine. From riding to care, a life dedicated to equine takes commitment, passion, and the proper mindset. Equip yourself with an assortment of horse supplies and horse tack. Horse.com has the highest quality equine supplies you need at the lowest prices. Originally started in 1976 as the horse catalog company, known as Country Supply, Horse.com quickly became the largest online retailer of horse products and accessories.