Source: Oxygen is the most abundant element in the Earth’s crust, accounting for almost half of it by mass. More than half of the atoms in the Earth’s crust are oxygen atoms. About 86 percent of the mass of Earth’s oceans is oxygen – mainly in the form of water. Oxygen is the third most common element in the Universe, behind hydrogen and helium. It is obtained commercially from liquefied air separation plants. It can be prepared in the laboratory by electrolysis of water.
Oxygen is an important element that is needed by most life forms on Earth to survive. It is the third most abundant element in the universe and the most abundant element in the human body. Oxygen has 8 electrons and 8 protons. It is located at the top of column 16 in the periodic table. 
Oxygen accounts for about 23% of the atmosphere's mass with pairs of oxygen atoms stuck together to make dioxygen molecules, but it's not just in the air, we breathe. Overall, it's the most abundant element on the earth's surface and the third most abundant in the universe after hydrogen and helium. Our planet's rocks are about 46% oxygen by weight, much of it in the form of silicon dioxide, which we know most commonly as sand. When living things need energy they take in oxygen for respiration. The oxygen returns to the atmosphere in the form of carbon dioxide. Oxygen gas is fairly soluble in water, which makes aerobic life in rivers, lakes and oceans possible.
Oxygen is an element with the chemical symbol O and atomic number 8. Oxygen is a very reactive element that easily forms compounds such as oxides. Under standard temperature and pressure conditions two oxygen atoms join to form dioxygen (O 2), a colorless, tasteless and odorless gas. Oxygen is essential to human life, it is found in the air we breathe and the water we drink (H 2 0). Ozone (O 3) is an allotrope (different form) of oxygen that combines three oxygen atoms together. While ground level ozone is an air pollutant, the ozone layer in the Earth’s upper atmosphere provides protection from the suns harmful rays by filtering UV light.
Oxygen was discovered independently by Carl Wilhelm Scheele, in Uppsala, in 1773 or earlier, and Joseph Priestley in Wiltshire, in 1774, but Priestley is often given priority because his work was published first. Oxygen is toxic to obligately anaerobic organisms, which were the dominant form of early life on Earth until O 2 began to accumulate in the atmosphere about 2.5 billion years ago during the Great Oxygenation Event, about a billion years after the first appearance of these organisms.
Oxygen is the third most abundant chemical element in the universe, after hydrogen and helium. About 0.9% of the Sun 's mass is oxygen. Oxygen constitutes 49.2% of the Earth's crust by mass and is the major component of the world's oceans (88.8% by mass). Oxygen is toxic to obligately anaerobic organisms, which were the dominant form of early life on Earth until O 2 began to accumulate in the atmosphere about 2.5 billion years ago during the Great Oxygenation Event, about a billion years after the first appearance of these organisms.
Oxygen is a Group 16 element. While about one fifth of the atmosphere is oxygen gas, the atmosphere of Mars contains only about 0.15% oxygen. Oxygen is the third most abundant element found in the sun, and it plays a part in the carbon-nitrogen cycle, one process responsible for stellar energy production.
By mass, oxygen is the third-most abundant element in the universe, after hydrogen and helium. At standardized conditions for temperature and pressure, two atoms of the element bind to form dioxygen, a diatomic gas that is colorless, odorless, and tasteless, with the formula O 2. Oxygen is toxic to obligately anaerobic organisms, which were the dominant form of early life on Earth until O 2 began to accumulate in the atmosphere about 2.5 billion years ago during the Great Oxygenation Event, about a billion years after the first appearance of these organisms.
Oxygen is the most abundant element by mass in the Earth's crust as part of oxide compounds such as silicon dioxide, making up almost half of the crust's mass. Oxygen is an important part of the atmosphere, and is necessary to sustain most terrestrial life as it is used in respiration. Oxygen is toxic to obligately anaerobic organisms, which were the dominant form of early life on Earth until O 2 began to accumulate in the atmosphere about 2.5 billion years ago during the Great Oxygenation Event, about a billion years after the first appearance of these organisms.
The name oxygen was created by Antoine Lavoisier who incorrectly believed that oxygen was necessary to form all acids. Oxygen is the third most abundant element in the universe and makes up nearly 21% of the earth's atmosphere. 