Brown. Brown is the normal color of poop. There is a pigment called bilirubin that is formed when the red blood cells in the liver and bone marrow break down. This ends up (by a complicated process) in the intestines where bacteria begins to form and eat which turns the poop brown. 
1 Virtually all brownish-tan to medium shades of brown (color caused by bile during digestion) and even green (colored by green vegetables) are considered normal. 2  Very dark brown stool color indicate a potentially serious intestinal condition due to bleeding. Four Methods: Probably normal ~ Seek emergency care Worries Newborns, infants and toddlers. Colors of poop do indicate health -- versus a number of illnesses, suggesting specific, possible problems to get attention! Stop being puzzled by amorphous colors of bowel movements -- now colors can suggest warnings or not!
Color : “Bowel movements are generally brown in color because of bile, which is produced in the liver and important to the digestion process,” Aserkoff tells WebMD. The food you eat typically takes three days from the time you eat it until it finishes its journey in your toilet, Aserkoff says. Color can be a red flag when it’s a drastic change, Aserkoff says. “If stool is black, it can mean that you are bleeding internally, possibly as a result of an ulcer or cancer ,” he says. Stool that is black due to bleeding is also sticky (tarry) and smells bad.
1 Black stool may be from blackberries, blueberries, iron in red meat, spinach, iron supplements or Pepto-Bismol. 2  Other causes of black bowel movement. 3  Red stool may be from beets, artificial colors in drinks, sweets, or ice creams, red gelatin, tomato juice or soup. Color of a normal bowel movement in most people is any shade of brown, including light brown (described as yellow by some), but this is not the same as bright yellow) . The following stool colors may be also normal, if they result from ingested substances: 1  Green stool may result from ingesting a large amount of leafy vegetables, artificially-colored drinks, black licorice, iron or vitamin supplements
1 Other causes of green bovel movement. 2  Black stool may be from blackberries, blueberries, iron in red meat, spinach, iron supplements or Pepto-Bismol. 3  Other causes of black bowel movement. 4  Red stool may be from beets, artificial colors in drinks, sweets, or ice creams, red gelatin, tomato juice or soup. Color of a normal bowel movement in most people is any shade of brown, including light brown (described as yellow by some), but this is not the same as bright yellow) . The following stool colors may be also normal, if they result from ingested substances: 1  Green stool may result from ingesting a large amount of leafy vegetables, artificially-colored drinks, black licorice, iron or vitamin supplements
Stool (feces) color is most commonly brown. When stool color changes an person often becomes concerned. The presence of the bilirubin in the bile (a breakdown product of the hemoglobin in red blood cells that are normally destroyed after a useful life of several weeks) is generally responsible for stool color. 1 Changes in stool color may be due to diarrhea; bleeding in the intestine; diseases of the intestines, liver, or pancreas; and medications. 2  Diagnosis when stool color changes depends on what process is suspected of causing the change, for example, gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy if bleeding is supsected.
1 When not sure, blood in the stool has to be considered. 2  Orange stool may be from vitamin A, antacids, artificial colors, butter-fish, carrots, sweet potatoes, kale, spinach, turnip greens, winter squash, collard greens, cilantro, fresh thyme. 3  Other causes of orange bowel movement. Color of a normal bowel movement in most people is any shade of brown, including light brown (described as yellow by some), but this is not the same as bright yellow) . The following stool colors may be also normal, if they result from ingested substances: 1  Green stool may result from ingesting a large amount of leafy vegetables, artificially-colored drinks, black licorice, iron or vitamin supplements
Yesterday, my stool color was bright green. Stool comes in a range of colors. All shades of brown and even green are considered normal. Only rarely does stool color indicate a potentially serious intestinal condition. Stool color is generally influenced by what you eat as well as by the amount of bile — a yellow-green fluid that digests fats — in your stool. As bile pigments travel through your gastrointestinal tract, they are chemically altered by enzymes — changing the pigments from green to brown. 
Although slight changes in stool color may be temporary and considered normal, a stool color chart may help one detect any abnormal changes. Other imaging techniques to examine for tumors or other changes in the gastrointestinal tract include CT scan, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). 