Objective Theory of Contract. A principle in U.S. law that the existence of a contract is determined by the legal significance of the external acts of a party to a purported agreement, rather than by the actual intent of the parties. Some scholars maintain that the common law had long employed an objective test for recognizing a contract. Other scholars and writers claim that the widespread use of the objective theory of contracts in the courts was a much more recent phenomenon, perhaps developed during the late nineteenth century.
South African contract law is ‘essentially a modernised version of the Roman-Dutch law of contract ’, which is itself rooted in canon and Roman laws. In the broadest definition, a contract is an agreement two or more parties enter into with the serious intention of creating a legal obligation. 
Subjective theory of contract is a doctrine that a contract is an agreement in which the parties have a subjective meeting of the minds. 
Objective Theory of Contract Law & Legal Definition. Objective theory of contract is a doctrine which states that a contract is not an agreement in the sense of a subjective meeting of the minds. However, a contract is instead a series of external acts giving the objective semblance of agreement. This principle states that the existence of a contract is determined by the legal significance of the external acts of a party to a purported agreement, and not by the actual intent of the parties. American law had adopted the objective theory by the late nineteenth century
Objective Theory of Contract. A contract has, strictly speaking, nothing to do with the personal, or individual, intent of the parties. A contract is an obligation attached by the mere force of law to certain acts of the parties, usually words, which ordinarily accompany and represent a known intent. Some scholars maintain that the common law had long employed an objective test for recognizing a contract. Other scholars and writers claim that the widespread use of the objective theory of contracts in the courts was a much more recent phenomenon, perhaps developed during the late nineteenth century.
In law, a contract (or informally known as an agreement in some jurisdictions) is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more parties, each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them. A bilateral contract is an agreement in which each of the parties to the contract makes a promise or set of promises to each other. For example, in a contract for the sale of a home, the buyer promises to pay the seller $200,000 in exchange for the seller's promise to deliver title to the property.
Summary. In summary, mutual assent refers to two parties who agree upon something and are prepared to enter into a contract. To have mutual assent, an offeror makes an offer and an offeree accepts it. This is also called offer and acceptance, and is an important element when determining whether mutual assent is present. 
A contract is an agreement giving rise to obligations which are enforced or recognised by law. 2. In common law, there are 3 basic essentials to the creation of a contract: (i) agreement; (ii) contractual intention; and (iii) consideration. 3. The first requisite of a contract is that the parties should have reached agreement. Terms implied in law are terms imported by operation of law, whether the parties intended to include them or not. For example, in a contract for the sale of goods, it is an implied term that the goods will be of a certain quality and, if sold for a particular purpose, will be fit for that purpose. For certain contracts the law seeks to impose a standardised set of terms as a form of regulation