1. Check bank listings. Most banks run a searchable database of foreclosed, pre-auction homes. You can narrow your search by state and city or county to see a comprehensive listing of each property a given bank is selling. 1  Use an online search engine to find banks with foreclosure listings in your area. 2  Narrow your search by selecting the city or county you reside in
1 Once you've found your local records office, you can search for the property by the homeowner's name. 2  Some offices maintain their records in print form, while others have switched to digital archives. 3  Don't be afraid to ask the office clerk if you need assistance. You can narrow your search by state and city or county to see a comprehensive listing of each property a given bank is selling. 1  Use an online search engine to find banks with foreclosure listings in your area.
In a disclosure state, such as Washington, if your looking for a property that is in the foreclosure process the best way to find out is contacting a title company and requesting the notice of default lists. In a non-disclosure state such as Texas the only way you can find out if the home is in foreclosure is to go to the county court house and look on the lists of defaults and date of trustee sales.
As some states are known as disclosure state and others are known as non-disclosure states. In a non-disclosure state such as Texas the only way you can find out if the home is in foreclosure is to go to the county court house and look on the lists of defaults and date of trustee sales.
How to Find the Lien Holders on a Property.... 5. Cancel. Finding out if a house has been foreclosed is as simple as searching the local courthouse website for the deed, as deeds are public records that can be searched by property address or by the owner's name. And that is how I recommend that you go and take a look on your County Court House deeds of records, it is public information if you want to know if a particular house has ever been foreclosed on. Thank you, and I hope you have a good day.
==Answer== Generally you will be given notice by certified mail that a foreclosure action has been initiated. In most jurisdictions the notice will be published in your local newspaper for successive weeks and will include the date of the auction. Once the property has been sold at auction it is no longer your property. 
Instructions. Check with the county recorder or tax assessor&rsquo;s office. The clerk of court should be able to tell you if there is a foreclosure action on record for the owner(s) of the property you are interested in purchasing. Talk to a local real estate agent. Finding out if a house has been foreclosed is as simple as searching the local courthouse website for the deed, as deeds... 1  How to Find Out if a Home is in Foreclosure.
2. Check the public auction site in your county. Foreclosed homes are typically sold in a public auction located inside or in front of a government building, such as the county recorder's office. Call the county recorder's office to determine where the foreclosure auctions are held. Finding out whether a certain property is in foreclosure is relatively simple, often without leaving your desk chair. Foreclosure is the legal method by which a lender enforces payment of a mortgage when the borrower stops paying. Foreclosure actions can take up to four months to complete, depending on the area.