When you feel your pulse, count the number of beats in 15 seconds. Multiply this number by 4 to calculate your beats a minute. Keep in mind that many factors can influence heart rate, including: 1  Activity level.
Multiply that number by 6 to find out your heart-rate for one minute: Pulse in 10 seconds x 6 = ____ beats per minute (your heart-rate). When feeling your pulse, you can also tell if your heart rhythm is regular or not.
You can tell how fast your heart is beating (your heart rate) by feeling your pulse. Your heart-rate is the amount of times your heart beats in one minute. You will need a watch with a second hand.
How fast the heart beats depends on the body's need for oxygen-rich blood. At rest, the SA node causes your heart to beat about 50 to 100 times each minute. During activity or excitement, your body needs more oxygen-rich blood; the heart rate rises to well over 100 beats per minute.
When you feel your pulse, count the number of beats in 10 seconds. Time yourself with a timer or the second hand on a clock or watch. Multiply this number by 6 to determine how many times your heart beats in one minute.
How to measure your pulse and heart rate. Your pulse is your heart rate, or the number of times your heart beats in one minute. 2 Pulse rates vary from person to person. Your pulse is lower when you are at rest and increases when you exercise (more oxygen-rich blood is needed by the body when you exercise).
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 4
The average adult heart beat average is 70-75 beats per minute. Children have a higher rate in the 80's and 90's, depending on their age. The younger they are the faster the heart rate. Females, generally, have a slightly higher heart rate than males. Heart rate also depends on your age and what you're doing.
Resting heart rate, or pulse, refers to the number of times your heart beats per minute when you are at rest. Though a normal range is 50 to 100, most people’s hearts beat 60 to 80 times a minute. Above 100 is considered a rapid pulse, called tachycardia; an unusually slow resting heart rate is called bradycardia.