Your limited liability company's (LLC) articles of organization act as a charter to establish the existence of your LLC in your state, and set forth certain basic information about the new business. Articles of Organization: Filing and Fees. Once your new LLC's articles of organization are written and signed, they are ready for filing with your state's Secretary of State office (or similar state agency that handles business registration).
Forming an LLC. To create an LLC, you file articles of organization (in some states called a certificate of organization or certificate of formation) with the LLC division of your state government. This office is often in the same department as the corporations division, which is usually part of the secretary of state's office. However, unlike a corporation, which must pay its own taxes, an LLC is a pass-through tax entity: The profits and losses of the business pass through to its owners, who report them on their personal tax returns just as they would if they owned a partnership or sole proprietorship.
1 Limited liability company (LLC). 2  Another business type that is formed under state law and gives you personal liability protection is the LLC. 3  Tax-wise, an LLC is similar to an S corporation (or S corp), with business income and expenses reported on your personal tax return. Advantages & limitations. 1  For sole proprietorships and general partnerships, the advantage of filing a DBA is that it does not provide the same ongoing compliance requirements of incorporating or forming an LLC. 2  A DBA filing does not change the official name of the corporation or LLC.
To formalize your organization, first learn about and decide which business type is right for you: 1  C corporation. 2  S corporation. 3  Limited liability company (LLC). Advantages & limitations. 1  For sole proprietorships and general partnerships, the advantage of filing a DBA is that it does not provide the same ongoing compliance requirements of incorporating or forming an LLC. 2  A DBA filing does not change the official name of the corporation or LLC.
No matter the type or size of your new business, most states require that an LLC's articles of organization include, at a minimum, the following information: 1  Your new LLC's name and address (principal place of business). Articles of Organization: Filing and Fees. Once your new LLC's articles of organization are written and signed, they are ready for filing with your state's Secretary of State office (or similar state agency that handles business registration).
In all states, the filing of the articles of organization requires the payment of a corresponding filing fee, the specific amount of which varies depending upon the state of organization. Get Help Now. Writing and filing your new LLC's articles of organization is a key step on your business's path to success. To ensure that your new business complies with your state's legal requirements at all steps in the LLC formation process, you may wish to consult an experienced business attorney. Next Steps. Articles of Organization: Filing and Fees. Once your new LLC's articles of organization are written and signed, they are ready for filing with your state's Secretary of State office (or similar state agency that handles business registration).
Incorporate Now as a C Corp Learn More. Incorporate Now as an S Corp Learn More. Incorporate Now as an LLC Learn More. Whether you've purchased an existing business or want to start a new company, you must first decide which form of organization (or business entity) is best for you. There are several business types, and each has advantages and disadvantages. 
1 Another business type that is formed under state law and gives you personal liability protection is the LLC. 2  Tax-wise, an LLC is similar to an S corporation (or S corp), with business income and expenses reported on your personal tax return. 3  If you are the only owner of an LLC, you are viewed as a “disregarded” entity. Advantages & limitations. 1  For sole proprietorships and general partnerships, the advantage of filing a DBA is that it does not provide the same ongoing compliance requirements of incorporating or forming an LLC. 2  A DBA filing does not change the official name of the corporation or LLC.
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation. If there is only one member in the company, the LLC is treated as a “disregarded entity” for tax purposes, and an individual owner would report the LLC's income or loss on Schedule C of his or her individual tax return.