Actually, they cannot produce viable offspring does not mean that they are unable to mate. It means that their children are born sterile. For instance, a horse can mate with a donkey to produce a mule. A horse and donkey are not the same species and the mule is born sterile. Another example is a lion and tiger, they are not the same species either, but they can produce a liger. A cat and rabbit can mate but it is most often done artificially (by humans), and their offspring will b
Cats are prolific breeders and their offspring need to be speedily neutered or the population will quickly get out of control. In fact, one female cat can be responsible for a staggering 20,000 descendants in just five years!
Cats' reproduction activities may seem simple to the casual observer: they mate loudly, frequently, and indiscriminately; the female cat becomes pregnant, then gives birth to a bunch of kittens. The truth is not quite as clear-cut as that, however.
Inbreeding is the mating together of closely related dogs, for example mother/son, father/daughter and sibling/sibling matings. For breeders, it is a useful way of fixing traits in a breed—the pedigrees of some exhibition dogs show that many of their forebears are closely related.
Cats do not know that inbreeding is wrong. Their natural instinct is to mate with the opposite sex. It is not necessarily wise to inbreed ca … ts, as it can have an adverse effect on the offspring, such as health issues.
Some entire females will often go off their food when they are in heat, which happens several times a year. Entire males will roam the neighbourhood looking for a female to mate with. Both of these can cause cats to become underweight. When your cat has been desexed, it's mind is no longer on finding a partner.
Yes, mother cats do mate with their offspring. I had cat which had become so old that my family members used to call her grandmother cat. I had once seen her mating with her offspring and THEIR offspring at different times!
Inbreeding is the mating together of closely related cats, for example mother/son, father/daughter, sibling/sibling matings and half-sibling/half-sibling. It is the pairing of animals which are more closely related than the average population.