Moreover, the Oath defines commitments to justice, chastity, confidentiality, and accountability (Hulkower R. The history of the Hippocratic Oath: Outdated, inauthentic, and yet still relevant. The Einstein J of Biol and Med. 2010). The Hippocratic Oath has gone through several modifications to reflect major changes in modern society (Cruess R, Cruess S. Updating the Hippocratic Oath to include medicine’s social contract. Medical Education. 2014).
Today, most graduating medical-school students swear to some form of the oath, usually a modernized version. Indeed, oath-taking in recent decades has risen to near uniformity, with just 24 percent of U.S. medical schools administering the oath in 1928 to nearly 100 percent today. Here you'll find classical and modern versions of the oath as well as a brief article that offers a sense of the controversial nature of the oath today. Follow links at the bottom of the page to post your own comment or read those of others.
The Hippocratic Oath still represents a sacred covenant between the physician, the patient, the teacher, and the student. It is symbolic of the perseverance physicians have demonstrated over the centuries for the betterment of the patient and ultimately mankind. The Hippocratic Oath has gone through several modifications to reflect major changes in modern society (Cruess R, Cruess S. Updating the Hippocratic Oath to include medicine’s social contract. Medical Education. 2014).
Contrary to popular belief, the Hippocratic Oath is not required by most modern medical schools, although some have adopted modern versions that suit many in the profession in the 21 st century. It also does not explicitly contain the phrase, First, do no harm, which is commonly attributed to it. In fact, the creation of the Oath may have marked the early stages of medical training to those outside the first families of Hippocratic medicine, the Asclepiads of Kos, by requiring strict loyalty.
The Hippocratic Oath is one of the oldest binding documents in history. Here you'll find classical and modern versions of the oath as well as a brief article that offers a sense of the controversial nature of the oath today. Follow links at the bottom of the page to post your own comment or read those of others.
The Hippocratic Oath is an oath historically taken by physicians. It is one of the most widely known of Greek medical texts. In its original form, it requires a new physician to swear, by a number of healing gods, to uphold specific ethical standards. Of historic and traditional value, the oath is considered a rite of passage for practitioners of medicine in many countries, although nowadays various modernized versions are often used.
The Hippocratic Oath is one of the oldest binding documents in history. Written in antiquity, its principles are held sacred by doctors to this day: treat the sick to the best of one's ability, preserve patient privacy, teach the secrets of medicine to the next generation, and so on. Here you'll find classical and modern versions of the oath as well as a brief article that offers a sense of the controversial nature of the oath today. Follow links at the bottom of the page to post your own comment or read those of others.
August 14, 1991 | By Anthony Flint | Anthony Flint,Boston Globe. BOSTON -- The Hippocratic oath, uttered for decades by new doctors at medical school graduation rites, is nearing extinction because it is outdated and at odds with some modern medical practices.
The Hippocratic Oath (ορκος) is perhaps the most widely known of Greek medical texts. It requires a new physician to swear upon a number of healing gods that he will uphold a number of professional ethical standards. In fact, the creation of the Oath may have marked the early stages of medical training to those outside the first families of Hippocratic medicine, the Asclepiads of Kos, by requiring strict loyalty.