In order to qualify for Officer Candidate School as a member of the U.S. Army Reserve, you must be: 1  A college graduate with at least a four-year degree. 2  Must not have more than six years of Active Federal Service (AFS) upon arrial at OCS. The school is generally open to qualified enlisted Noncommissioned Officers, along with civilians who hold at least a four-year college degree. Candidates who successfully complete the rigorous, 12-week school receive formal commissions as U.S. Army Officers and assume the ability to command Soldiers.
Minimum Age. There is no minimum age specific to becoming an officer in the National Guard. You must, however, meet the minimum age requirement for enlisting in the National Guard in general, which is 17. Maximum Age. In general you must enlist in the National Guard before age 35, but there is a separate maximum age for becoming an officer. You must commission as an officer on or before your 42nd birthday. If you are just one day older than 42, then you can no longer become a National Guard officer
OFFICER CANDIDATE SCHOOL. Officer Candidate School (OCS) is the U.S. Army’s main training academy for prospective Army Officers. The school is generally open to qualified enlisted Noncommissioned Officers, along with civilians who hold at least a four-year college degree. Candidates who successfully complete the rigorous, 12-week school receive formal commissions as U.S. Army Officers and assume the ability to command Soldiers.
In order to qualify for Officer Candidate School as a civilian, you must be: 1  A U.S. citizen. 2  A college graduate with at least a four-year degree. 3  Between 19 and 32 years old (you must enter active duty or ship to training by your 33rd birthday and accept commission prior to age 34). The school is generally open to qualified enlisted Noncommissioned Officers, along with civilians who hold at least a four-year college degree. Candidates who successfully complete the rigorous, 12-week school receive formal commissions as U.S. Army Officers and assume the ability to command Soldiers.
Applicants who are 17 years old must have the consent of a parent or legal guardian before entering the military. To enter service in the Army, the maximum age is 41; for the Navy, 34; for the Marine Corps, 29; and for the Air Force and Coast Guard, 27. 
Reserve Officer Training Corps. In order to enroll in the Army's Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program while in college and earn a commission upon graduations, applicants must be at least 17 years of age. The age limits to become an officer generally vary depending on the commissioning source. For example, the age standards for applicants applying to the Untied States Military Academy (USMA) in Westpoint, N.Y., are subject to different minimums and maximums than those applying for Officer Candidate School (OCS).
How To Become a Naval Officer. A Navy officer must be able to assume a variety of duties at sea, in the air and ashore. Officers must be physically fit, at least 19 years old and U.S. citizens. You must have at least a bachelor's degree. You can apply for officer programs before earning your degree and as young as 17. The major fields of study required vary depending on the officer specialty. 
Commissioned officers generally enter the Military with a four-year college degree or greater, or receive officer training following tours of enlisted service. Officers are generally employed in management roles or highly specialized fields that require professional degrees (e.g., doctors, lawyers and chaplains). DCOs are required to attend Officer Indoctrination School (OIS), Officer Development School (ODS) or the Direct Commission Officer Indoctrination Course (DCOIC), depending on which Service they join. Regular age limits and requirements may be waived for some of these positions.
Army Reserve Officer Accession Programs. Prerequisites: Age: Minimum age is 18. Maximum age 41 years and 6 months at time of scheduled board. Presently there are no restrictions to the maximum age for which an applicant can submit a waiver request. Citizenship: All applicants must be a US citizen or have lawfully entered the United States for permanent residence.