Woodpecker Damage: Insect eating woodpeckers are less of a problem than sap eating woodpeckers. They tend to only feed and nest in dead wood and are generally considered harmless to a tree. Sapsuckers, on the other hand, attack living wood and often return to the tree to increase the size of the holes for fresh sap.
Tips for Repairing Woodpecker Damage. Before doing anything to repair woodpecker holes in trees, first examine the damage. Determine if there has, in fact, been damage to the tree and, if so, how bad it is. Remember, just because you see a woodpecker pecking on the tree does not mean that there will be damage.
Most woodpeckers feed on tree-living or wood-boring insects; however, some feed on a variety of other insects. Some flickers obtain the majority of their food by feeding on insects from the ground, especially ants. Others feed primarily on vegetable matter, such as native berries, fruit, nuts, and certain seeds.
Other reasons a woodpecker may be pecking on trees is to build nests, attract mates and even store food. Advertisement. In most cases, woodpecker damage to trees itself is not very harmful to the tree, but does create wounds that disease and insects can enter the tree. In extreme cases of woodpecker holes in trees, the tree trunk or branch may become girdled, which causes the area above the girdled bark to die.
How to Prevent Woodpecker Damage. The best way to stop woodpecker damage is to keep the woodpecker from getting to the tree in the first place. Bird netting is a popular way to keep woodpeckers from getting at trees but other methods, such as using sticky substances on the trunk, will also work.
The problem is not a big one if it is a tree – unless you want to protect that tree – but a very big one if woodpeckers are pecking on your wood house or the wood trim located on your home. There are 2 reasons they like to peck: to mark out the territory and in search of food.
Step 2. Encircle the trunk with a sheet of the bird netting, and leave 4 to 6 inches between the net and the bark so the birds can't reach through it to attack the tree. Attach it to a few branches with twine or wire and secure the bottom to the ground with stakes or pegs.