If they're given infant formula, it's homemade from cow's milk or from evaporated milk. Starting in 1929, during the year of the great stock market crash, soy formula also becomes available for babies allergic to cow' milk. 1938: A watershed in U.S. history, the 1938 Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act is enacted. Late 1800s: Commercially prepared infant formula in powdered form is born. Because it's expensive, however, many parents can't afford it. From now through the 1930s and the Great Depression, most infants are breastfed through their first year.
Some formulas are made from soy milk instead of cow's milk. If your baby seems to be allergic to formula made from cow's milk, your doctor may suggest using a soy-milk formula. If you’re not breastfeeding, use infant formula during the first year of your baby’s life. Regular cow's milk and regular soy milk are not the same as infant formula made from cow's milk or from soy
Manufacturers state that the composition of infant formula is designed to be roughly based on a human mother's milk at approximately one to three months postpartum; however, there are significant differences in the nutrient content of these products. Follow-on or toddler formulas are sold for ages 6 months to 2 years, (when infants are typically breastfed) and are not nutritionally complete nor subject to the same regulations as infant formula.
When was the first baby formula invented? in 1869 by Justus Von Leibig, this was a simple formula of potassium bicarbonate, wheat and malt flour and was mixed with warm cows milk. Swiss chemist Henri Nestle created th … e first complete formula (no addition of cows milk, just water) in 1870. 
Infant formula is a manufactured food designed and marketed for feeding to babies and infants under 12 months of age, usually prepared for bottle-feeding or cup-feeding from powder (mixed with water) or liquid (with or without additional water). Follow-on or toddler formulas are sold for ages 6 months to 2 years, (when infants are typically breastfed) and are not nutritionally complete nor subject to the same regulations as infant formula.
Food historians generally agree that manufactured baby food, as we know it today, was a byproduct of the European Industrial Revolution. The first mass-produced baby foods were invented by scientists/nutrition experts and manufactured in the mid-19th century by innovative companies. These were infant formulas, substitutes for mother's milk. At that time, tainted milk was often connected with infant mortality. About Justus von Liebig. [1867] NESTLE'S MILK FOOD/SWITZERLAND (powdered). In 1867, the Swiss merchjant Henri Nestle invented the first artificial infant food, and in 1873, 500,000 boxes of Nestle's Milk Food were sold in the United States as well as in Europe, Argentina, and the Dutch East Indies.
Liquid concentrate infant formula is the predominant form of infant formula sold for the next 20 years. Still, in the early 1950s, most infants are breastfed until six months then switched to cow's milk because it's less expensive than formula. 1958: Breastfeeding is out of favor. Late 1800s: Commercially prepared infant formula in powdered form is born. Because it's expensive, however, many parents can't afford it. From now through the 1930s and the Great Depression, most infants are breastfed through their first year.
The U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) defines infant formula as a food which purports to be or is represented for special dietary use solely as a food for infants by reason of its simulation of human milk or its suitability as a complete or partial substitute for human milk. Follow-on or toddler formulas are sold for ages 6 months to 2 years, (when infants are typically breastfed) and are not nutritionally complete nor subject to the same regulations as infant formula.
An upswing in breastfeeding in many countries has been accompanied by a deferment in the average age of introduction of baby foods (including cow's milk), resulting in both increased breastfeeding and increased use of infant formula between the ages of 3- and 12-months. Follow-on or toddler formulas are sold for ages 6 months to 2 years, (when infants are typically breastfed) and are not nutritionally complete nor subject to the same regulations as infant formula.