Michael Martin Murphey was born on March 14, 1945 in the Oak Cliff section of Dallas, Texas, the son of Pink and Lois (Corbett) Murphey. He grew up in Dallas, Texas. Murphey wrote the song Carolina in the Pines for his second wife, Caroline Hogue, whom he married in 1974. They were divorced in 1978. Murphey met his third wife, New York model Mary Maciukas, in May 1978 at the Bottom Line in New York City.
Reply. Says: Im a sixteen year-old guy who just recently discovered this song. and i was so touched the first time, it really is a masterpiece unlike what many of you believe. just imagine being a man who lost the girl of his dreams in that manner only to hope one day she and her horse will come for him. You are an idiot! The song is not about a dead horse and a dead girl, ti is about a man who has lost the woman he loves years ago when she when to look for her lost horse. Now the man is at deaths door and he is thrilled that he will see the woman he loves once again.
Wildfire is a classic song written by Michael Martin Murphey and Larry Cansler. It was originally recorded by Murphey, who had yet to add his middle name to his recorded work, and appears on his gold-plus 1975 album Blue Sky – Night Thunder.
Michael Martin Murphey talked to The Boot about his biggest hit. I was working on a concept album called ‘The Ballad of Calico’ for Kenny Rogers with my friend Larry Cansler. I was in my third year of college at UCLA, but I was living in the mountains in California. I would drive down to Larry’s apartment in Los Angeles and sleep on his floor, because we would work sometimes 22 hours a day on the album.
He has recorded the hit singles  Wildfire ,  Carolina in the Pines ,  What's Forever For ,  A Long Line of Love ,  What She Wants , and  Don't Count the Rainy Days . Murphey is also the author of New Mexico 's state ballad, The Land of Enchantment. Murphey wrote the song Carolina in the Pines for his second wife, Caroline Hogue, whom he married in 1974. They were divorced in 1978. Murphey met his third wife, New York model Mary Maciukas, in May 1978 at the Bottom Line in New York City.
Michael Martin Murphey's Wildfire was one of the biggest songs of the '70s, and remains his signature tune. Despite its popularity, Murphey says Wildfire remains something of a puzzle to listeners — and to him as well. (SOUNDBITE OF SONG WILDFIRE). LYNN NEARY, Host: 
The band who wrote the song Who Are You is The Who. They are also known for the song Won't get Fooled Again and many other classics such as My Generation. Another song c … alled Who Are You was written and recorded by Black Sabbath, but it's a pretty obscure track. 9 people found this useful.
When Murphey rerecorded Wildfire for a new album in 1997, he was quoted by Billboard as saying that what many consider his signature song broke my career wide open and, on some level, still keeps it fresh. Because that song appeals to kids, and always has, it's kept my career fresh.. It was originally recorded by Murphey, who had yet to add his middle name to his recorded work, and appears on his gold-plus 1975 album Blue Sky – Night Thunder.
In 1971, Murphey was signed to A&M Records by Bob Johnston, who discovered him in a Dallas club, the Rubiayat. Johnston had produced some of the country's most popular recording artists, including Bob Dylan, Johnny Cash, and Simon and Garfunkel. Murphey wrote the song Carolina in the Pines for his second wife, Caroline Hogue, whom he married in 1974. They were divorced in 1978. Murphey met his third wife, New York model Mary Maciukas, in May 1978 at the Bottom Line in New York City.
I think you're fortunate because you can say, 'I'm the guy who wrote Wildfire' and immediately people know the song. A song sticks in the brain a lot more easily that a name does.. As signature songs go, Murphey says that Wildfire, which was written after a dream he had, is golden. I don't mind (it) being the main one, he says. I feel blessed that I still like to sing it