An arthropod is an invertebrate (meaning it lacks a backbone) with an external skeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods belong to the Phylum Arthropoda. Insects, arachnids, centipedes and crustaceans are all arthropods. The term 'arthropod' comes from the Greek arthro [arthron] (joint)  and pod [pous, podos] (meaning foot or leg) hence, the jointed  appendages characterization of the phylum … .
An arthropod (from Greek arthro- , joint + podos, foot) is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton (external skeleton), a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods form the phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, myriapods, and crustaceans. 1 Myriapods comprise millipedes, centipedes, and their relatives and have many body segments, each bearing one or two pairs of legs. 2  They are sometimes grouped with the hexapods. 3  Crustaceans are primarily aquatic (a notable exception being woodlice) and are characterised by having biramous
The word arthropod is a combination of two Greek words-arthro meaning jointed and pod meaning foot. All arthropods have jointed legs, claws, and body segments! Arthropods have segmented bodies. Each body segment usually has a pair of appendages. 
: any of a phylum (Arthropoda) of invertebrate animals (as insects, arachnids, and crustaceans) that have a segmented body and jointed appendages, a usually chitinous exoskeleton molted at intervals, and a dorsal anterior brain connected to a ventral chain of ganglia. — arthropod adjective. Definition of ARTHROPOD for Kids. : any of a large group of animals (as crabs, insects, and spiders) with jointed limbs and a body made up of segments.
Insects, arachnids, centipedes and crustaceans are all arthropods.   An arthropod is an invertabrate animal that has an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages.    An ANTHROPOD is a bipedal humanoid (ie Homo Sapien, Homo Neanderthalus, Homo Habilus, Australopithicene Afarensis, and other hominids). The term 'arthropod' comes from the Greek arthro [arthron] (joint)  and pod [pous, podos] (meaning foot or leg) hence, the jointed  appendages characterization of the phylum … . 4 people found this useful.
• ARTHROPOD (noun). The noun ARTHROPOD has 1 sense: 1. invertebrate having jointed limbs and a segmented body with an exoskeleton made of chitin. Familiarity information: ARTHROPOD used as a noun is very rare. Invertebrate having jointed limbs and a segmented body with an exoskeleton made of chitin. Classified under: Nouns denoting animals. Hypernyms (arthropod is a kind of...): invertebrate (any animal lacking a backbone or notochord; the term is not used as a scientific classification). Meronyms (parts of arthropod): sclerite (hard plate or element of the exoskeleton of some arthropods)
An arthropod is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods are members of the phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, and crustaceans. 
The arthropod body plan consists of segments, each with a pair of appendages. The rigid cuticle inhibits growth, so arthropods replace it periodically by moulting. Their versatility has enabled them to become the most species-rich members of all ecological guilds in most environments. 1 Myriapods comprise millipedes, centipedes, and their relatives and have many body segments, each bearing one or two pairs of legs. 2  They are sometimes grouped with the hexapods. 3  Crustaceans are primarily aquatic (a notable exception being woodlice) and are characterised by having biramous
An arthropod is an invertebrate (meaning it lacks a backbone) with an external skeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods belong to the Phylum Arthropoda. The term 'arthropod' comes from the Greek arthro [arthron] (joint)  and pod [pous, podos] (meaning foot or leg) hence, the jointed  appendages characterization of the phylum … . 4 people found this useful.