Do you mean 'Which electromagnetic wave in the electromagnetic spectrum causes sunburn? The answer is Ultraviolet (UV), which is what is used in sunbeds and therefore damages and colours your skin cells. Electromagnetic waves have an associated frequency and wavelength. They are related by c = λν, where c is the speed of light, λ is the wavelength, and ν is the frequency. … All electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light. A change in frequency results in a change in wavelength (as required by the given equation).
Skin layers and melanin. Sunburns are caused by exposure to too much ultraviolet (UV) light. UV radiation is a wavelength of sunlight in a range too short for the human eye to see. Ultraviolet A (UVA) and ultraviolet B (UVB) are the two types of solar radiation most responsible for sunburn. Sunlamps and tanning beds also produce UV light and can cause sunburn. Melanin is the dark pigment in the outer layer of skin (epidermis) that gives your skin its normal color.
Confidence votes 77.5K. In general, it is ultraviolet light (the UV ray) that causes sunburn. Ultraviolet light is of a higher frequency than visible light, which means shorter wavelength, and higher energy. UV rays tend to do some tissue damage and burn skin causing sunburn.
UV Forecast. The sun gives out energy over a broad spectrum of wavelengths. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation, which has a shorter wavelength than either visible blue or violet light, is responsible for sunburn and other adverse health effects. Fortunately for life on earth, stratospheric ozone screens most harmful UV radiation.
UVB tends to cause damage in more superficial epidermal layers. UVB is the middle-range of UV with wavelengths between 290-320 nm. It responsible for burning, tanning, acceleration of skin aging and plays a very key role in the development of skin cancer. The intensity of UVB varies by season, location and time of day. 
It is the least explored of the three regions. Our Sun emits light at all the different wavelengths in electromagnetic spectrum, but it is ultraviolet waves that are responsible for causing our sunburns. To the left is an image of the Sun taken at an Extreme Ultraviolet wavelength - 171 Angstroms to be exact. 
Definition of UVB. : radiation that is in the region of the ultraviolet spectrum which extends from about 280 to 320 nm in wavelength and that is primarily responsible for sunburn, aging of the skin, and the development of skin cancer. ADVERTISEMENT. UVB. noun \-ˈbē\. : radiation that is in the region of the ultraviolet spectrum which extends from 280 to 320 nm in wavelength and that is primarily responsible for sunburn, aging of the skin, and the development of skin cancer.
The ultraviolet (UV) rays that cause sunburns come in two forms. UV-A and UV-B. These rays, like all electromagnetic radiation, come in waves at specific frequencies. UV-A has wavelengths between 315-400 nanometers. UV-B wavelengths are between 280-315 nanometers.