Chemotherapy is a treatment for pancreatic cancer that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells. It does this by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Doctors may also use chemotherapy to help reduce pain and other problems caused by pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer chemotherapy affects rapidly dividing cells throughout the body, including blood cells. Blood cells fight infection, help the blood to clot, and carry oxygen to all parts of the body.
Chemo may be used at any stage of pancreatic cancer: 1  Chemo can be given before surgery (sometimes along with radiation) to try to shrink the tumor. 2  This is known as neoadjuvant treatment. Possible side effects. Chemo drugs attack cells that are dividing quickly, which is why they work against cancer cells. But other cells in the body, such as those in the bone marrow (where new blood cells are made), the lining of the mouth and intestines, and the hair follicles, also divide quickly.
May 9, 2005 -- A mix of chemotherapy drugs could be considered for treating advanced pancreatic cancer, pancreatic cancer, say Italian doctors in The Lancet Oncology 's online edition. Pancreatic cancer has a poor prognosis. 
Chemotherapy uses anti cancer (or cytotoxic) drugs to destroy cancer cells. You may have chemotherapy after pancreatic surgery. If the cancer was totally removed, the chemotherapy can lower the risk of cancer coming back. FOLFIRINOX combination chemotherapy. For advanced pancreatic cancer, doctors may use a combination of the chemotherapy drugs fluorouracil, irinotecan and oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX). You have these drugs every 2 weeks through a drip into a vein.
Chemotherapy (chemo) uses anti-cancer drugs injected into a vein or taken by mouth. These drugs enter the bloodstream and reach all areas of the body, making this treatment potentially useful for cancers that have spread beyond the organ they started in. Possible side effects. Chemo drugs attack cells that are dividing quickly, which is why they work against cancer cells. But other cells in the body, such as those in the bone marrow (where new blood cells are made), the lining of the mouth and intestines, and the hair follicles, also divide quickly.
If you have advanced pancreatic cancer, your doctor may suggest chemotherapy. The chemotherapy won't cure the cancer but it might shrink your cancer and so help to relieve some of the symptoms. It may help to slow down the growth of the cancer for a while. But chemotherapy doesn't help everyone with pancreatic cancer. FOLFIRINOX combination chemotherapy. For advanced pancreatic cancer, doctors may use a combination of the chemotherapy drugs fluorouracil, irinotecan and oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX). You have these drugs every 2 weeks through a drip into a vein.
Although pancreatic cancer has been classed as a tumour that is largely resistant to chemotherapy, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and 5-FU-based combination regimens have been shown to be superior to observation alone or no treatment arms in adjuvant trials, and to best supportive care in palliative therapy trials (Table 1). Pancreatic cancer is a common, highly lethal disease that is rising in incidence. Chemotherapy based on 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) has been shown to prolong survival in advanced pancreatic cancer. Gemcitabine improves major symptoms and survival outcomes compared with bolus 5-FU.
Chemotherapy| is the use of anti-cancer (cytotoxic) drugs to destroy cancer cells. It is one of the most commonly used treatments for pancreatic cancer. Chemotherapy is the use of anti-cancer (cytotoxic) drugs to destroy cancer cells. It is one of the most commonly used treatments for pancreatic cancer. It may be given: 1  after surgery to reduce the chance of the cancer coming back-this is known as adjuvant chemotherapy. Chemotherapy for advanced pancreatic cancer Back to top. Gemcitabine is the most commonly used treatment. Sometimes a combination of three chemotherapy drugs called FOLFIRINOX may be given. It’s made up of folinic acid (leucovorin) and the chemotherapy drugs fluorouracil (5FU), irinotecan and oxaliplatin.
If pancreatic cancer chemotherapy is part of your personal treatment plan, your medical oncologist will use a combination of chemotherapy medications customized to your individual needs. Chemotherapy may be used alone, or in combination with other pancreatic cancer treatments like radiation therapy or surgery. For pancreatic cancer, chemotherapy is often given concurrently with radiation therapy, called chemoradiation. 