A roux-based sauce. Roux /ˈruː/ (also rue) is flour and fat cooked together and used as to thicken sauces. The fat is butter in French cuisine, but may be lard or vegetable oil in other cuisines. A roux is used in three of the mother sauces of classical French cooking: bechamel béchamel, sauce veloute, velouté sauce and. espagnole sauce Dark roux is often made with vegetable oils, which have a higher smoke point than butter, and are used in Cajun and Creole cuisine for gumbos and stews. The darker the roux, the less thickening power it has; a chocolate roux has about one-fourth the thickening power, by weight, of a white roux.
A Roux (pronounced roo) is browned in a mixture of white wheat flour and a cooking fat (oil or animal fat) that is used to thicken sauces, stews, and gravies. Roux serves as the base for most gumbo recipes where a rich, deep, hearty flavor, and texture is desired. 
Roux is made by stirring the flour into the melted butter and then cooking it for a few minutes so that the floury taste cooks off. Then, the roux can be used or cooked further to develop more color and a toasty flavor. Roux can also be made with other fats such as lard, bacon fat or simple vegetable oil. Roux (pronounced roo) is a mixture of equal parts (by weight) fat and flour that is used for thickening sauces and soups. Clarified butter is the type of fat most frequently used. [ Also see: Thickening a Sauce with Roux ]. Note that equal parts by weight does not necessarily mean equal parts by volume
In cooking, a roux is a foundation for a sauce (notably brown or darker sauces). It begins as a heated mixture of fat and flour, the fat consisting of lard, meat fats, bacon g … rease, vegetable shortening, or butter. Answer by Wyzace. Confidence votes 60. A roux is a sauce made by melting butter, then adding flour or cornstarch, which is stirred in over heat and a liquid then whisked in to thicken. Usually flavoring is added to the flour (dry granules,and /or spices) or the liquid could be the source of the flavor.
A thickening agent made from fat mixed with flour that is cooked together to be used to stiffen the texture of sauces, gravies, and soups. All-purpose flour is most commonly used for making a Roux. It has moderate levels of starch and protein, so the thickening power is also moderate. The more starch content in the flour, the thicker the Roux as flour is the key ingredient that determines the thickness of the texture. As the flour combines with the fat and is heated the starch expands, thus creating the thickness in texture. The longest cooking time is used for making the brown Roux, most often used for the preparation of Cajun and Creole food dishes. The brown Roux requires 8 to 16 minutes (or longer at times) for heating and cooking the mixture, enabling it to become brown in color with a more intense nut-like aroma.
A Roux is a mixture of 50% butter, 50% flour that is used as a starch thickener for a number of mother sauces (notably Bechamel, Béchamel, Espagnole). Veloute velouté for a white, sauce base you may heat both butter and flour together in a saucepan over a low flame while combining with a. wooden spatula a roux is normally used for thickening sauces (usually cream/cheese type sauces). the benefits of using a roux, are that your sauces will not get lumpy. Try just adding flour directly to the sauce next time.
The fat is butter in French cuisine, but may be lard or vegetable oil in other cuisines. A roux is used in three of the mother sauces of classical French cooking: bechamel béchamel, sauce veloute, velouté sauce and. Espagnole sauce, clarified butter, vegetable oils bacon drippings or lard are commonly. used fats Dark roux is often made with vegetable oils, which have a higher smoke point than butter, and are used in Cajun and Creole cuisine for gumbos and stews. The darker the roux, the less thickening power it has; a chocolate roux has about one-fourth the thickening power, by weight, of a white roux.
It's actually spelled 'roux', and is a mixture of oil and flour, cooked to remove the starchy taste of the flour. It's a great thickener any time that you don't need the sauce to be clear, and you have time to cook it down. a roux is normally used for thickening sauces (usually cream/cheese type sauces). the benefits of using a roux, are that your sauces will not get lumpy. Try just adding flour directly to the sauce next time.