Each ureter enters the bladder through a tunnel in the bladder wall, which is angled to prevent the urine from running back into the ureter when the bladder contracts. A ureter is one of two uterine tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Each ureter is about ten to twelve inches long. Urine flows down partly by gravity, but mainly by waves of contractions, which pass several times per minute through the muscle layers of the urethral walls. 
The ureters are narrow, hollow, muscular tubes, approximately nine inches long, that connect the kidneys to the bladder. Each kidney has its own ureter through which urine passes. Urine does not flow in a slow, steady stream along the length of the ureters into the bladder. 
Best Answer: Ureters are the connecting tube of the kidney and the urinary bladder. The urine originating from the kidney goes through the ureter to reach the urinary bladder. Urinary Bladder is the temporary storage organ of the urine before it goes through the urethra. The urinary bladder will be distended when it is full and forced to be excreted through the urethra. It mean that it can't hold on anymore. Urethra is also a tube, but it is a tube from the urinary bladder to the outside.
(Click an organ above to see its description.). Urethra. Function In females, the urethra is a tube that conveys urine from the urinary bladder to the outside of the body. In males, the urethra also functions as a urinary canal and as a passageway for cells and secretions from various reproductive organs. 
Ureter. The ureter is a tube that carries urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder. There are two ureters, one attached to each kidney. The upper half of the ureter is located in the abdomen and the lower half is located in the pelvic area. The ureter is about 10 to 12 inches long in the average adult. 
The urethra is the tube through which urine is excreted from the urinary bladder to outside the body in both males and females. Urine flows from the bladder out of the body by … way of the urethra when the sphincter muscle is relaxed. In both men and women, the urethra is the tube through which urine is excreted from the urinary bladder to outside the body. Urine flows from the bladder out of the body by wa … 
The ureters are the tubes that drain the urine from the kidneys into the bla … dder. Once the urine is in the bladder, it must pass through the urethra, which is a single tube running from the base of the urinary bladder to the outside of the body for elimination. In both men and women, the urethra is the tube through which urine is excreted from the urinary bladder to outside the body. Urine flows from the bladder out of the body by wa … y of the urethra when the sphincter muscle is relaxed.
Ureter function and definition. Ureter, in a human organism, is a muscular tube, fairly thick and rigid, that leads URINE from the kidney to the urinary BLADDER. Both of the two tubular structures arise from the renal pelvis and collect the urine from the kidney’s collecting tubules. 
In humans, the urethra carries urine (from the bladder) out of the body, and in males it also carries semen from the testes through the penis (for sexual ejaculation). In both men and women, the urethra is the tube through which urine is excreted from the urinary bladder to outside the body. Urine flows from the bladder out of the body by wa … y of the urethra when the sphincter muscle is relaxed.
URETERS: Function: It is the tube that carries urine from kidney to the bladder. Structure: It orignates from the base of the kidney and terminates in the base of the bladder … . Each kidney has one ureter measuriing from 28 to 34 cm long, the right one is slightly shorter than the left. The ureter is the tube that connects each kidney to the bladder. The kidneys clean the blood and filter waste from it. This process produces a liquid waste, urine. Urine flows … from the kidneys through the ureters to the bladder. The urine is stored in the bladder until a person urinates.