This was the birth of the Middelburg Chamber of Commerce and Industry. From this small beginning of a handful of members the Chamber mushroomed to a business association with a membership of some 300 businesses. The Business Linkage Centre was established in an endeavour to bridge the gap between corporate business and the small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) which did not have access to tenders or the knowledge on how to submit tenders.
Middelburg is a large farming and industrial town in the South African province of Mpumalanga. Various bazaars and markets are being held by all churches in support of the community. Examples would be The Expo Art and craft market, which is held annually in the spring by Die Lighuis Gemeente. Corpus Christi also have a world class market which is widely known in the area as the Kersmark.
Mission: As the leading Middelburg business organization we strive to unite the majority of business to beneficially influence our environment by encouraging members to active commitment, innovation and professional service for the protection and advancement of business in Middelburg.. The Business Linkage Centre was established in an endeavour to bridge the gap between corporate business and the small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) which did not have access to tenders or the knowledge on how to submit tenders.
Middelburg Industry. Find all Industry related services in Middelburg-from manufacturing to distribution and suppliers, services and contractors to all industries and industry sectors in Middelburg. 
Offerings include apprenticeships, learnerships, assessments, skills programmes and specialist courses in a wide range of disciplines. This includes mechanical, electrical, welding, and hydraulics, as well as control and instrumentation. We deal with Air, Water and Soil Pollution by means of developing suitable and effective monitoring programmes, including air pollutant dispersion modelling, stack emission sampling, dust fall-out and PM10 monitoring, as well as environmental noise assessments, water quality and soil pollution monitoring.
Middelburg was established as Nasareth, (root from dry land) , in 1864 by the Voortrekkers on the banks of the Klein Olifants River. Various bazaars and markets are being held by all churches in support of the community. Examples would be The Expo Art and craft market, which is held annually in the spring by Die Lighuis Gemeente. Corpus Christi also have a world class market which is widely known in the area as the Kersmark.
The name was changed in 1872 to Middelburg to mark its location between the Transvaal capital Pretoria, and the gold mining town of Lydenburg. A Dutch Reformed Church was built in 1890 and became a focal point in the area. Various bazaars and markets are being held by all churches in support of the community. Examples would be The Expo Art and craft market, which is held annually in the spring by Die Lighuis Gemeente. Corpus Christi also have a world class market which is widely known in the area as the Kersmark.
Trackless experience essential. •Government Certificate of Competence: Mines and Works (GCC) obtained before 2009. •National Diploma or Degree in Mining Engineering (or equivalent) •Minimum of 5 years’ engineering and production experience as underground Section Engineer within an underground mining e ... Suitable candidates will be in possession of a Degree / Diploma in Mechanical / Electrical Engineering with a GCC (Mines and Works). Candidates must have a minimum of 10 years operational experience with a minimum of four years at managerial level. Experience on tr ...
Candidates are required to be in possession of a Diploma / Degree in Mechanical / Electrical Engineering as well as a Government Certificate of Competence (Mines and Works). Candidates must have a minimum of 7 years’ experience in a coal mining environment, speciali ... Suitable candidates will be in possession of a Degree / Diploma in Mechanical / Electrical Engineering with a GCC (Mines and Works). Candidates must have a minimum of 10 years operational experience with a minimum of four years at managerial level. Experience on tr ...