noun. (Especially in Africa) a mineral mined in an area of armed conflict and traded illicitly to finance the fighting: coltan has been termed a conflict mineral, along with cassiterite, wolframite, and gold. More example sentences.
The Office of Threat Finance Countermeasures, in conjunction with other State Department bureaus and U.S. agencies, actively works to end the use of certain “conflict” minerals to fund violent armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) through government-to-government diplomatic efforts. 
Conflict Free, the facilities used to process the necessary conflict minerals in those products, the. country of origin of the minerals and the effort to determine the mine or location of origin of. those minerals with the greatest possible specificity. What and where are conflict minerals? Dodd–Frank Section 1502 defines “conflict minerals” as cassiterite, columbite-tantalite, gold and wolframite, as well as their derivatives and other minerals that the US Secretary of State may designate in the future.
DEFINITION. The minerals TIN, TANTALUM, TUNGSTEN and GOLD (also referred to as “3TG”) are considered “conflict minerals” because they are often mined in conditions of armed conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and surrounding countries. 
The three T’s of conflict minerals — Tin, Tantalum, and Tungsten — generate more than $130 million in profit for armed rebel groups in Congo.Via http ://www.divinecaroline.com/22353/90560-ten-things-know-conflict-minerals/2. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of conflict mineral from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
On August 22, 2012, the SEC issued a final rule on conflict minerals pursuant to Dodd-Frank Section 1502. The rule describes the assessment and reporting requirements for issuers whose products contain conflict minerals. These minerals – tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold – are used in a wide range of products across numerous industries. 
Conflict resources are natural resources extracted in a conflict zone and sold to perpetuate the fighting. There is both anecdotal and statistical evidence that belligerent accessibility to precious commodities can prolong conflicts (a  resource curse ). The concept of 'conflict resource', or 'conflict commodity ' emerged in the late 1990s, initially in relation to ' conflict diamonds ' financing rebellions in Angola and Sierra Leone.
1 In addition, the EU takes a broader definition of the term “conflict minerals” than only defined as minerals that are traded with the revenues supporting armed groups to finance their war. 2  See examples in reports from Colombia, Venezuela, and Indonesia. 1 OECD due diligence: Instead of simply categorizing minerals as conflict-related or conflict-free, OECD due diligence provides a framework for industry players to disclose information and address issues related to sourcing decisions. 2  In other words, the process is prioritized over the results.
2. Conflict minerals, as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is a broad term that means tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold, regardless of whether these minerals finance conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. 
The most commonly mined conflict minerals are cassiterite (for tin), wolframite (for tungsten), coltan (for tantalum), and gold ore, which are extracted from the Eastern Congo, and passed through a variety of intermediaries before being purchased by multinational electronics companies. The concept of 'conflict resource', or 'conflict commodity ' emerged in the late 1990s, initially in relation to ' conflict diamonds ' financing rebellions in Angola and Sierra Leone.