Full Definition of ETHEREAL. 1. a: of or relating to the regions beyond the earth b: celestial, heavenly c: unworldly, spiritual. 2. a: lacking material substance: immaterial, intangible c: suggesting the heavens or heaven. 3. : relating to, containing, or resembling a chemical ether. 
The Music of Ethereal, is simply songs pouring from the heart of Jesus. To be all that we can be, to help others to know Christ. His desire is that not one would perish, but that All would come to know Him and receive Him. This is our desire. This is what The Music of Ethereal is about, simply God’s plan for our life, struggling like everyone else to attain that perfection, that highest level, that desire, which God has placed within each. and every one of us.
Related to ambient · darkwave · gothic · female vocalists · dream pop. read more. The term ethereal is used in attempt to describe a sort of otherworldly, heavenly beauty in music that is difficult to grasp. Ethereal music usually sounds lush, hazy, spaced out, with distant synths, echoing guitars, and soaring vocals. This typical ethereal sound can be found in many genres such as ambient, new age, neofolk, dream pop, shoegaze, darkwave, and (obviously) ethereal wave.
The origin of the genre term(s) is not known with certainty. In the mid-1980s, several Cocteau Twins/This Mortal Coil records have been described as ethereal , etherealism or ethereal romanticism . In September 1988, Staci Bonner of Reflex magazine described the music of 4AD as gothically ethereal . Developed in the early 1980s in the UK as an outgrowth of gothic rock, ethereal was mainly represented by 4AD bands such as Cocteau Twins and early guitar-driven Dead Can Dance. “Known for its slick, gauzy package design and quasi-Gothic bands invariably described as Ethereal (q.v.
With ALL ORIGINAL MUSIC, Ethereal is a Must Watch in 2010, Here is Ethereal’s track – 8ig 8ad 8ig 8ad – LimeLinx Oh yeah, there tape is FREE .illectric ”. “Emerging in the Atlanta scene is the big homie Obie and his one man band Ethereal (yes, just him). “Ethereal has been eliciting eargasmic, celestial rhythms through his projects. Recently honing the craft of lyricism, the wheelchair boywonder is a double threat to be aware of. He’s been making consistent noise from his “Attack From The Sky” podcast to his GreedmontPark collaborative tape “No Saliva“.
(CMJ New Music Monthly, 1996). Ethereal wave, also called ethereal darkwave, ethereal goth or simply ethereal, is a subgenre of dark wave music and is variously described as gothic, romantic, and otherworldly. Developed in the early 1980s in the UK as an outgrowth of gothic rock, ethereal was mainly represented by 4AD bands such as Cocteau Twins and early guitar-driven Dead Can Dance. “Known for its slick, gauzy package design and quasi-Gothic bands invariably described as Ethereal (q.v.
Though ethereal wave and shoegazing (also referred to as  dream pop  by Simon Reynolds) share some similarities (e.g. the use of guitar effects such as flanger, chorus, echo, and delay), there are substantial differences between the genres. Developed in the early 1980s in the UK as an outgrowth of gothic rock, ethereal was mainly represented by 4AD bands such as Cocteau Twins and early guitar-driven Dead Can Dance. “Known for its slick, gauzy package design and quasi-Gothic bands invariably described as Ethereal (q.v.
1 An example of ethereal is the voice of a person who seems to whisper when talking. 2  An example of ethereal is a party room decorated only with the color white, using soft fabrics such as netting and chiffon. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. A forest scene with an ethereal feel. A forest scene with an ethereal feel. The definition of ethereal is someone or something that is light, airy or heavenly. 1  An example of ethereal is the voice of a person who seems to whisper when talking.