The experts concluded the herb does not produce large gains in strength or lean muscle mass. Where it comes from: Tribulus terrestris is a flowering plant native to the warm temperate and tropical regions of Europe, southern Asia, Africa and Australia. 1 Tribulus terrestris is often marketed with the claim that it will produce large gains in strength and lean muscle mass in just five to 28 days. 2  Australian researchers investigated that claim and studied 22 male elite rugby league players—some were given tribulus terrestris and others were given placebos.
Look for a Tribulus terrestris extract that's standardized to no less than 6% protodioscin and between 40% and 45% total saponins. Again, ideally, the plant from which the supplement is derived will be sourced from Turkey, Macedonia or Bulgaria. 
40 Tablets. M1445. $47.50. Tribulus contains an extract of Tribulus terrestris herb (aerial parts-leaves and stems) and contains steroidal saponins, mainly furostanol glycosides (including protodioscin and protogracillin) and small quantities of spirostanol glycosides, sterols and other compounds. 
Tribulus Terrestris supplement extract, benefit, side effects, testosterone, research studies-Review of supplement dosage, frequency of use, and combining it with other aphrodisiac herbs that enhances sexuality in men and women, by Ray Sahelian, M.D. May 5 2015. Buy Tribulus Terrestris supplement extract, 400 mg per each pill This tropical vine is common in sandy soils throughout India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and other parts of the world. It can be used by both men and women.
Tribulus is a plant that produces fruit covered with spines. Rumor has it that tribulus is also known as puncture vine because the spines are so sharp they can flatten bicycle tires. People use the fruit, leaf, and root as medicine for wide-ranging complaints.
Benefits of Tribulus Extract. Tribulus extract is a legal and respected dietary supplement. Tribulus extract, also known as Puncture Vine, is a flowering plant that may promote health and enhance the overall functionality of your body. Although Tribulus extract has long been used in Asia and Eastern Europe as a medicine, it is now primarily taken worldwide as a dietary supplement. Iron Magazine reported Tribulus extract provides benefits similar to synthetic anabolic hormones or steroids. When you consume Tribulus extract, your body releases luteinizing hormones. When this occurs, your testicles naturally generate additional testosterone.
1 Developing research suggests a tribulus extract taken by mouth might reduce symptoms of angina. 2  Eczema (atopic dermatitis). 3  Tribulus taken by mouth in combination with 9 other herbs (Zemaphyte) might reduce redness and skin outbreaks in adults and children with a certain type of eczema called nonexudative atopic eczema. Rumor has it that tribulus is also known as puncture vine because the spines are so sharp they can flatten bicycle tires. People use the fruit, leaf, and root as medicine for wide-ranging complaints.
by Lisa Freedman. Where it comes from: Tribulus terrestris is a flowering plant native to the warm temperate and tropical regions of Europe, southern Asia, Africa and Australia. 1 Tribulus terrestris is often marketed with the claim that it will produce large gains in strength and lean muscle mass in just five to 28 days. 2  Australian researchers investigated that claim and studied 22 male elite rugby league players—some were given tribulus terrestris and others were given placebos.
Tribulus terrestris is an annual plant in the Caltrop Family (Zygophyllaceae) widely distributed around the world, that is adapted to grow in dry climate locations in which few other plants can survive. It is an invasive species in North America. One study found that administration of Tribulus terrestris extract can produce statistically significant increases in levels of testosterone, dihydrotestosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone, and produces effects suggestive of aphrodisiac activity.