Report Abuse. you should have told the lady how you wanted your nails done, you can get fake nails as soon as the ones your currently wearing fall off, and they last up to 2 weeks, i know mine did... Finger Lickin' Good · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0
The glue that is used to put those nails on is very bad for your nails. When you take the tips off, your nails will be very thin and weak. They have to be maintained every 2 weeks if you want to keep them for any length of time. They do not damage your nails, it's the in-experienced nail tech using electric drills or abrasives that are way too harsh that does the damage. Also, if you pick them, bite them off, they will damage your nails-and that would be you not the acrylic nails doing the damage.
Acrylic nails last up to 2 weeks then you get them filled, they are very nice, attract dirt, and if you get them make sure you clean underneath them evey night, and if you chip them, you can get them fixed so it all tends how you keep them up. Source(s): myself, and other people. Emmalee · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. You should get a fill-in every 2weeks it depends on how fast your nails grow. They will grow while the nails are on but acrylic makes your real nails paper thin. They should last very long just keep up with your fill-in's. Bola.J
I can personally guarantee that Acrylic nails are 100% easier to manage than Gel nails. Not to mention that when getting Acrylic nails applied, they dont' have to file down your nail beds until they are almost gone. 1/2 hour for an application of Acrylic and 2 hours for the Gel. With Acrylic they just scratch up the surface of your existing nail to make the Acrylic nail stick. Report Abuse. well they could last something like 6 weeks(ask the nail professional when you get them done) if you never get them filled, which is when they fill the gap of growth every two weeks.
Getting acrylics done is easy but you have to take care of them regularly or you are inviting trouble to your nails. Acrylic nails usually last for 2 – 3 weeks before you will need little filling and fixing job done. In some cases, girls easily manage up to 4 weeks before they go for the filling. The overall life of the acrylic nails varies from 2 to 3 months. Yes you’ll want to get them redone after that period simply because they will lose the charm they had before. Acrylic Nails Overall Life 2 to 3 months.
Best Answer: I have been wearing my acrylic nails for almost 5 years with only a short break to do some decorating. You can wear them indefinately, as your nails do not need to breathe, they do not have lungs & they are 'dead' keratin once they have come out from under the eponychium (cuticle area). They do not damage your nails, it's the in-experienced nail tech using electric drills or abrasives that are way too harsh that does the damage. Also, if you pick them, bite them off, they will damage your nails-and that would be you not the acrylic nails doing the damage.
Report Abuse. Fill-ins 2-3 weeks, if you don't like them go and get some pure acetone and soak them off. I have gel on my nails and they appear to be more natural. Remember, just because you see a nails sign in the window doesn't mean they do a good job. you should have told the lady how you wanted your nails done, you can get fake nails as soon as the ones your currently wearing fall off, and they last up to 2 weeks, i know mine did... Finger Lickin' Good · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
They last indefinitely but you will have to get them filled as your nails grow. As your nails grow, there will be a flat gap between your cuticle & the end of the fake nail because your own nails are thinner. When you are using acrylic nails, you need to replace them after a few weeks. But you need to fill in about once a week. ChaCha! [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-do-fake-nails-last ]. More Answers to  How long do fake nails last .