Based in Denver, Colorado, Regis University is divided into five colleges: Regis College, The Rueckert-Hartman College for Health Professions, the College for Professional Studies, the College of Computer and Information Sciences, and the College of Business and Economics. When Regis absorbed her sister school, Loretto Heights College, the Rueckert Hartman College for Health Professions was born. Regis operates a nationally-recognized nursing program, and one of the premiere physical therapist programs.
Regis University, formerly known as Regis College, is a private, co-educational Roman Catholic, Jesuit university in the United States. Founded by the Society of Jesus in 1877, it is one of 28 member institutions of the Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities. When Regis absorbed her sister school, Loretto Heights College, the Rueckert Hartman College for Health Professions was born. Regis operates a nationally-recognized nursing program, and one of the premiere physical therapist programs.
Regis University’s Bachelor of Science in Computer Science degree empowers students to expertly design and implement computational solutions that tackle the world’s most challenging social, political, environmental, scientific, medical, economic, and business problems in a socially just manner. Regis University’s College of Computer & Information Sciences is the only institution in the country whose Bachelor of Science in Computer Science degree is both accredited by ABET and also can be earned completely online. Discover the Regis Advantage.
Summary. Regis University is a private institution that was founded in 1877. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 5,009, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 90 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Regis University's ranking in the 2016 edition of Best Colleges is Regional Universities (West), 28. Its tuition and fees are $33,710 (2015-16).
About Regis University. At the main campus of Regis University in Denver, Colorado, students get a high-quality Jesuit education that emphasizes academic rigor and service to others. Degree programs range from those in the arts and sciences to professional fields of study.
At Regis University, 67.8 percent of full-time undergraduates receive some kind of need-based financial aid and the average need-based scholarship or grant award is $16,998. Paying for college doesn't have to be difficult or devastating. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Regis University's ranking in the 2016 edition of Best Colleges is Regional Universities (West), 28. Its tuition and fees are $33,710 (2015-16).
About Regis. Regis is a leading Catholic university in Greater Boston with 2,000 undergraduate, graduate and doctoral students in the arts, sciences and health professions devoted to engagement, service and advancement in a global community. Learn More. Learn More. Regis College: A leading Catholic university in greater Boston. regis,Massachusetts,college, university, graduate degree programs,undergraduate degree programs,nursing, health,business, degree,degrees,program,programs,regis, doctoral.
Types of Aid. Regis University offers a wide range of opportunities for financial aid including scholarships, grants, loans, student employment and financing options.
History [edit]. Regis University was established by a group of exiled Italian Jesuits in 1877 in Las Vegas, New Mexico. That institution was named Las Vegas College. In 1884, the Bishop of Denver invited the Jesuits to create a college at Morrison where Sacred Heart College was opened. When Regis absorbed her sister school, Loretto Heights College, the Rueckert Hartman College for Health Professions was born. Regis operates a nationally-recognized nursing program, and one of the premiere physical therapist programs.