Lupine. any one plant of the genus Lupinus of the family Leguminosae. Lupines are primarily annual and perennial herbs, native to the Mediterranean coast and North America. Of the more than 200 species of Lupinus growing in the western and eastern hemispheres, more than ten species are cultivated. In Europe the most widely distributed species are the annuals blue lupine (Lupinus angustifolius yellow lupine (L. luteus), and white lupine (L. albus) as well as the perennial Washington lupine (L. polyphyllus).
Natural History: The genus Lupinus is separated into two groups: the Old World lupines, which are found in Mediterranean regions and in Eastern Africa; and New World lupines that are found in parts of North and South America. However, no infrageneric classification of lupines is available at this time, and it is necessary to provide a clear overview of the genus' origin. The existence of many Lupinus species has caused a major debate of where Lupinus originated: Mediterranean-African region, North America, South America, and East Asia.
The silver bush lupine descended from a variety of Lupinus species, and is among two-hundred to four-hundred species of annual and perennial species of lupine that can be found from Alaska, spanning from the northern Western Hemisphere, to Chile in South America (Ainouche and Bayer, 1999). However, no infrageneric classification of lupines is available at this time, and it is necessary to provide a clear overview of the genus' origin. The existence of many Lupinus species has caused a major debate of where Lupinus originated: Mediterranean-African region, North America, South America, and East Asia.
Description of Species: The silver bush lupine, or Lupinus albifrons is a small, round shrub with a woody, trunk-like base. It is a deciduous perennial that takes up one to two feet of space, and can grow between two to five feet. However, no infrageneric classification of lupines is available at this time, and it is necessary to provide a clear overview of the genus' origin. The existence of many Lupinus species has caused a major debate of where Lupinus originated: Mediterranean-African region, North America, South America, and East Asia.
In the hierarchy of biological classification, genus comes above species and below family. In binomial nomenclature, the genus name forms the first part of the binomial species name for each species within the genus. E.G., Felis catus and F. silvestris are two species within the genus Felis. Felis is a genus within the family Felidae. The composition of a genus is determined by a taxonomist. The standards for genus classification are not strictly codified, so different authorities often produce different classifications for genera.
lupine. or. (lo͞o`pĭn) , any species of the genus Lupinus, annual or perennial herbs or shrubs of the family Leguminosae (pulse pulse,in botany, common name for members of the Fabaceae (Leguminosae), a large plant family, called also the pea, or legume, family. In Europe the most widely distributed species are the annuals blue lupine (Lupinus angustifolius yellow lupine (L. luteus), and white lupine (L. albus) as well as the perennial Washington lupine (L. polyphyllus).
The genus Lupinus L. and, in particular, its North-American species, were divided by Sereno Watson (1873) into three sections: Lupinus, Platycarpos, and Lupinnelus. Differences in habitat and in the number of ovules were the basis for this classification. Subgenus Lupinus consists of 12 species from Africa and the Mediterranean, with a minimum of 4 ovules or seedbuds. The taxonomy of Lupinus has always been confusing. It is not clear how many distinct species there are or how they might be organized within the genus.
Fabaceae. Annuals, perennials, and shrubs in about 200 species with palmate foliage and showy spires of flowers in many colors. Lupines are native to the Americas, the Mediterranean, and North Africa. Use them, depending on size, in a border, natural garden, rock garden, or alpine house. Noteworthy characteristics: Spires of pea-like flowers in a variety of single colors and bi-colors.
Lupinus, commonly known as lupin or lupine (North America), is a genus of flowering plants in the legume family, Fabaceae. The genus includes over 200 species, with centers of diversity in North and South America. Subgenus Lupinus consists of 12 species from Africa and the Mediterranean, with a minimum of 4 ovules or seedbuds. The taxonomy of Lupinus has always been confusing. It is not clear how many distinct species there are or how they might be organized within the genus.