People with atrial fibrillation (an irregular heart beat) are at an increased risk of forming a blood clot in the heart, which can travel to the brain, causing a stroke, or to other parts of the body. XARELTO ® lowers your chance of having a stroke by helping to prevent clots from forming. If you stop taking XARELTO ® , you may have increased risk of forming a clot in your blood. Do not stop taking XARELTO ® without talking to the doctor who prescribes it for you. XARELTO ® is a prescription medicine used to reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people with atrial fibrillation, not caused by a heart valve problem.
“Anti” means against, and “coagulant” refers to blood clotting. An anticoagulant helps prevent clots from forming in your blood. Although rivaroxaban is sometimes called a “blood-thinner,” it works by preventing a natural blood component, called factor Xa, from forming clots. It does not make your blood thinner. Factor Xa is the clotting factor that rivaroxaban blocks. This prevents the clot from forming. Rivaroxaban can help stop clots from forming and can keep clots from getting larger, but it does not break up clots that are there already.
Like other blood thinners, rivaroxaban does not break down clots. Instead, it slows down clot formation, giving the body a chance to break down the clots naturally. 
XARELTO ® is a prescription medicine used to reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people with atrial fibrillation, not caused by a heart valve problem. For patients currently well managed on warfarin, there is limited information on how XARELTO ® and warfarin compare in reducing the risk of stroke. If you have to stop taking XARELTO ® , your doctor may prescribe another blood thinner medicine to prevent a blood clot from forming. XARELTO® can cause bleeding, which can be serious, and rarely may lead to death. This is because XARELTO ® is a blood thinner medicine that reduces blood clotting.
1 Review. Xarelto is the brand name for the prescription medication rivaroxaban, a blood thinner, or anticoagulant, that prevents blood clots from forming. Xarelto is in a class of medications called factor Xa inhibitors, which means they affect the action of an enzyme, Factor X, that is involved in blood clotting. DVT may lead to PE, which is a blood clot in the lung. Also in 2011, the FDA approved Xarelto for people diagnosed with a type of irregular heartbeat called nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (or afib) that is not related to a heart valve problem. Atrial fibrillation increases a person's risk for blood clots and stroke
Why It Is Used. In people who have had pulmonary embolism, anticoagulants are used to prevent more blood clots from forming and causing another episode of pulmonary embolism. They are used in the hospital as first treatment of a pulmonary embolism. And they also may be used at home. 
A blood clot in the brain can cause a. stroke. Rivaroxaban lowers the chance. of clots forming and causing a stroke. Rivaroxaban is also used to treat clots that have already formed in the. veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) , or in your lungs (pulmonary. embolism), and to lower the risk of clots forming again. Factor Xa is the clotting factor that rivaroxaban blocks. This prevents the clot from forming. Rivaroxaban can help stop clots from forming and can keep clots from getting larger, but it does not break up clots that are there already.
Do not stop taking rivaroxaban unless directed by your doctor. If you stop taking this medication early, you have a higher risk of forming a serious blood clot (such as a stroke, blood clot in the legs/ lungs). If you are taking this drug to prevent strokes and blood clots that may form due to an irregular heartbeat, the dose is usually taken once a day with the evening meal. If you are taking rivaroxaban to treat blood clots, the dose is usually taken twice a day for the first 3 weeks, and then once a day.