1 In DNA, Adenine binds to Thymine. 2  In RNA, Adenine binds to Uracil. 3  These hydrogen-bond interactions between nucleotides C-G and A-T or A-U are referred to as base-pairing or complementary base-pairing. 4  Base-pairing holds the double-stranded DNA molecule together. 1 In RNA, Adenine binds to Uracil. 2  These hydrogen-bond interactions between nucleotides C-G and A-T or A-U are referred to as base-pairing or complementary base-pairing. 3  Base-pairing holds the double-stranded DNA molecule together. 4  Base-pairing is necessary for DNA synthesis, RNA synthesis, and Protein synthesis to occur.
1 Nitrogenous bases can form hydrogen bonds. 2  Adenine, Thymine, and Uracil can form TWO hydrogen bonds. 3  Guanine and Cytosine can form THREE hydrogen bonds. 4  In nucleic acids (DNA and RNA), nitrogenous bases can bind to each other by hydrogen bonding. 1 In RNA, Adenine binds to Uracil. 2  These hydrogen-bond interactions between nucleotides C-G and A-T or A-U are referred to as base-pairing or complementary base-pairing. 3  Base-pairing holds the double-stranded DNA molecule together. 4  Base-pairing is necessary for DNA synthesis, RNA synthesis, and Protein synthesis to occur.
1 Adenine, Thymine, and Uracil can form TWO hydrogen bonds. 2  Guanine and Cytosine can form THREE hydrogen bonds. 3  In nucleic acids (DNA and RNA), nitrogenous bases can bind to each other by hydrogen bonding. 4  Guanine binds to Cytosine, and Cytosine binds to Guanine. 5  In DNA, Adenine binds to Thymine. 1 In RNA, Adenine binds to Uracil. 2  These hydrogen-bond interactions between nucleotides C-G and A-T or A-U are referred to as base-pairing or complementary base-pairing. 3  Base-pairing holds the double-stranded DNA molecule together. 4  Base-pairing is necessary for DNA synthesis, RNA synthesis, and Protein synthesis to occur.
These nitrogenous bases are adenine (A), uracil (U), guanine (G), thymine (T), and cytosine (C). These nitrogenous bases hydrogen bond between opposing DNA strands to form the rungs of the twisted ladder or double helix of DNA or a biological catalyst that is found in the nucleotides. Adenine is always paired with thymine, and guanine is always paired with cytosine. These are known as base pairs. The main biological function of a nitrogenous base is to bond nucleic acids together. A nitrogenous, or nitrogen-containing, base is an organic molecule with a nitrogen atom that has the chemical properties of a base. A nitrogenous base owes its basic properties to the lone pair of electrons of a nitrogen atom.
Overview [edit]. A DNA nucleotide is composed of 3 main units: a sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. While the sugar and phosphate group alternate in sequence and form the backbone of the DNA double helix, the nitrogenous bases may differ in every adjoining nucleotide. The four nitrogenous bases present in DNA are adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C) and thymine (T). In RNA, the only differing nitrogenous base is uracil (U) (which replaces thymine in DNA and differs thymine only by the missing methyl group at carbon 5 of the pyrimidine ring). Of the nitrogenous bases, adenine and guanine are purines, which are aromatic compounds attached to an imidazole group, while cytosine and thymine and uracil compose a set of pyrimidines, which are one ring-aromatic compounds.
The phosphate group forms a bond with the deoxyribose sugar through an ester bond between one of its negatively charged oxygen groups and the 5' -OH of the sugar 1  (). A nitrogenous base, which can be either adenine, guanine, cytosine, or thymine (in the case of RNA, thymine is replaced by uracil). Nucleotides. A nucleotide consists of three things: The nitrogen bases are pyrimidine in structure and form a bond between their 1' nitrogen and the 1' -OH group of the deoxyribose. This type of bond is called a glycosidic bond.
These strong covalent bonds form the the glue that holds the sugar/phosphate backbone together and thus act to keep each strand together. The two strands of DNA are held together by weak hydrogen bonds (remember, something must hold them together!) between the nitrogenous bases. The interesting (and very important) aspect of the Watson-Crick model is that these hydrogen bonds are base specific. 