The modern urban centre of Letterkenny began as a market town at the start of the 17th century, during the Plantation of Ulster. An ancient castle once stood near where the Cathedral of St. Eunan and St. Columba, Donegal's only Roman Catholic cathedral, stands today. In 1824, when the first description of Letterkenny as a modern town was written, it was stated that: Within half a mile is the Port of Ballyraine, whither vessels of 100 tons bring iron, salt and colonial produce and whence they export hides and butter .
The Letterkenny Institute of Technology (LYIT; known locally as The Regional and The IT), which is situated east of the town centre on the Port Road, is a centre for engineering, information technology, materials science, design, business and nursing humanities. In 1824, when the first description of Letterkenny as a modern town was written, it was stated that: Within half a mile is the Port of Ballyraine, whither vessels of 100 tons bring iron, salt and colonial produce and whence they export hides and butter .
This is an article concerning a U.S. Army Installation. It is not an article about the town of Letterkenny in Ireland. Letterkenny Army Depot, the Center of Industrial and Technical Excellence (CITE) for Air Defense and Tactical Missile Systems, was established in 1942. The depot is under the command structure of the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command (AMCOM). Letterkenny has unique tactical missile repair capabilities repairing a variety of Defense Department missile systems, including the MIM-104 PATRIOT missile and its ground support and radar equipment.
Our mission at Letterkenny Army Depot is to provide outstanding safety and health protection to our soldiers, employees, contractors and visitors through solid management systems and employee involvement. 
Letterkenny (Irish: Leitir Ceanainn, meaning Hillside of the O'Cannons), known as the Cathedral Town, is the largest and most populous urban settlement in County Donegal and the tidiest in Ireland. In 1824, when the first description of Letterkenny as a modern town was written, it was stated that: Within half a mile is the Port of Ballyraine, whither vessels of 100 tons bring iron, salt and colonial produce and whence they export hides and butter .
Mission. The mission at Letterkenny Army Depot is to provide outstanding safety and health protection to our soldiers, employees, contractors and visitors through solid management systems and employee involvement. History. In 1941, Letterkenny was chosen by the U.S Department of War to be one of twelve new ordnance depots. On December 18, 1941, the secretary of war issued the directive to acquire 21,000 acres (85 km²) at Letterkenny for a depot.
Donegal's premier third-level institution, the Letterkenny Institute of Technology (LYIT), is located in the town, as are Saint Eunan's College, Highland Radio, and the only Hindu temple in the Republic of Ireland. In 1824, when the first description of Letterkenny as a modern town was written, it was stated that: Within half a mile is the Port of Ballyraine, whither vessels of 100 tons bring iron, salt and colonial produce and whence they export hides and butter .
1 About Letterkenny. 2  Letterkenny is the largest town in Co. 3  Donegal and is situated on a hillside by the River Swilly. 4  Letterkennys Mainstreet, just minutes walk from the Mount Errigal Hotel is the longest street in Ireland. 