Vol. 23, No. 2, 1999 101 Medications To Treat Alcoholism colleagues (1997) found modest improve-ment in alcohol consumption (measuredas percent drinking days) only amongpatients who took their daily dose ofnaltrexone on at least 90 percent of the study days.
Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Alcoholism. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Alcoholism returned the following treatments.
Other agents that have been used with some success in the treatment of withdrawal include beta-blockers, clonidine, phenothiazines, and anticonvulsants. All can be used with benzodiazepines, but none has been proven to be adequate as monotherapy. A number of medications have been tried in the treatment of alcoholism.
Medications also exist that can assist in the treatment of alcohol use disorder. Acamprosate is a medication that reduces symptoms of protracted withdrawal and has been shown to help individuals with alcohol use disorders who have achieved abstinence go on to maintain abstinence for several weeks to months.
Treatment of alcohol withdrawal is best accomplished with benzodiazepines. Avoid fixed-dose therapy, and treat patients for symptoms. This results in use of lower doses of benzodiazepines, less patient sedation, and earlier patient discharge.
Naltrexone (ReVia, Vivitrol) is approved for the treatment of alcoholism and helps reduce alcohol dependence in the short term for people with moderate-to-severe alcohol dependency. ReVia, a pill that is taken daily by mouth, is the oral form of this medication.
Alcoholism or alcohol dependence is a diagnosable disease characterized by a strong craving for alcohol, and/or continued use despite harm or personal injury. Alcohol abuse, which can lead to alcoholism, is a pattern of drinking that results in harm to one's health, interpersonal relationships, or ability to work.
Naltrexone (Trexan, Revia, or Vivitrol) has been found effective in managing this illness. It is the most frequently used medication in treating alcohol use disorder. It decreases the alcoholic's cravings for alcohol by blocking the body's euphoric (high) response to it. Naltrexone is either taken by mouth on a daily basis or through monthly injections.