Chlordiazepoxide is a long-acting benzodiazepine drug. The half-life of Chlordiazepoxide is 5 – 30 hours but has an active benzodiazepine metabolite (desmethyldiazepam), which has a half-life of 36 – 200 hours. Withdrawal from chlordiazepoxide or other benzodiazepines often leads to withdrawal symptoms that are similar to those seen with alcohol and barbiturates. The higher the dose and the longer the drug is taken, the greater the risk of experiencing unpleasant withdrawal symptoms.
Understanding Librium. Librium, the brand name for chlordiazepoxide, is a fast-acting benzodiazepine sedative. It is used to soothe anxiety and to treat seizures and tremors. People recovering from other addictions, particularly alcohol, can find Librium helpful for relieving withdrawal symptoms. Like other benzodiazepines, Librium slows overexcited mental function by binding to special receptors in the brain. Librium’s high potency and long half-life, or duration of its effects, relegate the drug to short-term use. It may be prescribed in situations such as before surgery to decrease stress.
These properties make benzodiazepines useful in treating anxiety, insomnia, agitation, seizures, muscle spasms, alcohol withdrawal and as a premedication for medical or dental procedures. Benzodiazepines are categorized as either short-, intermediate-, or long-acting. A benzodiazepine can be placed into one of three groups by its elimination half-life, or time it takes for the body to eliminate half of the dose. Some benzodiazepines have long-acting active metabolites, such as diazepam and chlordiazepoxide, which are metabolised into desmethyldiazepam. Desmethyldiazepam has a half-life of 36–200 hours, and flurazepam, with the main active metabolite of desalkylflurazepam, with a half-life of 40–250 hours
This is a urine test to screen for a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Benzodiazepines are central nervous system depressants. They are used to sedate patients, help them sleep, prevent seizures, ease anxiety, and relax muscle spasms. 
Chlordiazepoxide is an orally available benzodiazepine used for therapy of anxiety and alcohol withdrawal syndromes. 
Benzodiazepines are widely used for a variety of conditions including anxiety and insomnia, but also for muscle tightness, pre-surgical sedation, detoxification from alcohol and the anxiety experienced with cardiovascular or gastrointestinal conditions. 
Librium (chlordiazepoxide) is a benzodiazepine anxiolytic (antipanic and antianxiety) medication like prescribed to ease symptoms of anxiety, but only for a short period of time. It works by affecting the way some chemicals in your brain called neurotransmitters pass messages to certain brain cells. Chemistry of Librium. Librium belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. These are organic compounds containing a benzene ring combined with isomers of diazepine. It has a molecular mass of 299.755.
Benzodiazepines are widely prescribed for a variety of conditions, particularly anxiety and insomnia. They are relatively safe and, with overdose, rarely result in death. However, used chronically, benzodiazepines can be addicting. 