How social media networks can affect society negatively. Save | Email | Print | PDF By: Kelly Marsh. Many people have a presence on one of the social networking sites and let's admit it, many of us are addicted to it-and why not, for it is the quickest way to contact our friends and make a long friend's list. However, like every good thing, it has a flip side as well. Yes, social networking sites such as Facebook, My Space and Tumblr etc, can also have a negative effect. Here are some of the reasons why: Invasion of privacy. We gladly put our photographs and information on our 'page'
WASHINGTON (WNEW) — With over 73 percent of online adults now using a social networking site, social media has dramatically impacted the world in both positive and negative ways. It has left many people to wonder how and if social media can mentally affect people. Lemoyne College professor of psychology Krystine Batcho believes that social media has made changes for the better and also not so great for society. The study also found that roughly 71 percent of online adults are Facebook users as of December 2013. Batcho feels that there’s no doubt social media, including sites like Facebook, can mentally affect some people.
Both Batcho and Broder agree that social media has more positive benefits for society than negatives citing how news is communicated globally through social media sites like Facebook and Twitter and also that people can connect with others across the globe. The study also found that roughly 71 percent of online adults are Facebook users as of December 2013. Batcho feels that there’s no doubt social media, including sites like Facebook, can mentally affect some people.
Thinkstock Images/Comstock/Getty Images. With 750 million active users as of the date of publication (according to figures on its website), Facebook has the potential to affect society in both subtle and obvious ways. In 2011, protestors in the Middle East used Facebook to organize and in some cases change the regimes of their countries.
We have Facebook on our computers, cellphones and even televisions. People across the world use Facebook. And all these users myself included get negative effects from Facebook, this social world were people interact. Studies have shown that Facebook has negative psychological effects on young adults. The more people use Facebook, the worst they feel afterwards and the studies also show that the more an individual uses the site the more his life satisfaction level declines.
Social networking sites have also been famous for defaming and negatively portraying brands, companies, celebrities, as well as members of the general public. Many slips happen and in the case of social media marketing, confidential information can be released-and once it's out there, it cannot be retrieved. However, like every good thing, it has a flip side as well. Yes, social networking sites such as Facebook, My Space and Tumblr etc, can also have a negative effect. Here are some of the reasons why: Invasion of privacy.
Social media of all kinds has become such an important part of our society that looking at it in a negative way will only set us back. We as a society must push forward and continue to incorporate social media in more positive ways. 
This is how our rapidly advancing technology is hurting our society. Another way that technology has negatively affected our society is with the invention of the cell phone our society was changed so dramatically that it impacted most things people do. The cell phone has hurt our society in three distinctive ways. Technology has affected our society in many ways but as you have seen technology has improved our society and also hurt our society in many ways. The ways technology is impacting our lives today is staggering (How Does Technology Affect Society).
Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. Social networking sites like Facebook and MySpace allow you to find and connect with just about anyone, from a coworker in a neighboring cube to the girl who played Emily in your high school production of Our Town thirty years ago. 
If a prospective employee has posted something embarrassing on social media, it can drastically affect their chances of getting the job. The same holds true for our relationships too, as our loved ones and friends may get to know if we post something undesirable on social networks. While Social Media has great impact on people, there will always be a negative impact too. That’s natural. It’s just the proper choice that we should choose. Even in cyber world, we should also be responsible too.