The cell’s nucleus contains chromosomes chromosomes: Rod shaped bodies found in the nucleus of cells that contain genetic information (DNA). made from long DNA molecules. The diagram shows the relationship between the cell, its nucleus, chromosomes in the nucleus, and genes. Nucleus, chromosome and gene. Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 
Genes carry the information needed to pass on these traits. In summary, DNA, genes, and chromosomes are very similar in their 'composition', since genes are stretches of DNA that codes for certain proteins and chromosomes are made up of coiled DNA. The gene is the trait coding sequence along the DNA strand that encodes either a protein or a functional RNA. The gene is the address, or loci, of a coding frame that is occupied by a particular allele, or version, of the gene.
DNA forms chromosomes which in cells form genetic codes (genes) in the nucleus, DNA is copied in cell division to make new chromosomes and some (very few) mutate and form new genes. Such closed parallelism was recognized by Sutton and Boveri between genes and chromo somes. PARALLELISM BETWEEN GENES AND CHROMOSOMES The chromosomes, and therefore the genes, are made up of the chemical substance called DNA.
Best Answer: In one sentance, the relationship can be summed up as: Chromatin is the complex of DNA and protein that makes up chromosomes.. To expand further: DNA is formed of a double-stranded nucleic acids (aka double-helix). DNA spends most of the time in a state that is very long and relatively fragile. 
Chromosomes contain ~ equal parts of scaffolding protein and DNA that form a linear structure. The structure can be opened out for access to genes (open reading frames) located along the DNA or the structure can be compressed for easy handling during cell replication. The gene is the trait coding sequence along the DNA strand that encodes either a protein or a functional RNA. The gene is the address, or loci, of a coding frame that is occupied by a particular allele, or version, of the gene.
A chromosome is a long packaged DNA sequence. The human diploid (DNA From both mother and father) cell has 46 of these. A chromosome contains thousands of genes which are the … sequences in the actual DNA that code for end products such as proteins. Genes are segments of DNA that code for a particular trait. DNA is wound up around proteins into recognizable chromosomes. Chromosomes are located within the nucleus of the ce … ll.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: When a cell needs to duplicate, DNA strands are tightly coiled into chromosomes (chromosomes are made up of DNA and protein). Genes are certain stretches of DNA that code for a certain protein with a specific bodily function. On a chromosome, the location of the gene is called a locus. The gene is the trait coding sequence along the DNA strand that encodes either a protein or a functional RNA. The gene is the address, or loci, of a coding frame that is occupied by a particular allele, or version, of the gene.
DNA is the chemical that chromosomes and genes are made of. DNA itself is made up of four simple chemical units that are abbreviated as A, G, C, and T. These letters are used to form three letter words that cells can read. A chromosome is simply a very long piece of DNA that cells can easily copy. A gene is a stretch of DNA on a chromosome that has the instructions for making a protein. Each chromosome has many genes with humans having over 22,000 genes in all. A gene's instructions for a protein are written in the three letter code I referred to before.
A gene is a sequence of DNA that determines a particular trait. A chromosome is a coiled DNA chromosome that contains the organisms genetic code (aka-genes). Genes are segments of DNA that code for a particular trait. DNA is wound up around proteins into recognizable chromosomes. Chromosomes are located within the nucleus of the ce … ll.
Chromosomes are molecules that consist of a very long strand of DNA coiled many times, and a few proteins called histones which hold the whole structure together. To put things very simply, chromosomes are made up of genes and genes are made of DNA. One could use the analogy; DNA-letters, genes-words, chromosomes-books, genome-collective volume. Such closed parallelism was recognized by Sutton and Boveri between genes and chromo somes. PARALLELISM BETWEEN GENES AND CHROMOSOMES The chromosomes, and therefore the genes, are made up of the chemical substance called DNA.