If the arteries to the heart become narrow, blood flow to the heart can slow down or stop. This can cause chest pain (stable angina), shortness of breath, and other symptoms. Narrowed or blocked arteries may also cause problems and symptoms in your intestines, kidneys, legs, and brain. 
Blame It on the Bad Fat. The medical term for clogged arteries is atherosclerosis, and it’s a major risk factor for heart attack or stroke, because clogged and hardened arteries may restrict blood flow to some parts of the brain or heart. Sometimes the plaque buildup is hereditary, but often, it’s related to diet. 
A. A. Coronary artery disease, also called coronary heart disease, or simply, heart disease, is the No. 1 killer in America, affecting more than 13 million Americans. Heart disease is a result of plaque buildup in your arteries, which blocks blood flow and heightens the risk for heart attack and stroke. Heart disease is a result of plaque buildup in your coronary arteries -- a condition called atherosclerosis -- that leads to blockages. The arteries, which start out smooth and elastic, become narrow and rigid, restricting blood flow to the heart
The arteries in your legs and feet can get blocked, just like the arteries in your heart. When this happens, less blood flows to your legs. This is called peripheral artery disease (PAD). 
Coronary Artery Disease Overview. Arteries that are clogged and hardened by cholesterol and fatty buildup restrict blood flow to the heart muscle. Chest pain (angina) occurs because the heart is deprived of oxygen and nutrients. When blood supply is cut off entirely, heart attack can result. 
Heart attack. A heart attack occurs when one or more of your coronary arteries become blocked. Over time, a coronary artery can narrow from the buildup of various substances, including cholesterol (atherosclerosis). This condition, known as coronary artery disease, causes most heart attacks. Another cause of a heart attack is a spasm of a coronary artery that shuts down blood flow to part of the heart muscle. Use of tobacco and of illicit drugs, such as cocaine, can cause a life-threatening spasm. A heart attack can also occur due to a tear in the heart artery (spontaneous coronary artery dissection).
(Cancer is number two on the list.). Atherosclerosis is a disease of the arteries, the blood vessels that carry oxygen and nutrients to our organs and tissues (including heart muscle tissue). 