The regulations of the PHMSA/USDOT at 49 CFR 172, Subpart H require a HazMat Employer to identify and train all of their HazMat Employees initially (within 90 days of hire) and at least once every three years thereafter. 1 THE IDENTIFICATION ANDTRAINING OF HAZMATEMPLOYEESPursuant to the regulations of the Pipelineand Hazardous Materials SafetyAdministration (PHMSA) of the USDOTIdentification & Training of HazMat Employees @DanielsTraining 1.
Violations of any hazardous materials regulations including training may be subject to a civil penalty of up to $27,500 for each violation and, in appropriate cases, a criminal penalty of up to $500,000 and/or imprisonment of up to 5 years. (See 49 CFR § 107.329 and § 107.333.). 
(5) In-depth security training. By December 22, 2003, each hazmat employee of a person required to have a security plan in accordance with subpart I of this part must be trained concerning the security plan and its implementation. Hazmat employers are required to provide training as specified in 172.704 of the Title 49 CFR which states in paragraph (a): Hazmat employee training shall include the following: (1) General awareness/familiarization training.
Each hazmat employee shall be provided general awareness/familiarization training designed to provide familiarity with the requirements of this subchapter, and to enable the employee to recognize and identify hazardous materials consistent with the hazard communication standards of this subchapter. Hazmat employers are required to provide training as specified in 172.704 of the Title 49 CFR which states in paragraph (a): Hazmat employee training shall include the following: (1) General awareness/familiarization training.
(b) Beginning and Completing Training.— A hazmat employer shall begin the training of hazmat employees of the employer not later than 6 months after the Secretary prescribes the regulations under subsection (a) of this section. The training shall be completed within a reasonable period of time after—. (1) 6 months after the regulations are prescribed; or. (2) the date on which an individual is to begin carrying out a duty or power of a hazmat employee if the individual is employed as a hazmat employee after the 6-month period. “(1) expertise in conducting a training program for hazmat employees; and. “(2) the ability to reach and involve in a training program a target population of hazmat employees.”. Subsec. (f).
(A) means a person. (i) who. (I) employs or uses at least 1 hazmat employee on a full time, part time, or temporary basis; or. (II) is self-employed (including an owner-operator of a motor vehicle, vessel, or aircraft) transporting hazardous material in commerce; and. (i
A hazmat employee is a person who is employed by a hazmat employer and who directly affects hazmat transportation safety. This includes: 1  An owner-operator of a motor vehicle which transports hazmat. 2  A person (including a self-employed person) who: 3  Loads, unloads, or handles hazmat. 4  Tests, reconditions, repairs hazmat. A hazmat employer is a person who uses one or more employees in connection with: 1  Transporting hazmat in commerce. 2  Causing hazmat to be transported or shipped in commerce.
(2) Function-specific training. (i) Each hazmat employee must be provided function-specific training concerning requirements of this subchapter, or exemptions or special permits issued under subchapter A of this chapter, that are specifically applicable to the functions the employee performs. Hazmat employers are required to provide training as specified in 172.704 of the Title 49 CFR which states in paragraph (a): Hazmat employee training shall include the following: (1) General awareness/familiarization training.