Fast Facts. 1  Spondyloarthritis is a type of arthritis that attacks the spine and, in some people, the joints of the arms and legs. 2  It can also involve the skin, intestines and eyes. 3  The main symptom (what you feel) in most patients is low back pain. 4  This occurs most often in axial spondyloarthritis. 1 It can also involve the skin, intestines and eyes. 2  The main symptom (what you feel) in most patients is low back pain. 3  This occurs most often in axial spondyloarthritis. 4  In a minority of patients, the major symptom is pain and swelling in the arms and legs.
Diseases that fall under spondyloarthritis umbrella are ankylosing spondylitis, reactive arthritis (known previously as Reiter's syndrome) psoriatic arthritis and psoriatic spondylitis, and the arthritis or spondylitis associated with the inflammatory bowel diseases, ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. 
Spondyloarthritis has two main symptom patterns. For most people, the first and predominant symptom is low back pain. If not controlled, spinal involvement can progress, resulting in fusion of the vertebrae and limiting the spine’s mobility. Less commonly, the main symptom is swelling in the arms and legs. Others include reactive arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and enteropathic arthritis, which is associated with the inflammatory bowel disease. Spondyloarthritis, in most cases, primarily affects the spine.
Spondyloarthropathy or spondyloarthrosis refers to any joint disease of the vertebral column. As such, it is a class or category of diseases rather than a single, specific entity. It differs from spondylopathy, which is a disease of the vertebra itself. However, many conditions involve both spondylopathy and spondyloarthropathy. For the Italian type of company, see Societa società per. Azioni spondyloarthropathy or spondyloarthrosis refers to any joint disease of the vertebral. Column as, such it is a class or category of diseases rather than a, single specific. Entity it differs from, spondylopathy which is a disease of the vertebra. itself
Description. A form of arthritis, AS is characterized by chronic inflammation, causing pain and stiffness of the back, progressing to the chest and neck. Eventually, the whole back may become curved and inflexible if the bones fuse (this is known as bamboo spine). Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) refers to inflammation of the joints in the spine. AS is also known as rheumatoid spondylitis or Marie-Struempell strümpell (disease among other). names
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Spondyloarthritis refers to a set of inflammatory disorders that mainly afflict the spine, joints, and ligaments. Sometimes, arthritis develops in other parts of the body such as in the intestines, urinary tract, heart, and skin. Often, there is a family history of the condition, and people with the genetic marker HLA-B27 are more likely to develop the disease. Reactive arthritis can be set off by an intestinal or urinary tract infection. Spondyloarthritis is usually chronic and progressive in nature.
Spondyloarthritis. The term Spondyloarthritis (SpA) describes a group of inflammatory arthritis diseases with common features, including inflammation of the spine, eyes, skin and gastrointestinal tract. This group was also sometimes referred to as Spondylitis and Spondyloarthropathies. Although Spondyloarthritis is form of inflammatory arthritis, it differs from Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) because people with SpA do not have rheumatoid factor antibodies in their blood. They are seronegative whereas people with RA are seropositive.
1 Spondyloarthritis is a type of arthritis that attacks the spine and, in some people, the joints of the arms and legs. 2  It can also involve the skin, intestines and eyes. 3  The main symptom (what you feel) in most patients is low back pain. 4  This occurs most often in axial spondyloarthritis. 1 It can also involve the skin, intestines and eyes. 2  The main symptom (what you feel) in most patients is low back pain. 3  This occurs most often in axial spondyloarthritis. 4  In a minority of patients, the major symptom is pain and swelling in the arms and legs.
Spondyloarthritis is an umbrella term for inflammatory diseases that involve both the joints and the entheses (the sites where the ligaments and tendons attach to the bones). The most common of these diseases is ankylosing spondylitis. Others include reactive arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and enteropathic arthritis, which is associated with the inflammatory bowel disease. Spondyloarthritis, in most cases, primarily affects the spine. Some forms can affect the peripheral joints -- those in the hands, feet, arms and leg