The size of the uterus changes depending on the age and hormonal condition of the woman. Before a girl reaches puberty, the normal uterus size lengthwise is around 3.5 cm. The normal size of the uterus varies according to the age of the woman. This Buzzle write-up tells you what should be the average size of the uterus and what any changes in it may indicate.
When the girl reaches puberty, then due to the surge in hormonal secretions, the uterus gains its proper pear-shaped appearance, and its dimensions increase as well. The normal size of the uterus in cm is said to be 7.6 cm x 4.5 cm x 3 cm, with the length being 7.6 cm and width being 4.5 cm. Its thickness (anteroposterior diameter) is usually around 3 cm. The volume of the uterus varies and fluctuates between 75cc and 200cc. The uterus weighs about 100 to 200 grams and on an average, can be said to be the size of the fist of the woman. The normal size of the uterus varies according to the age of the woman. This Buzzle write-up tells you what should be the average size of the uterus and what any changes in it may indicate.
Re: Nrmal Size of a Healthy Uterus. Hi Ellie-My told me the size of an apple or 6 - 8 grams. Mine was 3 times the normal size, almost 4 - weighed 222 grams. Re: Nrmal Size of a Healthy Uterus. Funny what we're all told, I was told close to the size of your fist. When I had my surgery on the 13th, my uterus was the size of a bowling ball and weighed over 2 pounds!
A normal uterus is about the size of a woman's fist. Measurements would be about 8 x 6 x 4 cm and weighing about 100-200 grams (4-7 ounces I believe). 
The Uterus. To gain an understanding of how the reproductive system works, it's really important that you also have a basic understanding of The Uterus and all of it's relevant components. A normal uterus is typically the size and shape of an upside down pear and weighs somewhere around 6 ounces. Its dimensional size is about eight to ten centimeters by six centimeters (roughly 3-4 inches by 2 inches). 
The prepubertal uterus is about 3.5 cm in length and thickness is on average 1 cm. Hormonal stimulation that occurs during puberty will result in rapid growth and changes in the size of the uterus. The normal length is about 7.6 cm and width is 4.5 cm. The average normal thickness is 3.0 cm and in an adult female, the uterus weights about 60 grams but ranges up to 200 grams depending on various conditions. Pregnancy. This results in the most dynamic changes in uterine size. As the pregnancy progresses beyond 12 weeks, the uterus begins to rise up out of the pelvis. At 20 weeks, the fundus, or top, of the uterus is felt at the level of the belly button.
Re: Nrmal Size of a Healthy Uterus. The average uterus is about the size of a woman's fist or about 8 x 6 x 4 cm. Normal weight is about 100-200 gms. Re: Nrmal Size of a Healthy Uterus. Funny what we're all told, I was told close to the size of your fist. When I had my surgery on the 13th, my uterus was the size of a bowling ball and weighed over 2 pounds!
Uterine fibroids are noncancerous growths of the muscle tissue of the uterus. Fibroids can range in number and size from a single growth to multiple growths, and from very small to large. As many as 70% to 80% of all women will have fibroids by age 50. The medical term for fibroids is leiomyoma or myoma. Types of Fibroids. 1  Intramural fibroids, the most common, grow in the wall of the uterus and can make it feel bigger. 2  Subserosal fibroids grow on the outside of the uterus. 3  As they grow larger, they can cause pain due to their size or pressure put on nearby organs.
Size after Puberty. The normal length is about 7.6 cm and width is 4.5 cm. The average normal thickness is 3.0 cm and in an adult female, the uterus weights about 60 grams but ranges up to 200 grams depending on various conditions. Pregnancy. This results in the most dynamic changes in uterine size. As the pregnancy progresses beyond 12 weeks, the uterus begins to rise up out of the pelvis. At 20 weeks, the fundus, or top, of the uterus is felt at the level of the belly button.
The uterus is the largest in size of the female reproductive organs which is the site of implantation of a fertilized egg and where the fetus ultimately grows to maturity. The size of the uterus will fluctuate based on a variety of factors such as age and hormone levels. Pregnancy. This results in the most dynamic changes in uterine size. As the pregnancy progresses beyond 12 weeks, the uterus begins to rise up out of the pelvis. At 20 weeks, the fundus, or top, of the uterus is felt at the level of the belly button.