neurotransmitter effects. 1) all preganglionic terminals release Ach, acetylcholine and are excitatory 2)all postganglionic parasympathetic terminals release ACh and effects may be excitatory or inhibitory 3)Most postganglionic sympathetic terminals release norepinenephrine (NE) and effects are usually excitatory.
All preganglionic fibers, whether they are in the sympathetic division or in the parasympathetic division, are cholinergic (that is, these fibers use acetylcholine as their neurotransmitter) and either unmyelinated or myelinated.
1. Cholinergic-release Ach. Include: -All preganglionic fibers of the ANS, so the preganglionic fibers of both divisions release Ach. -All parasympathetic postganglionic fibers, and a few sympathetic postganglionic fibers (ex, those serving sweat glands and those serving smooth muscle of SOME blood vessels). 2.
Occur on all parasympathetic target effector cells of glands, smooth muscle & cardiac muscle. 2. A few in sympathetic target cells (sweat glands of skin and blood vessels of skeletal muscle) 3. Response may be either excitatory or inhibitory when ACh binding occurs, due to different subtypes of receptors.
The axons of somatic motor neurons synapse with skeletal muscles. All somatic motorneurons release the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) from their synaptic knobs. ACh isalways excitatory at synapses with skeletal muscle fibers; a synapse between a motor neuron anda muscle fiber is called a neuromuscular junction.
Sympathetic preganglionic fibers tend to be shorter than parasympathetic preganglionic fibers because sympathetic ganglia are often closer to the spinal cord than are the parasympathetic ganglia. Another major difference between the two ANS systems is divergence.
ANS, is a two neuron chain. The cell body of the first neuron (the preganglionic neuron) resides in the brain or spinal cord. Its axon (gthe preganglionic axon) synapses with the second motor neuron, the ganglionic neuron in the autonomic ganglion outside of the CNS.
Acetylcholine (ACh) and norepinephrine (NE) are the two major neurotransmitters of the ANS ACh is released by all preganglionic axons and all parasympathetic postganglionic axons Cholinergic fibers – ACh-releasing fibers. Neurotransmitters and Receptors.