Supplement. The phosphate group is important in living things in different ways. Firstly, it is an important structural component of nucleotide, which is the basic structural unit of DNA and RNA. Secondly, it is a component of energy-rich molecules, such as ATP. 
DNA and RNA are composed of nucleotides that are linked to one another in a chain by chemical bonds, called ester bonds, between the sugar base of one nucleotide and the phosphate group of the adjacent nucleotide. The sugar is the 3' end, and the phosphate is the 5' end of each nucleiotide. The phosphate group attached to the 5' carbon of the sugar on one nucleotide forms an ester bond with the free hydroxyl on the 3' carbon of the next nucleotide.
The presence of phosphate groups in nucleotides. A nucleotide consists of a sugar phosphate backbone and a nitrogenous base. More details on DNA structure is here. In DNA double helix, the two strands are joined together by hydrogen bond between nitrogenous bases. 
The sugar phosphate backbone is an important stuctural component of  DNA. It consists of 5-carbon deoxyribose sugars and phosphate  groups. These sugars are linked together … by a phosphodiester bond,  between carbon 4 of their chain, and a CH2 group that is attached  to a phosphate ion. 1 person found this useful. DNA is made up of a base (adenine, thymine, cytosine and guanine), a phosphate and a deoxyribose Sugar. The phosphate and the sugar form the backbone whi … le the bases form the links in betwee
The backbone of the DNA strand is made from alternating phosphate and sugar residues. The sugar in DNA is 2-deoxyribose, which is a pentose (five-carbon) sugar. The sugars are joined together by phosphate groups that form phosphodiester bonds between the third and fifth carbon atoms of adjacent sugar rings. 
The phosphate group on one nucleotide links to the 3' carbon atom on the sugar of another one. In the process, a molecule of water is lost-another condensation reaction. . . . and you can continue to add more nucleotides in the same way to build up the DNA chain. Exploring a DNA chain The sugars in the backbone The backbone of DNA is based on a repeated pattern of a sugar group and a phosphate group. The full name of DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, gives you the name of the sugar present-deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is a modified form of another sugar called ribose
Both ! Both are made of nucleotides: phosphate-ribose-nucleic acid. The strands are made by the linkage of phosphates on riboses: P-ribose-P-ribose-P-ribose-P-ribose-etc. … The difference between DNA and RNA is that the ribose molecule is dehydrated (DNA) or not (RNA). Say we have a DNA molecule that is 10 base pairs long (double stranded, so actually has 20 bases). The statement suggests we would have 20 phosphates in this molecule of DNA. However, we actually have 24. This is because the nucleotides situated at the 5' terminals of each strand have 3 phosphates rather than one.
The sugar-phosphate backbone forms the structural framework of nucleic acids, including DNA and RNA. This backbone is composed of alternating sugar and phosphate groups, and defines directionality of the molecule. The phosphate group attached to the 5' carbon of the sugar on one nucleotide forms an ester bond with the free hydroxyl on the 3' carbon of the next nucleotide.
In organic chemistry, a phosphate, or organophosphate, is an ester of phosphoric acid. Of the various phosphoric acids and phosphates, organic phosphates are important in biochemistry and biogeochemistry (ecology), and inorganic phosphates are mined to obtain phosphorus for use in agriculture and industry. 