Kung-fu was originated in china and over 200,000,000 people practice it today. Shaolin Kung Fu and its varioius derivative styles, which pretty much form the entire external style library of China with the exception of Shuia Jiao, although, Shuia Jiao was, and still is practiced in the Shaolin temple. Martial art is the practice of disciplines used in combat. While most people relate the term to the Asian techniques such as kung fu, karate and kendo, it also includes the us … e of swords, guns, artillery and any warfare related skill. 3 people found this useful.
Many Westerners believe that Kung Fu is a term which describes a single martial art, much like Taekwondo, Judo, or Aikido. In reality, Kung Fu is a general term which includes hundreds of styles of Chinese martial arts. Some examples of Kung Fu styles are Long Fist, Eagle Claw, and Taiji Quan. Kung Fu originated in a place called the Shaolin Temple, where monks practiced Kung Fu for health and self-defense during their quest for enlightenment. The first Shaolin temple was a Buddhist monastery built in 377 A.D. in the Henan province of China.
Share. 10 comments. It is common place for people to say that martial arts originated in the far east (China, Japan). On occasion, I have heard people come close to the correct point of origin by saying Greece. 
Benefits of Kung Fu. Back to Main Page. The term Kung Fu refers to the martial arts of China. Kung Fu originated in a place called the Shaolin Temple, where monks practiced Kung Fu for health and self-defense during their quest for enlightenment. The first Shaolin temple was a Buddhist monastery built in 377 A.D. in the Henan province of China. The Chinese people placed great value in the practice of Kung Fu because they felt it taught respect, patience, humility, and morality. Many Americans believe that Kung Fu is a term which describes a single martial art, much like Taekwondo, Judo, or Aikido.
The term Kung Fu refers to the martial arts of China. Kung Fu originated in a place called the Shaolin Temple, where monks practiced Kung Fu for health and self-defense during their quest for enlightenment. The first Shaolin temple was a Buddhist monastery built in 377 A.D. in the Henan province of China.
Chinese martial arts, which are called kung fu (/ˈkʊŋ ˈfuː/) (Chinese: 功夫; pinyin: gong fu) or wushu (武術), are a number of fighting styles that have developed over the centuries in China. Chinese martial arts can also be categorized by location, as in northern (北拳) and southern (南拳) as well, referring to what part of China the styles originated from, separated by the Yangtze River (Chang Jiang); Chinese martial arts may even be classified according to their province or city.
Besides the ancient martial arts heroes of China (Shaolin), Japan (samurai) and Korea (Hwarang), the ... Japanese Martial Arts History. Mongolian tribesmen introduced the Chinese to violent skull-bashing wrestling in 770 B.C., and consequently, they indirectly introduced the Koreans and Japanese to it, too. 
Additionally, Sun Lu Tang was among the last Chinese people, to receive a classical Chinese education. As to the other martial arts that had their origins in China, the styles in question would be Sambo, Judo, and Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. Martial art is the practice of disciplines used in combat. While most people relate the term to the Asian techniques such as kung fu, karate and kendo, it also includes the us … e of swords, guns, artillery and any warfare related skill. 3 people found this useful.
Kshatriya is a martial art that originated from India around 400 BC. Legend has it that the Bodhidharma came from India and brought the knowledge of the Indian martial arts with him. He taught it to the monks in China and it became the root of the Chinese martial arts including Kung Fu and Tai Chi Chuan. 
The Chinese equivalent of the term Chinese martial arts would be Zhongguo wushu (Chinese: 中國武術; pinyin: zhōngguo zhōngguó) (Wǔshu). Wǔshù Mandarin, in chinese the term (kung) fu 功夫 refers to any skill that is acquired through learning. or practice Chinese martial arts can also be categorized by location, as in northern (北拳) and southern (南拳) as well, referring to what part of China the styles originated from, separated by the Yangtze River (Chang Jiang); Chinese martial arts may even be classified according to their province or city.