An athletic director oversees sports programs at a high school or college. Find out about the education and experience you'll need to become an athletic director at each level, and get information on certifications. Schools offering Education-Sports Management degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
An athletic director is an administrator who works in a high school, college, or university. As an athletic director, some of your job duties may be to fundraise and budget for intercollegiate and intramural athletic activities. You may also be responsible for recruiting, managing publicity, and supervising coaches.
Athletic directors, or ADs, are high school or postsecondary administrators responsible for the development and supervision of campus athletic programs. Entry-level AD positions require at least a bachelor's degree, but most positions demand at least a master's and relevant experience.
If you intend to become a high school athletic director, you may wish to pursue an advanced degree in educational leadership. You might also consider a degree in physical education and health, sports medicine, sports management or a related field.
Educational Qualifications. To work as an athletic director in a high school, you may need a bachelor's degree in an area like education or physical education.
There are a few master’s degrees that can be applied to athletic directing, but the best one overall is athletic administration. A master’s degree in athletic administration will fully equip you for a future job as an athletic director. If you want to be a high school athletics director, a bachelors is also reasonable but less likely to get you a job (visit Education Portal for more information).
At the 4-year undergraduate degree level, students interested in becoming athletic directors can pursue a Bachelor of Science degree in Sports Administration or a related degree. Athletic director programs integrate so many business principles that some 4-year degree programs enable students to earn business minors.