Directions. 1  Heat the oven to 400 degrees F. Coat the beets with 2 tablespoons of the olive oil and wrap with foil. 2  Place beets in a medium roasting pan and bake until tender when pierced with a fork – about 45 minutes. 3  Unwrap the beets and let cool for 10 minutes. 1 Place beets in a medium roasting pan and bake until tender when pierced with a fork – about 45 minutes. 2  Unwrap the beets and let cool for 10 minutes. 3  Slip off the skins with a paring knife. 4  Cut them into quarters and toss with the remaining olive oil, salt, pepper and lemon juice.
Place the cut beets on a baking sheet and toss with the olive oil, thyme leaves, salt, and pepper. Roast for 35 to 40 minutes, turning once or twice with a spatula, until the beets are tender. Remove from the oven and immediately toss with the vinegar and orange juice. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve warm. 
1 Coat beets lightly with oil. 2  Wrap beets in aluminum foil, place on a baking sheet, and roast in the oven until cooked through, approximately 45 to 60 minutes. 3  Remove from the oven, let cool for 10 minutes, and then peel and slice into 1/4-inch thick slices. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. 2  Coat beets lightly with oil. 3  Wrap beets in aluminum foil, place on a baking sheet, and roast in the oven until cooked through, approximately 45 to 60 minutes. 4
1 Heat the oven to 400 degrees F. Coat the beets with 2 tablespoons of the olive oil and wrap with foil. 2  Place beets in a medium roasting pan and bake until tender when pierced with a fork – about 45 minutes. 3  Unwrap the beets and let cool for 10 minutes. 1 Place beets in a medium roasting pan and bake until tender when pierced with a fork – about 45 minutes. 2  Unwrap the beets and let cool for 10 minutes. 3  Slip off the skins with a paring knife. 4  Cut them into quarters and toss with the remaining olive oil, salt, pepper and lemon juice.
Place another large sheet of aluminum foil on top of the beets and crunch up the sides of the aluminum foil together to seal. Beets ready to roast in the oven. Place in oven and roast approximately 1 to 2 hours (depending on the size of your beets) or until tender and easily pierced with the tip of a paring knife. Remove from oven and take off the top foil. Set aside to cool enough to handle. When cool enough to handle, peel the skin off. Preparation: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place rack in middle of oven. Wash and scrub the whole beets to clean off any dirt. Leave the beet whole unless you have some extra large ones (if extra large, cut in half). Trim off the stems (leafy tops) and ends of the beets. Reserve the beet leaves for a recipe using them.
Cover and steam until beets are tender when pierced with a knife, 15 to 20 minutes. Place beets (peeled and cut into 1-inch pieces) in a large pot of boiling salted water. Reduce heat to a simmer and cook until beets are tender when pierced with a knife, 15 to 20 minutes; drain. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Place beets (peeled and cut into 1/2-inch wedges) on a large piece of foil on a baking sheet. Drizzle with oil and season with salt and pepper. Fold foil around beets and crimp ends to form a packet. Roast until beets are tender when pierced with a knife, 25 to 30 minutes
1 Baked Beets: Preheat oven to 400°. 2  Trim roots and stems to 1/2, do not cut beets further! ; 3 do not wash beets! , 4 if there is dirt that bothers you, wipe it off with a paper towel; moisture will cause the beets to steam and that is not what you want. Directions. 1 
1 Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. 2  Coat beets lightly with oil. 3  Wrap beets in aluminum foil, place on a baking sheet, and roast in the oven until cooked through, approximately 45 to 60 minutes. 4  Remove from the oven, let cool for 10 minutes, and then peel and slice into 1/4-inch thick slices. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. 2  Coat beets lightly with oil. 3  Wrap beets in aluminum foil, place on a baking sheet, and roast in the oven until cooked through, approximately 45 to 60 minutes.