Anteaters are found throughout the Southern Hemisphere but are more common in Africa, Asia and parts of Australia. The name anteater is given to any medium size insect eating mammal such as the giant anteater, the collared anteater, the silky anteater, the spiny anteater and the echidna which is native to Australia. The giant anteater also has a long, bushy tail which can be two to three feet long. The giant anteater\'s front feet have large claws, which are curled under when the giant anteater walks. Although the giant anteater has poor vision the giant anteater is able to detect food using its keen sense of smell.
Anteater is a common name for the four extant mammal species of the suborder Vermilingua (meaning worm tongue) commonly known for eating ants and termites. The individual species have other names in English and other languages. Together with the sloths, they are within the order Pilosa. Anteaters are specialized to feed on small insects. With each anteater species having its own insect preferences: small species are specialized on arboreal insects living on small branches, while large species can penetrate the hard covering of the nests of terrestrial insects.
An anteater is a placental mammal, unless one is referring to the spiny anteater of Australia and New Guinea, more correctly known as the echidna.Tthe echidna is a monotreme, … or egg-laying mammal. + 3 others found this useful. Homero Chavez. 
Spiny anteater is a nickname for the echidna. They are not anteaters at all, but monotremes, or egg-laying mammals. Echidnas are found throughout most of Australia, and are … highly adaptable to a wide range of environments, which has been one of the reasons why they are not threatened by habitat loss. Yes. The spiny anteater, more correctly known as the echidna, is a monotreme. This means it is an egg-laying mammal which feeds its young on mothers' milk, one of only two such types of animals in the world.
Pangolins (also referred to as scaly anteaters or trenggiling) are mammals of the order Pholidota. The one extant family, Manidae, has three genera, Manis which comprises four species living in Asia, Phataginus which comprises two species living in Africa, and Smutsia which comprises two species also living in Africa. 
There are four different species which vary greatly in size. The silky anteater is the size of a squirrel, while the giant anteater can reach 7 feet (2.1 meters) long from the tip of its snout to the end of its tail. Some anteaters, the tamandua and the silky anteater, ply their trade in the trees. They travel from branch to branch in search of tasty insects. Anteaters are generally solitary animals. Females have a single offspring once a year, which can sometimes be seen riding on its mother's back. Anteaters are not aggressive but they can be fierce. A cornered anteater will rear up on its hind legs, using its tail for balance, and lash out with dangerous claws. The giant anteater's claws are some four inches (ten centimeters) long, and the animal can fight off even a puma or jaguar
Anteater. Anteater is a common name for the four mammal species of the suborder Vermilingua (meaning worm tongue) commonly known for eating ants and termites. The individual species have other names in English and other languages. Together with the sloths, they compose the order Pilosa. Anteaters are mostly solitary mammals prepared to defend their 1.0- to 1.5-mi 2 (2.6- to 2.9-km 2) territories. Normally, they do not enter a territory of another anteater of the same sex, but males often enter the territory of associated females.
Anteater is a common name for the four mammal species of the suborder Vermilingua (meaning worm tongue) commonly known for eating ants and termites. Anteaters are mostly solitary mammals prepared to defend their 1.0- to 1.5-mi 2 (2.6- to 2.9-km 2) territories. Normally, they do not enter a territory of another anteater of the same sex, but males often enter the territory of associated females.