Below is a graphed comparison of the popularity of the girl name Alejandra and affiliated names. Popular related forms of Alejandra (#446 last year) are Alexandra (#92 last year) , Alexandria (#211) , Alessandra (#299) , Sandra (#800) , Alexander, Alejandrina and Alexandrea. Forms like Alexandrena are uncommon. Alejandra /ale-jan-dra/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name. Alejandra's root is Greek, and Alejandra means man's defender. Alejandra is an alternate spelling of Alexandra (Greek): Latinate feminine variation of Alexander. Alejandres is a common last name
Spanish Meaning: The name Alejandra is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Alejandra is: Defender of mankind. Feminine of Alexander. American Meaning: The name Alejandra is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Alejandra is: Defender of mankind. Feminine of Alexander.
Feminine form of ALEXANDER. In Greek mythology this was a Mycenaean epithet of the goddess Hera, and an alternate name of Cassandra. It was borne by several early Christian saints, and also by the wife of Nicholas II, the last czar of Russia. 
Alexandra /al-ex-an-dra/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced al-eks-AHN-dra. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Alexandra is man's defender. Latinate feminine form of Alexander. Seldom used in the English-speaking world before the 20th century. Became very popular in Britain after the Prince of Wales (later Edward VII) married the Danish Princess Alexandra in 1863.
Alejandra is a very prominent first name for females (#797 out of 4276, Top 19%) and a slightly less prominent last name for all people (#138741 out of 150436, Top 92%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Alejandra for girls. Alejandra was first listed in 1970-1979 and reached its top rank of #147 in the U.S. in the year 1993, and is presently at #446. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014). Alejandra /ale-jan-dra/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name. Alejandra's root is Greek, and Alejandra means man's defender. Alejandra is an alternate spelling of Alexandra (Greek): Latinate feminine variation of Alexander. Alejandres is a common last name
Alejandra, the Spanish form of this popular and multivaried name, has fans both in and outside the Latino community. Still, it has lost ground since its peak in the 1990s. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Alejandra. Alejandra is the Spanish feminine form for the Greek male name Alexander. Or more specifically, it’s the Spanish equivalent to Alexandra. Alexander is the Latin form of the Greek name “Alexandros”. The name’s meaning is interpreted from the Greek “alexein” which means “to defend” plus “andros” which translates to “man, warrior” in a relationship or possessive form. Hence the meaning: ‘defender of men or mankind’
Alejandra in Nautical Flags. Spanish names consist of one or more given names followed by TWO family names. Generally the first surname is the father's first surname and the second is the mother's first surname but this traditional order no longer required. Composite names are considered single unit first names and not first and second names. Parents give names that just appeal to them, honor relatives or saints, or are of traditional Spanish origin. Many Spanish given names honor the Virgin Mary. Girls are frequently given the name Maria or Maria followed by a suffix name and boys are sometimes given the name Maria as a middle name. Girls with Marian composite names may use the suffix portion of their name as their main informal name