An Administrator account with a blank password is a security risk. To better protect the system, the built-in Administrator account is disabled by default in all clean installations and upgrades of Windows Vista.
To enable the built-in Administrator's account by using the Local Users and Groups snap-in please follow these steps: 1. Open Local Users and Groups. You can do so by typing lusrmgr.msc in the Start search box or in the Run command and pressing ENTER.
Q: How do I install the Admin Pack? A: You do not install the Admin Pack, it is just a zip file containing a bunch of pdf files and useful resources from this guide to help you use commands on your server and access the item lists and classnames much easier.
A) Command Prompt. To enable the built-in Administrator's account by using the Command Prompt please follow these steps: 1. First you'll need to open a command prompt in administrator mode by right-clicking and choosing Run as administrator (or use the Ctrl+Shift+Enter shortcut from the search box). 2.
1 In the search results list, right-click Command Prompt, and then click Run as Administrator. 2  When you are prompted by User Account Control, click Continue. 3  At the command prompt, type net user administrator /active:yes, and then press Enter. 4  Type
3. In the Command Prompt window, type: net user. Note how the Administrator account is there, yet the new user account has not been yet created. 4. To set the Administrator's account password: net user *. 5. Then enter the required password and confirm it.
If you are struggling to log in as admin, head to the game ini file, remove all password-related commands, and then add the following: [AdminPassword] Password=ADMINPW ServerPassword=. Multiplayer Commands. In order to use the following, you will need to login as an admin using the above-mentioned Server Console method.
1 You can enable the built-in Administrator account during unattended installations by setting the AutoLogon setting to Administrator in the Microsoft-Windows-Shell-Setup component. 2  This will enable the built-in Administrator account, even if a password is not specified in the AdministratorPassword setting.