Restricted Records: No juvenile or sealed records released. The Falls Church Combined District Court includes a General District Court and a Juvenile and Domestic Relations District Court. Small claims phone is 703-248-5157; juvenile and domestic relations is 703-248-5099. Circuit Court-See Arlington County. F: n/a. See Arlington County. 
About the Office. The Sheriff is elected by the citizens of the City of Falls Church every 4 years. The Sheriff is referred to as a constitutional officer because his office is specifically established by the Constitution of Virginia. He is under the direction of the State Compensation Board. 
West Falls Church is a census-designated place (CDP) in Fairfax County, Virginia, United States. The population was 29,207 at the 2010 census. Before 2010, West Falls Church was officially named Jefferson. 
For statistical purposes, the U.S. Department of Commerce 's Bureau of Economic Analysis combines the City of Falls Church with Fairfax City and Fairfax County. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Falls Church has the lowest level of poverty of any independent city or county in the United States. Taking its name from The Falls Church, an 18th-century Anglican parish, Falls Church gained township status within Fairfax County in 1875. In 1948, it was incorporated as the City of Falls Church, an independent city with county-level governance status.
Falls Church. Discover things to do, places to stay, and where to dine in Falls Church. Use the links above to find area events, an interactive map of what’s nearby and great deals and packages. 1  Region: Northern Virginia. 2  Locality Falls Church City. 3  Visit Fairfax. 4  7927 Jones Branch Drive. 5  McLean, VA, 22102. ( 6 703) 790-0643. 7  Website
Therefore, the correct answer is that Falls Church (like the City of Roanoke or City of Fairfax or the other independent cities in VA) does not belong to any county in Virginia-neither Arlington nor Fairfax. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cit... Falls Church, VA is located in the county of Fairfax, a nice county, full of single family homes, towns and condos/apts, businesses, Gov't buildings, and restaurants.
Best Answer: There is a City of Falls Church, which is its own jurisdiction, and it NOT located in any county. The immediately surrounding areas outside the city limits are also called Falls Church, but are located in Fairfax County. The city of Falls Church is bordered by Fairfax County on the North, West, and South; and by Arlington County on the East. Falls Church, VA is located in the county of Fairfax, a nice county, full of single family homes, towns and condos/apts, businesses, Gov't buildings, and restaurants.
Our Fairfax-Falls Church CSB and the region's other four community services boards have launched a new website and a coordinated suicide prevention campaign – Reach Out. Find Hope. The effort will be led by the newly formed Suicide Prevention Alliance of Northern Virginia (SPAN). Read the news release. Call 703-324-9355 or email the conference coordinator with questions. Along with the Wellness and Recovery Committee, this conference is sponsored by the Fairfax-Falls Church Community Services Board, the Northern Virginia Mental Health Foundation, Inc ., Pathway Homes, Inc. and PRS, Inc.
As of the 2010 U.S. Census, the population was 12,332. Falls Church is included in the Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV Metropolitan Statistical Area. Taking its name from The Falls Church, an 18th-century Anglican parish, Falls Church gained township status within Fairfax County in 1875. In 1948, it was incorporated as the City of Falls Church, an independent city with county-level governance status. It is also referred to as Falls Church City