Background. Influenza, one of the most common infectious diseases, is a highly contagious airborne disease that occurs in seasonal epidemics and manifests as an acute febrile illness with variable degrees of systemic symptoms, ranging from mild fatigue to respiratory failure and death. For example, influenza A subtype H3N2 expresses hemagglutinin 3 and neuraminidase 2. The most common subtypes of human influenza virus identified to date contain only hemagglutinins 1, 2, and 3 and neuraminidases 1 and 2. H3N2 and H1N1 are the most common prevailing influenza A subtypes that infect humans.
An epidemic occurs when an infectious disease spreads rapidly to many people. For example, in 2003, the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic took the lives of nearly 800 people worldwide. A disease outbreak happens when a disease occurs in greater numbers than expected in a community or region or during a season. An outbreak may occur in one community or even extend to several countries. It can last from days to years. Sometimes a single case of a contagious disease is considered an outbreak.
Influenza, more commonly referred to as flu, impacts people of all ages. Influenza is a highly contagious viral infection of the nose, throat, and lungs that occurs most often in the late fall, winter, and early spring. It is a serious infection that affects between 5-20% of the US population annually. Common symptoms include fever (101ºF-102ºF), muscle/body aches, chills, tiredness, and sudden onset. Other symptoms may include a cough and/or sore throat and a runny or stuffy nose. Influenza frequently causes people to miss school and work but in some cases there are severe complications such as pneumonia.
Flu (Influenza). The flu is a common infectious disease caused by influenza (flu) viruses. The flu usually affects a person's breathing system. Seasonal flu generally occurs in the fall and winter and is caused by human influenza viruses. 1  Flu Frequently Asked Questions. [ 2  English ] [ Spanish ] [ Chinese ]. The usual signs and symptoms of the flu are cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, body aches, headache, chills, and feeling very tired. Most people also have a fever. Others may throw-up and have diarrhea.
Flu (Influenza) Overview. Influenza, or flu, is a respiratory infection caused by several flu viruses. Like the common cold, it infects the nose, throat, and lungs. Most people who get the flu get better within a week, although they may have a lingering cough and tire easily for a while longer. Seasonal flu refers to the flu outbreaks that occur each year, mainly in the late fall and winter. The disease spreads through communities, creating an epidemic. During the epidemic, the number of cases peaks in about three weeks and subsides after another three to four weeks.
The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosis. 
Influenza (Flu). The flu is an infectious disease that causes symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, headache, muscle aches, and chills. The annual flu vaccine can prevent most of the circulating influenza strains. Read about flu symptoms, and learn more about the flu shot». 
Influenza, commonly known as the flu , is an infectious disease caused by the influenza virus. Symptoms can be mild to severe. The most common symptoms include: a high fever, runny nose, sore throat, muscle pains, headache, coughing, and feeling tired. These symptoms typically begin two days after exposure to the virus and most last less than a week.