1 Report the fraud. 2  Send a copy of your police report or an IRS ID Theft Affidavit Form 14039 [PDF] and proof of your identity, such as a copy of your Social Security card, driver’s license or passport. 3  Update your files. 4  Record the dates you made calls or sent letters. 5  Keep copies of letters in your files. 1 Send a copy of your police report or an IRS ID Theft Affidavit Form 14039 [PDF] and proof of your identity, such as a copy of your Social Security card, driver’s license or passport. 2  Update your files. 3
1-978-247-9965. Since the IRS is accustomed to seeing these kinds of scams, the IRS actually has a dedicated division to dealing with cases where someone has stolen another person’s social security number and used it to file an income tax return. To deal with this issue of someone stealing your social security number or falsely filing taxes in your name, you should also put a credit freeze and a credit alert on your credit reports.
The way most people ultimately find out about someone else using their social security number is when an individual files his or her taxes, and gets a notice or letter from the IRS indicating that a tax return has already been filed or stating that you received wages from some employer that you never had. To deal with this issue of someone stealing your social security number or falsely filing taxes in your name, you should also put a credit freeze and a credit alert on your credit reports.
If you receive a notice from the IRS that leads you to believe someone may have used your social security number fraudulently, please notify the IRS immediately by responding to the name and number printed on the notice or letter. You can contact the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Identity Theft Hot line toll-free at 877-438-4338 if you suspect someone else is using your social security number, or to secure information on how to prevent identity theft.
An identity thief may use your Social Security number to get a tax refund or a job. Contact the IRS if they send you a notice saying their records show: 1  you were paid by an employer you don't know. 2  more than one tax return was filed using your Social Security number. 1 Send a copy of your police report or an IRS ID Theft Affidavit Form 14039 [PDF] and proof of your identity, such as a copy of your Social Security card, driver’s license or passport. 2  Update your files. 3  Record the dates you made calls or sent letters.
If Someone Claims Your Child as a Dependent. When you try to file your taxes, rightfully claiming your child as a dependent, you’ll likely receive a message from the IRS saying someone has already claimed the person with that Social Security number as a dependent and your return has been modified to exclude that person. Then you need to notify the IRS of the identity theft by filling out Form 14039, Identity Theft Affidavit on behalf of your child. “And then you’re just kind of waiting for a response from the IRS,” Callister said. “My guess is it will take about 6 months to get that resolved.”.
If you e-file and your identity has been stolen, your return will be rejected by the IRS. If you originally mailed your tax return, you will receive a notice in the mail from the IRS stating that someone has already filed using your Social Security number. If this happens to you, act fast. A criminal just needs your name, Social Security number and date of birth to file a tax return, and falsified W-2 information to attempt to claim a refund.
Report Abuse. The IRS won't tell you anything. What someone else puts on their tax return is their business. If in fact someone out there tries to use your son's social security number to claim him as a dependent then you're efile will be rejected, but you should still file by paper. Don't give up the deductions and credits that YOU are legally entitled to just because someone else has already claimed them illegally.