Associate's Degree in Nursing. An associate's degree in nursing (ADN) can be earned at both 2-year community colleges and 4-year learning institutions. ADN programs generally take two or more years to complete and include classroom education in addition to clinical training in a healthcare setting. Becoming a Registered Nurse. The most common educational paths to becoming a registered nurse (RN) are to obtain an associate's or bachelor's degree in nursing. Aspiring nurses may also consider 3-year diploma programs offered by hospitals, although these programs are much less available.
Only registered nurses can enter nurse practitioner programs. You can become an RN by completing a diploma program, which is a two-or three-year program from a hospital school of nursing, or by completing an associate degree program, which is a two-year program offered by many community colleges and some universities. Like all advanced practice nurses, NPs have an expanded role that includes the diagnosis and treatment of illness and injury, and they may prescribe medication. It can take as little as five years to become an NP through a direct-entry program, or as long as nine years to obtain a doctorate in nursing.
A: The answer to the question on how to become a nurse practitioner in 2 years needs explanation. Students can complete their certification in Nursing in 2 years from a community college and 4 years from a state school. However, if you are looking to complete this qualification in two years for any number of reasons, there is an option of distance learning programs. A: There is no exact answer to your question as there is more than one route that you can take in order to become a nurse. You can go for a four year bachelor's of science in nursing degree or a two year associate degree.
A master’s in nursing science usually takes four years for a full-time student. A doctoral program can take an additional three to four years. Many RNs who work full-time can only attend classes part-time, which may lengthen the time to an NP degree. Like all advanced practice nurses, NPs have an expanded role that includes the diagnosis and treatment of illness and injury, and they may prescribe medication. It can take as little as five years to become an NP through a direct-entry program, or as long as nine years to obtain a doctorate in nursing.
Nurses who have a master's degree in a different nursing background may opt to complete a post-master's graduate certificate program as a nurse practitioner. This can take five months to a year to complete, depending on the specialty. Aspiring nurse practitioners should choose their specialty before starting a graduate program. This is helpful because many graduate degree nurse practitioner programs encourage or require applicants to have at least 1-2 years of experience working as a registered nurse in their chosen
A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program. A: There is no exact answer to your question as there is more than one route that you can take in order to become a nurse. You can go for a four year bachelor's of science in nursing degree or a two year associate degree.
Master's degree programs for RNs with a bachelor's degree generally take 1-3 years to complete, depending on the school and the specialty. Graduates with a non-nursing bachelor's degree have the option of enrolling in a BSN-to-master's degree fast-track program. Aspiring nurse practitioners should choose their specialty before starting a graduate program. This is helpful because many graduate degree nurse practitioner programs encourage or require applicants to have at least 1-2 years of experience working as a registered nurse in their chosen
There is more than one way to become a nurse. There are two-year programs at community colleges and four-year programs at state schools. Most of these programs require certain classes in order to enter the program (called pre-requisites), if you dont have them already, youll have to take them first. 
about 4 to 6 years. i would say   You can become a registered nurse with a 2 year associate's degree or you can choose to get your bachelors degree an about 4 years. Both … degrees will qualify you to become an RN, but the bachelors degree will give you more opportunities for advancement later on. It can take 2-3 years and then you must pass your State's Nursing  exam. Check your local Community Colleges, Universities, Colleges  for day and night programs. Best to get … a BS in Nursing as well as  your RN certification.
It depends on what kind of nurse you want to be but it generally takes about 2-4 years. If you are interested in an Associates Degree in nursing, and you haven't any nursing experience previously, it normally takes 2 years to complete your RN (Registered Nurse) associates degree. It can take 2-3 years and then you must pass your State's Nursing  exam. Check your local Community Colleges, Universities, Colleges  for day and night programs. Best to get … a BS in Nursing as well as  your RN certification.