While we usually associate carrots with the color orange, carrots can actually be found in a host of other colors including white, yellow, red, or purple. In fact, purple, yellow and red carrots were the only color varieties of carrots to be cultivated before the 15th or 16th century. Thanks to that carrot-eating icon, Bugs Bunny, generations of American children have grown up knowing that carrots are good for your health. Packed with health-promoting beta carotene, they promote good vision, especially night vision, and help combat health-damaging free radical activity.
‘White Satin’ (F1, 70 days) produces crisp, white, 8” (20cm) carrots. A Nantes variety that adds a different color to the carrot rainbow. ‘Merida’ (F1, 240 days) is a storage-type Nantes variety bred for overwintering in the ground. Plant in September or October. Can be grown with no cover in Zones 6 and up. Cover with 6-12” (15-30cm) of straw in colder zones.
Carrots can be as small as two inches or as long as three feet, ranging in diameter from one-half of an inch to over two inches. Carrot roots have a crunchy texture and a sweet and minty aromatic taste, while the greens are fresh tasting and slightly bitter. Thanks to that carrot-eating icon, Bugs Bunny, generations of American children have grown up knowing that carrots are good for your health. Packed with health-promoting beta carotene, they promote good vision, especially night vision, and help combat health-damaging free radical activity.
The nutritional food value of carrots changes depending on whether you serve them cooked or raw. While raw carrots provide you with many of the same antioxidants found in cooked carrots, there is one major difference. Studies have found that cooked carrots actually contain more of the antioxidants than raw carrots do. 
Nantes varieties are usually the easiest carrots for home gardeners to grow. They produce sweet, crisp, 6-7” (15-18cm) cylindrical carrots, with blunt tips. Nantes carrots perform better in heavier, rockier soils where other carrot types twist and fork. A Nantes variety that adds a different color to the carrot rainbow. ‘Merida’ (F1, 240 days) is a storage-type Nantes variety bred for overwintering in the ground. Plant in September or October. Can be grown with no cover in Zones 6 and up. Cover with 6-12” (15-30cm) of straw in colder zones.
Carrots are the Food of the Week. This week we celebrate carrots while they are in the peak of their season when they are the freshest and most flavorful. Thanks to that carrot-eating icon, Bugs Bunny, generations of American children have grown up knowing that carrots are good for your health. Packed with health-promoting beta carotene, they promote good vision, especially night vision, and help combat health-damaging free radical activity.
Victoria (26 %) and Western Australia (21 %) together produce nearly half of Australia's carrots. Tasmania (17%), New South Wales (14 %) and South Australia (14 %) and are the next biggest producers. Two red carrots, two ounces of currants, quarter of a pound of sugar, one lemon, two eggs, and some short pastry. Grate the carrots into a basin, mix in the sugar, currants, grated rind of lemon, and two eggs. Line a plate with the pastry. Put on the mixture and bake in a moderate oven for an hour.
Culinary hints-cooking and eating Carrot. Steamed or raw carrots are tasty. Cook them in a small amount of water until nearly dry then add a pat of butter and teasp of brown sugar to glaze. They can be added to most casserole-type dishes. 03 Jun 15, dadpad (Australia-temperate climate). Branching of carrot is usually associated with excess nitrogen. Don't feed/fertilise the soil prior to planting carrots or during growth. If you havn't fertiised, the soil may naturally have too much nitrogen.
Nantes varieties have become, by far, the most important type of carrot grown in Australia. General aspects of carrot production in Australia. Carrots are commonly grown in rotation with other vegetable crops such as potatoes, lettuce, cauliflowers, broccoli and onions. Two red carrots, two ounces of currants, quarter of a pound of sugar, one lemon, two eggs, and some short pastry. Grate the carrots into a basin, mix in the sugar, currants, grated rind of lemon, and two eggs. Line a plate with the pastry. Put on the mixture and bake in a moderate oven for an hour.
Carrots were the fifth most valuable vegetable crop in Australia behind potatoes, mushrooms, tomatoes and onions in 2004 (ABS). According to ABS, 302,560 tonnes of carrots were produced from about 7,200 hectares in Australia in 2004 with a farmgate value of $ 150 million. Two red carrots, two ounces of currants, quarter of a pound of sugar, one lemon, two eggs, and some short pastry. Grate the carrots into a basin, mix in the sugar, currants, grated rind of lemon, and two eggs. Line a plate with the pastry. Put on the mixture and bake in a moderate oven for an hour.