Adam Smith has a prominent place in history as a philosopher and economist whose book the Wealth of Nations had a profound effect on the economic thinking of his time and became one of the most influential books ever written. 
Adam Smith, c.1770 © Smith was a hugely influential Scottish political economist and philosopher, best known for his book 'The Wealth of Nations'. Adam Smith's exact date of birth is unknown, but he was baptised on 5 June 1723. His father, a customs officer in Kirkcaldy, died before he was born. He studied at Glasgow and Oxford Universities
Early Years. While his exact date of birth isn’t known, Adam Smith’s baptism was recorded on June 5, 1723, in Kirkcaldy, Scotland. He attended the Burgh School, where he studied Latin, mathematics, history and writing. Smith entered the University of Glasgow when he was 14 and in 1740 went to Oxford. Scottish social philosopher and political economist Adam Smith wrote The Wealth of Nations and achieved the first comprehensive system of political economy.
W ith The Wealth of Nations Adam Smith installed himself as the leading expositor of economic thought. Currents of Adam Smith run through the works published by David Ricardo and Karl Marx in the nineteenth century, and by John Maynard Keynes and Milton Friedman in the twentieth. Adam Smith was born in a small village in Kirkcaldy, Scotland, where his widowed mother raised him. At age fourteen, as was the usual practice, he entered the University of Glasgow on scholarship. 
Adam Smith was an economist and philosopher who wrote what is considered the bible of capitalism, The Wealth of Nations, in which he details the first system of political economy. While his exact date of birth isn’t known, Adam Smith’s baptism was recorded on June 5, 1723, in Kirkcaldy, Scotland. Scottish social philosopher and political economist Adam Smith wrote The Wealth of Nations and achieved the first comprehensive
Adam Smith (16 June 1723 NS. – 17 July 1790) was a Scottish moral philosopher, pioneer of political economy, and a key figure in the Scottish Enlightenment. Smith is best known for two classic works: The Theory of Moral Sentiments (1759), and An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (1776). The latter, usually abbreviated as The Wealth of Nations, is considered his magnum opus and the first modern work of economics.
By Lisa Smith | Updated October 04, 2013 AAA |. Adam Smith is often touted as the world's first free-market capitalist. While that designation is probably a bit overstated, Smith's place in history as the father of modern economics and a major proponent of laissez-faire economic policies is quite secure. 
Adam Smith was a Scottish political economist and philosopher. He has become famous by his influential book The Wealth of Nations (1776). Smith was the son of the comptroller of the customs at Kirkcaldy, Fife, Scotland. The exact date of his birth is unknown. However, he was baptized at Kirkcaldy on June 5, 1723, his father having died some six months previously
Adam Smith. Inquiry into the nature and causes of the wealth of nations, 1922. Adam Smith (16 June 1723 – 17 July 1790) was a Scottish economist, who is called the Father of Modern Economics. His book, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, published in 1776, was very important.
Adam Smith was an 18th century philosopher of political and economic thought. His trailblazing 1776 book An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations —often referred to as simply The Wealth of Nations —is widely recognized as the first treatise on modern economics. 