Alma Mater Annandale High Sc... Fawn Hall was a secretary to Lt. Colonel Oliver North and a notable figure in the Iran-Contra affair, helping him shred confidential documents. Hall was born and raised in Annandale, Virginia, and graduated from Poe Middle School in 1973 and Annandale High School in 1977. … Read More. 'Although Lowe dated Melissa Gilbert, Nastassja Kinski, Demi Moore, Princess Stephanie of Monaco and Oliver North's former secretary Fawn Hall, among others, this is no salacious Hollywood kiss-and-tell. Lowe's acting skills were showcased in NBC's “The'.
Fawn Hall, former secretary to ousted National Security Council Lt. Col. Oliver North, speaks to reporters outside her lawyer’s office in Washington in 1987. 
Fawn Hall (born 1959) was a secretary to Lt. Colonel Oliver North and a notable figure in the Iran-Contra affair, helping him shred confidential documents. 1  1 Early life. After the Iran-Contra affair broke, Hall briefly went back to work for the Navy in 1987. After her congressional testimony in June 1987, she left government service and signed with the William Morris Agency and unsuccessfully pursued a media career in the Washington, D.C., area.
Fawn Hall, who was NSC official Oliver North’s secretary and who helped North destroy critical documents pertaining to the Iran-Contra affair (see November 21-23, 1986), admits lying to the FBI about the removal and destruction of documents. Green drops Hall and North off in a parking lot, and, as Hall is leaving the vehicle, Green asks her what she will say if asked about the shredding. Hall replies that she will say, “We shred every day.” Green responds, “Good.”. Entity Tags: Thomas Green, Fawn Hall, Oliver North, Robert Earl, Ronald Reagan.
Hall's mother, Wilma Hall, was secretary to Robert McFarlane, Reagan's national security advisor, North's superior and a major player in Iran-Contra. After the Iran-Contra affair broke, Hall briefly went back to work for the Navy in 1987. After her congressional testimony in June 1987, she left government service and signed with the William Morris Agency and unsuccessfully pursued a media career in the Washington, D.C., area.
After Oliver North is fired by President Reagan over his involvement in the Iran-Contra affair (see November 25, 1986), North’s secretary Fawn Hall (who was also fired) recalls that she has not finished shredding documents that North had ordered destroyed (see November 21-23, 1986). Green drops Hall and North off in a parking lot, and, as Hall is leaving the vehicle, Green asks her what she will say if asked about the shredding. Hall replies that she will say, “We shred every day.” Green responds, “Good.”. Entity Tags: Thomas Green, Fawn Hall, Oliver North, Robert Earl, Ronald Reagan.
WhatsApp. 09 Jun 1987, Washington, DC, USA --- Washington: Fawn Hall, former personal secretary to Lt. Col. Oliver North, listens to Plato Cacheris, her attorney, during the House and Senate Iran-Contra hearings 6/9. --- Image by © Bettmann/CORBIS. 4188063. Actor and author Rob Lowe is just 50
Oliver North’s secretary, Fawn Hall, learns that she is to be interviewed by the FBI over her knowledge of North’s illegal activities surrounding Iran-Contra (see November 21-25, 1986). Green drops Hall and North off in a parking lot, and, as Hall is leaving the vehicle, Green asks her what she will say if asked about the shredding. Hall replies that she will say, “We shred every day.” Green responds, “Good.”. Entity Tags: Thomas Green, Fawn Hall, Oliver North, Robert Earl, Ronald Reagan.