Graphic Design   Graphic Design is the arrangement of typography and images to communicate a message, feeling, opinion, thought, or idea. This can take any form, from pho … tography to 3D design. Graphic design is all about the dynamic that exists between what is being created and the audience, whereas … art hinges around the dynamic created between the creator and creation. Design is all about finding the solution to a problem.
A Graphic designer designs images, animation and other important graphics for a website while UX is the … total experience of a user related to web design, graphic design or any other technical field. Graphic design is all about the dynamic that exists between what is being created and the audience, whereas … art hinges around the dynamic created between the creator and creation. Design is all about finding the solution to a problem.
Swiss Design. Often referred to as the International Typographic Style or the International Style, the style of design that originated in Switzerland in the 1940s and 50s was the basis of much of the development of graphic design during the mid 20th century. 
Via CSA Design. Remington points out that William Addison Dwiggins coined the term graphic design in 1922, and he credits Leon Friend’s 1936 book “Graphic Design” as “the earliest comprehensive description” of the field. By the 1950s, Yale had started a graphic design program. The designers that helped shape graphic design in the United States borrowed heavily from Europe, and in many cases were immigrants, like Fortunato Depero and Alexey Brodovitch.
Graphic design is the art or profession of combining text, pictures, and ideas in advertisements, publication, or website. At its widest definition, it therefore includes the whole history of art, although painting and other aspects of the subject are more usually treated as art history. This graphic design of the Coca-Cola logo is the work of Frank Mason Robinson who created it in 1885. This old Logotype has been around more than a century, which could be regarded as a measure of its success.
Graphics (from Greek γραφικός, graphikos) are the production of visual statements on some surface, such as a wall, canvas, pottery, computer screen, paper, stone or landscape. It includes everything that relates to creation of signs, charts, logos, graphs, drawings, line art, symbols, geometric designs and so on. This graphic design of the Coca-Cola logo is the work of Frank Mason Robinson who created it in 1885. This old Logotype has been around more than a century, which could be regarded as a measure of its success.
Graphic design is the process of visual communication, and problem-solving through the use of type, space, image and color. The field is considered a subset of visual communication and communication design, but sometimes the term graphic design  is used interchangeably with these due to overlapping skills involved. A graphic designer may use a combination of typography, visual arts and page layout techniques to produce a final result. Graphic design often refers to both the process (designing) by which the communication is created and the products (designs) which are generated.
The name Graphic Design first appeared in print in the 1922 essay New Kind of Printing Calls for New Design by William Addison Dwiggins, an American book designer in the early 20th century. Raffe's Graphic Design, published in 1927, is considered to be the first book to use Graphic Design in its title. A graphic designer may use a combination of typography, visual arts and page layout techniques to produce a final result. Graphic design often refers to both the process (designing) by which the communication is created and the products (designs) which are generated.
Originate is a small graphic / web design studio based in Newcastle, NSW. Established in early 2001 our focus is on developing and implementing innovative design solutions that answer our clients needs. Our clients are based from many places including Newcastle, Central Coast, Northern NSW, Sydney and even interstate (Queensland & Victoria). Grounded in the disciplines of graphic design, our service includes logo design, corporate identity, packaging, website design, website construction, maintenance and site makeovers. We are passionate about design.