1 To make plain yogurt into Greek yogurt, strain overnight (10-12 hours) to 48 hours. 2  Check consistency every 12 hours and stop straining when you reach the consistency you like. 3  To make plain yogurt into rich, thick labneh cheese* (aka yogurt cheese), let is strain for 48-72 hours. 1 To make plain yogurt into rich, thick labneh cheese* (aka yogurt cheese), let is strain for 48-72 hours. 2  You can also strain kefir in the same way you strain yogurt; it will take a bit longer to thicken than yogurt because it has a higher liquid content.
Labneh – a yogurt cheese of middle eastern origin – is remarkably versatile and very easy to make at home. Alternately known as lebni, labni or laban, labneh is found all across the middle east where it’s popularly rolled into small balls, served with unrefined extra virgin olive oil and used as a condiment. Preparing this labneh recipe at home requires little more than fresh yogurt and a swath of cheesecloth. As a probiotic food, labneh carries with it all the benefits of yogurt. Foods rich in beneficial bacteria support proper immune system function, and the process of lactic acid fermentation increases the vitamin content of many foods.
Strained yogurt, Greek yogurt, yogurt cheese, labneh (Arabic: لبنة ‎ labnah), is yogurt which has been strained to remove its whey, resulting in a relatively thick consistency (between that of conventional yogurt and cheese), while preserving yogurt's distinctive, sour taste. In Syria and Lebanon, labneh is made by straining the liquid out of yogurt until it takes on a consistency similar to a soft cheese. It tastes like tart sour cream or heavy strained yogurt and is a common breakfast dip.
Like many types of yogurt, strained yogurt is often made from milk that has been enriched by boiling off some of its water content, and/or by adding extra butterfat and powdered milk. In Europe and North America, it is often made with low-fat or fat-free yogurt. In Syria and Lebanon, labneh is made by straining the liquid out of yogurt until it takes on a consistency similar to a soft cheese. It tastes like tart sour cream or heavy strained yogurt and is a common breakfast dip.
1 Line a large colander with a cheesecloth. 2  Stir salt into the yogurt, and pour the yogurt into the cheesecloth. 3  Set the colander in the sink or bowl to catch the liquid that drains off. 4  Leave to drain for 24 hours. 5  After draining for the 24 hours, transfer the resulting cheese to a bowl. 6  Stir in the olive oil. 1 Stir salt into the yogurt, and pour the yogurt into the cheesecloth. 2  Set the colander in the sink or bowl to catch the liquid that drains off. 3  Leave to drain for 24 hours. 4  After draining for the 24 hours, transfer the resulting cheese to a bowl. 5  Stir in the olive oil. 6  Store in a covered container in the refrigerator.
1 You’ll find that the yogurt is smooth and thick like cream cheese. 2  You can store the yogurt in small mason jars in the refrigerator or store them in olive oil with herbs. 3  To store labneh with olive oil, roll the labneh into small walnut-sized balls and gently place them into a mason jar with fresh herbs. As a probiotic food, labneh carries with it all the benefits of yogurt. Foods rich in beneficial bacteria support proper immune system function, and the process of lactic acid fermentation increases the vitamin content of many foods.
Labneh is a soft cheese from the Middle East made by draining yogurt that contains added salt. It is often formed into balls after it drains and then preserved in olive oil. It is consumed with a wide variety of foods (honey, olives, in a sandwich, on bread, etc.) depending on the region. 1 Spoon the Greek yogurt into the colander and then stir in the salt. 2  Cover the yogurt with the overlapping cheesecloth. 3  Place in the refrigerator for 24 to 48 hours to let the Greek yogurt drain. 4  Check the thickness after 24 hours.
Labneh is an Arab cheese made by draining yogurt so it loses most of its liquid. Use natural goat's milk yogurt, or, if unavailable, natural full-fat cow's milk yogurt, but not the Greek varieties. This recipe takes at least 48 hours to make. If this is all too much, you can buy labneh from Middle Eastern grocery stores. 1 1. Line a large bowl with a piece of cheesecloth or other fine cloth. 2  In another bowl, mix the yogurt and salt well. 3  Transfer the yogurt to the cheesecloth, pick up the edges of the cloth, and tie them together well to form a bundle. 4  hang this over your sink or over a large bowl and leave for 48 hours.
Directions. 1  In a large bowl stir the salt into the yoghurt. 2  Spoon the yoghurt in the center of a piece of doubled cheesecloth or soft cotton fabric (preferably undyed and immaculately clean). 3  Pull corners up and tie tightly. 4  Suspend from a stationary object over a bowl (to catch liquid). 