Appearance. Antimony is a semi-metal. In its metallic form it is silvery, hard and brittle. Uses. Antimony is used in the electronics industry to make some semiconductor devices, such as infrared detectors and diodes. It is alloyed with lead or other metals to improve their hardness and strength. A lead-antimony alloy is used in batteries. It is most often found as antimony(III) sulfide. It is extracted by roasting the antimony(III) sulfide to the oxide, and then reducing with carbon. Antimony can also be found as the native metal. China produces 88% of the world’s antimony.
1 a toxic metallic element that exists in two allotropic forms and occurs principally in stibnite. 2  The stable form is a brittle silvery-white crystalline metal that is added to alloys to increase their strength and hardness and is used in semiconductors. noun. 1 
1. (Elements & Compounds) a toxic metallic element that exists in two allotropic forms and occurs principally in stibnite. The stable form is a brittle silvery-white crystalline metal that is added to alloys to increase their strength and hardness and is used in semiconductors. Noun. 1. antimony-a metallic element having four allotropic forms; used in a wide variety of alloys; found in stibnite. atomic number 51, Sb. metal, metallic element-any of several chemical elements that are usually shiny solids that conduct heat or electricity and can be formed into sheets etc.
Symbol Sb A metallic element having many forms, the most common of which is a hard, very brittle, shiny, blue-white crystal. It is used in a wide variety of alloys, especially with lead in car batteries, and in making flameproofing compounds. Atomic number 51. See Periodic Table. Noun. 1. antimony-a metallic element having four allotropic forms; used in a wide variety of alloys; found in stibnite. atomic number 51, Sb. metal, metallic element-any of several chemical elements that are usually shiny solids that conduct heat or electricity and can be formed into sheets etc.
Antinomy (Greek ἀντί, anti, antí, against in opposition, to and, νόμος, nomos) nómos law literally means the, mutual incompatibility real, or apparent of. Two laws it is a term used in logic, and epistemology particularly in the Philosophy of Kant And. roberto unger In each antinomy, a thesis is contradicted by an antithesis. For example: in the First Antinomy, Kant proves the thesis that time must have a beginning by showing that if time had no beginning, then an infinity would have elapsed up until the present moment.
Medical Definition of ANTIMONY. : a trivalent and pentavalent metalloid element that is commonly metallic silvery white, crystalline, and brittle and is used especially in alloys and semiconductors and in medicine as a constituent of various antiprotozoal agents (as tartar emetic)—symbol Sb; see element table. 2. : a trivalent and pentavalent metalloid element that is commonly metallic silvery white, crystalline, and brittle and that is used especially in alloys, semiconductors, and flame-retardant substances — see element table. See antimony defined for English-language learners. See antimony defined for kids.
: stibnite. 2. : a trivalent and pentavalent metalloid element that is commonly metallic silvery white, crystalline, and brittle and that is used especially in alloys, semiconductors, and flame-retardant substances — see element table. See antimony defined for English-language learners. See antimony defined for kids.
Antinomy (Greek ἀντί, anti, antí, against in opposition, to and, νόμος, nomos) nómos law literally means the, mutual incompatibility real, or apparent of. two laws In each antinomy, a thesis is contradicted by an antithesis. For example: in the First Antinomy, Kant proves the thesis that time must have a beginning by showing that if time had no beginning, then an infinity would have elapsed up until the present moment.
Sources. An Antimony key to unlock medieval medicine. ...in the world in which the ancestors of modern medicine practised...religion and medicine can scarcely be teased apart... [3] Disease is a supernatural phenomenon governed by a hierarchy of vital powers...disharmony in these vital powers can cause illness. 