Generating Inbred Mice. Inbred Strains. A strain is defined as inbred when it has been mated brother x sister for 20 or more consecutive generations (F20). All offspring can be traced back to a single ancestral breeding pair in the 20th or subsequent generation. Such inbred strains are therefore isogenic (genetically identical). Substrains.
The Collaborative Cross is a large panel of new inbred mouse strains currently being developed through a community effort (Churchill et al. 2004). The CC addresses many shortcoming in available mouse strain resources, including small numbers of strains, limited genetic diversity, and a non-ideal population structure.
The International Mouse Strain Resource (IMSR) .. is a searchable online database of mouse strains and stocks available worldwide, including inbred, mutant, and genetically engineered mice. The goal of the IMSR is to assist the international scientific community in locating and obtaining mouse resources for research.
Inbred Mice. In science it can be important to have as much homogeneity as possible for certain experimental situations. In the case of mice, it is quite straightforward to develop genetically identical mice by inbreeding.
Inbred strains (also called inbred lines, or for animals linear animals) are individuals of a particular species which are nearly identical to each other in genotype due to long inbreeding.
These nomenclature changes affect the strain names for inbred 129 mice and all mice carrying transgenes, or spontaneous or targeted mutations on a 129 background. Many targeted mutations (e.g. , knockouts) are maintained on a mixture of C57BL/6 and a particular 129 strain.
Features of inbred mice. A strength of the laboratory mouse as a model system results from the availability of hundreds of inbred strains which harbor different characteristics, including some that are prone to develop specific types of cancers.
Except for the sex difference, mice of an inbred strain are as genetically alike as possible, being homozygous at virtually all of their loci. An inbred strain has a unique set of characteristics that sets it apart from all other inbred strains. Many traits do not vary from generation to generation.