Prasanna means Who is happy and brings happiness to people and also means clear, bright, tranquil in Sanskrit.This is a transcription of both the masculine form प्रसन्न (in Hinduism, one of the many names for the God Vishnu as presented in the Vishnu sahasranama) and having the feminine form प्रसन्ना. 
Prasanna is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Pra-sa-nna. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. 
[ 3 syll. pra-san-na, pr-asa-nna ] The baby girl name Prasanna is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced PRahSaeNNaa- †. Prasanna has its origins in the Sanskrit language and it is used largely in Indian. The meaning of Prasanna is 'serene'. Prasanna is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Prasanna include Parehan, Paryhan, Prakashini (Indian), Parsan, Parsin, Parson, Parsun, Parsyn, Prajna (Indian), and Premah.
Show similar names Show variant names. In Local: ప్రసన్నా; ಪ್ರಸನ್ನಾ; ਪ੍ਰਸਨ੍ਨਾ; ப்ரஸந்நா; પ્રસન્ના; പ്രസന്നാ; ; প্রসন্না; प्रसन्ना. Name Prasanna generally means Cheerful or Pleased or Happy, is of Sanskrit, Indian origin, Name Prasanna is a Unisex name, which means both Boy and Girl can have this name. Person with name Prasanna are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Prasanna belongs to rashi Kanya (Virgo) . » Definition of name 'Prasanna'. » Origin of name 'Prasanna'. » Gender of name 'Prasanna'. » Rashi of name 'Prasanna'. » Auspicious stones for 'Prasanna'. » Religion of name 'Prasanna'. » List of names similar to 'Prasanna'. » Variant of name 'Prasanna'.
Meaning of Indian name: Prasanna. Meaning of the name Prasanna is 'Happy'. Prasanna is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for males. The name number for Prasanna is '3'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Prasanna
[ 3 syll. pra-san-na, pr-asa-nna ] The baby boy name Prasanna is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is PRahSaeNNaa- †. Prasanna is used predominantly in the Indian language and it is derived from Sanskrit origins. The name is of the meaning serene. Prasanna is an unusual baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names
Meaning of Prasanna. Indian name. In Indian, the name Prasanna means-son of sage.The name Prasanna originated as an Indian name. The name Prasanna is most often used as a boy name or male name. Indian Name Meaning-son of sage. Origin-India