Sodium Benzoate. Sodium benzoate is a sodium salt that is commonly used as a chemical preservative, but can also occur naturally in some foods. This chemical is often found in processed foods such as sodas, fruit juices, vinegar, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, dyes or industrial settings. 
The safety of Benzyl Alcohol, Benzoic Acid, Sodium Benzoate, Calcium Benzoate, Potassium Benzoate and Benzyl Benzoate has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel. The CIR Expert Panel evaluated the scientific data and concluded that these ingredients were safe for use in cosmetic products. Benzyl Alcohol is an organic alcohol found in many fruits and teas. Benzyl Alcohol has a hydroxyl group (-OH), while the related compound, Benzoic Acid has a carboxyl group (-COOH). Sodium Benzoate, Calcium Benzoate and Potassium Benzoate are salts of Benzoic Acid.
Sodium benzoate dangers. Sodium benzoate is added to many foods with a pH 4.5 or lower such as pickles, catsup, and soft drinks. It is also added to mouthwashes, toothpastes, creams, lotions and other cosmetic products where a small percentage may be absorbed through the skin. Sodium benzoate is not found in foods unless it is added as a preservative. However, quite a number of foods contain benzoic acid. High concentrations of benzoic acid are found in some berries. Apples, plums, cinnamon, cloves and other foods including milk contain benzoic acid
CAS No.532-32-1. Sodium Benzoate is a food grade preservative generally regarded as safe (GRAS) worldwide. It is the inactive salt of benzoic acid. It is soluble in water where it converts to benzoic acid, its active form, at a low pH. Benzoic acid is very pH dependent. If Sodium Benzoate is used as a preservative, the pH of the finished product may need to be lowered enough to release the free acid for useful activity. Sodium Benzoate is often combined with Potassium Sorbate in low pH products to provide a synergistic preservative effect against yeast and mold.
Sodium benzoate is a preservative found in a variety of foods, beverages and condiments. While it is generally recognized as safe in small doses, sodium benzoate may cause harmful health effects under certain conditions. Learning the facts on sodium benzoate allows you to assess its risks and benefits more accurately. Uses. The most common source of sodium benzoate is food; manufacturers use it as a preservative to prevent spoilage. Acidic products like sauerkraut, jellies and jams, hot sauce and soda are the most common sources of sodium benzoate.
Sodium benzoate is a salt derived from benzoic acid and is used as a preservative in foods and cosmetics. Though benzoic acid is a more effective preservative, it isn’t very soluble in cold water compared to sodium benzoate which dissolves easily in water. Sodium benzoate is not found in foods unless it is added as a preservative. However, quite a number of foods contain benzoic acid. High concentrations of benzoic acid are found in some berries. Apples, plums, cinnamon, cloves and other foods including milk contain benzoic acid
Sodium Benzoate. Sodium Benzoate (NaC6H5CO2) is used as a preservative worldwide. It is generally Recognized As Safe (GRAS) throughout the world. The active part of the salt is benzoic acid, an organic acid (C6H5COOH) which is the actual preservative. The salt itself does not show any preservative activity. 
Functions: Sodium Benzoate is a salt of Benzoic Acid, found naturally in cranberries, prunes, plums, cinnamon, ripe cloves, and apples and used as a preservative in cosmetics and personal care product formulas as a fragrance ingredient, masking ingredient, anti-corrosive agent, and most frequently, as a preservative.
About SODIUM BENZOATE: Sodium benzoate is a preservative commonly used in foods, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics. 