SPARK 2014, in contrast, uses Ada 2012's built-in aspect syntax to express contracts, bringing them into the core of the language [2]. The main tool for SPARK 2014 (GNATprove) is based on the GNAT/GCC infrastructure, and re-uses almost the entirety of the GNAT Ada 2012 front-end. SPARK 2014 is a complete re-design of the language and supporting verification tools. The SPARK language consists of a well-defined subset of the Ada language that uses contracts to describe the specification of components in a form that is suitable for both static and dynamic verification.
Software engineers will find the SPARK 2014 language contains the powerful programming language features with which they are familiar, making the language easy to learn. SPARK 2014 converges its contract syntax for functional behaviour with that of Ada 2012. Programmers familiar with writing executable contracts for run-time assertion checking will find the same paradigm can be applied for writing contracts that can be verified statically (ie. SPARK 2014 uses the same syntax for contracts, meaning that a program written in Ada 2012 can be verified by the SPARK 2014 verification tools without having to rewrite the contracts. Subprograms in SPARK and in full Ada can now coexist more easily.
Spark SQL is a Spark module for structured data processing. It provides a programming abstraction called DataFrames and can also act as distributed SQL query engine. It enables unmodified Hadoop Hive queries to run up to 100x faster on existing deployments and data. Internet powerhouses such as Yahoo, Baidu, and Tencent, have eagerly deployed Spark at massive scale, collectively processing multiple petabytes of data on clusters of over 8,000 nodes. It has quickly become the largest open source community in big data, with over 750 contributors from 200+ organizations.
A fourth version of the SPARK language, SPARK 2014, based on Ada 2012, was released on April 30, 2014. SPARK 2014 is a complete re-design of the language and supporting verification tools. The SPARK language consists of a well-defined subset of the Ada language that uses contracts to describe the specification of components in a form that is suitable for both static and dynamic verification.
To build a Spark application, you need Spark and its dependencies in a single Java archive (JAR) file. Create this JAR in Spark's top-level directory with sbt as: The result is the file ./core/target/scala_2.8.1/Spark Core-assembly-0.3.jar). Add this file to your CLASSPATH so that it's accessible. sbt is a build tool for Scala and has been used with the Spark distribution. You perform the update and compile step in the mesos-spark-c86af80 subdirectory as: Note that you'll need to be connected to the Internet when you perform this step. When complete, run a quick test of Spark, as shown in Listing 7.
Spark 1.5.1 works with Java 7 and higher. If you are using Java 8, Spark supports lambda expressions for concisely writing functions, otherwise you can use the classes in the org.apache.spark.api.java.function package. To write a Spark application in Java, you need to add a dependency on Spark. The first thing a Spark program must do is to create a JavaSparkContext object, which tells Spark how to access a cluster. To create a SparkContext you first need to build a SparkConf object that contains information about your application.
To run Spark applications in Python, use the bin/spark-submit script located in the Spark directory. This script will load Spark’s Java/Scala libraries and allow you to submit applications to a cluster. You can also use bin/pyspark to launch an interactive Python shell. The first thing a Spark program must do is to create a JavaSparkContext object, which tells Spark how to access a cluster. To create a SparkContext you first need to build a SparkConf object that contains information about your application.
SPARK is a formally defined computer programming language based on the Ada programming language, intended for the development of high integrity software used in systems where predictable and highly reliable operation is essential. SPARK 2014 is a complete re-design of the language and supporting verification tools. The SPARK language consists of a well-defined subset of the Ada language that uses contracts to describe the specification of components in a form that is suitable for both static and dynamic verification.
Programming Spark applications is similar to other data flow languages that had previously been implemented on Hadoop. Code is written in a driver program which is lazily evaluated, and upon an action, the driver code is distributed across the cluster to be executed by workers on their partitions of the RDD. 1 Spark SQL: Provides APIs for interacting with Spark via the Apache Hive variant of SQL called Hive Query Language (HiveQL). 2  Every database table is represented as an RDD and Spark SQL queries are transformed into Spark operations.
SPARK 2014 offers the flexibility of configuring the language on a per-project basis-applying restrictions that allow the fine-tuning of the permitted language features as appropriate to coding standards or run-time environments. SPARK 2014 uses the same syntax for contracts, meaning that a program written in Ada 2012 can be verified by the SPARK 2014 verification tools without having to rewrite the contracts. Subprograms in SPARK and in full Ada can now coexist more easily.