Name Banu generally means Lady, is of Iranian (Persian), Indian, Turkish origin, Name Banu is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Muslim or Parsi or Hindu by religion. Name Banu belongs to rashi Vrushabh (Taurus) . Find qualities of Taurus (Vrushabh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Banu or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Vrushabh (Taurus) with other zodiac signs.
Banu (Persian: بانو ‎‎ banu), bânu is A persian name for girls used In, Iran, Afghanistan turkey And. India while In afghanistan it translates to , lady princess or . bride In india it roughly translates  to little . Sister In, turkey it is a popular female name that refers to the Original persian. word 1 Banu-yi Mısr (literally, Banu of Egypt), another name for Zulaikha, Potiphar 's wife. 2  Shahrbanu, eldest daughter of Yazdegerd III, the last Emperor of Sassanid Persia and mother of the fourth Shiite imam, Ali ibn Husayn.
Banu (Persian: بانو ‎‎ banu), bânu is A persian name for girls used In, Iran, Afghanistan turkey And. India while In afghanistan it translates to , lady princess or . bride In india it roughly translates  to little . sister 1 Banu-yi Mısr (literally, Banu of Egypt), another name for Zulaikha, Potiphar 's wife. 2  Shahrbanu, eldest daughter of Yazdegerd III, the last Emperor of Sassanid Persia and mother of the fourth Shiite imam, Ali ibn Husayn.
Islamic Names or Muslim Names. A Muslim child where ever born, and a person embracing Islam, used to be called in a new name, probably in Arabic. Names of prophets, names combined with Asmaul Husna (Names of God), names from history, and the traditional or modern names are being used in this regard.
Saira Bano. a popular Bollywood actress. She acted in many blockbusters from 1960-80.She is the daughter of Naseem Banu, and the granddaughter of a courtesan Chamiyan Bai, also known as Shamshad Begum (not to be confused with the famous playback singer of the yesteryear Shamshad Begum).
The meaning of saira is rare flower. The meaning of saira is happy. The meaning of saira is bird of love.Its another meaning is a plate of dimonds. In Hebrew Saira means Princess or Lady and in Afghan Bird Sairah means Traveller/wanderer. This name Saira means traveller in Arabic, In Hebrew it is a form of name Sarah means princess
Banu Hashim is one of the clans of the Quraysh tribe, and is an Adnanite tribe. It derives its name from Hashim ibn Abd Manaf, the great-grandfather of Muhammad, and along with the Banu Abd Shams, Banu Al-Muttalib, and Banu Nawfal clans comprises the Banu Abd al-Manaf section of the Quraysh. The House of Abdul-Muttalib of Banu Hashim comprised nobility in pre-Islamic Mecca. This makes Banu Hashim both an Ishmaelite and Israelite tribe. The Islamic prophet, Muhammad was a member of this Arab tribe; his great-grandfather was Hashim ibn Abd Manaf, for whom the tribe is named. Members of this clan are referred to as Hashemites, Hussaini or Hasani.
Naming a child with a beautiful and honourable name is very important in Islam. The Prophet always chose names with good and beautiful meanings, even telling people to change their names if they had unpleasant meanings.Give your child the best possible name. Names of prophets, names combined with Asmaul Husna (Names of God), names from history, and the traditional or modern names are being used in this regard.
List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. She acted in many blockbusters from 1960-80.She is the daughter of Naseem Banu, and the granddaughter of a courtesan Chamiyan Bai, also known as Shamshad Begum (not to be confused with the famous playback singer of the yesteryear Shamshad Begum).
List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. The meaning of saira is bird of love.Its another meaning is a plate of dimonds. In Hebrew Saira means Princess or Lady and in Afghan Bird Sairah means Traveller/wanderer.