Microeconomics Defined. Microeconomics is a branch of economics that studies the behavior of individuals and businesses and how decisions are made based on the allocation of limited resources. Simply put, it is the study of how we make decisions because we know we don't have all the money and time in the world to purchase and do everything. Let's review. Microeconomics is a key area of economics that studies the behavior of individuals and businesses and how decisions are made based on the allocation of limited resources, such as time and money.
Microeconomics is the analysis of the decisions made by individuals and groups, the factors that affect those decisions, and how those decisions affect others.. By Mike Moffatt. Like most definitions in economics, there are plenty of competing ideas and ways to explain the term microeconomics. As one of the two branches of the study of economics, an understanding of microeconomics and how it relates to the other branch, macroeconomics, is critical. Microeconomics is the analysis of the decisions made by individuals and groups, the factors that affect those decisions, and how those decisions affect others.. Microeconomic decisions by both small businesses and individuals are mainly motivated by cost and benefit considerations.
Microeconomics is how people deal with money, time, and resources. Microeconomics deals with the individual aspect of it while macroeconomics deals with aggregates at the level of an entire economy (e.g. total demand or total supply of goods in the national economy). 
Macroeconomics (from the Greek prefix makro-meaning large and economics) is a branch of economics dealing with the performance, structure, behavior, and decision-making of an economy as a whole, rather than individual markets. 
microeconomics. Study of the economic behavior of individual units of an economy (such as a person, household, firm, or industry) and not of the aggregate economy (which is the domain of macroeconomics). 
Microeconomics (from Greek prefix mikro-meaning small) is a branch of economics that studies the behavior of individuals and firms in making decisions regarding the allocation of limited resources. Typically, it applies to markets where goods or services are bought and sold. Microeconomics examines how these decisions and behaviors affect the supply and demand for goods and services, which determines prices, and how prices, in turn, determine the quantity supplied and quantity demanded of goods and services. This is in contrast to macroeconomics, which involves the sum total of economic activity, dealing with the issues of growth, inflation, and unemployment .. Microeconomics also deals with the effects of national economic policies (such as changing taxation levels) on the aforementioned aspects of the economy.
Definition of 'Microeconomics'. Tweet. Microeconomics is the study of individuals, households and firms' behavior in decision making and allocation of resources. Definition: Microeconomics is the study of individuals, households and firms' behavior in decision making and allocation of resources. It generally applies to markets of goods and services and deals with individual and economic issues. 
DEFINITION of 'Microeconomics'. The branch of economics that analyzes the market behavior of individual consumers and firms in an attempt to understand the decision-making process of firms and households. It is concerned with the interaction between individual buyers and sellers and the factors that influence the choices made by buyers and sellers. Microeconomics is generally the study of individuals and business decisions, macroeconomics looks at higher up country and ...