Classifying Organisms in their Kingdoms. The Kingdom Eubacteria consists of mostly heterotrophic bacteria that come in three main shapes. They are cocci (spherical), bacilli (rod shaped-as shown above), and spirilla (corkscrew shape). This kingdom is one of the two prokaryotic kingdoms. Bacteria in this kingdom have cell walls made without peptidoglycan. It is part of the Domain Bacteria.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Eubacteria is a domain, and has allot of examples! But, here are my favorite: Clostridium tetani, Clostridium botulinum, Clostridium perfringens, Bacillus antracis, Bacillus pneumoniae, Esherischia coli...... 
Kingdom Eubacteria Examples. Examples of eubacteria and details about characteristics of these organisms can be found below. Let us study them one by one. These eubacteria are 3-5 micrometers in length; their width is 1-1.2 micrometers. The eubacteria examples and their descriptions presented below should help find some useful information about their characteristics and infection caused by them.
Question: Does anyone knows... 3 examples of organisms belonging to the K Archaebacteria 5 examples of organisms belonging to the K Eubacteria 5 examples of organisms belonging to the K Fungi 5 examples of organisms belonging to the K Protista Please help me with this, i need it for my project. Thanks in advance :]].. Answers: Archaebacteria-unknown live in harsh conditions Eubacteria-blue-green algae, in the ocean Protista-paramecium Fungii-Mushrooms, ground Plantae-trees Animalia-human. Question: Hi, I'm in 5th grade. I have to list the six kingdoms and then give the genus and species of seven examples for each of the six kingdoms.
Two examples of eubacteria are Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus  anthracis. Some other examples of eubacteria are clostridium  tetani, clostridium botulinum, and Escherichia c … oli. 3 people found this useful. 
The eubacteria is a super class which groups different types of bacteria except for archaebacteria. Eubacteria are mostly unicellular in nature and their nucleus is not enclosed in any membrane. These heterotrophic microbes obtain nutrition from a variety of sources. Most eubacteria are pathogenic in nature. The eubacteria examples and their descriptions presented below should help find some useful information about their characteristics and infection caused by them.
Bacteria. Bacteria are very tiny organisms that fit into their own kingdom of life. There are currently six different kingdoms of life: Animals, Plants, Fungi, Protists, Eubacteria and Archaebacteria. The reason that bacteria fit into their own two kingdoms of classification is because of one unique characteristic. 