The term was popularized by the German scientist Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, who in 1795 divided the human species into five races: Caucasian, the white race; Mongolian, the yellow race; Malayan, the brown race; Ethiopian, the black race; and American, the red race. (Ararat is still the name of the largest mountain in Turkey.) In Greek mythology, Zeus chained Prometheus to a rock in the Caucasus. Blumenbach considered the skulls of the Georgians to be the epitome of the white race, and he named the first class of humans after the country's home in the Caucasus Mountains.
Meiners' term was given wider circulation in the 1790s by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, a German professor of medicine and member of the British Royal Society, who is considered one of the founders of the discipline of anthropology. The United States National Library of Medicine often used the term Caucasian as a race in the past. However, it later discontinued such usage in favor of the more narrow geographical term European, which traditionally only applied to a subset of Caucasoids.
The term Caucasian race was coined by the German philosopher Christoph Meiners in his The Outline of History of Mankind (1785). The United States National Library of Medicine often used the term Caucasian as a race in the past. However, it later discontinued such usage in favor of the more narrow geographical term European, which traditionally only applied to a subset of Caucasoids.
White people is a racial classification specifier, depending on context used for people of Caucasian ancestry. The contemporary usage of white people or a white race as a large group of (mainly European) populations contrasting with  black ,  colored  or non-white originates in the 17th century. The term white race or white people entered the major European languages in the later 17th century, originating with the racialization of slavery at the time, in the context of the Atlantic slave trade and the enslavement of native peoples in the Spanish Empire.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Here are a few notes on the origin of the word 'Caucasia': - Caucasian means a native or person from Caucasia. - Because the natives from Caucasia were mainly had lighter and fairer skin tones, they were called 'Caucasians', which basically meant white people. - The word is usually restricted to mainly europeans. - The whole concept of a Caucasian Race/'Varietas Caucasia' was developed during the 1800's by a german scientist called Johann Friedrich Blumenbach. He named it 'Caucasian' based on the region of Caucasia. - The region of Caucasia is mainly around the whole europe.
honky. a derogatory term for a Caucasian person. there are three main theories for the origin of the word: 1. the word originated from the practice of white males wishing to hire African-American prostitutes in the 1920's, and going to the appropriate part of town while honking their car horns to attract the whores. 2. the term comes from the word honky-tonk, which was used as early as 1875 in reference to wild saloons in the Old West. Patrons of such disreputable establishments were referred to as honkies, not intended as a racial slur but still a disparaging term.
For other uses, see Ethnic groups in Europe. The Caucasian race (also Caucasoid or occasionally Europid) is a taxon historically used to describe the physical or biological type of some or all of the populations of Europe, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, Western Asia, Central Asia, and South Asia. The United States National Library of Medicine often used the term Caucasian as a race in the past. However, it later discontinued such usage in favor of the more narrow geographical term European, which traditionally only applied to a subset of Caucasoids.
it’s not just semantics. you use the term american indian, lest confusion ensue (also, asian indian). the use of the term caucasian means that you have to relabel people from the caucasus something else, or just avoid using that term for them (which is what i basically did to not confuse american readers). 
AS a racial classification, the term Caucasian has many flaws, dating as it does from a time when the study of race was based on skull measurements and travel diaries. It has long been entirely unmoored from its geographical reference point, the Caucasus region. 