1 CCCP Combined Community Codec Pack is one of the most comprehensive codec packages you can download. 2  CCCP was put together by users who like to share and watch movies online, and the codecs they've chosen are designed for 99% of the video formats you will experience as a P2P downloader. It also stands for compressor/decompressor and code/decode. All of these variations mean the same thing: a codec is a computer program that both shrinks large movie files, and makes them playable on your computer. Codec programs are required for your media player to play your downloaded music and movies.
ANS: AVI is not in itself a codec; it is a common  container format  that many different codecs can use. As there are hundreds of codecs out there are compatible with AVI content, it can get very confusing which codec(s) you will need to play your video files. It also stands for compressor/decompressor and code/decode. All of these variations mean the same thing: a codec is a computer program that both shrinks large movie files, and makes them playable on your computer. Codec programs are required for your media player to play your downloaded music and movies.
In the context of video compression, codec is a concatenation of encoder and decoder; a device that can only compress is typically called an encoder, and one that can only decompress is known as a decoder. The format of the compressed data usually conforms to a standard video compression specification. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A video codec is an electronic circuit or software that compresses or decompresses digital video, thus converting raw (uncompressed) digital video to a compressed format or vice-versa.
The easiest option is to download codec packs. Codec packs are collections of codecs gathered in single large files. There is much debate over whether it is necessary to get a large group of codec files, but it certainly is the easiest and least-frustrating option for new downloaders. It also stands for compressor/decompressor and code/decode. All of these variations mean the same thing: a codec is a computer program that both shrinks large movie files, and makes them playable on your computer. Codec programs are required for your media player to play your downloaded music and movies.
Codec. 1. Short for COmpression / DECompression, a codec is an algorithm or special computer program that reduces the number of bytes consumed by large files. Codecs are often used with videos distributed over the Internet; allowing what would normally be a very large video file to be much smaller. One of our most recommended codec pack is the CCCP also known as the Combined Community Codec Pack you can find this download on their web page. Also, Free-Codecs.com is another great collection under Codec Pack All in 1. Finally, a great list of hundreds of different codecs is found on fourcc.
2) The term codec is also an acronym that stands for  co mpression/ dec ompression.. A codec is an algorithm, or specialized computer program, that reduces the number of bytes consumed by large files and programs. In order to minimize the amount of storage space required for a complicated file, such as a video, compression is used. Compression works by eliminating redundancies in data. 1) In communications engineering, the term codec is used in reference to integrated circuits, or chip s that perform data conversion. In this context, the term is an acronym for  co der/ dec oder.. This type of codec combines analog-to-digital conversion and digital-to-analog conversion functions in a single chip
In the mid 20th century, a codec was a hardware device that coded analog signals into digital form using pulse-code modulation (PCM). Late in the century the name was also applied to a class of software for converting between different digital signal formats, including compander functions. An audio codec converts analog audio signals into digital signals for transmission or storage. A receiving device then converts the digital signals back to analog using an audio decompressor, for playback. An example of this is the codecs used in the sound cards of personal computers.
A codec is a device or computer program capable of encoding or decoding a digital data stream or signal. Codec is a portmanteau of coder-decoder or, less commonly, compressor-decompressor. A codec encodes a data stream or signal for transmission, storage or encryption, or decodes it for playback or editing. An audio codec converts analog audio signals into digital signals for transmission or storage. A receiving device then converts the digital signals back to analog using an audio decompressor, for playback. An example of this is the codecs used in the sound cards of personal computers.