Peritonsillar abscess, the most common deep infection of the head and neck that occurs in adults, is typically formed by a combination of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. The presenting symptoms include fever, throat pain, and trismus. Peritonsillar abscess is most common in persons 20 to 40 years of age. Young children are seldom affected unless they are immuno-compromised, but the infection can cause significant airway obstruction in children. 1, 2 This infection affects males and females equally.
Tonsillitis is the inflammation of the glands of the throat (the tonsils), and is most commonly caused by either a viral or a bacterial infection. The tonsils, which are located at the back of the mouth and the top of the throat, have the task of filtering out germs and bacteria to prevent infection in the body. Tonsillitis is one of the major causes of pain in the throat area; this throat pain can even spread to surrounding body parts such as the ears, the eyes, and the whole head, and can leave a person feeling very sick and unable to do normal daily activities.
1 Group A streptococcus. 2  This bacteria can cause strep throat, scarlet fever, and rheumatic fever. 3  If strep throat is likely, a test called a rapid strep test (or quick strep) may be done before a throat culture. 4  With a rapid strep test, results are ready in 10 minutes instead of 1 to 2 days with a throat culture. A throat culture is a test to check for a bacterial or fungal infection in the throat. A sample swabbed from the throat is put in a special cup (culture) that allows infections to grow. If an infection grows, the culture is positive.
1 Children and adults are not contagious 24 hours after starting antibiotic treatment for strep throat caused by bacteria. 2  The child or adult can return to school (day care) or work after this period of time while the person is taking antibiotics. Tonsillitis Medical and Surgical Treatment. Because most sore throats are caused by viruses, antibiotics are not routinely needed.
Bacterial or viral infections can cause tonsillitis, and the most common viruses associated to tonsillitis are the influenza, rhinovirus, adenovirus, coronavirus, and respiratory syncytial virus. Tonsillitis can also be caused by the herpes simplex virus,cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, or HIV. Tonsillitis is one of the major causes of pain in the throat area; this throat pain can even spread to surrounding body parts such as the ears, the eyes, and the whole head, and can leave a person feeling very sick and unable to do normal daily activities.
Also, the doctor will check for a fever and feel the lymph nodes, which will be enlarged in the presence of infection. Many types of bacteria and, more frequently, viruses can cause a sore throat, so to determine what is causing the infection a physician will perform a strep test, according to the CDC. Strep throat (also known as pharyngitis or streptococcal pharyngitis) is a bacterial infection. Two types of bacteria can cause strep throat: Group A (also known as Streptococcus pyogenes) and Group B. Each strain of bacteria can result in different complications.
A throat culture may be done to: 1  Find the cause of a sore throat. 2  Most sore throat infections are caused by a virus. 3  A throat culture shows the difference between a bacterial infection and a viral infection. 4  Finding the organism that is causing the infection can guide treatment. A throat culture is a test to check for a bacterial or fungal infection in the throat. A sample swabbed from the throat is put in a special cup (culture) that allows infections to grow. If an infection grows, the culture is positive.
Bacteria: Strep throat is an infection caused by a particular strain of streptococcus bacteria. This infection can also damage the heart valves (rheumatic fever) and kidneys (nephritis), cause scarlet fever, tonsillitis, pneumonia, sinusitis, and ear infections. 
Inflamed Tonsils Causes. A bacteria and virus can be the root cause of this condition. Tonsillitis can be transmitted through the direct contact from one person to another. The bacteria or virus can be transmitted through a droplet form. But this condition is usually caused by a viral infection. Inflamed Tonsils Treatment. The medical treatment for tonsillitis is to provide antibiotics such as penicillin. Even though the cause of this condition can be viral, the use of antibiotics is provided. Penicillin is the most commonly drug given to patients. This can be given to patients as a single-dose injection.
1 Find the cause of a sore throat. 2  Most sore throat infections are caused by a virus. 3  A throat culture shows the difference between a bacterial infection and a viral infection. 4  Finding the organism that is causing the infection can guide treatment. A throat culture is a test to check for a bacterial or fungal infection in the throat. A sample swabbed from the throat is put in a special cup (culture) that allows infections to grow. If an infection grows, the culture is positive.