Find the best price for the composite adapter or the component adapter. Connect the iPad with a VGA adapter. By using Apple's VGA adapter, you can hook your iPad up to a television equipped with an VGA input, a computer monitor, a projector and other display devices that support VGA.
Stream everything on your iPad running iOS 7. If you’d rather stream your whole iPad screen to the Apple TV, swipe up from the button of the screen on your iPad to open the Control Center. Tap the AirPlay button and select your Apple TV from the menu that appears. Your iPad screen will now appear on your TV. If you’d rather just stream a specific video or song to your TV, start the media on your iPad and then tap the AirPlay button. This button is located next to the “Next” button on your playback controls. Pressing the button will send the video or song to your Apple TV screen.
Connect your iPhone or iPad and TV with the cable, and switch the TV's input to the port the cable is plugged into. Your TV will become a duplicate of the connected device's screen. With the iPad 2 or later and iPhone 4s or later, you'll get that in 1080p HD. Here's how to connect your Apple phone or tablet to almost any HDTV. Sometimes even a 10-inch screen is just too small. Fortunately, it's easy enough to connect your iPhone or iPad to any recent HDTV for a bigger-screen media experience. Here's our guide, from the simplest to the most complex solutions.
Save. You can connect your iPad to an HDTV in just a few simple steps. Connecting an iPad to an HDTV will allow you to show movies or pictures on the TV. As an added benefit, starting with the iPad 2, you can use the HDTV as a mirror monitor, allowing the TV to show exactly what is on the iPad's screen. 
Connect your iPhone or iPad and your HDTV to the same home network. Open the ArkMC app on your device. Tap the Arkuda DMS option, then choose music, photos, or videos. On the Select Media Renderer screen, choose your TV. If your TV doesn't show up on the list, you may need to activate its DLNA function. Here's how to connect your Apple phone or tablet to almost any HDTV. Sometimes even a 10-inch screen is just too small. Fortunately, it's easy enough to connect your iPhone or iPad to any recent HDTV for a bigger-screen media experience. Here's our guide, from the simplest to the most complex solutions.
4. Start the video you want to stream. You can stream videos directly to your Apple TV by opening the video on your iPad and then tapping the AirPlay button. This button is located next to the Next button on the playback controls. 1  You can control playback during streaming by using the playback buttons that appear on the iPad screen. If you'd rather stream everything displayed on your iPad screen instead of just specific videos, you can turn on screen sharing in the Control Center. 1  If you are using iOS 7, swipe up from the bottom of the Home Screen to open the Control Center, and then tap the AirPlay button and select your Apple TV from the menu.
Now you can play your iTunes videos, Netflix movies, or whatever else you want on your TV. Connect With Apple TV. Maybe you don't want a pesky wire between your iPhone and your TV. The easiest way to connect wirelessly is with Apple's own media extender, Apple TV. Here's how to connect your Apple phone or tablet to almost any HDTV. Sometimes even a 10-inch screen is just too small. Fortunately, it's easy enough to connect your iPhone or iPad to any recent HDTV for a bigger-screen media experience. Here's our guide, from the simplest to the most complex solutions.
In order to stream your iPad to the TV screen, your iPad and Apple TV need to be on the same network. 4. Stream specific content to your TV. If you’d rather just stream a specific video or song to your TV, start the media on your iPad and then tap the AirPlay button. This button is located next to the “Next” button on your playback controls. Pressing the button will send the video or song to your Apple TV screen.
You can actually do watch movies from your iPad on your tv ! Either download them from iTunes or if you have the dropbox folder installed on your iPad, you can upload movies in your dropbox from your computer's folder and watch them on your iPad. However only movies *.mp4 format are readable with the iPad. 
With most iOS devices, the best way to get content on your TV screen is with mirroring. This puts your entire iDevice's display on the TV, giving you a big-screen view of everything happening on your phone. To do that, connect your iPhone or iPad to the same Wi-Fi network as your Apple TV. Then, swipe up from the bottom edge of the screen to launch the quick settings pane, tap AirPlay and select your Apple TV. How to connect an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch to your TV. Connecting your iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch to your TV is simple, but you have to select the right cables first.