From Fort Lauderdale/Hollywood International Airport (FLL). If you are flying into Fort Lauderdale and want to go straight to your cruise ship there are a few options for you. The airport is very close to the cruise terminal via U.S. 1. From Fort Lauderdale International Airport (5 miles): 1  Exit the airport and follow signs for I-595 East/Port Everglades. 2  Continue to the last exit on I-595 East and follow the signs to 
How far is Ft Lauderdale airport to Miami port. Just checking out my options. We are booking the Destiny for the Jan 8th, 2009 sailing. Need to find out how far the Ft. Lauderdale airport is from the port in Miami.
From Fort Lauderdale International Airport (5 miles): 1  Exit the airport and follow signs for I-595 East/Port Everglades. 2  This will automatically take you to the Port Everglades security entrance. 3  From there, follow the directional signs for your designated ship's pier terminal. From Fort Lauderdale International Airport (5 miles): 1  Exit the airport and follow signs for I-595 East/Port Everglades. 2  Continue to the last exit on I-595 East and follow the signs to 
Join Date: Feb 2009. Posts: 28. You can call the Fort Lauderdale taxi company and they can give you the exact cost of taking a taxi from the airport to the port. They quoted us $10.00 for the ride and that is not per person. I can't find their phone number, but try calling the Ft Lauderdale Convention and Visitors Bureau, 954-765-4466. Anyone know how far it is from the Fort Lauderdale Airport to the port? Also, if I book my airfare separately, is a taxi the best way to go cost wise?
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I have flown into the airport in Ft. Lauderdale and then went to the cruise terminal in Ft Lauderdale to board my cruise ship. I assume that's what you mean as well with your question and not the Miami cruise terminal from the Ft Lauderdale airport. The price that you quote from the cruise line is what you'd pay to go from FLL to the Miami cruise port. I don't believe that $20 is all a taxi will charge. Considering the airport is over 30 miles from Miami cruise terminal.
If you're driving from outside of Fort Lauderdale (elsewhere in Florida or out of state), you can get easily to the main entrance of Port Everglades via U.S.1, I-95, State Road 7 (441), Florida's Turnpike, Sawgrass Expressway and I-75. From Fort Lauderdale International Airport (5 miles): 1  Exit the airport and follow signs for I-595 East/Port Everglades. 2  Continue to the last exit on I-595 East and follow the signs to 
Port of Miami and Miami Airport are only 18 miles apart. Fort Lauderdale Airport is only 10 Miles from Broward convention center and Cruise Port Everglades. Miami Beach Convention Center is only 35 miles from Fort Lauderdale Airport. Find all the pre and post Fort Lauderdale hotels near the cruise ports or airports. Fort Lauderdale Shuttle offers a round trip Shuttle to and from The Airport, Port Everglades and local Hotels near the Airport Prices starting as low as $6.00 per person each way with a group of 5 people or more.
Miami Cruise Transportation is pleased to offer private transportation between Fort Lauderdale Airport and Port of Miami Cruise Port Terminal. This service is a perfect way for you and your family or group to get from the airport or hotel to Port of Miami. 
The Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport is just minutes away from Port Everglades on U.S. 1 and is served by most major airlines. Although it's a short distance, we suggest you allow at least 45 minutes between flight arrival and cruise check-in time to claim luggage and fill out forms at the terminal. The Miami International Airport is 30 minutes south of Port Everglades via I-95. The state-of-the art Rental Car Center at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport (FLL) house a large number of rental car companies in one location with shared shuttle bus service for Port Everglades.
Fort Lauderdale Cruise Port Address: 1850 Eller Dr., Fort Lauderdale, FL 33316. Port Everglades is located 10 minutes by cab or shuttle from the Fort Lauderdale Airport and about 10 minutes from downtown. One of the cruise port's entrances is on the 17th Street Causeway, the yachting hub of Fort Lauderdale with several restaurants and hotels. By Shuttle: Cruise lines typically provide shuttle service between Port Everglades and the two airports that serve Fort Lauderdale (Miami and Fort Lauderdale), but you must sign up -- and pay for them -- in advance.