This was the first car designed entirely for rallying from scratch, and boy was it good. It won the World Rally Championship a total of 4 times and the European Rally Championship three times. Granted, other cars like the Fiat 131 Abarth did win more championships and were competitive with this car, but look at it. 
The first motor car in central Europe and one of the first factory-made cars in the world, was produced by Czech company Nesselsdorfer Wagenbau (later renamed to Tatra) in 1897, the Praesident präsident. automobil Cars did not become widely available until the early 20th century. One of the first cars that was accessible to the masses was the 1908 Model T, an American car manufactured by the Ford Motor Company.
Running by February, 1893 and ready for road trials by September, 1893 the car built by Charles and Frank Duryea, brothers, was the first gasoline powered car in America. The first run on public roads was made on September 21, 1893 in Springfield, MA. Henry Ford had an engine running by 1893 but it was 1896 before he built his first car. By the end of the year Ford had sold his first car, which he called a Quadracycle, for $200 and used the money to build another one.
The Audi Quattro is a road and rally car, produced by the German automobile manufacturer Audi, part of the Volkswagen Group. It was first shown at the 1980 Geneva Motor Show on 3 March. Production of the original version continued through 1991. The Audi Quattro was the first rally car to take advantage of the then-recently changed rules which allowed the use of four-wheel drive in competition racing. It won competition after competition for the next two years.
Subaru initially competed in the rally championships in 1980 with the Subaru Leone. The Subaru Leone was also known of as the L-series, the Subaru 1800 and the Subaru Sedan depending on the particular market. The specific models used in the initial rally entries were the Leone coupe, the DL sedan and the RX Turbo sedan with the Leone coupe being the first car used. 
Karl Benz is the god father of all gasoline powered cars. He is widely recognized by the automobile history today. Before this, the first steam powered car was invented by Ferdinand Verbiest and it is said that the first ever car was made in China. Here by we have compile a list below for easier reading.
The first diesel car invented was also the first biofuel car. Rudolf Diesel showed off the first Diesel engine in Augsburg, Germany in 1893 and it ran on peanut oil. In 1892 Diesel applied for a patent in Germany and in 1898, he was granted a U. S. patent as well.
In 1769, the very first self-propelled road vehicle was a military tractor invented by French engineer and mechanic, Nicolas Joseph Cugnot (1725 - 1804). Cugnot used a steam e … ngine to power his vehicle, built under his instructions at the Paris Arsenal by mechanic Brezin. In 1769 a French inventor named Cugnot made a steam powered military tractor. Benz of Germany made the first gas powered production car in 1889. The invention of the very fir … st practical automobile is credited to Karl Benz.