Overview. You may want to move some or all of your pension fund (sometimes called a ‘pension pot’) if: 1  you’re changing job. 2  your pension scheme is being closed or wound up. 3  you want to transfer to a better pension scheme. 4  you have pensions from more than one employer and want to bring them together. 
Your scheme administrator or pension provider should tell you which options apply to you. You can transfer your pension pot to another pension scheme, which could be a new employer’s workplace pension scheme, a personal pension scheme, a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) or a stakeholder pension (SHP) scheme. If you leave your pension scheme, the benefits you’ve built up still belong to you. You have the option to leave them where they are or to transfer them to another pension scheme. If you leave your pension scheme, you do not lose the benefits you have built up.
You should contact the scheme that you want to transfer to (the receiving scheme), as they may need certain information from you. With your authorisation they should be able to request a transfer on your behalf. Yes. The transfer must be made to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) that is “recognised for tax purposes” under the tax legislation of the country or territory in which it is established.
Transferring your pension. Leaving your pension scheme occurs when you leave your employer, if you decide to opt out or stop making contributions, for example. If you leave your pension scheme, the benefits you’ve built up still belong to you. You have the option to leave them where they are or to transfer them to another pension scheme. If you leave your pension scheme, you do not lose the benefits you have built up.
If you decide to transfer, you need to notify your scheme administrator or pension provider in writing. They will often have a form for you to complete. They will then liaise with the scheme that you want to transfer to. If you leave your pension scheme, the benefits you’ve built up still belong to you. You have the option to leave them where they are or to transfer them to another pension scheme. If you leave your pension scheme, you do not lose the benefits you have built up.
Almost all types of occupational and private pensions can be transferred. There are some exceptions, however, particularly for public sector workers. • If you left a public sector pension scheme before 1st January 1986, you can’t transfer. • If you are a member of a final salary pension scheme that provides a pension that rises in line with inflation, you can’t transfer. • If you are within one year of your pension scheme’s retirement age, you can’t transfer. The good news is that in all of the scenarios above, you would almost certainly end up with a big reduction in your pension entitlement if you transferred to a different pension – so the rules are protecting you
You can only ever transfer money from one pension to another pension. The reason for this is (mostly) to do with preventing fraud. Pension contributions are subject to tax relief – you don’t pay income tax on money you put into your pension. • If you left a public sector pension scheme before 1st January 1986, you can’t transfer. • If you are a member of a final salary pension scheme that provides a pension that rises in line with inflation, you can’t transfer. • If you are within one year of your pension scheme’s retirement age
If you're not eligible, you can still ask to be put into a pension scheme and your employer may pay into it. For employers who don’t already run a suitable pension scheme, and don’t want to set one up, there is a Government-backed scheme they can use instead. This is called the National Employment Savings Trust (NEST). Most other pension schemes may accept transfers in, but there is no compulsion for them to accept them, other than a stakeholder pension scheme, and, if they do, there may be a minimum transfer value they will accept. You should check this with the scheme’s administrator
The overseas scheme you want to transfer your pension savings to must be a ‘recognised overseas pension scheme’. It’s up to you to check this with the overseas scheme or your UK pension provider or adviser. If it’s not, your UK pension scheme may refuse to make the transfer, or you’ll have to pay at least 40% tax on the transfer. Form APSS 263 tells you what information you’ll need to provide before making a transfer