Share to: Solubility of Aluminum chloride   Aluminum chloride (AlCl3) is soluble in benzene (to a slight extent) and in water because the aluminum-chlorine bond is covalent, but st … rongly polarized, due to the relatively high electronegativity of the aluminum atom (1.5 to 1.61 on Pauling scale). NaCl dissolves in water because it is an ionic compound. Because of  this, when the compound is broken down into ions, the polarity of  the water molecules attracts the brok … en down ions. This allows for  the Na+ and Cl-ions to dissolve in the water. NaCl does not  dissolve in benzene because benzene is a nonpolar molecule. Because  it is nonpolar, the broken down ions will not be attracted to  benzene
Share to: Solubility of Aluminum chloride   Aluminum chloride (AlCl3) is soluble in benzene (to a slight extent) and in water because the aluminum-chlorine bond is covalent, but st … rongly polarized, due to the relatively high electronegativity of the aluminum atom (1.5 to 1.61 on Pauling scale). Thus there is a weak attraction of the aluminum atoms to the pi electron cloud in the benzene molecule, allowing a small amount of solubility. It is highly soluble in solvents with Lewis base character, such as nitrobenzene or ether. It is poorly soluble in methylene chloride or chloroform
Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.com. Question 6 (a) Structures of the pyridine molecule and the benzene molecule are shown below. Pyridine is soluble in water, whereas benzene is not soluble in water. Account for the difference in solubility. You must discuss both of the substances in your answer. Pyridine is polar (and capable of forming hydrogen bonds with water), while the nonpolar benzene is not capable of forming hydrogen bonds. 
Alkanes are more soluble because they are more like benzene when looking at intermolecular forces. Alcohol on the other hand have OH groups so small carbon chain alcohols are pretty soluble in polar solvents, like water, because they have simliar intermolecular forces. Answers: In the world of solubility the axiom is like dissolves like. In the solvents shown the organic solvents, benzene, chloroform, and dimethyl ether (a gas at room temperature), have relatively polarity constants.
Specifically, the MD simulations of S&vdV confirm that: (a) the benzene–water van der Waals interaction energy overwhelms in magnitude the work of cavity creation; (b) the enthalpic contribution of the weak benzene–water H-bonds is to a large extent compensated for by a corresponding entropic contribution. In order to address the role played by the weak benzene–water H-bonds, S&vdV studied a real benzene model that favors the formation of such weak H-bonds as well as a van der Waals, vdW, benzene model obtained by removing all partial charges of the first model and keeping the dispersion interactions unaffected.
Benzene is an important organic chemical compound with the chemical formula C 6 H 6. Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom. Because its molecules contain only carbon and hydrogen atoms, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon. Derivatives of benzene occur sufficiently often as a component of organic molecules that there is a Unicode symbol in the Miscellaneous Technical block with the code U+232C (⌬) to represent it with three double bonds, and U+23E3 (⏣) for a delocalized version.
It is shown that the results of molecular dynamics simulations on the hydration thermodynamics of benzene at room temperature [Schravendijk and van der Vegt, J. Chem. Theory Comput. 1 (2005) 643] are in line with a former theoretical analysis [Graziano and Lee, J. Phys. Chem. B 105 (2001) 10367]. In order to address the role played by the weak benzene–water H-bonds, S&vdV studied a real benzene model that favors the formation of such weak H-bonds as well as a van der Waals, vdW, benzene model obtained by removing all partial charges of the first model and keeping the dispersion interactions unaffected.
Clearly, it is important to provide an explanation at a molecular level of the relatively large solubility of benzene in water. Makhatadze and Privalov [3] suggested that the weak H-bonds that benzene forms with water provide a favorable energetic contribution that determines the solubility enhancement [4] and [5] . In order to address the role played by the weak benzene–water H-bonds, S&vdV studied a real benzene model that favors the formation of such weak H-bonds as well as a van der Waals, vdW, benzene model obtained by removing all partial charges of the first model and keeping the dispersion interactions unaffected.