The majority of wedding guests who are friends of the bride and groom spent less than $100 for a gift, according to a 2010 survey by TheKnot.com. Relatives shelled out an average of $146 on wedding gifts and were twice as likely to spend more than $100 compared with friends of the couple. The experts at TheKnot.com recommend using a 60-20-20 split if you’re trying to budget for several events for one couple. Spend 20% of your budget on the engagement party gift, 20% on a gift for a bridal shower or other pre-wedding occasion, and reserve 60% for the wedding gift itself. “Outline your budget ahead of time to see what is doable for you,” says TheKnot.com editor Jamie Miles. 3
Most people spend just over $100 on wedding gifts, according to a recent American Express survey, but many wedding guests also spend nearly $600 just to attend a wedding. The best gifts should be something that the couple will treasure for years to come or be something they really, really need. “I generally recommend spending between $50 to $250 on a wedding gift, depending on your budget and relationship to the bride and groom.” If you have absolutely no money, you have a year. Ultimately your presence is the biggest gift you can give
I can share that the average amount spent on a wedding gift in 2014 through RegistryFinder.com was $120. If you choose to buy from the couple's wedding registry, we recommend purchasing early, so you have the best selection of gifts and price ranges. We just don't know how much we are expected to spend on a wedding gift. Unfortunately, there's no simple answer and no set amount you should spend (or amount you should give if gifting cash). The amount you spend is dependent upon your budget and relationship with the wedding couple (or their parents).
Step 2: Portion out your total sum by event. Once you've figured out what you want to spend on the couple's gifts overall, you can break it down by percentages so that the wedding gift gets the bulk of your cash. Spend: 1  20% of your total on the engagement present. 2  20% of your total on the shower gift. 3  60% of your total on the wedding gift. 
Despite the increased costs, attendees are actually spending a little less on the gift, about $106, compared to the average of $109 in 2014. If the recipient is a family member, guests indicated they would spend $142, down from $150 last year. “Guests can spend anywhere from $500 to $1,000 to attend a wedding. If it’s a destination wedding, it can cost even more,” said Jamie Miles, managing editor of The Knot.com. “But, when it comes to a gift, we generally estimate what you should spend based on your relationship with the couple.”.
The average friend of the couple spends $79 on a wedding gift, according to TheKnot.com. Family members spend nearly twice that: $146. The Knot advises wedding guests to consider the following formula: 1  Co-worker or distant family friend or relative: $75-$100. Thanks to “save the date” cards, you can budget in advance for a wedding gift, says Hill. If you know a wedding is three months away, figure out how much you can put aside each of those months for the event.
Couples spent an average $220 per guest at weddings in 2013, according to TheKnot.com, including $66 on food alone. But all of our experts agreed that basing the cost of your gift on how much you think the couple is spending on food and entertainment is an antiquated notion. The experts at TheKnot.com recommend using a 60-20-20 split if you’re trying to budget for several events for one couple. Spend 20% of your budget on the engagement party gift, 20% on a gift for a bridal shower or other pre-wedding occasion, and reserve 60% for the wedding gift itself. “Outline your budget ahead of time to see what is doable for you,” says TheKnot.com editor Jamie Miles. 3