The Tafsir of Ibn Kathir is of the most respected and accepted explanations for the Quran and is the most widely used explanations in Arabic used today. Brief Introduction to Quran Tafsir What it is and Why We Need it We start with the word Quran. The word Quran in Arabic means Recitation (not written word).
The Word TAFSIR is an arabic word تفسير which is derived from the root 'fassara' . Someone who writes tafsir is a 'mufassir.... IBN KATHIR-Famous Mufassir (commentator of Quran) مفسر. Well known and respected for his keen memory and a highly regarded scholar of tafsir (commentary) - Born 1302 AD. Brief Introduction to Quran Tafsir What it is and Why We Need it We start with the word Quran. The word Quran in Arabic means Recitation (not written word).
Tafsir (Arabic: تفسير, translit. : Tafsīr, Meaning: interpretation) is the Arabic word for exegesis, usually of the Qur'an. An author of tafsir is a mufassir (Arabic: مُفسر ‎, mufassir, plural: Arabic: مفسرون ‎, mufassirūn). A Quranic tafsir will often explain content and provide places and times, not contained in Quranic verses, as well as give the different views and opinions of scholars on the verse. Fiqhi tafsir deals mainly with verses that have a legislative meaning (see ahkam), and it strives to obtain Islamic law from the Qur'an. It is a very common school classically and modernly. There is a dispute over the number of verses that contain jurisprudence, numbers ranging from 5 to 200 are reported.
In addition to the hadith collections, one can also download various Arabic tafsirs such as Tafsir Jalalayn, Suyuti's al-Durr al-manthur (which uses hadith to clarify and expand on the meaning of the Qur'an), and an abridged version of the Tafsir al-Qurtubi. 1 The Principles of Tafsir of the Qur'an is a well-formatted version of ch. 6 of Von Denffer's 'Ulum al-Qur'an. 2  It contain's diacritical marks in transliterated Arabic terms, which are highlighted in bold.
Tafsir. Tafsir is the Arabic word for exegesis, usually of the Qur'an. Ta'wīl is a subset of tafsir and refers to assigning a specific meaning, often derived from inspiration or dreams, to some of the allegorical ayaat. An author of tafsir is a mufassir. 
What is Tafsir. Tafsir تفسير is the Arabic word for exegesis or commentary of the Qur’an. An author of tafsīr is called a mufassir مفسر, which comes from the plural مفسرون mufassirūn. The word ‘ tafsir’ is derived from the root ‘fassara’ which means to “explain” or to “expound”. It is best understood as ‘explanation’ or ‘interpretation’ of the Qur’an. Tafsir focuses on knowledge and understanding concerning the book of Allah; to explain its meanings, extract its legal rulings and grasp its underlying reasons. Tafsir explains the ‘the complete meanings of the Qur’an’ . Why Tafsir Is Important. Many of us have surrounded the Quran with a myth
The principles of tafsir tafsîr is very important in understanding the methodlogy involved in exegesis of The'qur. An ân in, this section we will present brief outline of methodlogy and various kinds. Of Tafsir Tafsîr Interpreting The Text'of. The qur an ân the below Material is Taken'from ahmad Von denffor-S'c. ulum al qur an ân In this section, we will present brief outline of methodlogy and various kinds of tafsir. Tafsîr Interpreting The Text Of The'qur. An ân the below material is Taken from Ahmad'von denffor S c-Ulum'al. Qur an ân This is the chapter 6 Taken'from ibrahim. ibrahîm shafi s page
Ibn Kathir wrote a famous commentary on the Qur'an named Tafsir al-Qur'an al-'Adhim which linked certain Hadith, or sayings of Muhammad, and sayings of the sahaba to verses of the Qur'an, in explanation. Ismail ibn Kathir (Arabic: ابن كثير ‎, born c. 1300, died 1373) was a highly influential Sunni scholar of the Shafi'i school during the Mamluk rule of Syria, an expert on tafsir (Quranic exegesis) and faqīh (jurisprudence) as well as a historian.
This site presents the work of scholarly experts of Arabic, English, hadeeth and tafsir, together with the Guidance of Almighty God-the Explanation of God's Words in simple English. Brief Introduction to Quran Tafsir What it is and Why We Need it We start with the word Quran. The word Quran in Arabic means Recitation (not written word). Too many people today are telling us what the Quran of Allah is and what it means
Welcome to the most comprehensive. online Quranic resource. ALTAFSIR.COM is a completely free, non-profit website providing access to the largest and greatest online collection of Qur anic Commentary (tafsir or tafseer), translation, recitation and essential resources in the world. Today the website is fully operational in Arabic and English and provides the original Arabic texts of 150 or more books of Qur anic Commentary, Interpretation and Explanation (tafsir or tafseer), recitation (tajwid) tutorials and hadith collections, and other fields, pertaining to the study of Qur anic exegesis.