Report Abuse. It is called Rupee (Rs.) that corresponds to a dollar, but is NOT equal to a dollar. At the international level, it is also called the Indian Rupee to distinguish it from Nepalese, Pakistani or Sri Lankan Rupee. One Dollar is around Rs. 45 One hundred paisa's make up one rupee.
The Rupee (₨ or Rs.) is the common name for the currencies used in India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Mauritius, and the Seychelles; in Indonesia the unit of currency is known as the rupiah and in the Maldives the rufiyah. It is called Rupee (Rs.) that corresponds to a dollar, but is NOT equal to a dollar. At the international level, it is also called the Indian Rupee to distinguish it from Nepalese, Pakistani or Sri Lankan Rupee. One Dollar is around Rs. 45 One hundred paisa's make up one rupee.
The Indian rupee is divided into 100 paise. Although there used to  be coins worth a single paisa, the smallest unit of legal tender is  now the 50 paise coin. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Fish247. Generally we use pH scale to measure the basicity or acidity. it is between 1 to 14. towards 1 it is acidic and towards 14 it is basic.
The basic unit of currency in Canada is the Canadian dollar. The  symbol for the Canadian dollar is $ or C$ and the code is CAD. Generally we use pH scale to measure the basicity or acidity. it is between 1 to 14. towards 1 it is acidic and towards 14 it is basic.
The Indian Rupee (Hindi: रूपया) is the official currency of India. The issuance of the currency is controlled by the Reserve Bank of India. The most commonly used symbol for the Rupee is Rs or ₨. The ISO 4217 code for the India Rupee is INR. In most parts of India, the Rupee is known as the Rupee, Rupaye, Rubai, or one of other terms derived from the Sanskrit rupya, meaning silver. It is called Rupee (Rs.) that corresponds to a dollar, but is NOT equal to a dollar. At the international level, it is also called the Indian Rupee to distinguish it from Nepalese, Pakistani or Sri Lankan Rupee. One Dollar is around Rs. 45 One hundred paisa's make up one rupee.
Use of Indian rupee sign on a public transport ticket in Mumbai: The text is in the Marathi language. The rupee sign ₨ is a currency sign used to represent the monetary unit of account in Sri Lanka, Nepal, Mauritius, Seychelles, Pakistan and the Maldives. It resembles, and is often written as, the Latin character sequence Rs or Rs.. The issuance of the Indian currency is controlled by the Reserve Bank of India, whereas in Pakistan it is controlled by State Bank of Pakistan. The most commonly used symbol for the rupee is Rs. India adopted a new symbol (₹) for Indian rupees on 15 July 2010.
Indian monetary unit-monetary unit in India. monetary unit-a unit of money. Indian rupee, rupee-the basic unit of money in India; equal to 100 paise. anna-a former copper coin of Pakistan and India. 
INR-Indian Rupee. India, Rupee. The Indian Rupee is the currency of India. Our currency rankings show that the most popular India Rupee exchange rate is the INR to USD rate. The currency code for Rupees is INR, and the currency symbol is ₹. Below, you'll find Indian Rupee rates and a currency converter. The central bank in India is called the Reserve Bank of India. The INR is a managed float, allowing the market to determine the exchange rate. As such, intervention is used only to maintain low volatility in exchange rates.
Pakistani monetary unit-monetary unit in Pakistan. monetary unit-a unit of money. Pakistani rupee, rupee-the basic unit of money in Pakistan; equal to 100 paisa. anna-a former copper coin of Pakistan and India. 