The Iowa Gardener. Most seeds—especially peas—are picky about the temperature of their soil, and especially during weird weather years, it can be hard to tell if the soil is warm enough. A soil thermometer ($7 or $8 at a garden center or on-line) tells you in just a minute or two.
After germination, most seedlings grow best if the air temperature is below 70 degrees F. If temperatures are too warm (over 75), the seedlings will grow too fast and get weak and leggy. Most seedlings grow fine in air temperatures as low as 50 degrees, as long as soil temperature is maintained at about 65 to 70.
To start seeds indoors: Sow seeds 4 to 6 weeks before the last frost date. Cover the seeds with ½ inch of soil and keep the temperature at 70° to 85°F. Seedlings will emerge in 5 to 14 days. Set out the plants after the last frost.
Pick the flowers often to keep the blooms coming. To start seeds indoors: Start seeds indoors 6 to 8 weeks before the last frost date. Barely cover the seeds with soil and keep the temperature at about 72°F. Germination should occur in 10 to 14 days.
Soil readings for seeds are done in 1 to 2 inches of soil. Sample at least 4 to 6 inches deep for transplants. Insert the thermometer to the hilt, or maximum depth, and hold it for a minute. Do this for three consecutive days. Determining soil temperatures for a compost bin is also done in the morning.
To start seeds indoors: Start the seeds 6 to 8 weeks before the last frost date. Scatter the seeds on the surface of the soil—don’t cover them because they need light to germinate. Keep the soil temperature at 70° to 80°F; sprouts should appear in 5 to 10 days.
1 Plant cool-season grass seed once soil temperatures are in the 50s F. 2  Give your new shrubs time to grow roots before soil temperatures fall below 40° F. 3  Be very careful when starting vegetable seeds, since germination temperature is vital to the seeds’ success and every vegetable is different.
If you are starting seeds for the first time, you may want to limit yourself to no more than ten different types of plants. You can start your seeds in almost any type of container as long as it is at least 2 to 3 inches deep and has some drainage holes.
Soil temperature is simply the measurement of the warmth in the soil. Ideal soil temperatures for planting most plants are 65 to 75 F. (18 to 24 C.).