Itemizing requires that you not take the standard deduction, so you should only claim the medical expenses deduction if your itemized deductions are greater than your standard deduction (TurboTax will do this calculation for you). 1 On Schedule A, report the total medical expenses you paid during the year on line 1 and your adjusted gross income (from line 38 of your Form 1040) on line 2. 2  Enter 10% of your adjusted gross income on line 3.
A tax deduction reduces your taxable income. Your total deductions are subtracted from your taxable income in order to determine your total tax bill for the year. Tax credits are similar to tax deductions, but they reduce your tax bill dollar for dollar. Learn more about tax credits. 
Filing the Claim. You can only write off losses if you itemize deductions. Casualty and theft losses are a 2 percent deduction, like unreimbursed employee expenses and the cost of hiring a tax-prep firm. Then you have to deduct $100 from the amount. If you claim multiple car losses, you deduct $100 from each loss. Add up all your total losses -- including any other thefts, fire damage to your house, etc. -- and subtract 10 percent of your adjusted gross income from the total. Whatever you have left is deductible.
When you claim a Qualifying Child (or a Qualifying Relative) as a dependent, you can claim a special kind of tax deduction called an exemption. An exemption is like a tax deduction, but an exemption is subtracted from your adjusted gross income before your taxable income is calculated. 
The IRS allows you to deduct qualified medical expenses that exceed 10% of your adjusted gross income for the year. Your adjusted gross income (AGI) is your taxable income minus any adjustments to income such as deductions, contributions to a traditional IRA and student loan interest. 1 On Schedule A, report the total medical expenses you paid during the year on line 1 and your adjusted gross income (from line 38 of your Form 1040) on line 2. 2  Enter 10% of your adjusted gross income on line 3.
Get your share of more than $1 trillion in tax deductions. The most recent numbers show that more than 45 million of us itemized deductions on our 1040s—claiming $1.2 trillion dollars’ worth of tax deductions. That’s right: $1,200,000,000,000! That same year, taxpayers who claimed the standard deduction accounted for $747 billion. This isn’t really a tax deduction, but it is a subtraction that can save you a lot of money. And it's one that many taxpayers miss. If, like most investors, you have mutual fund dividends automatically invested in extra shares, remember that each reinvestment increases your “tax basis” in the fund.
Health insurance can be expensive, so being able to claim a tax deduction for some of your insurance costs can help you save come tax time. Since there are specific rules and qualifications you must follow, here’s an overview of when you can and cannot claim a tax deduction on your health insurance. If you’re self-employed, your health insurance premiums may be tax deductible. If you’re self-employed and not eligible for an employer-sponsored health plan through a spouse’s job, you may be eligible to write-off your health insurance premiums on your taxes.
To qualify for the deduction, your first job must be at least 50 miles away from your old home. If you qualify, you can deduct the cost of getting yourself and your household goods to the new area. If you drove your own car on a 2014 move, deduct 23.5 cents a mile, plus what you paid for parking and tolls. 
If you didn’t pay for health insurance, you can’t take a tax deduction for it. If your employer pays your health insurance premiums, you can’t deduct those costs. However, if an employer only pays for part of your premiums, you still may be able to claim a tax deduction for the portion you paid. If you’re self-employed, your health insurance premiums may be tax deductible. If you’re self-employed and not eligible for an employer-sponsored health plan through a spouse’s job, you may be eligible to write-off your health insurance premiums on your taxes.
1. Most cash donations made to charity in the tax year can be claimed as an itemized deduction on your tax return, but many folks don't realize that non-cash contributions can be claimed as well. If you've donated to a charity or non-profit organization using your credit card, you can claim that donation