According to what I have read a stalk of celery is the whole bunch....a rib, is one of the many that make up the stalk....so many of the recipes are really wrong when th … ey say one stalk....you would have way too much celery. Calories in a stalk of celery Here is the calorie content: 9 calories in 1 very large stalk of celery (11 to 12 long.8 calories in 1 large stalk of celery (9 to 10 long).
Yes a celery stalk is absorbent becase of the Vessel tissue, Xylem, and the Phloem which are the parts of the stem of the celery stalk where the tubes that carry the water and … minirals. Calories in a stalk of celery Here is the calorie content: 9 calories in 1 very large stalk of celery (11 to 12 long.8 calories in 1 large stalk of celery (9 to 10 long).
Where celery is concerned, I have always called the entire celery plant a stalk and each stalk is made up of a number of ribs with some having celery leaves attached at the top of the rib. Your recipe was probably wrong-what they probably meant was for you to chop of 3 ribs of celery from the stalk. Rhubarb stalks are the, well, stalk (think cornstalk) from which the leaf grows. The whole thing, we call a plant. I've also heard the term celery heart and celery root but that's different. Celery around here is called stalks and refers two different things but most people can easily tell what it means.
By Kathleen Purvis. Q. A recipe called for two stalks of celery. Since a stalk is what you buy at the store, I bought two and ended up with a dishpan of diced celery. But if you stopped 10 people on the street, held up a rib of celery and asked what it is, most would say “a stalk of celery.” So after years of using “rib,” I bowed to the majority and switched, so that a head of celery is made up of many stalks. It’s not a perfect solution.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. The term  celery stalk can have more than one meaning, depending on the source. It is common for people to refer to one of the upright branches of a cluster of celery as a stalk, but this section can also be called a petiole, a branch, or a rib. In such cases, the entire grouping of celery branches or petioles may be referred to as a celery stalk, though the term bunch is often used. People typically either love the flavor of celery or hate it. A chopped celery stalk is considered a staple in various recipes including stuffing, soups, and stews. Used fresh, it goes well with salads or as an appetizer, especially when dipped in ranch, honey mustard, or another type of salad dressing
Confidence votes 59. A stalk (or some people call it a rib) is one of the long pieces that are attached at the bottom of the head of celery. U. S. Department of Agriculture grades What most people call a bunch of celery, the USDA calls a stalk; and what most people call a stalk of celery, they call a branch.. Calories in a stalk of celery Here is the calorie content: 9 calories in 1 very large stalk of celery (11 to 12 long.8 calories in 1 large stalk of celery (9 to 10 long).
In Europe the dominant variety of celery most commonly grown is Apium graveolens var. rapaceum grown because its hypocotyl forms a large bulb, correctly called celeriac, but often incorrectly called celery root. The leaves are used as seasoning, and the stalks find only marginal use. Celery is used around the world as a vegetable. In North America for the crisp petiole (leaf stalk). In Europe the hypocotyl is used as a root vegetable. The leaves are strongly flavoured and are used less often, either as a flavouring in soups and stews or as a dried herb.
Celery (Apium graveolens) is a cultivated plant, variety in the family Apiaceae, commonly used as a vegetable. Depending on location, either its stalks, or its hypocotyl, are eaten and used in cooking. In North America the dominant variety most commonly available in trade is celery, Apium graveolens var. Celery is used around the world as a vegetable. In North America for the crisp petiole (leaf stalk). In Europe the hypocotyl is used as a root vegetable. The leaves are strongly flavoured and are used less often, either as a flavouring in soups and stews or as a dried herb.