Vitamin B12 is a nutrient that helps keep the body's nerve and blood cells healthy and helps make DNA, the genetic material in all cells. Vitamin B12 also helps prevent a type of anemia called megaloblastic anemia that makes people tired and weak. Two steps are required for the body to absorb vitamin B12 from food. After this, vitamin B12 combines with a protein made by the stomach called intrinsic factor and is absorbed by the body. Some people have pernicious anemia, a condition where they cannot make intrinsic factor. As a result, they have trouble absorbing vitamin B12 from all foods and dietary supplements.
Both the B vitamins and vitamin C are also stored in the liver. The B-complex vitamins are actually a group of eight vitamins, which include: 1  thiamine (B1). 2  riboflavin (B2). 3  niacin (B3). 4  pantothenic acid (B5). 5  pyridoxine (B6). 6  cyanocobalamin (B12). 7  folic acid. 8  biotin. 1 Foods. 2  Beverages. 3  Our bodies -- Vitamin K and some of the B vitamins are produced by bacteria within our intestines, and vitamin D is formed with the help of ultraviolet radiation, or sunshine, on the skin.
Warning. B vitamins are excreted by the body when taken in excess so there is little risk of toxicity. Certain forms of some B vitamins can cause side effects however, including vitamin B3 in the niacin or nicotinic acid form, which can cause skin flushing and the risk of liver damage if taken in high doses. 
The B vitamin family is made up of eight B vitamins. Although they are commonly recognized as a group and often work together in the body, each of the B vitamins performs unique and important functions. 
Overview. Vitamin B1, also called thiamine or thiamin, is one of 8 B vitamins. All B vitamins help the body convert food (carbohydrates) into fuel (glucose), which the body uses to produce energy. These B vitamins, often referred to as B complex vitamins, also help the body metabolize fats and protein. All B vitamins are water-soluble, meaning that the body does not store them. Like other B complex vitamins, thiamine is sometimes called an anti-stress vitamin because it may strengthen the immune system and improve the body's ability to withstand stressful conditions.
1 Riboflavin, Vitamin B2, for Energy A diet rich in vitamin B2, also known as riboflavin, is needed to avoid riboflavin deficiency. 2  Recommended daily allowances of B2 are 1.3 mg a day for men and 1.1 mg a day for women. 3  Pregnant women need 1.4 mg daily, and breastfeeding mothers should have 1.6 mg each day. 
B vitamin supplement tablets. B vitamins are a class of water-soluble vitamins that play important roles in cell metabolism. Though these vitamins share similar names, research shows that they are chemically distinct vitamins that often coexist in the same foods. 
Photos: Pond5. Referred to as vitamin B complex, the eight B vitamins — B1, B2, B3, B5, B6, B7, B9, B12 — play an important role in keeping our bodies running like well-oiled machines. These essential nutrients help convert our food into fuel, allowing us to stay energized throughout the day. This B vitamin is a total team player. Cobalamin works with vitamin B9 to produce red blood cells and help iron do its job: create the oxygen carrying protein, hemogloblin. Since vitamin B12 is only found in animal products, studies show higher rates of non-meat eaters with a deficiency.
B vitamins are also important for normal nervous system function. Additionally, vitamin B 6 and vitamin B 12 are essential for healthy red blood cell formation. Folic acid (also known as B 9), is important for women of childbearing age; it plays a critical role in the proper development of the baby’s nervous system. 