Aortic valve regurgitation is a problem with the aortic valve. The aortic valve allows blood to flow from the heart 's lower left chamber (ventricle) into the aorta and to the body. When the heart rests between beats, the valve closes to keep blood from flowing backward into the heart. When you have aortic valve regurgitation, the aortic valve doesn't close as it should. The most common causes of sudden (acute) aortic valve regurgitation include: 1  Endocarditis, which is an infection in the heart. 2  Aortic dissection, which means that the inner layer of the aorta separates from the middle layer. 3  Problems with a replacement (artificial)
Aortic valve regurgitation is a problem with the aortic valve. The aortic valve allows blood to flow from the heart's lower left chamber (ventricle) into the aorta and to the body. When the heart rests between beats, the valve closes to keep blood from flowing backward into the heart. 
When the heart squeezes, the left ventricle (the lower left chamber) contracts, pushing blood out into the aorta, the main artery that takes blood to the body. The aortic valve is located between the left ventricle and the aorta and prevents blood from leaking back in between beats. Aortic regurgitation or insufficiency occurs when the aortic valve doesn't completely close and allows some blood to leak back into the heart.
Aortic insufficiency (AI), also known as aortic regurgitation (AR), is the leaking of the aortic valve of the heart that causes blood to flow in the reverse direction during ventricular diastole, from the aorta into the left ventricle. Aortic insufficiency can be due to abnormalities of either the aortic valve or the aortic root (the beginning of the aorta).
The aortic valve regulates the blood flow from the heart's lower-left chamber (the left ventricle) into the aorta. The aorta is the main vessel that supplies blood to the rest of the body. Two diseases of the aortic valve are regurgitation and stenosis. Aortic regurgitation. Aortic regurgitation is also called aortic insufficiency or aortic incompetence. It is a condition in which blood flows backward from a widened or weakened aortic valve into the heart's lower chamber (the left ventricle). 
Definition. Aortic valve regurgitation — or aortic regurgitation — is a condition that occurs when your heart's aortic valve doesn't close tightly. Aortic valve regurgitation allows some of the blood that was just pumped out of your heart's main pumping chamber (left ventricle) to leak back into it. 
About half of the cases of aortic insufficiency are due to the aortic root dilation (annuloaortic ectasia), which is idiopathic in over 80% of cases, but otherwise may result from aging, syphilitic aortitis, osteogenesis imperfecta, aortic dissection, Behcet'behçet s, disease reactive arthritis and systemic. hypertension Aortic insufficiency can be due to abnormalities of either the aortic valve or the aortic root (the beginning of the aorta).
Definition. Aortic insufficiency is a heart valve disease in which the aortic valve does not close tightly. This allows blood to flow from the aorta (the largest blood vessel) into the left ventricle (a chamber of the heart).
Aortic insufficiency is a heart valve disease in which the aortic valve does not close tightly. This allows blood to flow from the aorta (the largest blood vessel) into the left ventricle (a chamber of the heart). 
A Riverside Heart and Vascular Center answered. Aortic regurgitation (AR) is also known as aortic insufficiency (AI). It is a condition in which the aortic valve in the heart does not close completely. Because the valve never closes completely, blood leaks backward from the aorta into the left ventricle. 