In Welsh Lael means little flower of God. And in Arabic it means Night. The name comes from Numbers 3:24 in the Old Testament, where Lael was the father of Eliasaph; the man in charge of the Gershonite tribe who took care of the fabrics of the Tent of Meeting (AKA the Tabernacle). -- Amatire 4/28/2005. 
Variations. Lael is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#3874 out of 4276, Top 91%) and an even more prominent surname for all people (#72022 out of 150436, Top 48%). Lael is pronounced similarly to Lal, Lil and Lisl. Other recommended similar baby names are Dael, Gael, Jael, Laela, Laila ▲ , Laily, Lala, Laleh, Lali, Lalla, Lally, Layla ▲ , Leela, Lela ▼ and Loela. These names tend to be less frequently used than Lael.
[ more ]. Lael is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#3874 out of 4276, Top 91%) and an even more prominent surname for all people (#72022 out of 150436, Top 48%). Lael is pronounced similarly to Lal, Lil and Lisl. Other recommended similar baby names are Dael, Gael, Jael, Laela, Laila ▲ , Laily, Lala, Laleh, Lali, Lalla, Lally, Layla ▲ , Leela, Lela ▼ and Loela. These names tend to be less frequently used than Lael.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Lael is a baby girl name. The name Lael comes from the Hebrew origin. In Hebrew The meaning of the name Lael is: Belonging to God. Traditional male Biblical name.
Meaning of Lael. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Lael means-Belonging to God. Traditional male Biblical name.. Other origins for the name Lael include-Hebrew, Israeli.The name Lael is most often used as a girl name or female name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Belonging to God
Biblical Meaning: The name Lael is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Lael is: To God, to the mighty. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Lael /lael/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced LAY-el. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Lael is belonging to God. A Biblical male name occasionally used for girls. Lael is pronounced similarly to Lal, Lil and Lisl. Other recommended similar baby names are Dael, Gael, Jael, Laela, Laila ▲ , Laily, Lala, Laleh, Lali, Lalla, Lally, Layla ▲ , Leela, Lela ▼ and Loela. These names tend to be less frequently used than Lael.
Lael meaning. For a meaning of the name Lael, both NOBSE Study Bible Name List and BDB Theological Dictionary read Belonging To God. Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names proposes By God. | copyright | author | contact | Biblical names | home |
[ 2 syll. lae (l), la-el ] The baby boy name Lael is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced as Laa-EH-L †. Lael is largely used in the English language and it is derived from Hebrew origins. The name's meaning is of God. Laele, Lail, Laile, Lale, Layl, and Layle are variants of Lael. Lael is a rarely used baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Lael include Laele, Lale, Lalo, Lawlee, Lawley, Lawli, Lawlie, Lawly, Laya, Layo, Lea, Leao, Lehi, Leilo, Leio, Lelei, Lelio, Leo, Lewi, and Lewie.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Lael and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lael and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The first thing you should know if you are considering Lael for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Lael is a girl name. The name Lael is of Hebrew origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.