Different types of serologic tests can be used to diagnose various health issues. Tests have one thing in common: they all focus on proteins made by the body’s immune system. This vital body system helps keep us healthy by destroying foreign invaders that can make us ill. Serologic Testing—Antigens and Antibodies. To understand serologic tests and why they are useful, it is helpful to know a little about the immune system and why we get sick. Antigens are substances that provoke a response from the immune system. They are most often too small to be seen with the naked eye.
There are other disorders which can also produce Reagin. Therefore, when the person has a positive test for Reagin, further testing is needed to determine if the person has syphilis or some other disorder such as leprosy, tuberculosis, malaria, mononucleosis, collagen disease, and a few types of viruses. These immune bodies are the product of the defense mechanisms against disease-causing organisms in the body. The principle involved with serology is the antibody-antigen response. The antigen actually comes first, in that the antigen is the substance which provokes the body to produce antibodies.
These include: ELISA, agglutination, precipitation, complement-fixation, and fluorescent antibodies. Some serological tests are not limited to blood serum, but can also be performed on other bodily fluids such as semen and saliva, which have (roughly) similar properties to serum. Serological tests may also be used forensically, specifically for a piece of evidence (e.g., linking a rapist to a semen sample). Serology is the scientific study of serum and other bodily fluids. In practice, the term usually refers to the diagnostic identification of antibodies in the serum.
Serology blood tests help to diagnose patients with certain immune deficiencies associated with the lack of antibodies, such as X-linked agammaglobulinemia. In such cases, tests for antibodies will be consistently negative. There are several serology techniques that can be used depending on the antibodies being studied. Serology is the scientific study of serum and other bodily fluids. In practice, the term usually refers to the diagnostic identification of antibodies in the serum.
Serological Testing For Syphilis. Then there are serological tests. These tests are considered to be more reliable. Of course, the type of serological test for syphilis that is administered depends upon the stage of the disease. Serological testing for syphilis for syphilis can be classified into two categories—treponemal and non treponemal. For confirmation of an active infection, a person needs to take either an RPR or VDRL test. Bottom-line, both types of serologic tests for syphilis are equally important in screening and diagnosing syphilis.
Certain microorganisms (antigens) stimulate the body to produce antibodies during an active infection. Why Serology Blood Test is performed. A serology test can determine if you have ever been exposed to a particular microorganism (antigen), but this does not necessarily indicate a current infection. If antibodies are found, exposure to some type of antigen can be suspected. 
When your blood is tested, doctors can identify the type(s) of antibodies and antigens that are in your blood sample and identify the type of infection you have. Sometimes the body mistakes its own healthy tissue for outside invaders and produces these unnecessary antibodies. Serologic Testing—Antigens and Antibodies. To understand serologic tests and why they are useful, it is helpful to know a little about the immune system and why we get sick. Antigens are substances that provoke a response from the immune system. They are most often too small to be seen with the naked eye.
Serology is the study of immune bodies in human blood. These immune bodies are the product of the defense mechanisms against disease-causing organisms in the body. The principle involved with serology is the antibody-antigen response. The antigen actually comes first, in that the antigen is the substance which provokes the body to produce antibodies.
Immunology and Serology i Preface Immunology and serology is an advanced science dealing with how the human immune system organized, function and the different types of serological techniques. It is a very vast subject covering a wide area of technology. 