By salus Nov 2, 2009 Edited Jun 29, 2015 0 0. Tweet. A flu shot causes the body's immune system to release antibodies that increases the body's resistance to the flu virus. This can cause some persons to run a fever, feel tired, vomit and have headaches. If this happens, you are better off getting lots of rest and fluids, preferable natural juices. 
People also may have mild reactions to the nasal spray vaccine. Some children and young adults 2-17 years of age have reported experiencing mild reactions after receiving nasal spray flu vaccine, including runny nose, nasal congestion or cough, chills, tiredness/weakness, sore throat and headache. Common reactions to the flu shot and the nasal spray flu vaccine are described below. Reactions to the flu shot: The most common reaction to the flu shot in adults has been soreness, redness or swelling at the spot where the shot was given. This usually lasts less than two days.
You cannot get the flu from a flu shot. The risk of a flu shot causing serious harm or death is extremely small. However, a vaccine, like any medicine, may rarely cause serious problems, such as severe allergic reactions. Almost all people who get influenza vaccine have no serious problems from it. Call a doctor, or get to a doctor right away. Tell your doctor what happened, the date and time it happened, and when you got the flu shot. Ask your doctor, nurse, or health department to file a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) form, or call VAERS at 1-800-822-7967.
Not true! The flu vaccine protects you and your baby. The flu is, in fact, more likely to cause severe illness and complications if you’re expecting. It can also cause premature labor and other health issues for your baby. And here’s good news: the flu shot you get now will protect your baby after his or her birth. 10. I have to make a doctor's appointment to get a flu shot and I don't have time. There are many convenient options now. One year I got mine at the grocery store -- pop in for milk, pop out immunized. I've also gotten my flu shot from my child's pediatrician when I took her to get her flu shot.
Best Answer: Hi:)), Registered Nurse here; Sorry to hear your feeling bad. The answer is yes the flu shot can make one sick, and throwing up is certainly seen with the flu. The flue shot stimulates your bodies immune system to kick out antibiotics to increase the resistance of getting the flu. I believe if you get the shot while you are sick with some other infection, it could actually make you sicker. Even if you are taking antibiotics, or have taken them less then 2 weeks prior to the shot, it can make you sick.
Vaccine Side Effects (What to Expect) Different side effects can be associated with the flu shot and LAIV. The flu shot: The viruses in the flu shot are killed (inactivated), so you cannot get the flu from a flu shot. I believe if you get the shot while you are sick with some other infection, it could actually make you sicker. Even if you are taking antibiotics, or have taken them less then 2 weeks prior to the shot, it can make you sick.
But you still can catch the flu after a flu shot, and here are some reasons why. Every year scientists decide what flu strains will be most common during the flu season. The vaccines take at least 4 months to produce, so they have to make their best guess pretty early. So if you come in contact with a virus very different from the vaccine, it may not protect you. It’s also possible to catch the flu before the flu vaccine takes effect, usually about 2 weeks. Some believe you can catch the flu from the flu shot, but that’s just a myth. It’s normal to have some side effects like soreness where the shot was given. It’s rare, but you may also get a low grade fever or feel some aches. They will probably only last 1 to 2 days, and then you’ll be back to normal
“So many people say the flu vaccination gives them the flu. That’s because a lot of people will have some achiness and feel bad for a few hours, but you’ll do that with any vaccine,” Ward said. “Any vaccine will produce a response that can make you achy or a little feverish. “If you take a tetanus shot, your arm is going to be a little sore and you might feel achy and bad for a few hours, but it doesn’t mean that it’s going to give you tetanus. It’s the same with the flu vaccine. 
Flu Shots. Every year, people protect themselves from the flu by getting vaccinated. The vaccine, which comes in the form of a shot or a nasal spray, can reduce your chances of getting the flu by as much as 60 percent. The shot is usually recommended for everyone 6 months of age or older. 