Should insurance companies cover the costs of such care? According to one study (Frisch et al., 2006), the average length of stay in a residential treatment center for an eating disorder is 83 days. That’s nearly 3 months of full-time, round-the-clock treatment and care.
The eating disorders anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge-eating disorder, and their variants, all feature serious disturbances in eating behavior and weight regulation. They are associated with a wide range of adverse psychological, physical, and social consequences.
A wide variety of techniques and methods are employed in the treatment of individuals with eating disorders in residential treatment programs. The average length of stay in treatment was 83 days, with an average cost per day of 956 US dollars. CONCLUSION: The residential treatment of individuals with eating disorders is a growing, variable, and largely unregulated enterprise.
According to one study (Frisch et al., 2006), the average length of stay in a residential treatment center for an eating disorder is 83 days.
A day treatment program typically runs for 8 hours a day, Monday through Friday. The average length of stay is 6-14 weeks. The program is staffed by a multidisciplinary treatment team consisting of nutritionists, therapists, psychiatrist, physician, and psychologist.
Anorexia statistics show that inpatient treatment costs an average of $1000 per day, and the recommended length of stay is usually three to six months.
The average length of stay in residential treatment, a mean of 83 days, was more than three times that of a recently reported study of inpatient length of stay for treatment of eating disorders; however, treatment length was highly individualized. The average cost per day in U.S. dollars was $956 (range $550-$1,500).
Residential treatment for eating disorders. Frisch MJ(1), Herzog DB, Franko DL. Author information: (1)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55454, USA. fris0039@umn.edu. OBJECTIVE: The current study describes residential treatment for eating disorders in the United States. METHOD: A national study involving 22 residential eating disorder treatment programs was conducted using a survey to determine treatment program descriptions and trends.