American Sign Language (ASL) was selected by Dr. Penny Patterson as the primary language to teach Koko because of the success that other researchers had with chimpanzees. It turned out to be a good choice, as Koko (and later Michael) learned it quickly.
Signers who use American Sign Language as their primary means of communication must learn specific vocabulary to communicate successfully about their bodies. For example, ASL signers must use different signs to talk about different body parts such as fingers, wrists, arms, elbows, and shoulders.
Not even Deaf people who used sign language in their daily lives knew what it was. Those who noticed that many thoughts are expressed differently in sign and in English assumed that sign was an ungrammatical form of English. Most Americans thought it was a way to express English words with signs—a substitute for speech.
Most primates spend their lives in complex, tightly woven societies and need to frequently communicate with each other. They communicate with smells, sounds, visual messages, and touching. Non-human primates emphasize the use of body language. Human communication is far more focused on the use of oral sounds.
The NAD recognizes that American Sign Language (ASL) is the backbone of the American deaf culture. The NAD values the acquisition, usage and preservation of ASL and is a recognized leader in promoting the acquisition, learning, teaching, and interpreting of ASL.
Definition. Language is a human system of communication that uses arbitrary signals, such as voice sounds, gestures, and/or written symbols. The study of language is called linguistics. Linguists (that is, specialists in the study of language) have defined language in many different ways.
And that is to say how languages are learned. So it inevitably gives you an understanding of what goes on in the acquisition process as children are acquiring their native language. And that's something we want to understand. I'm Bob Hirshon for AAAS, the Science Society.