DEFINITION of 'Domestic Corporation'. A company that conducts its affairs in its home country. A domestic corporation is often taxed differently than a foreign corporation, and may be required to pay duties or fees on the importation of its products. Many companies in the United States are incorporated in Delaware, meaning that they are subject to the laws of that state. If a company incorporates in Delaware but does not do business there, it is considered an out-of-state corporation or a foreign corporation.
Domesticating an LLC requires filing a document, called an articles of domestication, with the state business entity registration agency in the new state. An LLC must create a plan of domestication as part of filing an articles of domestication. While state forms vary, the organizer of a domesticated LLC must provide the name and jurisdiction of the existing LLC, as well as the registered agent for the existing LLC. Some states require a domesticating LLC to include an articles of organization for the new jurisdiction and a certificate of good standing.
Foreign Limited Liability Company or LLC Forms. ***Do not use for corporations. Corporations are not Limited Liability Companies or LLC's.***. Note: Please make ALL checks payable to the Florida Department of State. Shown below are forms to assist you in filing with the Division of Corporations.
1 Use the term LLC or  Limited Company  in your LLC name, even if it is not required in your state. 2  Some states do require the name to include these terms, and you don't want to have different names in different states. A couple of tips: 1  Complete your LLC registration in your home state first, and get the official documents from the state. 2  You may need copies for other states. 3 
State's that do. Here is a partial list of those states that do have a formal domestication process: CA, CO, FL, DE, GA, NV, TX, VA, WY NOTE: We will add to this list as we have found others. For more information on a particular state's process and how to order, click on the state link above (if we have provided one)
Qualification of a Foreign LLC in Florida. In order to register do business in Florida, submit the Application by Foreign LLC for Authorization to Transact Business in Florida with the Florida Department of State, Division of Corporations by mail or in person. Only domestic LLCs may file online. Pay the $125 filing fee for standard processing of one week. Articles of Organization. A Florida limited liability company is formed by filing Articles of Organization For Florida Limited Liability Company and paying the filing fee to Florida Department of State, Division of Corporations. Submit the form by mail, in person or online. The filing fee is $125
The idea to domesticate from one state to another or convert from one structure to an other not losing age of the existing company. If you are solely leaving your home state to become a Florida Corporation. You would do so by filing Domestication. State of Kentucky-statutes allow a corporation to convert into a LLC however a LLC cannot convert into a corporation. State of North Dakota-Allowed. State of Michigan-The Limited Liability Company Act and the Corporation Act allow for converting one business entity into another.