You may start noticing these signs when your child is 18 to 24 months of age. However, it is not uncommon for a child to still be in diapers at 2 and a half to 3 years of age.
Potty-training success hinges on physical and emotional readiness, not a specific age. Many kids show interest in potty training by age 2, but others might not be ready until age 2 1/2 or even older — and there's no rush. If you start potty training too early, it might take longer to train your child.
Every child is different. It may take as long as 3 to 6 months for your child to be toilet trained during daytime. It may take longer to teach your child to use the toilet during nighttime when his or her bladder control is reduced. It is important for you to be patient and supportive.
If you decide to wait until a later potty training age, you can still put this time to good use. The interval between 12-18 months is the perfect time to start thinking about toilet readiness--a set of skills and interests that will help your child master advanced toilet skills later on (see below).
Your child's toilet training experience should be positive. If it becomes a struggle or a battle of wills, it is best to ease up or stop for a while. Although you may be ready for toilet training, your child may not be.
The average age for girls to be toilet trained is 29 months, and for boys it's 31 months. Keep in mind that these are averages. Ninety-eight percent of kids are trained by 36 months of age.
There is no set age at which potty training or toilet training should begin; the right time depends on your child's development and readiness. But don't worry, there are ways and signs to tell if your child is able and ready to be potty trained. Potty Training Readiness - 4 Signs of Child Readiness:
Your child must be both physically and emotionally ready for toilet training. Most children are ready to start when they are between 22 and 30 months of age, but every child is different. Toilet training usually becomes a long and frustrating process if you try to start it before your child is ready. Before children can use the toilet, they must be able to control their bowel and bladder muscles.