Local businesses in West Bay on Dorset's Jurassic Coast are hoping for a second series of Broadchurch-as are fans. West Bay, in Dorset, has become popular with fans of Broadchurch who want to see where the series was filmed. The dramatic cliffs of West Bay have lent a stark backdrop to the gripping whodunnit series, starring David Tennant, which concluded last night. 
Broadchurch Series 2. Broadchurch is a TV drama filmed mainly in West Bay, Dorset (coastal scenes) and Clevedon near Bristol (street scenes). The cast includes David Tennant, Olivia Colman, Andrew Buchan, Jodie Whittaker, Vicky McClure, Pauline Quirke and Arthur Darvill. The Broadchurch name was derived from a combination of the West Dorset villages of Broadoak and Whitchurch Canonicorum.
Map locations where Broadchurch was filmed for the 2013 ITV crime drama with venues and settings of some of the most iconic scenes including the cliff top hut, beach, cliffs, newsagents, cafe and neighbourhood surroundings and envirnment. 
If you’re catching up on the second season of Broadchurch as it is airing on BBCAmerica, like I am, you might also be wondering where the show is filmed and how you can get there ASAP. Broadchurch, which stars David Tennant and Olivia Colman, is filmed in Dorset, along the UK’s stunning Jurassic Coast. Most of the show is filmed in the Dorset town of West Bay. Fans of the show will recognize West Bay’s dramatic cliffs and beach which have become such an important part of the series.
Discover West Bay and soak up the setting that helped inspire TV’s Broadchurch. Read more … Close ×. Dorset’s dramatic coastline played a starring role in TV drama, Broadchurch, alongside David Tennant and Olivia Colman. 
Are you a fan of the hit ITV crime drama, Broadchurch? If so, get the lowdown on series 2 and behind the scenes information of the cast, producers and filming locations for both series 1 and 2. Series 2 - cast and crew on filming in Dorset! Charlotte Rampling, Marianne Jean-Baptiste, James D'Arcy, Eve Myles and Phoebe Waller-Bridge have joined the cast of multi-award winning Broadchurch for the second series.
For eight weeks last year, ten million TV viewers were gripped by the mystery of who killed schoolboy Danny Latimer. Now David Tennant and Olivia Colman have started filming the second series of ITV’s Broadchurch in West Bay, Dorset. The show’s cast – which now includes film star Charlotte Rampling and Torchwood actress Eve Myles – are sworn to secrecy over the plot. 
Broadchurch series two. A second series of Broadchurch is being filmed in West Bay, featuring the East Cliff. David Tennant and Olivia Colman, once again star in the production, but this time with Charlotte Rampling. 
Broadchurch series one focused on the search for the boy's murderer by detectives Alec Hardy (played by David Tennant) and Ellie Miller (played by Olivia Colman). Chibnall was inspired by the Jurassic Coast of Britain to set his crime drama in a fictional, close-knit small town in Dorset. The Fox Broadcasting Company announced in August 2013 that it would adapt Broadchurch for US audiences, albeit with a different ending from that of Broadchurch. The American remake, titled Gracepoint, also starring Tennant, began airing on 2 October 2014.
Broadchurch Tours. Broadchurch Tours, West Bay. Broadchurch is a TV drama featuring Dr. Who s David Tennant, in which a body is found at the foot of the cliffs in the coastal town of Broadchurch. Broadchurch was filmed in the second half of 2012 and was written while its author, Chris Chibnall, was living in Bridport. Amongst other things, Chris wrote Life on Mars, Dr Who & Torchwood.