Papyrus was first manufactured in Egypt and Southern Sudan as far back as the fourth millennium BCE. The earliest archaeological evidence of papyrus was excavated in 2012 and 2013 at Wadi al-Jarf, an ancient Egyptian harbor located on the Red Sea coast. Papyrus is made from the stem of the papyrus plant, Cyperus papyrus. The outer rind is first removed, and the sticky fibrous inner pith is cut lengthwise into thin strips of about 40 cm (16 in) long.
Egyptians used papyrus reeds to make boats, they burned the roots for fuel, and from dried papyrus they made mats, mattresses, baskets, boxes, tables and sandals. Papyrus was even used as a source of food for the common people but Egypt's greatest achievement in the ancient world was turning papyrus sheet to paper. Cyperus papyrus is a long stemmed plant that grows in damp regions of the Nile Delta in Egypt. Ancient Egyptians discovered how to make paper from the stems of plant as early as 3000 B.C. Egyptian papyrus was used as we use paper today.
To make papyrus paper the inner pith of the stem is cut lengthways into strips and soaked in water. The strips are then placed side by side with a second layer placed at right angles to the first. Cyperus papyrus is a long stemmed plant that grows in damp regions of the Nile Delta in Egypt. Ancient Egyptians discovered how to make paper from the stems of plant as early as 3000 B.C. Egyptian papyrus was used as we use paper today.
Pliny, Paper is made from the papyrus plant by separating it with a needle point into very thin strips as broad as possible. The choice quality comes from the center, and thence in the order of slicing. 
How Ancient Papyrus Was Made. The papyrus plant is a reed that grows in marshy areas around the Nile river. In ancient Egypt, the wild plant was used for a variety of uses, and specially cultivated papyrus, grown on plantations, was used to make the writing material. The inside of the triangular stalk was cut or peeled into long strips
The word papyrus /pəˈpaɪrəs/ refers to a thick paper-like material made from the pith of the papyrus plant, Cyperus papyrus. Papyrus can also refer to a document written on sheets of papyrus joined together side by side and rolled up into a scroll, an early form of a book. The plural for such documents is papyri. Papyrus is made from the stem of the papyrus plant, Cyperus papyrus. The outer rind is first removed, and the sticky fibrous inner pith is cut lengthwise into thin strips of about 40 cm (16 in) long.
How papyrus paper is made, where papyrus comes from, what it was used for and the different types of papyrus available. Papyrus-the world's first paper! The ancient Egyptians started making paper from the papyrus plant over five thousand years ago and became one of Egypt's major exports. Papyrus is made from the Cyperus papyrus plant which grows well in the Nile's fresh water. It grows in water up to about a meter deep and can reach four and sometimes nearly five meters in height.
Papyrus is first known to have been used in ancient Egypt (at least as far back as the First Dynasty), as the Cyperus papyrus plant was a wetland sedge that was once abundant in the Sudd of Southern Sudan along with the Nile Delta of Egypt. Papyrus is made from the stem of the papyrus plant, Cyperus papyrus. The outer rind is first removed, and the sticky fibrous inner pith is cut lengthwise into thin strips of about 40 cm (16 in) long.