Internal carotid artery. The common carotid artery is found bilaterally, with one on each side of the anterior neck. Each common carotid artery is divided into an external and internal carotid artery. These arteries transfer blood to the structures inside and outside of the skull. The external carotid artery brings blood to structures outside the skull, primarily the face, and the internal carotid to structures inside the skull, including the brain. The internal carotid is responsible for supplying blood to the nearest brain hemisphere with the help of the basilar artery. The vertebra-basilar system supplies blood when the carotid artery cannot do so (due to a blockage, for example)
All rights reserved. The carotid arteries are major blood vessels in the neck that supply blood to the brain, neck, and face. There are two carotid arteries, one on the right and one on the left. In the neck, each carotid artery branches into two divisions: 1  The internal carotid artery supplies blood to the brain. 2  The external carotid artery supplies blood to the face and neck.
The external carotid artery is relatively straight, but the internal carotid artery twists and turns, increasing the likelihood of blockages. A severe blockage could cause a stroke because it would reduce blood flow to the brain. The external carotid artery brings blood to structures outside the skull, primarily the face, and the internal carotid to structures inside the skull, including the brain. The internal carotid is responsible for supplying blood to the nearest brain hemisphere with the help of the basilar artery. The vertebra-basilar system supplies blood when the carotid artery cannot do so (due to a blockage, for example)
Internal Carotid Artery. The internal carotid artery is one of the two arterial branches that stems from the common carotid artery. The carotid artery arises both directly and indirectly from the arch of the aorta, depending on which side of the body it belongs to. Stenosis of the carotid arteries, which include both the common carotid as well as the internal and external branches, is most commonly caused by a pathological disorder known as arteriosclerosis.
The internal carotid artery is major paired artery, one on each side of the head and neck, in human anatomy. The internal carotid artery is a terminal branch of the common carotid artery; it arises around the level of the third cervical vertebra when the common carotid bifurcates into this artery and its more superficial counterpart, the external carotid artery.
Carotid (ka-ROT-id) artery disease is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque (plak) builds up inside the carotid arteries. You have two common carotid arteries, one on each side of your neck. They each divide into internal and external carotid arteries. 
Internal Carotid Artery. The internal carotid artery enters the skull and supplies the anterior part of the brain (via cerebral branches), the eye and its appendages, and sends branches to the forehead and nose. At this point it ... Click to read more below. The internal carotid artery enters the skull and supplies the anterior part of the brain (via cerebral branches), the eye and its appendages, and sends branches to the forehead and nose. It has many curvatures in different parts of its path.
The carotid artery is the large vertical artery in red. The blood supply to the carotid artery starts at the arch of the aorta (bottom). The carotid artery divides into the internal carotid artery and the external carotid artery. The internal carotid artery supplies the brain. Plaque often builds up at that division, and causes a narrowing (stenosis). Pieces of plaque can break off and block the small arteries above in the brain, which causes a stroke. 
The internal carotid artery (Fig. 513) supplies the anterior part of the brain, the eye and its appendages, and sends branches to the forehead and nose. Its size, in the adult, is equal to that of the external carotid, though, in the child, it is larger than that vessel. 