The Physical impact of the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles radically altered the Geography of Europe. The Treaty had clauses that resulted in areas of land being taken from Germany. The following maps illustrate the scale of these losses: From these maps it is clear that Germany suffered large territorial losses. It was not just in Europe that German suffered territorial losses. All of Germany's overseas colonies were annexed by the Allies, either to become colonies or areas that were managed until independence could be maintained autonomously.
It ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers. It was signed on 28 June 1919, exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The other Central Powers on the German side of World War I were dealt with in separate treaties. Although the armistice, signed on 11 November 1918, ended the actual fighting, it took six months of negotiations at the Paris Peace Conference to conclude the peace treaty. The treaty restored the provinces of Alsace-Lorraine to France by rescinding the treaties of Versailles and Frankfurt of 1871 as they pertained to this issue. The sovereignty of Schleswig-Holstein was to be resolved by a plebiscite to be held at a future time (see Schleswig Plebiscites).
The financial impact of the Treaty. The Treaty of Versailles blamed Germany for the First World War. As a result of this Germany was also held accountable for the cost of the war and the Treaty dictated that compensation would have to be paid to the Allies. The Treaty of Versailles radically altered the Geography of Europe. The Treaty had clauses that resulted in areas of land being taken from Germany. The following maps illustrate the scale of these losses: From these maps it is clear that Germany suffered large territorial losses.
The immediate economic consequences of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles were a significant concern and added to Germany’s humiliation. Under the terms of the treaty Germany had to pay huge sums in reparations. In 1921, this amount was set at £6.6 billion; a sum that Germany could not pay. 1 The Treaty of Versailles ordered Germany to disband most of its armed forces, leading to high levels of unemployment. 2  Germany had to pay £6,600 million to the Allies; a price many felt was too high a price to pay. 3  Germany lost control of important industrial resources in the Ruhr Valley.
The Treaty of Versailles was the peace settlement signed after World War I and was put together by the ‘Big Three' leaders on the allied side (David Lloyd George (UK), Clemenceau (France) and Woodrow Wilson (USA)). The treaty was signed on June 28th 1919 in the Hall of Mirrors in the Palace of Versailles, 20km south-west of Paris. As a result of the Treaty of Versailles a number of political boundaries were redrawn and it is estimated that Germany lost 13.5% of its 1914 territory-home to some 7 million people.
Despite Germany’s claim that the terms of the treaty were far too harsh, most historians today agree that the terms, in fact were “relatively lenient.” 30 Henig alludes to this earlier in her book, when she concludes that “the Treaty of Versailles was not excessively harsh on Germany. What stopped the Treaty of Versailles from ever approaching success, however, was not the terms of the treaty, argues Henig, but rather the reluctance to enforce the terms by the Allies. They were naive naïve to assume That germany would cooperate with the treaty terms by. themselves
Hang the Kaiser! Popular British newspaper slogan during the negotiation of the Treaty of Versailles. On 28 June 1919, the peace treaty that ended World War I was signed by Germany and the Allies at the Palace of Versailles near Paris. Allied interests were represented by the ‘Big Three’: British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, French Premier George Clemenceau and US President Woodrow Wilson. The Treaty of Versailles was signed on 28 June 1919 - the date was the fifth anniversary of the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and his wife, the event which sparked the outbreak of World War I.
The Impact of the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles was the Peace Settlement between the Allies and Germany at the end of the First World War. The German authorities had little choice but to accept the terms of the Treaty presented by 'the Big Three'. This section looks at some of the implications of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles radically altered the Geography of Europe. The Treaty had clauses that resulted in areas of land being taken from Germany. The following maps illustrate the scale of these losses: From these maps it is clear that Germany suffered large territorial losses.