Discard the protective liner and remove the film from the outside of the window and place it on the inside of the window. Fold the bottom edge back onto itself to avoid it touching the door trim. Move the tint into place at the top of the window, leaving a 1/8-inch gap from the top of any sliding window. Run the squeegee along the top of the window, pushing any air and water out of the top as you go. Roll up the window and spray the film again with application solution. Use the squeegee to hold the window gasket out while sliding the film in underneath it. Use the squeegee to push all the air and water out from beneath the film. Wrap the squeegee in a lint-free cloth and run it across the entire window. What You'll Need. You can find window-tint film at places like Window Film Supplies. You'll also need a window-tint-film application solution, a lint-free cleaning cloth, a razor knife, a scraper blade, an application squeegee, and a heat gun.
Run the squeegee over the tint to make sure it doesn't move. For sliding windows, roll the window down from the door frame about a quarter of an inch and cut the top and sides of the film to shape, using the window as a template. Round the edges off using your finger as a guide. What You'll Need. You can find window-tint film at places like Window Film Supplies. You'll also need a window-tint-film application solution, a lint-free cleaning cloth, a razor knife, a scraper blade, an application squeegee, and a heat gun.
Step #1: Let a professional tint your windows! Otherwise, read on and proceed at your own risk! Start with a clean car, and a relatively dust and wind free environment. The tint is applied on the inside of the windows, you may work the window film on the outside... If you are planning to tint just one car, it's really not worth the expense of buying tools and window tint and then discovering just how difficult the trade is through trial and error.
When applying window tint, remember: 1  Tint your car's smallest flat windows first. 2  This way you'll get used to working with window film. 3  Apply the film in a dust-free, well-lit, shaded place. 4  Apply the tint when the air temperature is between 40 and 98 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 and 36.7 degrees Celsius). Check your state's laws to find out which of your car's windows you may tint and whether you need certification to tint windows. Follow the manufacturer's directions for your window tint. Besides the window tint and the solution it came with, you'll need: 1  Window cleaning solution. 2  Sponge. 3  Single-edged razor blade.
Step 3 – Cut and trace. Cut the tinting film into the shape of the inside of the window. You might want to cut the original shape on nylon paper and then lay it on top of the film. You can then trace and cut on the film when you are sure it is the exact fit you want for the window. Step 4 – Placing the sheet inside. Put some soapy water on the inside of the window and then place the tint sheet on the window, pulling back about the first third of the sheet. Spray the window tint with adhesive window solution. You may need to use more solution around the edges, as it may peel up after you tint the windows.
...but the window tint is finally installed on the inside of the windows with soapy water, so you may need to remove the 3rd brake light and/ or rear deck if they are against the clear part of the glass, this can be a learning experience in itself. If you are planning to tint just one car, it's really not worth the expense of buying tools and window tint and then discovering just how difficult the trade is through trial and error.
Step-by-step video instructions on window tint installation using Alpena Window Tint products. The video is very detailed in the steps as well as some tips and tricks to apply to your windows tint. Make the installation clean without bubbles or any hassles. For more information call us: 1-800-387-3217. 
Tinting windows is not as easy as it looks. Even specialists find the process of tinting windows difficult. Step 1- Know the Laws of Tinting Windows First, get to know the laws in your state regarding tinted windows. Some states do now allow black out or limo tinting because it is too dark. Put some soapy water on the inside of the window and then place the tint sheet on the window, pulling back about the first third of the sheet. Spray the window tint with adhesive window solution. You may need to use more solution around the edges, as it may peel up after you tint the windows.
Best Answer: Yes,it's cheaper to buy and tint your own window....IF YOU'RE AN EXPERT!It's hard to tint a window!Believe me,I tried!wasted $50 for NOTHING! I went to a window tinting specialist instead..it cost me $200(5 windows total)for my chrysler 300.It may sound expensive but it's totally worth the price! Source(s): you will need a sqweegy, a spray bottle to fill up with dish soap and water, and a razor blade...first clean your windows with a nonamonia window cleaner, then cut a piece of tint big enough to cover the window. determine which side of the tint has the backing on it. to do this you can use two pieces of tape.