The grassland region of Ethiopia accounts for some 30.5 percent of the area of the country and is most extensive in the western, southern and south-eastern semi-arid lowlands. On the more humid side, open grassland and grassland with some trees are common; grasses may cover as much as 90 percent of the area. In Ethiopia most improved tropical species can be grown in the lowlands (1,500-2,000 metres) and temperate species grow from above 2,100 metres up to 3,000 metres (Alemayehu, 2002). Introduced improved forage yield is higher than the naturally occurring swards and has higher nutritional value.
Climate. Ethiopia is in the tropical zone laying between the Equator and the Tropic of Cancer. It has three different climate zones according to elevation. Kolla (Tropical zone) - is below 1830 metres in elevation and has an average annual temperature of about 27 degree Celsius with annual rainfall about 510 millimetres.
The different types/kinds of biomes are:   Desser, Savannah, Tundra, Temperate Coniferous Forest, Temperate Deciduous Forest, Tiaga Forest, Tundra, Grassland, Tropical Rain … Forest, Fresh Water, Mangrove, and Coral Reef. 3 people found this useful. The different type of biomes that i know of are:   Desser, Savannah, Tundra, Temperate Coniferous Forest, Temperate Deciduous Forest, Tiaga Forest, Tundra, Grassland, Tropi … cal Rain Forest, Fresh Water, Mangrove, and Coral Reef. 10 people found this useful. Derek Matonti. 115 Contributions.
Ethiopia is located in the Horn of Africa. It is bordered by Eritrea to the north, Djibouti and Somalia to the east, Sudan and South Sudan to the west, and Kenya to the south. Ethiopia has a high central plateau that varies from 1,290 to 3,000 m (4,232 to 9,843 ft) above sea level, with the highest mountain reaching 4,533 m (14,872 ft).
The Ethiopian aquatic ecosystem has high diversity areas such as major rivers and lakes that are of great national and international importance. The country is well known for its richness in water potential. There are about 30 major lakes that are located in different ecological zones. The major ecosystems include: Afroalpine and subafroalpine, Montane dry forest and scrub, Montane moist forest, Acacia-Comiphora woodland, Combretum-Terminalia woodland, Lowland humid forest, Aquatic, wetland, Montane grassland, and Desert and semidesert ecosystems.
Transcript of Biome of Nigeria. Biomes of Africa A biome is a major regional or global biotic community, such as a grassland or desert, characterized chiefly by the dominant forms of plant life and the prevailing climate. There are many different types of biomes in Africa, such as the African savanna. 
Plants. Ethiopia plants are as varied as the country's habitats, with four major biomes to be found in the country, ranging from savannas, to tropical forest, desert and mountain vegetation. Ethiopia is a landlocked country situated on the Horn of Africa. Ethiopia budget travel offers travelers a rich and diverse travel experience. Game viewing, cultural tours, hiking and trips to ancient ruins are just some of the activities to enjoy
What are the differents kinds of biomes? The different type of biomes that i know of are:   Desser, Savannah, Tundra, Temperate Coniferous Forest, Temperate Deciduous Forest, Tiaga Forest, Tundra, Grassland, Tropi … cal Rain Forest, Fresh Water, Mangrove, and Coral Reef. 10 people found this useful. Derek Matonti. 115 Contributions.
The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (FDRE) is a landlocked country in the horn of Africa, bounded to the north by Eritrea, to the west by Sudan, to the south by Kenya and to the east by Somalia and Djibouti; it lies within the tropics between 3°24` and 14°53` North; and 32°42` and 48°12` East (see figure 1). In Ethiopia most improved tropical species can be grown in the lowlands (1,500-2,000 metres) and temperate species grow from above 2,100 metres up to 3,000 metres (Alemayehu, 2002). Introduced improved forage yield is higher than the naturally occurring swards and has higher nutritional value.