These six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, and Europe. 7 continents. By most standards, there are a maximum of seven continents-Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, Europe, North America, and South America. Map of the Continents. A map showing the world's continents and regions. 5 continents. We have been taught in school (way back in the 60's in Europe) that there are five continents, Africa, America, Asia, Australia and Europe, for instance symbolised in the five rings of the Olympic Games.
Country vs Continent. Every person presumably knows what the terms country and continent mean. A country is part of a continent, which itself is part of the earth. Australia and Antarctica are the two exceptions, since both countries are continents as well. 
Asian Culture Facts And History. Asia is the world’s most populated continent with the greatest diversity of culture. Asian culture is colorful and immensely interesting. It is a result of the continent’s long history. 
There is strong evidence that most of the Earth's continents have been periodically joined together into supercontinents as the movement of the plates brought them together. The most recent of these supercontinents, Pangaea, formed about 270 million years ago and broke up about 200 million years ago. The geologic record provides evidence of older supercontinents than Pangaea and a so-called supercontinent cycle of periodic supercontinent formation and break-up. What ultimately drives the cycle is a subject of scientific debate.
Africa, the Americas, Antarctica, Asia, Australia together with Oceania, and Europe are considered to be Continents. The term continent is used to differentiate between the various large areas of the earth into which all the land surface of Earth is divided. Map of the Continents. A map showing the world's continents and regions. 5 continents. We have been taught in school (way back in the 60's in Europe) that there are five continents, Africa, America, Asia, Australia and Europe, for instance symbolised in the five rings of the Olympic Games.
A continent is one of several very large landmasses on Earth. They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents. These are (from largest in size to smallest): Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia. 
Even though the world lacks official definitions a continent, it should be concluded that Australia is a continent and Greenland is an island. On a related note, I will here state my objection to including Australia as part of a continent of Oceania. Continents are land masses, not regions. There has to be a line in the sand between small continent and the world's largest island and traditionally that line exists between Australia and Greenland. Besides size and tradition, one can make the argument geologically.
A six continent model combining Europe and Asia is preferred by the geographic community, the former parts of the USSR, and Japan. Another six continent model combining North and South America is taught in Latin America and most of Europe. The answer to ‘what is a continent’ is more by convention than strict definition. Hopefully, this will help to clear some of the confusion that you had before you started reading this article. We have written many articles about the continents for Universe Today. 
Alaska is also shown in blue, but is separate from the other states. Hawaii is not shown on this map. The Continental United States is the area of the United States of America comprising the 48 states that are south of Canada and north of Mexico (known as the lower 48 states) and the state of Alaska.
However, in every accepted definition of continents, Australia is always included as a continent (or is part of an Oceania continent) and Greenland is never included. While that definition might not hold water for some people, there is no official globally recognized definition of a continent. There has to be a line in the sand between small continent and the world's largest island and traditionally that line exists between Australia and Greenland. Besides size and tradition, one can make the argument geologically.