People in Iceland do not speak Danish, they speak their own Scandinavian language called Icelandic. It’s one of the most unchanged languages in the world, thanks to Iceland’s geographic isolation. It is similar to Old Norse, which was spoken by the original settlers. Most people also speak English, German, or another Scandinavian language. Iceland’s parliament, the Althing, is the oldest unicameral, or one-house legislature in the world. It has been meeting since A.D. 930.
Icelandic /aɪsˈlaendɪk/ (aɪsˈlændɪk (islenska·íslenska)) help info Is A north, germanic language the Language. Of iceland it Is-An indo european language belonging To The north Germanic or nordic branch Of the. germanic languages The language of the sagas is Old Icelandic, a western dialect of Old Norse. Danish rule of Iceland from 1380 to 1918 had little effect on the evolution of Icelandic, which remained in daily use among the general population.
Icelandic is the native language of Iceland. Most Icelanders are average or good English speakers and Danish is also pretty common. They speak the same English but they do say some word in hawaiian Mostly English but there and many languages that people speak there too Pigeon -- English slang There is a n … ative Hawaiian language, famous for its limited alphabet, but most people there today can speak English (and some Spanish).
Language. Icelandic is the official language of Iceland. It is an Indo-European language, belonging to the sub-group of North Germanic languages. It is closely related to Norwegian and Faroese, although there are slight traces of Celtic influence in ancient Icelandic literature.
Icelandic /aɪsˈlaendɪk/ (aɪsˈlændɪk (islenska·íslenska)) help info Is A north, germanic language the Language. of iceland The language of the sagas is Old Icelandic, a western dialect of Old Norse. Danish rule of Iceland from 1380 to 1918 had little effect on the evolution of Icelandic, which remained in daily use among the general population.
Some Icelandic people may speak … Norwegian, Danish or Swedish, but it all depends.    --    The only languages spoken in Iceland, *besides Icelandic* are only languages you might expect from immigrants, about 7% of the population, in 2008. A large portion of these immigrants were non-permanent workers of some sort mainly from Poland, Lithuania or Thailand.
Icelandic /aɪsˈlaendɪk/ (aɪsˈlændɪk (islenska·íslenska)) help info Is A north, germanic language the Language. Of iceland it Is-An indo european language belonging To The north Germanic or nordic branch Of the. Germanic, languages historically it was the westernmost Of-The indo european languages prior to the colonisation Of. the americas The language of the sagas is Old Icelandic, a western dialect of Old Norse. Danish rule of Iceland from 1380 to 1918 had little effect on the evolution of Icelandic, which remained in daily use among the general population.
[1] Icelandic is the official language of Iceland. [2] But students are required to learn Danish and English in school. They tend to speak the two languages as well as t … hey speak their own Icelandic. [3] German, Norwegian, and Swedish tend to be the other languages that Icelanders know. --    The only languages spoken in Iceland, *besides Icelandic* are only languages you might expect from immigrants, about 7% of the population, in 2008.
Report Abuse. They speak Icelandic, it´s an old Anglo-Saxon language. Iceland is a part of Scandinavia (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden) and we usually understand each other in Scandinavian (not a real language, but a mixture of all those languages, as many of the words are the same or alike). Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They speak Icelandic which is a Northern German language. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iceland http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Icelandic_l...