1,3-Propanediol is the organic compound with the formula CH 2 (CH 2 OH) 2. This three-carbon diol is a colorless viscous liquid that is miscible with water. 1,3-Propanediol may be chemically synthesized by the hydration of acrolein, or by the hydroformylation of ethylene oxide to afford 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde. The aldehyde is hydrogenated to give 1,3-propanediol.
Another example is propane-1,2-diol, or alpha propylene glycol, HO−CH 2 −CH(OH)−CH 3, used in the food and medicine industry, as well as a relatively non-poisonous antifreeze product. On commercial scales, the main route to vicinal diols is the hydrolysis of epoxides. In general, organic geminal diols readily dehydrate to form a carbonyl group. For example, carbonic acid ((HO) 2 C=O) is unstable and has a tendency to convert to carbon dioxide (CO 2) and water (H 2 O). Nevertheless, in rare situations the chemical equilibrium is in favor of the geminal diol.
A diol is a chemical compound containing two hydroxyl groups (−OH groups). This pairing of functional groups is pervasive, and many subcategories have been identified. The most common industrial diol is ethylene glycol. Examples of diols in which the hydroxyl functional groups are more widely separated include 1,4-butanediol HO−(CH 2) 4 −OH and bisphenol A, and propylene-1,3-diol, or beta propylene glycol, HO−CH 2 −CH 2 −CH 2 −OH. In general, organic geminal diols readily dehydrate to form a carbonyl group. For example, carbonic acid ((HO) 2 C=O) is unstable and has a tendency to convert to carbon dioxide (CO 2) and water (H 2 O). Nevertheless, in rare situations the chemical equilibrium is in favor of the geminal diol.
Ethane-1,2-diol, (ethylene glycol, monoethylene glycol, MEG) which is manufactured from ethene via epoxyethane, is used to make polyester fibres, resins and films although it is probably better known for its use as a coolant in cars. Figure 1 Uses of ethane-1,2-diol. By far the most important uses of the diol is in the manufacture of polyesters, particularly PET (polyehylene terephthalate), used widely for clothes and for packaging. Another important use is as a coolant in engines.
glycol. (glī`kōl) , dihydric alcohol alcohol,any of a class of organic compounds with the general formula R-OH, where R represents an alkyl group made up of carbon and hydrogen in various proportions and-OH represents one or more hydroxyl groups...... The most important glycol is the simplest, ethylene glycol, or 1,2-ethanediol, CH 2 OHCH 2 OH, a slightly sweet-tasting, somewhat viscous liquid that is miscible with water.
A diol is a chemical compound containing two hydroxyl groups. This pairing of functional groups is pervasive and many subcategories have been identified. The most common diols in nature are sugars and their polymers, cellulose. The most common industrial diol is ethylene glycol. Examples of diols in which the hydroxyl functional groups are more widely separated include 1,4-butanediol HO—(CH2)4—OH and bisphenol A, and propylene-1,3-diol or beta propylene glycol, HO-CH2-CH2-CH2-OH.
extracted from green tea. The wide polarity range of the diol column was exploited to purify different families of compounds. Note that the column was run as normal phase from 100% hexane through 100% water as a normal phase column in a single run. . Tables 1 and 2 demonstrate that diol TLC plates provide a reasonable. prediction of how a variety of compounds will behave in a column. As the. polarity of the solvent is increased, the compounds show higher retention. factors demonstrating that the diol is running as normal phase.
The conversion from epoxyethane to the diol takes place in two stages. First the epoxide reacts with carbon dioxide to form 1,3-dioxolan-2-one (ethene carbonate): An organophosphorus compound is used as the catalyst. Ethene carbonate is then reacted with water to form ethane-1,2-diol and regenerates carbon dioxide. Figure 1 Uses of ethane-1,2-diol. By far the most important uses of the diol is in the manufacture of polyesters, particularly PET (polyehylene terephthalate), used widely for clothes and for packaging. Another important use is as a coolant in engines.
In a vicinal diol, the two hydroxyl groups occupy vicinal positions, that is, they are attached to adjacent atoms. These compounds are called glycols. Examples include 1,2-ethanediol or ethylene glycol HO−(CH 2) 2 −OH, a common ingredient of antifreeze products. In general, organic geminal diols readily dehydrate to form a carbonyl group. For example, carbonic acid ((HO) 2 C=O) is unstable and has a tendency to convert to carbon dioxide (CO 2) and water (H 2 O). Nevertheless, in rare situations the chemical equilibrium is in favor of the geminal diol.