Newborns infected with CMV in the womb (congenital CMV), babies who become infected during birth or shortly after birth (perinatal CMV) — such as through breast-feeding — and people with weakened immune systems are more at risk of developing signs and symptoms than are healthy adults. 
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) belongs to the herpes virus family. Infection with CMV is very common. Between 50% and 80% of people in the United States have had a CMV infection by the time they are 40 years according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). CMV pathogenesis and symptoms. Once a person has had a CMV infection, the virus usually lies dormant (or inactive) in the body, but it can be reactivated. Reactivation occurs when the immune system is weakened. Symptoms vary according to age and health of the patient.
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a common virus that can infect almost anyone. Most people don't know they have CMV because it rarely causes symptoms. However, if you're pregnant or have a weakened immune system, CMV is cause for concern. Once infected with CMV, your body retains the virus for life. However, CMV usually remains dormant if you're healthy. CMV spreads from person to person through body fluids, such as blood, saliva, urine, semen and breast milk. CMV spread through breast milk usually doesn't make the baby sick.
The species that infects humans is commonly known as human CMV (HCMV) or human herpesvirus-5 (HHV-5), and is the most studied of all cytomegaloviruses. Within Herpesviridae, CMV belongs to the Betaherpesvirinae subfamily, which also includes the genera Muromegalovirus and Roseolovirus (HHV-6 and HHV-7) . 
Many people are infected with CMV and don't even know it because the virus rarely causes symptoms and usually does not cause long-term problems. However, CMV can cause problems in people who have weak immune systems and in a newborn if the mother gets the infection during pregnancy. Next: Symptoms. 
Cytomegalovirus is a virus belonging to the herpesvirus family that commonly infects humans. Although cytomegalovirus infections are very common, most people who are otherwise healthy who have the infection do not feel sick or even notice the infection. 
Cytomegalovirus (sy toe MEG a low vy rus), or CMV, is a common virus that infects people of all ages. Most CMV infections are silent, meaning most people who are infected with CMV have no signs or symptoms. However, CMV can cause disease in people with a weakened immune system and in babies infected before birth. About 1 in 150 children is born with congenital (present at birth) CMV infection... More.
Cytomegalovirus, also known as HCMV, CMV or Human Herpes virus 5 (HHV-5) is part of the herpes family of viruses. It is a common virus and spreads through bodily fluids, including saliva, blood, breast milk, semen and urine. CMV is the virus most commonly transmitted to a developing fetus. The word Cytomegalovirus comes from the Greek word cyto meaning cell, and the Greek word megalo meaning large. There are three main types of CMV infections: CMV is not a concern for most of the general population.
Cytomegalovirus, also called CMV is a common virus that infects most people but rarely causes obvious illness. Cytomegalovirus is also the virus most frequently transmitted to a developing child before birth. A person can carry CMV in their body for a lifetime. Cytomegalovirus is a member of the herpes virus family. Some other viruses in the herpes family cause: chickenpox, infectious mononucleosis, fever blisters (herpes I) and genital herpes (herpes II). For the vast majority of people, CMV infection is not a serious problem.
Introduction. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a common virus that belongs to the herpes family of viruses. It's spread through bodily fluids, such as saliva and urine, and can be passed on through close contact with young children, such as when changing nappies