Sodium hydroxide is used in many industries, mostly as a strong chemical base in the manufacture of pulp and paper, textiles, drinking water, soaps and detergents and as a drain cleaner. Worldwide production in 2004 was approximately 60 million tonnes, while demand was 51 million tonnes. Sodium hydroxide (NaOH), also known as lye and caustic soda, is an inorganic compound. It is a white solid and highly caustic metallic base and alkali salt which is available in pellets, flakes, granules, and as prepared solutions at a number of different concentrations. Sodium hydroxide forms an approximately 50% (by weight) saturated solution with water
Sodium thiopental is an ultra-short-acting barbiturate and has been used commonly in the induction phase of general anesthesia. Its use has been largely replaced with that of propofol. Following intravenous injection, the drug rapidly reaches the brain and causes unconsciousness within 30–45 seconds. 
For other uses, see NaCl (disambiguation) . Sodium chloride /ˌsoʊdiəm ˈklɔraɪd/ , also known as salt, common salt, table salt or halite, is an ionic compound with the chemical formula NaCl, representing a 1:1 ratio of sodium and chloride ions. Large quantities of sodium chloride are used in many industrial processes, and it is a major source of sodium and chlorine compounds used as feedstocks for further chemical syntheses. A second major consumer of sodium chloride is de-icing of roadways in sub-freezing weather.
Sodium /ˈsoʊdiəm/ is a chemical element with symbol Na (from New Latin natrium) and atomic number 11. It is a soft, silver-white, highly reactive metal. Many sodium compounds are useful, such as sodium hydroxide (lye) for soap-making and sodium chloride for use as a de-icing agent and a nutrient (edible salt).
Sodium is an essential element for all animals and some plants. Sodium ions are the major cation in the extracellular fluid (ECF) and as such are the major contributor to the ECF osmotic pressure, and thus ECF compartment volume. Many sodium compounds are useful, such as sodium hydroxide (lye) for soap-making and sodium chloride for use as a de-icing agent and a nutrient (edible salt).
Full Definition of SODIUM. : a silver-white soft waxy ductile element of the alkali metal group that occurs abundantly in nature in combined form and is very active chemically — see element table. See sodium defined for English-language learners. See sodium defined for kids.
Medical Definition of SODIUM. : a silver white soft waxy ductile element of the alkali metal group that occurs abundantly in nature in combined form and is very active chemically—symbol Na; see element table. : a silver-white soft waxy ductile element of the alkali metal group that occurs abundantly in nature in combined form and is very active chemically — see element table. See sodium defined for English-language learners. See sodium defined for kids.
Pure sodium hydroxide is a whitish solid, sold in pellets, flakes, and granular form, as well as in solution. It is highly soluble in water, with a lower solubility in ethanol and methanol, but is insoluble in ether and other non-polar solvents. Sodium hydroxide (NaOH), also known as lye and caustic soda, is an inorganic compound. It is a white solid and highly caustic metallic base and alkali salt which is available in pellets, flakes, granules, and as prepared solutions at a number of different concentrations. Sodium hydroxide forms an approximately 50% (by weight) saturated solution with water
From the weight of the sodium salt and the volume of air in the room, we easily calculate that one part by weight of air could not contain more than 1/20 millionth weight of sodium. This article is about the chemical element. For the commonly called sodium nutrient, see salt. Many sodium compounds are useful, such as sodium hydroxide (lye) for soap-making and sodium chloride for use as a de-icing agent and a nutrient (edible salt).