Confidence votes 260. The cost of an MRI study can range from $300 to $10000. There is a huge difference in the cost of an MRI study across the country and even city to city. In addition to pricing being very different throughout a region, pricing is also affected by the MRI clinic that you decide to use.
Cost. The cost of an MRI procedure varies and primarily depends on the type of procedure you are having done. An MRI on the brain will have a different price than an MRI done on another body part. The price range for an MRI runs from $400 to the way up to $3,500, as of 2010.
MRI's are expensive because of the price of the equipment. With the average MRI machine costing over $1 million dollars they have to charge enough per test to cover the expense of the machine. Now, that doesn't mean you can get a better price that what is published.
The cost of an MRI procedure varies and primarily depends on the type of procedure you are having done. An MRI on the brain will have a different price than an MRI done on another body part. The price range for an MRI runs from $400 to the way up to $3,500, as of 2010.
The cost of an MRI depends on where you live, the negotiating power of the provider who administers the scan and your insurance provider. According to this study released by Medicare, the average cost of an MRI is $2,611. However, Underwood Memorial Hospital in New Jersey reported an average of $13,259 for an MRI and Northbay Medical Center in California reported the average cost at $9,766.
The cost of an MRI study can range from $300 to $10000. There is a huge difference in the cost of an MRI study across the country and even city to city. In addition to pricing being very different throughout a region, pricing is also affected by the MRI clinic that you decide to use.
MRI cost can range between $400 to $3,500 depending upon which MRI procuedure is performed (example: brain mri vs. shoulder mri) and where you have the MRI test performed. The same exact MRI test can vary by hundreds of dollars from testing facility to testing facility.