Evidence supports the use of glucosamine sulfate taken by mouth to treat knee osteoarthritis. Nearly all studies have used glucosamine sulfate supplied by Rotta Research Laboratorium, a manufacturer in Europe. It is unclear if glucosamine sold by other manufacturers are equally effective. Several studies have found that glucosamine may benefit osteoarthritis in other body parts, aside from the knee. However, there is less evidence to support this compared to knee osteoarthritis. Knee osteoarthritis appears to respond better than other joints to any treatment. Overall, high-quality studies are lacking.
Glucosamine in the body is used to make cartilage, a cushion that surrounds joints. In osteoarthritis, this cushion becomes thinner and stiff. Taking glucosamine sulfate as a supplement might help to supply the materials needed to rebuild cartilage. Glucosamine sulfate seems to be safe for most people. It can cause some mild side effects including nausea, heartburn, diarrhea, and constipation. Uncommon side effects are drowsiness, skin reactions, and headache
Studies suggest that glucosamine is safe and causes only minor side effects, such as stomach upset, heartburn, indigestion, gas, bloating, nausea, and diarrhea. If these occur, try taking glucosamine with food. People with peptic ulcers should take glucosamine sulfate with food. Glucosamine is available in oral supplements as glucosamine sulfate, glucosamine hydrochloride, and n-acetyl glucosamine. These products may come in tablet, capsule, and powder forms. It is often combined with chondroitin and sometimes manganese as well. Manganese is a trace mineral necessary for normal bone health.
Glucosamine, which is produced naturally in the body, plays a key role in building cartilage; the tough connective tissue that cushions the joints. Several scientific studies suggest that glucosamine may be an effective treatment for osteoarthritis (OA). Glucosamine is available in oral supplements as glucosamine sulfate, glucosamine hydrochloride, and n-acetyl glucosamine. These products may come in tablet, capsule, and powder forms. It is often combined with chondroitin and sometimes manganese as well. Manganese is a trace mineral necessary for normal bone health.
1 Research results suggest that chondroitin isn’t helpful for pain from osteoarthritis of the knee or hip. 2  It’s unclear whether glucosamine helps with osteoarthritis knee pain or whether either supplement lessens osteoarthritis pain in other joints. Only a small amount of research has been done on glucosamine and chondroitin for osteoarthritis of joints other than the knee and hip. Because there have been only a few relatively small studies, no definite conclusions can be reached. More information. 1  Chondroitin for osteoarthritis of the hand.
Talk to your doctor if you are thinking about taking glucosamine and chondroitin. If you are allergic to shellfish, do not take glucosamine unless you have talked to your doctor. Some glucosamine is made from shellfish covering. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not regulate dietary supplements in the same way it regulates medicines. Glucosamine, also called chitosamine, is a natural substance that is found in the covering of shellfish. It is available in different forms, including glucosamine hydrochloride, N-acetyl-glucosamine (NAG), and glucosamine sulfate, which is a combination of glucosamine and mineral salt.
For instance, in the largest study to date of glucosamine, published in 2006, more than 1,500 adults with knee osteoarthritis were randomly assigned to receive the supplement, a painkiller or a placebo. After 24 weeks, only those participants taking the painkiller reported less knee pain. 
1 Studies have found that glucosamine and chondroitin supplements may interact with the anticoagulant (blood-thinning) drug warfarin (Coumadin). 2  Overall, studies have not shown any other serious side effects. Only a small amount of research has been done on glucosamine and chondroitin for osteoarthritis of joints other than the knee and hip. Because there have been only a few relatively small studies, no definite conclusions can be reached. More information. 1  Chondroitin for osteoarthritis of the hand.
Chondroitin is a molecule that occurs naturally in the body. It is a major component of cartilage, the tough, connective tissue that cushions the joints. Commercial chondroitin comes from natural sources, such as shark and bovine cartilage, or synthetic production. 
Glucosamine and chondroitin are part of normal cartilage. Cartilage acts as a cushion between the bones in a joint. Glucosamine, also called chitosamine, is a natural substance that is found in the covering of shellfish. It is available in different forms, including glucosamine hydrochloride, N-acetyl-glucosamine (NAG), and glucosamine sulfate, which is a combination of glucosamine and mineral salt.