If the UK had held Germany to the treaty, the war would've been impossible. 4. We can't just choose one link in the chain of events leading up to WW2 and claim it's the main cause. In this case, the treaty was caused by other things and caused other things that all helped propel the war. The resolution is negated. Although WWI led to the Treaty which caused WWII, we cannot say that WWI is the MAIN cause of WWII. We cannot say that the issues prior to WWI are the MAIN causes of WWII either. This is because neither WWI nor its previous causes led to the problems I mentioned in the first round.
1. The Treaty of Versaille contributed to WW22. The Treaty of Versaille was not the main cause of WW2 Pro has done a brilliant job of showing you how the Treaty of Versaille paved the road for Nazi Germany and the rise of Hitler. However, he has not shown you how the treaty caused WW2. Although WWI led to the Treaty which caused WWII, we cannot say that WWI is the MAIN cause of WWII. We cannot say that the issues prior to WWI are the MAIN causes of WWII either. This is because neither WWI nor its previous causes led to the problems I mentioned in the first round.
For the Allies, the treaty had created a just peace which weakened Germany, secured the French border against attack and created an organisation to ensure future world peace, to be called the League of Nations. Yet the backlash in Germany against the Versailles ‘Diktat’ was enormous. Did you Know. The Treaty of Versailles was signed on 28 June 1919 - the date was the fifth anniversary of the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and his wife, the event which sparked the outbreak of World War I.
Hang the Kaiser! Popular British newspaper slogan during the negotiation of the Treaty of Versailles. On 28 June 1919, the peace treaty that ended World War I was signed by Germany and the Allies at the Palace of Versailles near Paris. Allied interests were represented by the ‘Big Three’: British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, French Premier George Clemenceau and US President Woodrow Wilson. Did you Know. The Treaty of Versailles was signed on 28 June 1919 - the date was the fifth anniversary of the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and his wife, the event which sparked the outbreak of World War I.
It ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers. It was signed on 28 June 1919, exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The other Central Powers on the German side of World War I were dealt with in separate treaties. Although the armistice, signed on 11 November 1918, ended the actual fighting, it took six months of negotiations at the Paris Peace Conference to conclude the peace treaty.
By Jennifer Rosenberg. The Versailles Treaty, signed on June 28, 1919, was the peace settlement between Germany and the Allied Powers that officially ended World War I. The details of the Versailles Treaty had been debated and finalized at the Paris Peace Conference, which opened on January 18, 1919 - just over two months after the fighting on the Western Front ended. Although many diplomats from the Allied Powers participated, Germany was not invited to the conference.
The main terms of the Treaty of Versailles were: 1  War Guilt Clause-Germany should accept the blame for starting World War One. 2  Reparations-Germany had to pay 6,600 million pounds for the damage caused by the war. 3  Disarmament-Germany was only allowed to have a small army and six naval ships. World War Two began in September 1939 when Britain and France declared war on Germany following Germany's invasion of Poland.
While the Treaty of Versailles did not render World War II inevitable, it did hasten the conflict; the provisions caused German expansion, economic downfall and hyperinflation, and vulnerability of the German people that eventually led to the election of Hitler and the Fascist party. The Treaty of Versailles signified humiliating defeat for the Germans. As a country who had declared war on several powers, to lose the war and then be forced to pay for and sacrifice land to their enemies was a blow to the German pride.
The immediate cause was Britain and France declaring war on Germany after it invaded Poland in September 1939. Problems arose in Weimar Germany that experienced strong currents of revanchism after the Treaty of Versailles that concluded its defeat in World War I in 1918. Supporters of this view paraphrase Clausewitz: World War II was continuation of World War I by the same means. In fact, World Wars had been expected before Mussolini and Hitler came to power and Japan invaded China.