Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Spread breadcrumbs on a rimmed baking sheet and bake until golden brown, 5-6 minutes. Once mostly cooled, transfer crumbs to a shallow dish. Stir in Parmesan, salt and oil; mix well. Set a wire rack on the baking sheet; lightly coat rack with cooking spray. 
1 In third shallow dish, mix bread crumbs and cheese. 2  Coat chicken with flour; dip into egg mixture, then coat with bread crumb mixture. 3  Place on cookie sheet. 4  3 Bake 15 to 20 minutes, turning once, until chicken is no longer pink in center and coating is golden brown. 1 1 Heat oven to 425°F. Line cookie sheet with foil; spray with cooking spray. 2  2 In shallow dish, place flour. 3  In another shallow dish, beat egg and water. 4  In third shallow dish, mix bread crumbs and cheese. 5
1 Preheat Oven to 425°F. 2  Mix chicken tenders and mayonnaise in a bowl to lightly coat chicken with mayonnaise. 3  Mix bread crumbs and cheese in a gallon-size zippie bag. 4  Prepare baking sheet with cooking spray. 5  Put 1-2 chicken tenders in the zippie bag with the bread crumbs and shake to coat. 1 Mix bread crumbs and cheese in a gallon-size zippie bag. 2  Prepare baking sheet with cooking spray. 3  Put 1-2 chicken tenders in the zippie bag with the bread crumbs and shake to coat. 4  Place chicken tenders in a single layer on prepared baking sheet. 5  Continue until all tenders are coated and on the
1 In a plastic zipper bag, combine Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs, onion powder, garlic powder, thyme, basil, pepper and paprika. 2  Dip chicken strips first in milk mixture, then toss to coat evenly in the breadcrumb/cheese mixture. 3  Place on baking sheets and bake at 400 degrees F for 20 minutes or until golden. 
Salt and black pepper. Ingredients. Preparation. Preheat oven to 375F. Season the chicken tenders with salt and black pepper. In a shallow dish, season the flour with salt and black pepper then beat the eggs in another shallow dish with the milk. In a third shallow dish, place the breadcrumbs. Dredge the chicken tenders in the flour to coat, shaking off any excess flour. Dip the floured chicken tenders into the egg and finally, coat the chicken tenders with the breadcrumbs. Place the breaded chicken tenders onto a baking sheet and bake in the oven for 12-15 minutes, until golden brown.
Directions. Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Cut chicken into 2-inch pieces. Spread panko on a rimmed baking sheet and bake until golden brown, 6 to 8 minutes. Transfer to a shallow dish, then add Parmesan and 1/2 teaspoon salt; drizzle with oil and stir to combine. Place flour and eggs in separate shallow dishes.
1 Place chicken tenders in a single layer on prepared baking sheet. 2  Continue until all tenders are coated and on the baking sheet. 3  Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes. 4  Gently flip each one, so as not to remove the breading, and bake an additional 8 minutes. 5  Serve with your favorite dipping sauce. 1 Mix bread crumbs and cheese in a gallon-size zippie bag. 2  Prepare baking sheet with cooking spray. 3  Put 1-2 chicken tenders in the zippie bag with the bread crumbs and shake to coat. 4  Place chicken tenders in a single layer on prepared baking sheet. 5
1 Put 1-2 chicken tenders in the zippie bag with the bread crumbs and shake to coat. 2  Place chicken tenders in a single layer on prepared baking sheet. 3  Continue until all tenders are coated and on the baking sheet. 4  Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes. 1 Mix bread crumbs and cheese in a gallon-size zippie bag. 2  Prepare baking sheet with cooking spray. 3  Put 1-2 chicken tenders in the zippie bag with the bread crumbs and shake to coat. 4  Place chicken tenders in a single layer on prepared baking sheet. 5