Temporary bruising is the most common side effect of Botox. Headaches, which end in 24 to 48 hours, can happen, but this is rare. A small percentage of patients may develop eyelid drooping. This usually ends within three weeks. Drooping usually happens when the Botox moves around, so don't rub the treated area for 12 hours after injection or lie down for three to four hours. Botox is injected with a fine needle into specific muscles with only minor discomfort. It generally takes three to seven days to take full effect, and it is best to avoid alcohol starting at least one week before the procedure. You should also stop taking aspirin and anti-inflammatory medications two weeks before treatment to reduce bruising
Botox is a brand name of a toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. There are other brand names for botulinum, such as Xeomin. In large amounts, this toxin can cause botulism, which you probably associate with food poisoning. Getting Botox takes only a few minutes and no anesthesia is required. Botox is injected with a fine needle into specific muscles with only minor discomfort. It generally takes three to seven days to take full effect and it is best to avoid alcohol at least one week prior to treatment.
While you may notice some results immediately, the full effect of BOTOX ® , along with the maximum wrinkle smoothing effect, will take a few days. Typically, it takes from three days to a week before BOTOX ® will take full effect. [ Previous ] [ Next ]. To learn more about using Botox, please click on the sections below. 1  Introduction to BOTOX. 2  How Does Botox® Work? 3  What Does Botox® Treat? 4  Botox® - Prices & Costs. 5  The Botox® Procedure. 6  When Does Botox® Take Effect? 7  How Long Does Botox® Last? 8  Complications & Side Effects of Botox®. 9  Botox® Before & After Photos. 10  Discuss Botox® On Our Forum.
Temporary bruising is the most common side effect of Botox. Headaches, which end in 24 to 48 hours, can happen, but this is rare. A small percentage of patients may develop eyelid drooping. Getting Botox takes only a few minutes and doesn't require anesthesia. Botox is injected with a fine needle into specific muscles with only minor discomfort. It generally takes three to seven days to take full effect, and it is best to avoid alcohol starting at least one week before the procedure.
Some patients notice the effects in as few as 3 days. A recent study in the USA showed that Botox lasted from 3 to 8 months for upper facial wrinkling, in most patients it lasts 3 to 5 months. Yes, injections are performed to maintain a benefit over a long period of time often three times a year. 
Most patients find that the effects of the injections last approximately 3-6 month. Most of my patients come 3-4 times the first year and then 2-3 times a year after that. After the muscles have been relaxed for awhile, it takes less to maintain that relaxation. 
You shouldn’t expect immediate results from botox injections. It usually takes between 2-14 days for the injection to take effect. Some people claim to see an immediate change but this is very unlikely and may be just wishful thinking. Most plastic surgeons say the minimum time for botox to take effect is around 2 days and that most people will have seen the full results they are going to get by 14 days.
On the average, Dysport is less expensive than Botox. The results of a treatment with Dysport may be very similar to that of Botox. However, the onset of action of Dysport is often faster than with Botox and in some individuals, Dysport may last longer than Botox. In others however, Botox lasts longer. 
Botox usually takes 2-3 weeks for maximum benefit. Of course, there is some individual variation--it may take less time or longer as each person's body is slightly different in its response to treatment. Most patients feel the benefits last at least 3-4 months. Some can have benefits up to 9 months to a year. 