Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
Report Abuse. I preheat the oven to 500 degrees, really hot. Put the salmon in a greased baking dish and bake in the preheated oven approx. 10 minutes or until it flakes easily and the flakes are opaque, not transparent. My favorite salmon recipe... mix a half tablespoon liquid smoke with a small bottle of sugar free maple sirup. Pour over the salmon and bake. 
I bake salmon all the time. I line my pan with aluminum foil, place the salmon fillet in the pan, put on my favorite seasonings/toppings, seal it up, and bake it in a preheated 400º oven. If the topping is thick, like a mayonnaise topping with onion powder and dill sprinkled over it, my 8 oz piece of salmon takes about 30 minutes to cook. 
The best way to cook the thicker fillets is to use 400° as the set temperature and bake the fish for 18-20 minutes. If a lower heat is desired, season the fillet and wrap it in foil, sealing it tightly and bake at 350° for about 25-30 minutes. ● Thin Fillet. This cut should be baked for a total of 12-15 minutes. When baking a tail wrapped in foil, use 375° as the heat setting and bake the fish for 20-22 minutes. ● Salmon Steak. Steaks of course are much thicker than a fillet. For each 1″ of thickness, figure on 10 minutes of baking time. Steaks should be baked uncovered at exactly 400°
Here are some general guidelines for baking salmon. 1  A good rule of thumb is that at 350 degrees the salmon will bake about ten minutes per one inch thickness of your fillet. 2  A two-inch thick fillet will bake for 20 minutes. 3  A 1-1/2 filet will take 15 minutes and so on. 1 A two-inch thick fillet will bake for 20 minutes. 2  A 1-1/2 filet will take 15 minutes and so on. 3  Check the salmon frequently. 4  Start checking at about 10 minutes, and keep checking until the flesh of the fish is just barely an opaque pink.
Oven Temperature. Another thing that determines how long the salmon is baked is oven temperature. Typically, recipes for baking salmon call for an oven temperature of 350 to 450 degrees. The salmon should always be put into a pre-heated oven. Cooking in an oven that hasn't been pre-heated can cause drying of the fish. 1 A two-inch thick fillet will bake for 20 minutes. 2  A 1-1/2 filet will take 15 minutes and so on. 3  Check the salmon frequently. 4  Start checking at about 10 minutes, and keep checking until the flesh of the fish is just barely an opaque pink.
When using a foil wrap, the fillet should be baked at 375° for about 15-20 minutes. ● Tail Fillet. The tail tip is the thinnest fillet and often the most tender. When seeking a cut of Salmon other than a steak, this will often be the best choice. Bake the tail at 415° for optimal results. This cut should be baked for a total of 12-15 minutes. When baking a tail wrapped in foil, use 375° as the heat setting and bake the fish for 20-22 minutes. ● Salmon Steak. Steaks of course are much thicker than a fillet. For each 1″ of thickness, figure on 10 minutes of baking time. Steaks should be baked uncovered at exactly 400°
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. 
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum baking time. 