If bands injure a baby's fingers, the fingers may join as they heal (acrosyndactyly). While babies are in the womb, a sac of fluid (amniotic sac) surrounds and protects them. In amniotic band syndrome, thin strands of tissue form inside this sac. The strands tangle around the baby, like strings or rubber bands, trapping parts of their body. Pressure from the strands can affect the way your baby forms. As your baby grows, the strands make creases, or indentations, in their tissue. Tighter bands may go as deep as the bone. Bands happen most often around a baby's arms or legs. Often, the bands go all the way around the limb. Some go only partway around (incomplete bands). Bands can also form around the head, face, chest or belly (abdomen).
What is amniotic band syndrome and what causes it? Amnion is a membrane that surrounds the baby in utero, if it ruptures, strands of amnion can end up floating in the amniotic fluid. These strands can attach to the baby’s developing body parts and cause injury, this is known as amniotic band syndrome. No one knows for certain exactly what causes amniotic band syndrome, but many physicians and researchers agree that it starts with the rupture of the amnion (a thin sac that forms around the fetus that protects it) early in pregnancy. Bands of amnion then encircle parts of the fetus’s body.
Midwife sonographer and BabyCenter's expert on scans. It is likely that your ultrasound picked up an amniotic sheet, rather than a band. This is because amniotic bands are extremely rare, and, unless the ultrasound picked up other problems, it is most unlikely you have one. Structures within the amniotic fluid are often seen during routine ultrasounds and are divided into two categories: There are important differences between them.
Amniotic band syndrome is a broad term for a group of congenital abnormalities that occur when bands of amnion (the inner lining of the amniotic sack or bag of water) peel away from the sack and attach or wrap around parts of the baby's body, disrupting normal development. 1 Aberrant tissue bands is another term for amniotic band syndrome. 2  Streeter bands is another term for ABS. 3  It refers to a physician named Streeter who identified and studied amniotic band syndrome in the first half of the 1900s.
The placenta is an organ attached to the lining of your womb during pregnancy. It keeps your unborn baby’s blood supply separate from your own blood supply, as well as providing a link between the two. The link enables the placenta to carry out functions that your unborn baby can’t perform for itself. 
Band in the Placenta. I went in for an emergency ultrasound yesterday and the tech told me that either I have a band in the placenta or it's a seperate placenta and I was pregnant with twins at one point and lost one. I'm a little panicked as the things I've read about for a band in the placenta are not exactly good
Amniotic band constriction (also known as amniotic band syndrome, ADAM complex, Amniotic band sequence, Congenital constriction bands and Pseudoainhum) is a congenital disorder caused by entrapment of fetal parts (usually a limb or digits) in fibrous amniotic bands while in utero. Contents. 
It is possible that the main title of the report Amniotic Band Syndrome is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report. 