The noun WIMP has 2 senses: 1. a person who lacks confidence, is irresolute and wishy-washy. 2. a hypothetical subatomic particle of large mass that interacts weakly with ordinary matter through gravitation; postulated as a constituent of the dark matter of the universe. Familiarity information: WIMP used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details. • WIMP (noun). Holonyms (WIMP is a part of...): dark matter ((cosmology) a hypothetical form of matter that is believed to make up 90 percent of the matter in the universe; it is invisible (does not absorb or emit light) and does not collide with atomic particles but exerts gravitational force).
A timid or unadventurous person: the impression that he is a colorless, indecisive wimp, and not a leader among men (James J. Kilpatrick). WIMP. any of a group of weakly interacting elementary particles predicted by various unified field theories, as the W particle and Z-zero particle, that are characterized by relatively large masses. [1985–90; W(eakly) I(nteracting) M(assive) P(article) ].
WIMP interaction was developed at Xerox PARC (see Xerox Alto, developed in 1973) and popularized with Apple 's introduction of the Macintosh in 1984, which added the concepts of the menu bar and extended window management. Though the term has fallen into disuse, some use it incorrectly as an approximate synonym for graphical user interface (GUI) . Any interface that uses graphics can be called a GUI, and WIMP systems derive from such systems. However, while all WIMP systems use graphics as a key element (the icon and pointer elements), and therefore are GUIs, the reverse is not true. Some GUIs are not based in windows, icons, menus, and pointers
In human–computer interaction, WIMP stands for  windows, icons, menus, pointer , denoting a style of interaction using these elements of the user interface. It was coined by Merzouga Wilberts in 1980. Though the term has fallen into disuse, some use it incorrectly as an approximate synonym for graphical user interface (GUI) . Any interface that uses graphics can be called a GUI, and WIMP systems derive from such systems. However, while all WIMP systems use graphics as a key element (the icon and pointer elements), and therefore are GUIs, the reverse is not true. Some GUIs are not based in windows, icons, menus, and pointers
Full Definition of WIMP. : a weak, cowardly, or ineffectual person. — wimp·i·ness \ˈwim-pē-nəs\ noun. — wimp·ish \ˈwim-pish\ adjective. — wimp·ish·ness \-nəs\ noun. — wimpy \ˈwim-pē\ adjective. See wimp defined for English-language learners. See wimp defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
wimp′y, adj. wimp•i•er, wimp•i•est. any of a group of weakly interacting elementary particles predicted by various unified field theories, as the W particle and Z-zero particle, that are characterized by relatively large masses. WIMP. any of a group of weakly interacting elementary particles predicted by various unified field theories, as the W particle and Z-zero particle, that are characterized by relatively large masses. [1985–90; W(eakly) I(nteracting) M(assive) P(article) ].
koshinuke is disparaging and is probably the most appropriate translation of wimp. okubyoumono is also disparaging, but not as curt as koshinuke. hikyoumono would be rarely used and basically refers to someone who uses under-handed tactics to gain an advantage; i.e. a cheater and coward. In human-computer interaction, WIMP stands for window, icon, menu, pointing device, denoting a style of interaction using these elements. It was coined by Merzouga Wil … berts in 1980. Although its usage has fallen out of favor, it is often used as an approximate synonym of GUI.
Abbrev for weakly interacting massive particle. Such subatomic particles have been proposed as a possible form of the dark matter which is thought to make up more than 90% of the universe, their weakly interacting nature accounting for the fact that they have not yet been detected. 
The term “WIMP” is given to a dark matter particle that was produced by falling out of thermal equilibrium with the hot dense plasma of the early universe, although it is often used to refer to any dark matter candidate that interacts with standard particles via a force similar in strength to the weak nuclear force. Its name comes from the fact that obtaining the correct abundance of dark matter today via thermal production requires a self-annihilation cross section of, which is roughly what is expected for a new particle in the 100 GeV mass range that interacts via the electroweak force.