Myocarditis is a disease marked by the inflammation of heart muscle. Learn about the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of myocarditis. Inflammation is a normal bodily response to any sort of wound or infection. Imagine when you cut your finger. 
Heart muscle disease or inflammation of the heart. Increase text size / Decrease text size | Print this page | Email this page. Both heart muscle disease (cardiomyopathy) and inflammation of the heart muscle (myocarditis) affect the heart muscle. Cardiomyopathy changes the structure of your heart. 
Heart inflammation: Introduction. Heart inflammation: Where there is inflammation of the muscle or lining of the heart. See detailed information below for a list of 5 causes of Heart inflammation, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. Some of the comorbid or associated medical symptoms for Heart inflammation may include these symptoms: 1  Abdominal symptoms. 2  Cardiovascular symptoms. 3  Eczema. 4  Fever. 5  Heart symptoms. 6  Inflammatory symptoms. 7  Mouth symptoms.
Pericarditis is a condition in which the membrane, or sac, around your heart is inflamed. This sac is called the pericardium. 1  Idiopathic pericarditis. 2  This term refers to pericarditis with no known cause. 3  Acute pericarditis. 4  Chronic pericarditis. 5  Chronic effusive pericarditis and chronic constrictive pericarditis. 
Here are some key points about inflammation. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Inflammation is the body's attempt at self-protection to remove harmful stimuli and begin the healing process. 2  Inflammation is part of the body's immune response. 
Drug side effect causes of Heart inflammation. The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins may possibly cause Heart inflammation as a side effect. [ See detailed list of 1 drug side effect causes of Heart inflammation 1  ]. Vesanoid. Conditions listing medical symptoms: Heart inflammation: The following list of conditions have ' Heart inflammation ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom
Inflammation is linked to diabetes, depression, heart disease, and cancer; what you can do about it. 
Conditions listing medical complications: Heart inflammation: The following list of medical conditions have ' Heart inflammation ' or similar listed as a medical complication in our database. This computer-generated list of complications may be inaccurate or incomplete. Conditions listing medical symptoms: Heart inflammation: The following list of conditions have ' Heart inflammation ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom
Pericarditis Overview. Pericarditis describes the condition where the thin membrane lining the heart becomes inflamed. Most often, acute pericarditis is self-limiting and will resolve within a few weeks. However, it may recur and is considered chronic if the symptoms persist for more than 6-12 months. 