After earning a bachelor's degree, students must attend a medical school for 4 years to earn an M.D. During the first 2 years of medical school, students usually take lecture courses in anatomy, laboratory science and general health care procedures. Step 3: Obtain a Medical License. Medical school graduates qualify to take the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE). All states require doctors who intend to enter public practice to pass the test and obtain a medical license.
A career as an obstetrician/ gynecologist requires you to obtain a typical medical doctor education at a four year undergraduate college or university, followed by four years of medical school, and three to eight years of residency in obstetrics and gynecology. This residency normally lasts between four and five years. If you are thinking about becoming an obstetrician/gynecologist, you must strongly desire serving patients, be a self-motivator, be deeply concerned about women's health, and be able to withstand the long hours and pressures of medical school, education and training, and medical practice.
An obstetrician is a physician and must therefore attend medical school. If you are making this decision whiles in high school, the first thing you need to do is make sure you take classes in biology, chemistry and physics. An obstetrician salary can increase when you add bonuses. There are a lot of added benefits for this profession as well. Benefits such as social security, 401K contributions, pensions, bonuses, paid time off and healthcare benefits can bring the average pay package for an obstetrician to about $338,000 per year.
Persons, who are interested in becoming an obstetrician/gynecologist, must complete four years of undergraduate school at an accredited college or university, four years of medical school specializing in obstetrics and gynecology, and a three to eight year internship and residency in a hospital setting. If you are thinking about becoming an obstetrician/gynecologist, you must strongly desire serving patients, be a self-motivator, be deeply concerned about women's health, and be able to withstand the long hours and pressures of medical school, education and training, and medical practice.
Education and training/entrance requirements. To become an obstetrician, you must first become a qualified medical practitioner and then specialise in obstetrics. In Western Australia, postgraduate courses in medicine are offered by the University of Notre Dame and the University of Western Australia. 
How to Become an Obstetrician. Graduation from high school is the first step in the lengthy process required to become an obstetrician. Following high school, students must successfully complete a four-year bachelor's degree, majoring in pre-medical studies. An obstetrician is a medical doctor who provides specialized medical care to women during pregnancy, childbirth and post-partum. In addition, obstetricians are trained to detect reproductive diseases in women as well as recommend and implement treatment, including surgery.
How to become an Obstetrician Gynecologist. An obstetrician/gynecologist is a medical doctor, who specializes in the medical and surgical care of women, particularly in the areas of pregnancy, childbirth, and disorders of the female reproductive system. If you are thinking about becoming an obstetrician/gynecologist, you must strongly desire serving patients, be a self-motivator, be deeply concerned about women's health, and be able to withstand the long hours and pressures of medical school, education and training, and medical practice.
From the start of a pregnancy through the delivery of the baby, an obstetrician's job is monitoring the health of the mother and child. These specialists are also customarily trained in gynecology and should have a keen interest in all aspects of women's general reproductive health care. Step 3: Obtain a Medical License. Medical school graduates qualify to take the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE). All states require doctors who intend to enter public practice to pass the test and obtain a medical license.
Research what it takes to become an OBGYN or an obstetrician/gynecologist. Learn about education, training and licensure requirements to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Health Science degrees can also be found in these popular choices. Preparing to become an obstetrician and gynecologist begins with a high school education. Taking science and math classes like physics, chemistry and biology can help lay the foundation for your undergraduate studies. You'll want to maintain high grades to qualify for undergraduate programs.