Of the four terms, Magical realism is the most commonly used and refers to literature in particular that portrays magical or unreal elements as a natural part in an otherwise realistic or mundane environment. The terms are broadly descriptive rather than critically rigorous. Fredrick Jameson, On Magic Realism in Film advances a hypothesis that magical realism in film is a formal mode that is constitutionally depended on a type of historical raw material in which disjunction is structurally present.
If there is a ghost in a story of magical realism, the ghost is not a fantasy element but a manifestation of the reality of people who believe in and have real experiences of ghosts. Magical realist fiction depicts the real world of people whose reality is different from ours. It's not a thought experiment. When it first came into use to describe the work of certain Latin American writers, and then a small number of writers from many places in the world, it had a specific meaning that made it useful for critics.
Her work is a perfect example of the magical realism genre, because it blends magical elements (such as myths) with natural elements (like history and personal experience). One of the characters in The House of the Spirits is clairvoyant, or someone who can perceive beyond the five senses. There are numerous Latin American writers whose work falls into the magical realism genre. Here are just a few famous examples: Gabriel Garcia Marquez was an incredibly popular author from Colombia. He wrote the famous novel One Hundred Years of Solitude, which is an example of magical realism.
Lesson Summary. Magical realism is a genre of literature that blends realistic elements with magical elements to create 'magical realism.' Magical realism originated in Latin America, where writers such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Isabel Allende made it popular. There are numerous Latin American writers whose work falls into the magical realism genre. Here are just a few famous examples: Gabriel Garcia Marquez was an incredibly popular author from Colombia. He wrote the famous novel One Hundred Years of Solitude, which is an example of 
In other words, magical realism can achieve its effects by either making marvelous a certain character's perceptions and/or by making the setting itself marvelous. Characteristics of magical realism include five primary traits: 1  An irreducible magic which cannot be explained by typical notions of natural law. 2  A realist description that stresses normal, common, every-day phenomena, which is then revised or refelt by the marvelous. 
To me, magical realism is an attitude on the part of the characters in the novel toward the world, or toward nature. Leal and Irene Guenther both quote Arturo Uslar-Pietri, who described man as a mystery surrounded by realistic facts. A poetic prediction or a poetic denial of reality. Fredrick Jameson, On Magic Realism in Film advances a hypothesis that magical realism in film is a formal mode that is constitutionally depended on a type of historical raw material in which disjunction is structurally present.
According to some critics, Magical Realism differs from fantasy or science fiction primarily because it does not include creatures such as unicorns, witches or aliens, nor does it deal with time travel; instead, it is set in a normal, modern world with authentic descriptions of humans and society. In fact, the movement became linked with the moniker Magical Realism only in the past few decades, fueled by works from Latin and South America. However, Magical Realism is considerably older, as evinced in centuries-old literary works. These works include The Thousand And One Arabian Nights.
Some various definitions of magical realism Magical Realism--We recognize the world, although now--not only because we have emerged from a dream--we look on it with new eyes. We are offered a new style that is thoroughly of this world, that celebrates the mundane. Magical realism refers to the occurrence of supernatural, or anything that is contrary to our conventional view of reality [it is] not divorced from reality either, [and] the presence of the supernatural is often attributed to the primitive or 'magical' Indian mentality, which coexists with European rationality.
Any genre of fiction can get at truths, of course. Some science fiction and fantasy do so, and are serious fiction. Some SF and fantasy are escapist. But magical realism is always serious, never escapist, because it is trying to convey the reality of one or several worldviews that actually exist, or have existed. When it first came into use to describe the work of certain Latin American writers, and then a small number of writers from many places in the world, it had a specific meaning that made it useful for critics.
Magical realism, magic realism, or marvelous realism is literature, painting, and film that, while encompassing a range of subtly different concepts, share in common an acceptance of magic in the rational world. It is also sometimes called fabulism, in reference to the conventions of fables, myths, and allegory. Fredrick Jameson, On Magic Realism in Film advances a hypothesis that magical realism in film is a formal mode that is constitutionally depended on a type of historical raw material in which disjunction is structurally present.