Saccharin is used in many diet sodas to sweeten them without the added calories of sugar. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. Saccharin sodium is a type of artificial sweetener that is sweeter than sucrose but has a bitter aftertaste. Saccharin sodium is often used to sweeten soft drinks, candy, biscuits, medicine and toothpaste.
Saccharin is a no-calorie sweetener 300 times sweeter than table sugar. It has been used as a no-calorie sweetener in foods and beverages for more than 100 years. Saccharin was used heavily during the sugar shortages of the two world wars, particularly in Europe. Today saccharin is used in a wide range of low-and no-calorie and sugar-free foods and beverages, including tabletop sweeteners, baked goods, jams, chewing gum, canned fruit, candy, dessert toppings and salad dressings as well as cosmetic products, vitamins and pharmaceuticals.
Saccharin is an artificial sweetener with effectively no food energy which is about 300–400 times as sweet as sucrose or table sugar, but has a bitter or metallic aftertaste, especially at high concentrations. The form used as an artificial sweetener is usually its sodium salt. The calcium salt is also sometimes used, especially by people restricting their dietary sodium intake. Both salts are highly water-soluble: 0.67 g/ml water at room temperature.
In its acid form, saccharin is not water-soluble. The form used as an artificial sweetener is usually its sodium salt. The calcium salt is also sometimes used, especially by people restricting their dietary sodium intake. Both salts are highly water-soluble: 0.67 g/ml water at room temperature.
Sodium saccharin is a salt of the artificial sweetener saccharin. Sodium saccharin is the solid form of the artificial sweetener saccharin. Saccharin is non-nutritive and is used to add sweetness to beverages and foods without the calories or detrimental effects of consuming sugar. Using artificial sweeteners can help you reduce your consumption of sugar. Substituting saccharin, or another sugar substitute, for table sugar, or sucrose, can help aid in weight loss and long-term weight control, reduce the incidence of dental cavities and be an important factor in the management of Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes.
Chemistry. Sodium saccharin is the salt form of saccharin, an artificial sweetener. Like many other salts, it dissociates into its component parts when dissolved in water. The words sodium saccharin and saccharin are used interchangeably because saccharin is the component that has the sweet taste. Both names are easier to use than the true chemical name, which is 1,2-benzisothiazol-3(2H)-one,1,1-dioxide. This chemical has a molecular weight of 241.19. Between saccharin, aspartame, sucralose, stevia and the long-outlawed cyclamates, it's easy to be confused by all the artificial sweeteners. Judging which products are best for baking and which are best for use at the table is baffling enough without weighing the relative safety concerns.
Saccharin (two brand names: Sweet ‘N Low and Sweet Twin) is a low-calorie sugar substitute that was first discovered in 1879. It is 200 to 700 times sweeter than sugar, depending on how it is used. Some people may notice an aftertaste when they consume saccharin. Saccharin is found in many processed foods and drinks, including chewing gum, canned fruit, baked goods, and soft drinks. It is also used as a tabletop sweetener (for example, to sweeten a glass of iced tea). It is used in some medicines and vitamins. Saccharin can be used as a substitute for sugar when you are baking.
Saccharin is heat stable. It does not react chemically with other food ingredients, as such, it stores well. Blends of saccharin with other sweeteners are often used to compensate for each sweetener's weaknesses and faults. A 10:1 cyclamate :saccharin blend is common in countries where both these sweeteners are legal; in this blend, each sweetener masks the other's off taste. The form used as an artificial sweetener is usually its sodium salt. The calcium salt is also sometimes used, especially by people restricting their dietary sodium intake. Both salts are highly water-soluble: 0.67 g/ml water at room temperature.