grape. 1. the edible smooth-skinned fruit that grows in clusters on vines of the genus Vitis and is fermented to make wine. 2. grapevine. 3. a dark purplish red color. 4. grapeshot. n. 1. (Plants) the fruit of the grapevine, which has a purple or green skin and sweet flesh: eaten raw, dried to make raisins, currants, or sultanas, or used for making wine. 2. (Plants) any of various plants that bear grapelike fruit, such as the Oregon grape.
grape. n. 1. (Plants) the fruit of the grapevine, which has a purple or green skin and sweet flesh: eaten raw, dried to make raisins, currants, or sultanas, or used for making wine. 2. (Plants) any of various plants that bear grapelike fruit, such as the Oregon grape.
A grape is a fruiting berry of the deciduous woody vines of the botanical genus Vitis. Grapes can be eaten raw or they can be used for making wine, jam, juice, jelly, grape seed extract, raisins, vinegar, and grape seed oil. Grapes are a non-climacteric type of fruit, generally occurring in clusters. Resveratrol is found in widely varying amounts among grape varieties, primarily in their skins and seeds, which, in muscadine grapes, have about one hundred times higher concentration than pulp. Fresh grape skin contains about 50 to 100 micrograms of resveratrol per gram.
The vine or the grape is one of the most well known plants in the world. The grape grows as a shrub from one large vine, which is characterized by twisted stems that bear rather small, round and green branches with a lot of large and alternating placed palm shaped leaves. The vine also bears many tiny flowers that are grouped in a light green panicle on the stem.
Full Definition of GRAPE. 1. : a smooth-skinned juicy greenish-white to deep red or purple berry eaten dried or fresh as a fruit or fermented to produce wine. 2. : any of numerous woody vines (genus Vitis of the family Vitaceae, the grape family) that usually climb by tendrils, produce grapes, and are nearly cosmopolitan in cultivation. 3. 
Noun. 1. grape-any of various juicy fruit of the genus Vitis with green or purple skins; grow in clusters. edible fruit-edible reproductive body of a seed plant especially one having sweet flesh. n. 1. (Plants) the fruit of the grapevine, which has a purple or green skin and sweet flesh: eaten raw, dried to make raisins, currants, or sultanas, or used for making wine. 2. (Plants) any of various plants that bear grapelike fruit, such as the Oregon grape.
Yeast, one of the earliest domesticated microorganisms, occurs naturally on the skins of grapes, leading to the innovation of alcoholic drinks such as wine. The earliest archeological evidence for a dominant position of wine-making in human culture dates from 8,000 years ago in Georgia. Resveratrol is found in widely varying amounts among grape varieties, primarily in their skins and seeds, which, in muscadine grapes, have about one hundred times higher concentration than pulp. Fresh grape skin contains about 50 to 100 micrograms of resveratrol per gram.
Some of the health benefits of grapes include the following: Asthma: Due to their well-known therapeutic value, grapes can be used as a cure for asthma. In addition to that, the hydrating power of grapes is also high, which increases the moisture present in the lungs and reduces asthmatic events. 
Knowledge center. The ways to consume grapes are endless-from red, green and purple grapes to seedless grapes, grape jelly, grape jam and grape juice. And don't forget wine and raisins! This popular fruit's history goes back as far as 8,000 years, when grape vines were first cultivated in what is now the Middle East. Grapes contain powerful antioxidants known as polyphenols, which may slow or prevent many types of cancer, including esophageal, lung, mouth, pharynx, endometrial, pancreatic, prostate and colon. 1. The resveratrol found in red wine famous for heart health is a type of polyphenol found in the skins of red grapes.