Our musculoskeletal system is made up of muscles, tendons, ligaments, bones, cartilage, joints and bursae. Our muscles work with the nervous system to contract when stimulated with impulses (messages through the receptor arc) from motor nerves. The muscles are attached to the bones with ligaments.
1 Epiglottis: This is attached to the thyroid gland. 2  It is made up of fibrocartilage with a shape like that of a spoon. 3  Epiglottis and cricoid cartilage are the laryngeal cartilages that are not paired. 4  Thyroid: This is commonly known as the Adam’s apple.
There are actually two menisci in each knee, one on the inner side of the knee and the other on the outer side. The meniscus is not attached to bone like articular cartilage, but rather it sits in the knee between the thigh bone and the shin bone. Whether walking, running, or jumping, the meniscus absorbs and evenly distributes forces throughout knee.
Cricoid cartilage is attached to the thyroid cartilage in the presence of cricothyroid ligament. There is also a cricotracheal ligament that attaches the cricoid cartilage to the first ring of the trachea [ 3 ].
The inferior border of the thyroid cartilage is attached to the cricoid cartilage by the cricothyroid membrane in the midline and the cricothyroid muscles on either side. The superior horn along with the entire superior edge of the thyroid cartilage is attached to the hyoid bone by the thyrohyoid membrane.
The upper 7 pairs are attached to the sternum directly through their costal cartilages. Ribs 8 through 10 are attached indirectly to the sternum through the seventh costal cartilage. Their costal cartilages are also attached with each other at different points. The 11th and 12th rib do not attach anteriorly to anything and just end in the muscles of body wall. They are, for this reason, called floating ribs.
In osteochondral autograft transplantation, cartilage is transferred from one part of the joint to another. Healthy cartilage tissue-a graft -- is taken from an area of the bone that does not carry weight (non-weightbearing). The graft is taken as a cylindrical plug of cartilage and subchondral bone.