I am an Architect and this is what I do Words that Architects use: Architect Bingo Card #5 An Architect's Desk Life of an Architect-My Favorites 2011 An Architect's tool bag Being an Architect Architectural Sketches-Keep or Throw Away Architecture in the Real World ... sorta 3 Words: Are. even better. I am an Architect and this is what I do Words that Architects use: Architect Bingo Card #5 An Architect's Desk Life of an Architect-My Favorites 2011 An Architect's tool bag Being an Architect Architectural Sketches-Keep or Throw Away Architecture in the Real World ... sorta 3 Words: Are. Blogs.
Earning a professional degree in architecture is the typical path to becoming an architect in all states. Most architects earn their professional degree through a 5-year Bachelor of Architecture degree program, intended for students with no previous architectural training. Work Environment [About this section] [To Top]. Architects held about 107,400 jobs in 2012, with two-thirds employed in the architectural, engineering, and related services industry. About 1 in 5 were self-employed.
The courses in architecture are a three year National Diploma in Architecture and after an additional year of study a B Tech degree in Architecture can be obtained. This will enable a student to become an architectural technologist or senior technologist. 
Architects Overview. Almost three times the proportion for all occupations, 21 percent, of architects are self-employed. In order to obtain a license, architects must earn a professional degree in architecture, have at least 3 years of work, training and passing all divisions of the Architect Registration Examination. Competition is keen for this career, especially for employment in the most prestigious firms. 
To become a licensed architect one must earn a professional degree in architecture, complete a period of practical training or internship, and pass all divisions of the ARE (Architect Registration Examination). Many architects work over 50 hours a week and those hours include weekends and evenings. While they work in offices most of the time, they also have to visit construction sites to check up on the progress of the projects they have designed.
There are currently 8,030 Architecture job openings in Australia* . The average salary for an Architecture job in Australia is $100,153. The Australian Government Department of Employment estimates a projected employment growth to 2018 of 88,700 jobs for the Architecture industry in Australia. Employment in the Architecture industry in Australia. Australia has a population of 23,625,031, with a total of 11,645,500 people currently employed. The average job seeker age for Australia is 37 years and the current unemployment rate sits at 5.7%. Part-time workers make up 46% of the workforce in Australia.
Education. Earning a professional degree in architecture is the typical path to becoming an architect in all states. Most architects earn their professional degree through a 5-year Bachelor of Architecture degree program, intended for students with no previous architectural training. 
Salary.com puts the median income for entry-level architects just over $42,000 and the median income for a licensed architect with 12 years of experience at $113,000. Also, architecture requires long hours with lots of overtime. Training. Architecture requires a long training period, comparable to professions in medicine and law. The minimum training period is 8 years, which includes a 5-year bachelor degree and 3 years of internship. If you opt for the Master of Architecture, add a year or two to the overall total