The production of formed elements, or blood cells, is called hemopoiesis. Before birth, hemopoiesis occurs primarily in the liver and spleen, but some cells develop in the thymus, lymph nodes, and red bone marrow. When a stem cell divides, one of the daughters remains a stem cell and the other becomes a precursor cell, either a lymphoid cell or a myeloid cell. These cells continue to mature into various blood cells. A leukemia can develop at any point in cell differentiation.
The challenge is formidable as about 1 in every 10,000 to 15,000 bone marrow cells is thought to be a stem cell. In the blood stream the proportion falls to 1 in 100,000 blood cells. To this end, scientists began to develop tests for proving the self-renewal and the plasticity of HSCs. The stem cells that form blood and immune cells are known as hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). They are ultimately responsible for the constant renewal of blood—the production of billions of new blood cells each day.
The history of research on adult stem cells began more than 60 years ago. In the 1950s, researchers discovered that the bone marrow contains at least two kinds of stem cells. One population, called hematopoietic stem cells, forms all the types of blood cells in the body. A second population, called bone marrow stromal stem cells (also called mesenchymal stem cells, or skeletal stem cells by some), were discovered a few years later. IV. An adult stem cell is thought to be an undifferentiated cell, found among differentiated cells in a tissue or organ. The adult stem cell can renew itself and can differentiate to yield some or all of the major specialized cell types of the
Erythrocytes, or red blood cells, are the most abundant of the  formed elements of the blood. The other formed elements are  leukocytes (white blood cells) and thrombocytes … (platelets). erythrocytes (red blood cells) Erythrocytes (red blood cells or RBCs) platelets, for about 250,000-500,000 per mm3 of blood. Howev … er, within a group of  cells, such as white blood cells (WBCs), neutrophils comprise the  majority (50-65% on average, although this can vary greatly,  lymphocytes (25-45%), again varying greatly, and the rest of the  WBCs are in the single percentages, usually.
After birth, most production is limited to red bone marrow in specific regions, but some white blood cells are produced in lymphoid tissue. All types of formed elements develop from a single cell type -- stem cell (pleuripotential cells or hemocytoblasts). Seven different cell lines, each controlled by a specific growth factor, develop from the hemocytoblast. When a stem cell divides, one of the daughters remains a stem cell and the other becomes a precursor cell, either a lymphoid cell or a myeloid cell. These cells continue to mature into various blood cells. A leukemia can develop at any point in cell differentiation.
In fact, adult hematopoietic, or blood-forming, stem cells from bone marrow have been used in transplants for more than 40 years. Scientists now have evidence that stem cells exist in the brain and the heart, two locations where adult stem cells were not at first expected to reside. IV. An adult stem cell is thought to be an undifferentiated cell, found among differentiated cells in a tissue or organ. The adult stem cell can renew itself and can differentiate to yield some or all of the major specialized cell types of the
6  - cells and their derivatives-about 45% of the total blood volume (% of formed elements = the hematocrit)•erythrocytes-red blood cells•leukocytes-white blood cells•thrombocytes-platelets 5 X 10 6 /mm 3 5-10 X 10 3 /mm 3 150-200 X 10 3 /mm 3 Formed Elements Average 45% Hematocrit = % of formed elementsa.k.a. 
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are the blood cells that give rise to all the other blood cells and are derived from mesoderm. They are located in the red bone marrow, which is contained in the core of most bones. In order to harvest stem cells from the circulating peripheral blood, blood donors are injected with a cytokine, such as granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), that induces cells to leave the bone marrow and circulate in the blood vessels.
Technically yes they are because hemocytoblast stem cells create Myeloid stem cells and Lymphoid stem cells which produce all of the formed elements (white and red blood cells …). 1 Stem Cell Transplants and Leukemia A stem cell transplant is an infusion of healthy stem cells into your body. 2  The stem cells are collected from the blood of your umbilical cord, from the peripheral blood and 3  …. The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
HSCs are found in the bone marrow of adults, specially in the pelvis, femur, and sternum. They are also found in umbilical cord blood and, in small numbers, in peripheral blood. Stem and progenitor cells can be taken from the pelvis, at the iliac crest, using a needle and syringe. In order to harvest stem cells from the circulating peripheral blood, blood donors are injected with a cytokine, such as granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), that induces cells to leave the bone marrow and circulate in the blood vessels.