Treatments for phantosmia range from drug therapies (e.g., venlafaxine) and brain stimulation therapies to invasive surgical procedures involving removal of the olfactory bulbs or olfactory epithelium. The word phantosmia is a noun of Greek origin. Phantosmia is most likely to occur in women between the ages of 15 and 30 years. The time of the first hallucination(s) lasts from anywhere from five to twenty minutes. It has also been found that the second hallucination will occur approximately a month later in the same manner as the first.
Introduction. 'Phantosmia' is the medical term for an imaginary odour (phantom smell) . It is also known as an olfactory hallucination. The smell is unique to the person and is usually unpleasant, spoiling the taste of any food or drink consumed.It can be in one or both nostrils. Less commonly, the cause of phantosmia is either nerve cells sending abnormal smell signals to the brain, or a problem with the brain itself. This may be the result of: 1  a disease affecting the nervous system, such as epilepsy, Parkinson’s disease or Alzheimer’s disease. 2  a stroke.
Different types of phantosmia include: Unirhinal (single nostril), episodic, and recurrent, where the activation of brain's GABAergic system seems to play a role in the inhibition of the unirhinal phantosmia. Phantosmia is most likely to occur in women between the ages of 15 and 30 years. The time of the first hallucination(s) lasts from anywhere from five to twenty minutes. It has also been found that the second hallucination will occur approximately a month later in the same manner as the first.
Parosmia and Phantosmia. Parosmia involves a distortion of the sense of smell -- the affected person reports smelling something other than the scent which is present -- for example, the person sniffs a banana but it smells like rotting flesh instead of a banana. 
Phantosmia. Phantosmia is a form of olfactory hallucination. While most olfactory hallucinations are caused by a misinterpretation of a physical stimulus, such as in the case of parosmia, phantosmia is the perception of a smell in the absence of any physical odors. The odor can range from pleasant to a disgusting smell. 
A hallucination is the sensory perception of something with no basis in reality, as opposed to an olfactory illusion, which is a misinterpretation of a physical stimulus; in the case of an odor it is known as parosmia. Phantosmia is the perception of a smell in the complete absence of any physical odor. Phantosmia is most likely to occur in women between the ages of 15 and 30 years. The time of the first hallucination(s) lasts from anywhere from five to twenty minutes. It has also been found that the second hallucination will occur approximately a month later in the same manner as the first.
An olfactory hallucination (phantosmia) makes you detect smells that aren't really present in your environment. The odors detected in phantosmia vary from person to person and may be foul or pleasant. Consult your doctor if you experience the symptoms of phantosmia, so that your doctor can rule out any serious underlying disorders that may be causing the detected smell. Parosmia is another smell disorder that's similar to phantosmia. But, in parosmia a smell that's present in your environment is distorted. Parosmia can occur with damage to the olfactory system, such as after a severe respiratory infection. With
Phantosmia is an olfactory hallucination. A hallucination is the sensory perception of something with no basis in reality, as opposed to an olfactory illusion, which is a misinterpretation of a physical stimulus; in the case of an odor it is known as parosmia. Phantosmia is the perception of a smell in the complete absence of any physical odor.
People suffering from phantosmia may think they smell flowers when none are present. People with phantosmia may think they smell smoke where none is present. Phantosmia may be linked to tumors in the brain. Nasal drops made of saline solution may be prescribed to treat phantosmia. Phantosmia refers to a condition where people smell scents when no such smell is present. A physician may prescribe an antidepressant or sedative to treat phantosmia. 