Report Abuse. Usually hens will start to lay at 5-6 months of age. It all depends on there envinorment, health, and breed. Some hens like to lay durring hte day. They like nice soft bedding in a esting box that is approximatly 2 feet off the ground. And in a clean envinorment. Chickens will start laying at about 4-6 months.They need atleast 14 hours of light a day.Chickens may not lay eggs while they are moulting(white flakes falling out).
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
On average, pullets, or juvenile hens, start laying eggs at about 6 months of age, depending on the breed. Larger, heavier birds like Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks and Orpingtons will lay on the later side whereas lighter, smaller breeds like Leghorns, Stars, and Australorps will start laying sooner. 
Good layers will sometimes lay for about 50 or 60 weeks and then go through a rest period. As daylight hours decrease, egg laying is sometimes affected; hens need about 14 hours of daylight to lay eggs. Your chickens are probably molting (loosing their old feathers and growing new) while in their molt all the energy that normally goes into egg production goes into new feathers. They will start laying within 2-4 weeks, depending on the breed and age of the chicken.
1 Lighting programs influence egg size by accelerating or delaying the age at which hens start to lay eggs. 2  The younger a hen is when she starts egg production, the smaller her eggs will be during her first year of life. 1 Skeletal size has some impact on egg size. 2  Hens with bigger and longer bones tend to become bigger hens and lay bigger eggs. 3  The protein level in the ration fed before 10 weeks of age is the main factor influencing skeletal size of any particular breed of hen.
Here are the answers to those questions and many more. Hens and eggs. 1  Female chickens are called pullets for their first year or until they begin to lay eggs. 2  For most breeds, around 20 weeks is a typical age for the first egg. 3  Some breeds lay eggs daily, some every other day, some once or twice a week. 1 Yolkless eggs, also called no-yolkers, dwarf eggs or wind eggs, consist of egg white alone. 2  Occasionally an egg will come out with a wrinkly, misshapen, rough, bumpy, or unusually colored shell. 3  Egg size is dependent on breed, age, and weight of the hen.
Females over a year old are known as hens and younger females as pullets although in the egg-laying industry, a pullet becomes a hen when she begins to lay eggs at 16 to 20 weeks of age. In Australia and New Zealand (also sometimes in Britain), there is a generic term chook /ˈtʃʊk/ to describe all ages and both sexes. Chickens farmed for meat are called broiler chickens. Chickens will naturally live for 6 or more years, but broiler chickens typically take less than 6 weeks to reach slaughter size. A free range or organic meat chicken will usually be slaughtered at about 14
1 Female chickens are called pullets for their first year or until they begin to lay eggs. 2  For most breeds, around 20 weeks is a typical age for the first egg. 3  Some breeds lay eggs daily, some every other day, some once or twice a week. 1 Yolkless eggs, also called no-yolkers, dwarf eggs or wind eggs, consist of egg white alone. 2  Occasionally an egg will come out with a wrinkly, misshapen, rough, bumpy, or unusually colored shell. 3  Egg size is dependent on breed, age, and weight of the hen.
9 Egg production Young hens (pullets) begin to lay at 16 to 24 weeks of age, depending on breed and environmental conditions. Commercial egg-laying operations regulate the number of hours of light their chickens receive each day as a way to ensure an even, steady produc-tion of the maximum number of eggs. Twelve hens will produce an average of 9 or 10 eggs per day for several months, with the peak produc-tion at 32 to 34 weeks of age, and then may slow down until you are averaging only 6 eggs a day by the 12 th month af-ter laying begins.
No laying hen, however, can meet the ideal standard of laying a Large egg everyday. All hens start egg production laying Pee Wee or Small eggs and gradually increase to a mature egg grade size of Medium, Large or bigger. In modern breeds, most hens are laying Large, Extra Large or Jumbo eggs by 40 weeks of age. 1 Skeletal size has some impact on egg size. 2  Hens with bigger and longer bones tend to become bigger hens and lay bigger eggs. 3  The protein level in the ration fed before 10 weeks of age is the main factor influencing skeletal size of any particular breed of hen.