Universal recipients of the ABO blood type system are the individuals of type AB. Type AB blood does not contain anti-A or anti-B antibodies and people of this group can receive blood from any of the ABO types. 
A person with genotype AB has type AB blood, and a person with genotype OO has type O blood. A person with type A blood cannot receive type B blood. The reason is immunological. A person with type A blood does not have type B antigens; thus, his immune system considers the type B antigen to be foreign and attacks it. A person with type A blood can't receive type AB blood, either, for the same reason. He can, however, accept
A blood test of either type AB or type O is more informative. Someone with blood type AB must have both the A and B alleles. The genotype must be AB. Someone with blood type O has neither the A nor the B allele. The genotype must be OO. A blood test is used to determine whether the A and/or B characteristics are present in a blood sample. It is not possible to determine the exact genotype from a blood test result of either type A or type B. If someone has blood type A, they must have at least one copy of the A allele, but they could have two copies. Their genotype is either AA or AO. Similarly, someone who is blood type B could have a genotype of either BB or B
ABO blood type system. The ABO system consists of A, B, AB, and O blood types. People with type A have antibodies in the blood against type B. People with type B have antibodies in the blood against type A. People with AB have no anti-A or anti-B antibodies. People with type O have both anti-A and anti-B antibodies. People with type AB blood are called universal recipients, because they can receive any of the ABO types. People with type O blood are called universal donors, because their blood can be given to people with any of the ABO types.
7. A person with type A blood (unknown genotype) marries a person with type O blood. What blood types are possible among their children. (Show 2 crosses). Child can be type A or type O blood. 8. Two people, both with AB blood have four children
The results of blood typing will determine if a person is type A, B, AB, or O and if he or she is Rh negative or positive. The results will tell the healthcare provider what blood or blood components will be safe for the person to receive. 1 For example, people with blood group O have both anti-A and anti-B antibodies in their blood. 2  If a unit of blood that is group A, B, or AB is transfused to this person, the antibodies in the recipient's blood will react with the red blood cells, destroying them and causing potentially serious complications.
The A and B alleles are dominant to the O allele. When both inherited alleles are O, the genotpye is homozygous recessive and the blood type is O. When one of the inherited alleles is A and the other is B, the genotype is heterozygous and the blood type is AB. AB blood type is an example of co-dominance since both traits are expressed equally. 1  Type A: The genotype is either AA or AO. 2  Type B: The genotype is either BB or BO. 3  Type AB: The genotype is AB. 4  Type O: The genotype is OO. There are four main ABO blood type groupings: A, B, AB, and O. These blood groups are determined by the antigen on the blood cell surface and the antibodies present in the blood plasma. Antibodies (also called immunoglobulins) are specialized proteins that identify and defend against foreign intruders to the body.
Possible Blood Types: A, AB, B. 10. A person with type O blood is married to a person with type A blood (unknown genotype). They have 6 children, 3 of them have type A blood, three of them have type O blood. A person with type A blood (unknown genotype) marries a person with type O blood. What blood types are possible among their children. (Show 2 crosses). Child can be type A or