1 Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; chicken should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 2  To further extend the shelf life of raw chicken, freeze; when freezing, place chicken in the freezer before the number of days shown for refrigerator storage has elapsed. 1 How long does raw chicken last after the sell-by date? 2  After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
How long is safe to keep uncooked chicken in fridge? it is not recomended to keep a an uncooked chicken in the fridge for more than four days. Usually there is a date on the ham for how long you can keep it. Many times I find cured hams have a refrigeration life of a month or two. After you open it, it should be good … for 3+ days. Whatever you cannot eat within a couple of days, should be stored in the freezer with proper packaging.
Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.
The meat should be stored in the coldest section of the refrigerator. Chicken can be stored safely for 2 or 3 days in the refrigerator at 40°F or less. Chicken giblets and ground poultry should only be stored in the refrigerator for 1 day. If you are storing for a longer period of time, the chicken products should be frozen. 
1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 4  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 1 Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3
Cooked chicken could be good up to 4 days. Raw chicken is best used within 1 or 2 days. You should store the chicken in the coldest part of the refrigerator for best shelf life or put it in freezer if not used within that time frame. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.
(Also) I feel like I’m limited to what I can do with the chicken once its cooked. Thanks for your help, SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. 
How long to uncooked brats keep in the refrigerator?   Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 8 people found this useful. Usually there is a date on the ham for how long you can keep it. Many times I find cured hams have a refrigeration life of a month or two. After you open it, it should be good … for 3+ days. Whatever you cannot eat within a couple of days, should be stored in the freezer with proper packaging.
1 How long does raw chicken last after being frozen and thawed? 2  Chicken that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; chicken that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 How long does raw chicken last after the sell-by date? 2  After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
Best Answer: You can leave it in the refridgerator for 3-4 days (we are talking cooked chicken, not fresh/raw). But if you package it to freeze it, around 2-3 months. If you can vaccume seal it in the freezer, it will taste better after being thawed. Source(s): http://www.demesne.info/Home-Maintenance... 