The occupational therapy intervention process is based on the results of the evaluation and is individualized to include a variety of strategies and techniques that help clients maximize their ability to participate in daily activities at home, school (if relevant), work, and in the community environment. The scope of occupational therapy services for individuals with an autism spectrum disorder across the life course. American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 64 (Suppl.), S125–S136. Developed by Janie B. Scott, MA, FAOTA, for the American Occupational Therapy Association.
The Five-Minute Way to Spot Autism. When you think of occupational therapy, you probably think of skills that adults need to stay at work or work more efficiently. Autistic children have “work,” too, and they need skills to succeed in the tasks of daily living and learning. Wagner cautions that occupational therapy does not have the research behind it that other types of autism therapies, such as applied behavioral analysis, have, but it can have some benefits. “I always want extra therapies to help [children with autism] integrate into the classroom,” Wagner says.
In fact, occupational therapists aren't worried about jobs; they're focused on the activities that give daily life meaning. Occupational therapy helps patients recover or develop skills needed for the activities of daily living, including self-care, leisure, independent living and work. Therapists work in hospitals, in schools, in nursing homes and with patients in their own homes.
Occupational therapy is a health and rehabilitation profession. Occupational therapists work with people of all ages who need specialized assistance to lead independent, productive, and satisfying lives due to physical, developmental, social, or emotional problems. Occupational therapists use the occupations of self-care, work, and play/leisure activities to increase independence, enhance development, and/or prevent disability. To achieve these goals occupational therapists may also adapt the task or the environment.
Occupational therapists use special equipment to help children with developmental disabilities. Occupational therapists treat injured, ill, or disabled patients through the therapeutic use of everyday activities. They help these patients develop, recover, and improve the skills needed for daily living and working. 
Occupational therapy (OT) is the use of assessment and treatment to develop, recover, or maintain the daily living and work skills of people with a physical, mental, or cognitive disorder. Occupational therapists often work closely with professionals in physical therapy, speech therapy, nursing, social work, and the community.
Occupational therapists study human growth and development and a person’s interaction with the environment through daily activities. They are experts in the social, emotional, and physiological effects of illness and injury. This knowledge helps them promote skills for independent living in people with autism and other developmental disorders. Occupational therapists work as part of a team that includes parents, teachers, and other professionals. They help set specific goals for the person with autism. These goals often involve social interaction, behavior, and classroom performance. A person who has autism often has trouble communicating and interacting with other people; his or her interests, activities, and play skills may be limited. Occupational therapy may help people with autism develop these skills at home and in school.
Autism Resources. With so many practitioners working with persons with autism, AOTA has developed extensive resources on this topic, and this page organizes all of these resources in one area. Whether you're looking for news, Conference sessions, AJOT articles, books, research, or other tools, you can find it all here. 
Autism therapies are therapies that attempt to lessen the deficits and behaviours associated with autism and other autism spectrum disorders (ASD), and to increase the quality of life and functional independence of autistic individuals, especially children. Treatment is typically catered to the child's needs. 
Occupational therapy may be recommended to help a child or adult with autism spectrum disorder cope better with daily tasks, socialising and work or school tasks. By working on these skills during occupational therapy, a child with autism may also do the following: 1  Develop peer and adult relationships. 2  Learn how to focus on tasks. 3  Learn how to delay gratification.