Education. Certification as a registered dietitian requires a bachelor’s degree in dietetics, nutrition or a related field from an accredited university. Those aspiring for certification should take high-level courses in biochemistry, physiology, food chemistry, anatomy, culinary arts and nutrition science. This increased to $27.88 for all registered dietitians regardless of experience. Dietitians earned the least in inpatient hospital settings ($25.96) and the most in food and nutrition management ($34.13). The median annual salary for registered dietitians with a year or more of experience was $59,300
A registered dietitian (RD) or registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN), is a dietitian who meets all of a set of special academic and professional requirements, including: 1  the completion of a bachelor's degree with an accredited nutrition curriculum. 
See the CDR website for up to date details. A $200.00 fee is required for Registered Dietitian (RD) applicants and $120.00 for those wishing to become Dietetic Technicians, Registered (DTR). A varied length examination, each RD candidate will be given an exam between 125 and 145 questions. DTR candidates will have between 110 and 130 questions. These accreditations may be earned through the CDR or a number of other medical and nutritional professional bodies. Moreover, many states have their own requirements for Registered Dietitians. Many of these requirements can be met through the process used by the national accreditation of the CDR.
Education. Most dietitians and nutritionists have a bachelor’s degree in dietetics, foods and nutrition, food service systems management, clinical nutrition, or a related area. Programs include courses in nutrition, psychology, chemistry, and biology. 
you can earn a registered dietitian credential through the american dietetic association s commission on dietetic registration cdr after earning a bachelor s or master s degree in an area like dietetics or human nutrition and complete a dietetic internship program registered dietitian certification and license requirements find out the job duties and licensure requirements for registered dietitians rds learn about education programs designed to prepare you for a career as an rd schools offering nutrition degrees can also be found in these popular choices
Registered Dietitian Education Requirements. Dietitians are typically required to have at least a bachelor's degree in nutrition or dietetics. Common courses include nutritional assessment, clinical nutrition, food systems management and nutrient metabolism. In addition to coursework, students may complete seminars, research, clinical experiences and internships.
Educational Requirements for Dietitians. The minimum requirement for a career in dietetics is a bachelor's degree; however, some dietitians hold graduate degrees. There were 279 bachelor's and 18 master's degree programs approved by the Dietetic Association's (ADA) Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education (CADE) in 2009 (www.eatright.org). Dietitians must hold at least a bachelor's degree in dietetics, nutrition or another health science field. Some colleges and universities offer Bachelor of Science in Dietetics programs comprised of didactic curricula approved by the ADA.
Print Email. A registered dietitian nutritionist is a food and nutrition expert who has met academic and professional requirements including: 1  Earned a bachelor's degree with course work approved by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics' Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) . 