OPC is implemented in server/client pairs. The OPC server is a software program that converts the hardware communication protocol used by a PLC into the OPC protocol. The OPC client software is any program that needs to connect to the hardware, such as an HMI. The OPC client uses the OPC server to get data from or send commands to the hardware. The OPC DataHub is uniquely designed to do all of these tasks.
OPC is the interoperability standard for the secure and reliable exchange of data in the industrial automation space and in other industries. It is platform independent and ensures the seamless flow of information among devices from multiple vendors.
See footnotes for more details. OPC is implemented in server/client pairs. The OPC server is a software program that converts the hardware communication protocol used by a PLC into the OPC protocol. The OPC client software is any program that needs to connect to the hardware, such as an HMI. The OPC client uses the OPC server to get data from or send commands to the hardware. The OPC DataHub is uniquely designed to do all of these tasks.
An OPC Server is a software application, that has been written to one of the OPC Specifications. An OPC Server will respond to requests, and provide data to one or more OPC Clients in a standard, consistent manner. Any compliant OPC Client can interface with, and request data from any compliant OPC Server, regardless of the vendor, or the underlying system providing the data.
It is a combination OPC server and OPC client that supports multiple connections. Thus it can connect to several OPC servers simultaneously, for OPC aggregation and OPC bridging. Two OPC DataHubs can mirror data across a TCP network to provide OPC tunnelling.
An OPCWare™ Modbus OPC Server is an example of an OPC server. An OPC client such as an application created with OPCWare Client Developer is an OPC data consumer. It is typically a visualization or database application which present or uses the OPC data provided by OPC servers.
Download OPC Client. All of the OPC Specifications are based on the OPC Client/Server model. Client/Server describes the relationship between two computer applications in which one application, the OPC client, makes a service request from another application, the OPC Server, which fulfills the request.