A Bachelors or Honours Level covers degrees with titles such as Bachelor of Arts, BA (Hons), Bachelor of Science, BSc (Hons), Bachelor of Engineering, BEng (Hons), Bachelor of Laws, and LLB (Hons). These are standard higher education qualifications recognised across the UK and Europe.
The postgraduate Bachelor's degree With Honours or Baccalaureatus Cum Honore degree is a consecutive academic degree. It’s the continuation of a completed (Honours) Bachelor's degree program in the same field.
A Bachelor’s degree, or Bachelor’s degree (Hons), are both academic degrees given to undergraduate students. Though these two are both academic degrees, they only have a very slight difference. In many countries, the bachelor’s degree is differentiated as an ordinary, or pass degree, and honours degree.
If you are doing, or have done, particularly well in your Bachelor degree, you should consider an Honours degree. This normally involves one additional year of study following the successful completion of a three-year undergraduate degree.
In most countries, using the undergraduate Honours grading system, the term Honours (or Honors in the United States) is an academic distinction, which indicates that students must achieve their bachelor's degree with a sufficiently high overall grade point average.
A non-honours degree is also sometimes known as an ordinary degree or pass degree. Achievement of an honours degree is denoted by the appearance of the letters (Hons) after the degree abbreviation-for example BA (Hons). An honours degree is still a Bachelor's degree.
A Degree with Honours. A degree 'with honours' is usually awarded in the last year of a four year Bachelor degree to students who obtain defined honours grades (such as an H1) in specified course components. Sometimes students are required to include a research project or thesis as a fourth year elective subject.
In Ireland an Honours Degree takes for years to complete (three years in the UK). What determines if you have a 1st (1.1), 2.1, 2.2 or 3.0 depends on your final grade in your last year or your average on graduating. A 1.1 is anything over 70%, a 2.1 is 60% and over, 2.2 50% and a 3rd class is anything below that.
In South Africa, non-professional bachelor's degrees (BA, BSc, BCom) are three year degrees (professional degrees such as engineering degrees or medicine are longer). The honours degree is an optional fourth-year and is an additional one-year qualification.