1 High cholesterol can lead to blockage in the carotid artery that takes blood from the neck to the brain. 2  A piece of this plaque can break off and travel to the brain, causing a stroke. 3  Obesity can cause high blood pressure and high cholesterol. In some patients, atherosclerosis, specifically in the carotid artery in the neck, can lead to ischemic stroke. Plaque in the carotid artery may result in a stroke by either decreasing blood flow to the brain or by breaking loose and floating into a smaller vessel, depriving a portion of the brain of blood flow.
Hai described atherosclerosis as a sort of “cancer of blood vessels” which leads to plaque build-up and clogged arteries. “Cigarette smoke contains thousands of chemicals, but nicotine is the major chemical that causes cigarette addiction,” Hai said in a statement to Healthline. 
When the arterial plaque builds up in the arteries carrying blood to your heart it leads to coronary artery disease or heart disease. If plaque builds up in the carotid arteries that run up your neck it can cut the supply of oxygen to the brain. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood all around the body from your brain to your big toe. Blood flows easily through smoothly lined arteries but if your arteries are clogged the blood flow is reduced or stopped altogether.
Although some harmful chemicals have been found in e-cigarettes, far more are inhaled during tobacco smoking and at least 5,300 individual chemicals have been identified in cigarette smoke – this is compared to only approximately seven mostly benign chemicals found in e-cigarette vapour. The main benefit of licensing e-cigarettes as an over-the-counter medicine has been in helping smokers quit; an area in which they show a lot of promise. Studies have concluded that the physical act of smoking appears to reduce cigarette cravings even when no nicotine is inhaled.
Plaque is made up of different substances in your blood like fat, cholesterol, calcium and cellular waste. When it builds up on your artery walls the cells in the artery respond by secreting a substance that further clogs your blood vessels, leading to a condition called atherosclerosis. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood all around the body from your brain to your big toe. Blood flows easily through smoothly lined arteries but if your arteries are clogged the blood flow is reduced or stopped altogether.
Smoking Clogs Your Arteries. Smoking cigarettes is known to contribute to the development of atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis occurs when there is narrowing and clogging of the arteries which reduces blood supply, and the amount of oxygen available, throughout the body. 1. Home Why quit Health warnings.
Like any plumbing system, your arteries can get clogged up. When you have high blood pressure, inflammation causes cholesterol to stick to the walls of your blood vessels, forming a plaque. These antioxidant-rich foods work by reducing toxic LDL cholesterol, which is formed by a rusting process in your arteries. They can help stop the “rust” in its tracks and even prevent it from spreading. Eat 1 cup of cantaloupe or 1 kiwi a day to unclog
Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. Plaque is made of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin (a clotting material in the blood). Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis. 
Print. Like any plumbing system, your arteries can get clogged up. When you have high blood pressure, inflammation causes cholesterol to stick to the walls of your blood vessels, forming a plaque. The following foods are powerful enough to prevent this dangerous clogging. These antioxidant-rich foods work by reducing toxic LDL cholesterol, which is formed by a rusting process in your arteries. They can help stop the “rust” in its tracks and even prevent it from spreading. Eat 1 cup of cantaloupe or 1 kiwi a day to unclog