For example, most adults, even if they are healthy, should have screening for high cholesterol levels at least once. This is probably the most common 'routine test' that doctors would do at a physical examination. Additionally, many doctors will screen for diabetes with blood tests. Depending on whether your blood pressure was elevated, they may also screen for kidney problems.
Blood tests help doctors check for certain diseases and conditions. They also help check the function of your organs and show how well treatments are working. Specifically, blood tests can help doctors: 1  Evaluate how well organs—such as the kidneys, liver, thyroid, and heart—are working. Overview. Blood tests are very common. When you have routine checkups, your doctor may recommend blood tests to see how your body is working. Many blood tests don't require any special preparations. For some, you may need to fast (not eat any food) for 8 to 12 hours before the test.
Blood tests show whether the levels of different substances in your blood fall within a normal range. For many blood substances, the normal range is the range of levels seen in 95 percent of healthy people in a certain group. For many tests, normal ranges vary depending on your age, gender, race, and other factors. Your blood test results may fall outside the normal range for many reasons. The table below shows some normal ranges for different parts of the complete blood count (CBC) test. Some of the normal ranges differ between men and women. Other factors, such as age and race, also may affect normal ranges. Your doctor should discuss your results with you.
Sadly, most annual medical check-ups involve the physician ordering only routine blood tests, if blood tests are ordered at all. Far too often, this blood work does not even test for important markers of disease risk. 
Such tests check your cholesterol levels, your full blood count, sugar level, liver function etc. Sometimes it can tell if you have an infection too (for example by checking your ESR or white cell count [don't know the proper term for this sorry]). Source(s): RS · 7 years ago. · just now. Report Abuse. This is what I test when people come in to the ER: Electrolytes-Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, Bicarbonate-these are required for nerve, muscle, and heart function. The levels are controlled by the kidneys so it gives you some idea of kidney function and water balance.
This is a great question because the phrase 'routine blood tests' is common in doctors ' offices, and sometimes it is not very well explained! When you have a physical examination, there are several blood tests that are commonly done, depending on your age and your risk factors. This is probably the most common 'routine test' that doctors would do at a physical examination. Additionally, many doctors will screen for diabetes with blood tests. Depending on whether your blood pressure was elevated, they may also screen for kidney problems.
...examinations. But routine blood tests -- or pap tests that are part of routine gynecological exams -- do not automatically include a test for HIV. The CDC, amfAR and other leading voices say they should
A blood test is taking a sample of blood for testing in a laboratory. Blood tests have a wide range of uses and are one of the most common types of medical test. For example, a blood test can be used to: 1  assess your general state of health. 2  confirm the presence of a bacterial or viral infection. 3  see how well certain organs, such as the liver and kidneys, are functioning. A blood test usually involves taking a blood sample from a blood vessel in your arm. The arm is a convenient part of the body to use because it can be easily uncovered. The usual place for a sample to be taken from is the inside of the elbow or wrist, where the veins are relatively close to the surface.