Photograph by Peter Essick. The snowy peaks of the Andes spawn thousands of gushing streams and waterfalls in Patagonia. From majestic mountains to trembling volcanoes, Patagonia remains the unspoiled frontier of South America. Photograph by Peter Essick. Settlements, like this twinkling village built between the mountains and the sea, are few and far between in Patagonia. The 260,000-square-mile (673,000-square-kilometer) region is so sparsely settled that population density is as low as one person per square mile in some areas.
Patagonia is a sparsely populated region located at the southern end of South America, shared by Argentina and Chile. The name Patagonia comes from the word patagon patagón used By magellan in 1520 to describe the native people that his expedition thought to be. giants
Patagonia. The most famous region of Chile, Chilean Patagonia offers all the dramatic landscape one would expect from the world's ultimate land's end. Here the South American continent falls away in a dazzling explosion of islands, glaciers, icebergs and mountains. It is truly one of mother nature's grand finales. Chilean Patagonia is itself composed of two sub-regions; the northern Aisen and, to its south, Magallanes.
Photograph by Peter Essick. Sunset casts a rosy glow over granite peaks encircling a glacial lake in Torres del Paine National Park, Chile. Chile's prized jewel, the 598,000-acre (242,000-hectare) national park is a mosaic of landforms including soaring mountains, golden pampas, and grinding ice fields. At the southern tip of South America, the region of Patagonia includes parts of Argentina and Chile. Photograph by Peter Essick. Settlements, like this twinkling village built between the mountains and the sea, are few and far between in Patagonia. The 260,000-square-mile (673,000-square-kilometer) region is so sparsely settled that population density is as low as one person per square mile in some areas.
The Patagonia Mountains are a 15 miles (24 km) long mountain range within the Coronado National Forest, and in Santa Cruz County, Arizona. The connected Santa Rita, Patagonia, and Sierra San Antonio ranges are part of the Madrean Sky Islands ecoregion, the sky island mountain ranges region on the north of the Sierra Madre Occidental, the major cordillera and mountain ecoregion of central-western and northwestern Mexico.
The region comprises the southern section of the Andes mountains as well as the deserts, steppes and grasslands east of this southern portion of the Andes. Patagonia has two coasts; a western one towards the Pacific Ocean and an eastern one towards the Atlantic Ocean. The name Patagonia comes from the word patagon patagón used By magellan in 1520 to describe the native people that his expedition thought to be. giants
Destination Patagonia. Patagonia is located in the southern tip of South America. It includes many areas of Argentina (or the Oriental side) and Chile (occidental side) and incluces the Andes mountains to the west and south, with plateaus and low plains to the east. Colorado River, Barrancas River, Tierra de Fuego and the Pampa Province are some locations that belong to Argentina's territory. Patagonia is an ideal area for outdoor activities such as camping, hiking, and trekking. There are several national parks, mountains, and forests. Its fast flowing rivers are perfect for rafting and canoeing. North Patagonia has many interesting volcanoes in both Argentina and Chile.
Patagonia Facts. 1. Patagonia is dominated by the Andes, the longest mountain range on earth, running the length of South America from Colombia to the Strait of Magellan and across to Tierra del Fuego. 
Patagonia Lake and the town of Patagonia are located in the Sonoita Valley. The Sierra San Antonio are a continuation of the Patagonia Mountains southwards into Mexico, a mountain range of about 10 miles that tapers down to lower elevations. The old mining camps and ghost towns of Mowry, Washington Camp, Harshaw, and Duquesne are located in the Patagonia Mountains. Nogales, Arizona, and Nogales, Sonora, are in the valley to the southwest of the mountain range. The San Rafael Valley and Canelo Hills are to the east of the Patagonia Mountains. The connected Santa Rita, Patagonia, and Sierra San Antonio ranges are part of the Madrean Sky Islands ecoregion, the sky island mountain ranges region on the north of the Sierra Madre Occidental, the major cordillera and mountain ecoregion of central-western and northwestern Mexico.