Garuda Purana. The Garuda Purana is one of the eighteen Puranas which are part of the Hindu body of texts known as smriti. It is a Vaishnava purana; the epic is in the form of a conversation between Lord Vishnu and Garuda (King of Birds), primarily emphasizing the reason and meaning of human life. The Padma Purana categorizes the Garuda Purana as a Sattva Purana (a purana which represents goodness and purity).
Less... Indian Puranas constitute one of the richest sources of Hindu Literature as well as mythology. They contain some important components of both Hinduism as well as Buddhism. The Puranas narrate various stories about the Gods and the Goddesses, rights and rituals and hymns. These scriptures have been passed from one generation to the other, either by word of mouth or stored scriptures. 
Namaste » sastra » Purāṇas. Purana (Sanskrit: पुराण purāṇa, meaning  belonging to ancient or olden times ) is the name of an ancient Indian genre (or a group of related genres) of Hindu literature (as distinct from oral tradition). Its general themes are history, tradition and religion. Besides the two major types of puranas namely the Maha-puranas and Upa-puranas, there are other two Hindu puranas namely, Sthala puranas, Kula puranas and others. Sthala puranas: These texts narrates the virtues and stories connected with a certain temple or shrine (the word `Sthala` means `Place` in Sanskrit).
The word Puranas (Sanskrit: पुराण, purāṇa, /pʊˈrɑːnəz/ ;) literally means ancient, old, and it is a vast genre of Indian literature about a wide range of topics particularly myths, legends and other traditional lore. The Puranas do not enjoy the authority of a scripture in Hinduism, but are considered a Smriti. They have been influential in the Hindu culture, inspiring major national and regional annual festivals of Hinduism.
The Puranas. The Shiv Puran is the purana dedicated to Lord Shiva, one of the most important divinities in the Hindu way of life. Several editions of the Shiv Puran are available in the public domain in the PDF format for download in English, Hindi, Sanskrit, Telugu and Kannada
The Hindu Puranas are anonymous texts and likely the work of many authors over the centuries; in contrast, most Jaina Puranas can be dated and their authors assigned. There are 18 Maha Puranas (Great Puranas) and 18 Upa Puranas (Minor Puranas), with over 400,000 verses. The first versions of the various Puranas were likely composed between the 3rd-and 10th-century CE. The Puranas do not enjoy the authority of a scripture in Hinduism, but are considered a Smriti. They have been influential in the Hindu culture, inspiring major national and regional annual festivals of Hinduism.
The Puranas (Sanskrit: पुराण purāṇa, of ancient times) are Hindu religious texts that are part of the Vedas. They contain narratives about the history of the Universe from creation to destruction and the genealogies of kings, heroes, sages, and demigods. Some of the Puranas are discourses on cosmology, geography and Hindu philosophy. They are usually written in the form of a dialogue. Vyasa, the narrator of the Mahabharata, is traditionally considered the compiler of the Puranas.
A Murti is an embodiment of the divine, the Ultimate Reality or Brahman to some Hindus. In religious context, they are found in Hindu temples or homes, where they may be treated as a beloved guest and serve as a participant of Puja rituals in Hinduism. A Murti (Sanskrit: मूर्ति, IAST: Mūrti) literally means any form, embodiment or solid object, and typically refers to an image, statue or idol of a deity or person in Indian culture.