Pressure (symbol: p or P) is the force applied perpendicular to the surface of an object per unit area over which that force is distributed. Gauge pressure (also spelled gage pressure) is the pressure relative to the local atmospheric or ambient pressure. Various units are used to express pressure. Pressure may also be expressed in terms of standard atmospheric pressure; the atmosphere (atm) is equal to this pressure and the torr is defined as 1⁄760 of this.
Normal Blood Pressure. Normal blood pressure for adults is defined as a systolic pressure below 120 mmHg and a diastolic pressure below 80 mmHg. It is normal for blood pressures to change when you sleep, wake up, or are excited or nervous. When you are active, it is normal for your blood pressure to increase. 
Full Definition of PRESSURE. 1. a: the burden of physical or mental distress b: the constraint of circumstance: the weight of social or economic imposition. 2. : the application of force to something by something else in direct contact with it: compression. 3. archaic: impression, stamp. 4. Medical Definition of PRESSURE. 1. : the burden of mental or physical distress especially from grief, illness, or adversity
Gas pressure is defined as a the force of when it pushes out, and when its divided by the area of whatever it is in. Intensity of pressure is defined as the normal force per unit area on which the force acts. Intensity of pressure, p=f/a f=force exerted a=area on which force acts. 27 people found this useful. Edit
Pressure is an expression of force exerted on a surface per unit area. The standard unit of pressure is the pascal (Pa), equivalent to one newton per meter squared (N/m 2 or N · m -2). Alternatively, pressure can be measured in dyne s per centimeter squared (dyn/cm 2 or dyn · cm -2). To convert from pascals to dynes per centimeter squared, multiply by 10. Conversely, multiply by 0.1.
. Atmospheric Pressure force exerted by the weight of the air. Atmospheric pressure is defined as the force per unit area exerted against a surface by the weight of the air above that surface. In the diagram below, the pressure at point X increases as the weight of the air above it increases
Pressure. Pressure is defined as force per unit area. It is usually more convenient to use pressure rather than force to describe the influences upon fluid behavior. But when you deal with a gas pressure, it must be approached as an average pressure from molecular collisions with the walls. Pressure in a fluid can be seen to be a measure of energy per unit volume by means of the definition of work.
The standard atmosphere (symbol: atm) is a unit of pressure defined as 101325 Pa (1.01325 bar). It is sometimes used as a reference or standard pressure. 