Florida. Florida 627.6562 allows for dependent children up to 25, who live with their parent or are a student, and up to 30 years old, who are also unmarried and have no dependent child of their own, to remain on their parents' insurance. Ga. Code § 33-30-4 allows dependent children up to age 25 who are enrolled as a full-time student at least five months during the year or are eligible to enroll but are prevented due to illness or injury
Confidence votes 36. Parents are responsible until the age of majority, which is 18, although in some states the child can choose to leave home at 17 and cannot be forced to return (a loophole created by state law allowing a child to go to jail at 17). Ina strange twist, in those states (like Georgia) should the child leave at 17, the parents are legally responsible for some of their actions until 18.
The age at which a child legally becomes an adult varies from state to state, but in most states that age is 18. Most states that have parental responsibility laws have established the rule that parents can be held responsible for the acts of their child only until the child reaches 18 years of age. However, at least one state has expanded parental responsibility to include children up to 21 years of age in certain situations.
Is a parent legally responsible in new york state for a child of 18 years old? Parents need to support their children in NY, until they reach the age of 21. However, there are exceptions: IF an 18 year old or older, leaves on his own, he/she cannot s … ue for support. IF there is a support order from another state, then that order is primary for that child. 
show more I don't understand how at the age of 18, a person can be an adult, and entirely independent yet the parents are still financially responsible for them until they're 21. Perhaps it's only in the U.S or something, but I couldn't find anything relating to it. Does anyone know if parents are... 
Parents are responsible to teach their kids right from wrong. Parents are responsible to teach their children the correct path, so if a child does something wrong, the parents should be held responsible. However, it should depend on the age of the child. For example, if the child is 16 or 17, then they have more autonomy and choice, so parents should not be held responsible. As parents are responsible for the educating and disciplining their child, they are also responsible for that child's actions. It is a parent's duty to teach their children responsible behavior. They must see that a child knows right from wrong, and discipline the child if he or she misbehaves.
you are responsible for the actions of your child until they are 18. However, if they commit an illegal act, I don't think that they parents should be punished because they didn't actually commit the crime. I know all kinds of kids that think they are adults and their parents let them run wild. · just now. Report Abuse. you are legally responsible for your children until they turn 18, if your child commits a crime and they are under 18 then yes to some extent the parents could be held responsible but it doesnt necessarily mean the parents were aware of what thier kids were doing at the time.
Though, in some countries age eighteen seems to be the period when a child is mature. Good parents should be responsible for upkeep of their children until they can successfully fend for themselves physically, mentally and spiritually. after giving them relevant educational and or professional training. 