You can expect to have the same symptoms as with a singleton pregnancy, however, the signs and symptoms of twins happen earlier and can be more intense. Since 1980, twin births have increased 70 percent. In 2009, three of every one hundred babies born in the United States were multiples.
One of the first signs that you could be carrying twins or multiples is a pregnancy test that registers high levels of HCG early in the pregnancy. HCG, or human chorionic gonadotropin, is a hormone your body produces when you re pregnant. Urine tests for pregnancy look for the presence of this hormone.
Well, if this is in fact your first pregnancy, and you are also experiencing one or more of the other twin pregnancy symptoms and/or signs mentioned, you may have a better indication.
Knowing the general signs of pregnancy, as well as the signs of a twin pregnancy, can help you to know whether you have become pregnant, and if you have become pregnant with twins. The first sign of pregnancy for many women is a missed period.
Women carrying multiples of have higher levels of hCG. Since other factors can cause elevated levels, you won't know for sure if you're having twins, yet. During the early second trimester, your midwife or doctor will offer an alphafetoprotein screening.
For a twin pregnancy, these signs and symptoms are often exaggerated. The extra hormones that a woman who is pregnant with twins has can make breasts even more tender, make you more tired, make you need to urinate even more frequently, and, unfortunately, cause more morning sickness or nausea.
A multiples pregnancy can run in certain families. Also, some mothers may have an intuitive feeling that they are pregnant with multiples. Remember that many of these signs can have other causes, and the only way to be 100% positive that you are carrying multiples is through ultrasound confirmation.
If you are expecting twins and don't know what to expect, you are not alone. Many women pregnant with twins have no idea what to expect, but that doesn't mean they -- and you -- can't learn. So here is some information to help you understand what's happening when you're expecting twins.