Share to: Ductility is the characteristic of a metal or another material that allows it to be drawn or rolled to be made longer without the material breaking. To get a little more techn …. 12 people found this useful. Ductile metals are metals that can be pulled into long, thin lengths without breaking. Some metals are more easilly formed in this way that others, so some aremore ductile tha … n others.   Gold and copper are examples of highly ductile metals
Ductility and malleability are not always coextensive – for instance, while gold has high ductility and malleability, lead has low ductility but high malleability. The word ductility is sometimes used to encompass both types of plasticity. Ductility can be quantified by the fracture strain, which is the engineering strain at which a test specimen fractures during a uniaxial tensile test. Another commonly used measure is the reduction of area at fracture.
This tensile test of a nodular cast iron demonstrates low ductility. In materials science, ductility is a solid material's ability to deform under tensile stress; this is often characterized by the material's ability to be stretched into a wire. Ductility can be quantified by the fracture strain, which is the engineering strain at which a test specimen fractures during a uniaxial tensile test. Another commonly used measure is the reduction of area at fracture.
Ad. When the ductility of a material needs to be determined, a commonly used method is the bend test. A wire or thin sheet of the material is placed in a machine that applies force to a certain spot at a specific angle. A specific amount of force is exerted onto the material for a given amount of time. Gold and silver are ranked as the most ductile metals. While steel is a common metal used in manufacturing and engineering, its ability to stretch can change depending on the elements in the steel itself.
Farmer’s Copper Ltd. maintains an extensive inventory of ductile iron in both 65-45-12 and 80-55-06. Our inventory consists of both solid and rectangle bar. Due to its ferritic structure, 65-45-12 is not intended for hardening. Hardening is achieved using 80-55-06. 
Ductility and malleability are two aspects of the plasticity of solid materials. In metals, ductility and malleability are very high due to their ability to sustain large amounts of plastic deformations within the crystal structure. Platinum is the most ductile material, and gold is the most malleable material. Ductility. Ductility is the ability of a solid material to undergo tensile stress. This property of a solid material can be measured and describes the extent to which the solid material can be plastically deformed without fracture. It is often depicted by the ability of the solid to stretch into a wire when pulled at the ends. Ductility vs Malleability. In common language, ductility refers to the ability to be deformed without losing toughness; that is pliable, but not brittle. Malleable means the ability to be hammered or pressed into shape without breaking or cracking.
Ductility is the ability of material, such as steel, to be drawn out into thin wires or flat sheets without pulling apart or breaking. Gold and silver are ranked as the most ductile metals. While steel is a common metal used in manufacturing and engineering, its ability to stretch can change depending on the elements in the steel itself.