salt lassi drink. Salted lassi, India’s traditional drink, is one of the best healthy drinks recipes to beat the heat and protects us from sun strokes. Similar to the sweet lassi recipe I blogged earlier, the ingredients to make salted lassi recipe are also minimal. 
1 The Lassi is a probiotic that influences the growth of healthy bacteria in the gut and reduces the bad bacteria. 2  Lassi is rich in protein; therefore it is good for the development of body muscles. 3  The body builders benefit greatly with Lassi as a daily drink. 1 Lassi also gives instant energy as it has a lot of glucose. 2  The Lassi is a probiotic that influences the growth of healthy bacteria in the gut and reduces the bad bacteria. 3  Lassi is rich in protein; therefore it is good for the development of body muscles.4
Posted by Teresa Cutter on Tuesday, January 28, 2014 · 16 Comments. This purely delicious mango lassi is what I love to enjoy for a quick and healthy breakfast after an early morning bike ride. I normally like to freeze the mango or other fruit I am using, so it’s icy cold and creamy when i’ve blended my lassi. 
Cook. This is so yummy, I am addicted. I wanted a lassi like the ones from my Indian place, but with less fat and sugar. Super smooth, and really satisfies that need for a smoothie or ice cream, while being very healthy! My kids love this too. The mango taste is so distinctive, the stevia is undetectable.
Lassi is one of the most commonly available summer drinks in India. It is filling, tasty and very healthy as well. Lassi has lot of health benefits. The drink is prepared using yogurt or curd. Yogurt is sour fermented form of milk. It has healthy bacteria which helps in preventing or treating urinary infections. One of the main health benefits of yogurt is that it is very good for the stomach. Yogurt cools the stomach and helps disperse body heat. So, having lassi rich in yogurt brings it share of health benefits
Healthy Mango Lassi. 5 5. This is a wonderful recipe! Based on the other reviews, I made half of this recipe and got 2 1/2 large glasses out of it. Just enough for my husband, son, and I. I used 1/2 cup Greek yogurt and 1 cup plain yogurt and about 1/2 a bag of frozen mango.
Lassi is a blend of yogurt, water, spices and sometimes, fruit. Traditional lassi (a.k.a., salted lassi, or simply, lassi) is a savoury drink, sometimes flavoured with ground and roasted cumin. Sweet lassi, however, contains sugar or fruits, instead of spices. Salted mint lassi is highly favoured in Bangladesh. In Dharmic religions, yogurt sweetened with honey is used while performing religious rituals. Less common is lassi served with milk and topped with a thin layer of clotted cream
Intake of Lassi replaces healthy bacteria in the body. Lassi takes just one hour to digest compared to three hours for milk digestion. Lassi is filled with countless numbers of beneficial, about 30,000 bacterias, that help in the digestion and kills harmful viruses. It is very good to take freshly prepared Lassi. 1 Lassi also gives instant energy as it has a lot of glucose. 2  The Lassi is a probiotic that influences the growth of healthy bacteria in the gut and reduces the bad bacteria. 3  Lassi is rich in protein; therefore it is good for the development of body muscles.4  The body builders benefit greatly with Lassi as a daily drink.
I turned this drink into a fruit lassi by adding some banana and mango. I used about 2 cups of yogurt. I also used 1/2 milk and 1/2 water and added some cardamom and rose water to give a little...ere is a basic recipe for Indian Lassi (yogurt drink). You can add more or less yogurt or water for a thicker or thinner beverage. For a salty lassi, you can substitute 1/2 teaspoon salt for the sugar. Garnish with fresh mint if desired..