Caves, Arches, Stacks and Stumps. Headlands, once formed, are exposed to the full force of the sea. As a result of wave refraction, destructive waves concentrate their energy on all three sides of the headland and so it slowly erodes overtime. In doing so, quite distinct features develop. Coasts of erosion form as a result of high energy waves, large fetch, high exposure and limited deposition. They are also associated with drift alligned coasts that are influenced by longshore drift.
Headlands and bays. Bay and headland in New Zealand. Headlands are formed when the sea attacks a section of coast with alternating bands of hard and soft rock. The bands of soft rock, such as sand and clay, erode more quickly than those of more resistant rock, such as chalk. This leaves a section of land jutting out into the sea called a headland. The areas where the soft rock has eroded away, next to the headland, are called bays. Geology is the study of the types of rocks that make up the Earth's crust.
1 12. 2  Textbook p. 145 1.2 Wave refractionWave refraction causes headlands to be the focus of wave energy and thus the focus of erosion.Wave energy is weakened along the wider stretches in the bays, so waves deposit sediments at bays. 3  13. 1 3. Textbook p. 144 Headlands and baysHeadlands and bays form along a coast that is made up of bands of rock with v a r y ing r e s i s t a n c e to erosion. 2  This means that, the rate at which a coast is eroded depends partly on rock resistance
These features are formed on cliffs or headlands. Waves attack vertical lines of weakness in the rock known as Faults. Processes such as hydraulic action and abrasion widen these faults into cracks and eventually the waves will penetrate deeply enough to create caves. 
The formation of a headland is a testament to the awesome power of time, tide, wind, and waves as they combine to form the ever changing landscape of our coastlines. A headland is defined as a resistant outcropping of rock jutting out into the sea and surrounded by water on three sides. Headlands are formed as the result of coastal erosion and the tremendous battering power of the sea and its waves coupled with ice, rain, and wind. First, it’s important to understand the different types of rock that comprise a headland because not all rocks will erode at the same rate. Stronger rocks will hold out for much greater lengths of time in the face of waves, ice, wind, and rain than their weaker counterparts will.
Wave refraction at the headland decreases deposition at the headland and causes erosion in adjacent bays. Wave refraction at the headland INCREASES EROSION at the headland and causes deposition in adjacent bays. 
Orthogonals converge on headlands and diverge in bays, which concentrates wave energy on the headlands and dissipates wave energy in the bays. In the formation of sea cliffs, wave erosion undercuts the slopes at the shoreline, which retreat landward. Bays form where weak (less resistant) rocks (such as sands and clays) are eroded, leaving bands of stronger (more resistant) rocks (such as chalk, limestone, granite), which form a headland or peninsula.
Two major forms of coastal erosion contribute to the formation of a headland. The first and most obvious is known as Hydraulic Action, which is the force of water against the cliff face and the types of rock it consists of. First, it’s important to understand the different types of rock that comprise a headland because not all rocks will erode at the same rate. Stronger rocks will hold out for much greater lengths of time in the face of waves, ice, wind, and rain than their weaker counterparts will.
Geology and geography [edit]. Headlands and bays are often found on the same coastline. A bay is surrounded by land on three sides, whereas a headland is surrounded by water on three sides. Headlands are characterized by high, breaking waves, rocky shores, intense erosion, and steep sea cliffs. Bays form where weak (less resistant) rocks (such as sands and clays) are eroded, leaving bands of stronger (more resistant) rocks (such as chalk, limestone, granite), which form a headland or peninsula.