While you’re most likely going to want to get rid of the bed bugs altogether, it’s important to save the bugs that you do find. You’ll need evidence of bugs to show any landlords or exterminators. When you do save them, make sure to tape them to a surface where they will be easily visible. You don’t have to get rid of everything you own to assure that the bed bugs won’t return. You don’t have to put everything into bags either. With bagging, there’s a chance the bed bugs will make their way into the bags.
Bed bugs are not known to spread disease. Bed bugs can be an annoyance because their presence may cause itching and loss of sleep. Sometimes the itching can lead to excessive scratching that can sometimes increase the chance of a secondary skin infection. Bed bugs are usually transported from place to place as people travel. The bed bugs travel in the seams and folds of luggage, overnight bags, folded clothes, bedding, furniture, and anywhere else where they can hide.
Warnings. 1  Bed bugs are one of the hardest infestations to get rid of. 2  It's possible that the infestation you are battling is beyond the scope of your capabilities and it may be best to call an exterminator if it continues despite repeated treatments and offensive attacks. Warnings. 1  Bed bugs are one of the hardest infestations to get rid of. 2  Be careful of the shell powder with babies and pets crawling around the house. 3  If the bedbugs keep on coming out of the same mattress, throw it out because it's not safe.
1 Direct sunlight is a good method to get rid of the bugs. 2  On a warm, sunny day, bring all of the drawers and items from your closet, sofas and bed, comforters, pillows, rugs and drapes etc in your back yard, for 4 to 5 hours of direct sunlight. 3  The bugs will leave your stuff and crawl in to grass for shade. Warnings. 1  Bed bugs are one of the hardest infestations to get rid of. 2  Be careful of the shell powder with babies and pets crawling around the house. 3  If the bedbugs keep on coming out of the same mattress, throw it out because it's not safe.
Eliminate warm-blooded pests from your home. Bed bugs aren’t picky eaters; besides humans, they’ll also feed on dogs, cats, birds, bats, rodents, or any other warm-blooded animal that’s handy. In some cases, roosting bats or birds are actually the source of a bed bug infestation. At the very least, these pests can carry bed bugs from room to room, so it’s important to get rid of them. Any area of the house where you find birds or small mammals should also be inspected for signs of bed bugs. Clean your room.
Kill any you see on contact and be prepared to deal with blood stains on your bedding, so you may want to change it. In fact, the small blood stains left as a result of rolling over and killing them is often what makes a lot of people realize they have a bed bug infestation in the first place. Warnings. 1  Bed bugs are one of the hardest infestations to get rid of. 2  Be careful of the shell powder with babies and pets crawling around the house. 3  If the bedbugs keep on coming out of the same mattress, throw it out because it's not safe.
How to sleep at night after a bed bug problem. If you have bed bugs it is not necessary to get rid of your mattress or box springs. Encasements will prevent bed bugs from hiding in your mattress and box springs, but if you have bed bugs in other places, they can still crawl into your bed. Bed bugs are very difficult to get rid of because they are hard to find and kill. Making your home bed bug-free will take time and effort from you; the housing manager (if the home is a rental unit); and a pest control company.
1 Make sure to wash the bed bug bites with soap and water. 2  Make a thick sticky paste with the water and baking soda, not too runny and thick enough that it will stay. 3  Let the paste stand until completely dry and then wait an hour or so. 4  Some let it stand for hours while others find that an hour or less is fine. Here is exactly how to treat the bites…. 1  Make sure to wash the bed bug bites with soap and water. 2  Make a thick sticky paste with the water and baking soda, not too runny and thick enough that it will stay. 3  Let the paste stand until completely dry and then wait an hour or so. 4  Gently wash the paste off and pat dry.