Part of the Desktop PCs glossary: A general-purpose computer is one that, given the appropriate application and required time, should be able to perform most common computing tasks. Personal computers, including desktops, notebooks, smartphones and tablets, are all examples of general-purpose computers. 
A laptop, also called a notebook, is a portable personal computer with a clamshell form factor, suitable for mobile use. Although there was a distinction between laptops and notebooks (the former were bigger and heavier than the latter), there is often no longer any difference, in practice. A desktop-replacement laptop is a class of large device, which is not intended primarily for mobile use. They are bulkier and not as portable as other laptops, and are intended for use as compact and transportable alternatives to a desktop computer.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Use caution with any laptop use, especially if you’re a pregnant woman, and if you choose to use it on your lap, only do so with a lap pad or cushion that is about one foot thick. What's worse is that computer-charging devices are ungrounded, so ideally you'll only want to use a laptop when it's running on battery -- not when it's plugged into an outlet and charging.
Surviving Without a Desktop Computer. Laptops can serve another purpose in addition to portable computing: replacing your home computer. Most laptops include a monitor port as well as USB ports, so you can plug in an external screen, keyboard and mouse when at home and use the laptop as if it were a desktop computer. Relying entirely on a laptop won't work for everyone, however. Working on the Go. When you own a laptop, you can take projects between work and home without sending yourself files or using cloud storage -- no more forgetting a file at the office and having to drive back to retrieve it.
The purpose of a laptop cooling pad is to keep a laptop from overheating. Preventing a laptop from overheating will increase the longevity of the device. It the one of the good laptop. Range of variates are available  those suite for business and study   ibmt40laptop.com    Yes it is one of the best business laptop. … visit sellalaptop.com to  know more about selling a laptop.
What is an all-purpose laptop? We generally define them as between 14 and 16 inches, weighing more than 4.5 pounds. Some 13-inch laptops that are thicker and heavier than the standard may fit the bill. These are large and powerful enough to serve as your everyday computer, but portable enough to accompany you on the go. 
A computer is a general-purpose device that can be programmed to carry out a set of arithmetic or logical operations automatically. Since a sequence of operations can be readily changed, the computer can solve more than one kind of problem. 
No matter how you use computers, the overarching reason to own a laptop is portability. Unlike smartphones and most tablets, laptop computers run the same programs as their desktop counterparts, so you can take your work and entertainment with you wherever you go without relying on mobile apps. Working on the Go. When you own a laptop, you can take projects between work and home without sending yourself files or using cloud storage -- no more forgetting a file at the office and having to drive back to retrieve it.
A laptop is a device similar like the computer but it's smaller and it can go wherever you want it to go with you. 1 person found this useful. 1  4 Reliable Laptop Scanners Technology continues to meet the needs of mobile computing with advances in laptop and tablet performance. It the one of the good laptop. Range of variates are available  those suite for business and study   ibmt40laptop.com    Yes it is one of the best business laptop. … visit sellalaptop.com to  know more about selling a laptop.
In this video, I review the purpose, features, and advantages of laptop docking stations and voice tips on purchasing one. I also include a full demonstration on setting one up, docking a laptop and undocking a laptop. Key reasons why the use of a docking station is encouraged (I cover more details in video): 