Marijuana is  derived from the Mexican word maraguanquo which means  intoxicating plant. Some people site historical inf … ormation in  which the name was used to create an evil or unpatrioitc image  for use of cannabis or other THC containing compounds .I'd like  more details about this mexican word. China used it as an anesthetic about 5,000 years ago. Marijuana also comes from Africa, where they eat/smoke/and dissolve the plant in certain liquids.
Instead, marijuana originated in the middle east. China used it as an anesthetic about 5,000 years ago. Marijuana also comes from Africa, where they eat/smoke/and dissolve the plant in certain liquids. Note: Marijuana is derived from the Cannabis plant, so saying where marijuana came from is about the same thing as where cannabis came from
Health related question in topics Addiction Drug Abuse .We found some answers as below for this question Where and when did marijuana originate,you can compare them. Marijuana originated in the middle east. A Chinese book of medicine from the 2nd Century B.C., was first to describe it in print. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/where-and-when-did-marijuana-originate ]. More Answers to  Where and when did marijuana originate .
In the report, author Barney Warf describes how cannabis use originated thousands of years ago in Asia, and has since found its way to many regions of the world, eventually spreading to the Americas and the United States. Germanic tribes brought the drug into Germany, and marijuana went from there to Britain during the 5th century with the Anglo-Saxon invasions. [See map of marijuana's spread throughout the world.]. This map shows how marijuana spread throughout the world, from its origins on the steppes of Central Asia. Credit: Barney Warf, University of Kansas. View full size image. Cannabis seeds have also been found in the remains of Viking ships dating to the mid-ninth century, Warf wrote in the study
The Origin of the Word Marijuana. Marijuana is the most violence-causing drug in the history of mankind… Most marijuana smokers are Negroes, Hispanics, Filipinos and entertainers. Their satanic music, jazz and swing, result from marijuana usage.. The word “marijuana” plays a controversial role in cannabis culture
Where did marijuana originate. http://emilie.recherche.ifrance.com/_images/where-can-i-buy-linh-chi/where-did-leprosy-emerge.html. choices that every watchlist performs on a fake basis. The isoc has prohibitive gifts in virginia, united states and geneva, switzerland. A Chinese book of medicine from the 2nd Century B.C., was first to describe it in print. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/where-and-when-did-marijuana-originate ]. More Answers to  Where and when did marijuana originate .
Cannabis and Ancient History The ancestors of Cannabis originated in Asia, possibly on the more gentle slopes of the Himalayas or the Altai Mountains to the north. The exact origin, obscured by Stone Age trails that cross the continent is not known. 
Marijuana originated in Central and Southern Asia. It was discovered growing in the wild in China. China is known principally for its tea and opium, the great number of its people, it’s massive high-rises, but not really known for the discovery place of marijuana. 1 Mandatory Minimum – 10 years to Life for Possessing THC Brownies... 2  Entrepreneur Marijuana Network in Las Vegas, Nevada... 3  Legalizing Marijuana For Recreational Use... 4  Billionaire Marijuana Legalizer Peter Lewis Dies at Age 80...
Actually, the origin of pot has nothing to do with the culinary tools. The word came into use in America in the late 1930s. It is a shortening of the Spanish potiguaya or potaguaya that came from potacion potación de, guaya a wine or brandy in which marijuana buds have been. steeped 