Keep the bull in for as long as your breeding season entails. This can range from 45 days to 120 days. Ideally, you should have your breeding season between 45 to 60 days, but of course this varies between farm to farm and ranch to ranch. 1 You need to make sure to pull the bull at the end of the breeding season though for a period of time so that you can detect any open cows or heifers for culling purposes. 2  Ultimately, though, the time you wish to pull the bull from the cow herd after breeding season is up to you.
To maintain lactation, a dairy cow must be bred and produce calves. Depending on market conditions, the cow may be bred with a dairy bull or a beef bull.. Female calves (heifers) with dairy breeding may be kept as replacement cows for the dairy herd. If a replacement cow turns out to be a substandard producer of milk, she then goes to market and can be slaughtered for beef. 
1 Body condition score your cows and heifers 30 days before breeding season. 2  They need to be at around a Cdn BCS of 2.5 to 3 to be ready to breed. 3  Heifers should be at a Cdn BCS of 3 to 3.5 to be ready to be bred. 4  Anything lower or higher than that will decrease fertility in your herd. 1 Some bulls, depending on the fertility rate of the cows and how many cows are in heat at one time, can breed over 50 cows in one season. 2  Body condition score your cows and heifers 30 days before breeding season. 3  They need to be at around a Cdn BCS of 2.5 to 3 to be ready to bree
1 The optimum bull-to-cow ratio is 1 bull per 10 to 30 cows, depending on the size of the pasture, and the bull's age, promiscuity/libido and experience. 2  Some bulls, depending on the fertility rate of the cows and how many cows are in heat at one time, can breed over 50 cows in one season. 1 Some bulls, depending on the fertility rate of the cows and how many cows are in heat at one time, can breed over 50 cows in one season. 2  Body condition score your cows and heifers 30 days before breeding season. 3  They need to be at around a Cdn BCS of 2.5 to 3 to be ready to breed
Any cow can have a calf per year, usually cows will be able to breed and produce calves until they are 7-10 years of age. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Karin L. 270,023 Contributions. Cattle reproduction is more than just putting the bull out with a bunch of cows. If she goes for longer than that she gets culled. In her lifetime, well that depends on how long she lives. Heifers become cows when they c … alve at around 24 to 30 months of age (depending on the breed), and the average cow lives to 15 to 20 years of age, so that mean a cow will have 13 to 18 calves in her lifetime.
1 Cows should be bred 45 to 80 days after they have calved, depending on age and condition. 2  The optimum bull-to-cow ratio is 1 bull per 10 to 30 cows, depending on the size of the pasture, and the bull's age, promiscuity/libido and experience. 1 Some bulls, depending on the fertility rate of the cows and how many cows are in heat at one time, can breed over 50 cows in one season. 2  Body condition score your cows and heifers 30 days before breeding season. 3  They need to be at around a Cdn BCS of 2.5 to 3 to be ready to breed
As a general rule, a good fertile cow or first-calf heifer should be able to come back into heat in 45 to 60 days after calving. But if you need your females to meet the same calving date as the previous year, you will have to account for at least 80 to 90 days of rest before you can get her bred again. However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days  to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition  and nutritional health. Length of gestation is primarily an  inherited trait, but has nothing to do with the rate of maturity of  a certain breed or an individual animal.
Purchase a good herd bull. Make sure the bull is a calving-ease bull if you are wanting to naturally breed heifers, or a herd bull that is selected to improve your cow-herd, not disprove it. Look at the breed[s] your cows are made up of and choose your bull from there. 1 You need to make sure to pull the bull at the end of the breeding season though for a period of time so that you can detect any open cows or heifers for culling purposes. 2  Ultimately, though, the time you wish to pull the bull from the cow herd after breeding season is up to you.