Increasingly, the Ford Motor Company has looked to Ford of Europe for its world cars, such as the Mondeo, Focus, and Fiesta, although sales of European-sourced Fords in the U.S. have been disappointing. Henry Ford's first attempt at a car company under his own name was the Henry Ford Company on November 3, 1901, which became the Cadillac Motor Company on August 22, 1902, after Ford left with the rights to his name.
CPSC, Alpha International Inc., also known as Gearbox Pedal Car Company, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, is voluntarily recalling about 75,000 pedal cars. Release # 02-104. WASHINGTON, D.C. - In cooperation with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, (CPSC), Alpha International Inc., also known as Gearbox Pedal Car Company, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, is voluntarily recalling about 75,000 pedal cars. The paint coating on some of these pedal cars contains high lead level
Ford Motor Company of Canada is founded. Ford’s first international plant was built in Walkerville (now Windsor), Ontario, right across the Detroit River from Ford’s existing facilities. The company was a separate organization with its own set of shareholders. 
The Ford Motor Company (commonly referred to as simply Ford) is an American multinational automaker headquartered in Dearborn, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. Henry Ford's first attempt at a car company under his own name was the Henry Ford Company on November 3, 1901, which became the Cadillac Motor Company on August 22, 1902, after Ford left with the rights to his name.
Jaguar has, in recent years, manufactured cars for the British Prime Minister, the most recent delivery being an XJ in May 2010. The company also holds royal warrants from Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Charles. The sports cars were successful in international motorsport, a path followed in the 1950s to prove the engineering integrity of the company's products. Jaguar's sales slogan for years was Grace, Space, Pace, a mantra epitomised by the record sales achieved by the MK VII, IX, Mks I and II saloons and later the XJ6.
History of International. Navistar International is a company that manufactures various commercial vehicles and diesel engines. It is also the company that now owns and produces the International Trucks brand of heavy duty vehicles, which are known for being some of the best quality trucks in the industry. At first, International made farming and agricultural machines and vehicles and the International brand of equipment was well known in the mid-1800s among farmers. Cyrus Hall McCormick made the very first horse drawn reaper in 1847 as the McCormick Havesting Machine Company.
The Rambler's compact size (by US standards) also made it an international competitor, and between 1961 and 1965 AMC opened thirteen foreign assembly plants, from Costa Rica to the Philippines. In 1963, the entire Rambler line received the Motor Trend Car of the Year award. This car was essentially the 1950 Nash Rambler, slightly restyled and modernized for the late 1950s. However the car was an instant success and lost sales only after the Big Three (GM, Ford, and Chrysler) each introduced compact cars of their own.
Henry Ford was 39 years old when he founded the Ford Motor Company, which would go on to become one of the world's largest and most profitable companies. As one of the largest family-controlled companies in the world, the Ford Motor Company has been in continuous family control for over 100 years. Henry Ford's first attempt at a car company under his own name was the Henry Ford Company on November 3, 1901, which became the Cadillac Motor Company on August 22, 1902, after Ford left with the rights to his name.
Tata Motors is a Mubai, India-based company. Tata bought the truck division of Daewoo, while the car division went to GM. Tata bought JLR from Ford in 2008. The Tata family includes Tata, Tata Daewoo, Jaguar, Land Rover, and the Jaguar subsidiary Daimler (not to be confused with Daimler-Chrysler). Chrysler. Chrysler is an Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company. From 1985 to 1991, it was allied with Mitsubishi in what was at the time called the Diamond-Star Alliance. Chrysler bought AMC from Renault in 1987, mainly for the Jeep line but failed to popularize the renamed Jeep-Eagle division.