i know what it does and where it is in a cell, i just need to know what does it look like. answers plz!! Follow. 3 answers 3. Report Abuse. i know what it does and where it is in a cell, i just need to know what does it look like. answers plz!! Add your answer.
The polypeptide chain is released and the ribosome subunits are returned to the pool of ribosome units in the cytoplasm. Ribosomes are found in two locations in the cell. Free ribosomes are dispersed throughout the cytoplasm. Bound ribosomes are attached to a membranous structure called the endoplasmic reticulum. Found throughout the cell, ribosomes are composed of ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) and proteins. They are the sites of protein synthesis. Although Robert Hooke first used a light microscope to look at cells in 1665, it was only during the last few decades that the cell's organelles were discovered.
The subunits of ribosomes are produced in the nucleolus, which is located in the nucleus of the cell. Ribosomal proteins enter the nucleolus and combine with four rRNA strands to produce the two subunits. The subunits leave the nucleus through the nuclear pores and combine in the cytoplasm. slide 3 of 6. 
Structure. The ribosome is made up of two parts, called subunits. The larger of the two subunits is where the amino acids get added to the growing protein chain. The small subunit is where the mRNA binds and is decoded. Each of the subunits is made up of both protein and ribonucleic acid (RNA) components. On a gross level, the ribosome looks something like an oyster with one of its shells somewhat smaller than the other. The two subunits are joined to each other by interactions between the rRNAs in one subunit and proteins in the other subunit.
Other ribosomes are found on the endoplasmic reticulum. Endoplasmic reticulum with attached ribosomes is called rough ER. It looks bumpy under a microscope. The attached ribosomes make proteins that will be used inside the cell and proteins made for export out of the cell. The mRNA is then sent out of the nucleus and to the ribosomes. When it is time to make the protein, the two subunits come together and combine with the mRNA. The subunits lock onto the mRNA and start the protein synthesis. The process of making proteins is quite simple.
The nucleolus is usually visible as a dark spot in the nucleus, and is the location of ribosome formation. Ribosomes are where RNA is translated into protein. This process is called protein synthesis. Protein synthesis is very important to cells, therefore large numbers of ribosomes are found in cells. Ribosomes float freely in the cytoplasm, and are also bound to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER).
There are two different ways to describe this one: It depends on if you are talking about a eukarotic cell or a prokaryotic cell. All ribosomes consist of two unequal subunits. Prokaryotic is a total weight of 70S, with one unit being 30S and the other being 50S (they are not suppose to add up to 70). Eukaryotic ribosomes are a total weight of 80S with one unit being 40S and the other being 60S (again they are not suppose to add up to 80S). 
Proteins even make up most of your hair. When a cell needs to make proteins, it looks for ribosomes. Ribosomes are the protein builders or the protein synthesizers of the cell. They are like construction guys who connect one amino acid at a time and build long chains. Ribosomes are special because they are found in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The mRNA is then sent out of the nucleus and to the ribosomes. When it is time to make the protein, the two subunits come together and combine with the mRNA. The subunits lock onto the mRNA and start the protein synthesis. The process of making proteins is quite simple.
Ribosomes are like the steering wheel and the gas pedal. Ribosomes  is the control between the nucleus and the cell. The gas pedal and  the steering wheel is the control bet … ween the driver and the car. 2 people found this useful. Ribosomes are made of two subunits; one larger and one smaller. It is made up of proteins and has a globular shape. This is so that mRNA can pass through during translat … ion. 1 person