Saltatory conduction is the propagation of action potentials  (nerve signals) along axons that occurs by jumping from one node of  Ranvier (gap between myelinated sections o … f axon) to the next. There are a couple of things that happen during saltatory  conduction. The main thing is action potentials being propagated  from one node of Ranvier to the next node along … the myelinated  axons.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Saltatory conduction is the propagation of action potentials (nerve signals) along axons that occurs by jumping from one node of Ranvier (gap between myelinated sections of axon) to the next. (Saltare means to hop or to jump). There are a couple of things that happen during saltatory  conduction. The main thing is action potentials being propagated  from one node of Ranvier to the next node along … the myelinated  axons.
It is by this restriction that saltatory conduction propagates an action potential along the axon of a neuron at rates significantly higher than would be possible without the myelination of the axon (200 m/s compared to 2 m/s). In addition to increasing the speed of the nerve impulse, the myelin sheath helps in reducing energy expenditure over the axon membrane as a whole, because the amount of sodium and potassium ions that need to be pumped to bring the concentrations back to the resting state following each action potential is decreased.
The conduction of the neural impulse in a myelinated axon is called saltatory conduction, and combines electrotonic conduction (underneath the Schwann or Oligodendrocyte glial cells which myelinate the axon), with the action potential which occurs just in the gaps between the glial cells. There are a couple of things that happen during saltatory  conduction. The main thing is action potentials being propagated  from one node of Ranvier to the next node along … the myelinated  axons.
Propagation of action potential along myelinated nerve fiber. Saltatory conduction (from the Latin saltare, to hop or leap) is the propagation of action potentials along myelinated axons from one node of Ranvier to the next node, increasing the conduction velocity of action potentials. In addition to increasing the speed of the nerve impulse, the myelin sheath helps in reducing energy expenditure over the axon membrane as a whole, because the amount of sodium and potassium ions that need to be pumped to bring the concentrations back to the resting state following each action potential is decreased.
It is found on all axons outside the central nervous system. It allows the nodes of Ranvier to act as an electrical insulator. It is found on dendrites in the central nervous system and prevents crossing over of electrical impulses between the axons and the dendrites. It prevents saltatory conduction. Saltatory conduction means that the impulse is regulated by the axons and dendrites working in unison. Saltatory conduction is another name for nerve impulses found in the central nervous system. Saltatory conduction means that the impulse moves along the dendrite instead of along the ax
Myelinated axons only allow action potentials to occur at the unmyelinated nodes of Ranvier that occur between the myelinated internodes. In addition to increasing the speed of the nerve impulse, the myelin sheath helps in reducing energy expenditure over the axon membrane as a whole, because the amount of sodium and potassium ions that need to be pumped to bring the concentrations back to the resting state following each action potential is decreased.
Saltatory conduction is a type of nerve impulse that occurs when an electric signal jumps from one bare segment of fiber to the next. Action potentials are perhaps best understood as electrical impulses that act as signals to and from neurons and muscle cells. These are called the “ nodes of Ranvier .” Saltatory conduction happens when signals “hop” from myelin sheath to myelin sheath, essentially skimming over the top of the axon.
The uninsulated nodes of Ranvier are the only places along the axon where ions are exchanged across the axon membrane, regenerating the action potential between regions of the axon that are insulated by myelin, unlike electrical conduction in a simple circuit. In addition to increasing the speed of the nerve impulse, the myelin sheath helps in reducing energy expenditure over the axon membrane as a whole, because the amount of sodium and potassium ions that need to be pumped to bring the concentrations back to the resting state following each action potential is decreased.