I charge one hourly rate for all work, it helps keep me sane. No matter how hard I try to keep all of my clients at equal level, some are more equal than others, so is the hourly rate. I don't vary my rate so much by client, but by type of work and turnaround time. rush job = +money, specialized work = +money. 
Lawyers typically charge much more for a living trust than for a will, even though a simple living trust is a fairly standard document, like a will. It’s rare to see a price of less than $1200 or $1500 for a trust. One caveat: After your will has been property signed and witnessed, you’re done. Flat Fees. It’s very common for a lawyer to charge a flat fee to write a will and other basic estate planning documents. The low end for a simple lawyer-drafted will is around $300. A price of closer to $1,000 is more common, and it’s not unusual to find a $1,200 price tag. Lawyers like flat fees for several reasons.
Let me begin by pointing out that it isn’t fair to lump all psychic mediums together in your question. There are psychic mediums who don't charge any fee for a reading, psychic mediums who charge $25, psychic mediums who charge $125, psychic mediums who charge $350, and psychic mediums who charge $800. And, for the most part, most actually do genuinely want to help people; they don't merely claim to want to help them. Full-time psychic mediums help a lot more people in the course of a week, a month and a year than those who only give readings part-time. Unfortunately for them, even if their reading fee is $200 for a one-hour reading, it's not like they earn $200 per hour for 8 hours a day, 5 days a week.
Independent contractors (ICs) can charge for their services in a variety of ways, such as a fixed amount for an entire project, an hourly fee, or a sales commission. No matter how you bill clients, however, you first need to figure out how much to charge -- even if you charge a fixed fee for the whole project. Depending on market conditions, you may be able to charge more for your services -- or you might have to get by on less. Determine your annual salary. To determine how much your labor is worth, pick a figure for
Personally i think it would depend how much time you’re willing to deliver that particular service, for e.g i know you spends 12 to 18 hours writing a single blog post. If it were i would charge between $100 – $200, but at the end its a catch 22 situation. I say this from experience: I’ve worked for free, I’ve charged $25,000 for a half-day of consulting, and I’ve created ebooks/courses that range from $4.95 to $12,000. I would have never expected the things I learned along the way. To start, read this fascinating article about how WW2 veterans don’t like the Red Cross.
How much does life coaching usually cost? Most life coaches working with individuals charge about $200 to $1,000 per month for a 30- to 60-minute call three or four times a month. Executive coaches charge more and typically work with their clients for two hours a month. It all works about to about $100 to $300 per hour. Obviously, corporate coaching is more, and can cost $1,000 to $10,000 per month and usually starts at $500 per hour. Corporate coaching often includes on-site programs and online computerized assessments.
Also, most of us have crippling beliefs that cause us to dramatically under-charge. I say this from experience: I’ve worked for free, I’ve charged $25,000 for a half-day of consulting, and I’ve created ebooks/courses that range from $4.95 to $12,000. I would have never expected the things I learned along the way. To start, read this fascinating article about how WW2 veterans don’t like the Red Cross.
2. Next, find out how many working hours you'll have each year. You could take 40 hours a week and multiply by 52 weeks to get to 2,080, but you should also account for holidays, sick days, and vacations. Cameron S. Foote in The Business Side of Creativity suggests 1,920 hours, accounting for 48 working weeks. 
Profit is usually expressed as a percentage of total costs. There is no standard profit percentage, but a 10% to 20% profit is common. Determine billable hours. Finally, you need to determine how many hours you'll work and get paid for during the year. Assume you'll work a 40-hour week for purposes of this calculation, although you may end up working more than this. Depending on market conditions, you may be able to charge more for your services -- or you might have to get by on less. Determine your annual salary. To determine how much your labor is worth, pick a figure for