Understanding infection vs. disease. There's a difference between infection and disease. Infection, often the first step, occurs when bacteria, viruses or other microbes that cause disease enter your body and begin to multiply.
An infectious disease is a clinically evident disease resulting from the presence of pathogenic microbial agents, including pathogenic viruses, pathogenic bacteria, fungi, protozoa, multicellular parasites, and aberrant proteins known as prions. These pathogens are able to cause disease in animals and/or plants. Best Answer: infections are bacterial and a disease can be viral, neurological and physically disabling, while an infection can be cured with antibiotics with the exception or MRSA or the Super Bug. Source(s): tampico · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by a germ called Mycobacterium tuberculosis that is spread from person to person through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine. 
Both can be the result of bad hygiene and intercourse.   Actually, the difference between them is that one is caused by Candida which is a yeast that lives in the body, usually in the background and then overgrows to cause yeast infections such as thrush, whilst bladder infections are caused by bacteria. A virus causes an infection. It is the actual file that causes the infection. An infection itself is the action or state of the computer's security being compromised by … a virus or other malware. 12 people found this useful.
Infection vs Disease. Infection and Disease are two words that are often confused as one and the same. In fact these two medical terms are different in their meanings. Infection is understood in the sense of contamination. Contaminating air or water with harmful organisms is said to cause infection. Infection affects a person with disease. On the other hand disease is the end result of an infection. This is the main difference between infection and disease. In short it can be said that infection leads to disease. A person gets a disease if he or she carries an infection.
This information sheet discusses tuberculosis (TB) and the difference between the two TB-related conditions: latent TB infection (LTBI) and TB disease. It explains what is meant by LTBI, and, that although persons with LTBI cannot spread the disease, if left untreated, they can develop active TB in the future. 
Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by a germ called Mycobacterium tuberculosis that is spread from person to person through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine. They are infected with M. tuberculosis, but do not have TB disease. The only sign of TB infection is a positive reaction to the tuberculin skin test or TB blood test. Persons with latent TB infection are not infectious and cannot spread TB infection to others.
As you might think, bacterial infections are caused by bacteria, and viral infections are caused by viruses. Perhaps the most important distinction between bacteria and viruses is that antibiotic drugs usually kill bacteria, but they aren't effective against viruses. 