Cetirizine belongs to the second generation antihistamine class and is similar to drugs such as azelastine (Astelin), fexofenadine (Allegra), and loratadine (Claritin). Unlike other antihistamines, Zyrtec is non-sedating. It was approved by the FDA in September 1996. Zyrtec is considered safe to use in both children and adults, and the dosage varies depending on age and weight. For small children, Zyrtec is available in both a liquid suspension and chewable tablets. The dosage of these ranges based upon the child’s weight for children less than six years of age.
Cetirizine is an antihistamine that reduces the natural chemical histamine in the body. Histamine can produce symptoms of sneezing, itching, watery eyes, and runny nose. Pseudoephedrine is a decongestant that shrinks blood vessels in the nasal passages. Dilated blood vessels can cause nasal congestion (stuffy nose). The combination of cetirizine and pseudoephedrine is used to treat cold or allergy symptoms such as nasal and sinus congestion, sneezing, itching, watery eyes, or runny nose. 
Zyrtec Uses. Zyrtec is most commonly used to treat allergies and their symptoms because of its ability to reduce the effects of histamine—a natural chemical released in the body during an allergic response. Histamine can cause watery, itchy eyes, runny nose, sneezing and a general unwell feeling. Zyrtec is considered safe to use in both children and adults, and the dosage varies depending on age and weight. For small children, Zyrtec is available in both a liquid suspension and chewable tablets. The dosage of these ranges based upon the child’s weight for children less than six years of age.
Cetirizine /sɛˈtɪrɨziːn/ (trade names Zirtec, Zyrtec, Reactine) is a second-generation antihistamine used in the treatment of hay fever, allergies, angioedema, and urticaria. It is a major metabolite of hydroxyzine, and a racemic selective H1 receptor antagonist. 
Zyrtec is less likely than some other antihistamines to cause side effects such as drowsiness and dizziness. • Zyrtec is used to treat the symptoms of allergies such as sneezing; runny nose; itching, tearing, and redness of the eyes; and hives. • Zyrtec may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. Quick Overview. Zyrtec is an antihistamine used to treat both seasonal and perennial allergy symptoms such as watery eyes, runny nose (rhinitis), itching eyes, and sneezing. Cetirizine is also used to treat hives. Synonyms: Ceticad, Neuosil, Zetecet, Zetect, Alerlisin, Formistin, Reactine, Setir, Virlix, Zyrlex.
Zyrtec-D is currently available in generic form. Zyrtec-D ® (cetirizine and pseudoephedrine) is a non-prescription medication approved to treat allergies. It contains two different medications: cetirizine (an antihistamine) and pseudoephedrine (a decongestant). Zyrtec-D was originally a prescription-only product, but was switched to a non-prescription status. However, generic versions of Zyrtec-D are also available. Like brand-name Zyrtec-D, generic versions are available in just one strength -- Cetirizine and Pseudoephedrine 12 Hour tablets, with 5 mg of cetirizine and 120 mg of pseudoephedrine sulfate per tablet.
Currently, generic versions of Zyrtec are available in the form of tablets, chewable tablets, and syrup. Zyrtec ® (cetirizine hydrochloride) is a nonprescription antihistamine approved to treat allergies and hives. While these generic versions are made by a number of manufacturers, including Actavis Elizabeth and Apotex Corporation, the names may be something other than cetirizine (the usual generic name)
Cetirizine is the generic name for the brand name Zyrtec and is a medication that is used to treat moderate to severe allergies, cold symptoms or chronic hives. Cetirizine was approved by the FDA in September 1996 and was initially available via prescription only. Zyrtec is considered safe to use in both children and adults, and the dosage varies depending on age and weight. For small children, Zyrtec is available in both a liquid suspension and chewable tablets. The dosage of these ranges based upon the child’s weight for children less than six years of age.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/2/2015. Zyrtec (cetirizine hydrochloride) is an antihistamine that treats symptoms, such as itching, runny nose, watery eyes, and sneezing from hay fever (allergic rhinitis) and other allergies, such as allergies to molds and dust mites. It is available in generic form. Common side effects of Zyrtec include: drowsiness, fatigue, dizziness, dry mouth, sore throat, cough, nausea, constipation, or headache. In children, stomach pain and vomiting may occur. Zyrtec is available as regular tablets and chewable tablets (5 mg and 10 mg) and syrup (1 mg/mL)
Zyrtec is an antihistamine used to treat both seasonal and perennial allergy symptoms such as watery eyes, runny nose (rhinitis), itching eyes, and sneezing. Cetirizine is also used to treat hives. Quick Overview. Zyrtec is an antihistamine used to treat both seasonal and perennial allergy symptoms such as watery eyes, runny nose (rhinitis), itching eyes, and sneezing. Cetirizine is also used to treat hives. Synonyms: Ceticad, Neuosil, Zetecet, Zetect, Alerlisin, Formistin, Reactine, Setir, Virlix, Zyrlex.