apatite. 1. calcium phosphate; one of the two mineral constituents of bones and teeth. 2. fluorapatite; a naturally occurring rock mineral containing fluorine. apatite calculi. see apatite urolith.
Apatite is a group of phosphate minerals which includes hydroxyl-apatite, fluor-apatite and chlor-apatite. Apatite is the most common type of phosphate in the world and it is the main source for phosphorus, a chemical essential to bioenergetics and photosynthesis. Apatite is composed of calcium phosphate, which is the same material that makes up teeth and bones.
Minerals in the apatite group are all calcium phosphates with the same crystalline structure. The generalized chemical composition of apatite is Ca 5 (PO 4) 3 (OH,F,Cl). This formula represents an admixture of the three important minerals of the apatite group: hydroxylapatite, fluorapatite and chlorapatite. It is a mixture of cryptocrystalline apatite minerals and amorphous calcium phosphates. Apatite is best known for its use as an index mineral with a hardness of 5 in the Mohs Hardness Scale. It is usually green in color, but can be yellow, brown, blue, purple, pink or colorless.
Not to be confused with appetite. Apatite is a group of phosphate minerals, usually referring to hydroxylapatite, fluorapatite and chlorapatite, with high concentrations of OH − , F − and Cl − ions, respectively, in the crystal. Hydroxyapatite, also known as hydroxylapatite, is the major component of tooth enamel and bone mineral. A relatively rare form of apatite in which most of the OH groups are absent and containing many carbonate and acid phosphate substitutions is a large component of bone material.
Carbonated calcium-deficient hydroxylapatite is the main mineral of which dental enamel and dentin are composed. Hydroxylapatite crystals are also found in the small calcifications (within the pineal gland and other structures) known as corpora arenacea or 'brain sand'. Hydroxylapatite is the hydroxyl endmember of the complex apatite group. The OH − ion can be replaced by fluoride, chloride or carbonate, producing fluorapatite or chlorapatite. It crystallizes in the hexagonal crystal system.
Hydroxylapatite, also called hydroxyapatite (HA), is a naturally occurring mineral form of calcium apatite with the formula Ca 5 (PO 4) 3 (OH), but is usually written Ca 10 (PO 4) 6 (OH) 2 to denote that the crystal unit cell comprises two entities. Hydroxylapatite is the hydroxyl endmember of the complex apatite group. The OH − ion can be replaced by fluoride, chloride or carbonate, producing fluorapatite or chlorapatite. It crystallizes in the hexagonal crystal system.
Apatite is the name of a common type of mineral. Apatite minerals have the ability to capture and hold radioactive and metal contaminants. Large amounts of apatite are in bones and smaller amounts are in rocks. Apatite and apatite-like minerals make up most of our teeth and bones. Apatite has many uses. 
Apatite is a calcium-phosphate mineral. The name Apatite has the same pronunciation as the word appetite referring to the craving or being hungry for food. The name Apatite comes from the Greek spelling apate which means deceit. Fluorapatite is a naturally occurring calcium phosphate in the form of hydroxyl apatite. It is also the most common form of apatite. Just like Hydroxylapatite this material also makes up the enamel in teeth. Fluorapatite is a harder material than hydroxyl apatite and also helps in protection against tooth decay
Hydroxylapatite is one of the three occurring mineral forms of apatite. Hydroxylapatite consist of the base apatite calcium and phosphate bonded with hydroxide. Hydroxyl apatite is a major component in tooth enamel. Hydroxyl apatite composes 70% of bone material in the human body. Hydroxylapatite is the main mineral that tooth enamel and dentin are made of. Fluorapatite is a naturally occurring calcium phosphate in the form of hydroxyl apatite. It is also the most common form of apatite. Just like Hydroxylapatite this material also makes up the enamel in teeth. Fluorapatite is a harder material than hydroxyl apatite and also helps in protection against tooth decay