Cannas are tropical and subtropical flowering plants with large, banana like leaves. They can be grown as annuals in cooler regions, where they add an instant touch of the tropics to gardens. 
The name canna comes from the Greek word for reed, referring to the stems. The parentage of garden hybrids is very mixed, but breeders have provided many sturdy and colorful kinds. Description of canna: Cannas grow from fleshy roots with erect stalks from which broad, long leaves emerge. Flower stalks rising in the center bear large flowers. Foliage may be green, bronze, or purplish in hue. Growing canna: Cannas need full sun and grow best in a deep, rich, moist but well-drained soil.
Canna (or canna lily, although not a true lily) is a genus of 19 species of flowering plants. The closest living relations to cannas are the other plant families of the order Zingiberales, that is the Zingiberaceae (gingers), Musaceae (bananas), Marantaceae, Heliconiaceae, Strelitziaceae, etc. Canna is the only genus in the family Cannaceae. The APG II system of 2003 also recognizes the family, and assigns it to the order Zingiberales in the clade commelinids, in the monocots. Cannas grow from swollen underground stems, correctly known as rhizomes, which store starch, and this is the main attraction of the plant to agriculture, having the largest starch particles of all plant life.
CANNA COCO is a line of nutrients and substrates which are specially developed for growing plants in coco. CANNA COCO was the first cultivation product line for coco. Nowadays it's the most popular growing product line for both professionals and hobbyists. CANNA Coco Natural. CANNA Coco Natural is a natural coco-based plant medium that offers the gardener and his plants advantages in comparison with other substrates. It's an organic product that is free of diseases.
1 Exotic, tropical creatures, cannas need lots of sunshine and fertile, moist soil but you don't have to pamper them. 2  Cannas can be started in the house in small pots if your gardening season is short. 3  Where not hardy, plant outdoors in early summer—around the same time you'd put in tomato plants. 1 Cannas can be started in the house in small pots if your gardening season is short. 2  Where not hardy, plant outdoors in early summer—around the same time you'd put in tomato plants. 3  To plant, loosen the soil to a depth of 12 to 15 inches, then mix in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost.
Canna (Scottish Gaelic: Canaigh; Eilean Chanaigh) is the westernmost of the Small Isles archipelago, in the Scottish Inner Hebrides. It is linked to the neighbouring island of Sanday by a road and sandbanks at low tide. The island is 4.3 miles (6.9 km) long and 1 mile (1.6 km) wide. Canna is noted for its tiers of basalt pillars that rise over the eastern half of the island and the sea cliffs that dominate its northern shore. The highest point on the island is Carn càrn' A (Ghaill gaelic for rocky hill of the) storm at 689 (feet 210). M another point of interest Is Compass. hill
Definition of CANNA. : any of a genus (Canna of the family Cannaceae) of tropical herbs with simple stems, large leaves, and a terminal raceme of irregular flowers. See canna defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
1 The rhizomes of cannas are rich in starch, and it has many uses in agriculture. 2  All of the plant has commercial value, rhizomes for starch (consumption by humans and livestock), stems and foliage for animal fodder, young shoots as a vegetable, and young seeds as an addition to tortillas. Cannas grow from swollen underground stems, correctly known as rhizomes, which store starch, and this is the main attraction of the plant to agriculture, having the largest starch particles of all plant life.
By Nikki Phipps (Author of The Bulb-o-licious Garden). The canna lily plant is a rhizomatous perennial with tropical-like foliage and large flowers that resemble that of iris. Canna lilies are low maintenance and easy to grow, and both their flowers and foliage offer long-lasting color in the garden. 