Myntra Customer Care Details. This is the head office of the Myntra.com and you can contact it using the information we are providing. We are mentioning the full address and the telephone number of Myntra.com along with the official website as reference.
Contact Number: 080-43540100. Myntra.com is one of the largest Online Fashion and Lifestyle Store for men, women, and kids. It empowers you to shop online from the impressively diverse and the latest collections of Apparel, Footwear and Accessories. You can buy the best brands with Myntra.com.
Myntra, an Indian e-commerce company, deals with lifestyle and fashion products, and is headquartered in Bangalore, Karnataka. Established by IITian Mukesh Bansal with Rishi Ranjan and Ashutosh Sak 2007, Myntra was initially focusing on the business of demand personalization of gift items.
Myntra merged with Flipkart, another e-commerce giant of India, in May 2014, to stand up as a formidable force against the competition of international online businesses and, particularly, Amazon that plunged into the Indian market in June 2013. 91-80-43541999 (24 hours a day, 7 days a week). support@myntra.com.
(January 2015). Myntra is an Indian e-commerce company of fashion and casual lifestyle products, headquartered in Bangalore, Karnataka. The company was founded in 2007 by Indian Institutes of Technology graduates Mukesh Bansal, Ashutosh Lawania and Vineet Saxena with a focus on personalisation of gift items.
Myntra.com is one of the well-known Indian online shopping websites. It was started by Mukesh Bansal, Ashutosh Lawania, and Vineet Saxena in February 2007. It mainly focuses on the retailing of fashion and casual lifestyle products.
Loading... Myntra Customer Care Number for Online Shopping related enquiries is available with us. Feel free to dial Myntra Customer Care Number that connects you to Myntra.com, an Indian Online Shopping Retailer offering an impressively large collection of Fashion and Casual Lifestyle Products. Headquartered in Bangalore, the Company came into being in February 2007 by Mukesh Bansal and Sankar Bora.