In March 2012 The Cosmetics Ingredient Review (CIR) reaffirmed that parabens — common preservatives used in cosmetics and personal care products — are safe. Parabens have a long history of use in cosmetic products and their safety is well documented and continually evaluated. While several non-governmental organizations, such as Campaign for Safe Cosmetics, allege paraben usage in the cosmetic field to its link to cancer. In December 2005, after considering the margins of safety for exposure to women and infants, the panel agreed that parabens are safe to use in cosmetics.
Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 114, pp 1843-1846, 2006. Parabens are preservatives used in a wide variety of personal care products and foods to prevent the growth of microbes. These endocrine-disrupting chemicals can be absorbed through skin, blood and the digestive system. [1]. FOUND IN: Shampoos, conditioners, lotions, facial and shower cleansers and scrubs. Methylparaben and propylparaben are the most common of these. Parabens are most common in personal care products that contain significant amounts of water such as shampoos, conditioners, lotions and facial and shower cleansers and scrubs because they discourage
The mainstream cosmetic industry believes that parabens, like most cosmetic ingredients, are safe based on their long-term use, safety record and recent scientific studies. While several non-governmental organizations, such as Campaign for Safe Cosmetics, allege paraben usage in the cosmetic field to its link to cancer. In December 2005, after considering the margins of safety for exposure to women and infants, the panel agreed that parabens are safe to use in cosmetics.
The Cosmetics Ingredient Review (CIR) reviewed the safety of methylparaben, propylparaben, and butylparaben and concluded they were safe for use in cosmetic products at levels up to 25% (they are used at levels from 0.01 to 0.1%). While several non-governmental organizations, such as Campaign for Safe Cosmetics, allege paraben usage in the cosmetic field to its link to cancer. In December 2005, after considering the margins of safety for exposure to women and infants, the panel agreed that parabens are safe to use in cosmetics.
1 The FDA found that parabens are safe for use in cosmetics, and it also says that, based on the weight of all the current scientific evidence, there is no reason for consumers to be concerned about the use of products containing parabens. 
Parabens have been widely used in products to prevent bacteria growth since the 1950s. “About 85 percent of cosmetics have them,” says Arthur Rich, Ph.D., a cosmetic chemist in Chestnut Ridge, New York. “They’re inexpensive and effective.” New York City dermatologist Fran E. Cook-Bolden explains, “Parabens have a long history of safe use, and that’s why they’re commonplace. 
The Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) reviewed the safety of methylparaben, propylparaben, and butylparaben in 1984 and concluded they were safe for use in cosmetic products at levels up to 25%. Typically parabens are used at levels ranging from 0.01 to 0.3%. FDA has received a number of inquiries on the safety of parabens, which are commonly used as preservatives in cosmetics. Here are answers to questions consumers often ask about these ingredients.
The main parabens used as preservatives in cosmetics come in two forms: short chain (methyl-and ethyl paraben) and long chain (propyl-and butyl paraben). There is also some limited use of isobutyl-and isopropyl parabens, also known as branched chain parabens. Avon Products, Inc. and Consumer Safety: Parabens. Click here for a pdf of this statement. For 125 years, Avon has led the way in beauty product research and development, with an impressive track record for safety – the longest in the industry. No ingredient is added to an Avon product unless it is safe.
Parabens are preservatives that prevent the growth of potentially harmful bacteria that could live in some cosmetics products. Safety questions about the use of parabens in cosmetics center around parabens' potential to act like estrogen, a hormone that can be associated with the development of breast cancer. 
Parabens are among the most commonly used preservatives in cosmetic products. Chemically, parabens are esters of p-hydroxybenzoic acid. The most common parabens used in cosmetic products are methylparaben, propylparaben, and butylparaben. Typically, more than one paraben is used in a product, and they are often used in combination with other types of preservatives to provide preservation against a broad range of microorganisms. FDA has received a number of inquiries on the safety of parabens, which are commonly used as preservatives in cosmetics. Here are answers to questions consumers often ask about these ingredients.