Treponema is a genus of spiral-shaped bacteria. The major treponeme species of human pathogens is Treponema pallidum, whose subspecies are responsible for diseases such as syphilis, bejel, and yaws. Treponema carateum is the cause of pinta. Treponema paraluiscuniculi is associated with syphilis in rabbits. The currently accepted taxonomy is based on the List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature (LPSN) and National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and the phylogeny is based on 16S rRNA-based LTP release 111 by 'The All-Species Living Tree' Project.
Treponema pallidum is a spirochaete bacterium with subspecies that cause treponemal diseases such as syphilis, bejel, pinta, and yaws. The treponemes have a cytoplasmic and an outer membrane. Using light microscopy, treponemes are only visible using dark field illumination. (July 2014). T. p. pallidum is a motile spirochaete that is generally acquired by close sexual contact, entering the host via breaches in squamous or columnar epithelium.
Aldo Castellani isolated it soon after the discovery of T. pallidum in 1905. The genus Treponema has three species: pallidum, pertenue, and carateum. Treponema pallidum is probably the most famous of the group, being that it causes syphilis. The Treponema are helically coiled organisms having a corkscrew-like shape. 
Ecology. T. pallidum is an obligate internal parasite, meaning that it requires a mammalian host for survival. In the absence of mammalian cells, T. pallidum will be killed by the absence of nutrients, exposure to oxygen and heat. (1) T. pallidum causes the human disease syphilis
Genome analysis of Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum and subsp. pertenue strains: most of the genetic differences are localized in six regions. Whole genome sequences of three Treponema pallidum ssp. pertenue strains: yaws and syphilis treponemes differ in less than 0.2% of the genome sequence. 
Definition of TREPONEMA. : any of a genus (Treponema) of spirochetes that are pathogenic in humans and other warm-blooded animals and include the causative agents of syphilis and yaws. — trep·o·ne·mal \-məl\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of TREPONEMA. 1. capitalized: a genus of the family Spirochaetaceae comprising anaerobic spirochetes that are pathogenic in humans and other warm-blooded animals and include one (T. pallidum) causing syphilis and another (T. pertenue) causing yaws. 2.
Syphillis is a sexually transmitted disease caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum. Syphillis can be treated with antibiotics. But if its left untreated, syphillis can damage the heart, aorta, brain, eyes, and bones. Symptoms of syphillis are numerous and vary by the stages of syphillis. 
Treponema pallidum is the causative agent of syphilis. Treponemes are mostly human pathogens, and have been studied extensively. One of these recent studies used limit-dilution procedures to isolate seven, helically coiled bacterial strains from faeces of swine that constituted two unidentified taxa. Treponema pallidum is the causative agent of syphilis. Syphilis first appeared in the late fifteenth century, shortly after Columbus and his men returned from the New World. Treponema pallidum is capable of infecting all tissues.
This bacterium can be detected with special stains, such as the Dieterle stain. T. pallidum is also detected by serology, including nontreponemal VDRL, rapid plasma reagin, and treponemal antibody tests (FTA-ABS), T. pallidum immobilization reaction, and syphilis TPHA test). (July 2014). T. p. pallidum is a motile spirochaete that is generally acquired by close sexual contact, entering the host via breaches in squamous or columnar epithelium.