Symptoms. Symptoms of a Corynebacterium infection are the same for urinary tract infections caused by other bacteria. They include a burning sensation while urinating, bloody or cloudy urine that has a strong odor, and the need to urinate frequently. Drinking plenty of water also is helpful because the extra fluid helps to flush the bacteria out of the urinary tract. In some cases of severe infection, hospitalization may be necessary, but most urinary tract infections caused by Corynebacteria are not very serious and can be treated at home on an outpatient basis.
Most UTIs are detected by performing a urinalysis and then confirmed with a urine culture. If there are pathogenic bacteria present, then susceptibility testing is done to make sure that the antibiotic that the doctor chooses will effectively treat the microorganism causing the infection. 1  Urinalysis. 2  Urine Culture.
Simple cystitis of short (1-5 day) duration Complicated UTI – Infection in a urinary tract with functional or structural abnormalities (ex. indwelling catheters and renal calculi). Cystitis of long duration or hemorrhagic cystitis. EPIDEMIOLOGY The prevalence of urinary tract infections varies with age and sex. Figure 3 Abnormalities of the urinary tract which lead to obstruction of the urinary flow are a major factor in the development of urinary infection. Extra-renal obstruction due to posterior urethral valves in infant boys or urethral strictures in adult men are uncommon but important to consider.
Organisms in the stomach are usually transient, and their populations are kept low (10 3 to 10 6 /g of contents) by acidity. Helicobacter pylori is a potential stomach pathogen that apparently plays a role in the formation of certain ulcer types. In normal hosts the duodenal flora is sparse (0 to 10 3 /g of contents). The ileum contains a moderately mixed flora (10 6 to 10 8 /g of contents). Even though most elements of the normal microbial flora inhabiting the human skin, nails, eyes, oropharynx, genitalia, and gastrointestinal tract are harmless in healthy individuals, these organisms frequently cause disease in compromised hosts.
Treatment may be started at this stage. If symptoms persist, UTI may be confirmed with a urine culture. If there are pathogenic bacteria present, then susceptibility testing is done to make sure that the antibiotic that your doctor chooses will have good activity against the microorganism causing your infection.
Are you sure these are C&S results? They sound like the results of a gram stain and microscopic exam of the urine, which is not the same, and tells you very little. Diphtheroids are bacteria that are shaped similar to the diphtheria bacteria (but are NOT diphtheria). The culture is also pretty much worthless unless a sensitivity test was also done to tell you what antibiotic would be appropriate if there were symptoms such as these. Also both are common on the skin and in the vagina and may indicate an incorrectly collected urine specimen.
1 White blood cells (WBC, leukocytes), red blood cells (RBC), nitrites, and bacteria in the urinalysis may indicate a UTI. 2  Urine Culture. 3  Urine is streaked on a thin layer of nutrient gel (agar plate), then incubated for 24-48 hours. If there are pathogenic bacteria present, then susceptibility testing is done to make sure that the antibiotic that the doctor chooses will effectively treat the microorganism causing the infection. 1  Urinalysis
White blood cells (WBC, leukocytes), red blood cells (RBC), nitrites, and bacteria in the urinalysis may indicate a UTI. Urine Culture. Urine is streaked on a thin layer of nutrient gel (agar plate), then incubated for 24-48 hours. Any bacteria that grow on the agar are counted and identified. If symptoms persist, UTI may be confirmed with a urine culture. If there are pathogenic bacteria present, then susceptibility testing is done to make sure that the antibiotic that your doctor chooses will have good activity against the microorganism causing your infection.
1 If there are three or more types of bacteria present (or, in a woman, if there are vaginal bacteria such as lactobacillus or diphtheroids), then it is considered to be a contaminated sample and no further work is done on the culture. If there are pathogenic bacteria present, then susceptibility testing is done to make sure that the antibiotic that the doctor chooses will effectively treat the microorganism causing the infection. 1  Urinalysis. 2  Urine Culture.
C diphtheriae infection is typically characterized by a local inflammation, usually in the upper respiratory tract, associated with toxin-mediated cardiac and neural disease. Three strains of C diphtheriae are recognized, in decreasing order of virulence: gravis, intermedius, and mitis. Infections with nondiphtherial corynebacteria are being reported more frequently, especially those associated with medical devices such as intravascular catheters, artificial valves, and CNS drainage devices. Moazzez et al (2007) found that 16% of breast abscesses in an urban county hospital were due to diphtheroids.