Another consistent trend in looking at QTL across traits and taxa is that phenotypes are frequently affected by a variety of interactions (e.g., genotype-by-sex, genotype-by-environment, and epistatic interactions between QTL), although not all QTL studies are designed to detect such interactions. A meta-analysis of extensive data in pigs and dairy found that QTL effects were skewed towards fewer QTL with large effects (Hayes and Goddard 2001). Orr (2001) addresses the question of defining and distinguishing between large and small effects. As with all statistical analyses, sample size is a critical factor.
QTL mapping/interval mapping-for quantitative traits like height that are polygenic. Same as linkage mapping except the phenotype is continuous and the markers are put into a scoring scheme to measure their contribution-i.e. marker effects or allelic contribution. Big in agriculture. 
Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis is a statistical method that links two types of information—phenotypic data (trait measurements) and genotypic data (usually molecular markers)—in an attempt to explain the genetic basis of variation in complex traits (Falconer & Mackay, 1996; Kearsey, 1998; Lynch & Walsh, 1998). A meta-analysis of extensive data in pigs and dairy found that QTL effects were skewed towards fewer QTL with large effects (Hayes and Goddard 2001). Orr (2001) addresses the question of defining and distinguishing between large and small effects. As with all statistical analyses, sample size is a critical factor.
The movie files that a QTL file references are located on a Web server and the files allow a user to download or stream the associated movie to his or her hard drive. Files that contain the .qtl file extension are text files that store QuickTime movie file links. These QTL files include the location of the associated movie file and the file's QuickTime settings. Some of the settings within the QTL file may include autoplay settings, controller settings, loop settings, etc. When you click a QTL link, it will open the associated movie file within the QuickTime media player as long as the Web server is configured with the proper MIME typ
A quantitative trait locus (QTL) is a section of DNA (the locus) that correlates with variation in a phenotype (the quantitative trait). The QTL typically is linked to, or contains, the genes that control that phenotype. QTLs are mapped by identifying which molecular markers (such as SNPs or AFLPs) correlate with an observed trait. This is often an early step in identifying and sequencing the actual genes that cause the trait variation. The principle for QTL mapping is: 1) The Likelihood can be calculated for a given set of parameters (particularly QTL effect and QTL position) given the observed data on phenotypes and marker genotypes. 2) The estimates for the parameters are those where the likelihood are highest.
A quantitative trait locus (QTL) is a region of DNA that is associated with a particular phenotypic trait. These QTLs are often found on different chromosomes. Knowing the number of QTLs that explains variation in the phenotypic trait tells us about the genetic architecture of a trait. The principle for QTL mapping is: 1) The Likelihood can be calculated for a given set of parameters (particularly QTL effect and QTL position) given the observed data on phenotypes and marker genotypes. 2) The estimates for the parameters are those where the likelihood are highest.
a) Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping requires parental strains (red and blue plots) that differ genetically for the trait, such as lines created by divergent artificial selection. A meta-analysis of extensive data in pigs and dairy found that QTL effects were skewed towards fewer QTL with large effects (Hayes and Goddard 2001). Orr (2001) addresses the question of defining and distinguishing between large and small effects. As with all statistical analyses, sample size is a critical factor.
Depending on the species, the trait, and how many (and how small) the QTL you found, that paper could be anywhere from a major finding to something buried in a never-heard-of-the-name-before journal. QTLs are one of those weird case (like cell phones) where smaller is better. Because the logical next step, after identifying a QTL, is to figure out what it is about that region which influences the measured trait. If the QTL in question is too large, that could mean trying to take a list of dozens or hundreds of genes and, somehow, devising a test to prove: It’s this one!