Please enable it in your browser. 5 Places You Must Visit in Kenya-Africa Point Blog. Whatever you want to do, from an incredible Kenya safari to a challenging climb, the country has a huge variety of wonders and Kenya attractions to take your breath away. To help you plan your own adventure, we’ve put our heads together and agreed on our five favourite places to visit in Kenya.
Visit magical Kenya, and experience all that Africa offers. The intrigue and adventure of Kenya reaches back into the birth of mankind, stretches along miles of white sand beaches and journeys into dense forests and divergent deserts. Archaeologists, paleoanthropologists and paleontologists from almost every part of the world come to Kenya to discover the earliest artifacts of humanity. Now you can visit the same internationally-recognized sites, and perhaps uncover your own clue to ancient human history.
Discover Kenya's top attractions and find out why Kenya is East Africa 's most popular tourist destination. What to see when you're visiting Kenya includes Kenya's best safari destinations, mountains, beaches and towns. 
Best Answer: Main four reasons to visit Kenya? I'd say: 1. Safari-Kenya is one of Africa's famous safari destinations 2. African culture-the Masai Mara is one popular destination for this, but many people looking to experience African culture (traditional and modern) will go to Kenya. 3.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Kenya has some of the best wildlife in the world and some of the best organised game parks in Africa. Also some great tribal encounters with the Masai and Samburu Plus white sandy beaches and clear blue sea, with many hotels catering for all inclusive holidays. Kenya has many good game parks and much wildlife in them. Good photo safaris are available. Also the coast has some good diving on coral reefs. Plus there is much culture to take in. It is well worth visiting if you get the chance.
3. Kenya is not a top tourist nation, so people who want to experience something different may find Kenya to be an interesting destination. 4. Volunteer work and missionary work are also very popular reasons for people traveling to Kenya. I'd say: 1. Safari-Kenya is one of Africa's famous safari destinations 2. African culture-the Masai Mara is one popular destination for this, but many people looking to experience African culture (traditional and modern) will go to Kenya.
Kenya is the home of the wildlife safari, and offers some of the best and most accessible game viewing in the world, including the hard-to-resist attraction of the Big Five (lion, leopard, elephant, buffalo and rhino). The Kenyan people are warm, friendly and hospitable. You will not feel like a stranger when you walk down the streets-you will arrive as a visitor and leave as a friend. The unique culture of some of the ethnic groups, especially the Maasai, is a great experience to be enjoyed.
Kenya is renowned for its diverse culture and heritage. Despite the numerous ethnic tribes that exist, Kenyans embrace a great sense of unity, peace, acceptance and closeness as one people and one country; all strong virtues of traditional African culture. The Kenyan people are warm, friendly and hospitable. You will not feel like a stranger when you walk down the streets-you will arrive as a visitor and leave as a friend. The unique culture of some of the ethnic groups, especially the Maasai, is a great experience to be enjoyed.
The wildlife mostly. Kenya has many good game parks and much wildlife in them. Good photo safaris are available. Also the coast has some good diving on coral reefs. Plus there is much culture to take in. It is well worth visiting if you get the chance.
Food and drink. Kenya coffee, tea and beer have received accolades as some of the best products in the world. In fact, Kenya beer is so popular, both locally and abroad, that the Kenyan breweries are looking to expand their beer export to more countries, including the United States. Kenya also has a rich variety of cuisine. The Kenyan people are warm, friendly and hospitable. You will not feel like a stranger when you walk down the streets-you will arrive as a visitor and leave as a friend. The unique culture of some of the ethnic groups, especially the Maasai, is a great experience to be enjoyed.