Eye Stye is an acute inflammatory infection of an eyelash follicle and forms a red, sore lump near the edge of the lid margin. A sty in eye is an common infection or inflammation of the secretory glands of the eyelids.
A sty is a red, painful lump near the edge of your eyelid that may look like a boil or a pimple. Sties are often filled with pus. A sty usually forms on the outside of your eyelid. But sometimes it can form on the inner part
A sty (sometimes spelled stye) is a tender, painful red bump located at the base of an eyelash or inside the eyelid. A sty results from an acute infection of the oil glands of the eyelid that occurs after these glands have become clogged. A sty also may arise from an infected hair follicle at the base of an eyelash.
1 A stye is an infection that causes a tender red lump on the eyelid. 2  Most styes occur along the edge of the eyelid. 3  When a stye occurs inside the eyelid, it is called an internal hordeolum (say hor-dee-OH-lum). 4  A chalazion (say kuh-LAY-zee-on) is a lump i
A stye (or sty) is an acute infection of the secretory glands of the eyelids. Frequently, bacteria can enter and infect an eyelid oil gland, which are present in both the upper and lower eyelids, causing increased inflammation, pain, and redness of the eye, and even redness of the surrounding eyelid and cheek tissue.
A stye or hordeolum is a small, painful lump on the inside or outside of the eyelid. It is actually an abscess filled with pus and is usually caused by a staphylococcus bacteria eye infection. Styes are common with most people experiencing one or two of them at some stage in their life.
Styes and chalazia are lumps in or along the edge of an eyelid. They may be painful or annoying, but they are rarely serious. Most will go away on their own without treatment. 1  A stye is an infection that causes a tender red lump on the eyelid.
A stye usually starts as a red bump that looks like a pimple along the edge of the eyelid. 1  As the stye grows, the eyelid becomes swollen and painful, and the eye may water. 2  Most styes swell for about 3 days before they break open and drain. 3  Styes usually heal in about a week.