The name giant panda is sometimes used to distinguish it from the unrelated red panda. Though it belongs to the order Carnivora, the giant panda's diet is over 99% bamboo. Giant pandas in the wild will occasionally eat other grasses, wild tubers, or even meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion. 
But one reason they eat so much is that bamboo is low in nutrients, according to the San Diego Zoo. Giant pandas also eat rodents, fish, insects and birds. Eating both vegetation and meat makes these pandas omnivores. The giant panda's stomach is ideal for digesting bamboo. The walls of the stomach are extra-muscular to digest the wood of the bamboo. The stomach is also covered inside with mucus that prevents it from being punctured by splinters. 
Wild giant pandas are found in the mountains of central China in dense bamboo and coniferous forests at altitudes of 5,000 to 10,000 feet. Driven nearly to extinction by habitat loss and poaching, these elusive and secretive mammals are among the rarest in the world, with only an estimated 1,600 remaining in the wild. 
Helping Giant Pandas. People the world over love the black-and-white bears known as pandas. The giant panda is a national treasure in China, and these rare A species that has small populations, so that even a slight decrease in numbers could cause extinction. bears are protected by law. Today, only around 1,600 giant pandas survive on Earth
Edit 5 54 …. The Giant Panda, simply known as the panda is a type of bear native to the the central-western and south-western parts of China. It has become one of the most endangered animals on this planet for a number of reasons. The type of symbiotic relationship the giant panda has is commensalism. Both the giant panda and bacteria share a symbiotic relationship, in which the animal benefits and the bacteria is neither helped nor harmed.
The seeds grow slowly into plants large enough for pandas to eat. Giant pandas can eat 25 different types of bamboo, but they usually eat only the 4 or 5 kinds that grow in their home range. The unusual thing about bamboo is that all of the plants of one species growing in an area bloom and die at the same time. Through studying the genetic code (DNA) in pandas’ cells, scientists have confirmed the panda's relationship with bears. Giant pandas are similar to other bears in their general looks, the way they walk and climb, their skull characteristics, and, importantly, their social system and reproductive biology.
Giant pandas are black and white and loved all over. The giant panda is a national treasure in China and is therefore protected by law in its bamboo forest home. This unique bear has long been revered by the Chinese and can be found in Chinese art dating back thousands of years. Through studying the genetic code (DNA) in pandas’ cells, scientists have confirmed the panda's relationship with bears. Giant pandas are similar to other bears in their general looks, the way they walk and climb, their skull characteristics, and, importantly, their social system and reproductive biology.
A panda's daily diet consists almost entirely of the leaves, stems and shoots of various bamboo species. Bamboo contains very little nutritional value so pandas must eat 12-38kg every day to meet their energy needs. But they do branch out, with about 1% of their diet comprising other plants and even meat. 
One of the adaptations of the Giant Panda is that the Panda's thumb is actually not a thumb, but a long wrist bone, which enables them to grasp the bamboo using their hands. In regards to their teeth, giant pandas need strong teeth, as well as strong jaw muscles, in order to chew through bamboo plants. The type of symbiotic relationship the giant panda has is commensalism. Both the giant panda and bacteria share a symbiotic relationship, in which the animal benefits and the bacteria is neither helped nor harmed.
A Giant Panda eating a bamboo. Dhole, also known as Asiatic wild dog, is native to southeast Asia. Due to constant habitat loss, dholes have been classified as endangered species. The dhole, native to southeast Asia, is a secondary consumer. The type of symbiotic relationship the giant panda has is commensalism. Both the giant panda and bacteria share a symbiotic relationship, in which the animal benefits and the bacteria is neither helped nor harmed.