The North Dakota State University Main Research Station is located on the campus of the North Dakota State University. The station is the administrative location of the North Dakota Agricultural Experiment Station (NDAES). The administrative unit of the NDAES is housed in Morrill Hall on the Fargo campus. The station conducts research and coordinates all research activities of the Agricultural Experiment Station. The main station is home to more than 2,500 acres of crop research ground in and around the Fargo campus, the AES greenhouse complex; beef systems center of excellence; and other laboratories, centers and institutes www.ag.ndsu.edu/research/laboratories-centers-institutes.
This anthology series is an adaptation of the Fargo feature film and each season follows a new “true crime” case and new characters in Minnesota. For example, in the first season: Lorne Malvo (Billy Bob Thornton) is a rootless and manipulative man who meets and forever changes the life of small town insurance salesman Lester Nygaard (Martin Freeman).
The all new true crime case of Fargo's new chapter travels back to 1979 in Sioux Falls, South Dakota and Luverne, Minnesota, where a young State Police Officer investigates a case involving a local crime gang and a major Mob syndicate. Billy Bob Thornton, Martin Freeman, Allison Tolman | See full cast and crew ». Storyline. The all new true crime case of Fargo's new chapter travels back to 1979 in Sioux Falls, South Dakota and Luverne, Minnesota, where a young State Police Officer Lou Solverson, recently back from Vietnam,
Series status: Has not been cancelled. Performers include: Billy Bob Thornton, Martin Freeman, Colin Hanks, Allison Tolman, Bob Odenkirk, Oliver Platt, Kate Walsh, Glenn Howerton, Joey King, Peter Breitmayer, Tom Musgrave, Josh Close, Russell Harvard, Adam Goldberg, Keegan-Michael Key, and Jordan Peele. For example, in the first season: Lorne Malvo (Billy Bob Thornton) is a rootless and manipulative man who meets and forever changes the life of small town insurance salesman Lester Nygaard (Martin Freeman).
A TV Version of ‘Fargo’ Has Parallels to the Film. Billy Bob Thornton in the new series “Fargo,” based very loosely on the 1996 film by Ethan and Joel Coen. The show begins Tuesday on FX. 
Fargo is an American anthology black comedy – crime drama television series created and primarily written by Noah Hawley. The show is inspired by the 1996 film of the same name written and directed by the Coen brothers, who serve as executive producers on the series. It premiered on April 15, 2014, on FX. In 2012, it was announced that FX, with the Coen brothers as executive producers, was developing a new television series based on the 1996 Academy Award-winning film Fargo. It was later announced that adaptation would be a 10-episode limited series.
Station History. Fargo, the largest city in North Dakota, was founded in 1871 and has been historically known as the Gateway to the West.. Amtrak has a waiting room in the old American Railway Express Agency building adjacent to the former Great Northern Railway (GN) depot. 
ATM Deposit Cutoff. Checks deposited at Envelope-Free SM ATMs before 9:00 pm weekdays are considered received that same day. Checks deposited after 9:00 pm weekdays or on bank holidays are considered received the next business day. Cash deposits are available for use immediately. ATM Deposit Cutoff. Checks deposited at Envelope-Free SM ATMs before 8:00 pm weekdays are considered received that same day. Checks deposited after 8:00 pm weekdays or on bank holidays are considered received the next business day. Cash deposits are available for use immediately.