The hormones of the pituitary gland send signals to other endocrine glands to stimulate or inhibit their own hormone production. For example, the anterior pituitary lobe will release adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) to stimulate cortisol production in the adrenal glands when you’re stressed. The pituitary gland is often dubbed the “master gland” because its hormones control other parts of the endocrine system, namely the thyroid gland, adrenal glands, ovaries, and testes.
Hormones of the Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is highly involved in pituitary gland function. When it receives a signal from the nervous system, the hypothalamus secretes substances known as neurohormones that start and stop the secretion of pituitary hormones.
The pituitary, a pea-sized gland at the base of the brain, produces a number of hormones. Each of these hormones affects a specific part of the body (a target organ or tissue). Because the pituitary controls the function of most other endocrine glands, it is often called the master gland. Hormone. The pituitary is a pea-sized gland that is housed within a bony structure (sella turcica) at the base of the brain. The sella turcica protects the pituitary but allows very little room for expansion. The pituitary controls the function of most other endocrine glands and is therefore sometimes
Hypothalamic Disease. A disease or disorder of the hypothalamus is known as a hypothalamic disease. A physical injury to the head that impacts the hypothalamus is one of the most common causes of hypothalamic disease. The hypothalamus is highly involved in pituitary gland function. When it receives a signal from the nervous system, the hypothalamus secretes substances known as neurohormones that start and stop the secretion of pituitary hormones.
Another pituitary disorder is known as pituitary apoplexy. In some cases, pituitary function can be suddenly disrupted (due to bleeding or trauma), creating a life-threatening shortage of vital hormones. If you think you may have a problem with your pituitary gland, you should talk to an endocrinologist. The pituitary gland is often dubbed the “master gland” because its hormones control other parts of the endocrine system, namely the thyroid gland, adrenal glands, ovaries, and testes.
About the Pituitary Gland. The pituitary gland is often referred to as the control center of the endocrine system. This is because it controls and regulates the functions of the other endocrine glands within the body. Remarkably, this regulating gland located at the base of the brain is no larger than the size of an average pencil eraser.
1 5 Books About PTSD Formerly known as shell shock or battle fatigue syndrome, post-traumatic stress disorder, or better known as PTSD, is a disorder that a person can develop after experiencing 2  …. Understanding the Function of the Pituitary Gland The pituitary gland is a part of the endocrine system. Share to: 1  5 Books About PTSD Formerly known as shell shock or battle fatigue syndrome, post-traumatic stress disorder, or better known as PTSD, is a disorder that a person can develop after experiencing ….
Hypopituitary Causes. A loss of function of the pituitary gland or hypothalamus results in low or absent hormones. Tumors can cause damage to the pituitary gland or hypothalamus and can therefore result in a loss of function. Damage to the pituitary gland can also be caused by radiation, surgery, infections such as meningitis, or various other conditions. In some cases, the cause is unknown. 
Edit. Share to: 1  5 Books About PTSD Formerly known as shell shock or battle fatigue syndrome, post-traumatic stress disorder, or better known as PTSD, is a disorder that a person can develop after experiencing 2  …. Understanding the Function of the Pituitary Gland The pituitary gland is a part of the endocrine system. Share to: 1  5 Books About PTSD Formerly known as shell shock or battle fatigue syndrome, post-traumatic stress disorder, or better known as PTSD, is a disorder that a person can develop after experiencing ….
1 The hormones of the pituitary gland help regulate the functions of other endocrine glands. 2  The pituitary gland has two parts—the anterior lobe and posterior lobe—that have two very separate functions. 3  The hypothalamus sends signals to the pituitary to release or inhibit pituitary hormone production. The pituitary gland is often dubbed the “master gland” because its hormones control other parts of the endocrine system, namely the thyroid gland, adrenal glands, ovaries, and testes.