If your urine is just a dark yellow color at times, especially when you don’t drink enough fluids, then you don’t need to worry. Dark yellow urine is a sign of dehydration. Your urine is dark because your kidneys are doing what they are supposed to do when you are dehydrated: conserving water by making less urine. If this is the case, drink more water — eight 8-ounce glasses each day. Certain foods and medicines can change urine color and make it smell.
Your urine’s color can act as a barometer for everything from your hydration status to your liver and kidney function. While the color of pee often varies throughout the day and can change due to certain foods or medications, there are a few changes in your urine that you shouldn’t ignore. Urine that is dark yellow or even orange could simply indicate that you’re dehydrated – you might notice it in the morning after a long night without water, for example.
Now, some foods may also cause your urine to have a dark yellow urine color. Asparagus makes your urine darker yellow and it creates a strong odor. The important thing is to think about your diet. If you do not drink enough water, then your urine becomes over-concentrated with waste, which is why it is a darker yellow urine color. You may also notice a stronger odor since the concentration is higher.
If you haven’t had any foods that may cause the dark yellow urine color, then there are some illnesses that can show symptoms such as dark yellow urine color. 1  Blood in the urine, also known as Haematuria, can cause darker urine. If you do not drink enough water, then your urine becomes over-concentrated with waste, which is why it is a darker yellow urine color. You may also notice a stronger odor since the concentration is higher.
Normal urine color ranges from pale yellow to deep amber — the result of a pigment called urochrome and how diluted or concentrated the urine is. Pigments and other compounds in certain foods and medications may change your urine color. Beets, berries and fava beans are among the foods most likely to affect urine color. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications give urine vivid tones, such as raspberry red, lemon yellow or greenish blue. 
A Discovery Health answered. If your urine is any color other than yellowish-orange, yellow or clear-you could have a serious medical condition. Very dark orange, reddish or brown urine, for instance, likely has blood in it and could be a sign of infection. There are some prescription drugs, however, that can change the color of your urine simply by passing through your system.
The natural color of urine is pale yellow, however, it can become dark yellow, brown, or reddish in color, due to a number of factors like dehydration, and the intake of certain foods and medications. Urine that is dark yellow in color is often a sign that one is dehydrated, or not drinking enough water. This can also happen when an individual sweats a lot, and does not replenish the lost water. Other important factors that can lead to dehydration are excessive vomiting and diarrhea.
Dehydration. Urine that is dark yellow in color is often a sign that one is dehydrated, or not drinking enough water. This can also happen when an individual sweats a lot, and does not replenish the lost water. Other important factors that can lead to dehydration are excessive vomiting and diarrhea.
Urine that is pink, red, brown or rust-colored may indicate a urinary tract problem. However, before getting worried, think back to what you had to eat recently. Foods such as beets, blackberries and rhubarb as well as heavily dyed foods may harmlessly and temporarily turn your pee red or pink. Urine that is dark yellow or even orange could simply indicate that you’re dehydrated – you might notice it in the morning after a long night without water, for example.
Darkened urine is urine that is dark yellow, brown, dark red, or red, and it may range from slightly dark to considerably dark. A change in urine color may be temporary, or it may be persistent. The duration and course of darkened urine can vary widely, depending on the cause. Your urine may turn dark if you have had any damage or injury to any of the structures of the urinary tract, including the kidney, bladder, urethras, or ureter. It may also darken as a result of eating certain foods, such as beets, red cabbage, red berries or candy, or ingesting anything that contains red dyes.