1 European axes at the most might have wide scallops filed on the edge of the blade plate on the inside or bottom of the beard, and that is not common. 2  Place the scallop pattern along the foldline and transfer the scallops to the fabric. More example sentences. 1 
Scallop Limits. The bag limit is 2 gallons of whole scallops (in the shell), or 1 pint of scallop meat per person per day with no more than 10 gallons of whole scallops or 1/2 gallon of scallop meat aboard the vessel at any time. Scallops can only be harvested by hand or with a landing or dip net. 
10. Many scallops are hermaphrodites-they have both male and female sex organs. Others are only male or female. Scallops reproduce by spawning-releasing eggs and sperm into the water. Once an egg is fertilized, the young scallop is planktonic, and then settles to the sea floor, attaching to an object with byssal threads. Most scallop species lose this byssus and become free-swimming as they grow. 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Scallops are edible bivalves similar to oysters and clams. They are found both in bay waters and in the sea. In terms of texture they are somewhat similar to white fish and have a fairly sweet flavor that is ideal for many different dishes. Scallops are both fished and farmed or cultivated in water for harvest. They do not attach themselves to a permanent anchorage, but move themselves through the water by opening and closing their shells. As a result, the muscle that controls the hinge of the shell is much larger than that of oysters or clams.
Pat dry and sprinkle with salt and pepper: Pat the scallops dry with a paper towel. Sprinkle them generously with salt and pepper. Heat the pan: Heat the butter or olive oil in the pan over medium-high heat. When a few flecks of water evaporate on contact, the pan is ready. 
As has been said, it is a mollusk. 'Scallops are edible bivalves similar to oysters and clams. They are found both in bay waters and in the sea. They do not attach themselves to a permanent anchorage, but move themselves through the water by opening and closing their shells. 
Scallop (/ˈskɒləp/ or /ˈskaeləp/) ˈskæləp is a common name that is primarily applied to any one of numerous species of saltwater clams or marine bivalve mollusks in the taxonomic Family, pectinidae the. scallops The shell of a scallop consists of two sides or valves, a left valve and a right one, divided by a plane of symmetry. Most species of scallop rest on their right valve, and consequently this valve is often shaped differently than the left (i.e., upper) valve.
The word scallop is also applied to the meat of these bivalves when it is sold as seafood. In addition the name scallop is used as part of the name of dishes based on the meat of scallops, and is even applied to some dishes not containing scallop at all but which are prepared in a similar fashion. The shell of a scallop consists of two sides or valves, a left valve and a right one, divided by a plane of symmetry. Most species of scallop rest on their right valve, and consequently this valve is often shaped differently than the left (i.e., upper) valve.
Full Definition of SCALLOP. 1. a: any of numerous marine bivalve lamellibranch mollusks (family Pectinidae) that have a radially ribbed shell with the edge undulated and that swim by opening and closing the valves b: the adductor muscle of a scallop as an article of food. 2