Sea vegetables like kelp and wakame are not the only sea-based foods rich in iodine, however. All six of our seafoods rank as good, very good, or excellent sources of this mineral. In the excellent category you will find scallops and cod. In the very good category you will find shrimp. As described earlier, even though researchers know a good bit about iodine in relationship to the environment, less is known about other health support roles for iodine in the body. However, one area in which we are not lacking for information is the role of iodine in thyroid health.
Iodized salt is the main source of iodine in the diet. Plant and animal sea life, such as shellfish, white deep-water fish, and brown seaweed kelp, absorb iodine from the water and are great sources of iodine. Overview. Iodine is a trace mineral the body needs to make thyroid hormones, which are essential for normal growth and development. In your body, about 70 to 80% of iodine is found in the thyroid gland in the neck. The rest is distributed throughout the body, particularly in the ovaries, muscles, and blood.
Sources of iodine include seafood, iodised table salt and bread. The iodine content of plants and vegetables is dependent on the environment and soil in which they are grown. Marine sources: marine foods, including regular fish (e.g. tinned salmon) and shell fish (e.g. oysters) are the best sources of iodine. 
Best Dietary Sources of Iodine. The trace mineral iodine is naturally present in a number of foods, and as your body cannot make its own iodine, you must obtain the needed iodine from your diet. Some of the best dietary sources of iodine include seaweed (such as kelp), dairy products, eggs, watercress, ocean fish, and foods that contain iodized salt. Sufficient levels of iodine are particularly important for the thyroid gland which uses iodine to produce thyroid hormone. 
Good sources of iodine. 1  Salt-salt intake should be limited, but when used it should be iodised. 2  Seaweed-foods such as sushi are a good source. 3  Dairy products, fruits, vegetables, eggs, seafood and meat all contain iodine in varying quantities. 1 Salt-salt intake should be limited, but when used it should be iodised. 2  Seaweed-foods such as sushi are a good source. 3  Dairy products, fruits, vegetables, eggs, seafood and meat all contain iodine in varying quantities. 4  Bread-voluntary iodine fortification of bread began in 2008 and it will be mandatory in 18 month
Share. The thyroid gland synthesizes thyroid hormones and iodine is an essential trace mineral that is crucial for the thyroid to function properly. Eating foods rich in iodine ensures the thyroid is able to manage metabolism, detoxification, growth and development. The good news is that there are many popular foods with iodine, all of which are easy to incorporate into your daily diet. The Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) for iodine is 150 micrograms daily for everybody over the age of 14. The RDA for children ages 1-8 is 90/mcg every day, ages 9-13 is 120/mcg every day.
Iodine is a trace element that is naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. Iodine is an essential component of the thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Other good sources include seafood, dairy products (partly due to the use of iodine feed supplements and iodophor sanitizing agents in the dairy industry [ 8 ]), grain products, and eggs. Dairy products, especially milk, and grain products are the major contributors of iodine to the American diet [ 9 ].
Good sources of iodine. Iodine is a trace element found in seawater, rocks and some types of soil. Good food sources include sea fish and shellfish. Iodine can also be found in plant foods, such as cereals and grains, but the levels vary, depending on the amount of iodine in the soil where the plants are grown.
1 The best natural occurring source of iodine is saltwater seafood. 2  Freshwater seafood also contains iodine. 3  Iodine is added to all table salt in Canada. 4  1 teaspoon of table salt contains 380 mcg of iodine. 5  Kosher, pickling and sea salt are a source of natural iodine but do not contain as much as iodized table salt. 