Don't even think about baking puff pastry in the microwave or toaster oven. It just doesn't work. Baking temperatures vary. Most pastry chefs agree with the instructions on the box -- bake puff pastry at a high temperature for a short time, usually at 400 degrees for about 20 minutes. When the pastry is high and golden brown, it is done. Here are some tips for working with ready-made puff pastry. Thaw frozen pastry sheets at room temperature for 20 to 30 minutes before gently unfolding. Wrap unused sheets in plastic wrap or foil and return to the freezer. Always preheat the oven prior to baking as directed in the recipe.
A room-temperature atmosphere will cause the puff pastry to wilt and become floppy. That, in turn, will make the layers stick, and render it almost impossible to work with. If your puff pastry gets too soft, return it to the fridge for 20 to 30 minutes before moving forward. With a claim like that, it’s worth looking into how you can make better use of this rockstar freezer staple. From thawing it to filling it to baking it, there are a few rules you need to follow for the flakiest, most buttery puff pastry this side of the Mississippi (and maybe even the other). The process of making your own puff pastry is time-consuming and labor intensive
I assume you are add pastry to the top of an oven proof dish filled with your chicken pie! Simple: Have your rolled pastry ready in the fridge. If you're using the pre-rolled pastry-about 3mm thick-leave it as is. If you're buying a block roll it out to 3mm thick-see tips. Make sure your pie filling is hot. Pour the filling directly from your sauce pan into the oven proof dish. Lay your pastry over the top, trim it if you want. Brush the top of the pie with egg wash (30% milk 70% egg beaten). Put it into the oven-which should be preheated-and bake @ 200C/390F for 20-25mins. If you oven is fan assisted set it to 180C/350F. ref: http://powerhungry.com/2009/02/puff-pastry-docking/. 2) In general, to cook food more evenly, one should cook longer at a lower temperature. The problem is that the dough on the bottom of your crust is not reaching a high enough temperature by the time the top of your crust is done cooking.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Baking temps of 400-degrees to 425 are best for most puff pastry dough. Cooler temps will not create enough steam in the products to leaven them well. Higher temps will set the crust too quickly. My brother, who is a pastry chef, didnt give me a time. He said until golden. 
Bake the case blind. Heat oven to 200C/180C fan/gas 6. Fill the pastry case with a round of baking paper and add baking beans (see tip) to weigh it down. Bake for 15 mins, then carefully remove the paper and beans and cook the pastry for 5 mins more (this is called baking blind). 
Most things will cook well at 180c, it's a very good catch-all temperature if you're not sure, go for 180c. 180c is 350f or gas mark 4 brush the top of the pastry with egg, or milk, and cook it for about 20 mins or until it's golden. The filling will be pre-cooked, and I am topping the dishes with rough-puff pastry (which I have made and is now resting in my fridge). But I just realised I don't know how long to cook it for, or at what temperature, to get my pastry golden and flaky and...
Many brands of frozen puff pastry cut their butter with vegetable oil. It’s worth searching for and buying the all-butter brands (Our favorite is Dufour). “This is for both flakiness and flavor,” says Perry, explaining that all-butter puff pastry will result in those gorgeous layers of dough, similar to in a pie crust. With a claim like that, it’s worth looking into how you can make better use of this rockstar freezer staple. From thawing it to filling it to baking it, there are a few rules you need to follow for the flakiest, most buttery puff pastry this side of the Mississippi (and maybe even the other). The process of making your own puff pastry is time-consuming and labor intensive
In almost all cookbooks, the recommended temperature for baking a pie or tart pastry blind is 425 to 450 degrees. Pamela A. Asquith's ''The Fruit Tart Cookbook'' (Harmon Books, 1982) even tells readers that baking a crust at too low a temperature might make it tough. 