Tip # 1: Buy quality products. If your nail polish tends to chip within two hours after applying it, you need to invest in salon quality nail polish not just the grocery brand. Tip # 2: Applying base and top coats is necessary. In doing a manicure, always apply a base coat first before applying a colored nail polish. Apply 2 coats of colored nail polish before applying a top coat. Let every coat dry before applying the next one. Be sure to do this in every fingernail and toenail. Although the quality nail polish costs more, the better result you can get. Tip # 4: Make sure nails are thoroughly clean. Free your nails from oil since it contributes in the chipping of nail polish. You can apply nail polish remover even if your nails are polish-free to get rid of natural oils on the nail surface. Tip # 5: Don’t apply nail polish that is too thick
Apply a Clear Topcoat. Topcoat helps extend the life of your manicure. You can use the base coat as a topcoat. Do brush topcoat on and around the edges of nails as well, it's an extra seal against chipping. Allow Proper Drying Time. This is where I always mess up because I tend to be impatient with nail drying times
1 Your nails should be completely dry when you apply your basecoat. 2  If your nail bed is even slightly wet, it prevents your basecoat and/or polish from properly adhering to your nails. 3  If the polish isn’t adhering to your nails… it’s likely to lift off and chip. 4  After a manicure, you should avoid getting your nails wet. Terri St Peter. My daughter did my nails and applied nail polish remover to all my nails just before putting on the base coat. My regular nail polish lasted 6 days before a couple nails chipped. Last week she did my nails again and I was more careful with lotions, soap etc and it has been 6 days and no chips yet.
Step #1: Buff your nails using a Block Buffer. Nails are naturally porous and the goal of buffing your nails with a Block Buffer is to remove as much moisture from the nail as possible. Tips: 1  Do not use a nail file in place of a Block Buffer. 2  Nail files will remove too much from the surface of your nail and weaken it. 1 Do not use a nail file in place of a Block Buffer. 2  Nail files will remove too much from the surface of your nail and weaken it. 3  The above picture is how I hold the Block Buffer when I’m using it. 4  Before using your Block Buffer for the first time, run your nail file over the four pointy edges.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. There is no way to stop the chip but you can help it. Try polishing your nails with thin layers of polish and let completely dry. You can also hold your nails under a lamp. The heat from the lamp bakes on the polish to help prevent chipping. When you apply the top coat, apply it thick but don't glob it up. To help chipping try using OPI ChipSkip clear coat and follow the directions on the bottle. If none of this helps, just toss the polish and try a different brand. ♥nikki♥ · 8 years ago.
Instructions. Wipe your nails with nail polish remover, even if you don't have any prior nail polish on your nails. The nail polish remover will swipe away oils and debris as well, making a clean canvas for your polish application. When nails are clean, polish is able to adhere to them more strongly. Choose a high-quality nail polish. While you can find great deals on nail polishes, it may be worth your money to invest in a higher-end polish. Since they often contain superior ingredients, they are less susceptible to flaking and chipping. Apply a protective top coat to your nails. Choose a clear top coat that purports its strengthening and protective qualities. Reapply the top coat every few days to keep the polish protected. Let the polish fully dry before engaging in standard activities
1) Avoid water. 1  Water is great for your skin, but terrible for polish on your nails. 2  Your nails should be completely dry when you apply your basecoat. 3  If your nail bed is even slightly wet, it prevents your basecoat and/or polish from properly adhering to your nails. Terri St Peter. My daughter did my nails and applied nail polish remover to all my nails just before putting on the base coat. My regular nail polish lasted 6 days before a couple nails chipped. Last week she did my nails again and I was more careful with lotions, soap etc and it has been 6 days and no chips yet.
Tip: 1  Let your nails dry for a few minutes before applying your top coat. 2  If they’re still wet when you apply the top coat, you could get white (or whatever color you’re using) on your brush. 3  Red could give your entire bottle of top coat a pink tinge and white could add a streak of white to the rest of your nails. 1 Do not use a nail file in place of a Block Buffer. 2  Nail files will remove too much from the surface of your nail and weaken it. 3  The above picture is how I hold the Block Buffer when I’m using it. 4  Before using your Block Buffer for the first time, run your nail file over the four pointy edges.