Common Name(s). Carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome type I. Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of autosomal recessive disorders caused by enzymatic defects in the synthesis and processing of asparagine (N)-linked glycans or oligosaccharides on glycoproteins.
The following is a run down of the main carbohydrate metabolism disorders 1  : Galactosemia. 2  Galactosemia is an inherited that affects the way the sugar galactose is broken down, due to the lack of the enzyme galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase.
In the advanced stage many diseases are prevalent in the sufferer before death occurs. Carbohydrates displace essential protein and essential fats in the diet to cause a double health reversal. The carbohydrates themselves cause disease, and the deficiency of protein and fats contribute or cause other diseases.
Disease Ontology: An inherited metabolic disorder that affect the catabolism and anabolism of carbohydrates. MalaCards based summary: Carbohydrate Metabolic Disorder, also known as disorder of carbohydrate transport and metabolism, is related to pentosuria and pyruvate dehydrogenase e1-alpha deficiency.
The following plus many more diseases are considered, by the medical world and by some lay people alike, to be either caused by or related to carbohydrates of various kinds in the diet.
Carbohydrates are being shunned by health conscious, rather weight conscious, people. They have to understand that carbohydrate deficiency diseases and their manifestations are certain to appear if there is too much exclusion of carbohydrates in the diet.
Severe defects of the pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex and the benign chemical anomaly called pentosuria have been reported in very few (2-6) patients. Patients with inherited disorders of carbohydrate metabolism tend to be seen at tertiary centers, where specialist teams are available.
Carbohydrate Metabolism Disorders. Carbohydrates are the body's sugar source. Sugars used to provide energy for the body include glucose, sucrose, fructose among many others. Some sugars need to be broken down, usually by enzymes, before they can be used by the body.
Disorders of carbohydrate metabolism occur in many forms. The most common disorders are acquired. Acquired or secondary derangements in carbohydrate metabolism, such as diabetic ketoacidosis, hyperosmolar coma, and hypoglycemia, all affect the central nervous system.
Prolonged deprivation leads to the symptoms and diseases connected with severe carbohydrate short fall. The symptoms include hypoglycemia, confusion, tremor, feverishness, giddiness, fatigue, distress, delirium, muscles atrophy, loss of muscle tissue and reduces stamina.