Velcro Industries is a privately held worldwide corporation manufacturing consumer and industrial products. Among them is a series of mechanical-based fastening products, including a brand of fabric hook and loop fastener often colloquially referred to by the company name, Velcro.
Percy Shaw, OBE (15 April 1890 – 1 September 1976) was an English inventor and businessman. He patented the reflective road stud or  cat's eye  in 1934, and set up a company to manufacture his invention in 1935. Shaw's father also had seven children by his first wife, Jane Brearley, who died in 1883. In 1892, his parents moved their large family to Boothtown in Halifax, where Shaw lived for the rest of his life. Shaw was educated at Boothtown Board School, and started work as a labourer in a cloth mill at the age of 13.
The wheel was voted as the most important invention in history, with the aeroplane in second place, the lightbulb third, the worldwide web fourth and computers fifth. The iPhone has been voted a more important invention than the washing machine, combustion engine and space travel, according to a survey. The iPhone came eighth, while Thomas Crapper's flushing toilet was ninth. The internal combustion engine came tenth. 7:00AM BST 19 May 2010.
Shaw was inventive, even at an early age, but his most famous invention was the cat's eye for lighting the way along roads in the dark. There are several stories about how he came up with the idea. Shaw's father also had seven children by his first wife, Jane Brearley, who died in 1883. In 1892, his parents moved their large family to Boothtown in Halifax, where Shaw lived for the rest of his life. Shaw was educated at Boothtown Board School, and started work as a labourer in a cloth mill at the age of 13.
In 1958, de Mestral filed for a patent application for his hook-and-loop fastener in Switzerland, which was granted in 1961. The term Velcro is a registered trademark of Velcro Industries B.V. Among them is a series of mechanical-based fastening products, including a brand of fabric hook and loop fastener often colloquially referred to by the company name, Velcro.
The original patented hook and loop fastener was invented in 1948 by the Swiss electrical engineer George de Mestral, who patented it in 1955 and subsequently refined and developed its practical manufacture until its commercial introduction in the late 1950s. Among them is a series of mechanical-based fastening products, including a brand of fabric hook and loop fastener often colloquially referred to by the company name, Velcro.
JOHN LOGIE BAIRD (1888-1946). It was in his rooms in Soho, London, that in 1925 John Logie Baird made a technical breakthrough: successfully transmitting a 30-line vertically scanned image of the head of a ventriloquist's dummy. A Scottish engineer, Baird is considered to be the inventor of the television. The brilliant Christopher Cockerell came up with one of the greatest British inventions of the second half of the 20th century: the hovercraft.
Pratley's famous glue is the only South African invention that has been to the moon. In 1969 the putty was used to hold bits of the Apollo XI mission's Eagle landing craft together. Pratley died in 1983 and today the company is run by his son, Kim. Speed gun. The South African-made speed gun, developed by Somerset West inventor Henri Johnson, was formally launched at The Oval in England during the 1999 Cricket World Cup. Generally referred to as a speed gun, Johnson's gizmo is sold in cricketing countries and in the US and Europe.
The most sinister story about Edison involves the invention of motion pictures. He is popularly regarded as the father of motion pictures, but a very strong argument could be made that Louis Le Prince, a French inventor, invented working motion pictures before Edison. There is no question that Thomas Edison was a brilliant man, and some of his 1,000+ inventions have shaped our lives. But he was hardly the saint of science we were originally taught to believe.