Rialto Bridge-The Most Famous Bridge In Venice. The current Rialto Bridge, a stone arch, was constructed under the supervision of Antonio da Ponte, between 1588 and 1591. The construction was made difficult by the conditions of instability and by the height of the sea bottom. 
Rialto Bridge. The Rialto Bridge is the most famous of the bridges that cross the Grand Canal (the other two are the Accademia Bridge and the Scalzi). 
Rialto Bridge Photo © 2009 by Barbara Molini, used by permission. The Rialto Bridge is one of the most famous bridges in Venice and one of Venice's top attractions. The first of only four bridges to span the Grand Canal, the Rialto Bridge is lined with shops and is a gateway to the Rialto Market. 
The Rialto Bridge, most famous and loveliest span across Venice's Grand Canal, and the market that extends from its foot into San Polo. The Rialto Bridge as it appeared in 1494, in a detail from a painting by Vittore Carpaccio in the Accademia Galleries. 
The Rialto Bridge (Italian: Ponte di Rialto) is one of the four bridges spanning the Grand Canal in Venice, Italy. It is the oldest bridge across the canal, and was the dividing line for the districts of San Marco and San Polo. Detail of the bridge. The development and importance of the Rialto market on the eastern bank increased traffic on the floating bridge, so it was replaced in 1255 by a wooden bridge. This structure had two inclined ramps meeting at a movable central section, that could be raised to allow the passage of tall ships.
1 The Rialto Bridge is one of four bridges that cross the Grand Canal in Venice, Italy. 2  The present bridge replaced a previous structure and was built in 1591. 3  The bridge was designed by a Swiss engineer, Antonia de Ponte and its longest span is just over 94 feet long. Here are some facts about the Rialto Bridge. 1  The Rialto Bridge is one of four bridges that cross the Grand Canal in Venice, Italy. 2  The present bridge replaced a previous structure and was built in 1591
The Rialto Bridge is one of the four bridges spanning the Grand Canal in Venice, Italy. It is the oldest bridge across the canal. The present stone bridge, a single span designed by Antonio da Ponte, was completed in 1591 and was used to replace a wooden bridge that collapsed in 1524. 
The bridge is one of the most famous attractions in Florence. Most Famous Bridges In The World: Ponte Vecchio, Florence, Italy. 6. Rialto Bridge, Venice, Italy – The oldest of four bridges spanning the Grand Canal in Venice. It was completed in 1591, replacing a wooden bridge that collapsed in 1524. 
The Rialto Bridge (Ponte di Rialto) on the Grand Canal is one of the most well-known sights in Venice, yet many tourists find themselves upon it by accident. The Rialto is in the San Polo district of Venice, joining it to San Marco. It's a central point both within Venice and along the Grand Canal. The vaporetto stop 'Rialto' is alongside, and the bridge is easily accessible on foot from pretty much anywhere in Venice.