Posts: 24,827. You need to know how much you pay per unit of electricity. This should be on your bill. A unit of electricity is 1 kWh, ie the amount of electricity used by a 1000 watt appliance in one hour. Sop a 48W fan will take 1000/48 hours, or about 20 hours 50 minutes to use one unit. 
Calculating the cost to operate a ceiling fan is a simply a matter of knowing how many watts the fan uses and multiplying that by the cost per kWh of electricity you are being charged by your utility company. This will give you the cost per hour to run the fan. Even the worst energy guzzling ceiling fans on the market will only cost you less than 2 cents per hour to run. These costs are virtually negligable, which explains why ceiling fans are such a great energy saving alternative to air conditioning.
Ceiling fans help cool a room by moving air which causes evaporative cooling. Fans range in size from 36 inches to 56 inches using 55 to 100 watts, a typical 48 inch ceiling fan will use 75 watts. Click calculate to find the energy consumption of a 48 inch ceiling fan using 75 Watts for 3 hours a day @ $0.10 per a kWh. Cost Per Hour: Cost Per Day: 
This translates to about 0.150KW. If you have a light bulb in the fan then that is about another 0.060KW for a total of about 0.210KW for the fan and light. Around my area, power is about 9 cents per KWH. Multiply the usage by the rate to get the total cost. So the cost to run the fan in my area would be ($0.09/KWH * 0.210KW * 1 hour = $0.0189). Source(s): Justin · 6 years ago.
Cost per kilowatt hour will determine how much it costs to run an electric heater. All electric heaters run on the principle of turning electricity into heat. The most common way to do this is to power up a wire coil and then use a small built-in fan to blow the heat out of the heating enclosure. Think of a stove burner that heats up, then imagine a fan blowing that heat around the room. The cost to run an electric heater per day depends solely on your electricity costs per kilowatt hour, which can be found on your electric bill each month.
Truth In Numbers. At the average national electricity cost of 12 cents per kilowatt-hour, a typical window air conditioner running 12 hours per day uses 335 kilowatt-hours per month and costs around $40 monthly to operate. A 2.5-ton common residential central air unit uses around 1,300 kilowatt-hours per month and costs just over $150. Now consider the humble fan. A midsize ceiling fan set on high for 12 hours per day costs just over a penny per hour in electricity or just about $3.50 per month. A higher revolutions-per-minute box fan adds just about $4.40 to your monthly electrical bill. 
As you can see, the calculated cost to operate the fan with lights off is only $0.0029/hr. If you re-calculate it with the lights turned on, the cost increases by about 300% to $0.0091, but is still less than a penny per hour. Even the worst energy guzzling ceiling fans on the market will only cost you less than 2 cents per hour to run. These costs are virtually negligable, which explains why ceiling fans are such a great energy saving alternative to air conditioning.
• A window A/C unit would cost about $50.40 per month. • Each ceiling fan would cost about $1.20 per month. That’s a whopping 99% decrease in cooling costs when you use ceiling fans instead of air conditioners. But you don’t have to choose one or the other. One of the biggest cost savings of ceiling fans is that they can be used with your air conditioner.
So, the most it can cost you to run a ceiling fan without lights is about $126 per year, which is equal to about $10 per month and the least it will cost you is $19 per year, which comes out to just $1 per month...which in either case, is amazingly cheap. Even the worst energy guzzling ceiling fans on the market will only cost you less than 2 cents per hour to run. These costs are virtually negligable, which explains why ceiling fans are such a great energy saving alternative to air conditioning.
The highest wattage consumed by the most energy guzzling ceiling fan on our website is about 120 watts. So if you input 120 as the fan watts and run our calculator, you will see that it still costs less than 2 cents per hour to operate the most energy guzzling ceiling fan in most states. Even the worst energy guzzling ceiling fans on the market will only cost you less than 2 cents per hour to run. These costs are virtually negligable, which explains why ceiling fans are such a great energy saving alternative to air conditioning.