As a point of interest, the Coso Mountains, long known for their hot springs and obsidian, are today a source of geothermal power. Obsidian is evident throughout the Little Petroglyph area, but does not occur naturally there. The primary obsidian source lies in the Coso volcanic field northwest of the canyon. The Coso volcanic field, between Little Petroglyph Canyon and the Sierra Nevada to the west, has been the source of flows of the basaltic lava in which the Coso petroglyphs are carved. Several distinct flows are recognized by geologists.
Introduction. Often, volcanic activity results in the formation of volcanic fields rather than single large volcanic edifices. Volcanic fields comprise small volcanoes (usually with volumes less than 1 km 3), such as cinder cones, maars, tuff cones, tuff rings, small shield volcanoes, and lava domes. 
24 25 How to extract more energy and power from geothermal resources T he Coso geothermal project, located in California’s Coso volcanic field and about 100 miles (161 kilometers) north of Los Angeles, produces 260 megawatts of geothermal energy. The additional power will come from applying technology designed to improve the production of fields like Coso. Known as enhanced geothermal systems (EGS), this technology should more than double the amount of recoverable geothermal energy in the U.S., as well as extend the productive life of existing geothermal fields.
Quick Facts. The Coso volcanic field is located about 160 km (100 mi) northeast of Bakersfield, California, mainly within the boundary of the Naval Air Weapons Station, China Lake. It covers approximately 400 km 2 (roughly 150 mi 2) and is home to one of the largest producers of geothermal power in the U.S., with an output sufficient to supply the needs of 270,000 homes.
The Coso area has ample surface evidence of geothermal energy including fumaroles, hot springs, hydrothermally altered rocks, and Late Cenozoic volcanics (as young as Pleistocene 21,000-41,000 YBP) including thirty-seven rhyolite domes. Figure 4. Complete Bougeur Gravity Map of the Coso Geothermal Area. Exploration activity at the Coso geothermal field continued after the first production well was drilled and focused on better understanding the resource to maintain sustained production.
All the lava flows at Fossil Falls are basaltic. The Coso Volcanic Field brought flows from the north east and later Red Hill, which can be viewed from Fossil Falls, released the younger lava. The flows occurred between 400,000 years ago and 10,000 years ago. During this period, the glacial flows would run through Fossil Falls and smooth the vesicular basalt. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Fossil Falls is a unique geological feature, located in the Coso Range of California in the United States. Volcanic activity in the mountain range, along with meltwater from glaciers in the nearby Sierra Nevada, played a role in the creation of the falls.
The geothermal resource fuels the many hot springs, steam vents, and boiling mud pots near the center of the Coso Volcanic Field. About 40 eruptions in the last quarter million years produced a field of steep-sided lava domes, red hills of volcanic cinder, and rough-surfaced lava flows. It covers approximately 400 km 2 (roughly 150 mi 2) and is home to one of the largest producers of geothermal power in the U.S., with an output sufficient to supply the needs of 270,000 homes.
HAZARDS AND THREATS The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) reports that there are 160 U.S. volcanoes that have erupted in the past 10,000 years. Volcano Information The closest volcanic field areas to Los Angeles County and ouSthern California arethe Lavic and Coso Volcanic Fields. 50,000 years ago. Nearby towns: Mammoth Lakes • Medicine Lake Volcano (Siskiyou and Modoc Counties, California) http://volcanoes.usgs.gov/volcanoes/medicine_lake/ Medicine Lake volcano is situated just east of the Cascade Volcanic Arc axis in northern California’s high desert 35 miles, northeast of Mount Shasta.
Heat Source. Figure 9. Temperatures at depths of 5 m (a) and 10 m (b) from shallow heat flow boreholes in the Coso geothermal area. The heat source for the Coso hydrothermal system is interpreted to be a silicic-magma chamber, possibly still partially molten, at a depth of about 5-8 km. Figure 4. Complete Bougeur Gravity Map of the Coso Geothermal Area. Exploration activity at the Coso geothermal field continued after the first production well was drilled and focused on better understanding the resource to maintain sustained production.