There are two main types of cholesterol that are carried by different types of lipoproteins. Low-density lipoproteins (LDL) are sometimes called “bad” cholesterol. High levels of LDL cholesterol can build up in your arteries, causing heart disease. High-density lipoproteins (HDL) are referred to as “good” cholesterol. HDL cholesterol carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to the liver
Confidence votes 160. The answer to your question, is cholesterol a lipid is YES. The term lipids describes an entire class of fats and fat-like substances in the blood. Cholesterol is a type of lipid. Where blood is watery lipids can be identified by their waxy or oily consistency. Cholesterol is a fat-like substance with a waxy consistency that is produced in the livers of humans and other animals
Another type of cholesterol package is high-density lipoprotein (HDL), often called good cholesterol. HDL helps transport cholesterol from other parts of the body to the liver, which helps remove it from the body, preventing it from piling up in the arteries. Cholesterol is a form of fat that is carried through the body in two kinds of bundles, or lipoproteins. It's important to have healthy levels of both. Low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), or bad cholesterol, can lead to a buildup of cholesterol in the arteries. In general, the lower your LDL, the better.
There are different types of cholesterol. You want to lower the “bad” kind, LDL, and triglycerides, which your body stores in fat cells. On the other hand, you want to raise your “good” (HDL) cholesterol. It helps get rid of the bad kinds. 
Cholesterol travels in the blood in packages called lipoproteins, which consist of lipids (fats) and protein. Cholesterol packaged in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is often called bad cholesterol because too much LDL in the blood can lead to cholesterol buildup and blockage in the arteries. Cholesterol is a form of fat that is carried through the body in two kinds of bundles, or lipoproteins. It's important to have healthy levels of both. Low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), or bad cholesterol, can lead to a buildup of cholesterol in the arteries. In general, the lower your LDL, the better.
Two kinds of lipoproteins carry cholesterol throughout your body: low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and high-density lipoproteins (HDL). Having healthy levels of both types of lipoproteins is important. LDL cholesterol sometimes is called “bad” cholesterol. A high LDL level leads to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. (Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood from your heart to your body.). HDL cholesterol sometimes is called “good” cholesterol. This is because it carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that’s found in all cells of the body. Your body needs some cholesterol to make hormones, vitamin D, and substances that help you digest foods. Your body makes all the cholesterol it needs. However, cholesterol also is found in some of the foods you eat.
There are three basic types of cholesterol in the body: low-density lipoproteins (LDL), high-density lipoproteins (HDL), and very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDL). Because the VLDL level is rarely measured directly, cholesterol tests generally measure total cholesterol, LDL, and HDL cholesterol. Cholesterol is a form of fat that is carried through the body in two kinds of bundles, or lipoproteins. It's important to have healthy levels of both. Low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), or bad cholesterol, can lead to a buildup of cholesterol in the arteries. In general, the lower your LDL, the better.
As with cholesterol, there are also different types of triglycerides. The type to be most concerned about is VLDL3, which is the most inflammatory triglyceride. It’s a prime indicator for the progression of heart disease, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes. Since the size and type of your cholesterol and triglyceride particles, and the presence of Lp(a), are so important in assessing your risk of heart disease, you need to make sure that the cholesterol testing you get does indeed measure these different values.