A name suffix, in the Western English-language naming tradition, follows a person's full name and provides additional information about the person. A generational suffix can be used informally (for disambiguation purposes, or as nicknames) and is often incorporated in legal documents. In the United States the most common name suffixes are senior and junior, which are written with a capital first letter (Jr. and Sr.) with or without an interceding comma.
A domain suffix is the last part of a domain name and is often referred to as a top-level domain or TLD. For example, .com domains are meant for commercial websites, whereas .org domains are to be used by organizations. However, since any entity can register domain names with these suffixes, the domain suffix does not always represent the type of website that uses the domain name.
1 A derivational suffix (such as the addition of-ly to an adjective to form an adverb) indicates what type of word it is. 2  An inflectional suffix (such as the addition of-s to a noun to form a plural) tells something about the word's grammatical behavior. Definition. A suffix is a letter or group of letters added to the end of a word or root (i.e., a base form), serving to form a new word or functioning as an inflectional ending. Adjective: suffixal. There are two primary types of suffixes in English: 1 
In computer system file names, a suffix is a convention for having one or more characters appended to a file name (usually separated from the file name with a dot) so that it can be distinguished from other files or grouped together with similar types of files. A suffix is something added at the end of a word that conditions its usage or meaning.
Suffix (name). A name suffix, in the Western English-language naming tradition, follows a person's full name and provides additional information about the person. Post-nominal letters indicate that the individual holds a position, educational degree, accreditation, office, or honor. Generational suffixes are used to distinguish persons who share the same name within a family. A generational suffix can be used informally (for disambiguation purposes, or as nicknames) and is often incorporated in legal documents.
Domain Suffix. A domain suffix is the last part of a domain name and is often referred to as a top-level domain or TLD. Popular domain suffixes include .com, .net, and .org, but there are dozens of domain suffixes approved by ICANN. For example, .com domains are meant for commercial websites, whereas .org domains are to be used by organizations. However, since any entity can register domain names with these suffixes, the domain suffix does not always represent the type of website that uses the domain name.
Below is a complete list of suffixes defined in Suffix Prefix Dictionary. Click on a suffix to display its definition and etymology, as well as examples of its usage. Please cite this publication as: 
List of English Suffixes. Our suffix word lists are the second part of our comprehensive root word tables : Suffixes are word endings that add a certain meaning to the word. Click on the icon to the left and add the suffix list to your LearnThatWord profile for personalized review. If you don't have an account yet, you can start one in a few seconds. It's free! 