Gaining or losing a few pounds is normal, but a considerable weight change -- say 5% to 10% of your total body weight -- could have an effect on your health. Breast cancer treatments that are associated with weight gain or loss: 1  Ixempra (chemical name: ixabepilone) , a chemotherapy medicine.
Corticosteroids are hormones that can also cause an increase in fatty tissue. They can make you lose muscle mass in your arms and legs, and gain belly fat, too. You may also have a fullness of the neck or face. Loss of muscle makes weight gain more apparent.
Of the 9 causes of Weight change that we have listed, we have the following prevalence/incidence information: 1  0 causes are very common diseases. 2  0 causes are common diseases. 3  1 causes are un
The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Weight change as a symptom. Always advise your doctor of any medications or treatments you are using, including prescription, over-the-counter, supplements, herbal or alternative treatments. 1  Femoden. 2  Oral Contraceptive. 3  Minulet.
The following list of conditions have ' Weight change ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
Weight gain is a common symptom of Cushing's syndrome, a condition in which you are exposed to too much of the stress hormone cortisol, which in turn causes weight gain and other abnormalities.
Weight change: Any change to ones weight. See detailed information below for a list of 9 causes of Weight change, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes.
Your body weight can regularly fluctuate, but the persistent, unintentional loss of more than 5% of your weight over 6 to 12 months is usually a cause for concern. You should pay particular attention if you experience other symptoms, such as tiredness, loss of appetite and a change in your toilet habits.