Barrier islands. A barrier island is a long, thin, sandy stretch of land, oriented parallel to the mainland coast that protects the coast from the full force of powerful storm waves. Between the barrier island and the mainland is a calm, protected water body such as a lagoon or bay. Barrier islands are dynamic systems, constantly on the move, migrating under the influence of changing sea levels, storms, waves, tides, and longshore currents. 
Barrier islands are long, relatively narrow islands that run along a coast parallel to the mainland. They are built up by the action of waves and currents and help protect the coastline from erosion by surf and tidal surges. The amount of sand in a barrier island system changes with time. Normal waves tend to push more sand onto the islands. These low-angle waves bring in sand from out in the shallow off-shore region which accumulates in the intertidal area.
Full Definition of BARRIER ISLAND. : a long broad sandy island lying parallel to a shore that is built up by the action of waves, currents, and winds and that protects the shore from the effects of the ocean. See barrier island defined for English-language learners. See barrier island defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Barrier Island Habitat Zones. Barrier islands are long, narrow, offshore deposits of sand or sediment that run parallel to the coastline. They are separated from the main land by a shallow sound, bay, or lagoon and are often found in chains along the East Coast and Gulf of Mexico.
Barrier islands are islands made of sand or sediment that lay parallel to much of the Atlantic mainland coastline from Maine to Mexico, and the Gulf of Mexico mainland coastline from Florida to Texas. They are also found worldwide with a total of 2,149 barrier islands globally. 
Barrier island contrasted with other coastal landforms. Barrier islands are a coastal landform and a type of dune system that are exceptionally flat or lumpy areas of sand which form by wave and tidal action parallel to the mainland coast. They usually occur in chains, consisting of anything from a few islands to more than a dozen. Chains of barrier islands can be found along approximately thirteen percent of the world's coastlines. They display different settings, suggesting that they can form and be maintained in a variety of environmental settings. Numerous theories have been given to explain their formation.
Barrier islands, sometimes called barrier spits, are found on coastlines all over the world, but are most noticeable along the eastern coast of North America, where they extend from New England down the Atlantic Coast, around the Gulf of Mexico and south to Mexico. Some barrier islands can extend for 100 miles (160 km) or more. The islands are separated from the main land by a shallow sound, bay or lagoon. Barrier islands are often found in chains along the coast line and are separated from each other by narrow tidal inlets, such as the Outer Banks of North Carolina.
Photos courtesy USGS. Barrier islands are long, narrow, offshore deposits of sand or sediments that parallel the coast line. Some barrier islands can extend for 100 miles (160 km) or more. The islands are separated from the main land by a shallow sound, bay or lagoon. Barrier islands are often found in chains along the coast line and are separated from each other by narrow tidal inlets, such as the Outer Banks of North Carolina.
Barrier-island Zones. The structure of a typical barrier island consists of the following zones, from the ocean side toward the sound: 1  Beach-consists of sand deposited by the actions of waves. 2  Dunes-formed from sand carried and deposited by winds. 3  Dunes are stabilized naturally by plants (sea oats, bitter pancum) and artificially by fences. 