Kahane /ka-hane/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Kahane's name origins are Irish and Gaelic, and the name Kahane means battle. Kahane is a variant transcription of Kane (Irish, Gaelic): anglicized variant of Cath n. Compare surname Keohane. Kreatif forms: Kaehane, Kahanoa, Kyhane. Kahane is an unusual given name for men but a very prominent last name for all people (#59916 out of 150436, Top 40%). (2000 U.S. Census). Popular variation forms of Kahane (outside Top 1000) rated in the Top 1000 are Kane (#477 last year) and Cain (#727) .
Click on a place to view Kahana immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Kahana families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Click on a circle in the chart to view Kahana birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kahana. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kahana, spread the love and share this with your friends. Popularity of the Name Kahana. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Kahana is not popular in other countries all over the world.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Kahana immigration records. You can find out when most of the Kahana families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Click on a circle in the chart to view Kahana birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of John Cohen, (marriage to Anne Barlow), which was dated August 28th 1649, in St. Bartholomew the Less, London, during the reign of King Charles 1, known as The Martyr 1625 - 1649. The second possibility is that Cohen is an Anglicized form of two Gaelic Irish surnames-O Cadhain of Connacht, and O Comhdhain of Ulster. The Gaelic prefix O indicates male descendant of, plus the personal bynames Cadhan meaning wild goose and Comhdan, a shared gift.
This name has two distinct possible origins, the first being a Jewish name from the Hewbrew Kohen, a priest. Variations of this are, Kohn, Kahen, Kahn, Kahan and Kahane. The second possibility is that Cohen is an Anglicized form of two Gaelic Irish surnames-O Cadhain of Connacht, and O Comhdhain of Ulster. The Gaelic prefix O indicates male descendant of, plus the personal bynames Cadhan meaning wild goose and Comhdan, a shared gift.
KAHANA Genealogy. This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname KAHANA. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull. Using the Daitch-Mokotoff Soundex Code we can obtain some variants of scripture of the same surname. Below you will find the variants of scripture we have in our database.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kahana and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kahana and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Kahana is fascinating, learn more about it. Popularity of the Name Kahana. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Kahana is not popular in other countries all over the world.