Don't participate in the census, don't work for it, don't fill it out, and feed it false data whenever you can. There is no effective law against doing so; the maximum penalty was $100 (Congress recently raised it to $5000), no jail, and it is VERY rarely enforced. All of the above is from the article. The maximum penalties are from the Census Act itself, I think it's Title 13 of the US Code. You can find it in any law library or government depository library (e.g. your city library or large university library).
The Census is mandated by the Constitution. I don’t see any evidence that anyone has ever been asked about their religion in the Census. Information that is normally used is information about census tracts and cannot be associated with an individual. Some of the commenters seem to have quite a bit of paranoia. The Census (every 10 years) is very short and unobtrusive. The American Community Survey (annual for a much smaller number of households that change from year to year) asks some of the questions given as examples here.
Since the census bureau only filed against one person in 1960 and one in 1970 (and later dropped the charges, according to the mailout from the Committee for Census Privacy), I don't intend to answer non-count questions, either. All of the above is from the article. The maximum penalties are from the Census Act itself, I think it's Title 13 of the US Code. You can find it in any law library or government depository library (e.g. your city library or large university library).
The U.S. Census Bureau does not collect data on beverage consumption; however, information on the topic can be found in the Census Bureau's annual data book, the Statistical Abstract of the United States. Select the edition (year) of your choice, go to the Health and Nutrition section, and then browse the tables. The Census Bureau is still working on tabulating the data for the Urban Areas. The data will be released through the American FactFinder (AFF) in the fall of 2012. At that time, you will be able to use the AFF to determine if your geographic area of interest is urban or rural.
For example, the Census Bureau estimates that in 1970 over six percent of blacks went uncounted, whereas only around two percent of whites went uncounted. Democrats often argue that modern sampling techniques should be used so that more accurate and complete data can be inferred. The United States Census is a population census, which is distinct from the U.S. Census of Agriculture, which is no longer the responsibility of the Census Bureau. It is also distinct from local censuses conducted by some states or local jurisdictions.
Our Mission. The Census Bureau's mission is to serve as the leading source of quality data about the nation's people and economy. We honor privacy, protect confidentiality, share our expertise globally, and conduct our work openly
The U.S. Census Bureau is considering whether to drop some questions that it has used for decades from its largest household survey of Americans. First under review are four of the touchiest topics: Plumbing, commuting, income and disability. The Census (every 10 years) is very short and unobtrusive. The American Community Survey (annual for a much smaller number of households that change from year to year) asks some of the questions given as examples here.
Although there are exceptions, both proponents and opponents of the use of statistical sampling in the census generally agree that there are two independent measures that can be used to validate a particular statistical method known as integrated coverage measurement. The first method involves determining the extent of a census undercount, which can be reasonably estimated by the use of existing demographic data reflecting birth, death, immigration, and emigration records already maintained by governmental agencies.
250,000 homes are now being targeted every month by the Census Bureau and its corporate lackeys to comply, under threat of prosecution, with a survey demanding answers to over 70 privacy invading questions. Questions, that as Congressman Ron Paul and others have pointed out, are none of the government's business. U.S. Census Bureau. The Hard-To-Interview in the American Community Survey. A report from the 2001 Meeting of the American Statistical Association regarding those individuals who actually value their privacy enough to resist providing information to government snoops.