Normal TSH. Sometimes you may experience symptoms of thyroid disease, but a blood test reveals that your TSH is normal. T3 and T4 (both thyroid hormones that are produced by the thyroid gland) also play a role in thyroid disease. Either of these two can be out of range, signifying a thyroid disorder, even if the TSH is normal.
TSH is measured to determine the amount of Thyroid Stimulating Hormone circulating in the blood. sTSH, or sensitive TSH, is a 3rd generation blood test that is more accurate than previous generations of the test. Often the lab results report received by a patient will simply refer to TSH when in fact a sTSH lab test was done. There are also enhanced version of the sTSH assay called high sensitivity TSH (hTSH) or ultra sensitive TSH (uTSH) blood tests. All of these terms are sometimes used interchangeably.
Results. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal
Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone (TSH). Guide. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. TSH is produced when the hypothalamus releases a substance called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). TRH then triggers the pituitary gland to release TSH. TSH causes the thyroid gland to make two hormones: triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4). T3 and T4 help control your body's metabolism. 1 Find the cause of an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism). 2  TSH levels can help determine whether hypothyroidism is due to a damaged thyroid gland or some other cause (such as a problem with the pituitary gland or the hypothalamus).
TSH (Thyroid Stimulating Hormone) is a hormone that is produced by the pituitary gland; it is the job of the TSH to stimulate the thyroid and trigger the production of thyroid hormone. Sometimes you may experience symptoms of thyroid disease, but a blood test reveals that your TSH is normal. T3 and T4 (both thyroid hormones that are produced by the thyroid gland) also play a role in thyroid disease. Either of these two can be out of range, signifying a thyroid disorder, even if the
A TSH test is used to check the level of thyroid-stimulating hormone in the blood. Your TSH level can indicate if your thyroid gland is working properly. TSH is produced by a small gland in the brain called the pituitary, and can be measured by a common blood test. The hypothalamus, located in the brain, produces thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) that tells the pituitary gland to make thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH).
The test measures the amount of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in your blood. TSH is made by the pituitary gland located in your brain. TSH is the pituitary gland’s messenger — it tells the thyroid gland to start making thyroid hormone. There is a feedback system between the pituitary gland and the thyroid gland. 
TSH or thyroid stimulating hormone is a hormone produced in the anterior pituitary gland. This is used to help stimulate the thyroid to produce triiodothyronine (T3) or thyroxine (T4), hormones that help stimulate the metabolism. A TSH test is a lab test that analyzes your blood to determine the body's overall TSH levels. If you begin to show signs of a malfunctioning thyroid your doctor my order a test to check for the TSH levels in your system.