Cause. Growth plate fractures are often caused by a single event, such as a fall or car accident. They can also occur gradually as a result of repetitive stress on the bone, which may occur when a child overtrains in a sports activity. Instead, growth occurs at each end of the bone around the growth plate. When a child is fully grown, the growth plates harden into solid bone. This diagram of a femur (thighbone) shows the location of the growth plates at both ends of the bone.
Each long bone has at least two growth plates-one at each end. This is where the long bones grow. When young people finish growing, the growth plates close and are replaced by solid bone. Growth plate injuries occur mainly at the wrist, bones of the legs, or in the ankle, foot, or hip bones. The growth plate is the weakest part of the growing skeleton. Injuries to the plates are called fractures. Growth plate fractures happen twice as often in boys as in girls.
The epiphyseal plate (or epiphysial plate, physis, or growth plate) is a hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at each end of a long bone. The plate is found in children and adolescents; in adults, who have stopped growing, the plate is replaced by an epiphyseal line. 
The long bones of the body do not grow from the center outward. Instead, growth occurs at each end of the bone around the growth plate. The growth plate is the last portion of the bone to harden (ossify), which leaves it vulnerable to fracture. Because muscles and bones develop at different speeds, a child's bones may be weaker than the surrounding connective tissues (ligaments). Children's bones heal faster than adult's bones
The growth plate, also known as the epiphyseal plate or physis, is the area of growing tissue near the ends of the long bones in children and adolescents. Each long bone has at least two growth plates: one at each end. The growth plate determines the future length and shape of the mature bone. The epiphysis is completely separated from the end of the bone or the metaphysis, through the deep layer of the growth plate. The growth plate remains attached to the epiphysis. The doctor has to put the fracture back into place if it is significantly displaced.
How a growth plate fracture is treated depends on which bone is fractured, and how seriously. It can range from a splint in some cases to surgery in others. With quick diagnosis and the right treatment, the vast majority of growth plate injuries in children heal completely without any long-term problems. 
This is the most common type of growth plate fracture. It runs through the growth plate and the metaphysis, but the epiphysis is not involved in the injury. Like type I fractures, type II fractures may need to be put back into place and immobilized. The epiphysis is completely separated from the end of the bone or the metaphysis, through the deep layer of the growth plate. The growth plate remains attached to the epiphysis. The doctor has to put the fracture back into place if it is significantly displaced.
A newer classification, called the Peterson classification, adds a type VI fracture, in which a portion of the epiphysis, growth plate, and metaphysis is missing. This usually occurs with open wounds or compound fractures, and often involves lawnmowers, farm machinery, snowmobiles, or gunshot wounds. The epiphysis is completely separated from the end of the bone or the metaphysis, through the deep layer of the growth plate. The growth plate remains attached to the epiphysis. The doctor has to put the fracture back into place if it is significantly displaced.
Often, these points are near the ends of the bone. If the growth plate is damaged by a fracture or another injury, the bone may stop growing. If the growth plate is damaged by a fracture or another injury, the bone may stop growing. This serious problem is called a growth arrest. Growth arrest can permanently stop a bone's development and change how it functions. 
Most growth plate fractures occur in the long bones of the fingers. They are also common in the outer bone of the forearm (radius) and lower bones of the leg (the tibia and fibula). Several classification systems have been developed that categorize the different types of growth plate fractures. Instead, growth occurs at each end of the bone around the growth plate. When a child is fully grown, the growth plates harden into solid bone. This diagram of a femur (thighbone) shows the location of the growth plates at both ends of the bone.