System Costs. As mentioned in the introduction, residential solar systems are typically sized from 3 to 8kW and end up costing somewhere between $15,000 and $40,000. In this section, we will look at the costs of the various components of a solar system (not installation or operational costs). Solar Panels. The solar panels themselves usually account for about 30% of total costs. Residential solar panels with a combined capacity of 3-8kW typically cost between $4,000-$16,000. The best solar panels are not necessarily the most expensive.
Free consultation. Schedule a free consultation with one of our knowledgeable consultants to learn about the price of a solar panel system for your home and how much you can save every month on your electricity bills. The initial call will be about 10 minutes. Our residential solar power systems are custom designed for your home. Getting a solar panel system price estimate is easy: you can start with a quick online quote, talk with one of our friendly consultants or request a free consultation and written proposal.
A typical residential solar PV panel system in the U.S. costs $3.60/watt after installation, and the solar panels typically save the customer over $20,000 (net) over the course of 20 years. Learn more about the many advantages of solar energy. 
The bulk of the price of going solar is now the “soft costs” (installation, permitting, etc.) rather than the solar panel cost. Again referencing the latest US Solar Market Insight report, the average installed cost of a residential solar panel system was $4.72/watt. However, prices vary tremendously by region. “Common residential system prices ranged from less than $3.00/W to just above $7.00/W,” the Solar Energy Industries Association writes. The total price of a system, of course, varies tremendously based on the size of your roof and your electricity needs. I got a quote for my 2,000 square foot house in the Dallas area and it was $85,000 installed. Financed over 30 years that comes out to $509/month. My electric bill is about $140/month on average. So over 30 years solar would cost over $100,000 more than electricity from the grid (gas, coal, wind).
The cost of home solar panels depends on the size of the system that you need. As of June 2011, one company offered a medium-sized system capable of generating 480 KWh per month for approximately $9,000 before the state rebates and tax incentives. You also must factor in the cost of labor to determine the cost of residential solar panels. How much the installation of the system will cost depends on the size of the panels and your home. In some cases, installation can double the cost of the system. Call local contractors who are experienced with installing solar panels for an estimate
Once these were factored in, the actual cost of the system was around $6,000 plus the cost of installation. The current federal tax credit is 30 percent of the cost of home solar panels. You will receive that back as a refund on your next year’s taxes. You also must factor in the cost of labor to determine the cost of residential solar panels. How much the installation of the system will cost depends on the size of the panels and your home. In some cases, installation can double the cost of the system. Call local contractors who are experienced with installing solar panels for an estimate
Figuring out exactly how much your solar system will cost can take a little detective work. Electricity rates vary, and each state has different rebates that may affect the overall price of your system. The average system costs a little over $10,000. When we installed solar, the value of our home was increased by more than the cost of the system. We know that electricity prices will continue to climb, but not for us! - Ellen, Wholesale Solar Employee-Owner.
With Wholesale Solar’s current pricing (Jan. 2015), a medium sized gridtie system that generates about 815 kWh a month would cost about $10,500 BEFORE the 30% federal tax credit and rebates offered by your state or utility company. When we installed solar, the value of our home was increased by more than the cost of the system. We know that electricity prices will continue to climb, but not for us! - Ellen, Wholesale Solar Employee-Owner.