A metalloid is a chemical element with properties in between, or that are a mixture of, those of metals and nonmetals. There is no standard definition of a metalloid, nor is there complete agreement as to which elements are appropriately classified as such. Elements less commonly recognised as metalloids include carbon, aluminium, selenium, polonium, and astatine. On a standard periodic table all of these elements may be found in a diagonal region of the p-block, extending from boron at one end, to astatine at the other.
Five metalloids—boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic and antimony—can be found in cell phones (along with at least 39 other metals and nonmetals). Tellurium is expected to find such use. Of the less often recognised metalloids, phosphorus, gallium (in particular) and selenium have semiconductor applications. Elements less commonly recognised as metalloids include carbon, aluminium, selenium, polonium, and astatine. On a standard periodic table all of these elements may be found in a diagonal region of the p-block, extending from boron at one end, to astatine at the other.
Metalloids are the elements which possess intermediate (Physical and chemical) properties to that of metals as well as non metals, hence they are also known as semi metals. Metalloids in the periodic table are placed between the metals and the non metals. There are seven metalloids in total. These seven metalloid are: Boron(B), Silicon(Si), Germanium(Ge), Arsenic(As), Antimony(Sb), Tellurium(Te) and Selenium (Se). Silicon is the second most abundant element in the Earth's crust. 
Recognition status, as metalloids, of some elements in the p-block of the periodic table. Percentages are median appearance frequencies in the list of metalloid lists. The staircase-shaped line is a typical example of the arbitrary metal–nonmetal dividing line found on some periodic tables. Elements less commonly recognised as metalloids include carbon, aluminium, selenium, polonium, and astatine. On a standard periodic table all of these elements may be found in a diagonal region of the p-block, extending from boron at one end, to astatine at the other.
1 Germanium. 2  Arsenic. 3  Antimony. 4  Tellurium. 5  Unlike other families of elements such as the noble gases, alkali metals, and halogens, the metalloids form a diagonal line on the periodic table rather than a vertical line. 1 Silicon. 2  Boron. 3  Germanium. 4  Arsenic. 5  Antimony. 6  Tellurium. 7  Unlike other families of elements such as the noble gases, alkali metals, and halogens, the metalloids form a diagonal line on the periodic table rather than a vertical line.
1 They are mostly nonmetallic in their chemical behavior. 2  Silicon. 3  Boron. 4  Germanium. 5  Arsenic. 6  Antimony. 7  Tellurium. 8  Unlike other families of elements such as the noble gases, alkali metals, and halogens, the metalloids form a diagonal line on the periodic table rather than a vertical line. 1 Silicon. 2  Boron. 3  Germanium. 4  Arsenic. 5  Antimony. 6  Tellurium. 7  Unlike other families of elements such as the noble gases, alkali metals, and halogens, the metalloids form a diagonal line on the periodic table rather than a vertical line.
The elements that are generally considered metalloids include boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium. Other elements such as selenium and polonium are sometimes included as well. 1 Silicon. 2  Boron. 3  Germanium. 4  Arsenic. 5  Antimony. 6  Tellurium. 7  Unlike other families of elements such as the noble gases, alkali metals, and halogens, the metalloids form a diagonal line on the periodic table rather than a vertical line.
Boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium are recognised commonly as metalloids. Depending on the author, one or more from selenium, polonium, or astatine sometimes are added to the list. Boron sometimes is excluded, by itself, or with silicon. Sometimes tellurium is not regarded as a metalloid. Elements less commonly recognised as metalloids include carbon, aluminium, selenium, polonium, and astatine. On a standard periodic table all of these elements may be found in a diagonal region of the p-block, extending from boron at one end, to astatine at the other.
The metalloids are a group of elements in the periodic table. They are located to the right of the post-transition metals and to the left of the non-metals. 1 Silicon. 2  Boron. 3  Germanium. 4  Arsenic. 5  Antimony. 6  Tellurium. 7  Unlike other families of elements such as the noble gases, alkali metals, and halogens, the metalloids form a diagonal line on the periodic table rather than a vertical line.