To set up Yahoo! Mail as your default email client in Windows: 1  Download and install Yahoo! Messenger. 2  Select Tools | Internet Options... 3  from the menu in Internet Explorer. 4  Go to the Programs tab. 5  Make sure Yahoo! 6  Mail is selected under E-mail. 7  Click OK.
Open Control Panel on the Desktop and click Default Programs. Then click “Associate a File Type or Protocol with a Program” link. Next in the Set Associations screen, scroll down the list until you find Protocols, and under that you’ll see MAILTO. It’s set to Mail – double click it.
Now you need to open Windows “Default Programs”, click on the Start menu and from there, click on “Control Panel”. In Control Panel, click on “Programs” Category. On the next page you will see the “Default Programs” option, click on it. You will see different options to set default programs for specific files.
Mail Your Default Windows Email Program. To set up Yahoo! Mail as your default email client in Windows: 1  Download and install Yahoo! Messenger. 2  Select Tools | Internet Options... 3  from the menu in Internet Explorer. 4  Go to the Programs tab. 5  Make sure Yahoo! 6  Mail is selected under E-mail. 7  Click OK.
Select Use Gmail, click OK, and you're done! Internet Explorer: How to Set Gmail as Your Default Email Client 1) Click here to install the Google Toolbar for Internet Explorer. 2) Once installed, click the wrench icon at the top right corner of your Internet Explorer browser to open the Toolbar Options window.
Verify Outlook is set as default mail client. To verify Outlook is indeed set as your default email client: 1  Open Control Panel and search for Default Programs. 2  Select Set Default Programs link. 3  Choose Microsoft Outlook from the list of programs. 4  Click Set this program as default.
Click the “Programs” tab, then click “Set Programs” under Internet Programs. On the Default Programs window that shows up, click “Set Program Access and Computer Defaults.”. Click Custom, then click the radio button next to your preferred email client under the Choose a Default E-mail Program section.
You will have to install one (e.g., MS Outlook; Windows Live Mail; Thunderbird) and then set it as your default for Mail in the CUSTOM () section of Set Program Access and Computer Defaults and then restart your computer before any Send To or MailTo functions will become available.