Bowen’s disease is also known as squamous cell carcinoma in situ, and is a growth of cancerous cells that is confined to the outer layer of the skin. Its importance rests on the fact that it can progress into an invasive skin cancer (squamous cell carcinoma). 
Bowen's disease is caused by the abnormal growth of cells in the outer layer of the skin (epidermis) and is a very early form of squamous cell skin cancer which is easily curable. Bowen's disease is also called squamous cell carcinoma in situ. Bowen's disease. Bowen's disease is an early form of skin cancer causing a red, scaly patch on the skin that may be mistaken for a rash, eczema or psoriasis.
Introduction. Bowen's disease is a very early form of skin cancer, which is easily curable. The main sign is a red, scaly patch on the skin. The abnormal growth takes place in the squamous cells – the outermost layer of skin – and Bowen's disease is sometimes referred to as squamous cell carcinoma in situ. Bowen's disease usually appears as a persistent reddened scaly patch on the skin that is 1-3cm in diameter and which may or may not be itchy.
Call us free* 0808 808 00 00 Monday to Friday, 9am-8pm. Bowen’s disease is a skin condition, sometimes called squamous cell carcinoma in situ. It’s caused by the abnormal growth of cells in the outer layer of the skin. If untreated Bowen’s disease can develop into squamous cell cancer – a common, curable skin cancer. 
Sun exposed areas of the skin are most often affected. Bowen disease only affects the outermost layer of the skin (epidermis). Lesions are usually not painful or may not be associated with any symptoms (asymptomatic). In most cases, treatment is highly successful. Bowen disease is considered a pre-cancerous condition, although the risk of developing skin cancer is less than 10 percent. The disorder usually affects older adults.
Like squamous cell cancer of the skin, Bowen's disease can grow anywhere. It is most common on the trunk, arms or legs. The phrase Bowen's disease is often used for squamous cell carcinoma in situ around the genitals or anus. What Bowen's disease is. Bowen's disease is a very early form of squamous cell skin cancer. It is also called squamous cell carcinoma in situ. Doctors call Bowen's disease pre invasive. That means that there are cancer cells there but they are only in the outermost layer of skin, the epidermis. Sometimes it can spread along the skin surface
0. 0. 1. Bowen's disease is squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) in situ of the skin. It was first described by John Bowen in 1912. Bowen's disease arises in the outer layers of the epidermis and the risk of progression to invasive squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is relatively low. 
Bowen's disease: Intraepiderman form of squamous cell skin cancer cause by sun damage to skin. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Bowen's disease is available below. Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Bowen's disease: 1  Squamous cell cancer in situ. 2  Neoplastic skin disease. 3  Solar damage. 4  Immunosuppression. 5  Human papilloma virus.
Bowen disease was first described in the medical literature by a physician named JT Bowen in 1912. Bowen disease is also known as squamous cell carcinoma in situ, and is generally considered an early, noninvasive form of intraepidermal squamous cell carcinoma. Lesions are usually not painful or may not be associated with any symptoms (asymptomatic). In most cases, treatment is highly successful. Bowen disease is considered a pre-cancerous condition, although the risk of developing skin cancer is less than 10 percent. The disorder usually affects older adults.