Habitat. Though their ancestors lived in North America, modern sloths live in Central and South America, enjoying the tall trees found in rain and cloud forests. Sloths prefer sleeping while curled into a ball in the fork of a tropical tree. They also like to sleep hanging by their claws from tree branches. The tough leaves in a sloth's diet are difficult to digest. Sloths have a four-part stomach that slowly digests the leaves with bacteria. It can take up to a month for a sloth to digest one meal. Their leafy diet isn't very nutritious though, so they don't get much energy from it.
In a nutshell, sloths are slow-moving, nocturnal creatures. They live in trees in the tropical and cloud forests of Central and South America. Their curved, sharp claws are 3 to 4 inches (8 to 10 centimeters) long. These claws are handy for hanging onto tree branches but make walking on the ground awkward. 
The three-toed sloths are tree-living mammals from South and Central America. They are the only members of the genus Bradypus and the family Bradypodidae. The four living species of three-toed sloths are the brown-throated sloth, the maned sloth, the pale-throated sloth, and the pygmy three-toed sloth. 
This article is about the South American mammal. For other uses, see Sloth (disambiguation) . Sloths (/ˈsloʊθ/ SLOHTH, /ˈslɒθ/ SLOTH) are medium-sized mammals belonging to the families Megalonychidae (two-toed sloth) and Bradypodidae (three-toed sloth), classified into six species. Because of the algae, sloth fur is a small ecosystem of its own, hosting many species of non-parasitic insects. Sloths have short, flat heads, big eyes; short snouts, long legs, and tiny ears. Some species have stubby tails (6–7 cm long). Altogether, sloths' bodies usually are between 50 and 60 cm long.
The sloth is a medium-sized mammal, having at least six living  species, and they live in the trees in the rainforests of Central  and South America. Sloths are omnivores - … meaning that they eat  both meat and plants. Sloths live in rainforests and secondary forests in Central and South America from Nicaragua through Venezuela, Brazil to Peru, Columbia, and in the Amazon Basin.
Habitat: The three-toed sloth is an arboreal animal, inhabiting the tropical forests of Central and South America. Their algae-covered fur helps camouflage the sloth in its forest environment. Sloths spend nearly all of their time in trees, descending to the ground only once a week to defecate. 
The Three-Toed Sloth lives in South and Central America. They mainly live in the trees but they are going to be seen on land from time to time. They also are found near bodies of water so that they can swim. However, the majority of the life is spent in the trees. Introduction to Three-Toed Sloth. The Three-Toed Sloth is a mammal and there are four species that have been identified. They are very slow moving animals but they are more aggressive and able to protect themselves. They are very good swimmers and move faster in the water than they do in the trees or on land.
Here you will find out some of the rarely known facts about Bengal tigers habitat and where do Bengal tigers live. Bengal tigers are known to survive in much reduced and fragmented range a century ago. These tigers survive in Bhutan, India, China, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Nepal. 
Sloths are extremely slow-moving mammals found in the rainforest canopies of Central and South America. There are two species of sloths:two-toed and three-toed. Most sloths are about the size of a small dog and they have short, flat flat heads. Their hair is grayish brown but, at times they look grey-green in color because they move so slowly that tiny camouflaging algae grow all over their coats. Sloths are nocturnal and sleep curled up with their head placed between the arms and the feet drawn close together. This disguises them as part of a tree so that its enemies like the jaguar do not see them. Sloths rarely climb down from the trees and can live for up to 30 years.
Baby sloths have a gestation of five to six months for some types sloths and as much as 11.5 months for others, such as the Hoffman's two-toed sloth. After they are born, the babies aren't in a hurry to leave their mother. They ride around clinging to their mother's belly for several weeks after birth. The tough leaves in a sloth's diet are difficult to digest. Sloths have a four-part stomach that slowly digests the leaves with bacteria. It can take up to a month for a sloth to digest one meal. Their leafy diet isn't very nutritious though, so they don't get much energy from it.