1 Many of these drugs were first used to treat other medical conditions – such as malaria, transplant rejection, cancer, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease – but have now also found a role in treating rheumatoid arthritis. 2  DMARDs are used both alone and in combination. In the past, many doctors did not believe that drugs for rheumatoid arthritis changed the likelihood of eventual disability from the disease. Therefore, drugs with the least side effects were prescribed to decrease pain. Stronger drugs were avoided because of doctors' concerns about dangerous side effects.
The goals of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treatment are to: 1  Stop inflammation (put disease in remission). 2  Relieve symptoms. 3  Prevent joint and organ damage. Corticosteroid medications, including prednisone, prednisolone and methyprednisolone, are potent and quick-acting anti-inflammatory medications. They may be used in RA to get potentially damaging inflammation under control, while waiting for NSAIDs and DMARDs (below) to take effect.
Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Doctors use these medications when NSAIDs alone fail to relieve symptoms of joint pain and swelling. They may be taken in combination with NSAIDs and are used to slow the progress of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Commonly used DMARDs for children include methotrexate (Trexall) and leflunomide (Arava).
The drugs used to treat rheumatoid arthritis can be divided into three groups: 1  Drugs that decrease pain and inflammation. 2  These products include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), such as ibuprofen (Motrin®), naproxen (Aleve®), and other similar products. In the past, many doctors did not believe that drugs for rheumatoid arthritis changed the likelihood of eventual disability from the disease. Therefore, drugs with the least side effects were prescribed to decrease pain. Stronger drugs were avoided because of doctors' concerns about dangerous side effects.
back to top. There are a number of medications available that can be used to help stop rheumatoid arthritis getting worse and reduce your risk of further problems. These are often divided into two types of medication: 'disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs)' and 'biological treatments'. 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration yesterday approved a new oral medication for rheumatoid arthritis, or RA. Tofacitinib, brand name Xeljanz (ZEL'jans) , is for patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis who do not respond well to methotrexate, a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug, or DMARD. 
However, they may take up to six months to be fully effective. DMARDs have greatly improved the quality of life for many people with rheumatoid arthritis. These RA drugs are often used along with NSAIDs or glucocorticoids; however, with this type of medication, you may not need other anti-inflammatories or analgesics. These are the main types of RA medications: 1  Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 2  Biologic response modifiers (a type of DMARD). 3  Glucocorticoids. 4  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs). 5  Analgesics (painkillers).
Typical medications used for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis include: 1  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 2  These medications, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve), reduce pain and swelling. 3  Stronger NSAIDs are available by prescription. Doctors use these medications when NSAIDs alone fail to relieve symptoms of joint pain and swelling. They may be taken in combination with NSAIDs and are used to slow the progress of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Commonly used DMARDs for children include methotrexate (Trexall) and leflunomide (Arava).
The advent of a new class of drugs known as biologics has revolutionized the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). These drugs, which include Cimzia, Enbrel, Humira, Kineret, Orencia, Remicade, Rituxan, and Simponi, must be given via self-injection or intravenous infusion in the doctor’s office or hospital. They also can be expensive and are not always covered by insurance.
There are different drugs used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Some are used primarily to ease the symptoms of RA; others are used to slow or stop the course of the disease and to inhibit structural damage. Corticosteroid medications, including prednisone, prednisolone and methyprednisolone, are potent and quick-acting anti-inflammatory medications. They may be used in RA to get potentially damaging inflammation under control, while waiting for NSAIDs and DMARDs (below) to take effect.