Former pro skateboarder Keith Hufnagel started HUF as a small boutique store in San Francisco, in 2002. In the years since, HUF has grown into a prominent streetwear brand, designing original, skate culture-inspired tees, hoodies, outerwear, and more. HUF: Skate apparel with a refined edge. As the lead deasigner at HUF, Keith Hufnagel has gained a reputation for striking a balance between classic craftsmanship, vintage design, and modern detail.
0. 0. Blank You Very Much recently caught up with HUF founder Keith Hufnagel for an interesting interview. Hufnagel talks about the brand's history, collaborations with the likes of Stussy and Shwood, how New York City and San Francisco have influenced HUF, and his favorite HUF piece of all time. He even touches on what he'll be looking for while judging the HUF x BYVM Design a Huf Tee & Logo Contest
- HUF bags and accessories: HUF is truly a lifestyle brand, as it also manufactures a fresh collection of luggage and accessories. In addition, HUF makes everything from socks and underwear to an annual calendar. Shop now for tees, jackets, sweaters, socks, accessories and more from HUF, Altamont, and DGK. HUF: Skate apparel with a refined edge. As the lead deasigner at HUF, Keith Hufnagel has gained a reputation for striking a balance between classic craftsmanship, vintage design, and modern detail.
HUF is dedicated to using the highest quality fabrics in order to create functional and durable gear that can withstand an active lifestyle. HUF designs aren't typically full of loud graphics; instead, their products have a sophisticated, laid-back feel. Shop online now for tees, bags, jackets, and more by HUF. HUF: Skate apparel with a refined edge. As the lead deasigner at HUF, Keith Hufnagel has gained a reputation for striking a balance between classic craftsmanship, vintage design, and modern detail.
Huf Haus is a German company based in Hartenfels in the Westerwald region that manufactures prefabricated houses. Huf Haus is the world's leading company in selling houses in the Bauhaus tradition based on the German Fachwerk (Frame House). The so-called Huf Fachwerkhaus 2000 was designed in 1972 together with the architect Manfred Adams. The principles of this construction are still the standard in all Huf houses. Since 1996, grandsons Georg and Thomas Huf have led the company and brought the products to the world market.
In those days, skateboarding was simply not accepted: it was punk rock, it was hip-hop, it was a counterculture of outcasts misunderstood by the masses. It was a way of life that would ultimately shape Hufnagel's outlook on life. In 1992, Hufnagel moved to San Francisco to pursue his passion of skateboarding. Though much has changed over the course of the brand, Hufnagel still holds strong to the same core beliefs that drove him since day one. He sees skateboarding as more than just another 'hobby,' and something far from simply a 'sport;' he sees it as a way of life, a skateboard-lifestyle.
Based in the Bay Area, HUF aims to capture the personality unique to the skateboard lifestyle. HUF believes skateboard culture is in essence a positive force that transcends petty prejudices based on race and social structure, and instead seeks to celebrate a diverse population of creative individuals. HUF products strike the right balance between vintage design, classic craftsmanship, and modern detail, leaving no doubt as to why skateboarders and individuals influenced by counterculture continue coming back for more. Check out HUF socks, snapbacks and more and get into it!
Visit Karmaloop to find the finest products from HUF, such as: - HUF tees: HUF offers a diverse collection, with everything from basic logo tees with contrast lettering to graphic tees with intricately-designed multicolor images. In addition, HUF makes baseball-style tees, with contrast raglan sleeves. HUF: Skate apparel with a refined edge. As the lead deasigner at HUF, Keith Hufnagel has gained a reputation for striking a balance between classic craftsmanship, vintage design, and modern detail.
HUF. Since professional skater Keith Hufnagel founded it as a small boutique in 2002, HUF has grown from a single retail location selling other manufacturers' products into a go-to brand for fans of skate culture-influenced shoes, hats, tees, winterwear, and accessories. HUF products strike the right balance between vintage design, classic craftsmanship, and modern detail, leaving no doubt as to why skateboarders and individuals influenced by counterculture continue coming back for more. Check out HUF socks, snapbacks and more and get into it!