Here is a few screen from the Aeon Nox Mario Skin by xEdiTz. You can follow his updates on his Twitter account. The images below may change before the final release but you get a good idea of what the skin will look like. Update October 12th Updated to version 1.0.1 Project Cypher TV is an add-on that offers live TV & sport as well as adult content. Looks a really nice add-on so hope it lasts. It is available via the Operation Robocop Ultimate Repo so.
Competition: Win an Amiko A3. For more details follow this link Updated to 2.5.9 This update includes the return of Woody's section under Phoenix TV Follow the guide below to install the fantastic Phoenix add-on. One of the best add-ons for Kodi. Update October 12th Updated to version 1.0.1 Project Cypher TV is an add-on that offers live TV & sport as well as adult content. Looks a really nice add-on so hope it lasts. It is available via the Operation Robocop Ultimate Repo so.
Stream All the Sources is now installed and as usual the add-on can be accessed via from your home screen. To setup Trakt with this add-on go into the add-on settings and authorise the add-on to access your Trakt account. Check out my other Kodi posts; you'll find plenty to improve your Kodi experience. Between Now & Jan 6th 2016 there is an offer for 15% off any VPN deal using the promo code PREMIER2015 from IPVanish. Here is a guide for installing the Stream all the Sources (S.A.L.T.S) add-on to your Kodi device. 1  Download the tknorris repo file and save to a location you can easily access from your Kodi device. 2  Open Kodi. 3  Select SYSTEM. 4  Select Add-Ons. 5  Select Install from zip file
For more details follow this link UPDATE Oct 14th Genesis has been updated to 5.1.2 Change Log: Fixed issue with progress dialogs Tweaked playback actions Fixed issue with Onlinemovies source Fixed issue with Primewire source Fixed issue with. UPDATE Oct 14th Updated to 2.0 Dexter TV will require you to sign in. Update October 12th Updated to version 1.0.1 Project Cypher TV is an add-on that offers live TV & sport as well as adult content. Looks a really nice add-on so hope it lasts. It is available via the Operation Robocop Ultimate Repo so.
Install the newly updated & improved SALTS add-on xbmc or kodi. Great addon for movies and tv shows. Download link: https://github.com/tknorris/salts. 1  Howto & Style
Here’s how to connect your XBMC box to them all. The method to add all these sources to your XBMC installation is largely the same, with the exception of one screen. Let’s start with the music… click into the “Music” item on the XBMC Home menu. 1 MythTV Client: Selecting this option will allow XBMC to access the media on a MythTV Server. 2  Web Directory (HTTP/S): Lastly, if you have a web server somewhere with media on it (perhaps your website’s photo gallery), you can access it over HTTP if the permissions are correct.
So pick the “WebDAV Server (HTTPS)” option, and add the address, path within your Box account where the media is, username, and password for your Box account. Add a name, then click “OK” to connect the share to XBMC. Once the share is connected, you’ll now see it in the list with the other defaults. Clicking on an entry will add it to whichever player (Pictures, Music, or Videos) you’re currently in. 1 MythTV Client: Selecting this option will allow XBMC to access the media on a MythTV Server. 2  Web Directory (HTTP/S): Lastly, if you have a web server somewhere with media on it (perhaps your website’s photo gallery), you can access it over HTTP if the permissions are correct.