Most data centers operate in a temperature range between 68 and 72 degrees Fahrenheit, and some are as cold as 55 degrees. Raising the baseline temperature inside the data center – known as a set point – can save money by reducing the amount of energy used for air conditioning. It’s been estimated that data center managers can save 4 percent in energy costs for every degree of upward change in the set point. In live settings, companies are seeing that improved monitoring and airflow management can allow data center managers to be more aggressive with higher temperatures. In some cases, raising the temperature can allow companies to operate facilities that make minimal use of chillers – or don’t use them at all.
The biggest players in the data center industry are raising the thermostats in their data centers, with some saving hundreds of thousands of dollars in energy costs in the process. The latest company to focus attention on temperature in the data center is Google. “The guidance we give to data center operators is to raise the thermostat,” said Erik Teetzel, an Energy Program Manager at Google. “Many data centers operate at 70 degrees or below. We’d recommend looking at going to 80 degrees.”. Most data centers operate in a temperature range between 68 and 72 degrees, and some are as cold as 55 degrees. Raising the baseline temperature inside the data center – known as a set point – can save money spent on air conditioning
Data Center Operating Temperature: The Sweet Spot ii THIS WHITE PAPER IS FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY, AND MAY CONTAIN TYPOGRAPHICAL ERRORS AND TECHNICAL INACCURACIES. THE CONTENT IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. © 2011 Dell Inc. All rights reserved. 
The difficulty with attempting to maintain a relative humidity in the data center is that RH is dependent on temperature: it is a measure of the percentage of water vapor content that air can hold at a given temperature. 
1 The server failure rate during this experiment was only marginally higher than Intel’s enterprise facility. 2  Data centers can operate with a temperature in the 80s and still be ASHRAE compliant. 3  The upper limit of their recommended temperature range increased to 80.6 deg F (up from 77 deg F). Arguments against: 1  It goes without saying that as the server inlet temperature increases, so does the hot aisle temperature. 2  Not all data center environments have high user volume. 3  The definition of data center is more fluid than ever.
This interactive mapping interface displays data for each of the 344 climate divisions in the U.S. Climate Divisional Database. View maps of monthly or yearly values, ranks, or anomalies for temperature, precipitation, heating and cooling degree days, and drought indices. 
Arguments for: 1  It’s estimated that data centers can save 4-5% in energy costs for every one (1) degree increase in server inlet temperature. 2  A higher temperature setting can mean more hours of “free-cooling” possible through air-side or water side economizers. Arguments against: 1  It goes without saying that as the server inlet temperature increases, so does the hot aisle temperature. 2  Not all data center environments have high user volume. 3  The definition of data center is more fluid than ever.
Arguments for: 1  Inlet air and exhaust air frequently mix in a data center. Temperatures are kept low to offset this mixing and to keep the server inlet temperature within ASHRAE’s recommended range. 2  Raising the temperature could exacerbate already-existing hotspots. Arguments against: 1  It goes without saying that as the server inlet temperature increases, so does the hot aisle temperature. 2  Not all data center environments have high user volume. 3  The definition of data center is more fluid than ever.
NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Information (NCEI) is responsible for preserving, monitoring, assessing, and providing public access to the Nation's treasure of climate and historical weather data and information. I want to search for data at a particular location. We’re announcing the release of the State of the Climate in 2014 report, an assessment of the world’s climate system.
Air conditioning is used to control the temperature and humidity in the data center. ASHRAE 's Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments recommends a temperature range of 18–27 °C (64–81 °F), a dew point range of 5–15 °C (41–59 °F), and a maximum relative humidity of 60% for data center environments. A data center is a facility used to house computer systems and associated components, such as telecommunications and storage systems.