Underwriters -- with whom underwriting assistants work -- earned average salaries of $75,160 per year working for local government agencies in 2012, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics -- versus $69,740 at insurance companies. An Underwriting assistant may also earn more working for local government. In 2013, average salaries for underwriting assistants varied significantly within certain U.S. regions. In the Northeast, they earned the highest salaries, of $53,000, in Massachusetts and lowest, of $40,000, in Maine, according to Simply Hired.
Underwriter assistants work for a variety of employers including insurance companies, brokerage firms and businesses. They tend to work full-time hours in an office environment. However, they may work overtime, especially to assist underwriters with analyzing a large number of insurance applications. Underwriter assistants must be comfortable using computer software programs to determine whether to approve or deny an applicant for insurance coverage. They need analytical skills to solve complex problems and evaluate clients' information.
Many underwriter assistants get their feet wet through training programs offered through companies and insurance associations, such as the Insurance Institute of America. They learn common insurance applications and various risk factors. Underwriter assistants must be comfortable using computer software programs to determine whether to approve or deny an applicant for insurance coverage. They need analytical skills to solve complex problems and evaluate clients' information.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. An underwriting assistant processes paperwork, performs clerical duties, and assists business individuals or teams responsible for preparing documents. An underwriting assistant usually reports to an underwriter, but supervisory titles can vary from industry to industry. Depending upon the size of the organization in which he works, an assistant may be responsible for duties ranging from customer service to clerical tasks to document control.
Underwriting Assistants sometimes assume positions such as Senior Underwriters. That role pays $72K per year on average. The most common next step for an Underwriting Assistant is to become an Underwriter or an Insurance Underwriter. The former position pays an additional $10K per year on average, and the latter position pays $8K more per year. (United States). Underwriting Assistants in the United States can expect only a modest salary, with average pay of just $40K per year.
Underwriting assistants process paperwork, perform clerical duties, and assist individuals or teams with preparing documents. Handling the printing and organizing of paperwork is one of the duties of a underwriting assistant. Much of the work that an underwriting assistant does can be completed on a computer. Underwriter assistants may view a person's accident history to determine if they should qualify for an auto insurance policy. An underwriting assistant usually reports to an underwriter, but supervisory titles can vary from industry to industry. Depending upon the size of the organization in which he works, an assistant may be responsible for duties ranging from customer service to clerical tasks to document control.
Underwriter assistants provide support to underwriters and independent agents. They may answer questions concerning a policy status or billing error on behalf of an underwriter or agent. Under the guidance of underwriters and supervisors, they may analyze applications and screen applicants based on certain criteria. Underwriter assistants must be comfortable using computer software programs to determine whether to approve or deny an applicant for insurance coverage. They need analytical skills to solve complex problems and evaluate clients' information.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Underwriting Assistant may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Underwriting Assistant in the United States is $45,525, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Underwriting Assistant in the United States are expected to make less than $45,525. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits.
Underwriting assistants earned average annual salaries of $44,000 as of 2013, according to the job website Simply Hired. Many companies prefer hiring underwriting assistants with bachelor's degrees in business, insurance or economics, and at least one year of experience in property, casualty or health insurance. In 2013, average salaries for underwriting assistants varied significantly within certain U.S. regions. In the Northeast, they earned the highest salaries, of $53,000, in Massachusetts and lowest, of $40,000, in Maine, according to