Systemic lupus erythematosus lupus (SLE) —A disease that can cause inflammation of the connective tissue in every organ of the body, from the brain, skin, blood, to the lungs. It is nine times more common in women than men. Collagen is a protein found in the tendons, ligaments, skin, cornea, cartilage, bone, and blood vessels. Elastin is a stretchy protein that resembles a rubber band and is the major component of ligaments and skin. When a patient has a connective tissue disease, the collagen and elastin are inflamed.
Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is a rare autoimmune disorder. An autoimmune disorder is one in which the immune system mistakenly views the body’s own tissues as “invaders” and attacks them. Mixed connective tissue disease has features of three other connective tissue diseases: 1  Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) – An inflammatory disease that can affect many different organs. 2  Symptoms include fever, fatigue, joint pains, weakness, and skin rashes on the face, neck, and upper body
Definition. Mixed connective tissue disease has signs and symptoms of a combination of disorders — primarily lupus, scleroderma and polymyositis. For this reason, mixed connective tissue disease is sometimes referred to as an overlap disease. In mixed connective tissue disease, the symptoms of the separate diseases usually don't appear all at once. Instead, they tend to occur in sequence over a number of years, which can make diagnosis more complicated. Early signs and symptoms often involve the hands.
(August 2012) Although lupus usually occurs alone, many people with lupus sometimes have symptoms characteristic of one or more of the other connective tissue diseases, like rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma, Sjogren's syndrome, polymyositis-dermatomyositis, and various forms of vasculitis. 
In patients with connective tissue disease, it is common for collagen and elastin to become injured by inflammation. Many connective tissue diseases feature abnormal immune system activity with inflammation in tissues as a result of an immune system that is directed against one's own body tissues (autoimmunity). Diseases in which inflammation or weakness of collagen tends to occur are also referred to as collagen diseases.
Whereas lupus is a connective tissue disease, mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is-by definition-a combination or overlap of several other connective tissue diseases. 
Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is an auto-immune disease that was first recognised in 1972 and is considered to be a cousin of lupus. We now understand that there can be an overlap in many auto-immune diseases that may involve any number of different variants of connective tissue diseases. MCTD is the commonest seen combination, and symptoms of MCTD usually either appear as a lupus or a scleroderma variant. Some people have a polymyositis variant so have problems with muscle inflammation as well. Often with time, MCTD may evolve into one of the conditions of lupus, scleroderma or polymyositis.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), like Sjoegren’sjögren s, syndrome is a type of autoimmune connective tissue disorder that may have both genetic and environmental. Causes connective tissue disorders are chronic inflammatory autoimmune disorders affecting the connective. tissues Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE or lupus), is a systemic autoimmune disease (or autoimmune-connective tissue disease) that can affect any part of the body. As occurs in other autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the body's cells and tissue, resulting in inflammation and tissue damage.
A connective tissue disease is any disease that affects the parts of the body that connect the structures of the body together. Connective tissues are made up of two proteins: collagen and elastin. Collagen is a protein found in the tendons, ligaments, skin, cornea, cartilage, bone, and blood vessels. Elastin is a stretchy protein that resembles a rubber band and is the major component of ligaments and skin. When a patient has a connective tissue disease, the collagen and elastin are inflamed.