The Qin Mountains (simplified Chinese: 秦岭; traditional Chinese: 秦嶺; pinyin: qin qín; Lǐng–Wade: Giles'ch In2), ling3 sometimes called The Szechuan, alps are a major-east west mountain range in Southern Shaanxi, Province. china The mountains provide a natural boundary between the North and South of the country, and support a huge variety of plant and wildlife, some of which is found nowhere else on Earth. To the north is the densely populated Wei River valley, an ancient center of Chinese civilization.
The Qinling mountains, home of the Giant Panda lies between the Yangtze and the Yellow Rivers in Shaanxi Province, China. 
Located in Shaanxi Province, the Qinling mountains form a natural barrier between northern and southern China, protecting the south from the cold northern weather. And the warm rains on the southern slopes support a rich variety of plants and animals. 
Qinling Mountains. mountain Add category. Qinling Mountains extending about 1,500 kilometers across central China from from Gansu-Qinghai border in the west ti central henan in the east, form a natural dividing line between China's sub-tropical and warm-temperate zones. The mountains are home to the Qinling Pandas, a sub-species of the Giant Panda, which are protected in the region with the help of the Changqing and Foping nature reserves. Wikipedia article: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qinling_Mountains. Nearby cities: Xi'an, Shiyan, Lanzhou City.
Welcome to Xian Qinling Wildlife Park. Located at the food of northern Qinling Mountain, 28 kilometers away from Xian City, the Qinling Wildlife Park is the biggest wildlife park in Northwest China, with a total area of over 133 hectares. In the park, there are more than 10,000 rare wild animals from over 300 species
The Qinling Mountains are a major mountain range located mainly in the Eastern province of Shaanxi, in China. Timber harvesting reached a peak in the 18th century in the Qinling Mountains. They are home to the Qinling Pandas, a sub-species of the Giant Panda, which are protected in the region with the help of the Changqing and Foping nature reserves.
The Qinling Mountains are the water divide between the Yellow River and the Yangtze River. Located in the transitional region from the subtropical zone to the warm temperate zone of central China, they are generally considered as the physical geographical dividing line between South China and North China. The mountains in Shaanxi Province is the backbone of the Qinling Mountains, with an altitude of 1500–3000 m. In this area, the vegetation displays a vertical zonation with increasing altitude (Fig. 1) (Fang and Gao, 1963, Zhu, 1991 and Lei, 2011). The vertical vegetation zones in Fig.
Qinling Shandi is a mountain in Shaanxi, China, situated between Goupadong and Yueheping, and is also nearby to Miaoliang. 
Qinling Mountains. The Qinling Mountains are a major mountain range located mainly in the Eastern province of Shaanxi, in China. The mountains provide a natural boundary between the North and South of the country, and support a huge variety of plant and wildlife, some of which is found nowhere else on Earth. Timber harvesting reached a peak in the 18th century in the Qinling Mountains. They are home to the Qinling Pandas, a sub-species of the Giant Panda, which are protected in the region with the help of the Changqing and Foping nature reserves.
What we are looking for, is the unusual animals that live there. ~Marsha~. QINLING MOUNTAINS. The Qinling Mountains are a major mountain range located mainly in the. Eastern province of Shaanxi, in China. The mountains provide a natural boundary. between the North and South of the country, and support a huge. variety of plant and wildlife, some of which is found nowhere else on Earth. 