1 The thymus gland is the main organ of the lymphatic system. 2  Its primary function is to promote the development of specific cells of the immune system called T-lymphocytes. 3  Once mature, these cells leave the thymus and are transported via blood vessels to the lymph nodes and spleen. The lymphatic system plays a vital role in the proper functioning of the body. One of the major roles of this organ system is to drain excess fluid surrounding tissues and organs and return it to the blood. Returning lymph to the blood helps to maintain normal blood volume and pressure.
The lymphatic system consists of lymphatic organs, a conducting network of lymphatic vessels, and the circulating lymph. The thymus and the bone marrow constitute the primary lymphoid organs involved in the production and early clonal selection of lymphocyte tissues. Lymphocytes are concentrated in the lymph nodes. The spleen and the thymus are also lymphoid organs of the immune system. The tonsils are lymphoid organs that are also associated with the digestive system. Lymphoid tissues contain lymphocytes, and also contain other types of cells for support
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. 
Understanding the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system consists of organs, ducts, and nodes. It transports a watery clear fluid called lymph. This fluid distributes immune cells and other factors throughout the body. It also interacts with the blood circulatory system to drain fluid from cells and tissues. The major parts of the system are the bone marrow, spleen, thymus gland, lymph nodes, and the tonsils. Other organs, including the heart, lungs, intestines, liver, and skin also contain lymphatic tissue. gorhams.dk Lymphoma Is a disease in which malignant lymphocytes grow too fast or live too long.
The lymphatic system includes a system of lymphatic capillaries, vessels, nodes, and ducts that collects and transports lymph, which is a clear to slightly yellowish fluid, similar to the plasma in blood. The lymphatic system is important for maintaining your body’s fluid balance, and it helps transport some fats. The lymphoid organs assist the lymphatic system. They include the thymus, spleen, tonsils, and appendix, along with some special tissue in the gut: The thymus: The thymus is located in the thoracic cavity, just under the neck.
The lymphatic system. The diagram shows the lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the other organs that make up the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is similar to the blood circulation. The lymph vessels branch through all parts of the body like the arteries and veins that carry blood.
The lymphatic system is composed of lymph vessels, lymph nodes, and organs. The functions of this system include the absorbtion of excess fluid and its return to the blood stream, absorption of fat (in the villi of the small intestine) and the immune system function. Lymph organs include the bone marrow, lymph nodes, spleen, and thymus. Bone marrow contains tissue that produces lymphocytes. B-lymphocytes (B-cells) mature in the bone marrow. T-lymphocytes (T-cells) mature in the thymus gland.
1 Thymus. 2  The thymus gland is the main organ of the lymphatic system. 3  Its primary function is to promote the development of specific cells of the immune system called T-lymphocytes. 4  Once mature, these cells leave the thymus and are transported via blood vessels to the lymph nodes and spleen. The lymphatic system plays a vital role in the proper functioning of the body. One of the major roles of this organ system is to drain excess fluid surrounding tissues and organs and return it to the blood. Returning lymph to the blood helps to maintain normal blood volume and pressure.