1 When the natural pacemaker is defective, the heartbeat may be too fast, too slow or irregular. 2  Rhythm problems also can occur because of a blockage of your heart's electrical pathways. 3  The artificial pacemaker's pulse generator sends electrical impulses to the heart to help it pump properly.
1 The sinoatrial (SA) node or sinus node is the heart's natural pacemaker. 2  It's a small mass of specialized cells in the top of the right atrium (upper chamber of the heart). 3  It produces the electrical impulses that cause your heart to beat.
1 A pacemaker can help regulate your heartbeat after the procedure. 2  You need to take certain heart medicines, such as beta blockers. 3  These medicines can slow your heartbeat too much. 4  You faint or have other symptoms of a slow heartbeat.
This article deals with the complications of pacemakers, including pacemaker syndrome. Pacemakers are discussed further in the separate articles Pacemakers and Pacing, Inserting Temporary Pacemakers, and Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators.
1 Your heartbeat is sometimes normal and sometimes too fast or too slow. 2  The sinoatrial (SA) node or sinus node is the heart's natural pacemaker. 3  It's a small mass of specialized cells in the top of the right atrium (upper chamber of the heart). 4  It produces the electrical impulses that cause your heart to beat.
1 Pacing systems consist of a pulse generator and pacing leads. 2  Pacemaker output generally stimulates the cavity of the right atrium and/or right ventricle (endocardial pacing). 3  Alternatively, epicardial leads can be implanted surgically on to the heart's surface.
1 Rhythm problems also can occur because of a blockage of your heart's electrical pathways. 2  The artificial pacemaker's pulse generator sends electrical impulses to the heart to help it pump properly. 3  An electrode is placed next to the heart wall and small electrical charges travel through the wire to the heart.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: No, the body cannot reject a pacemaker. Initially after implantation of one, there is a natural body response of inflammation to the foreign body (the pacemaker), but that goes away as the area heals. Source(s): was a pacemaker nurse for 13 years.