Cementite. Cementite, also known as iron carbide, is a chemical compound of iron and carbon, with the formula Fe3C. By weight, it is 6.67% carbon and 93.3% iron. It has an orthorhombic crystal structure. It is a hard, brittle material, normally classified as a ceramic in its pure form, though it is more important in metallurgy
Noun. 1. cementite-a chemical compound that is a constituent of steel and cast iron; very hard and brittle. iron carbide. chemical compound, compound - (chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight. cementite. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) the hard brittle compound of iron and carbon that forms in carbon steels and some cast irons.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Cementite is a compound that is made of iron and carbon, and is sometimes referred to as iron carbide. Because it is a hard compound, it is often used to mix with steel and harden the steel. 
• CEMENTITE (noun). The noun CEMENTITE has 1 sense: 1. the iron carbide constituent of steel and cast iron; very hard and brittle. Familiarity information: CEMENTITE used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. Holonyms (cementite is a substance of...): pearlite (a lamellar mixture of cementite and ferrite formed during the cooling of austenite; a constituent of steel and cast iron).
Pearlite occurs at the eutectoid of the iron-carbon phase diagram (near the lower left). Pearlite is a two-phased, lamellar (or layered) structure composed of alternating layers of ferrite (88 wt%) and cementite (12 wt%) that occurs in some steels and cast irons.
Cementite is iron carbide with the formula Fe 3 C, and an orthorhombic crystal structure. It is a hard, brittle material, essentially a ceramic in its pure form. It forms directly from the melt in the case of white cast iron. Cementite contains 6.67% Carbon by weight; thus above that carbon content in the Fe-C phase system, the alloy is no longer steel or cast iron, as all of the available iron is contained in cementite. Cementite mixes with ferrite, the other product of austenite, to form lamellar structures called pearlite and bainite.
Definition of CEMENTITE. : a hard brittle iron carbide Fe3C that occurs in steel, cast iron, and iron-carbon alloys. ADVERTISEMENT. 1cement
Cementite is a chemical compound whose inclusion hardens steel. Each molecule is made of three iron atoms bonded to one carbon atom (Fe 3 C) to form a crystal lattice structure called orthorhombic, where multiple rectangular prisms arise from the same base structure and intersect at 90 degree angles. The result is a very hard and brittle substance called iron carbide, or cementite. In its purest form, cementite is classified as a non-oxide ceramic. It is solid and inert, and can withstand crushing force, chemical erosion, abrasion, and temperatures up to 3000 degrees F (1600 C).
Cementite, also known as iron carbide, is a chemical compound of iron and carbon, with the formula Fe 3 C (or Fe 2 C:Fe). In the iron–carbon system (i.e. plain-carbon steels and cast irons) it is a common constituent because ferrite can contain at most 0.02wt% of uncombined carbon. Therefore, in carbon steels and cast irons that are slowly cooled a portion of the element is in the form of cementite.