Definition of 'Brand Personality' A set of human characteristics that are attributed to a brand name. A brand personality is something to which the consumer can relate, and an … effective brand will increase its brand equity by having a consistent set of traits. This is the added-value that a brand gains, aside from its functional benefits. A personality brand includes the brand Marlboro which is a masculine brand. An example of a feminine brand might include Virginia Slims cigarettes. These brands are marketed toward a specific personality.
Brand personality is used to make the brand strategy lively, i.e, to implement brand strategy. Brand personality indicates the kind of relationship a customer has with the brand. It is a means by which a customer communicates his own identity. Brand personality and celebrity should supplement each other. Trustworthy celebrity ensures immediate awareness, acceptability and optimism towards the brand. Brand personality is the result of all the consumers experiences with the brand. It is unique and long lasting. Brand personality develops brand equity. It sets the brand attitude.
Brand personality not only includes the personality features/characteristics, but also the demographic features like age, gender or class and psychographic features. Personality traits are what the brand exists for. Brand personality is the result of all the consumers experiences with the brand. It is unique and long lasting. Brand personality develops brand equity. It sets the brand attitude.
The Brand Personality. Brand Personality is – A set of human characteristics that are attributed to a brand name. A brand personality is something to which the consumer can relate, and an effective brand will increase its brand equity by having a consistent set of traits. This is the added-value that a brand gains, aside from its functional benefits. Brand personality associations create a composite image of a brand that is not very different from the image that we have of other people: they make us think of a brand as if it were a person. Just as a person will have certain characteristics that define his or her personality, so will a brand.
The idea of a brand personality applies to companies big and small and to anyone with a web presence. This means you – the designer, the freelancer, the developer – are a brand of your own if you have a website or even participate in public social media channels. Brand personality is a set of emotional and associative characteristics connected to a company or brand name. These things shape how people feel about and interact with a company. Often a brand’s personality mirrors that of the target customer base
A set of human characteristics that are attributed to a brand name. A brand personality is something to which the consumer can relate, and an effective brand will increase its brand equity by having a consistent set of traits. This is the added-value that a brand gains, aside from its functional benefits. Customers are more likely to purchase a brand if its personality is similar to their own. Examples of traits for the different types of brand personalities: Excitement: carefree, spirited, youthful
It is better to think of a brand’s personality image as encompassing all the associations that a consumer has for that brand: all the thoughts, feelings, and imagery that are mentally linked to that brand in the consumer’s memory. Brand personality associations create a composite image of a brand that is not very different from the image that we have of other people: they make us think of a brand as if it were a person. Just as a person will have certain characteristics that define his or her personality, so will a brand.
A brand is expressed either as a personality who embodies these personality traits (For instance-Shahrukh Khan and Airtel, John Abraham and Castrol) or distinct personality traits (For instance-Dove as honest, feminist and optimist; Hewlett Packard brand represents accomplishment, competency and influence). Brand personality is the result of all the consumers experiences with the brand. It is unique and long lasting. Brand personality develops brand equity. It sets the brand attitude.