Coordinating Systems: The Receptors and Effectors Receptor cells and organs The cells and organs that receive internal and external stimuli are called receptors. These receptors vary in complexity from single cells to complex organs. 
Examples of effectors are as follows: (1) allosteric effectors, (2) bacterial effectors, and (3) fungal effectors (e.g. apoplastic effectors and cytoplasmic effectors). In other biological contexts, the term effector is used to describe an organ, a gland, or a muscle that responds to a nerve impulse. Supplement. In biochemistry, an effector is that molecule that binds to a specific protein, and regulates the latter's biological activity. An effector molecule acts as a ligand that is capable of increasing or decreasing the activity of that protein.
An effector is a small molecule that binds to a macromolecule. In biology, in a signalling pathway, if protein A switches on protein B, and if protein B then switches on/activates/recruits proteins C, D and E, then proteins C, D and E are effectors of protein B.
Once translocated into the plant cytoplasm, effectors can traffic to different subcellular compartments, including organelles and various membrane compartments. A large number of effectors accumulate in the plant nucleus (see also Caillaud et al. 2012, this volume). Effector helpers and targets are host proteins that are usurped or manipulated by the invading organism to enable the effectors to function and establish a state of effector-triggered host susceptibility. Hence, collectively they are both host susceptibility factors.
Effector molecules can also directly regulate the activity of some mRNA molecules (riboswitches). In some cases, proteins can be considered to function as effector molecules, especially in cellular signal transduction cascades. The term effector is used in other fields of biology. For instance, the effector end of a neuron is the terminus where an axon makes contact with the muscle or organ that it stimulates or suppresses. Fungal effectors are secreted by pathogenic fungi into and around host cells by invasive hyphae to disable defense components and facilitate colonization. Protein secretion systems in fungi involve the Spitzenkoerper. spitzenkörper
Bacterial effectors are injected by bacterial cells, usually pathogens, into the cells of their host. The injection is mediated by specialized secretion systems, e.g. the type III secretion system (TTSS or T3SS). Fungal effectors are secreted by pathogenic fungi into and around host cells by invasive hyphae to disable defense components and facilitate colonization. Protein secretion systems in fungi involve the Spitzenkoerper. spitzenkörper
Microbes and other plant-associated organisms secrete effectors to different sites in the host plant. Several pathogens, including fungi and oomycetes, colonize plant intercellular spaces and secrete effectors that target defenses in the plant apoplast (Fig. 1 A). Effector helpers and targets are host proteins that are usurped or manipulated by the invading organism to enable the effectors to function and establish a state of effector-triggered host susceptibility. Hence, collectively they are both host susceptibility factors.
Effectors: Key to understanding pathogenicity Overview Plant pathogenic bacteria, oomycetes, fungi, and nematodes secrete an arsenal of effector proteins that modulate plant innate immunity and enable parasitic infection. Groovy times: filamentous pathogen effectors revealed. Current Opinion in Plant Biology, 10:358-365. Supplementary Material. iTunes iMix companion playlist. Haldar, K., Kamoun, S., Hiller, L. N., Bhattacharjee, S., and and van Ooij, C. 2006.
Effector. Definition. noun, plural: effectors. (biochemistry) A molecule that binds to a protein and affects the function of that protein. (physiology) An organ, a gland, or a muscle that can respond and becomes active in response to a stimulus (e.g. nerve impulse). Supplement. In biochemistry, an effector is that molecule that binds to a specific protein, and regulates the latter's biological activity. An effector molecule acts as a ligand that is capable of increasing or decreasing the activity of that protein.