How Food and Labor Costs are Calculated. Food and labor costs are calculated as a percentage of the total volume of sales. If a restaurant does $20,000 per week and the total cost of food and beverages is $7,000 for that week, then the food cost is considered 35 percent. If, at the same restaurant, labor (including payroll taxes and benefits) equal $5,000 for the week, then the labor cost is 25 percent. Total prime costs are 60 percent in this example. Related Reading: How to Control Cost of Food & Labor in a Restaurant Service.
Median income before taxes for fullservice restaurants was 4.1 percent of total sales in operations where the average check is under $15; 5 percent for restaurants with an average check of $15 to $24.99; and 4.5 percent for fullservice operations with average checks of $25 and over. The median total sales per full-time-equivalent employee ranged from $53,448 (in fullservice restaurants with an average check per person under $15) to $60,606 (average check $15 to $24.99) to $65,413 (average check $25 and over).
Total payroll cost should not exceed 30% to 35% of total sales for full-service operations, and 25% to 30% of sales for limited-service restaurants. Generally, you don’t want management salaries to exceed 10% of sales in either a full-or limited-service restaurant. This would consist of all salaried personnel. 
Full-Service Restaurants. Full-service restaurants at all levels spent about 32 percent of each dollar on the cost of food and beverages, 33 percent on salaries and wages, and from 5 percent to 6 percent on restaurant occupancy costs. Profit margins, however, varied according to the cost of the average check per person. Those with checks under $15 showed a profit of 3 percent. Those with checks from $15 to $24.99 boasted the highest profit margin at 3.5 percent. Finally, those with checks of $25 and over had the lowest profits, at 1.8 percent
In that situation, you will likely need to plan on higher than average cost percentages compared to restaurants. A place like Old Chicago (high volume pizza restaurant with 70% food sales mix) will average around a 22% liquor cost, 35% wine cost, 24% draft beer cost and 25% bottled beer cost. Every store is different. I have one client that runs a 40% total alcoholic beverage cost and turns a solid profit. There's some restaurants that have to run maintain a total cost around 28% or lower to make money. Every operation is different. A cost percentaget is only helpful for budgeting purposes.
Alcoholic beverage costs: Liquor, beer and wine costs will vary among restaurants due to a number of factors but here are typical costs in percentages 1  : Liquor – 18 percent to 20 percent. 
Analyzing Prime Costs. As you can see on the restaurant industry average, food and beverage costs coupled with labor costs consume the most (56% to 77%) of total sales. The combined total of these two cost categories, referred to as your restaurant’s Prime Cost, are where the battle for restaurant profitability is truly waged. After you have determined total food costs and sales, you can determine if your food cost is in line with industry averages. Successful restaurants typically generate food costs in the 26 to 36 percent range of food sales.
In order to calculate food and beverage cost for a restaurant, you  need to figure out your ingredient cost and labor cost. Then you  divide the menu price by this amount an … d come up with a percentage.  That percentage is your food and beverage cost. 
Food costs (including beverages) for the restaurant industry run typically from the 25 percent to 38 percent range, depending upon the style of restaurant and the mix of sales. If, at the same restaurant, labor (including payroll taxes and benefits) equal $5,000 for the week, then the labor cost is 25 percent. Total prime costs are 60 percent in this example. Related Reading: How to Control Cost of Food & Labor in a Restaurant Service.