The effect is illustrated by the simulated titration of a weak acid with pK a = 4.7. The relative concentration of undissociated acid is shown in blue and of its conjugate base in red. The pH changes relatively slowly in the buffer region, pH = pK a ± 1, centered at pH = 4.7 where [HA] = [A − ]. Buffer capacity for a 0.1 M solution of an acid with pK a of 7. Buffer capacity, β, is a quantitative measure of the resistance of a buffer solution to pH change on addition of hydroxide ions. It can be defined as follows.
Properties [edit]. A buffer solution usually contains a weak acid and its conjugate base, but it can also contain a weak base and its conjugate acid. When H + are added to a buffer, the weak acid's conjugate base will become protonated, thereby absorbing the H + before the pH of the solution lowers significantly. The midpoint of the buffering region is when one half of the acid reacts to dissociation and where the concentration of the proton donor (acid) equals that of the proton acceptor (base); the pH of the equimolar solution of acid is equal to the pKa.
A buffer zone is generally a zonal area that lies between two or more other areas (often, but not necessarily, countries), but depending on the type of buffer zone, the reason for it may be to segregate regions or to conjoin them. 
For an individual weak acid or weak base component, see Buffering agent. For uses not related to acid-base chemistry, see Buffer (disambiguation). A buffer solution (more precisely, pH buffer or hydrogen ion buffer) is an aqueous solution consisting of a mixture of a weak acid and its conjugate base, or vice versa. Buffer capacity for a 0.1 M solution of an acid with pK a of 7. Buffer capacity, β, is a quantitative measure of the resistance of a buffer solution to pH change on addition of hydroxide ions. It can be defined as follows.
I believe the buffer region is that point before vertical line and that massive change in ph. The buffer region i think is the horizonal line before the vertical line because even though acid or alkali is being added, there isnt much change in ph as its being buffered so the ph remains constant.. I think thats right maybe someone else could shed some light on this. Aeon Prince.
and you do biochem at qut =p i dont know what a buffer region is. pka just like pH tells you what how acid or basic the properties of a substance is. Report Abuse. i was just googling this and i'm guessing you do biochem at qut as well. i can't find what buffer region means but i am guessing that it probably means the pH range in which the buffer is most useful but i'm not sure. Also i agree with the other person that the pKa tells you if the solution is acidic or basic. ie pKa larger than 7 is weak base and more than 10 is strong base
buffer zone. 1. A defined area controlled by a peace operations force from which disputing or belligerent forces have been excluded. A buffer zone is formed to create an area of separation between disputing or belligerent forces and reduce the risk of renewed conflict. Also called area of separation in some United Nations operations. Also called BZ. See also area of separation; line of demarcation; peace operations. 2.
buffer zone. (1) A transitional area between two areas of different zoning or characteristic land use. (2) Green space or other open or natural areas providing privacy and noise pollution control for a subdivision. In political science, an area between two antagonists that is put in place so they do not attack each other. A famous example of a buffer zone is the demilitarized zone separating North and South Korea. Occasionally, the buffer zone is a third country.