The British defeated him at Trafalgar in 1805, but Napoleon went on to invade countries across Europe before being forced to abdicate. He returned to Paris in March 1815, prompting Britain, Prussia, Russia and Austria to declare war. In June, Napoleon invaded Belgium, hoping to capture Brussels. He sent troops to fight Wellington, and led a battalion against General Blucher's Prussian troops. Wellington's army wasn't defeated but Blucher retreated
Waterloo was the decisive engagement of the Waterloo Campaign and Napoleon's last. According to Wellington, the battle was the nearest-run thing you ever saw in your life. The defeat at Waterloo ended Napoleon's rule as Emperor of the French, and marked the end of his Hundred Days return from exile. Napoleon abdicated 4 days later, and on the 7 July coalition forces entered Paris. 
a final crushing defeat, Napoleon's final battle and he lost; the English and the Persians defeated him., the battle on 18 June 1815 in which Napoleon met his final defeat, to suffer an ultimate, decisive defeat- In 1815, the Battle of Waterloo was fought near the village of Waterloo, which is now in Belgium. 
And then, as most people remember about Napoleon, he suffered his final defeat at Waterloo, in present-day Belgium, on June 18, 1815. For some strange reason, Napoleon is admired by many who would be quick to denounce Hitler, Stalin, Pol Pot, Tito, and Mao Tse-Tung as dictators. The alliance of Great Britain, Sweden, Russia, Prussia, and Austria (the Sixth Coalition [1812—1814]) against Napoleon led to the occupation of Paris at the end of March of 1814. This was followed by Napoleon’s abdication on April 6 in favor of his son.
Napoleon's final defeat came at Waterloo in 1815 in what is now Belgium. Napoleon had originally been defeated the Battle of Nations at Leipzig in 1813. 
A+E Networks. At Waterloo in Belgium, Napoleon Bonaparte suffers defeat at the hands of the Duke of Wellington, bringing an end to the Napoleonic era of European history. The Corsica-born Napoleon, one of the greatest military strategists in history, rapidly rose in the ranks of the French Revolutionary Army during the late 1790s. Beginning in 1812, Napoleon began to encounter the first significant defeats of his military career, suffering through a disastrous invasion of Russia, losing Spain to the Duke of Wellington in the Peninsula War, and enduring total defeat against an allied force by 1814.
Napoleon, in a sense, was defeated twice. First, he was defeated in  Spain, then later in Russia. Napoleon had troops that died in the  winter because if they had turned bac … k they would not have time.    His final defeat was at Waterloo in Belgium in 1815. 3 people found this useful. Duke of Wellington (England) He was defeated by Wellington, But Wellington would have lost had the Prussians under Blucher not joined the battle, Napoleon needed to keep the … 2 opponents apart & defeat them seperately. Marshal Grouchy gets the blame: Had the French won, however, Napoleon would have taken the credit.
As Napoleon I, he was Emperor of the French from 1804 until 1814, and again in 1815. Napoleon dominated European affairs for over a decade while leading France against a series of coalitions in the Napoleonic Wars. 
After the final defeat of Napoleon, the Quadruple Alliance, the victorious allies (Russia, Prussia, Austria and Great Britain) together with a number of smaller governments agreed to meet to settle issues that had arisen as a result France s aggressive policies under Napoleon. The agreement was almost upset by the escape of Napoleon from Elba; however after his final defeat at Waterloo, it was agreed that Louis XVIII should return as King of France, France must pay an indemnity of 700 million francs, and support an army of occupation of five years.