It includes the spiritual experience. Transpersonal Counselling can be distinguished from many other forms of counselling by its attendance to the spiritual dimension of life. It could be said that most models of psychology focus on either the abnormal or the normal functioning of the human being. The Transpersonal Counsellor is someone who has been trained in guiding others to access specific states for the purposes of healing. The counselling tools and techniques used are sourced from modern psychology, traditional spiritual practices and of course the practitioner’s own experience in life.
Transpersonal psychology is a sub-field or school of psychology that integrates the spiritual and transcendent aspects of the human experience with the framework of modern psychology. It is also possible to define it as a spiritual psychology. The transpersonal is defined as experiences in which the sense of identity or self extends beyond (trans) the individual or personal to encompass wider aspects of humankind, life, psyche or cosmos. Although transpersonal psychology is relatively new as a formal discipline, beginning with the publication of The Journal of Transpersonal Psychology in 1969 and the founding of the Association for Transpersonal Psychology in 1971, it draws upon ancient mystical knowledge that comes from multiple traditions.
Transpersonal counselling is about meaning and purpose in life i.e. life direction, life path and relates more to self realization than adjustment, and is concerned with fundamental factors such as personal power, identity, intimacy, wisdom, dharma and love. 
Transpersonal counseling is a relatively new field of counseling that incorporates the realm of spirit in the process of helping people realize their full potential. Transpersonal literally means beyond the personal, indicating that both our human experience and a greater framework beyond it are included. 
Transpersonal counseling Pop psychology Any philosophy on development of mystical, spiritual, and psychic experiences, that is the springboard for maximizing the human potential; TP therapies are intended to remove a person's 'mask,' which may prevent a person from achieving a maximum potential. 
Tweet. Print Print. Transpersonal counselling is a term used in conjunction with a variety of counselling techniques or modalities that have developed out of the transpersonal psychology movement. Transpersonal psychology explores states of consciousness outside of the limits of our personal identity, or ego. Some of the techniques used by transpersonal counsellors include these: These are just a few of the many techniques a transpersonal counsellor may employ. In essence transpersonal counselling is a genuinely holistic practice concerned with the body, the mind and the spirit. If this type of therapy resonates with you, it may be just what you need at this stage of your journey
Transpersonal psychology (also known as transpersonal counselling) is a humanistic approach to therapy that was developed by American psychologist, Abraham Maslow in the 1960s. 
Whilst Transpersonal Counselling includes and attends to the spiritual domain, this is not exclusive of the other elements of human experience. It is a holistic approach which values the entire person. The Transpersonal Counsellor is someone who has been trained in guiding others to access specific states for the purposes of healing. The counselling tools and techniques used are sourced from modern psychology, traditional spiritual practices and of course the practitioner’s own experience in life.