exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Carlos Santiago. It is an abbreviation for tablespoon, a type of measure as tsp means teaspoon. Also used in cooking recipes as in 3 tbsp of olive oil. 
Definitions: 1. A large spoon, used as a measure of the dose of a medicine, equivalent to about 4 fluidrams or 1/2 fluidounce or 15 mL. The definition information for tablespoon is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Jo-bar. Confidence votes 11.9K. Tsp is the abbreviation for teaspoon and tbsp is the abbreviation for tablespoon. Sometimes capital T is used for Tablespoon and lower case t is used for teaspoon. Small and large 1 tablespoon = 3 teaspoons 1 teaspoon = 0.33 tablespoon. + 3 others found this useful. Felicia Fisher. Edit. Share to: 1  Almond Flour Pancakes Recipes Breakfast is the most important meal of the day. 2  This is as true for those enjoying a low-carb diet as it is for everyone else.
A tablespoon is a large spoon used for eating or serving. In most English-speaking countries, it is a large spoon used for serving, while in parts of Canada it is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl. By extension, the term is used as a measure of volume in cooking. The unit of measurement varies by region: a United States tablespoon is approximately 14.7 mL, a United Kingdom tablespoon is exactly 15 mL, and an Australian tablespoon is 20 mL.
Temperature abbreviations are used in all types of writing. Other abbreviations of measurements are limited to lists, charts, technical writing, and informal writing. In standard formal English, they are spelled out. If you spell out the number, spell out the unit of measurement. There is no need to add an s to an abbreviation to show a plural. This is sometimes done in advertising (3 lbs. for a dollar), but it is not necessary. English Unit Abbreviations Abbreviation Unit of Measurement bbl. barrel cu
In these regions, one tablespoon is approximately 15 mL, which is about 1⁄2 US fl oz. In some places like the US, the tablespoon was historically defined as 1⁄2 US fl oz (2 tbsp. = 1 US fl oz). In Australia a tablespoon is defined as four teaspoons (20 mL). Victorian and Edwardian tablespoons used in the UK are often 25 mL or sometimes larger. They are used only for preparing and serving food, not as part of a place-setting. The unit of measurement varies by region: a United States tablespoon is approximately 14.7 mL, a United Kingdom tablespoon is exactly 15 mL, and an Australian tablespoon is 20 mL.
This list does not include abbreviations for pharmaceuticals or drug name suffixes such as CD, CR, ER, XT (See Time release technology § List of abbreviations for those). Capitalization and the use of periods is a matter of style. In the list, Latin is not capitalized whereas English acronyms are. 
tablespoon (Tbs, tbsp), a household spoon that may be used to measure a dose of liquid medicine, equivalent to about 4 fluid drams or ½ fluid ounce or 15 mL. (1) A spoon that holds ±15 ml. 
Tweet. : a spoon that is used by cooks for measuring dry and liquid ingredients and that holds an amount equal to 1/2 fluid ounce or three teaspoons. : the amount that a tablespoon will hold. : a fairly large spoon that is used for serving or eating food. Full Definition of TABLESPOON. 1. : a large spoon used especially for serving. 2. : a unit of measure used especially in cookery equal to 1⁄2 fluid ounce (15 milliliters). See tablespoon defined for English-language learners. See tablespoon defined for kids.