Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Fact Sheet. Genital human papillomavirus (or HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted disease (STD, commonly known as sexually transmitted infection, STI). Some types of genital HPV primarily infect skin near the genitals and anus. Many people with genital HPV infection have no visible symptoms, and are never diagnosed as having either HPV or a related disease. In most cases, a person's immune system will clear HPV naturally within 24 months. Some types of sexually transmitted HPV cause genital or anal wart
Non-cancer causing types of HPV (especially types 6 and 11) can cause genital warts and respiratory papillomatosis (a disease in which tumours grow in the air passages leading from the nose and mouth into the lungs). Although these conditions very rarely result in death, they may cause significant occurrence of disease. There are many types of HPV, and many do not cause problems. HPV infections usually clear up without any intervention within a few months after acquisition, and about 90% clear within 2 years. A small proportion of infections with certain types of HPV can persist and progress to cancer.
HPV is the most common sexually transmitted infection (STI). HPV is a different virus than HIV and HSV (herpes). HPV is so common that nearly all sexually active men and women get it at some point in their lives. There are many different types of HPV. In most cases, HPV goes away on its own and does not cause any health problems. But when HPV does not go away, it can cause health problems like genital warts and cancer. Genital warts usually appear as a small bump or group of bumps in the genital area.
There are more than 100 different strains, or types, of HPV. About 40 specifically affect the genital area, including the vagina, vulva, penis, anus, cervix, rectum and scrotum. Genital forms of the disease are sexually transmitted. HPV is probably best known for causing warts, including genital warts. Most warts are harmless, but they can cause irritation and embarrassment. Skin-to-skin contact with warts can spread the HPV virus to others. A few strains of HPV have the ability to cause cancer. These are known as high-risk strains. HPV infection is responsible for about 5 percent of all cancers.
Cervical cancer is by far the most common HPV-related disease. Nearly all cases of cervical cancer can be attributable to HPV infection. Though data on anogenital cancers other than cancer of the cervix are limited, there is an increasing body of evidence linking HPV with cancers of the anus, vulva, vagina, and penis. There are many types of HPV, and many do not cause problems. HPV infections usually clear up without any intervention within a few months after acquisition, and about 90% clear within 2 years. A small proportion of infections with certain types of HPV can persist and progress to cancer.
Female Reproductive System Disease: Cervical Cancer 0 5. Cervical cancer starts in the cervix, the lower part of the uterus that connects the womb to the vagina. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) reports worldwide, cervical cancer is the third most common type of cancer in women.
HPV can cause cervical and other cancers including cancer of the vulva, vagina, penis, or anus. It can also cause cancer in the back of the throat, including the base of the tongue and tonsils (called oropharyngeal cancer). If you are pregnant and have HPV, you can get genital warts or develop abnormal cell changes on your cervix. Abnormal cell changes can be found with routine cervical cancer screening. You should get routine cervical cancer screening even when you are pregnant.
HPV is a different virus than HIV and HSV (herpes). HPV is so common that nearly all sexually active men and women get it at some point in their lives. There are many different types of HPV. Some types can cause health problems including genital warts and cancers. But there are vaccines that can stop these health problems from happening. If you are pregnant and have HPV, you can get genital warts or develop abnormal cell changes on your cervix. Abnormal cell changes can be found with routine cervical cancer screening. You should get routine cervical cancer screening even when you are pregnant.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most common viral infection of the reproductive tract. Most sexually active women and men will be infected at some point in their lives and some may be repeatedly infected. The peak time for acquiring infection for both women and men is shortly after becoming sexually active. There are many types of HPV, and many do not cause problems. HPV infections usually clear up without any intervention within a few months after acquisition, and about 90% clear within 2 years. A small proportion of infections with certain types of HPV can persist and progress to cancer.