Store ground venison (aka, Bambi burgers) in a freezer at 0 F or colder for no more than 3-5 months. Venison roasts and steaks can be stored up to 6-12 months at this temperature. Meat quality and flavor will deteriorate in the freezer over time. Proper dressing, handling, packaging, quick freezing, and colder freezer temperatures will help maintain meat quality for the longest period of time.
I have some Deer meat in the freezer for 2yrs, it is a non-frost free unit (no defrost cycle) it doesn't seem to be freezer burned. I hate to waste it ... however before i started this way and being a long time vac packer i hhave seen venison up to 2 years old, usually it got lost in freezer and slipped thru. but if no freezer burn and it looks good. venison keeps as well as any meat in the freezer and vac packing a plus esp if you got a good machine.
And with the use of a zip-seal bag and a permanent marker, you can avoid wasting your good food. Before you put meat in the freezer, you should always write the date on it -- that way you don't have to question how long it's been frozen. And, believe it or not, some meats can last in the freezer for up to one year. 1  Cooked poultry -- 4 months. 2  Uncooked poultry parts -- 9 months. 3  Uncooked whole poultry -- 12 months. 4  Cooked meat -- 2 to 3 months. 
We have a vacuum sealer, and we've keep venison in the freezer forover a year without freezer burn. If you use freezer wrap it doesn't seem to keep as long. So it really depends on what you are using for wrap. pmlllnd · 8 years ago. nine or ten months tops. saying that i have a brother who has deer meat and sausage stored in his freezer that is not quite a year old. i will be going over there next week to throw it out. p.s. make sure you date everything.
1 Thaw frozen venison slowly and completely in the refrigerator at or below 40 degrees F. 2  Allow 24 hours of thawing in the refrigerator for every 5 pounds of meat. 3  Refrigerator-thawed venison should be cooked within 1 to 2 days. Thawing Frozen Venison. 1  Don't thaw venison meat (or any meat for that matter) at room temperature as this increases chance for bacterial growth. 2  Thaw frozen venison slowly and completely in the refrigerator at or below 40 degrees F. 3  Allow 24 hours of thawing in the refrigerator for every 5 pounds of meat.
Store ground venison in a freezer at 0°F or colder for 3 months for best quality. Venison roasts and steaks can be stored 6 to 9 months at this temperature. Meat quality and flavor will deteriorate in the freezer over time. Proper dressing, handling, packaging, quick freezing, and colder freezer temperatures will help maintain meat quality for the longest period of time.
You can send me any venison you may have that is older than 2 months and I will properly dispose of it. ;). Seriously though, I have kept venison vacuum sealed and frozen for up to 3 years. I've had butcher paper wrapped burger last over a year. If it is freezer burned or in otherwise poor shape, eat it. 
1 Don't thaw venison meat (or any meat for that matter) at room temperature as this increases chance for bacterial growth. 2  Thaw frozen venison slowly and completely in the refrigerator at or below 40 degrees F. 3  Allow 24 hours of thawing in the refrigerator for every 5 pounds of meat. Thawing Frozen Venison. 1  Don't thaw venison meat (or any meat for that matter) at room temperature as this increases chance for bacterial growth. 2  Thaw frozen venison slowly and completely in the refrigerator at or below 40 degrees F. 3  Allow 24 hours of thawing in the refrigerator for every 5 pounds of meat.
Best Answer: deer meat is like any other meat stored in the freezer. nine or ten months tops. saying that i have a brother who has deer meat and sausage stored in his freezer that is not quite a year old. i will be going over there next week to throw it out. p.s. make sure you date everything.