Cayenne pepper nutritional value per tbsp (5 grams). DV = Daily Value. Cayenne pepper is a hot chili pepper, frequently used in the preparation of spicy dishes that has been associated with a wide range of health benefits. The chili originated in Central and South America. It is named after the capital city of the French Guiana, Cayenne. Cayenne chili peppers are closely related to jalapeno jalapeño chili-peppers belonging to the same Genus capsicum and coming from a similar cultivar Of capsicum. annuum
Cultivation [edit]. Most cultivated varieties of cayenne, Capsicum annuum, can be grown in a variety of locations and need around 100 days to mature. Peppers prefer warm, moist, nutrient-rich soil in a warm climate. The plants grow to about 0.5–1 m (20–39 in) in height and should be spaced 1 m (3 ft) apart. Cayenne is used in cooking spicy dishes, as a powder or in its whole form (such as in Korean, Sichuan, and other Asian cuisine), or in a thin, vinegar-based sauce. It is generally rated at 30,000 to 50,000 Scoville units.
Cayenne is a powder prepared from the seeds and pods of various types of chiles. It is often used not only in cooking, but also as a table condiment. Cayenne may reduce bad … blood cholesterol and improve circulation. Also believed to speed metabolism. Both red peppers and cayenne peppers are in the same family, but cayenne pepper is much … more spicy than just red pepper.
The cayenne pepper, also known as the Guinea spice, cow-horn pepper, red hot chili pepper, aleva, bird pepper, or, especially in its powdered form, red pepper, is a cultivar of Capsicum annuum related to bell peppers, jalapenos, jalapeños, paprika and. others Cayenne is used in cooking spicy dishes, as a powder or in its whole form (such as in Korean, Sichuan, and other Asian cuisine), or in a thin, vinegar-based sauce. It is generally rated at 30,000 to 50,000 Scoville units.
Cayenne pepper takes its name from its supposed centre of origin – the Cayenne region of French Guiana, Cayenne deriving from a Tupi Indian name. Cooking with Cayenne Pepper. Cayenne pepper can be used as a spice in cooking; or as a condiment at table, generally with seafoods, such as oysters, sardines, smoked salmon and trout, scallops, fried mussels, crab, lobster and crayfish. It may be sprinkled over soups and hors d’oeuvres.
The word pepper originated from the Sanskrit word pippali, meaning berry. Pepper is now grown in Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, and Kampuchea as well as the West coast of India, known as Malabar, where it originated. The United States is the largest importer of pepper. 
Cayenne pepper is named after its supposed place of origin, the city of Cayenne in French Guiana, and it is now cultivated in many tropical and subtropical areas throughout the world, including parts of India, Africa, and North and South America. The pepper is the fruit of a small plant named Capsicum annuum. It may be used fresh, but it is most commonly dried and ground into a powder for ease of storage and incorporation into food.
Cayenne pepper is a finely ground powder prepared from the seeds and pods of various types of chile. The cayenne variety is commonly called ‘Bird Chile’, and the botanical name variously given as C. minimum or C. baccatum. As most powders are blends, the names of the varieties used are not very important. Cooking with Cayenne Pepper. Cayenne pepper can be used as a spice in cooking; or as a condiment at table, generally with seafoods, such as oysters, sardines, smoked salmon and trout, scallops, fried mussels, crab, lobster and crayfish. It may be sprinkled over soups and hors d’oeuvres.