Ms. Khobragade, 39, was released on a $ 250,000 bond. Following the arrest of Ms. Khobragade, India has sought details of salaries of the Indians working at the American Embassy in New Delhi and its other diplomatic missions. According to information available, Indian staff working at US Embassies, including cooks and drivers, are paid between an amount of Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000 (USD 200 to 250) which is below the minimum wage of USD 9.47 per hour applicable in New York or in any other US city.
Overseas-Working in a US Embassy or Consulate. United States Embassies and Consulates in countries overseas often have job openings for family members of USG employees posted to that country. The availability of positions depends on the size of the Mission and the current job openings. Family members wishing to work within the Embassy or Consulate of their assigned post should contact the Community Liaison Office coordinator (CLO) or the Human Resources Officer at post. These individuals can provide information on current vacancy announcements.
1 Salary Search: Media Communication Coordinator salaries in Washington, DC. 2  Related forums: Embassy of the Republic of Iraq-Washington, District of Columbia - -. 1 View all Foreign & Commonwealth Office jobs in Washington, DC-Washington jobs. 2  Salary Search: Administrative Governance Officer salaries in Washington, DC. 3  Related forums: Foreign & Commonwealth Office
India-United States. The United States has said that the salary of its embassy staff in countries around the world is based on prevailing wages in conjunction with the local law. According to information available, Indian staff working at US Embassies, including cooks and drivers, are paid between an amount of Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000 (USD 200 to 250) which is below the minimum wage of USD 9.47 per hour applicable in New York or in any other US city.
1 Salary Search: Economic Researcher salaries in Washington, DC. 2  Related forums: Embassy of the Republic of Korea-Washington, District of Columbia - -. 1 View all Foreign & Commonwealth Office jobs in Washington, DC-Washington jobs. 2  Salary Search: Administrative Governance Officer salaries in Washington, DC. 3  Related forums: Foreign & Commonwealth Office
Average Us Embassy Salaries. The average salary for us embassy jobs is $64,000. Average us embassy salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term us embassy anywhere in the job listing.
A visas are acceptable at the Embassy and Consulates. The British Embassy is an equal opportunity employer, dedicated to a diverse workforce.... 7 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Foreign & Commonwealth Office jobs in Washington, DC-Washington jobs. 1 View all Foreign & Commonwealth Office jobs in Washington, DC-Washington jobs. 2  Salary Search: Administrative Governance Officer salaries in Washington, DC. 3  Related forums: Foreign & Commonwealth Office-Washington, District of Columbia - -.
If the announcement states that the vacancy is open to employees of the U.S. Embassy, U.S. citizen EFMs, EFMs, and Members of Household (MOH) – All Agencies, you MUST be a U.S. Embassy employee, EFM or MOH to apply. Other applicants will not be considered for these positions. The U.S. Embassy to the Netherlands is currently accepting applications for the employment opportunities listed below. All applications must be submitted through this website. We no longer accept mail-in or drop-off applications, except for newly arrived Eligible Family Members (EFMs) without Internet access.
wage and pension. The United States has said that the salary of its embassy staff in countries around the world is based on prevailing wages in conjunction with the local law. According to information available, Indian staff working at US Embassies, including cooks and drivers, are paid between an amount of Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000 (USD 200 to 250) which is below the minimum wage of USD 9.47 per hour applicable in New York or in any other US city.
The issue of salaries paid to employees in the US embassy and consulates in India came to the fore after senior Indian diplomat Devyani Khobragade was arrested in New York on December 12 on charges of making false declarations in a visa application for her maid Sangeeta Richard. According to information available, Indian staff working at US Embassies, including cooks and drivers, are paid between an amount of Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000 (USD 200 to 250) which is below the minimum wage of USD 9.47 per hour applicable in New York or in any other US city.