► A Venus global geological map (1:10 M) is based on definition of 12 geological units. ► Global unit mapping shows the same stratigraphic sequence for the major units. ► Three periods (Fortunian, Guineverian, Atlian) compose the visible geologic history. 
Full Definition of VENUS. 1. : the Roman goddess of love and beauty — compare aphrodite. 2. : the planet second in order from the sun — see planet table. See Venus defined for English-language learners. See Venus defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The surface of Venus is covered by a dense atmosphere and presents clear evidence of former violent volcanic activity. It has shield and composite volcanoes similar to those found on Earth. Relative to the Moon, Mars or Mercury, Venus has few small impact craters. After the Moon, Venus was the second object in the Solar System to be explored by radar from the Earth. The first studies were carried out in 1961 at NASA 's Goldstone Observatory, part of the Deep Space Network.
Venus's mantle is approximately 3,000 kilometres (1,900 mi) thick, but its composition is unknown. Since Venus is a terrestrial planet, it is presumed to have a core made of semisolid iron and nickel with a radius of approximately 3,000 kilometres (1,900 mi). After the Moon, Venus was the second object in the Solar System to be explored by radar from the Earth. The first studies were carried out in 1961 at NASA 's Goldstone Observatory, part of the Deep Space Network.
Venus is a planet with striking surface characteristics. Most of what is known about its surface stems from radar observations, mainly images sent by the Magellan probe between August 16, 1990 and the end of its sixth orbital cycle in September 1994. After the Moon, Venus was the second object in the Solar System to be explored by radar from the Earth. The first studies were carried out in 1961 at NASA 's Goldstone Observatory, part of the Deep Space Network.
Although the geo-prefix typically indicates topics of or relating to the Earth, planetary geology is named as such for historical and convenience reasons; applying geological science to other planetary bodies. Surface of Mars as photographed by the Viking 2 lander December 9, 1977. Planetary geology, alternatively known as astrogeology or exogeology, is a planetary science discipline concerned with the geology of the celestial bodies such as the planets and their moons, asteroids, comets, and meteorites.
Take a look at Venus in even the most powerful telescope, and all you’ll see is clouds. There are no surface features visible at all. It wasn’t until the last few decades, when radar equipped spacecraft arrived at Venus, that scientists finally had a chance to study the geology of Venus in great detail. Artistic interpretation of a possible volcano on Venus. Credits: ESA-AOES Medialab. Spacecraft like NASA’s Magellan mission are equipped with radar instruments that let it penetrate down through the clouds on Venus and reveal the surface below. But the total number of craters showed that the surface of Venus is actually pretty young. It’s likely that some catastrophic event resurfaced Venus about 300-500 million years ago, wiping out old craters and volcanoes. Unlike Earth, Venus doesn’t have plate tectonics.
Due to the types of investigations involved, it is also closely linked with Earth-based geology. Planetary geology includes such topics as determining the internal structure of the terrestrial planets, and also looks at planetary volcanism and surface processes such as impact craters, fluvial and aeolian processes. Surface of Mars as photographed by the Viking 2 lander December 9, 1977. Planetary geology, alternatively known as astrogeology or exogeology, is a planetary science discipline concerned with the geology of the celestial bodies such as the planets and their moons, asteroids, comets, and meteorites.
Planetary geology, sometimes referred to as Exogeology or Astrogeology, is the study of the physical characteristics of planetary bodies in the solar systems. Specifically, planetary geologists focus on how planets and their satellites formed and have developed. 