Injuries to the head and neck during sports, accidents, and other traumatic events are common. Two of the most frequently occurring conditions in the head and neck area are whiplash (a particular neck injury from high velocity forces) and concussion (a closed-head injury, sometimes called mild traumatic brain injury). Relationship Between Whiplash and Concussion. It is obvious that during a whiplash event that, in addition to the soft-tissue neck injuries that there could be direct contact of the head on an unforgiving surface.
Betty's total bills were $6,800 and Carl's bills were $8,900. While this would have been covered by the insurance in place, there was little left for their pain and suffering, which is part of any whiplash insurance settlement. Betty demanded a total of $18,000 and Carl demanded $27,000. Carl received 60% of the total settlement or $15,000. His medical bills were completely covered by his insurance company and they did not seek indemnification or reimbursement. Therefore, Carl received the whole $15,000 since he also did not have an attorney. Important Points ...
Settlement Compensation for Whiplash. The average settlement value for whiplash can range from $0 (for those people who are not familiar with their legal rights to obtain money for such injuries), to $10,000 or much more when a personal injury compensation claim is filed. Whiplash is one of the most common injuries sustained in a car accident. Due to the forces involved when a moving car a decelerated rapidly, the passengers head will continue to travel while his or her torso has stopped or slowed significantly.
Betty's settlement request was 40% of the total, therefore she received 40% of what was available or $10,000. Her medical bills were $6,800 and she negotiated them down to $4000, so she was left with $6,000 since she did not have to pay an attorney's fee. Carl received 60% of the total settlement or $15,000. His medical bills were completely covered by his insurance company and they did not seek indemnification or reimbursement. Therefore, Carl received the whole $15,000 since he also did not have an attorney. Important Points ...
The following case example results in a whiplash insurance settlement and demonstrates some important legal issues regarding car accident claims. We'll review the accident, liability, injuries, settlement negotiations, and the final case resolution. Carl received 60% of the total settlement or $15,000. His medical bills were completely covered by his insurance company and they did not seek indemnification or reimbursement. Therefore, Carl received the whole $15,000 since he also did not have an attorney. Important Points ...
You certainly can get more on a whiplash car accident injury settlement if the other driver was drunk or if you have bruising, cuts, or scars and again it depends on each case and e ach case will vary, of course. Anatomy of a Whiplash Injury. Every year in the United States there are over 1 million people hurt by whiplash in car crashes. More than $30 billion is spent in the United States on these whiplash injuries. A whiplash injury can cause long term problems.
Recognition of symptoms and causative factors for one level of brain injury, concussion, can be difficult even when there is direct contact to the head and the injury may seem obvious. Even more difficult to recognize is brain injury when there is minimal or no direct injury to the head, as in the case of whiplash. Relationship Between Whiplash and Concussion. It is obvious that during a whiplash event that, in addition to the soft-tissue neck injuries that there could be direct contact of the head on an unforgiving surface.
Whiplash is a lay term for an injury to the soft tissues of the neck, which include the neck muscles, tendons, and ligaments. Whiplash is not a formal medical diagnosis; it generally refers to soft tissue injuries such as neck sprain or neck strain. Whiplash is caused when the neck moves back and forth due to the impact of the car accident. The main symptoms of whiplash include neck or upper back pain or stiffness, shoulder pain or stiffness, headache, dizziness, or a burning or itching sensation in the neck, shoulders, or arm
Talk to a Car Accident Lawyer. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. The short answer is “No.” Insurance companies don’t have a dollar amount that they start from when figuring out how much a car accident settlement is worth when someone has suffered a whiplash-type neck injury. When the car insurance company considers your claim and approaches you (or your attorney) with a car accident settlement proposal, it’s a safe bet that they have weighed a number of key factors before deciding on a dollar amount. These include, among others:
“What is the recent range of whiplash settlement amounts in Oregon and Washington and what is the average whiplash settlement?” I would say the range is a low of $500 to a high of $17,500. Anatomy of a Whiplash Injury. Every year in the United States there are over 1 million people hurt by whiplash in car crashes. More than $30 billion is spent in the United States on these whiplash injuries. A whiplash injury can cause long term problems.