DEFINITION of 'Investment'. An asset or item that is purchased with the hope that it will generate income or appreciate in the future. In an economic sense, an investment is the purchase of goods that are not consumed today but are used in the future to create wealth. In finance, an investment is a monetary asset purchased with the idea that the asset will provide income in the future or appreciate and be sold at a higher price.
DEFINITION of 'Cost Accounting'. Cost accounting is a type of accounting process that aims to capture a company's costs of production by assessing the input costs of each step of production as well as fixed costs such as depreciation of capital equipment. While cost accounting is often used within a company to aid in decision making, financial accounting is what the outside investor community typically sees. Financial accounting is a different representation of costs and financial performance that includes a company's assets and liabilities
In finance, investment is the purchase of an asset or item with the hope that it will generate income or appreciate in the future and be sold at the higher price. It generally does not include deposits with a bank or similar institution. The term investment is usually used when referring to a long-term outlook. This article concerns investment in finance. In finance, investment is buying or creating an asset with the expectation of capital appreciation, dividends (profit), interest earnings, rents, or some combination of these returns. This may or may not be backed by research and analysis.
Examples of assets that are not investment property are property intended for sale in the near term, property being constructed for a third party, owner-occupied property, and property leased to a third party under a finance lease. It generates cash flows mostly independently of other assets held by an entity. It is not property that an entity uses to supply goods or services, nor is it used for administrative purposes. Examples of investment property are land held for appreciation and a building held for current or future leases to third parties.
Investment Center. An investment center, also called and investment division, is a way to classify and evaluate a department based on its revenues, costs, and asset investments. Instead of categorizing departments into cost centers and profit centers, management often looks at departments as investment centers. 
Investment Property. Definition: Under international financial reporting standards, investment property is property that an entity holds to earn rental income and/or capital appreciation. It generates cash flows mostly independently of other assets held by an entity. It is not property that an entity uses to supply goods or services, nor is it used for administrative purposes. Examples of investment property are land held for appreciation and a building held for current or future leases to third parties.
Investment. Definition: An investment is a payment made to acquire the securities of other entities, with the objective of earning a return. Examples are bonds, common stock, and preferred stock. There are two ways to earn a return on an investment, which are from ongoing payments issued by the investment or through the appreciation in value of the asset. The concept can also mean the acquisition of fixed assets for internal use, also
In the financial sense investments include the purchase of bonds, stocks or real estate property. Be sure not to get 'making an investment' and 'speculating' confused. Investing usually involves the creation of wealth whereas speculating is often a zero-sum game; wealth is not created. In finance, an investment is a monetary asset purchased with the idea that the asset will provide income in the future or appreciate and be sold at a higher price.