What is the hypodermic needle theory all about? It's an outdated theory of communication that suggests that an audience is helpless to the effects and messages of a medium, such as television. …   In the hands of a good nurse or doctor the insertion of a hypodermic needle or intravenous needle is in line with a mosquito bite. At the most it might be as painful as pulling a few arm hairs out with your watch band.
hypodermic. adj. 1. (Anatomy) of or relating to the region of the skin beneath the epidermis. 2. (Medicine) injected beneath the skin. n. 3. (Medicine) a hypodermic syringe or needle. 4. (Medicine) a hypodermic injection. (ˌhaɪ pəˈdɜr mɪk). adj. 
The Magic Bullet or Hypodermic Needle Theory of direct influence effects was not as widely accepted by scholars as many books on mass communication indicate. The magic bullet theory was not based on empirical findings from research but rather on assumptions of the time about human nature. Similarly, the Hypodermic Needle Model uses the same idea of the shooting paradigm. It suggests that the media injects its messages straight into the passive audience (Croteau, Hoynes 1997). This passive audience is immediately affected by these messages.
A hypodermic needle (from Greek ὑπο- (under-), and δέρμα (skin)) is a hollow needle commonly used with a syringe to inject substances into the body or extract fluids from it. They may also be used to take liquid samples from the body, for example taking blood from a vein in venipuncture. Dr. Charles Hunter, a London surgeon, is credited with the coining of the term hypodermic to describe subcutaneous injection in 1858. The name originates from two Greek words: hypo, under, and derma, skin.
A hypodermic needle is used for rapid delivery of liquids, or when the injected substance cannot be ingested, either because it would not be absorbed (as with insulin), or because it would harm the liver. There are many possible routes for an injection. Dr. Charles Hunter, a London surgeon, is credited with the coining of the term hypodermic to describe subcutaneous injection in 1858. The name originates from two Greek words: hypo, under, and derma, skin.
Familiarity information: HYPODERMIC used as a noun is very rare. • HYPODERMIC (adjective). The adjective HYPODERMIC has 1 sense: 1. relating to or located below the epidermis. Familiarity information: HYPODERMIC used as an adjective is very rare. 
Full Definition of HYPODERMIC. 1. : adapted for use in or administered by injection beneath the skin. 2. : of or relating to the parts beneath the skin. 3. : resembling a hypodermic injection in effect: stimulating. — hy·po·der·mi·cal·ly \-mi-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See hypodermic defined for English-language learners. : used for putting fluids into or taking fluids out of the body by going under the skin.
The hypodermic needle model (also known as the hypodermic-syringe model, transmission-belt model, or magic bullet theory) is a model of communications suggesting that an intended message is directly received and wholly accepted by the receiver. Similarly, the Hypodermic Needle Model uses the same idea of the shooting paradigm. It suggests that the media injects its messages straight into the passive audience (Croteau, Hoynes 1997). This passive audience is immediately affected by these messages.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Issactorres97. Confidence votes 1. Hypodermic means under the skin. Hypo means under, dermis (dermic) means skin. Like a hypodermic needle is inserted under the skin. …   In the hands of a good nurse or doctor the insertion of a hypodermic needle or intravenous needle is in line with a mosquito bite. At the most it might be as painful as pulling a few arm hairs out with your watch band.