Exons and introns are part of the mRNA. During transcription inside the nucleus, introns are removed from the mRNA because they are not coded to make a protein. Exons are then … joined together because that is the part required for translation. Before the RNA leaves the nucleus, the introns are removed and the exons are joined together, producing an mRNA molecule with a continuous coding sequence. This process is cal … led RNA splicing.
A chemical found in the nucleus and cytoplasm of cells; it plays an important role in protein synthesis. The structure of RNA is similar to that of DNA. There are several types of RNA molecules, but the messenger RNA, transfer RNA, and ribosomal RNA are vital for protein synthesis. The role of tRNA in protein synthesis is to bond with amino acids and transfer them to the ribosomes, where proteins are assembled according to the genetic code carried by mRNA. translation. The process in which the genetic code carried by mRNA is translated into a sequence of amino acid
Splicing. Eukaryotic genes are often interrupted by sequences that do not appear in the final RNA. The intervening sequences that are removed are called introns. The process by which introns are removed is referred to as splicing. The sequences remaining after the splicing are called exons. All of the different major types of RNA in a eukaryotic cell can have introns. 
– The base sequences of the transcribed RNA complement the base sequences of the template DNA. –In prokaryotes, RNA synthesis and protein synthesis take place in the cytoplasm. – In eukaryotes, RNA is produced in the cell’s nucleus and then moves to the cytoplasm to play a role in the production of proteins. 
Such stretches of DNA, which get transcribed into RNA but not translated into protein, are called introns. Those stretches of DNA that do code for amino acids in the protein are called exons. Examples: 1  The gene for one type of collagen found in chickens is split into 52 separate exons. 1 Step-by-step removal of introns present in the pre-mRNA and splicing of the remaining exons. 2  This step takes place as the pre-mRNA continues to emerge from Pol II. 3  Synthesis of the poly(A) tail. 4  This is a stretch of adenine (A) nucleotides.
Transcrition/translation-Exons and introns. Description: In most eukaryotic genes, coding regions (exons) are interrupted by noncoding regions (introns). During transcription, the entire gene is copied into a pre-mRNA, which includes exons and introns. During the process of RNA splicing, introns are removed and exons joined to form a contiguous coding sequence. This mature mRNA is ready for translation. 
Always happy to ask and answer questions. Exons are the coding regions which bear codons, each codon representing one amino acid. Thus exons are directly responsible for the amino acid sequence of the proteins. Introns are intervening sequences and bear no coding regions and cannot influence the protein sequence. Before the RNA leaves the nucleus, the introns are removed and the exons are joined together, producing an mRNA molecule with a continuous coding sequence. This process is cal … led RNA splicing.
1 transcription of the information encoded in DNA into a molecule of RNA (described here) and. 2  translation of the information encoded in the nucleotides of mRNA into a defined sequence of amino acids in a protein (discussed in. 3  Gene Translation: RNA → Protein). 1 Step-by-step removal of introns present in the pre-mRNA and splicing of the remaining exons. 2  This step takes place as the pre-mRNA continues to emerge from Pol II. 3  Synthesis of the poly(A) tail. 4  This is a stretch of adenine (A) nucleotides.