A bipolar disorder diagnosis is made only by taking careful note of symptoms, including their severity, length, and frequency. Mood swings from day to day or moment to moment do not necessarily indicate a diagnosis of bipolar disorder.
The correct answer is: B Mood. Explanation: Bipolar disorder is a mood disorder. People who have bipolar disorder are at a higher risk of also suffering from substance abuse and other mental health problems.
Most people with bipolar disorder, though, do not have a family history of bipolar disorder. Also, the doctor will ask detailed questions about your bipolar symptoms. Other questions may focus on reasoning, memory, ability to express yourself, and ability to maintain relationships. 1 | 2 | 3.
Bipolar disorder is a mood disorder that affects millions of people from all walks of life. According to medical professionals, people who suffer from this condition experience episodes of mania, which are typically followed by episodes of depression and vice versa.
Bipolar disorder often has an early onset. Research has shown that 1.8% of children and adolescents merit a Bipolar diagnosis. Typically though, the disorder is diagnosed around the late twenties or early thirties. This article will help you determine whether you, or people you care about, might have bipolar disorder.
1 Whether you have bipolar I or II disorder, you'll typically need mood-stabilizing medication to control manic or hypomanic episodes. 2  Examples of mood stabilizers include lithium (Lithobid), valproic acid (Depakene), divalproex sodium (Depakote), carbamazepine (Tegretol, Equetro, others) and lamotrigine (Lamictal).
Bipolar disorder is a condition in which a person has periods of depression and periods of being extremely happy or being cross or irritable. In addition to these mood swings, the person also has extreme changes in activity and energy levels.
Many people with bipolar disorder do not recognize when they are becoming more depressed or more manic. Joining a support group may help you and your loved ones. Involving family members and caregivers in your treatment programs may help reduce the chance of symptoms returning in the patient.