Mousetrap-powered Cars Design. One of the things that makes mousetrap-powered cars so fascinating is their simplicity. Even though they work using principles of physics, you certainly don't need to be a physicist to build and enjoy them. At their most basic, mousetrap-powered cars consist of: 1  A body -- usually flat and elongated to hold the mousetrap. 2  A spring-loaded, conventional mousetrap -- the engine of the car. The spinning wheels push the mousetrap car across the floor. Unlike when it's in mouse-catching mode, the mousetrap won't clamp on your finger and turn it into a throbbing purplish mess -- that is, if the trap is set up properly.
My car is made with a rat trap instead of a mouse trap. I had some knex lying around and I thought that they could make great wheels and axles. This car goes pretty far and fast so be careful. You also need to be careful of the rat trap because it is on a hair trigger and can release at any moment. I take no responsibility of damage to any property, body parts or animals hehe. Make sure nobody is in the path of the car when it is being launched.
A mousetrap powered car is a vehicle that uses a mouse trap for a motor. There are many different ideas but the most common and probably the most successful ideas is to attach a string to the mouse trap and axle or the string pull. This book will teach you step-by-step how to build the BEST mouse trap projects on the face of the planet and it explains all the physics behind how these contraptions work. Endorsed by teachers around the world. 100 pages. This book has sold more than 25,000 copies world wide.
Perhaps the single most important concept to understand in order to build a mousetrap powered vehicle is the concept of energy. Energy is defined as having the ability to do work and work is the displacement of an object that result in something being done. But in our universe there is friction and in order to overcome friction your mousetrap car will have to do work. Friction converts the energy of a moving objects into heat and sound and this will eventually causes a moving object to come to a stop.
A mousetrap is a specialized type of animal trap designed primarily to catch mice; however, it may also trap other small animals. Mousetraps are usually set in an indoor location where there is a suspected infestation of rodents. There are various types of mousetrap, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. 
A rod connected to the trap bar (the piece normally used to snap a mouse's neck) pulls on a long piece of string wound around one of the axles. As the string unwinds, it causes the axle and attached wheels to rotate. The spinning wheels push the mousetrap car across the floor. Unlike when it's in mouse-catching mode, the mousetrap won't clamp on your finger and turn it into a throbbing purplish mess -- that is, if the trap is set up properly.
By winding the string around the axle the mouse trap's spring is stretched and now you have your stored energy. As the mousetrap car is released the mouse trap pulls the string off of the axle causing the wheels to turn and off the vehicle goes. mousetrap car basic propulsion theory Step #1 A string is attached to the mouse trap's lever arm and them attached to the drive axle. This book will teach you step-by-step how to build the BEST mouse trap projects on the face of the planet and it explains all the physics behind how these contraptions work. Endorsed by teachers around the world. 100 pages. This book has sold more than 25,000 copies world wide.
You can see many different student efforts at the Mouse Trap Car Challenge web site. 1  Increase friction by waxing the string with candle wax. 2  Increase friction where it is needed by using a rubber tire or tape around the axle where the string is wrapped. 3  Reduce mass by using a simple light stick for the body section. So, your science teacher has given your class the classic mousetrap car assignment: to make, design and build a small vehicle powered by the snapping action of a mousetrap to make your car travel as far as possible.
You power it by simply setting the trap and let it loose by springing the trap. Lots of variations of mousetrap-powered cars have, ahem, sprung up: People have built designs with two, three and four wheels, and out of a variety of materials. Builders have reported achieving distances of close more than 300 feet (91.4 meters) with a single press of the trap. This article will look at how these physics lessons on wheels work, as well as ways you can build your own and maybe even be the Big Cheese on your block when it comes to making things that go. To learn about how mousetrap-powered cars are designed, read the next page. Print.