A planetary nebula is created when a star blows off its outer layers after it has run out of fuel to burn. These outer layers of gas expand into space, forming a nebula which is often the shape of a ring or bubble. About 200 years ago, William Herschel called these spherical clouds planetary nebulae because they were round like the planets. At the center of a planetary nebula, the glowing, left-over central part of the star from which it came can usually still be seen. 1  Javascript must be enabled to use Cool Cosmos.
A Planetary Nebula Sampler. A planetary nebula forms when a star can no longer support itself by fusion reactions in its center. The gravity from the material in the outer part of the star takes its inevitable toll on the structure of the star, and forces the inner parts to condense and heat up. 
Confidence votes 119. A planetary nebula is created when a star blows off its outer layers after it has run out of fuel to burn. These outer layers of gas expand into space, forming a nebula, which is often the shape of a ring or bubble. Answer   A nebula is a large cloud of gas in space, a planetary nebula is the large cloud of expanding superheated gas caused by the explosion of a red giant or oth … er very large, very hot star. Neither have anything to do with planets. 4 people found this useful. Answered.
Other types of nebulae include emission nebulae, which are clouds of ionized gas emitting light of various colors; dark nebulae, which are clouds of gas so dense that background light is blocked; and protoplanetary nebulae, which occur when a star starts to shed its outer layers before becoming a planetary nebula. Saturn Nebula NGC 7009: Located in the constellation Aquarius, the Saturn Nebula, or NGC 7009, has a bright central star surrounded by a football shaped array of gas and dust. Stingray Nebula (Hen-1357): The youngest known planetary nebula, Hen-1357 is as large as 130 solar systems.
Planetary Nebula. A planetary nebula is not a planet, although its name often gives that initial impression. It is actually the accumulation of gas and plasma given off by a star that is about to bade farewell to the universe. They are so named because their appearance through a small optical telescope closely resembles a giant planet.
A planetary nebula is a nebula that is made up of gas and plasma. They are made by certain types of stars when they die. They are named this because they look like planets through small optical telescopes. This is what causes a planetary nebula to look like it does. Planetary nebulae are very special objects because they can help make more stars. When a star dies, the metals that were in the core of the star are sent to other places in the universe.
The word nebula is Latin for mist or cloud and the term planetary nebula is a misnomer that originated in the 1780s with astronomer William Herschel because when viewed through his telescope, these objects appeared to him to resemble the rounded shapes of planets. The central stars of planetary nebulae are very hot. Only once a star has exhausted most of its nuclear fuel can it collapse to such a small size. Planetary nebulae came to be understood as a final stage of stellar evolution. Spectroscopic observations show that all planetary nebulae are expanding.
planetary nebula. n. 1. (Celestial Objects) an expanding shell of gas surrounding a dying star, formed from matter ejected from the star's outer layers; the gas is ionized by the remaining hot stellar core, emitting light in the process. [C18: named from its (occasional) resemblance to a planetary disc]. 
A mechanism for formation of most planetary nebulae is thought to be the following: at the end of the star's life, during the red giant phase, the outer layers of the star are expelled by strong stellar winds. The central stars of planetary nebulae are very hot. Only once a star has exhausted most of its nuclear fuel can it collapse to such a small size. Planetary nebulae came to be understood as a final stage of stellar evolution. Spectroscopic observations show that all planetary nebulae are expanding.