Vicodin is made of a combination of hydrocodone, a synthetic opiate, and acetaminophen, a non-steroidal pain reliever. Aside from the euphoric and addictive effects of hydrocodone, there is about half a gram of acetaminophen in each pill, and two to four grams of acetaminophen in a day can start to damage the liver. There is a range of effects from Vicodin
History of Vicodin: Hydrocodone or Vicodin was created by German scientists in the mid 1920's. They did this by bonding a hydrogen atom to codeine molecules. It was approved for sale in the United States under the brand name Hycodan in 1943. Today it is known as Vicodin. In 1984 Vicodin was approved for sale by the FDA.
Vicodin was first manufactured in 1920. Vicodin is the combination of Hydrocodone and acetaminophen. The generic name of Vicodin is hydrocodone. No one really knows when the shovel was invented nor whom it was invented by. There are archeological findings of animal scapulas (shoulder blades) that were used as crude sho … vels that date around Neolithic times or the New Stone Age, which is around 12,000 years ago.
Report Abuse. Vicodin (hydrocodone)is a semi-synthetic opioid derived from two of the naturally occurring opiates, codeine and thebaine. Dihydrocodeine was a precursor to the invention of hydrocodone, which was synthesized originally as an antitussive (Capable of relieving or suppressing coughing) in the 1920s. Hard to find information on exactly WHEN it was invented... I kept getting sites about history over overdose. 
First created in the 1920’s by German pharmaceutical company Knoll, Hydrocodone is created by attaching a hydrogen atom to codeine molecules. When it was first released, Knoll believed that this process would make the codeine easier on the stomach and less toxic to the user. As we move through the 21st century, hydrocodone addiction remains a growing problem in our community. At Michael’s House, we possess a deep understanding of Hydrocodone and what it means to be in the grasp of this highly addictive drug.
Vicodin is made up of hydrocodone and acetaminophen (same as Tylenol), usually at a ratio of 1:100 hydrocodone to acetaminophen. So if you had 7.5 mg of hydrocodone, you would … have 750 mg of acetaminophen. 9 people found this useful. No one really knows when the shovel was invented nor whom it was invented by. There are archeological findings of animal scapulas (shoulder blades) that were used as crude sho … vels that date around Neolithic times or the New Stone Age, which is around 12,000 years ago.
By the late 1970s, Knoll released branded Vicodin on the market, containing 5 mg of hydrocodone in combination with 500 mg of acetaminophen. By the early 1980s, Vicodin costs descended, as generic versions of the drug debuted. 