It started first in Egypt and from there it moved to Phoenicia, Carthage, Greece and Rome. Egypt is the gift of Hapy, and the Nile is an area surrounded by the barren desert. Hapy is in fact the ancient name of the Nile, which left a deposit of rich soil that formed the Delta of Lower Egypt. The contrast between the barren deserts and the fertile valley, as well as the cyclical rhythm of the Nile, brought to the Ancient Egyptians a deep sense of order, tradition, justice and sincerity. 
Egypt is a country in North Africa, on the Mediterranean Sea, and is among the oldest civilizations on earth. The name 'Egypt' comes from the Greek Aegyptos which was the Greek pronunciation of the Egyptian name 'Hwt-Ka-Ptah' (which means House of the Spirit of Ptah, who was a very early God of the Ancient Egyptians). In the early Old Kingdom, Egypt was simply known as 'Kemet' which means 'Black Land' so named for the rich, dark soil along the Nile River where the first settlements began. Later, the country was known simply as Misr which means 'country', a name still in use by Egyptians for their nation in the present day.
Ancient Egypt was a civilization of ancient Northeastern Africa, concentrated along the lower reaches of the Nile River in what is now the modern country of Egypt. It is one of six civilizations globally to arise independently. The success of ancient Egyptian civilization came partly from its ability to adapt to the conditions of the Nile River valley for agriculture. The predictable flooding and controlled irrigation of the fertile valley produced surplus crops, which supported a more dense population, and social development and culture.
Ancient Egypt, one of history’s first civilizations arose around the Nile River about 5,000 years ago. It lasted for over 2,000 years. The Nile River was the centre of Ancient Egypt. The annual floods brought rich black soil to the banks of the Nile River and made it possible for farmers to grow crops. The river was also Egypt’s main transportation route
The Nile River flows north through Egypt and into the Mediterranean Sea. Ancient Egypt was divided into two regions, Upper Egypt and Lower Egypt. This looks a bit confusing on a map because Upper Egypt is to the south and Lower Egypt is to the north. This is because the names come from the flow of the Nile River. 1 This was the main type of cloth used by the Egyptians. 2  Papyrus-Papyrus was a plant that grew along the shores of the Nile. 3  The Ancient Egyptians found many uses for this plant including paper, baskets, rope, and sandals. 4  The Ancient Egyptians called the rich black soil from the floods the Gift
The Inundation, as it was called, carried a rich bed of silt and alluvial soil onto the farmland of Egypt. In this way, the farmland of Egypt was annually replenished and invigorated, making Egypt the garden-land of the ancient world. The Nile's annual Inundation thus established the pattern of Egyptian life very early. The Greek historian Herodotus called Egypt the gift of the Nile, since the kingdom owed its survival to the annual flooding of the Nile and the resulting depositing of fertile silt. The Nile River flows into the Mediterranean Sea, and there is a delta at the mouth.
The geography of ancient Egypt was dominated, as is today, by the combination of lack of rainfall and the Nile River. The Greek historian Herodotus called Egypt the gift of the Nile, since the kingdom owed its survival to the annual flooding of the Nile and the resulting depositing of fertile silt. The Nile River flows into the Mediterranean Sea, and there is a delta at the mouth.
Egypt is located on the continent of Africa. The climate in ancient Egypt is very hot and dry. The ancient Egyptians farmed and irrigated the land near the Nile River. The Nile River flows north into the Mediterranean Sea. The Nile River was used by the ancient Egyptians for many things. 
In Egypt, the River Nile creates a fertile green valley across the desert. It was by the banks of the river that one of the oldest civilizations in the world began. The ancient Egyptians lived and farmed along the Nile, using the soil to produce food for themselves and their animals. 