1 Each time your Credit Account is eligible for and approved for an unsecured credit limit increase, a Credit Limit Increase Fee in the amount of 25% of the amount of the credit limit increase will be assessed to your Credit Account. * 2  We are not affiliated with or authorized by First PREMIER Bank. 
The process is similar to how issuers figure out the interest rate on your credit card, says Bill McCracken, CEO of Synergistics Research Corp., a market research firm that focuses on financial institutions. For example, a specific credit card offer may come with a credit limit between $1,000 and $5,000. Those with higher credit scores will get the $5,000 credit limit, but those who fall on the lower end of the qualifying credit range will get $1,000. For example, a run-of-the-mill green card would come with a $500 limit, the gold card would get a $2,000 limit and the platinum card would come with a $5,000 limit. The limit applies to everyone who qualifies for the card. But just because you applied for the $5,000 card doesn't mean you'll be approved.
1 If approved, pay a Processing Fee and you can access the $300 credit limit (subject to available credit). 2  Receive your card more quickly with optional Expedited Processing (additional fee applies). 3  Get a result in as little as 60 seconds upon completion of the online application. The grace period listed for The First Access Visa® Credit Card is at least 21 days*. So interest charges will not be applied for new purchases during this time. Be aware that some issuers will begin charging interest on cash advances and balance transfers on the transaction date.
The minimum credit limit is $500 with a maximum of $25,000 for the TD Cash Rewards Visa, TD Easy Rewards Visa, TD Payment Plus Visa, TD Simply Flexible Business Visa and TD Business Solutions Visa Cards. All TD Visa Signature Cards have a minimum credit limit of $5,000. 
++The Service Fee of $84.00 will be billed at $7.00 per month. Other Charges: Credit Limit Increase Fee: Each time your Account is eligible and approved for a credit limit increase, a $25.00 fee is imposed. Internet Access Fee: $3.95; Copying Fee: $3.00 per item. Wire transfer fee: $5.00 per transaction. For description of FINANCE CHARGES see below. 
Some issuers like to keep it simple, offering credit cards with predetermined credit limits. The consumer can apply for whichever one he'd like. For example, a run-of-the-mill green card would come with a $500 limit, the gold card would get a $2,000 limit and the platinum card would come with a $5,000 limit. The limit applies to everyone who qualifies for the card. But just because you applied for the $5,000 card doesn't mean you'll be approved.
Of the many methods you can use to improve your credit score, increasing your credit limits is one you can employ today. You can usually ask for a credit limit increase after the first six months of opening a credit card. However, plenty of people don’t act to boost their spending limits. See how you can increase your credit limits and how each method can affect your credit score: 1. 3. Card limit transfers. The first two methods of getting a credit limit increase are the standard approaches that credit card users take to increase their spending limits. If those two fail, there is one more way – but it is a little more tedious and could negatively affect your credit score.
1 If approved, pay a Processing Fee and you can access the $300 credit limit (subject to available credit). 2  Receive your card more quickly with optional Expedited Processing (additional fee applies). 3  Get a result in as little as 60 seconds upon completion of the online application. 4  Online Customer Center available 24 x 7. The First Access VISA® Credit Card is a solid option for people looking to build or rebuild their credit scores. What to Like. Since the First Access VISA® Credit Card reports monthly to all three major credit bureaus, you can use this card to start building your credit with on-time payments and other responsible use.