The word 'Physics' comes from the Greek Word for 'Nature' (written as 'φύση'). From Google: 'etymology of physics'. physics - ˈfɪzɪks. noun: physics the branch of science concerned with the nature and properties of matter and energy. The subject matter of physics includes mechanics, heat, light and other radiation, sound, electricity, magnetism, and the structure of atoms. the physical properties and phenomena of something. plural noun: physics the physics of plasmas.
Energy has many forms-terms contributing to the total energy-that are more concrete than the concept of energy itself. But the very strength of the concept of energy is that it is universal and not concrete: one may convert energy from one form to another. Well energy is only a part of something else that is much more important, and that is called Action. There is a bumper sticker that reads Physics is where the Action is. One of the most important quantities in the universe is Planck's constant, and it has the units of action.
Physical capital refers to any manufactured one that is applied production, such as machinery, buildings, or vehicles, which is one of the three primary factors of production … (the other two are land and labor/workforce). Physical capital: Can be of fixed capital and working capital. 
Origin: late 15th century (denoting natural science in general, especially the Aristotelian system): plural of obsolete physic ‘physical (thing’), suggested by Latin physica, Greek phusika ‘natural things’ from phusis ‘nature’. Thanks to 'glance' and 'PhotonicBoom' for help on getting this answer. The subject matter of physics includes mechanics, heat, light and other radiation, sound, electricity, magnetism, and the structure of atoms. the physical properties and phenomena of something. plural noun: physics the physics of plasmas.
Etymology. Physics comes from the Greek word physika, which refers to things relating to nature. A more in-depth etymology suggests that the word implied the episteme, or science of nature. According to Encyclopedia Britannica the word physics describes the science that deals with the structure of matter as well as the interactions between the different parts of the universe. The encyclopedic definition also mentions that physics is the most basic physical science.
The product of the mass of a body into the square of its velocity may properly be termed its energy. The very name energy, though first used in its present sense by Dr Thomas Young about the beginning of this century, has only come into use practically after the doctrine which defines it had ... See also: Energy and society and Energy policy. The word energy derives from Greek ἐνέργεια (energeia), which appears for the first time in the work Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle in the 4th century BCE. Thomas Young-the first to use the term energy in the modern sense.
Yes I believe so. Physics comes from the greek word φύση which means Nature and φυσικός (physikos) means natural or environmental (also in modern greek its work for a physist. Aristotle established the word's modern scientific meaning. The English word abacus (Late 14th century) comes to us from the Latin word abacus, which came from the Greek word abax or abakos, meaning counting table. This derives from … the Hebrew word abaq dust, from the root a-b-q, to fly off.
The primary Webster's Dictionary definition of the word physics states that it is the science that deals with matter, force, motion and energy. The secondary definition refers to defining the physical properties, processes, composition or phenomena of a system or thing. According to Encyclopedia Britannica the word physics describes the science that deals with the structure of matter as well as the interactions between the different parts of the universe. The encyclopedic definition also mentions that physics is the most basic physical science.
The word physics is usually used to refer to the body of science that explains matter, force, motion and energy. The word physics has a long history that can be traced back to the ancient Greeks, but physics is a more recent term for the field of study referred to for a long time as natural philosophy.. According to Encyclopedia Britannica the word physics describes the science that deals with the structure of matter as well as the interactions between the different parts of the universe. The encyclopedic definition also mentions that physics is the most basic physical science.