Lula Northeast Georgia Mountains. Zip through the trees in Lula at North Georgia Canopy Tours, play disc golf or simply enjoy the outdoors at Rafe Banks Park. Visit Crocker Pottery and the Georgia Folk Pottery Center to find unique handmade items, and plan to attend the annual RailRoad Days festival in May. The age-old craft of hand-made Georgia Folk Pottery all but vanished in the last century. It is being carried on at Crocker Pottery and the Georgia Folk Pottery Center In Lula, Georgia. Few folk potters remain to keep the old-timy ways and skills alive.
While in Lula, visit Crocker Pottery and the Georgia Folk Pottery Center, and Blind Suzie Bridge, also known as the Lula Bridge. Plan to visit in May when the annual RailRoad Days festival is held. The age-old craft of hand-made Georgia Folk Pottery all but vanished in the last century. It is being carried on at Crocker Pottery and the Georgia Folk Pottery Center In Lula, Georgia. Few folk potters remain to keep the old-timy ways and skills alive.
Crocker Pottery Georgia Folk Pottery Center. The age-old craft of hand-made Georgia Folk Pottery all but vanished in the last century. It is being carried on at Crocker Pottery and the Georgia Folk Pottery Center In Lula, Georgia. Few folk potters remain to keep the old-timy ways and skills alive.
Local news for Lula, GA continually updated from thousands of sources on the web. 
Lula-area historical tornado activity is near Georgia state average. It is 34% greater than the overall U.S. average. On 4/3/1974, a category F4 (max. wind speeds 207-260 mph) tornado 27.7 miles away from the Lula city center killed 6 people and injured 30 people and caused between $500,000 and $5,000,000 in damages. Races in Lula detailed stats: ancestries, foreign born residents, place of birth. Mar. 2013 cost of living index in Lula: 95.4 (near average, U.S. average is 100). Recent posts about Lula, Georgia on our local forum with over 1,800,000 registered users.
thecityoflula@mindspring.com. Rafe Banks Park is located in Lula. This park offers visitors nature trails, outdoor picnic areas and sports fields. 
You can view Lula venues that host many Lula GA events every year. You can find a ton of properties for sale if you search the Lula page on Zillow. Interest rates for Lula are at historic lows as well. Lula Georgia has a latitude of 34.3954 and a longitude of -83.6854. Lula Assembly Of Praise. We are a fellowship, a body of believers trying to be more like Jesus everyday. We are a group of caring individuals, who want to help make disciples of all men, women, boys and girls, and share the Gospel of the Lord Jesus with everyone we meet. Lula Assembly of Praise ...
Grocery Stores in Lula? (1 reply). Latest news from Lula, GA collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: United States (12.2%), English (12.0%), Irish (10.4%), German (6.1%), Dutch (1.3%), Italian (1.1%). Races in Lula detailed stats: ancestries, foreign born residents, place of birth. Mar. 2013 cost of living index in Lula: 95.4 (near average, U.S. average is 100). Recent posts about Lula, Georgia on our local forum with over 1,800,000 registered users.
Why Movoto Is Better. Movoto provides every Lula real estate listing that's currently for sale. Because Movoto is a licensed brokerage, we have access to the most up-to-date data on single family homes for sale in Lula, GA and across Georgia. If you're looking to get more information on the 31 homes for sale in Lula, check out our detailed graphs and charts with this city's market trends
Lula is a city in Hall and Banks counties in the U.S. state of Georgia. Most of the city is in Hall County, with a small eastern portion of the city located in Banks County. The population was 2,758 at the 2010 census. The Hall County portion of Lula is part of the Gainesville, GA Metropolitan Statistical Area. Lula is home of RailRoad Days, a yearly festival usually every May. Major roads near Lula are Georgia Highway 51, Georgia Highway 52, Georgia Highway 365, U.S. Route 23, and old US 23