schwa noun [C]. › the ​weak ​vowel ​sound in some ​syllables that is not ​emphasized, such as the first ​syllable of about and the second ​syllable of given, or the ə ​symbol that ​represents this ​sound. (Definition of schwa from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
schwa noun [C]. › the ​weak ​vowel ​sound in some ​syllables that is not ​emphasized, such as the first ​syllable of about and the second ​syllable of given, or the ə ​symbol that ​represents this ​sound. (Definition of schwa from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
schwa. n. 1. A mid-central neutral vowel, typically occurring in unstressed syllables, as the final vowel of English sofa. 2. The symbol (ə) used to represent an unstressed neutral vowel and, in some systems of phonetic transcription, a stressed mid-central vowel, as in but. schwa. n. 1. (Phonetics & Phonology) a central vowel represented in the International Phonetic Alphabet by (ə). The sound occurs in unstressed syllables in English, as in around, mother, and sofa. 2. (Phonetics & Phonology) the symbol (ə) used to represent this sound.
Definition of SCHWA for Kids. 1. : an unstressed vowel that is the usual sound of the first and last vowels of the English word America. 2. : the symbol ə commonly used for a schwa and sometimes also for a similarly pronounced stressed vowel (as in cut). : an unstressed mid-central vowel (as the usual sound of the first and last vowels of the English word America). 2. : the symbol ə used for the schwa sound and less widely for a similarly articulated stressed vowel (as in cut). See schwa defined for English-language learners.
Full Definition of SCHWA. 1. : an unstressed mid-central vowel (as the usual sound of the first and last vowels of the English word America). 2. : the symbol ə used for the schwa sound and less widely for a similarly articulated stressed vowel (as in cut). See schwa defined for English-language learners.
noun. Schwa is a vowel sound in an unstressed syllable, or the phonetic symbol ə which is the International Phonetic Alphabet symbol for schwa. An unstressed syllable in a word, such as the a syllable in ago, is an example of schwa. noun. 1  A mid-central neutral vowel, typically occurring in unstressed syllables, as the final vowel of English sofa. 2  The symbol (&schwa;) used to represent an unstressed neutral vowel and, in some systems of phonetic transcription, a stressed mid-central vowel, as in but.
In linguistics, specifically phonetics and phonology, schwa (/ʃwɑː/) (sometimes spelled shwa) refers to the mid-central vowel sound (rounded or unrounded) in the middle of the vowel chart, denoted by the IPA symbol ə, or another vowel sound close to that position. Schwa in English is mainly found in unstressed positions, but in some other languages it occurs more frequently as a stressed vowel. In relation to certain languages, the name schwa and the symbol ə may be used for some other unstressed and toneless neutral vowel, not necessarily mid-central