Sulfasalazine is a Disease Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drug (DMARD). It is used for the treatment of Rheumatoid arthritis, Psoriatic arthritis, and many other types of arthritis. 
DISEASE-MODIFYING ANTIRHEUMATIC DRUG OVERVIEW. Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are a group of medications commonly used in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. They work to decrease pain and inflammation, to reduce or prevent joint damage, and to preserve the structure and function of the joints
Fast Facts. 1  Sulfasalazine is a drug used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and some other autoimmune conditions. 2  It helps with pain and swelling and also slows the progression of arthritis over time. 3  It should be held if there are signs or symptoms of an infection. Sulfasalazine is a DMARD. DMARDs work to decrease pain and inflammation, reduce/prevent joint damage, and preserve joint mobility. So, Sulfasalazine treats swelling, pain and stiffness in arthritis. However, it is not entirely clear how this medication works for rheumatoid arthritis
Sulfasalazine — Sulfasalazine is used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and of arthritis associated with ankylosing spondylitis and inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease). It is not clear how sulfasalazine works. Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are a group of medications commonly used in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. They work to decrease pain and inflammation, to reduce or prevent joint damage, and to preserve the structure and function of the joint
Why It Is Used. Sulfasalazine is used for early, milder cases of rheumatoid arthritis. It may be used with other medicines such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) for more active rheumatoid arthritis. People who have sulfa or salicylate allergies should not use this medicine.
1 Sulfasalazine is a drug used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and some other autoimmune conditions. 2  It helps with pain and swelling and also slows the progression of arthritis over time. 3  It should be held if there are signs or symptoms of an infection. Sulfasalazine is a DMARD. DMARDs work to decrease pain and inflammation, reduce/prevent joint damage, and preserve joint mobility. So, Sulfasalazine treats swelling, pain and stiffness in arthritis. However, it is not entirely clear how this medication works for rheumatoid arthritis
A: Sulfasalazine affects substances in the body that causes inflammation, tissue damage, and diarrhea. It is can be used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in children and adults who have received other arthritis medications (salicylates and NSAIDs) without successful treatment of symptoms. Sulfasalazine is used to treat moderate to severe ulcerative colitis. Sulfasalazine is also used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in children and adults who have used other arthritis medicines
Sulfasalazine is also known as a disease modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD), because it not only decreases the pain and swelling of arthritis, but also may prevent damage to joints. In addition, it may reduce the risk of long term loss of function. Sulfasalazine is a DMARD. DMARDs work to decrease pain and inflammation, reduce/prevent joint damage, and preserve joint mobility. So, Sulfasalazine treats swelling, pain and stiffness in arthritis. However, it is not entirely clear how this medication works for rheumatoid arthritis