Corporate Center. In the summer of 2007, a new Central Arizona College center opened on Interstate 10 in Casa Grande, midway between Tucson and Phoenix. The center is designed to host a wide range of conferences, educational classes and training seminars needed for the exploding population in Pinal County and the central Arizona region. The center is a hub for businesses and economic growth, as well as home to the college’s Small Business Development Center. Corporate Center (Casa Grande) - Home of Weekend College. Fall/Spring Semester Hours of Operation*:
Answers. Best Answer: A corporate center is the headquarters of a corporation. It houses senior management and support functions that help management do its job. A second definition might be from real estate: certain business parks call themselves corporate centers. Most do not house corporate headquarters. 
The Corporate Center, formerly known as the Union Carbide Corporate Center, is an architecturally unique building in Danbury, Connecticut. Constructed in 1982 as the headquarters of the Union Carbide chemical company, it is known for its unusual style and floorplan layout. 
Welcome to The Corporate Center. Please note that as of April 10 we are no longer in the Parcel Pickup business. We have sold that arm of the company to Strader Ferris International (SFI). SFI is locate across the road right behind our former location. Their website is here: www.myusaddress.ca. There is no need for concern or worry-the parcels and files that we had on hand as of April 10 have been transferred to them and inventoried in their computerized system. Any packages that are shipped to 812 Proctor Avenue are being automatically delivered to them as part of the sale of this part of our business
Bank of America Corporate Center, the tallest skyscraper between Philadelphia and Atlanta. Since its completion, the Bank of America Corporate Center has been the world headquarters for what is now Bank of America. 
Corporate Business Center is a 62 acre mixed-use business park located in the City of Loma Linda. First class office and industrial buildings are landscaped by mature trees and citrus groves. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Corporate Headquarters'. A business' corporate headquarters is not necessarily the location where the majority of its employees work. Offices of a business that are not the corporate headquarters are called branch offices. In the vernacular, corporate headquarters may be referred to simply as corporate. A place where a company's executive offices and executives' direct support staff are located. Corportate headquarters is considered a business' most prestigious location. A corporation's headquarters may also bring prestige to the city it is located in and help attract other businesses to the area.
At the heart of these paradoxes lies the role of the corporate centre and the value they bring to the business. Whether at corporate or operational levels, many business leaders privately admit that their other big challenge is managing the internal relationship between the “spokes” and the “hub”. 
Corporate Event Centre at CHSI provides unparalleled service to clients in the market for meeting, training, conference and event rental space. Our facility is open to the public, with the ability to accommodate groups from 8 288. 