nephron. the structural and functional unit of the kidney, each nephron being capable of forming urine by itself. The nephron consists of the renal corpuscle, the proximal convoluted tubule, the descending and ascending limbs of the loop of Henle, the distal convoluted tubule, and the collecting tubule. Each kidney is an aggregation of about a million nephrons. The renal corpuscles and the convoluted parts of the renal tubules are located in the cortex of the kidney. The loops of Henle and collecting tubules are located in the medulla. Urine is formed in the renal corpuscles and renal tubules by filtration, reabsorption, and secretion. See also kidney, malpighian corpuscle. The functional anatomic unit of the kidney, which consists of a glomerulus, convoluted tubules and a loop of Henle (nephron loop)
A nephron eliminates wastes from the body, regulates blood volume and blood pressure, controls levels of electrolytes and metabolites, and regulates blood pH. Cortical nephrons have their Loop of Henle in the renal medulla near its junction with the renal cortex, while the Loop of Henle of juxtamedullary nephrons is located deep in the renal medulla; they are called juxtamedullary because their renal corpuscle is located near the medulla (but still in the cortex).
(June 2011). The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. Cortical nephrons have their Loop of Henle in the renal medulla near its junction with the renal cortex, while the Loop of Henle of juxtamedullary nephrons is located deep in the renal medulla; they are called juxtamedullary because their renal corpuscle is located near the medulla (but still in the cortex).
Kidney Reabsorption. Once inside the lumen of the nephron, small molecules, such as ions, glucose and amino acids, get reabsorbed from the filtrate: 1  Specialized proteins called transporters are located on the membranes of the various cells of the nephron. 2  These transporters grab the small molecules from the filtrate as it flows by them. By the end of the stream, most of the fish have been caught. This is what happens as the filtrate travels through the nephron. Two major factors affect the reabsorption process: 1  Concentration of small molecules in the filtrate-the higher the concentration, the more molecules can be reabsorbed.
This tutorial explores the function of the nephron, in particular: Filtration, Reabsorption, Secretion and Excretion. This video explains the solutes involved and how they are processed by the nephron. 
Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle ) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. Cortical nephrons have their Loop of Henle in the renal medulla near its junction with the renal cortex, while the Loop of Henle of juxtamedullary nephrons is located deep in the renal medulla; they are called juxtamedullary because their renal corpuscle is located near the medulla (but still in the cortex).
Function of Nephron. The nephron is the basic functional and structural unit found in the kidneys. Its main functions include regulating the concentration of sodium salts and water by filtering the kidney’s blood, excreting any excess in the urine and reabsorbing the necessary amounts. Function of Nephron. The main functions of the nephron are related to filtering, reabsorbing and secreting glutamate, carbohydrates and solutes. The glomerulus has two cell layers as well as a basement membrane that separate it from the Bowman’s capsule. This basement membrane contains collagen and glycoprotein fibers.
Each nephron is made of a tubule and is responsible for ‘cleaning’ the blood by removing urea [urea: A nitrogenous waste product resulting from the breakdown of proteins. It is excreted in urine.] and excess water and mineral ions. How the kidney works. This process takes place in stages: 