GENERAL DESCRIPTION: Megestrol is a synthetic progesterone used in dogs to treat false pregnancies and postpone heat cycles. It may be used in cats to treat various behavior problems (ex. inter-male aggression, inappropriate urination, aggression towards people). It is also used to treat some skin conditions. Not for use in pregnant animals.
1 Megestrol Acetate, also known as Ovaban® and Megace®, is used in dogs and in cats to control heat cycles. 2  Megestrol has also been used to treat behavior and skin conditions in cats. 3  Megestrol acetate is similar to the naturally occurring hormone progesterone. 1 Megestrol acetate belongs to a class of drugs known as progestins. 2  Megestrol Acetate, also known as Ovaban® and Megace®, is used in dogs and in cats to control heat cycles. 3  Megestrol has also been used to treat behavior and skin conditions in cats.
1 Megestrol acetate is used in humans patients as a palliative treatment for some breast and uterine cancers. 2  In animals, it is used to treat dogs with certain reproductive problems. 3  An extra-label use is treatment of behavioral/skin problems in cats. 1 Megestrol acetate belongs to a class of drugs known as progestins. 2  Megestrol Acetate, also known as Ovaban® and Megace®, is used in dogs and in cats to control heat cycles. 3  Megestrol has also been used to treat behavior and skin conditions in cats.
Megestrol acetate is used to postpone estrus and alleviate false pregnancy. It may be used in cats to treat behavior problems (e.g. inter-male aggressive behavior, urine spraying, aggression towards people). It has also been used to treat a variety of skin conditions.
Uses of Megestrol Acetate for Dogs and Cats. 1  Megestrol acetate is used in dogs and in cats to control heat cycles (estrus) and in bitches to treat false pregnancy. 2  Extra-label uses of megestrol acetate include treatment of certain behavioral and skin problems in cats. 1 Megestrol acetate belongs to a class of drugs known as progestins. 2  Megestrol Acetate, also known as Ovaban® and Megace®, is used in dogs and in cats to control heat cycles. 3  Megestrol has also been used to treat behavior and skin conditions in cats.
Dosage [edit]. Megestrol acetate is available as 5 mg, 20 mg and 40 mg tablets and in oral suspensions of 125 mg/ml and 40 mg/ml. It is used at a dose of 5 mg in combination with an estrogen for contraception. Appetite stimulation is achieved with doses ranging from 400 mg to 800 mg a day. 
We consider ovariohysterectomy the safest method of birth control in dogs and cats at this time and do not consider this an appropriate choice in most cases. Progestin in the form of megestrol acetate (Ovaban) is used to postpone heat cycles in dogs and as a treatment for false pregnancy. It has also been used to treat certain skin conditions in cats. Because of its severe side effects, and the availablity of other therapies, Ovaban should only be used as a last resort. 
1 Megestrol acetate is used in dogs and in cats to control heat cycles (estrus) and in bitches to treat false pregnancy. 2  Extra-label uses of megestrol acetate include treatment of certain behavioral and skin problems in cats. 3  Megestrol can be used to treat benign prostatic hypertrophy in male dogs. 1 Megestrol acetate belongs to a class of drugs known as progestins. 2  Megestrol Acetate, also known as Ovaban® and Megace®, is used in dogs and in cats to control heat cycles. 3  Megestrol has also been used to treat behavior and skin conditions in cats.
Gosselin Y, Chalifoux A, Papageorges M. Twenty-one cats were treated with megestrol acetate because they were showing clinical signs associated with one of the following problems: eosinophilic ulcer, eosinophilic plaque, neurodermatitis, endocrine alopecia and miliary dermatitis. 