Crotalus horridus. Photo by Lisa Powers. Description: Typical timber rattlesnakes measure anywhere from 36-58 inches (91-147 cm) in length with Klauber (1956) reporting the largest timber rattlesnake ever recorded to be 74 inches (189.23 cm) collected near New Orleans, LA in the 1940 s. Originally found in 30 states, it has been extirpated from Delaware, Maine, and Rhode Island. The species is listed as endangered in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Ohio, Texas, Vermont, and Virginia and threatened in Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, New York, and Texas. Timber rattlesnakes are protected in Kansas, Maryland, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin
Rattlesnakes are a group of venomous snakes of the genera Crotalus and Sistrurus of the subfamily Crotalinae (pit vipers). The 36 known species of rattlesnakes have between 65 and 70 subspecies, all native to the Americas, ranging from southern Alberta and southern British Columbia in Canada to Central Argentina. Rattlesnakes are predators that live in a wide array of habitats, hunting small animals such as birds and rodents.
The timber rattlesnake occurs in the eastern and central United States. Minnesota is on the northwestern periphery of its range, which extends north along the Mississippi River from Illinois to Minnesota. Surveys for timber rattlesnakes in Minnesota have been funded and coordinated by a collaborative effort of the Minnesota DNR Nongame Wildlife Program (NWP), Division of Parks, and Minnesota Biological Survey for almost 20 years. Formal surveys began in 1990-1991 at 6 southeastern Minnesota State Parks.
Description. Measuring from 3-4.5 feet (91-137 cm) or more in length, the timber rattlesnake is the largest venomous snake in New York. The record length is 74 ½ inches (189 cm). Timber rattlers impress one as being very stocky; they are large snakes. Despite their size, cryptic coloration allows them to be easily concealed
The timber rattlesnake is listed as endangered in New Jersey, Vermont, Massachusetts (along with the copperhead viper), Virginia, New Hampshire, Indiana, and Ohio, and it is threatened in New York, Connecticut, Illinois, Minnesota, and Texas. Most adult timber rattlesnakes found measure less than 100 to 115 cm (39 to 45 in) in total length and weigh on average between 500 and 1,500 g (1.1 and 3.3 lb), often being towards the lower end of that weight range. The maximum reported total length is 189.2 cm (74.5 in) (Klauber, 1956).
The largest populations of timber rattlesnakes occur in the remote, heavily forested regions of Pennsylvania, and the state Wildlife Action Plan recognizes the state's responsibility in maintaining viable populations of native species. 1 It is unlawful to hunt, take or kill timber rattlesnakes (even with a valid timber rattlesnake collection permit) west of Route 15 and south of interstate 81 to the Maryland line. 2  Therefore, there is no open season for timber rattlesnake collection in the Michaux State Forest.
Appearance. The timber rattlesnake (Croatus horridus) is the largest of the three species of venomous snakes found in Pennsylvania (the other two venomous species are the northern copperhead and the endangered Massasauga rattlesnake). In northern portions of their distribution, timber rattlesnakes are most commonly found in mountainous areas in which there are numerous rocks and rock crevices or in dense, thick mixed forest sites. In the southern portions of their distribution, timber rattlesnakes are often found in swampy, marshy habitats.