Emma Ross-Stuart pretends to fall in love with Emma in order to make Zuri jealous and want him back to herself. In the end of Quitting Cold Koala, Stuart reveals that Emma means nothing to him in terms of a love interest. Emma also seems to be annoyed by his tactics and personality, but they eventually become friends. Stuart Wooten is a little boy who is in love with Zuri. He is a wiz with history and knows his facts.
It is also revealed that Doreen is terrified of rodents (in  Stuart At The Pet Shop ), and when Stuart found out, he placed the rat on her hair, which caused Doreen to scream for it to be taken off. Stuart's childhood traumas (such as his father leaving the family) are often mentioned. Stuart likes to show off, but would reluctantly do what his skinny, crazy, loud, overbearing, borderline alcoholic Wisconsin-accented mother, Doreen Larkin, tells him. Stuart is known for eating a lot of junk food.
Stuart is a traditionally masculine given name as well as a surname. It is the French form of the surname Stewart. The French form of the surname was brought to Scotland from France by Mary Stuart, in the 16th century. The surname Stewart is an occupational name for the administrative official of an estate. The name is derived from the Middle English stiward, and Old English stigweard, stiweard.
Hobbie Stuart. Hobbie Stuart is an English singer-songwriter and musician hailing from Brighton. Real name Roberto Stuart da Cunha Lima, he would originally find fame after uploading cover versions of tracks like Adele's Someone Like You, Maroon 5 s Payphone, and Rihanna s Only Girl (In The World) amongst others. We don't have any Hobbie Stuart tour dates, events or tickets listed here at the present time. If you'd like to be kept informed when new Hobbie Stuart tour dates are announced, please set up a tour alert above or you can sign up for our weekly tour newsletter here.
booboolove123 said: Boo boo is not his real name, he got the nickname when he was a baby because he used to suck his two fingers and he had a boo boo face so his mom gave him the name boo boo and it stuck with him all his life. His birth name is Nils Allen Stewart jr. posted over a year ago. 
How We Got Our Name. Stuarts Draft, one of Augusta county's oldest settlements, derives its name from the son of a British fugitive and a local geographic feature. Stuart was the family name of the offspring of a Scottish dessident who came to settle the area in the 1730's after fleeing religious persecution in Britain. Records in the Augusta County Courthouse indicate Thomas Stuart, Archibald's son obtained a deed for 353 acres in the Stuarts Draft in 1749. He is acknowledged as Stuarts Draft's founder. The name Stuarts Draft was first used nearly 100 years later in 1837, when a post office opened. The origin of the term Draft is disputed
Hobbie Stuart. September 15 at 11:30am ·. New cover of Justin Bieber hope you like it x. Justin Bieber What Do You Mean CoverHello my friends here's a little cover of 'What Do You Mean by Justin Bieber a lot of people asked for this so I thought I'd do it for you. Helloooo everyone Man Up have asked me to do my own version of the Elbow track 'What Time Do You Call This' which is taken from the film 'Man Up' out next we...
Stuart Minkus is a recurring character in Girl Meets World. Minkus was also a main character in Season 1 of Boy Meets World, but disappeared until the final episode of season five, Graduation. In Boy Meets World, Minkus was Cory, and Topanga 's classmate back in elementary school. 
Stuart Little is a 1999 American family comedy film directed by Rob Minkoff. It is loosely based on the novel of the same name by E. B. White. It combines live action and computer animation. 