susquehanna river at safe harbor dam in conestoga p.a...or the conestoga feeding into the susquehanna... My mom and i taking the dogs for a walk. Harley and Sarah dog. local relaxation. 
In the Maps and Aerial Photos section below, you'll find links to: (1) Local area photos around Safe Harbor Dam, (2) A listing of the nearest hotels to Safe Harbor Dam and (3) Driving Directions to Safe Harbor Dam from almost anywhere. The location of Safe Harbor Dam is marked on an interactive map. Safe Harbor Dam is a cultural feature (dam) in Lancaster County. The primary coordinates for Safe Harbor Dam places it within the PA 17516 ZIP Code delivery area
Fortunately, the shoreline below the Safe Harbor Dam where the eagles are congregating is open to the public, readily accessible and will give you a ringside seat to the eagle extravaganza. The parking area below the dam on Powerhouse Road, just off of River Road near Conestoga, lines the riverbank. Thanks to ice that has covered much of the Susquehanna River, overwintering eagles have flocked to the clear water below the dam, fighting over fish and hanging out in trees. “This is definitely not a usual occurrence,” observes Epler, who was birding in the county that day and just stopped by the dam on a whim.
Welcome to Harbor Woods Boarding Kennel. We are located on ten wooded acres overlooking the Susquehanna River near the Safe Harbor Dam in southern Lancaster County. 
Bald eagles fly into trees near the Safe Harbor Dam on Thursday. If you’ve ever wanted to see a bunch of eagles at one time in Lancaster County, this is your chance. Thanks to ice that has covered much of the Susquehanna River, overwintering eagles have flocked to the clear water below the dam, fighting over fish and hanging out in trees. “This is definitely not a usual occurrence,” observes Epler, who was birding in the county that day and just stopped by the dam on a whim.
Safe Harbor Dam is still one of three operating hydroelectric dams on the Susquehanna River. With transportation and technology advances the Village is no longer relied upon for employee housing. The Village at Safe Harbor is situated in Conestoga Township, just north of the Safe Harbor Dam and just east of the Safe Harbor Recreation Area.
Description. Safe Harbor Dam is a dam located just 5.7 miles from Millersville, in Lancaster County, in the state of Pennsylvania, United States, near Lockport, PA. 
Lake Clarke boaters...buoys have been placed 1500' upriver of the Safe Harbor dam, these buoys mark restricted water....Boats must stay outside the buoy line. The Washington Boro area is reported to be shallower as the result of silting. Watercraft users are urged to use extreme caution in this area. The Safe Harbor tailrace areas are open to the public from dawn to dusk. Holtwood s Lake Aldred elevation is scheduled to be regulated between 169.2 and 167.5. There is no spill scheduled at Holtwood Dam Wednesday and Thursday. Spill begins at elevation 169.75.
LS Power Group purchased PPL's share in 2011 and was subsequently purchased in March 2014 by Brookfield Renewable Inc. In May 2014, Brookfield purchased Exelon's share, gaining full ownership. The Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation operates the dam and power plant. Safe Harbor can generate 417.5 megawatts of hydroelectric power. Power from Safe Harbor is dispatched through PJM Interconnection, one of many regional transmission organizations feeding the nations power grids.