A $15.00 charge is required for each transcript ordered to cover the expense of the transcript and the servicer’s service charge, except for transcripts that will be picked up at the UCF main campus or a regional campus. The charge for a transcript to be picked up is $10. The charge for a FedEx delivery is $40 ($15 for the transcript + $25 for FedEx) . This is a flat rate for delivery anywhere in the U.S. For FedEx International delivery, the charge is $55 ($15 for the transcript + $40 for FedEx International) . FedEx will not deliver to Post Office Boxes or any other Box address.
An unofficial transcript can ONLY be issued to students with financial bars. The cost is $10 per copy. An unofficial transcript lists all of a student's coursework but does not include the university seal or signature of the registrar. Unofficial transcripts cannot be released to a third party. How to order an unofficial transcript. Transcripts may be ordered in person; by proxy; or by mail, fax, or email with our signed PDF order form. The cost is $10 per unofficial transcript. Unofficial transcripts ONLY for barred students print overnight to be available for pick up within two (2) business days after 10 a.m.; written requests received by mail, fax or email will be mailed directly to the student by standard U.S. mail within five (5) business days
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It may take up to a week for you to request transcripts and have them issued to you by your school. Typically if you show up and request a transcript, they cannot complete the request in one day. (going in on Monday and getting a transcript for a Tuesday appointment) While actual processing time may vary by school, it is best to allow at least a week to get the transcrip
You may order a transcript prior to the degree posting to your transcript and choose the hold for degree option. The hold for degree option will only be available approximately one month prior to the end of the current term. The hold for degree option will be removed every term after degrees post to transcripts. 
Transcripts may be ordered and picked up at our front desk (Suite 110, Baker Building, 110 21st Avenue South) from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday (Central Time) upon presentation of a photo ID. Currently enrolled students may order transcripts through YES and pick them up in our office on the same day. 
Unofficial transcripts may be mailed directly to student within five business days or proxy may pick up unofficial transcript from our office within two business days. For pick up by proxy, fax signed proxy request form at least one day in advance to (512) 475-7681. How to order an unofficial transcript. Transcripts may be ordered in person; by proxy; or by mail, fax, or email with our signed PDF order form. The cost is $10 per unofficial transcript. Unofficial transcripts ONLY for barred students print overnight to be available for pick up within two (2) business days after 10 a.m.; written requests received by mail, fax or email will be mailed directly to the student by standard U.S. mail within five (5) business days
You may only obtain an unofficial transcript. All financial obligations to the university must be cleared before an official transcript will be issued. For information about your student account, please contact the Student Service Center, 2201 C.B. Hedgcock, 906-227-1221. 
We do not take requests for unofficial transcripts. You can only access unofficial transcripts from your Student Center if you are a current student. If you need assistance please contact the University Help Desk at: 559. 278.7000. Processing time for a transcript that is mailed or ordered online could take a minimum of 5 business days after the request is opened.