Although we include Bay Area Driving School, Inc. in our directory of driving schools for Baytown Texas, we cannot make any assurances about whether or not Bay Area Driving School, Inc. is certified by the Texas DMV. Bay Area Driving School, Inc. offers driving courses in Baytown Texas. For more information about the type of driver training Bay Area Driving School, Inc. offers and the training schedule, you should contact them directly.
Get behind the steering wheel of a MINI Countryman. Learn the correct way to handle all types of driving situations with our professional instructors. Drive down the roadway with complete confidence and understanding with our in-car lessons. DriversEd.com is the favorite choice of Baytown, Texas. Safe, easy to maneuver, and powerful, it is the perfect car to enhance your driving ability. We're the only driving school in Texas that has a fleet of MINIs for Texas behind-the-wheel lessons. We do it all when it comes to drivers training and behind-the-wheel lessons in Texas.
One thing to keep in mind, is that a lot of the newer shopping/restaurant areas of Houston are a bit of a drive from Baytown. Kemah is pretty close, but other than that, the Galleria, Woodlands, Katy, etc. are all at least 30 minutes to an hour away with no traffic. I've been through some pretty nice neighborhoods around Baytown (incl. Lakewood), and the Baytown Nature Center (former Brownwood subdivision) is a very neat parkland setting. However, what I've seen of the downtown area of Baytown left a lot to be desired...it looked practically abandoned to me.
my husband and i drove to houston from Phoenix area to check it out and see if this could possibly be a good place to live. i did searches here on city-data before bombarding with questions, and there were several comments made about how baytown is bad, or, not a good place to live, etc. but no one went into detail. I've been through some pretty nice neighborhoods around Baytown (incl. Lakewood), and the Baytown Nature Center (former Brownwood subdivision) is a very neat parkland setting. However, what I've seen of the downtown area of Baytown left a lot to be desired...it looked practically abandoned to me.
Since Bay Area Driving School, Inc. is a local driver training company in your area, it's a safe bet that Bay Area Driving School, Inc. will be motivated (or perhaps required) to teach its local customers how to drive on rough terrain. Bay Area Driving School, Inc. offers driving courses in Baytown Texas. For more information about the type of driver training Bay Area Driving School, Inc. offers and the training schedule, you should contact them directly.
That said, it's not a very expensive place to live, and all the big city stuff isn't that far away. Mont Belvieu is a country town turning into an exurb of sorts, with people commuting into Baytown or even to the Beaumont area as well as Houston. 08-02-2009, 08:51 AM. I've been through some pretty nice neighborhoods around Baytown (incl. Lakewood), and the Baytown Nature Center (former Brownwood subdivision) is a very neat parkland setting. However, what I've seen of the downtown area of Baytown left a lot to be desired...it looked practically abandoned to me.
A. Yes. School's out! Our Baytown Texas defensive driving course is available online, so you can take it right from the comfort of your own home. Our online defensive driving class is easy to navigate, even if you're not a computer whiz. Step 2: Place payment online or over the phone. Step 3: Start taking the course. The cost of this Baytown Texas defensive driving course is $25 which is the lowest in the state. You can complete this course over time or in one sitting. It’s entirely up to you. When you log back into the course, we’ll take you right back where you left off
Baytown is a city within Harris County and partially in Chambers County in the Gulf Coast region of the U.S. state of Texas. Located within the Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land metropolitan area, it lies along State Highway 146 and Interstate 10. It is the fourth-largest city within this metropolitan area. As of 2010, Baytown had a population of 71,802, and it had an estimated population of 76,127 in 2014. Baytown is served by Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County, Texas (METRO) express route 236 Maxey Road/Baytown during the rush hours, sending commuters to downtown Houston. Baytown is linked to Interstate 10 (see map) by State Highway 146 (Lanier Freeway) and Spur 330 (Decker Drive).