- 1466). David in bronze (Photo Credit: italiangerry [Flickr]). St. George (bronze copy of the marble original) (Photo Credit: Jastrow [ wiki ]). Unquestionably the greatest sculptor of the early Renaissance, Donatello [wiki] was born in Florence, though he traveled widely and was famous throughout Italy. 
Some of the greatest early Renaissance Sculpture was created by the artists Donatello, Gilberti and Leonardo's master Verrocchio. Click on the link to view their work. Early Masterpieces. Giovanni da Bologna became known simply as Giambologna (1529-1608). There are several fine examples in Florence. (Michelangelo's David being one of these). St Peters in Rome has work by Bernini and Michelangelo, and the gilded bronze papal altar is a must see. The square in front of the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence is known as the Piazza della Signoria.
Michelangelo Buonarroti was the greatest sculptor of the sixteenth century, and one of the greatest of all time. Michelangelo's renaissance sculptures. deserve their own page, click on the link to see his work. There are several fine examples in Florence. (Michelangelo's David being one of these). St Peters in Rome has work by Bernini and Michelangelo, and the gilded bronze papal altar is a must see. The square in front of the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence is known as the Piazza della Signoria.
The uncontested master of High Renaissance sculpture is Michelangelo, who divided his career between Florence (his native city) and Rome. Pieta is the jewel of his early work, while his masterpiece, David, is often considered the greatest sculpture of all time. His foremost late work may be Moses. One of Ghiberti's assistants, Donatello, became the greatest sculptor of the Early Renaissance. It was Donatello who finally revived classical statues (starting with Saint Mark), including equestrian statues (with Gattamelata, the first equestrian statue since antiquity).
Introduction. Michelangelo (1475-1564) was a sculptor, painter and architect widely considered to be one of the greatest artists of the Italian Renaissance period—and arguably of all time. His work demonstrated a blend of psychological insight, physical realism and intensity never before seen. A+E Networks. Michelangelo (1475-1564) was a sculptor, painter and architect widely considered to be one of the greatest artists of the Italian Renaissance period—and arguably of all time.
Michelangelo Buonarroti was considered the greatest living artist of his time. Michelangelo's genius was technical skill, understanding anatomy and movement, and an ability to show emotion in his art. He changed the course of painting and sculpture in Europe. 
Some of the greatest early Renaissance Sculpture was created by the artists Donatello, Ghiberti and Leonardo's master Verrocchio. Have a look at some examples of their work on this page. 
Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni (6 March 1475 – 18 February 1564) (. [mikeˈlandʒelo]), was an Italian sculptor, painter, architect, poet, and engineer of the High Renaissance who exerted an unparalleled influence on the development of Western art. Considered as the greatest living artist in his lifetime, he has since been held as one of the greatest artists of all time. Michelangelo, with Leonardo da Vinci and Raphael, is one of the three giants of the Florentine High Renaissance. Although their names are often cited together, Michelangelo was younger than Leonardo by 23 years, and older than Raphael by eight.
Michelangelo is widely considered the greatest artistic genius that ever lived — a man whose name has become synonymous with the word “masterpiece.” He was born Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni at Caprese, Italy and grew up in Florence, home of the Italian High Renaissance. 