Gastric sleeve surgery has its share of potential risks and complications. These risks must be weighed against the potential benefits of gastric sleeve surgery in minimizing the health risks associated with obesity, including diabetes, cardiovascular disease, arthritis and certain types of cancer.
Bariatric surgery, when combined with lifestyle and medical interventions, is a common and successful treatment modality in the obese patient. Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is one such procedure that has increased in popularity as a definitive bariatric operation.
Additional Gastric Sleeve Risks and Benefits. All surgeries have some risk, including gastric sleeve surgery. General risks associated with any surgery include the risk of developing a blood clot in the legs or lungs, pneumonia and death. These risks can occur in the first 30 to 90 days after surgery.
It is for reasons like this that I am such a strong advocate of prevention and lifestyle changes–these are the only true ways to improve your health. Okay, I found this page by typing in can gastric surgery cause stomach cancer. I have a friend who had gastric surgery in October.
Gastric banding. Gastric sleeve. Roux-en-Y bypass. There are in increasing number of procedures available that fall under the category of bariatric surgery. This is also increasing coverage for the procedures by insurance if certain criteria are met. Roux-en-Y is the most common form of surgery used.
Stomach cancer, also known as gastric cancer, is the accumulation of an abnormal (malignant, cancerous) group of cells that form a tumor in any part of the stomach. In most cases it refers to cancer that starts off in the mucus-producing cells on the lining of the inside of the stomach (adenocarcinoma).
Other gastric sleeve risks that can occur well after your surgery include weight regain, heartburn and vitamin deficiencies. Some patients who lose a substantial amount of weight experience emotional and social changes.
Bariatric surgery is intended for people who are 100 pounds or more overweight (with a Body Mass Index (BMI) of 40 or greater) and who have not had success with other, less risky weight loss therapies such as diet, exercise, and medications.
1 Age, diet, and stomach disease can affect the risk of developing gastric cancer. 2  Symptoms of gastric cancer include indigestion and stomach discomfort or pain. 3  Tests that examine the stomach and esophagus are used to detect (find) and diagnose