These include Fitzjones, Joan, Joanes, John and Joynes. Jones is one of the many variants of John, a name taken from the Hebrew language and found throughout Christendom. The Hebrew name Johanan meaning Jehovah has favoured, was usually Latinized in very early documents as Johannes. Not until about 1140 do we see it as Jones. The Welsh form was 'Ieuan', and the form 'Ioan' was adopted for the Welsh Authorized Version of the Bible, hence the frequency of the name Jones.
Jones Name Meaning. English and Welsh: patronymic from the Middle English personal name Jon(e) (see John). The surname is especially common in Wales and southern central England. In North America this name has absorbed various cognate and like-sounding surnames from other languages. You can find out where the majority of the Jones families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
Jones is a patronymic name that means 'son of John.'. A patronymic name meaning son of John, the given name John deriving from the Hebrew Yochanan meaning Jehovah has favoured.. Jones is a popular surname among European Christians, as the name John was bestowed in honor of St. John the Baptist and many other saints by the name John. Jones is the most common surname in Wales, where son of is denoted by the s ending. Child of John The origins of the surname Jones were derived from the first name of John (or Jon) through a naming convention called patronymics.
Jones is an uncommonly occurring given name for men but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#5 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Jones for boys. 
Distribution of Jones surname in Britain. It first appears on record as a surname in England in 1273 with the name Matilda Jones. Others put the first known record of the surname Jones as 1279, in Huntingdonshire, England. Jones remains the most popular surname in Wales, borne by 5.75% of the population. The frequency in England is lower, at 0.75%, making it the second most common surname, after Smith.
Jones is a surname of Welsh origins, meaning John's, as in John's son. It is most common in Wales and south central England. In Ireland the surname has been Gaelicized as MacSeoin. Jones remains the most popular surname in Wales, borne by 5.75% of the population. The frequency in England is lower, at 0.75%, making it the second most common surname, after Smith.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Matilda Jones, which was dated 1273, in the Hundred Rolls of Huntingdonshire, during the reign of King Edward 1st, known as The Hammer of the Scots, reigned 1272 - 1307. The surname as Jones, first appears on record in England in the latter part of the 13th Century, and also features as one of the most numerous settler names in Ireland, having been introduced in the wake of the Anglo-Norman Invasion of 1170.
The Origin and Meaning of the Surname Jones. Surnames came into general usage as a direct result of the Norman Conquest in 1066, and are to be found in the Domesday Book in 1086. The names themselves reflect the influence of earlier invaders the Celts, Romans, Anglo-Saxons and the Danes. The Hebrew name Johanan meaning Jehovah has favoured, was usually Latinized in very early documents as Johannes. Not until about 1140 do we see it as Jones. The Welsh form was 'Ieuan', and the form 'Ioan' was adopted for the Welsh Authorized Version of the Bible, hence the frequency of the 
The given name John derives from the Hebrew Yochanan meaning Jehovah has favored.. Jones is a popular surname among European Christians, as the name John was bestowed in honor of St. John the Baptist and many other saints by the name John. JOHNSON is a common English version of this surname. Jones is the most common surname in Wales, where son of is denoted by the s ending. Jones is also the second most common surname in Australia and England, and the fifth most common American surname. Surname Origin: English, Welsh