Grains are divided into 2 subgroups, Whole Grains and Refined Grains. Whole grains contain the entire grain kernel ― the bran, germ, and endosperm. Examples of whole grains include whole-wheat flour, bulgur (cracked wheat), oatmeal, whole cornmeal, and brown rice. Refined grains have been milled, a process that removes the bran and germ.
Many whole grains (thanks to the bran and germ) are loaded with B vitamins, magnesium, and other important nutrients. Because whole grains include the bran and germ of the grain, they must be stored a bit more carefully than their refined counterparts.
5 Types of Foods with Whole Grain. There are many healthy benefits of incorporating whole grain foods into your diet. Whole grain foods help lower the risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, obesity, and diabetes. Contrary to popular belief, foods that have whole grain do not add to weight gain.
Whole grains are packed with nutrients, including protein, fiber, B vitamins, antioxidants, and trace minerals (iron, zinc, copper, and magnesium). A diet rich in whole grains has been shown to reduce the risk of heart disease, type 2 diabetes, obesity, and some forms of cancer.
There are many healthy benefits of incorporating whole grain foods into your diet. Whole grain foods help lower the risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, obesity, and diabetes. Contrary to popular belief, foods that have whole grain do not add to weight gain.
Anatomy of a whole grain. Also called cereals, grains and whole grains are the seeds of grasses cultivated for food. Grains and whole grains come in many shapes and sizes, from large kernels of popcorn to small quinoa seeds.
1 Whole grains are either single foods, such as brown rice and popcorn, or ingredients in products, such as buckwheat in pancakes or whole wheat in bread. 2  Refined grains. 3  Refined grains are milled, a process that strips out both the bran and germ to give them a finer texture and extend their shelf life.
Whole foods can be divided into several categories: fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts, seeds, and grains. Examples of whole fruits and vegetables include apples, peaches, bananas, grapes, mangoes, figs, lemons, dandelion greens, kale, carrots, tomatoes, squash, eggplant, yams, and others.