Special Pay Overview. In addition to military basic pay, benefits, and allowances, members of the armed forces may also receive special pays and incentive pays depending on their career field or location. Special pays include hardship duty pay, foreign language pay, sea pay, special assignment pay, and flight pay. Unlike military allowances, special pay is taxable unless the member is earning the pay while in a designated combat zone.
Special and Incentive Pays. Basic pay and allowances are only a part of the military compensation picture. Many military members qualify for special pays and incentives that are part of the service's recruitment and retention efforts. Some compensate members for assignment to hazardous or difficult duty conditions. 
Report Abuse. Save pay is money that the military puts aside for you so when you get home you are not broke.it is usually about a hundred a month well thats what it was when my husband went. Source(s): army wife 12 years. bobalue7 · 7 years ago. I just got back from Iraq about 2 months ago, and I just noticed I have someting called save pay on my LES for almost 1,000 dollars. I do not know what this is, and I do not want to ahave to pay back the military for a mistake that they made. Follow.
This Site Might Help You. RE: What is SAVE pay on an Army LES? I just got back from Iraq about 2 months ago, and I just noticed I have someting called save pay on my LES for almost 1,000 dollars. I do not know what this is, and I do not want to ahave to pay back the military for a mistake that they made. Follow.
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Military category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Military jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. 
Best Answer: SAVE pay used to reflect pay that you are owed-not that you owe. However, recently it has been used as a place to annotate HDL or hardship pay. Ask your S1 to set up an appointment with finance so you can get it straightend out. I just got back from Iraq about 2 months ago, and I just noticed I have someting called save pay on my LES for almost 1,000 dollars. I do not know what this is, and I do not want to ahave to pay back the military for a mistake that they made. Follow.
1 Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS): BAS is meant to offset costs for a member's meals. 2  This allowance is based in the historic origins of the military in which the military provided room and board (or rations) as part of a member's pay. 3  This allowance is not intended to offset the costs of meals for family members. The payment on the 15th is known as mid month pay, and the pay on the 1st is end of month pay. (End of the month pay used to fall on the last day of the month, but in 1990 was moved one day to the 1st to save money in a fiscal year.).
United States Military Pay is money paid to members in the United States Armed Forces. The amount of pay may vary by the member's rank, time in the military, location duty assignment, and by some special skills the member may have. The payment on the 15th is known as mid month pay, and the pay on the 1st is end of month pay. (End of the month pay used to fall on the last day of the month, but in 1990 was moved one day to the 1st to save money in a fiscal year.).
For reasons unknown, Hardship Duty Location Pay (HDP-L), is listed on LES as Save Pay Save pay is something totally different (read link (1) below to learn about it), but in your case, that would be your Hardship Duty Location Pay. I just got back from Iraq about 2 months ago, and I just noticed I have someting called save pay on my LES for almost 1,000 dollars. I do not know what this is, and I do not want to ahave to pay back the military for a mistake that they made. Follow.
United States Military Pay is money paid to members in the United States Armed Forces. A member may be eligible for special pay and incentives depending on rating (MOS) and assignment (location and duty). 