Roundworms are a member of the nemathelminths phylum or group of animals. The hookworm, pinworm and trichinella are part of this group. They are more advanced than flatworms but less advanced than earthworms. They have thin round bodies, with none of the pieces or segments that earthworms have in their bodies. Roundworms live in salt water, fresh water and the soil. Many of them are harmful to man as they are parasites.
There are three types of symmetry in biology: Radial, bilateral, and asymmetry. Your son's teacher is most likely only concerned with the first two. Humans have bilateral symmetry. You can divide them into two equal parts. Starfish have radial symmetry. Earthworms may appear to have radial symmetry because of their cylindrical shape, but DON'T BE FOOLED! They actually have BILATERAL symmetry. This is because they have an up and down (dorsal and ventral), and front and back (andterior and posterior). Linus · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
What type of symmetry do earthworms have? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. Is there a commercial you appeared in that you prefer to keep locked in the vault of embarrassment forever? Type of annelid that includes the earthworm? What is an earthworm phylum and symmetry? What type of ... 
Animals With Bilateral Symmetry. Most creatures we see around us have bilateral symmetry. Examples are worms, insects, spiders, fish, birds and mammals, including humans. In evolution, bilateral symmetry was an important step toward the development of a head and the concentration of sensory organs. Animals With Radial Symmetry. Animals with radial symmetry tend to have a surface that contains a mouth at the center, and they can reach out in all directions to gather food for that mouth. They can be attached to a substrate, like the sea anemone, or floating, like jellyfish.
An animal with radial symmetry could be divided into equal portions from the center, in the same way that you could cut a pie into wedges. An animal with radial symmetry really has no right and left side or head and rear end. Radial symmetry is ideal for animals that do not move, so they can reach into their environment on all sides. Consider the starfish as an example of radial symmetry. Animals With Radial Symmetry. Animals with radial symmetry tend to have a surface that contains a mouth at the center, and they can reach out in all directions to gather food for that mouth. They can be attached to a substrate, like the sea anemone, or floating, like jellyfish.
More than one  line of symmetry through the central does not imply radial  symmetry. I vote for ans1 as an approximation, and ans2 as a more  detailed answer. The type of symmetry found in all adult achinoderms is B. Radial. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Judy Olmsted. 80,355 Contributions. Retired college science professor.
The symmetry of an earthworm is bilateral symmetry, which means only one line of symmetry. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Eliminating Worms in the Intestines Intestinal parasites can be caused by drinking contaminated water or eating contaminated food. The type of symmetry found in all adult achinoderms is B. Radial. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Judy Olmsted. 80,355 Contributions. Retired college science professor.
When you have finished this page, go to the Earthworms Quiz. Earthworms are the most highly developed worms. They are divided into segments or parts. They are found in salt and fresh water as well as in the soil. Earthworms are helpful to man as bait for fishing and more importantly, because they loosen the soil for roots to grow. There are 2700 species of earthworms. Earthworms have many enemies including animals that eat them and man who uses them
Report Abuse. If the left and right sides are almost like mirror images of each other, that is bilateral. If it is completely different like an amoeba or something, that is no symmetry. Then there is radial symmetry like a starfish has, but you didn't ask about that. 