Specialty Retail Stores. The ACSI has over a decade of experience analyzing customer satisfaction with specialty retail chains serving the U.S. consumer market. Specialty retail store industry clients can take advantage of ACSI's competitive and cross-industry benchmarking capabilities through two products: ACSI BenchmarkSM and ACSI DiagnosticSM.
Neil Kokemuller has been an active business, finance and education writer and content media website developer since 2007. He has been a college marketing professor since 2004. Kokemuller has additional professional experience in marketing, retail and small business. Prices are normally higher than those charged by discount retailers or more traditional department stores. Computers/electronics and fashion and apparel specialty stores are isolated as different retail sectors. Additionally, stores specializing in certain clothing styles and jewelry are not included in the retail-specialty category
The Small Specialty Retail Stores industry has a low to moderate level of capital intensity. IBISWorld estimates that for every dollar spent on wages, industry operators will spend $0.11 in capital investment. Shopping around: Consumers will turn to department stores and e-commerce, hampering industry growth. IBISWorld’s Small Specialty Retail Stores market research report provides the latest industry statistics and industry trends, allowing you to identify the products and customers driving revenue growth and profitability.
A women's clothing boutique may specialize in clothing that is worn at a particular type of social event. Some stores specialize in types of clothing. Many upscale boutiques specialize in trendy couture for women. Specialty stores may set up a storefront for a limited time in a shopping mall. For example, a store that exclusively sells cell phones or video games would be considered specialized. The definition for specialty store is actually somewhat loose. Sometimes, it includes chain retail stores that sell a specific brand of clothing or clothing that is manufactured specifically for that store.
Retail is the process of selling consumer goods and/or services to customers through multiple channels of distribution to earn a profit. Demand is created through diverse target markets and promotional tactics, satisfying consumers' wants and needs through a lean supply chain. 
A specialty store is a shop, usually retail, that offers specific and specialized types of items. These stores focus on selling a particular brand or a particular type of product. For example, a store that exclusively sells cell phones or video games would be considered specialized. The definition for specialty store is actually somewhat loose. Sometimes, it includes chain retail stores that sell a specific brand of clothing or clothing that is manufactured specifically for that store.
Show more usage examples... You may want to open up a specialty store if you notice that there is one missing from a major market area. 11 people found this helpful. I had to go to the specialty store in order to see what was happening with the owner, because he needed some help. 5 people found this helpful. Consumer outlets such as candle stores or photo shops that offer unique, often individualized products or a large amount of products within a particular grouping of consumer goods are considered to be specialty store s. 7 people found this helpful
The Retail-Specialty industry consists of companies engaged in the operation of stores and dealerships concentrated on a single product. The specialty industry includes car and truck dealerships, auto parts, home improvement, office supplies, books, kitchenwares, housewares, garden centers, toys, sporting equipment and other focused retail operations.
A car dealership is an example of a retail-specialty business. George Doyle/Stockbyte/Getty Images. In general, a specialized retailer is a business that sells goods to consumers from a particular product category. Prices are normally higher than those charged by discount retailers or more traditional department stores. Computers/electronics and fashion and apparel specialty stores are isolated as different retail sectors. Additionally, stores specializing in certain clothing styles and jewelry are not included in the retail-specialty