Definition. A common noun is a noun that's not the name of any particular person, place, or thing. A common noun represents one or all of the members of a class, and it can be preceded by the definite article (the). Contrast with proper noun. 
Full Definition of NOUN. : any member of a class of words that typically can be combined with determiners to serve as the subject of a verb, can be interpreted as singular or plural, can be replaced with a pronoun, and refer to an entity, quality, state, action, or concept. Tweet. : a word that is the name of something (such as a person, animal, place, thing, quality, idea, or action) and is typically used in a sentence as subject or object of a verb or as object of a preposition.
Main article: Noun phrase. A noun phrase is a phrase based on a noun, pronoun, or other noun-like word (nominal) optionally accompanied by modifiers such as determiners and adjectives. A noun phrase functions within a clause or sentence in a role such as that of subject, object, or complement of a verb or preposition. 
A noun or noun phrase can function as a subject, direct object, indirect object, complement, appositive, or object of a preposition. In addition, nouns sometimes modify other nouns to form compound nouns. See Examples and Observations below. A noun is traditionally defined as the part of speech (or word class) that names or identifies a person, place, thing, quality, or activity.
Definition. A noun is traditionally defined as the part of speech (or word class) that names or identifies a person, place, thing, quality, or activity. Adjective: nominal. Most nouns have both a singular and plural form, can be preceded by an article and/or one or more adjectives, and can serve as the head of a noun phrase
noun. noun \ˈnau̇n\. : a word or phrase that is the name of something (as a person, place, or thing) and that is used in a sentence especially as subject or object of a verb or as object of a preposition. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of noun. Tweet. : a word that is the name of something (such as a person, animal, place, thing, quality, idea, or action) and is typically used in a sentence
GRAMMAR. A noun is a part of speech that is used to name a person, place, thing, quality, or action. A noun can function as a subject, object, complement, appositive, or object of a preposition. Nouns can be singular or plural. The plural form of a noun is usually formed by adding s at the end of the noun
A noun is a word for a person, place, or thing. Everything we can see or talk about is represented by a word which names it. That naming word is called a noun. A noun is a word for a person, place, or thing. (You might like to think of nouns as naming words.).
Three little words you often see Are ARTICLES: a, an, and the. A NOUN's the name of anything, As: school or garden, toy, or swing. ADJECTIVES tell the kind of noun, As: great, small, pretty, white, or brown. 
noun. A word (other than a pronoun) used to identify any of a class of people, places, or things (common noun), or to name a particular one of these (proper noun). Example sentences. 1  Many English words can be nouns or verbs, with the exact same English spelling. 2  These children were asked to explain the meaning of some common Dutch and Turkish nouns in an extended word definition task.