Question and answer. 4. Modernist works could best be described as: Select all that apply. (Points: 2) pessimistic innovative derivative optimistic. Modernist works could best be described as: optimistic. 4. Modernist works could best be described as: Select all that apply. (Points: 2) pessimistic innovative derivative optimistic. Weegy: The correct answer is optimistic. (More). Question. Expert Answered.
Samuel Beckett, who died in 1989, has been described as a later modernist. Beckett is a writer with roots in the expressionist tradition of modernism, who produced works from the 1930s until the 1980s, including Molloy (1951), En attendant Godot (1953), Happy Days (1961) and Rockaby (1981).
Original conversation. User: 4. Modernist works could best be described as: Select all that apply. (Points: 2) pessimistic innovative derivative optimistic Weegy: A person described as perspicacious is A. smart and perceptive. Expert answered|wolflin29|Points 31|User: 5. Select all of the themes and subjects used by Realist writers. Select all that apply. (Points: 3) life in the city harshness of everyday life freedom of choice middle class people individualism Weegy: Modernist works could best be described as life in the city middle class people individualismExpert answered|wolflin29|Points 31|. Question. Asked 10/16/2012 2:37:56 PM.
Romanticism can best be described as. a) the first Modernist movement in painting because artists identified with the working class, sought to make work of their time, and prioritized stylistic innovation. b) developing in the 15th century and promoting the ideas and aesthetics of classical antiquity. Next. Romanticism can best be described as a) the first Modernist movement in painting because artists identified with the working class, sought to make work of their time, and prioritized stylistic innovation b) developing in the 15th century and promoting the ideas and aesthetics of classical...
Best Answer: 1). Modernist works could best be described as: Select all that apply, (HAS MORE THAN ONE ANSWER) A). pessimistic B). innovative C). derivative D). optimistic 2). Select all of the themes and subjects used by Realist writers. Select all that apply, (HAS MORE THAN ONE ANSWER) A). · just now. Report Abuse. 1. A kind of Modernist writing that was inspired by art of the time period was: Stream of consciousness 2. Modernist works could best be described as: innovative optimistic 3. Select all of the themes and subjects used by Realist writers.
Questions asked by the same visitor. 4. Modernist works could best be described as: Select all that apply. (Points: 2) pessimistic innovative derivative optimistic. Weegy: The correct answer is optimistic. (More). Question. Expert Answered.
Modernist works could best be described as: Select all that apply, (HAS MORE THAN ONE ANSWER) A). pessimistic B). innovative C). derivative D). optimistic 2). Select all of the themes and subjects used by Realist writers. · just now. Report Abuse. 1. A kind of Modernist writing that was inspired by art of the time period was: Stream of consciousness 2. Modernist works could best be described as: innovative optimistic 3. Select all of the themes and subjects used by Realist writers.