Appendicitis is a painful swelling of the appendix, a finger-like pouch connected to the large intestine. Appendicitis typically starts with a pain in the middle of your abdomen (tummy) that may come and go. Within hours the pain travels to the lower right-hand side, where the appendix usually lies, and becomes constant and severe.
Description of Grumbling appendix. Grumbling appendix (medical condition): Appendicitis is an inflammation of the appendix and can appear in an acute or chronic form. Acute appendicitis is a sudden severe ... more. 
Save. Grumbling appendix is an old term used to describe chronic appendicitis. Chronic appendicitis shares many qualities with acute appendicitis, which is the more common of the two conditions. Both involve the inflammation of the vermiform appendix resulting in pain and discomfort in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen. 
Although grumbling appendicitis has a slow onset, it can turn into acute appendicitis. If symptoms such as severe pain, nausea, vomiting, and a high fever occur, it is considered an emergency because the appendix may burst. Unlike acute appendicitis, which occurs rapidly and with a lot of pain, grumbling appendicitis starts off as mild pain and builds up over a period of weeks. The pain usually begins in the area of the umbilicus and gradually moves to the area between the top of the pelvic bone and the navel.
Appendicitis (also called epityphlitis) is inflammation of the appendix. Appendicitis commonly presents with right iliac fossa abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and decreased appetite. However, one third to a half of persons do not have these typical signs and symptoms. Appendicitis is caused by a blockage of the hollow portion of the appendix, most commonly by a calcified stone made of feces.
Grumbling appendix usually appears as having appendicitis-like symptoms but with no tests that prove it. (ie. you do not have an elevated white blood cell count, CT or ultrasound tests are negative). The pain feels like a knife stabbing, on the lower right side of your belly button. 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Grumbling appendicitis, more commonly referred to as chronic appendicitis, is characterized by mild pain in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen and is the result of inflammation of the appendix, a small extension of the colon. Unlike acute appendicitis, which occurs rapidly and with a lot of pain, grumbling appendicitis starts off as mild pain and builds up over a period of weeks. The pain usually begins in the area of the umbilicus and gradually moves to the area between the top of the pelvic bone and the navel.
This is unlike chronic appendicitis that can be treated slowly as and when realized. appendix symptoms. Symptoms of Grumbling Appendix. Mild to moderate pain in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen is the condition that defines grumbling appendix the best, with vomiting and nausea being its other probable symptoms. 
Grumbling appendix is an old term used to describe chronic appendicitis. Chronic appendicitis shares many qualities with acute appendicitis, which is the more common of the two conditions. Doctors are able to identify grumbling appendix by using a combination of approaches. First, the doctor localises the patient's pain, and checks that it is at or around the site of the appendix. The pain for grumbling appendix is chronic and mild to moderate in nature, not severe as found in acute
Best Answer: Grumbling appendix is an old term used to describe chronic appendicitis. Chronic appendicitis shares many qualities with acute appendicitis, which is the more common of the two conditions. Both involve the inflammation of the vermiform appendix resulting in pain and discomfort in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen. The difference between the two is that acute appendicitis requires immediate medical intervention and removal of the appendix, whereas chronic appendicitis does not.