Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Seeding is the process of connecting to a torrent when you have a complete file. Yes it is important to seed 1 to 1. The more seeders there are on a torrent the faster the torrent is. You are not downloading the torrent from the actual site you get it from. You are downloading it off another user that has it on their computer. seeding is uploading a complete file. yes, it is useful... yes you should maintain the share ratio above 1.0. It is more healthy for the torrent. Some torrent trackers have rules that you have to seed/upload over a certain amount or else they do unspeakable things to you.
If everyone just downloaded the file from the uploader and stopped seeding without seeding the torrent 1:1 then the uploader will always be stuck seeding. Which the speed of the torrent will hardly go up because the leechers will always outnumber the seeder. So it is important to seed back at least what you take. seeding is uploading a complete file. yes, it is useful... yes you should maintain the share ratio above 1.0. It is more healthy for the torrent. Some torrent trackers have rules that you have to seed/upload over a certain amount or else they do unspeakable things to you.
If everyone just downloaded the file from the uploader and stopped seeding without seeding the torrent 1:1 then the uploader will always be stuck seeding. Which the speed of the torrent will hardly go up because the leechers will always outnumber the seeder. So it is important to seed back at least what you take. SEEDS(uppers) & LEECHERS(downloaders) In the begining while downloading a torrent for the first time you are a leecher because the download hasn't completed. When it completes you switch to a seeder and dedicate that stream to simply uploading. The more seeds available the faster the download. Seeding is the process of connecting to a torrent when you have a complete file. Yes it is important to seed 1 to 1. The more seeders there are on a torrent the faster the torrent is. You are not downloading the torrent from the actual site you get it from. You are downloading it off another user that has it on their computer
An air seeder is an agricultural implement also called a planter or seeder and it is used to plant usually a seed crop in a large field. It was first patented in Australia in … the 1950's. The more seeders the faster the download will go.    Leechers are people who has a negative effect on  the swarm of the torrent. Leechers are commonly the users who  download much than they upload. They are the users who doesn't  leave their bit torrent clients seeding after downloading the file
All users who have the torrent open make up what is called a swarm. Technically, a seeder is someone who has 100-percent of the pieces that make up the torrent. Initially, the first few leachers within a swarm feed off the seeder. The more seeders the faster the download will go.    Leechers are people who has a negative effect on  the swarm of the torrent. Leechers are commonly the users who  download much than they upload. They are the users who doesn't  leave their bit torrent clients seeding after downloading the file
A seeder is someone who contributes to a torrent(shares the files) Vs. a Leecher(someone who doesn't share after downloading) many torrent sites include a Seeder and Leecher List for each individual torrent you download. the more seeders the faster the download. The more seeders the faster the download will go.    Leechers are people who has a negative effect on  the swarm of the torrent. Leechers are commonly the users who  download much than they upload. They are the users who doesn't  leave their bit torrent clients seeding after downloading the file
Often, leecher is synonymous with downloader (see above): simply describing a peer or any client that does not have 100% of the data. The term leech also refers to a peer (or peers) that has a negative effect on the swarm by having a very poor share ratio, downloading much more than they upload. Report Abuse. Seeders are users who have the complete file and are sharing it, leechers are users who are actively downloading the file but also share what they have downloaded with other users. David D · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
A slit seeder is a garden machine used to seed new or existing lawns. Slit seeders have vertical blades that cut parallel slits in the ground or turf and deposit seeds within the slits. Many slit seeders also have a roller, that will compress the slit and promote seed contact with the soil. Types of Slit Seeders. There are two different types of slit seeders. For homes and small areas, there is a walk-behind model. This utilizes powered blades to create the slits in the turf. Larger, tractor-mounted models do not use powered blades but instead utilize round blades to cut into the earth like a pizza cutter.