Mustique. The history of the island of Mustique goes back to the fifteenth century when Spanish Flight Information-Private Charter Rates-Scheduled Flights sailors first sighted a group of islands naming them 'Los Pajoros' or 'the birds' as they resembled a flock of tiny birds in flight. Mustique has a wide range of recreational activities to enjoy and many heavenly beaches where one can totally relax, sunbathe and picnic. Walking and horse riding trails are in abundance on the island and jeeps, motorcycles and mountain bikes may be rented from Mustique Mechanical Services.
Mustique /mʌˈstiːk/ is a small private island that is part of St Vincent and the Grenadines. The island is one of a group of islands called the Grenadines, most of which are part of St Vincent and the Grenadines, in the West Indies. The island is located within Grenadines Parish, an administrative area of the country. The history of the island of Mustique, and of the Grenadines in general, dates back to the 15th century, when Spanish sailors first sighted this more or less linear group of small rocky islands and named them Los Pajaros pájaros or the, birds because they resembled a small flock of birds scattered across the sea in. flight
The exclusive island of Mustique is at the northern tip of The Grenadines bordered by the Caribbean Sea to the west and the Atlantic Ocean to the east. It is part of the Lesser Antilles that are, in turn, part of the Windward Islands of the Caribbean. Mustique has a wide range of recreational activities to enjoy and many heavenly beaches where one can totally relax, sunbathe and picnic. Walking and horse riding trails are in abundance on the island and jeeps, motorcycles and mountain bikes may be rented from Mustique Mechanical Services.
Welcome to Mustique Island on the Paradise Islands website. Mustique island is part of the St Vincent and Grenadines group of islands and lies 18 miles south of St Vincent. Mustique island is 3 miles long and 1.5 miles wide, approx 14,000 acres.
In 1989, Mustique Island was transformed from a family estate into a private limited company, The Mustique Company, with the homeowners as shareholders. Kate Middleton is not the only celebrity to visit Mustique. The island is a favorite of celebrities like Jennifer Lopez, Mick Jagger, and the late Amy Winehouse. Queen Elizabeth II herself visited with Prince Philip in 1966, 1977, and 1985
The island of Mustique is owned by the Mustique Company, which in turn is owned by the island's home owners. The history of the island of Mustique, and of the Grenadines in general, dates back to the 15th century, when Spanish sailors first sighted this more or less linear group of small rocky islands and named them Los Pajaros pájaros or the, birds because they resembled a small flock of birds scattered across the sea in. flight
Basil's Bar-Mustique, located on the beautiful island of Mustique, St. Vincent & the Grenadines in the West Indies. Perched on stilts over the Caribbean Sea, Basil's hosts wonderful times for people from many countries. Mustique has a wide range of recreational activities to enjoy and many heavenly beaches where one can totally relax, sunbathe and picnic. Walking and horse riding trails are in abundance on the island and jeeps, motorcycles and mountain bikes may be rented from Mustique Mechanical Services.
Autumn is a fabulous time on Mustique. Why not extend your summer with a few precious sun soaked days, and enjoy the peace and tranquility of your own private island. Choose your ultimate holiday retreat from our Villa Collection. 
Mustique is reached by air from North America and Europe through Barbados, St. Vincent, Canouan, Grenada, Martinique, St. Lucia, Puerto Rico or Trinidad. Mustique has a wide range of recreational activities to enjoy and many heavenly beaches where one can totally relax, sunbathe and picnic. Walking and horse riding trails are in abundance on the island and jeeps, motorcycles and mountain bikes may be rented from Mustique Mechanical Services.