Okay, so my question is how hot my cpu should be when playing games? I got a lag problem which most likely is caused by my cpu, and i wonder if it is overheating, and that causes the lag, but i don,t realy know how hot it should be. When doing nothing it runs at 15-17 degrees, but when playing games it lays at about 43. At worst it's at 50 degrees. Is this too hot
In a properly configured desktop computer, much of this heat is moved out of the computer's case by several fans. If your computer isn't removing the hot air fast enough, the temperature can get so hot that you risk serious damage to your PC. Needless to say, keeping your computer cool should be a top priority. A phase change unit can be thought of as a refrigerator for your CPU. It utilizes many of the same technologies to cool or even freeze a CPU. Phase change units like the one pictured here range in price from $1,000 to $2,000 USD.
Most importantly though; you need to understand that there's nothing wrong with a computer part running at 90+ degrees celsius, since virtually all AMD video cards are designed to run that hot. You can also set your BIOS to warn you and even shut off the system if the cpu reaches a temperature threshold. I picked one up for $20 on sale, and not only is it completely silent, but my cpu idles at just a couple of degrees above room temperature (and that's inside a Bitfenix Prodigy M, with limited airflow).
The appropriate operating temperature of your processor depends on its manufacturer, top clock speed, where the sensor is located, and what programs it is currently running. However, this document should give you a general idea of what temperatures are acceptable under certain conditions. The majority of today's desktop processors should not exceed temperatures of 35°C and most run between 21°-32°C. Below is a chart listing many types of processors and their average temperatures. Keep in mind, this is only to give our users a general idea of what their processor should be running at. If you believe your computer is running too hot, you can skip to the bottom of this document for information about the safe temperature range for your processor
I have had cpu’s that run hot the best way of cooling them is with a solid copper heatsink and fan or by water cooling. A good copper heatsink and fan you can get for around £10-30. If you are running a socket 775 cpu go for the freezer pro 7. I use it and the max temp I have seen is 54c at idle my system is at 34c. I also use gold heatsink compound which is 30% better then the silver. Another way of checking your CPU temperature is to look in your computers BIOS. To get into your computers BIOS; on the first screen you see press “Del” to enter setup, on some machines this may be F1, F2 or F10.
I from what I have researched so far it would be ok for a CPU to run at 60º C for gaming but for a computer to be left on 24/7 is it safe or do I need to upgrade my cooling system and if so what should I do. Any suggestions comments or help would be much appreciated. It was running at 100% I would guess for about 30 hours on BOINC. The temperature for the CPU was 61º C. I am not too educated on cooling but that sounds a bit high for me. I would like to know if anyone else has any suggestions or has had the same problem.
Hi Everyone. I am running a Pentium Dual-Core 1.6ghz processor. My CPU temp is 21 Degrees Celcius, which is fine but I’m worrying about my system temp that goes up to 50 Degrees celcius at times. I live in a very hot place and I don’t know if this can be attributed to the 50 Degrees. Another way of checking your CPU temperature is to look in your computers BIOS. To get into your computers BIOS; on the first screen you see press “Del” to enter setup, on some machines this may be F1, F2 or F10.
Be sure to look at your CPU and graphics card temperatures. You can also find other temperatures, such as the temperature of your hard drive, but these components will generally only overheat if it becomes extremely hot in the computer’s case. The CPU and graphics card produce much more heat when running demanding applications. If there’s a problem with your computer’s cooling system, an excess of heat could even physically damage its components.
Laptops get hot. It's what they do. However, if your laptop is shutting down, suffering from the blue screen of death, or experiencing serious slowdowns, then you have a much bigger problem on your hands. In this case, you should probably take it in and get it repaired, if possible. Check (and Clean) Your Fans. When you feel your computer getting hot, put your hand next to the computer's fan vents. If you feel hot air blowing out of them, then your fan is working, but if you only feel a little bit of air, it could be your fan is built up with dust or is otherwise not working.