The protolith may be a sedimentary rock, an igneous rock or another older metamorphic rock. Metamorphic rocks make up a large part of the Earth 's crust and are classified by texture and by chemical and mineral assemblage (metamorphic facies). Quartzite, a form of metamorphic rock, from the Museum of Geology at University of Tartu collection. Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form.
Definition of METAMORPHIC. 1. : of or relating to metamorphosis. 2. of a rock: of, relating to, or produced by metamorphism. — meta·mor·phi·cal·ly \-fi-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See metamorphic defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Metamorphic rocks have been modified by heat, pressure and chemical processes, usually while buried deep below Earth's surface. Exposure to these extreme conditions has altered the mineralogy, texture and chemical composition of the rocks. There are two basic types of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, phyllite, schist, and slate have a layered or banded appearance that is produced by exposure to heat and directed pressure. Non-foliated metamorphic rocks such as hornfels, marble, quartzite, and novaculite do not have a layered or banded appearance. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common types of metamorphic rocks are shown on this page. Hornfels is a fine-grained nonfoliated metamorphic rock with no specific composition.
Gneiss, a foliated metamorphic rock. Foliation in geology refers to repetitive layering in metamorphic rocks. Each layer may be as thin as a sheet of paper, or over a meter in thickness. The word comes from the Latin folium, meaning leaf, and refers to the sheet-like planar structure. 
2. Geology Relating to metamorphism. Metamorphic rocks are formed when igneous, sedimentary, or other metamorphic rocks undergo a physical change due to extreme heat and pressure. These changes often produce folded layers and veins in the rocks, and they can also cause pockets of precious minerals to form. See Table at rock.
Noun. (plural metamorphic rocks). ( 1 geology) one of the major groups of rock that makes up the crust of the Earth; consists of pre-existing rock mass in which new minerals or textures are formed at higher temperatures and greater pressures than those present on the Earth's surface.
Foliated Metamorphic Rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks are formed within the Earth's interior under extremely high pressures that are unequal, occurring when the pressure is greater in one direction than in the others (directed pressure). 
Metamorphic rock. Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form. The original rock is subjected to heat and pressure, causing profound physical and/or chemical change. The protolith may be sedimentary rock, igneous rock or another older metamorphic rock.
The layering within metamorphic rocks is called foliation (derived from the Latin word folia, meaning leaves), and it occurs when a rock is being shortened along one axis during recrystallization. Quartzite, a form of metamorphic rock, from the Museum of Geology at University of Tartu collection. Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form.