Eat more salmon and trout. These fish are a great low-fat source of protein, and they contain loads of B vitamins. A meal featuring salmon, in particular, provides high levels of 6 of the 8 B vitamins: B2, B3, B5, B6, B7, and B12. Trout has more B1, B2, B5, and B12 than almost any other food. Or, you can create a diet rich in all the B vitamins by eating a few foods that contain multiple B vitamins. A spinach salad that included hard-boiled eggs and sunflower seeds, for instance, would provide a high amount of every single B vitamin.
Richest among all the vitamin B complex foods are milk, yeast, liver, whole-grain cereals, nuts, eggs, yogurt, fruits, meats and leafy vegetables. Vitamin B1 is an essential vitamin that aids in conversion of carbohydrates into energy. It also helps regulate normal functioning of heart, muscles and nervous system. It is for this reason that one should include vitamin B complex foods in one's diet. Here is a list of vitamin B complex foods. 1  Pork, berries, legumes, lean meats. 2  Nuts, soy milk (Vitamin B1). 3  Eggs, dark green vegetables, fish, grains, lean meat, mushrooms (B2). 4  Sunflower seeds, tuna, poultry, potato, cottage cheese, liver (B3). 5  Organ meats, avocados, broccoli, mushrooms(B5)
Foods That Contain Vitamin B1. The term enriched on food labels means that three B vitamins (thiamin, niacin, and riboflavin) plus one mineral (iron) have been added back to that food to make up for some of the nutrients that were lost during processing. Enriched breads and cereals are, therefore, good sources of thiamin
The B vitamins work collectively and individually in every cell to perform many different jobs, including helping the body release the energy it gets from carbohydrates, proteins and fats. Some foods are especially good sources of just one B vitamin, while other foods contain several B vitamins. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Some of the best sources of vitamin B6 are poultry, seafood, bananas, leafy green vegetables such as spinach, potatoes and fortified cereals. Your diet should include 1.3 milligrams of B-6 daily to support new red blood cell growth.
The B vitamins include thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, folate (also called folic acid or folacin), vitamin B6, vitamin B12, biotin and pantothenic acid. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Some of the best sources of vitamin B6 are poultry, seafood, bananas, leafy green vegetables such as spinach, potatoes and fortified cereals. Your diet should include 1.3 milligrams of B-6 daily to support new red blood cell growth.
Add more meat to your diet. Lean cuts of beef, pork, and lamb are very good sources of B vitamins. Red meat provides high levels of B2, B3, B5, B6, B7, and B12, while pork is rich in B1, B2, B3, B5, and B6. Chicken and turkey are less potent, but do contain large amounts of B3, B5, and B6. Or, you can create a diet rich in all the B vitamins by eating a few foods that contain multiple B vitamins. A spinach salad that included hard-boiled eggs and sunflower seeds, for instance, would provide a high amount of every single B vitamin.
The family of B vitamins play a vital role in cell metabolism and the formation of red blood cells. They also help your body to use and create energy from the foods you eat. You can get B vitamins from proteins such as fish, poultry, meat, eggs, and dairy products. Leafy green vegetables, beans, and peas also have B vitamins. Many cereals and some breads (labeled fortified) have added B vitamins. If you are grocery shopping for foods that contain B vitamins, below you'll find a breakdown of the essential B vitamins, their individual benefits, and their most common food source
Vitamin B complex can be found in many food groups which include green and leafy vegetables, dairy products, fresh fruits, and certain meats. Therefore, foods containing Vitamin B complex are brewer’s yeast, milk, whole grain cereals, liver, eggs, nuts, poultry, fish and yogurt, to name a few. Given below is a list of the different foods containing Vitamin B complex: 1  B 1 (Thiamin): Beans, liver, wheat germ, fish, peanuts and oranges. 2  B 2 (Riboflavin): Green and leafy veggies, dairy products, nuts, beans and meat. 3  B 3 (Niacin): Nuts, meat, dairy products, beans and peanuts. 