White matter tissue of the freshly cut brain appears pinkish white to the naked eye because myelin is composed largely of lipid tissue veined with capillaries. Its white color in prepared specimens is due to its usual preservation in formaldehyde. White matter is composed of bundles of myelinated nerve cell projections (or axons), which connect various grey matter areas (the locations of nerve cell bodies) of the brain to each other, and carry nerve impulses between neurons. Myelin acts as an insulator, increasing the speed of transmission of all nerve signals
White matter is a component of the central nervous system, in the brain and superficial spinal cord, and consists mostly of glial cells and myelinated axons that transmit signals from one region of the cerebrum to another and between the cerebrum and lower brain centers. White matter is composed of bundles of myelinated nerve cell projections (or axons), which connect various grey matter areas (the locations of nerve cell bodies) of the brain to each other, and carry nerve impulses between neurons. Myelin acts as an insulator, increasing the speed of transmission of all nerve signal
To understand the function of the white matter, try to think of the brain as a small town. The houses, shops and other important buildings would be the grey matter and all the roads, pedestrian walking paths and highways would be the white matter. 
White matter: I agree with dr. Kumar.  white matter  refers to the nerve fibers that facilitate communication between nerve cells -- along with myelin, a fatty sheath that covers the them. White matter is below the surface layer of the brain, and can be followed all the way down the spinal cord. White matter is one of the two components of the central nervous system and consists of glial cells and myelinated axons that transmit signals from one region of the cerebrum to another and between the cerebrum and lower brain centers.
Answers. Best Answer: white matter tansert information from the brain to the spinal cord. sometimes youll hear men have more grey matter and women have more white matter. its the signals your brain sends. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. White matter is brain tissue that carries information between the nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. When white matter doesn’t develop the way it should, or is somehow damaged, the result can be mental retardation and developmental disabilities.
The brain of humans consists of gray matter and white matter. The gray matter contains the nerve cells. White matter-myelin. The white matter of the brain is composed of nerve fibers and myelin. The nerve fibers form the connections between the nerve cells. Myelin is a fatty sheath wrapped around nerve fibers. The myelin sheath has two functions: insulation and acceleration of impulse conduction. Gray and white matter. 
Greetings. The brain has two component of the matter; grey and white. White matter is related to the nerves and its sheaths. Thus it carries the transmission to and fro of the various messages and sensations. Read the resource;
White matter disease. White matter disease also offers an insight into the importance of white matter in the brain. White matter disease targets small blood vessels deep inside white matter in the brain. In turn, these tiny arteries are then hardened, making it difficult for nutrients to access cells in the white matter.