What you see on CNBC, LIght Sweet Crude, also called West Texas Intermediate Crude is a benchmark for the types of crude oil in North America, like Oklahoma Sweet, Oklahoma Sour, New Mexico Intermediate, Uinta Basin Blac Wax, which is produced in northeastern Utah and other types. Best Answer: The price of Brent North Sea crude is a benchmark for all the types of crude in Europe and that area of the world.
Location: Brent Blend is a combination of crude oil from 15 different oil fields in the North Sea. It is less “light” and “sweet” than WTI, but still excellent for making gasoline. It is primarily refined in Northwest Europe, and is the major benchmark for other crude oils in Europe or Africa. Brent blend is generally priced at about a $4 per barrel premium to the OPEC Basket price or about a $1-2 per barrel discount to WTI. WTI is also known as Light Sweet Crude, the majority of which is located in the Permian oil Field. The OPEC Basket Price is an average of the prices of oil from Algeria, Indonesia, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Dubai, Venezuela, and Mexico. OPEC uses the price of this basket to monitor world oil market conditions
Monthly spot price of West Texas Intermediate in relation to the price of Brent Crude. Historically price differences between Brent and other index crudes have been based on physical differences in crude oil specifications and short-term variations in supply and demand. Brent Crude is extracted from the North Sea and comprises Brent Blend, Forties Blend, Oseberg and Ekofisk crudes (also known as the BFOE Quotation).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil is of very high quality and is at refining a larger portion of gasoline. Its API gravity is 39.6 degrees, which makes it a light crude oil, and it contains only about 0.24 percent of sulfur (making a sweet crude oil). Brent Blend is actually a combination of crude oil from fifteen different oil fields located in the North Sea. It is still a light crude oil, but not quite as light as WTI, and it contains about 0.37 percent of sulfur (making it a sweet crude oil, but again slightly less sweet than WTI). Brent blend is good for making gasoline and middle distillates. WTI is more expensive than Brent.
Brent blend is generally priced at about a $4 per barrel premium compared to the OPEC Basket price and about a $1 to $2 per barrel lower than WTI. For example, on Friday, June 25, 2010, NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil closed at $78.86 per barrel while Brent crude was $76.17 a barrel. Light Sweet Crude. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) is considered a light sweet crude oil of very high quality and is excellent for refining a larger portion of gasoline. Its API gravity is 39.6 degrees (making it a “light” crude oil), and it contains only about 0.24 percent sulfur (making it a “sweet” crude oil).
I've been asked lately with Brent crude prices rising over $100/bbl and WTI crude staying near $90 what the differences are. Many times, there are price differences between different types of oil as well, as some oils are more desirable than others. We'll cover that as well. WTI is generally priced at about a $5 to $6 per-barrel premium to the OPEC Basket price and about $1 to $2 per-barrel premium to Brent, although on a daily basis the pricing relationships between these can vary greatly.
When you compare the prices of these two types of crude oil, WTI is generally higher, although both of their values in the trading market can vary greatly, especially when traded on a daily basis. Summary: 1. WTI is a sweet crude oil, while Brent is a sweet light crude oil. 2. WTI is used to refine larger portions of gasoline, while Brent is used for making both gasoline and middle distillates. 3. WTI generally commands a higher price, while Brent commands a lower price in the trading market. 
The Brent-WTI spread, the difference between the prices of Brent and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oils, has narrowed considerably over the past several months. 