Weighing in at around 3 pounds, the liver is the body’s second largest organ; only the skin is larger and heavier. The liver performs many essential functions related to digestion, metabolism, immunity, and the storage of nutrients within the body. These functions make the liver a vital organ without which the tissues of the body would quickly die from lack of energy and nutrients.
Vitamin K. Vitamin K, a fat-soluble vitamin, is absorbed in the presence of bile, pancreatic juices, and is enhanced by dietary fat. Once absorbed, vitamin K is transported by chylomicrons which are microscopic lipid particles that transport fat-soluble components through the lymph. 
Other important but less immediate functions include: Producing bile to aid in digestion Bile salts aid in fat digestion and absorption. Bile is continuously secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder until a meal, when bile enters the beginning of the small intestine. Bile production ranges from 250 mL to 1 L per day depending of amount of food eaten. Excretion of bilirubin Bilirubin is one of the few waste products excreted in bile. 
Phenolic compounds in artichokes may promote bile production. Bile, produced by your liver from water, salts and cholesterol, helps your body digest fats by acting as an emulsifier -- a substance that breaks large fat particles into smaller ones in preparation for further action by digestive enzymes. Results showed a 144-percent increase in excretion of bile acids within 24 hours of eating oat bran. Researchers concluded that oat bran's soluble fiber may work by preventing reabsorption of bile from the intestinal tract, causing the body to have to produce fresh bile.
The liver plays an active role in the process of digestion through the production of bile. Bile is a mixture of water, bile salts, cholesterol, and the pigment bilirubin. Hepatocytes in the liver produce bile, which then passes through the bile ducts to be stored in the gallbladder. The liver performs many essential functions related to digestion, metabolism, immunity, and the storage of nutrients within the body. These functions make the liver a vital organ without which the tissues of the body would quickly die from lack of energy and nutrients.
Soluble Fiber. Soluble fiber in oat bran supports bile production by promoting secretion of bile acids, according to a study published in the August 2007 issue of the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition.. Participants consumed 75 grams of oat bran at breakfast each day for two 3-day periods. Results showed a 144-percent increase in excretion of bile acids within 24 hours of eating oat bran. Researchers concluded that oat bran's soluble fiber may work by preventing reabsorption of bile from the intestinal tract, causing the body to have to produce fresh bile.
Bile ducts carry bile from the liver and gallbladder through the pancreas. A huge amount of the bile is then released into the small intestine duodenum. The remaining bile is stored in the gallbladder. After food consumption the bile in the gallbladder is released to help with digestion and fat absorption. In humans, bile is produced continuously by the liver (liver bile), and stored and concentrated in the gallbladder (gallbladder bile). After eating, this stored bile is discharged into th
Without bile salts, most of the lipids in food would be excreted in feces, undigested. Since bile increases the absorption of fats, it is an important part of the absorption of the fat-soluble substances, such as the vitamins A, D, E, and K. In humans, bile is produced continuously by the liver (liver bile), and stored and concentrated in the gallbladder (gallbladder bile). After eating, this stored bile is discharged into the duodenum.
Secretion of Bile and the Role of Bile Acids In Digestion. Bile is a complex fluid containing water, electrolytes and a battery of organic molecules including bile acids, cholesterol, phospholipids and bilirubin that flows through the biliary tract into the small intestine. There are two fundamentally important functions of bile in all species:
Bile or gall is a dark green to yellowish brown fluid, produced by the liver of most vertebrates, that aids the digestion of lipids in the small intestine. In humans, bile is produced continuously by the liver (liver bile), and stored and concentrated in the gallbladder (gallbladder bile). After eating, this stored bile is discharged into the duodenum.