For those looking for safe maintenance of muscle mass a stack of Anavar with Primobolan is not a bad investment (but a big investment). The common use of oxandrolone is estimated, at 0.125 mg per pound of bodyweight. For men it should be closer to 0.2 mg per pound, for women 0.08 mg per pound per day. 
Advanced Male Anavar Cycle. The following Anavar cycle is for the far more advanced steroid user. Again, this cycle will be far more suited during a cutting period than bulking. We have further laid it out as a 12 week plan, but total duration could easily be 16 weeks if you need to adjust to this time frame. Anavar can be an excellent bulking steroid for women, but as is with men cutting is its primary benefit. For the first Anavar cycle, we have laid out a solid cutting plan that includes Anavar, Clenbuterol, Nolvadex and HGH. The HGH is not a must but is an option if you so desire.
Welcome. You can cycle anavar 12 weeks but since you are new just do a 6 to 8 week cycle. Start at 2.5 or 5 mg....no more. You can take half at morning and half at night or just take the whole once per day. I recommend half if possible. You should leave the same amount of time in between cycles as the cycle itself. Originally Posted by Miss Muscle Welcome. You can cycle ana Anavar (var) 12 weeks but since you are new just do a 6 to 8 week cycle. Start at 2.5 or 5 mg....no more. You can take half at morning and half at night or just take the whole once per day. I recommend half if possible
Anavar Cycle and Dosages for Women. Below you will find various Anavar cycles to select. If you have not used a supplement previously, you should begin with a stack for newbies so that you won’t react negatively to it. Most newbies will have enough Anavar to really make a difference. Anavar will do many of the things that most female athletes want. You can expect your muscles to grow and make you much stronger if you plan for and take the proper dosage. But most importantly, you can expect to have a leaner body. Using Anavar is most popular among women for weight loss and cutting fat.
Doses & Duration of Anavar for Women: Generally speaking 10mg-20mg is a fine dosing to serve any female purpose with 20mg per day being as far as most will want to go. While it is a mild steroid virilization probability can increase a fair amount when this dosing level is surpassed. While the steroid can be used effectively by men Anavar for women is far more effective and efficient; so much so we can and many often do label Oxandrolone the official girl steroid.
Anavar is not only female friendly but very beneficial; so much so that many women find it is the only steroid they need. Typical Anavar dosages for a female cutting cycle will often be in the 10mg per day range and often this is all the Oxandrolone that is needed. 
Anavar is a great way to introduce yourself to the world of AAS. Cycles can be as long as 12 weeks or as short as 8 weeks. Dosages range from 5mg to 20mg (or 40 if you are a hardcore body builder..). It is recommended that if you are new you start your first week at 5mg split in half morning and evening. If 5mg is tolerated well then move up to 10mgs. Again split morning and evening so you will be taking 5mg in the am and 5mg in the pm. PCT is not normally discussed for women but it is an important part of the cycle especially if you start getting into some of the more advance stacks.
For the Anavar cycle, women need to first make sure they can tolerate the hormone before they take too much. Almost all women can take 10mg a day just fine, but some actually need up to 20mg a day. But that’s rare as most will not need to take more than 10mg. In most cases a course of 6 weeks is easily tolerated, with a break of 3 to 4 weeks in between if you think you want to partake in another Anavar cycle. In our opinion a 6-week cycle is perfect for getting the desired results. Men who want to run an Anavar cycle should only do this if they are in the cutting phase. Even though this hormone is extremely powerful for women, this hormone will not do much for men who want to bulk-up. It might be tried for this purpose, but it would take massive doses to see any results at all.