You don't need to use the coffee grounds themselves in your garden — you can also make a nutritious plant food from them and use it instead. To do this, place a handful of coffee grounds into a bucket of water. Let it sit in a cool, out-of-the-way place (like your garage) for a day or two. Use grounds to keep cats out of your garden. Coffee grounds aren't just good for tiny pests. They can also be used to keep feline friends from playing in your delicate plants. In this case, use the grounds just as you'd use them to repel snails — sprinkle them around the plants you want to protect.
4. Fertilizer. Add the coffee grounds to soil, and they will act as fertilizer. You can also mix warm water with the grounds then use the mixture as a fertilizing spray or feed for some of your house plants. Coffee grounds will be a good addition to compost, as well, since they are very rich in nutrients. 5. 2. Beauty scrub. Mix honey with coffee grounds to create a scrub that you can use for your face or body to keep your skin feeling smooth and to help it glow. The scrub is also said to reduce cellulite on your body. 3. Hair mask. Rub the grounds into your hair before shampooing and conditioning.
Coffee grounds can also be used in your garden for other things. 1  Many gardeners like to use used coffee grounds as a mulch for their plants. 2  Other used for coffee grounds include using it to keep slugs and snails away from plants. Composting Coffee Grounds. Composting with coffee is a great way to make use of something that would otherwise end up taking up space in a landfill. Composting coffee grounds helps to add nitrogen to your compost pile. Composting coffee grounds is as easy as throwing the used coffee grounds on
5. Coffee grounds can also be used as a deodorizer. Place grounds in a jar or dish to absorb odors from refrigerators and freezers. 6. Leave a dish of coffee grounds out to absorb odors in rooms that have an unpleasant odor. 7. Deodorize a car that may have had one too many fast-food items left in it. 8. I looked into finding the many uses for my leftover coffee grounds. It turns out, coffee grounds can be used for a variety of cleaning, gardening and body care uses. If you aren’t a coffee drinker, you may want to check out your local coffee houses for their leftovers.
Used coffee grounds for gardening does not end with compost. Many people choose to place coffee grounds straight onto the soil and use it as a fertilizer. The thing to keep in mind is while coffee grounds add nitrogen to your compost, they will not immediately add nitrogen to your soil. Composting Coffee Grounds. Composting with coffee is a great way to make use of something that would otherwise end up taking up space in a landfill. Composting coffee grounds helps to add nitrogen to your compost pile. Composting coffee grounds is as easy as throwing the used coffee grounds on
You can use your old coffee grounds as mulch for plants that love acid, like roses, azaleas, rhododendrons, evergreens, camellias, and hydrangeas. 
1 Add two cups of used coffee grounds to a five-gallon bucket of water. 2  Let the tea steep for a few hours or overnight. 3  You can use this concoction as a liquid fertilizer for garden and container plants. 4  It also makes a great foliar feed. 5  Add coffee grounds to your worm bin. 1 Put coffee grounds in your compost bin. 2  As noted above, they are a valuable source of nitrogen. 3  Add grounds directly to the soil in your garden. 4  You can scratch it into the top couple inches of soil, or just sprinkle the grounds on top and leave it alone. 5  Create a slug and snail barrier.
2. Plant food. Plants such as rosebushes, azaleas, rhododendrons, evergreen and camellias that prefer acidic soils will appreciate the leftovers from your morning cup. Also, grounds can add nutrients to your compost bin. 3. Insect repellant. Sprinkle old grounds around places you don’t want ants, or on the ant piles themselves. And, finally, the top use for used coffee grounds....drum roll here.... 10. Cellulite reducer. I kid you not. We're supposed to mix 1/4 cup warm, used coffee grounds with 1 tablespoon of olive oil, then, while standing over an old towel or newspaper, we're to apply the mixture to our problem areas.
1 Make coffee ground tea.. 2  Add two cups of used coffee grounds to a five-gallon bucket of water. 3  Let the tea steep for a few hours or overnight. 4  You can use this concoction as a liquid fertilizer for garden and container plants. 1 Put coffee grounds in your compost bin. 2  As noted above, they are a valuable source of nitrogen. 3  Add grounds directly to the soil in your garden. 4  You can scratch it into the top couple inches of soil, or just sprinkle the grounds on top and leave it alone. 5  Create a slug and snail barrier.
1 Many gardeners like to use used coffee grounds as a mulch for their plants. 2  Other used for coffee grounds include using it to keep slugs and snails away from plants. 3  The theory is that the caffeine in the coffee grounds negatively affects these pests and so they avoid soil where the coffee grounds are found. Composting Coffee Grounds. Composting with coffee is a great way to make use of something that would otherwise end up taking up space in a landfill. Composting coffee grounds helps to add nitrogen to your compost pile. Composting coffee grounds is as easy as throwing the used coffee grounds on