One muscle may have more than one origin or insertion. The portion of a muscle that is between origin and insertion is called the belly or gaster of the muscle, which is mainly composed of muscle fibers. Origin. Origin is the attachment site of the muscle’s tendon to a more stationary bone. It has very less movement and normally a muscle contracts towards it. • Origin tends to be more proximal while insertion tends to be more origin. • Origin of a muscle attaches to a less movable bone whereas insertion of a muscle attaches to a more moveable bone. • Insertion has less mass than the site of origin. • When a muscle contracts, it pulls insertion towards origin. Related posts:
The origin of a muscle is where the muscle starts (the starting point). The insertion of a muscle is where the muscle ends (the ending point). Also, the insertion of t … he muscle is what moves a lot (contrary of the origin where the muscle mostly stays stationary). 2 people found this useful. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. origin is where the muscle is attached and is the starting point where the insertion is where the muscle ends the ending point the insertion of the muscle is what moves, while the origin in most cases stays still.
The seven general types of skeletal muscle. The origin of a muscle is the bone, typically proximal, which has greater mass and is more stable during a contraction than a muscle's insertion. For example, with the latissimus dorsi muscle, the origin site is the torso, and the insertion is the arm. Normally the distal (arm) moves due to having less mass. This is the case when grabbing objects lighter than the body (like someone beginning on a lat pull down machine)
• Origin is the end that does not move when the muscle moves while insertion is the end that does move when the muscle moves. • Origin tends to be more proximal while insertion tends to be more origin. • Origin of a muscle attaches to a less movable bone whereas insertion of a muscle attaches to a more moveable bone. • Insertion has less mass than the site of origin. • When a muscle contracts, it pulls insertion towards origin. Related posts:
Best Answer: Muscle origin is the location of the muscle attachment to the bone. Muscle insertion describes on which bone of a joint a muscle end attaches. 
For example, one could say the wrist is distal to the elbow. Conversely, you can say the elbow is proximal to the wrist. Muscular contraction produces an action, or a movement of the appendage. We will use examples to describe how the origin and insertion affect the action of a skeletal muscle. In summary, skeletal muscles are attached to bones on each end by tendons. The origin is the fixed attachment, while the insertion moves with contraction. The action, or particular movement of a muscle, can be described relative to the joint or the body part moved. Groups of muscles are involved in most movements and names are used to describe the role of each muscle involved
origin is where the muscle is attached and is the starting point where the insertion is where the muscle ends the ending point the insertion of the muscle is what moves, w … hile the origin in most cases stays still. + 23 others found this useful. Amor Palero. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The end of the muscle that is attached to the stationary bone is the point of origin. The muscle end that is attached to the moving bone is the point of insertion, and the action is what the muscle actually does.
The end of the muscle that is attached to the stationary bone is  the point of origin. The muscle end that is attached to the moving  bone is the point of insertion, and the … action is what the muscle  actually does. 4 people found this useful. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. origin is where the muscle is attached and is the starting point where the insertion is where the muscle ends the ending point the insertion of the muscle is what moves, while the origin in most cases stays still.