Wart facts. 1  Warts are small, self-limited tumors caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. 2  Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 3  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 1 Warts are small, self-limited tumors caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. 2  Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 3  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 4  Warts respond variably to a variety of treatment measure
Warts Overview. Patient Comments Share Your Story. Warts are small harmless tumors of the skin caused by a virus called the human papillomavirus. The appearance of warts can differ based on the type of wart and where it is located on the body. Most warts are well defined, with skin thickening. 
About Warts. Warts are non-cancerous (benign) skin growths caused by viruses that develop on different parts of the body and can take on various forms. They are contagious and very common: Almost everyone has a wart at some point in their life. Warts can affect people at any age, but are most common among children and young people. Viral warts are a common skin disease, most frequently affecting the hands and feet, caused by the human papilloma virus. While warts are not harmful and usually go away in time without any treatment, they can be unsightly and painful. Warts on the soles of the feet are also called 'plantar warts' or 'verrucas'.
Warts are non-cancerous skin growths caused by a viral infection in the top layer of the skin. They can appear anywhere on the skin but they are most common on the hands and feet. Wart colors can range from skin-colored, pink, brown and white. Warts are tiny skin infections caused by viruses of the human papillomavirus (HPV) family. The viruses that cause warts are passed from person to person, sometimes indirectly. The risk of catching hand, foot and flat warts is small.
A wart is a skin growth caused by some types of the virus called the human papillomavirus (HPV) . HPV infects the top layer of skin, usually entering the body in an area of broken skin. The virus causes the top layer of skin to grow rapidly, forming a wart. Most warts go away on their own within months or years. Warts can grow anywhere on the body, and there are different kinds. For example, common warts grow most often on the hands, but they can grow anywhere.
Warts are raised bumps on your skin caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). Warts have plagued humans for thousands of years—they have been discovered on 3,000-year-old mummies and were mentioned by Shakespeare. There are more than 100 types of HPV, the virus that causes warts. Almost all types of HPV cause relatively harmless warts that appear on your hands or feet. However, there are a few strains of HPV that cause warts on, in, and around your genitals.
Reviewed by Brunilda Nazario, MD. When skin warts appear, it can seem as if the harmless growths came out of nowhere. But common warts are actually an infection in the top layer of skin, caused by viruses in the human papillomavirus, or HPV, family. 
Wart: A local growth of the outer layer of the skin (the epidermis) caused by a virus. The virus of warts (a papillomavirus) is transmitted by contact. The contact can be with a wart on someone else or one on oneself (autoinoculation). Warts that occur on the hands or top of the feet are called common warts.. 
A wart is typically a small growth that appears on a person's hands or feet and looks like a solid blister or a small cauliflower. They may also appear on other parts of the body. Warts have a rough texture and are caused by viruses, particularly one of several kinds of HPV (human papillomavirus). The virus causes keratin, which is a hard protein on the top layer of the skin, to grow too fast. Warts are not the same as moles