Other species of squirrel may vary from this somewhat. The mother begins to wean her babies between 6-7 weeks of age, but will continue to nurse them until they are 10-12 weeks old. At this time they are pretty much on their own and will return to the nest for safety and to sleep.
Tags: squirrel, baby animals, autumn, fall. Created: 11/27/2012 Updated: 11/27/2012. The simple answer is, baby squirrels don't leave the nest until they are fully furred and can survive on their own so, without seeing the mother right next to the babies, they all look about the same size. Most babies leave the nest in April or May. If the girls aren't ready to mate, they will often chase the boys away and may bite their tails or scratch their ears. Once baby squirrels leave the nest, they are ready to forage on their own. Both adults and babies need the same kind of food, high fat, high protein nuts. Unsalted peanuts work just fine. Even more preferred are hazelnuts and walnuts
1 It is best to wait until the baby squirrels are 10 to 12 weeks old when they will leave the nest on their own in search of their own territory. 2  In the meantime, pay close attention to how the squirrels get in and out. Leave the immediate area, and mom should hear her baby crying and come to get it. Mother squirrels can carry their babies in their mouth back to the original nest. Check on the nest box/basket after around 3 hours.
Baby Squirrels. Gray squirrels nest twice a year, in late winter and summer. They commonly have litters of three or four pups. Babies' eyes open at four weeks of age and the young are often starting to explore outside the nest at six weeks of age. They are typically weaned and ready to be on their own at 10 weeks of age. A baby squirrel has the best chance of survival when it is cared for by its mother. Sometimes healthy young squirrels are found on the ground by are not orphans -- they simply need help being reunited with their mothers.
Blind, hairless, and helpless, the little ones need a lot of care from their mother. (Male squirrels do not help raise the young.) After about six weeks, the baby squirrels have all their fur. Then they open their eyes and begin to explore outside the nest. By the time they are 2 months, squirrels can eat nutmeats. After two more weeks, they can crack open the shells themselves. When something threatens a baby squirrel, the mother rescues it. The baby curls around her neck for a quick ride back to the nest.
It is also a time when many of us trim trees and branches. If at all possible, please postpone trimming trees and branches with nests in them. Wait until the babies are old enough to leave the nest on their own. An average nest of squirrel babies may consist of 2-4 young, but can even be as many as 5 -6. When first born, the babies are hairless, we call them “pinkies” and their eyes are closed. 
Gray squirrels are born between February and April and again between August and September. Gestation is 38 days long in fox squirrels and 44 days in gray squirrels. The eyes open in 28-35 days and the squirrels are weaned at 6-8 weeks. They leave the nest between 10 and 12 weeks of age. If it is near night time, keep the baby inside until morning and then place the baby in the box with a hot water bottle or jar of warm water, if necessary, at the base of the tree again. You can leave the squirrel inthe box for up to 48 hours. If the motherdoes not return before the 48 hours, then you have an orphan.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: baby squirrels are 10 to 12 weeks old when they will leave the nest on their own in search of their own territory. 
If the mother has still not returned for her baby, contact your nearest wildlife rehabilitator. 1  In a tree that was just cut down? 2  Check to see if the baby squirrels are ok. 3  In my house or attic? 4  It is best to wait until the baby squirrels are 10 to 12 weeks old when they will leave the nest on their own in search of their own territory. Leave the immediate area, and mom should hear her baby crying and come to get it. Mother squirrels can carry their babies in their mouth back to the original nest. Check on the nest box/basket after around 3 hours.