Each ship has a photo store called Shutters. Any photos taken during your Disney cruise will be available to view at Shutters just a few hours after they are taken. There are two ways to see your pictures at Shutters.
For back-to-back cruises you can purchase the package for your second cruise for 50% off. If you have more than one stateroom the other rooms can purchase an additional CD for 50% off. Packages are available for 1o prints, all digital files, or digital files plus prints.
Some Caribbean Disney Cruises also sail to Disney Cruise Line's private island, Castaway Cay. Others head to George Town, Grand Cayman, home to the unique Cayman Turtle Farm, or San Juan, Puerto Rico, a 16th century town with modern-day attractions.
1 Internet on the ship is pricey, so I had to wait until I got home. 2  I had no problems accessing and downloading all my photos, but it did take around 30 minutes; 3  You can apparently buy your photos after the cruise but only within 6 weeks of your cruise and at a much higher cost ($25 for a single emailed jpeg).
If you’re interested in reading my Disney Cruise Photo Tip #1 about character photos, you can click on the link. Please note, I have no affiliation with Disney and I was not asked to write this post – it’s solely for informational purposes.
I did not purchase the photo package on my first two Disney cruises. Most characters have a cast member with them who will take a picture with your camera, so I figured I would save a little money by just taking my own pictures and handing my camera off when I wanted in the shot. That theory was flawed for many reasons.
This post is specific to Disney Cruise Line photos and I realize that many of you may not have been on a Disney cruise and may not be contemplating one, but I didn’t see much information out there on the Internet about this topic so I thought I’d share my personal experience in case someone may benefit.
Photos can be turned into Disney Cruise Line themed photo cards to send to your family and friends, or even use as greeting cards. Any photos they take of you will be put on display at Shutters, the photography shop onboard.
1 You can apparently buy your photos after the cruise but only within 6 weeks of your cruise and at a much higher cost ($25 for a single emailed jpeg). 2  There’s no way to view the photos so you have to give your best description of it from memory.