What Are Seismic Waves? Seismic waves are the waves of energy caused by the sudden breaking of rock within the earth or an the energy that travels through the earth and is recorded on seismographs. Types of Seismic Waves There are several different kinds of seismic waves, and they all move in different ways. 
S Waves. The second type of body wave is the S wave or secondary wave, which is the second wave you feel in an earthquake. An S wave is slower than a P wave and can only move through solid rock, not through any liquid medium. They are the energy that travels through the earth and is recorded on seismographs. Types of Seismic Waves. There are several different kinds of seismic waves, and they all move in different ways. The two main types of waves are body waves and surface waves.
Among the many types of seismic waves, one can make a broad distinction between body waves and surface waves. 1  Body waves travel through the interior of the Earth. 2  Surface waves travel across the surface. 3  Particle motion of surface waves is larger than that of body waves, so surface waves tend to cause more damage. Among the many types of seismic waves, one can make a broad distinction between body waves and surface waves. 1  Body waves travel through the interior of the Earth. 2  Surface waves travel across the surface. 3  Surface waves decay more slowly with distance than do body waves, which travel in three dimensions.
P Waves. The first kind of body wave is the P wave or primary wave. This is the fastest kind of seismic wave, and, consequently, the first to 'arrive' at a seismic station. The P wave can move through solid rock and fluids, like water or the liquid layers of the earth. They are the energy that travels through the earth and is recorded on seismographs. Types of Seismic Waves. There are several different kinds of seismic waves, and they all move in different ways. The two main types of waves are body waves and surface waves.
Body waves. Body waves are of two types: compressional or primary (P) waves and shear or secondary (S) waves. P-and S-waves are called body waves because they can travel through the interior of a body such as the Earth's inner layers, from the focus of an earthquake to distant points on the surface. The seismic waves created as they move from the epicentre an earthquake vary. What is amazing is how fast they can travel: up to 2 miles per second in granite! Seismic waves can be classified into two basic types: body waves which travel through the Earth and surface waves, which travel along the Earth's surface.
Earthquakes generate three types of seismic waves: P (primary) waves, S (secondary) waves and surface waves, which arrive at seismic recording stations one after another. Both P and S waves penetrate the interior of the Earth while surface waves do not. Due to this, P and S waves are known as body waves. 
Velocity of seismic waves in the Earth versus depth. The negligible S-wave velocity in the outer core occurs because it is liquid, while in the solid inner core the S-wave velocity is non-zero. Among the many types of seismic waves, one can make a broad distinction between body waves and surface waves. 1  Body waves travel through the interior of the Earth. 2  Surface waves travel across the surface. 3  Surface waves decay more slowly with distance than do body waves, which travel in three dimensions.
seismic wave. A seismic wave is an elastic wave generated by an impulse such as an earthquake or an explosion. Seismic waves may travel either along or near the earth's surface (Rayleigh and Love waves) or through the earth's interior (P and S waves). Share this page: 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Both types of seismic wave can be detected near the earthquake centre but only P-waves can be detected on the other side of the Earth. This is because P-waves can travel through solids and liquids whereas S-waves can only travel through solids. This means the liquid part of the core blocks the passage of S-waves. Page: 
Seismic waves are the waves of energy caused by the sudden breaking of rock within the earth or an explosion. They are the energy that travels through the earth and is recorded on seismographs. Types of Seismic Waves. There are several different kinds of seismic waves, and they all move in different ways. The two main types of waves are body waves and surface waves.