How to Lower Blood Pressure Before Testing. A common policy among all employers is to test their potential employees before appointing them. For this the candidate is made to undergo certain tests like – drug tests, blood pressure test, and diabetes tests. One week before the testing, visit a doctor and get your blood pressure checked. If you have high blood pressure, ask your doctor to prescribe some common medicines that have quick action in lowering the blood pressure. Medications should only be taken under medical advice.
Take a brisk walk for at least 15 to 20 minutes. While at least 30 minutes of physical activity five days a week can reduce blood pressure overall and is effective for managing hypertension, a patient may not have the time necessary for regular exercise to have a significant effect on blood pressure before a test. There are several ways to reduce blood pressure for testing, sometimes called a physical. Job applicants, employees, students and athletes are some of the hopefuls who must undergo testing to qualify for a position where health status is a factor in the determination process.
Two Methods: Long term healthiness Lower blood pressure the night before a test. If your blood pressure is a major concern with you and your doctor, then you both need to come up with a plan of action. Although you cannot significantly lower blood pressure overnight, you can make changes overnight that will begin the journey toward lower blood pressure. In 24 hours you may lower a few points just to pass your test. However, in weeks you may reverse your high blood pressure and, if followed for life, you may live healthy and for many more years.
However, if the main reason for your doctor's appointment is to check for or monitor high blood pressure, you should use the toilet before your test to empty your bladder, and avoid eating, drinking caffeinated beverages and smoking for one hour before your test. Because some medications — such as over-the-counter cold medicines, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs), antidepressants, birth control pills and others — can affect your blood pressure, it's a good idea to take a list of medications and supplements you use to your doctor's appointment.
While at least 30 minutes of physical activity five days a week can reduce blood pressure overall and is effective for managing hypertension, a patient may not have the time necessary for regular exercise to have a significant effect on blood pressure before a test. Step 4. Drink a glass of water. Water has a calming effect on the nervous system, and water flushes out sodium, an element that increases blood pressure. Drink a larger portion of water at one time, rather than sipping on water at several intervals during the day.
April 25, 2006 -- Before your next blood pressure test, you might want to rest in a chair for at least five minutes. Sitting on the exam table in the doctor's office isn't the same, according to new research presented in Denver at the Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association's 12th annual symposium. 
You also want to reduce the amount of salt in your foods, since sodium increases blood pressure. Processed foods and deli meats are high in sodium, so avoid those if possible. You may also want to add spices to your food to replace the flavor that will be lost when you reduce the salt. In 24 hours you may lower a few points just to pass your test. However, in weeks you may reverse your high blood pressure and, if followed for life, you may live healthy and for many more years.
How you prepare. No special preparations are needed for a blood pressure test. You might want to wear a short-sleeved shirt to your appointment so that the nurse or technician doing your blood pressure test has easy access to your arm to perform the test. Because some medications — such as over-the-counter cold medicines, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs), antidepressants, birth control pills and others — can affect your blood pressure, it's a good idea to take a list of medications and supplements you use to your doctor's appointment.