Not only does the mushroom itself glow, but so too the entire fungal body of the Jack-O -Lantern. A mushroom is just the above-ground part of the fungus that releases spores, similar to the way that a flower is just the reproductive part of the whole plant that releases seeds. 
Unlike chanterelles, jack-o'-lantern mushrooms have true, sharp, non-forking gills; this is possibly the simplest trait for distinguishing between the two. Furthermore, if the jack-o'-lantern's stem is peeled, the inside is orange, while the chanterelle is paler inside the stem. The eastern North American jack-o'-lantern mushroom is Omphalotus illudens; the Western jack-o'-lantern mushroom (Omphalotus olivascens) is common in southern to central California: Both are poisonous. The similarly poisonous mushroom Tsukiyotake (Omphalotus japonicus (Kawam.) Kirchm.
Unlike the chanterelle, the jack-o'-lantern mushroom contains the toxin illudin S, and is poisonous to humans. While not lethal, consuming this mushroom leads to very severe cramps, vomiting, and diarrhea. The eastern North American jack-o'-lantern mushroom is Omphalotus illudens; the Western jack-o'-lantern mushroom (Omphalotus olivascens) is common in southern to central California: Both are poisonous. The similarly poisonous mushroom Tsukiyotake (Omphalotus japonicus (Kawam.) Kirchm.
Omphalotus olearius-The Jack o'Lantern Mushroom. Omphalotus olearius is the Latin name for the interesting jack o'lantern mushroom. Famous for its bright color and bioluminescent properties, the jack o'lantern is also a poisonous mushroom. This mushroom contains the toxin muscarine, which causes severe cramps and diarrhea. It is not deadly, but consuming this species may require hospitalization. The problem is that the jack o'lantern is often mistaken for certain types of gourmet chanterelles. Jack o'Lantern Mushroom Facts. 1  Colors range from bright orange to an orange-y green on the cap and stem. 2  The cap is smooth and convex to flat at first. 3  The stem is smooth, with no ring on the top or sac at the base. 4  Usually found growing in clusters. 5  This species is a saprotroph, meaning it feeds on dead material. 6  Appears in late summer through ...
The jack-o’-lantern mushroom is a common mushroom and has two forms in the United States. East of the Rocky Mountains, Omphalotus illudens is a bright orange. West of the Rockies, Omphalotus olivascens grows in southern to central California, where it has olive shades mixed with orange. 
Omphalotus olearius, commonly known as the jack-o'-lantern mushroom, is a poisonous orange gilled mushroom that to an untrained eye appears similar to some chanterelles. It is notable for its bioluminescent properties. The eastern North American jack-o'-lantern mushroom is Omphalotus illudens; the Western jack-o'-lantern mushroom (Omphalotus olivascens) is common in southern to central California: Both are poisonous. The similarly poisonous mushroom Tsukiyotake (Omphalotus japonicus (Kawam.) Kirchm.
The mushroom part is a lot like the flower on a plant. Jack O'Lanterns bloom from July to November. The gills of a mushroom are the feathery things under the cap. The Jack O'Lantern has gills that run partway down the stalk. The gills of this mushroom also glow in the dark. This type of light, called bioluminescence, causes a greenish glow at night. The way fungi make more fungi is by producing spores
Omphalotus olearius. The Jack O'Lantern is an orange or orangish-yellow mushroom with a cap up to eight inches wide. Its stalk can grow also grow eight inches tall. Jack O'Lanterns grow in large clusters on the base of live trees, on old stumps, or on buried roots. Jack O'Lanterns bloom from July to November. The gills of a mushroom are the feathery things under the cap. The Jack O'Lantern has gills that run partway down the stalk. The gills of this mushroom also glow in the dark.
Omphalotus illudens. by Michael Kuo. Often called the Jack O'Lantern Mushroom, this species is fairly easy to identify. It grows in clusters on wood, its colors are bright orange, its gills run down the stem, it has a white to pale yellow spore print, and its flesh, when sliced open, is orange (or at least orangish). The Jack O'Lantern is the focus of the largest and most insidious conspiracy in the mycological world. According to every field guide, and every other source of literature available for the species, its gills glow in the dark.
Members have the traditional cap and stem toadstool form. They are saprobic, and fruit in clumps on trees. The best known and type species is the jack-o'-lantern mushroom (Omphalotus olearius) . Species of Omphalotus have been mistaken for chanterelles. Since then, the genera have been found to have a close relationship with the genus Nothopanus, and the whole group to lie within the agaric family Marasmiaceae. The group has been classified in their own family Omphalotaceae. The type species is the jack-o'-lantern mushroom (Omphalotus olearius) from Europe.