Report Abuse. Well it depends. If you get a Roborovski Dwarf, then it is suggested that you get two because they are better in pairs, but if you get two you HAVE to own a seperate cage as well in case they start to fight! Because then they need to be seperated. And if you get two, you have to own two of everything, two wheels, etc. 
Report Abuse. they are both ADORABLE!! i had a dwarf and i wanted the robo SOO baddd they're like baby dwarves!! but neither of them will cuddle with you. i had a dwarf for 2 years and he was way too fast to ever cuddle with!! i wish he would've cuddled though..if you're looking for a cuddle partner get a ferret. To tell you the truth, i have never had a robo, but from my experiences with my 2 dwarves i love them! I love them because you could cuddle them with only one hand and stroke them with the other! Plus my dwarf is also fast!
1 The more the better when keeping one or two dwarf hamsters together. 2  See our TOP 10 dwarf hamster accessories. 3  Individual Requirements – To avoid fighting over food, toys and accessories it is advised that you give each hamster their own food bowl, wheel and house to sleep in. Unlike Syrian hamsters, dwarf hamsters like the Russian dwarf hamster can be kept together in pairs or groups under certain circumstances. However this may not always be the case as you will learn below.
The larger the Roborovski dwarf hamster group, the more exercise wheels are necessary, as a dwarf hamster group usually wants to be active together. While one to three Roborovskis can be comfortable in 2 square feet of living space, more space is always better for these speedy, little hamsters. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You can have two Robo hamsters together; however, always have an extra cage on hand, just in case they decide that they don't get along. I'd suggest getting two of them at the same time, from the same cage. Basically, you're going to need a pretty large cage to keep them both happy. If you decide to get a pair of robo dwarfs make sure not to put a male and female together, this can result in many hamster babies! Make sure to get two of everything and a big cage because this will help prevent fighting.Check in on them regulrly to make sure no one is hurt and always have a spare cage.Hope I helped!
You can keep two Russian dwarf hamsters together of the same sex, from the same litter and if with plenty of space between them they may get a long. Click here to see our how to introduce two Russian dwarfs together. Keeping a male and a female together will result in babies and this is not advised. Unlike Syrian hamsters, dwarf hamsters like the Russian dwarf hamster can be kept together in pairs or groups under certain circumstances. However this may not always be the case as you will learn below.
**Guest post from Felicia M.**. The Roborovski dwarf hamster is the smallest hamster in the world, maxing out at just under 3 inches long. This isn’t the only thing that makes “Robos” unique. They have the longest lifespan of any other pet hamster, up to 3-1/2 years. 
Report Abuse. Don't put 2 together, they fight! Put something they can chew on in the cage, a wheel, and if you get the cage with tunnels...add tons of tunnels they love it. Get a cage with tunnels. Source(s): I have a female robo dwarf hamster. If you decide to get a pair of robo dwarfs make sure not to put a male and female together, this can result in many hamster babies! Make sure to get two of everything and a big cage because this will help prevent fighting.Check in on them regulrly to make sure no one is hurt and always have a spare cage.Hope I helped!
Roborovski hamsters (Phodopus roborovskii; formerly Cricetulus bedfordiae) also known as desert hamsters or Robos are the smallest of three species of hamster in the genus Phodopus, averaging under 2 cm (1 inch) at birth and between 4.5–5 cm (2 inches) and 20-25 g (1 oz) during adulthood. 
Hamsters are Not Social. Dwarf hamsters are more social than Syrian hamsters but you still have to be very cautious when keeping more than one hamster in a living enclosure. Hamsters are more friendly with people than they are with other hamsters. They'll require a regimen of proper introduction and socialization in order to live together. Once you've determined you have a pair of dwarf hamsters that can get along, equip a large cage with two of everything so each hamster will have his own food dish, water, exercise wheel, sleeping area and general space.