Octopus is a common ingredient in Japanese cuisine, including sushi, takoyaki and akashiyaki. Takoyaki is a ball-shaped snack made of a wheat flour-based batter and cooked in a special takoyaki pan. It is typically filled with minced or diced octopus (tako), tempura scraps (tenkasu), pickled ginger, and green onion. Takoyaki are brushed with takoyaki sauce, similar to Worcestershire sauce, and mayonnaise. In Galicia, polbo a á (feira market fair style) octopus is a local. Delicacy restaurants which specialize or serve this dish are known as. Pulperias pulperías On the tunisian Island, of djerba local people catch octopuses by taking advantage of' the animals habit of hiding in safe places during. the night
Octopus is lean and high in protein. Octopus, like nearly all seafood, is lean and low in calories. A 3-ounce serving of octopus has less than 150 calories and more than 25 grams of protein. Octopus is naturally low in fat, but it is high in cholesterol, which can be harmful if you consume too much. This type of seafood is full of several key nutrients, including trace minerals and vitamin B-12.
An octopus (/ˈɒktəpʊs/ or /ˈɒktəpəs/ ; plural: octopuses, octopi, or octopodes; see below) is a cephalopod mollusc of the order Octopoda. It has two eyes and four pairs of arms and, like other cephalopods, it is bilaterally symmetric. An octopus has a beak, with its mouth at the center point of the arms. The giant Pacific octopus, Enteroctopus dofleini, is often cited as the largest known octopus species. Adults usually weigh around 15 kg (33 lb), with an arm span of up to 4.3 m (14 ft). The largest specimen of this species to be scientifically documented was an animal with a live mass of 71 kg (156.5 lb).
Best Answer: Octopus and squid are two completely different species. The Italian word for squid is calamari. In America we use the word calamari to mean deep-fried squid. Since the Italian word for octopus is polipo, maybe that's what you have heard cooked octopus called. Final answer: Polipo.
Octopus is a common food in Mediterranean cuisine such as Portuguese cuisine or Tunisian cuisine. In Galicia, polbo a á (feira market fair style) octopus is a local. delicacy In Galicia, polbo a á (feira market fair style) octopus is a local. Delicacy restaurants which specialize or serve this dish are known as. Pulperias pulperías On the tunisian Island, of djerba local people catch octopuses by taking advantage of' the animals habit of hiding in safe places during. the night
An octopus trails its eight arms behind it as it swims. All octopuses are venomous, but only one group, the blue-ringed octopus, is known to be deadly to humans. Around 300 species are recognized, which is over one-third of the total number of known cephalopod species. The giant Pacific octopus, Enteroctopus dofleini, is often cited as the largest known octopus species. Adults usually weigh around 15 kg (33 lb), with an arm span of up to 4.3 m (14 ft). The largest specimen of this species to be scientifically documented was an animal with a live mass of 71 kg (156.5 lb).
What is the larges octopus? Enteroctopus dofleini, also known as the Giant Pacific Octopus or North Pacific Giant Octopus is the largest species of Octopus with the heaviest ever found weighing in at 600 lbs. Not quite the giants that can sink ships but an eyeful if you happen to meet one in person. 
Octopus is also known calamari, or if you live in the West Indies, it is called a Sea Cat! There are over 300 types of this oceanic cephalopod. Well known for its delicious tender texture, octopus is also a very nutritious food. It is a good-high source of 12 different vitamins and minerals! 1 First of all, octopus packs a lot of nutrition into a single serving. 2  In just one 3 oz portion, there is 510% DV for B12. 3  This vitamin is responsible for making red blood cells and helping your body use fatty acids.
An octopus get their prey by grabbing them with there tentacles. To catch there food easier, they camoflage with the ground or rocks.   An octopus get their prey by g … rabbing them with there tentacles. To catch there food easier, they camoflage with the ground or rocks. + 37 others found this useful. How does an octopus get its food? It captures and immobilises its prey with its limbs, then brings the prey toward its beak (which is keratin-the same protein that makes up your hair and nails); its beak is h … ard enough to crush shells and articulated by a thick, powerful ring of muscles.