Taking just over two weeks to move from one horoscope sign to another, Mercury is the super quick trickster planet. In Roman mythology, Mercury was the wing-footed Messenger god, and in Astrology, Mercury governs how we communicate on all levels, from basic conversation to our individual mental processes.
In the infinite variety of life, Mercury determines your fascinations, what kinds of puzzles you’ll want to work out, where you’d like to focus your mind power. Mercury’s influence on how you think can steer your career path, since you’ll likely be drawn to areas in which your mind thrives and excels.
Mercury's location in your birth chart influences all of this! Mercury never travels more than 28 degrees from the Sun, so many people will have Mercury in the same zodiac sign as their Sun.
Mercury is one of the two inner planets between the Sun and the Earth. It is therefore considered as a very personal planet. It never strays very far from the Sun and indeed is not so easy to see because of it's proximity to the Sun. Mercury appears to dart across the sky at great speed for a planet.
Mercury is also known as quicksilver and is the metal used in a thermometer because of it's highly responsive nature to changes in temperature. As such Mercury represents a principle of carrying information from one place to another or highlighting information where it is placed in a birthchart.
Mercury rules or is at home in two astrological signs, Gemini and Virgo. The sign of Gemini is known for it's ability to connect ideas together. It is also known for it's love of information of all kinds.
Mercury in Astrology. Mercury relates astrologically more to our internal and personal life than to life outside. Mercury is not only the messenger from god to man, but also the internal messenger: the link between the eternal and the mundane, between our soul and our personality.
Look for the Mercury symbol on your birth chart to discover the sign and house position. Then, read about each of the Mercury signs.