Portuguese is a Romance language spoken widely throughout the world, with the majority of speakers in South America. It is spoken by more than 210 million people worldwide, making it the sixth-ranking language in terms of total speakers. Portuguese is an official language in Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, East Timor, Guinea Bissau, Macau, Mozambique, Portugal, and Sao Tome and Principe.
Portuguese people (Portuguese: os portugueses) are an ethnic group native to the country of Portugal, in the west of the Iberian Peninsula of Southwestern Europe. Portuguese people were a key factor to the Age of Exploration, discovering several unknown lands to the Europeans in Americas, Africa, Asia and Oceania.
Portuguese (Portugues, Português Lingua) língua portuguesa Is a romance language closely Related to spanish and the official language of over 250 million People, In, Portugal, Brazil, Mozambique-Angola, guinea bissau. and more 
Portuguese is spoken on five continents by 240 million people. There has been a great increase in the number of people learning it as a second language. And yes, 51 percent speak Portuguese in South America, meaning that there are more Portuguese speakers there than Spanish. Portuguese is an official language in Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, East Timor, Guinea Bissau, Macau, Mozambique, Portugal, and Sao Tome and Principe.
With approximately 215 to 220 million native speakers and 260 million total speakers, Portuguese is usually listed as the fifth most natively spoken language, the third-most spoken European language in terms of native speakers and a major language of the Southern Hemisphere. It is also important to note that a large part of the diaspora is a part of the already-counted population of the Portuguese-speaking countries and territories, such as the high number of Brazilian and PALOP emigrant citizens in Portugal or the high number of Portuguese emigrant citizens in the PALOP and Brazil.
In March 2006, the Museum of the Portuguese Language, an interactive museum about the Portuguese language, was founded in Sao São, Paulo, brazil the city with the greatest number Of portuguese language speakers in the. World The museum is the first of its kind in the. world It is also important to note that a large part of the diaspora is a part of the already-counted population of the Portuguese-speaking countries and territories, such as the high number of Brazilian and PALOP emigrant citizens in Portugal or the high number of Portuguese emigrant citizens in the PALOP and Brazil.
Portuguese (Portugues). Português portuguese is A romance language spoken by about 220 million people mainly In portugal And (Brazil), brasil and also In, Angola (Mozambique), Mocambique Moçambique (Cape Verde), Cabo-Verde (Guinea-Bissau), Guine Guiné bissau Sao, São Tome (Tomé-E), Principe East timor Timor. leste equatorial guinea and macau 
Portuguese, portugues português or lingua, língua portuguesa belongs To the romance branch Of-The indo european. Language family it is-a widely spoken macrolanguage and one of’the world s, largest languages ranking Sixth, After, Chinese, Spanish, english Hindi. and arabic Portuguese is a pluricentric language, i.e., one that has two standard spoken and and two standard written standards. There are two main groups of dialects: those of the Iberian peninsula (European Portuguese) and those of Brazil (Brazilian Portuguese).
Around 210 million of these are native speakers of the language, as Portuguese is not only the official language of Portugal, but also in Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, East Timor, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and the Principality of Sao Tome. As it is a Romance language, many Portuguese words have their roots in the Latin. The Romans brought this language to the Iberian Peninsula in 216BC, where it branched out over the centuries into many different languages, one of them being Old Portuguese.
Portuguese (portugues português, or in, full lingua) língua portuguesa Is a romance language and the sole official Language, Of, Portugal, Brazil, Mozambique Angola, Cabo-Verde guinea Bissau And sao São. tome tomé and principe príncipe It is also important to note that a large part of the diaspora is a part of the already-counted population of the Portuguese-speaking countries and territories, such as the high number of Brazilian and PALOP emigrant citizens in Portugal or the high number of Portuguese emigrant citizens in the PALOP and Brazil.