The cost to place and lift a freeze, and how long the freeze lasts, depend on state law: In many states, identity theft victims can place a freeze for free, but in others, victims must pay a fee, which is usually about $10. If you have a police report, you may be able to place or lift a freeze for free. 
Yes. You can have a security freeze lifted, either for a temporary period of time, or for a specific creditor. There is a $10 charge for temporarily or permanently lifting the security freeze or a $12 charge for allowing a specific creditor to access your credit report. The steps to do so are as follows: • Contact the consumer reporting agencies above. The consumer reporting agency is not allowed to charge a fee for placing a security freeze the first time, but a later request may cost $10. However, for each temporary lifting for a period of time or for permanent removal there is a $10 fee.
Credit Freeze. Georgia's credit freeze law provides Georgia consumers with the ability to place a freeze on their credit file for only $3, or a total of $9 for each of the three major credit-reporting agencies: Equifax, Experian and TransUnion. Placing a credit freeze is also free to senior citizens 65 or older, but they can be charged $3 for lifting or removing the freeze.
Visit each credit bureau’s site to get more information about placing a security freeze on your credit report. The fee schedule is typically between $3 and $10 and varies by state, but all security freeze services are free if you have been a victim of identity theft. 1  Equifax: Freeze Your Equifax Credit Report, 1-800-685-1111 (NY residents 1-800-349-9960).
Free. First Free (Subsequent $10 each). If you are a victim of identity theft, no fees will be charged to place a security freeze on your Equifax credit file or for a replacement 10-digit PIN. For protected consumers or minors, Equifax does not currently charge a fee for any freeze request even if allowed by the state. Please refer to  How to place a security freeze  for more information on how to freeze your file. State.
The $30.83 charge to freeze your reports at all three credit bureaus will be worth it for many, however. The D/FW-Arlington area ranked fourth in identity theft complaints in 2005, according to the latest data from the Federal Trade Commission. 
You will also get instructions on how to lift the freeze by using your PIN. The credit bureaus must lift your freeze within three days. For consumers under 65 years of age, the fee for lifting the freeze temporarily is $10 for a date-range lift or for a lift for a specific creditor. For consumers 65 years of age or older, the fee for either type of temporary lift is $5. That is a total of $30 to freeze your files. If you are not an identity theft victim and you are 65 years of age or older, it will cost you $5 to place a freeze with each of the three credit bureaus. That is a total of $15 to freeze your files
If you are the victim of identity theft, there is no charge for a credit freeze. Placing a credit freeze is also free to senior citizens 65 or older, but they can be charged $3 for lifting or removing the freeze. A credit freeze can be a powerful weapon against identity theft
Not Available. If you or a protected consumer are a victim of identity theft and you submit a copy of a valid police report documenting the identity theft, no fees will be charged to place a security freeze on your Equifax credit file or for a replacement 10-digit PIN. For protected consumers or minors, Equifax does not currently charge a fee for any freeze request even if allowed by the state. Please refer to  How to place a security freeze  for more information on how to freeze your file. State.