In-Wall Ready Cord. I invented the In-Wall Ready Cord because I was looking for a more convenient way to store extension cords and to have them readily available. It seemed every time I needed an extension cord I had to find one. Sometimes the cord wasn’t long enough; other times it was too long (which can be a safety hazard in a garage or workshop); and all too often they were tangled and knotted.
NEMA-1 extension cord, common in the United States. An extension cord, power extender, or extension lead is a length of flexible electrical power cable (flex) with a plug on one end and one or more sockets on the other end (usually of the same type as the plug). A power strip is a block on the end of a power cable with a number of sockets (usually 3 or more), often arranged in a line. This term is also used to refer to the whole unit of a short extension cord terminating in a power strip.
There is not enough wires in the cord. You would need a 4 wire cab-tire rated at 30 amps. Home extension cords at the most are rated at #12 conductor and that is only good for a draw of 20 amps. Cornelius Mertzlufft-Paufler. * Blue in Europe and other countries using a similar 50 Hz household AC power system. The Grounding or Earth wire is colored: * Green in a cord or flex in the US, Canada and other countries using a similar 6
If the plug and power outlet are of different types, the term adapter cord may be used. Extension cable is also used, but that has a distinct meaning from extension cord. A power strip is a block on the end of a power cable with a number of sockets (usually 3 or more), often arranged in a line. This term is also used to refer to the whole unit of a short extension cord terminating in a power strip.
In the United States where the domestic voltage is 120 V, the National Electrical Code (NEC) prohibits the use of extension cords in a 20 A circuit unless they are of 16 AWG or larger diameter (for example, 14 AWG or 12 AWG). A power strip is a block on the end of a power cable with a number of sockets (usually 3 or more), often arranged in a line. This term is also used to refer to the whole unit of a short extension cord terminating in a power strip.
Users who liked, I invented the cordless extension cord., also liked. 
Yes, as long as the extension cord is rated for the load. Most microwave ovens use 1000W or more, some less. A standard two wire extension cord would be unsafe. There are, how … ever, extension cords which have the proper gauge of wire and the necessary 3-prong outlets which a microwave would need to operate safely. Hold your left hand … out, palm up. Hold one end of the extension cord between your thumb and palm with the loose end beyond your thumb. With your right hand, measure out about 3 feet or so and loop it around your left hand just like you would think is correct.
In a cord or flex for a small electrical appliance there is always a Hot or Live wire, a Neutral wire and maybe also a Ground or Earth wire. The Hot or Live wire … is colored: * Black in the US, Canada and other countries using a similar 60 Hz household AC power system. * Blue in Europe and other countries using a similar 50 Hz household AC power system. The Grounding or Earth wire is colored: * Green in a cord or flex
The extension cord was invented in 1904 by S. W. Atherton, an  American inventor and electrical engineer. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Nicola. 429,998 Contributions. I'm an English Language graduate with a love for books and all things language related. Hold your left hand … out, palm up. Hold one end of the extension cord between your thumb and palm with the loose end beyond your thumb. With your right hand, measure out about 3 feet or so and loop it around your left hand just like you would think is correct.