Explain how energy can be changed from one form to another, e.g. chemical energy to heat energy. bhollist@us.ibm.com. It's important to accept that energy is an abstraction. It's not some sort of invisible stuff that flows from one object to another. 
Energy has always existed in one form or another. Here are some changes in energy from one form to another. Stored energy in a flashlight's batteries becomes light energy when the flashlight is turned on. Food is stored energy. It is stored as a chemical with potential energy. When your body uses that stored energy to do work, it becomes kinetic energy. 
Consider, for example, a diagram that charts the energy change when a candle burns. Wax (C 34 H 70) combusts in the presence of oxygen (O 2) to yield carbon dioxide (CO 2) and water (H 2 O). Because more energy is released when the products are formed than is used to break up the reactants, this reaction is exothermic. In exothermic reactions, more energy is released when the bonds are formed in the products than is used to break the bonds in the reactants. Exothermic reactions are accompanied by an increase in temperature of the reaction mixture.
1 If two substances react and the temperature of the mixture increases, the reaction is exothermic. 2  A chemical reaction involves the breaking of bonds in the reactants and the forming of bonds in the products. 3  It takes energy to break bonds. 4  Energy is released when bonds are formed. It took more energy to break the bonds of the reactants than was released when the bonds in the products were formed. Project the animation Endothermic Reaction. Remind students that a chemical reaction involves the breaking of bonds in the reactants and the mak
By comparing the energy absorbed when bonds in the reactants are broken with the energy released when bonds in the products are formed, you can determine whether a chemical reaction releases energy or absorbs energy overall. Brittny. Chemical reactions that release energy are called exothermic. In exothermic reactions, more energy is released when the bonds are formed in the products than is used to break the bonds in the reactants. Exothermic reactions are accompanied by an increase in temperature of the reaction mixture.
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION. Electromagnetic energy is the same as radiation or light. This type of energy can take the form of visible light, like the light from a candle or a light bulb, or invisible waves, like radio waves, microwaves, x-rays and gamma rays. Radiation — whether it’s coming from a candle or an x-ray tube — can travel in a vacuum. Most of the energy is converted to thermal energy, which is an unorganized form of energy that is difficult to convert into a useful form. Power plants transform one form of energy into a very useful form, electricity.
Food, biomass, fuel and explosives have a store of chemical energy. The energy from food is released by chemical reactions in our bodies in the form of heat. Fuels like coal, oil and natural gas contain chemical energy that may be converted into other forms of energy like heat and light. In this lesson, we are going to look at the forms that energy exists, namely: heat, light, sound, electrical, chemical, nuclear and mechanical. These forms of energy may be transformed from one form to the other, usually with losses.
The dry wood is a store of chemical energy. As it burns in the fireplace, chemical energy is released and converted to thermal energy (heat) and light energy. Notice that the wood now turns into ashes (a new substance). Food is also a good example of stored chemical energy. This energy is released during digestion. Molecules in our food are broken down into smaller pieces. As the bonds between these atoms loosen or break, a chemical reaction will occur, and new compounds are created.
All of the many forms of energy are convertible to other kinds of energy, and obey the law of conservation of energy which says that energy can be neither created nor be destroyed; however, it can change from one form to another. 
A reaction in which energy is released to the surroundings is called an exothermic reaction. In this type of reaction the enthalpy, or stored chemical energy, is lower for the products than the reactants. The release of energy in chemical reactions occurs when the reactants have higher chemical energy than the products. The chemical energy in a substance is a type of potential energy stored within the substance. This stored chemical potential energy is the heat content or enthalpy of