1 Preheat the oven to 200 degrees C. Trim any excess fat from the lamb racks. 2  Cut small slits in the top of the lamb with a small, sharp knife. 3  Insert slices of garlic and small pieces of rosemary into the slits. 4  Sit the lamb on a plate. Directions. 1 
1 (If you are not going to cook them within 2 hours, refrigerate, then bring to room temperature an hour before cooking.). 2  Preheat oven to 425° F. Heat a roasting pan in the oven for 10 minutes. 3  Pat the racks of lamb dry with paper towels and coat lightly with the olive oil. Directions. 1  Prepare the racks of lamb at least 1 hour (or up to 4 hours) before cooking: Chop together the garlic, salt, rosemary, and pepper to make a coarse rub. 2  Rub the racks with the mixture, cover, and set aside.
Directions. Preheat oven to 500 degrees F. Season lamb with salt and pepper. Brush lamb with Dijon mustard, to coat. Dredge in breadcrumbs. Place on a rack into the oven for 20 minutes. Remove and allow to rest for 10 minutes. Slice and serve. Recipe courtesy of Kathleen Daelema
1 Preheat the oven to fan 200C/ conventional 220C/gas 7. Season the lamb generously with salt and pepper. 2  Heat a large, heavy frying pan over a moderately high heat and brown two of the racks well on the meaty sides for about 1-2 minutes, then turn and brown the other sides for a further 1 minute. 
For a nice rare lamb rack, 25 to 30 minutes is a good guide. When you’re happy with the doneness of your lamb, remove the tray from the oven. Remove the lamb from the roasting tray and put the vegetables back in the oven. Let the lamb rest on a board for 5 to 8 minutes, then carve – aim to get two bones per person. Serve with the lovely roasted vegetables. Put the lamb right on top of the vegetables in your roasting dish. Put into your hot oven and roast – see cooking times below. Cooking times: A rough guide is 25 minutes for every 450g of meat, but it all depends on your oven. A good way to test for doneness is to give the meat a bit of a squeeze with your fingers.
3 Preheat oven to 450°F, arrange the oven rack so that the lamb will be in the middle of the oven. Score the fat, by making sharp shallow cuts through the fat, spaced about an inch apart. Sprinkle the rack all over with salt and pepper. Place the lamb rack bone side down (fat side up) on the pan. 
1 Preheat oven to 425° F. Heat a roasting pan in the oven for 10 minutes. 2  Pat the racks of lamb dry with paper towels and coat lightly with the olive oil. 3  Place the racks flesh-side down in the pan. Directions. 1  Prepare the racks of lamb at least 1 hour (or up to 4 hours) before cooking: Chop together the garlic, salt, rosemary, and pepper to make a coarse rub. 2  Rub the racks with the mixture, cover, and set aside.
1 You can brown a rack of lamb on the stove first. 2  Sear each side over medium-high heat for two to three minutes in 2 tbsp. of olive oil. 3  Add a splash of red or white wine or minced garlic and lemon juice to the pan for flavoring. 4  Then, roast the lamb at 400 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Directions. 1  Prepare the racks of lamb at least 1 hour (or up to 4 hours) before cooking: Chop together the garlic, salt, rosemary, and pepper to make a coarse rub. 2  Preheat oven to 425° F. Heat a roasting pan in the oven for 10 minutes. Directions. 1  Prepare the racks of lamb at least 1 hour (or up to 4 hours) before cooking: Chop together the garlic, salt, rosemary, and pepper to make a coarse rub. 2  Rub the racks with the mixture, cover, and set aside.