As a result, most people, including health professionals, will date your pregnancy based on your LMP (last menstrual period) instead (NHS 2013a) . To work out how many weeks pregnant you are by this measure, try to remember when your last period started. The first day of your LMP counts as day one of your pregnancy. 1 Your second trimester lasts from when you're 14 weeks to 27 weeks plus six days pregnant. 2  During this trimester you'll probably feel much better. 3  You may start to bloom, your bump will show and early pregnancy symptoms will be behind you.
You may have a shorter or longer cycle than 28 days and you may have ovulated any time in between! But for the sake of a date, everyone’s pregnancy is calculated based on an average. Therefore when you miss your first period, you’re already 4 weeks pregnant. Okay, got it, but how many weeks am I, you ask…. To find out how many weeks you are, use our pregnancy calculator. It will give you an estimated due date and estimated date of conception. It will also tell you how many weeks pregnant you are, and how long you have to go until you reach the end of full term pregnancy at 42 weeks. 
Some women prefer to count their pregnancy from the day that they were likely to be ovulating during the month in which they became pregnant. This will give you an estimated date of conception, which will usually be about two weeks after the first day of your LMP. So you will be two weeks further along in your pregnancy if it's calculated according to your LMP rather than your estimated date of conception. 1 Your second trimester lasts from when you're 14 weeks to 27 weeks plus six days pregnant. 2  During this trimester you'll probably feel much better. 3  You may start to bloom, your bump will show and early pregnancy symptoms will be behind you.
Report Abuse. About 26 weeks There are 187 days until your due date on October 05, 2009. You are 93 days pregnant. You are 3 months pregnant. You are in your 4th month of pregnancy. Your 1st trimester: December 29, 2008 to March 29, 2009. 
A pregnancy due date is actually calculated as 40 weeks from the first day of the last menstrual period. If you are counting “lunar months” which are only 28 days like a period cycle, then it is 10 “lunar months.” If you count full calendar months that are 30 to 31 days long, then it is really only 9 months. The doctor will estimate a due date by adding 40 weeks or 280 days to the first day of your last menstrual period. Remember, this is only an estimated date and only a small percentage of babies are actually born on the exact date.
Find how many weeks pregnant you are on the chart below and scan back to see approximately how many months pregnant you are. (Note that you're not one month pregnant until it's been one month since your LMP.). Actually, the only month that's four weeks (or 28 days) long is February – that is, when it's not a leap year. All the others are either 30 or 31 days. So, on average a month is 30.4 days long – or 4.3 weeks. 1  Click here for a printable version of this chart showing how the weeks, months, and trimesters of pregnancy line up with each other
This means when you say you're four weeks pregnant, your baby is only two weeks in the making. (The length of time after conception is sometimes called the gestational age.. So when you're eight weeks, your baby's gestational age is six weeks.) If you don't have a due date yet, check out our due date calculator. 
Using the first day of your last menstrual cycle you can figure out when you most likely conceived, how old your baby currently is, and when your baby's birth is expected. If you don't know the length of your cycle, leave that space blank and the average 28 days will be used to calculate your information. 
Find out exactly how many weeks pregnant you are and what is going on with your baby during your pregnancy and what changes to expect during pregnancy. Our pregnancy calendar and pregnancy calculator will give you details on your baby's development and what is happening to mom during her pregnancy. The BabyMed pregnancy calculator and pregnancy calendar is based on a 40 week pregnancy and is in a week by week format. Just enter your pregnancy due date or other information below to create your pregnancy calendar.