A beef roast cooked to medium-rare should have an internal temperature of 145°F - 150ºF after the resting period, and a roast cooked to medium should have an internal temperature of 150°F to 160ºF. (See the note below). See Beef Doneness for more information on proper cooking temperatures. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer.
How long and at what temperature should I cook a beef roast in the oven? Roasting is a great cooking method for a large, tender cut of beef  such as a rib or sirloin roast. Sirloin-tip, rump, rolled-rump, eye-of-round or top-round roasts will also benefit from this cooking method if they are graded prime or choice. Cooking at a constant oven temperature of 300°F (160°C), a 5- to 8-lb standing rib roast will take 17-19 minutes per pound for rare, 20-22 for medium rare, 23-25 minutes for medium, and 27-30 minutes for well done.
1 Cook the roast for about 10 to 15 minutes and then turn it over in the pan. 2  Continue to cook it for another 10 to 15 minutes for every pound. 3  Remove the tenderloin from the oven when the internal temperature of the meat reaches 140°F, as indicated on a meat thermometer inserted into the center of the roast. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer.
The oven temperature used to cook a beef roast is usually set somewhere between 300 degrees and 450 degrees Fahrenheit. The recommended cooking temperature for your roast is usually determined by the type of beef cut that you plan to roast. There are even a few beef roasts, especially some of the tougher roasts from the round or chuck, that are best when cooked with high heat at the start (to sear the outside of the meat and seal in the juices) and then cooked at a lower temperature to finish the roast.
Place roast in pan and ... degrees. Cook roast beef as follows 4 ... for well done. Turn oven off. Leave roast in oven for 2 hours. DO NOT OPEN OVEN DOORS! 
Step 1. Preheat your oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit for a pot roast from the round; 425 degrees for a pot roast from the chuck; and 350 degrees for a pot roast from the rib. The weight and type of roast determines the cooking time; you should cook a roast until its internal temperature is between 135 and 150 degrees F. For instance, a 2- to 3-lb. rump roast cooks for 1 ½ to 2 hours to medium-rare doneness, the Cattlemen's Beef Board and National Cattlemen's Beef Association website advises. Generally, the final internal temperature, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, for a medium-rare pot roast should be around 145 degrees F after 15 to 20 minutes of standing time. The final internal temperature for a medium-done pot roast should be around 160 degrees after 15 to 20 minutes'
3. Cooking Temperature. There are varying opinions about what the perfect temperature to cook a roast beef but in my experience starting the beef in a very hot oven 425F/220C/Gas 7 for the first 30 mins then lower the temperature to 375F/190C/Gas5 for the remaining cooking time then .... The best joints for roast beef are either a Rib of Beef, a Sirloin or a Fillet. Rib works well as usually it will be cooked on the bone as keeping the bone in makes for a tastier piece of beef when cooked but both Sirloin and Fillet are also very good.
That is the beauty of the meat thermometer as it is an accurate way of measuring that internal temperature of the meat during cooking. How to tell when your beef, lamb, veal or goat is done. When your meat is done (be it a steak or a roast), the internal temperature of the meat will be: 1  Rare 60ºC. 2  Medium rare 60-65ºC. Tips for using a meat thermometer when cooking. 1  With a roast-place the thermometer in the roast before cooking. 2  The end of the thermometer should be inserted into thickest part of the roast away from any bone and rest half way into the thickness of the meat.
Beef-Lamb-Veal Roasts-Steaks-Chops. For roasts of lamb, beef, or veal: place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Residual Heat or Carry-Over Cooking: Remember, the steak will continue to cook as it sets. The temperature will rise 5 degrees F. to 10 degrees F. internal temperature. Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly.