PEMF—what is it? PEMF is an electro-magnetic field applied to a painful or dysfunctional area of the body. What makes this therapy so powerful is two things: the strength of the magnetic field generated by the machine; and the pulsating of the field around the part of the body that is not functioning properly. Pulsed Electro-Magnetic Field (PEMF) Therapy. There is a therapy that perfectly complements chiropractic care called “pulsed electro-magnetic field” (PEMF) therapy.
Pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) therapy is a new approach to pain management that uses magnets to create pulsing, moving energy. PEMF therapy is Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved to fuse bones and has been cleared in certain devices to reduce swelling and joint pain. 
What you should know before buying a Pulsed Electromagnetic Field (PEMF) device. Purchasing a Pulsed Electromagnetic Field (PEMF) therapy unit for your home is a great investment in your health, and in the health of your family. Before you invest in a system, make sure you are getting the best possible unit for your needs. 
Pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) therapy has been used to treat almost every conceivable human illness or malady, including many inflammatory diseases such as arthritis or psoriasis and you don’t have to wait for the FDA to approve this treatment for your kind of cancer. If you intend to use the system for more than one treatment cycle in a row, you may want to put a towel between you and the paddle so that the heat does not become uncomfortable. I have been using pulsing electro-magnetic field therapy for about three years now.
In 2004, pulsed electromagnetic field system was approved by FDA as an adjunct to cervical fusion surgery in patients at high risk for non-fusion. Today, there is a wide variety of professional and consumer PEMF devices that are sold on the internet as wellness devices. Transcranial magnetic stimulation is FDA approved since 2011 for use on patients that failed to respond to antidepressants. Weak magnetic stimulation of the brain is often called transcranial pulsed electromagnetic field (tPEMF) therapy.
Pulsed Electro-Magnetic Field (PEMF) Therapy There is a therapy that perfectly complements chiropractic care called “pulsed electro-magnetic field” (PEMF) therapy. PEMF is the perfect complement to chiropractic care due to its effect on cellular function. Pulsed Electro-Magnetic Field (PEMF) Therapy.
Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (PEMFT), also called pulsed magnetic therapy, pulse magnetotherapy, or PEMF, is a reparative technique most commonly used in the field of orthopedics for the treatment of non-union fractures, failed fusions, congenital pseudarthrosis and depression. Transcranial magnetic stimulation is FDA approved since 2011 for use on patients that failed to respond to antidepressants. Weak magnetic stimulation of the brain is often called transcranial pulsed electromagnetic field (tPEMF) therapy.
Disclaimer: Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (PEMF) has been approved by health authorities as medical therapy for human applications. In the European Community the Curatron devices are certified as medical devices according to the Medical Device Directive 93/42/EEC. In the following sections you will find comprehensive explanations about the technology behind pulsed electromagnetic field therapy. These pages were created in order to assist non-experts to understand what the really important features of the PEMFT device are and how they will work best for you.
Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (PEMFT), also called pulsed magnetic therapy, pulse magnetotherapy, or PEMF, is a reparative technique most commonly used in the field of orthopedics for the treatment of non-union fractures, failed fusions, congenital pseudarthrosis and depression. If you intend to use the system for more than one treatment cycle in a row, you may want to put a towel between you and the paddle so that the heat does not become uncomfortable. I have been using pulsing electro-magnetic field therapy for about three years now.
PEMF therapy does not treat medical conditions; instead it up-regulates the body’s functions and optimizes the body’s ability to heal itself. PEMF provides stunning regenerative effects because these magnetic fields result in cells generating so much naturally derived energy that they are able to heal themselves. If you intend to use the system for more than one treatment cycle in a row, you may want to put a towel between you and the paddle so that the heat does not become uncomfortable. I have been using pulsing electro-magnetic field therapy for about three years now.