Symptoms of sulfite sensitivity usually begin 15 to 30 minutes after eating and include asthma-like symptoms, hives, facial swelling or gastrointestinal discomfort. Foods containing more than 10 parts per million of sulfites must list sulfites on the ingredient list. Manufacturers add sulfites to processed foods as a preservative and to improve its appearance. Many people with sulfite sensitivity consider it an allergy, but sulfite sensitivity differs from an allergy. Allergies develop to proteins in foods. A sulfite doesn't contain proteins; it is a salt of sulfurous acid. If you have asthma, you have a higher risk of developing sulfite sensitivity.
Fruit. A variety of fruits in many forms contain sulfites. These include canned and frozen fruits, fruit fillings, syrups, jams, jellies and preserves. Dried fruits, such as apricots, coconuts and raisins also contain sulfites, along with glazed fruits like maraschino cherries. Overview. Many foods contain sulfites, which are inorganic salts, as a preservative. Sulfites prevent foods from browning, control the growth of micro-organisms and bleach certain food starches and cherries. Some people can develop a sensitivity to sulfit
A: Sulfites are a group of sulfur-based compounds that occur naturally in many foods and may be added to some foods and pharmaceuticals as a preservative. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) estimates that one percent of the population is sensitive to sulfites and says that many of those people have asthma. 
Sulfites in foods are often placed there as a preservative. While most governments have banned the use of sulfites in foods like fresh fruits and vegetables, they are still commonly used to preserve dried fruits, wine making, and to preserve seafood and other meats. 
Strawberries, blackberries, plums, coconut and other fruits also contain varying amounts of natural sulfites. Label reading is key to avoiding sulfites. Avoid any foods with sulfite or sulphite in the ingredients list. Focus on whole foods, including fruits and vegetables without naturally occurring sulfites. Eat fresh meats, dairy, grains, legumes and healthy oils. Try an elimination diet to help pinpoint foods that cause reactions.
Foods That Contain Sulfites. by Allergy Guy. Here is a partial list of foods that can contain sulfites. Note that all fermented products, such as beer and wine, contain natural sulfites. They can also contain added sulfites. According to Quality Attibutes and Their Measurement in Meat, Poultry and Fish Products By Albert Marchant Pearson, sulfites are excellent at preserving the colour of fresh meat.
Dried fruits often contain sulfites to preserve their color. Fruit products that contain sulfites include canned, bottled and frozen fruit juices, glazed fruits, fruit toppings and maraschino cherries. Foods with sulfites, like hot dogs, can cause an allergic reaction in some people. Photo Credit hot dog image by dinostock from Fotolia.com. Sulfites are used in the food industry to prevent oxidation and spoilage of food, preserve flavor, control bacterial growth and bleach food starches.
Peanuts, eggs, black tea, vinegar and other fermented foods contain natural sulfites. So do some otherwise healthy vegetables, including broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, kale, garlic, onions, chives and leeks. Rapeseed, which is used in canola oil, is another culprit. Avoid any foods with sulfite or sulphite in the ingredients list. Focus on whole foods, including fruits and vegetables without naturally occurring sulfites. Eat fresh meats, dairy, grains, legumes and healthy oils. Try an elimination diet to help pinpoint foods that cause reactions.
Restaurant salad bars were once a major source of sulfites. Sulfite sensitivity affects around 1 percent of Americans, according to the University of Florida. Many people with sulfite sensitivity consider it an allergy, but sulfite sensitivity differs from an allergy. Allergies develop to proteins in foods. A sulfite doesn't contain proteins; it is a salt of sulfurous acid. If you have asthma, you have a higher risk of developing sulfite sensitivity.