1 5 to 8 Years-This is the max age bearded dragons get in the wild and is generally how long a dragon will live if their owner just does the basics and doesn't pay any attention to their bearded dragon's diet Learn about the bearded dragon's health and diet. or health. The bearded dragon's scientific name is Pogona Vitticeps and they are medium sized lizards which are generally 12-24 inches in length from their head to the tip of their tail.
Average Bearded Dragon Cost. 1  The age of the dragon Learn how long bearded dragons live. - 2  younger bearded dragons are cheaper. 3  Where you buy your dragon-pet stores and private dealers will have different prices. 4  The type of bearded dragonLearn the different types of bearded dragons you can get. Most pet stores will sell you young bearded dragons between the prices of $30-$60 and the larger (more mature) bearded dragons can cost up to $100. Besides the cost of your bearded dragon you're going to need to get the necessary supplies.
The Age of the Bearded Dragon. Your bearded dragon's age will play a big part in the price. If a dragon is very young then he or she will be cheaper to buy. Most pet stores will sell you young bearded dragons between the prices of $30-$60 and the larger (more mature) bearded dragons can cost up to $100. Besides the cost of your bearded dragon you're going to need to get the necessary supplies.
Next. i have a bearded dragon and i have had it for about four months it is now 6 months old. We are keeping good care of it and giving it veg and crickets size 4 and i was just wondering how long they live for!! Update: mine is a german giant bearded dragons and at 6-7 months is 30 cm. Follow. 7 answers 7
Bearded dragons can live over 20 years of age if they are properly taken care of but over 30 is kinda pushing it. Actually 20 years is really pushing it. Prior to the recent s … urge in breeding of dragons they lived about 12-15 years if well cared for. Due to the increase in breeding and inbreeding these days they will live for about 7-10 years if very well cared for.
Bearded Dragons live about 10-15 years with proper care in captivity, though some can live up to 20 years old. Bearded Dragons are omnivorous, consuming many different sorts of plants and animals. In the wild, Bearded Dragon live in places that are dry and sparsely vegetated, so food may often be difficult to find. 
Genus/species: Pogona vitticeps. Description. Inland bearded dragons are 13 to 24 inches (33 to 61 cm) long, including the tail. They are appropriately named bearded dragons because of their beard, an expandable dewlap with spiky scales. They have a broad, triangular head, round bodies, stout legs, and robust tail
With proper care, your beardie should reach 10 years old. BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images. Due to the absence of predators and the availability of a wide range of nutritious foods, bearded dragons live longer as pets than they do in the wild. With proper care, you can enjoy the companionship of your bearded dragon from seven to 10 years on average. The longest-lived bearded dragons in captivity live as long as 12 years. 
Depending on species, bearded dragons will cost from $60 up to $200. Pygmy bearded dragons are most expensive, though strong colour variations will fetch up to $400. Enclosure set-up, including heating lamps, UV lights, thermostats, thermometers, shelter, ornaments and surface material will cost between $500 – $1000. 