Phospholipids make up an important class of lipids for the construction of cell membranes. The phospholipids are not true fats because they have one of the fatty acids replaced by a phosphate group. This sketch of a phospholipid molecule shows two fatty acids and a phosphate group attached to a glycerol backbone. Stearic acid is shown as the fatty acid, but there are many variations in the fatty acids. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Phospholipids make up the structure of the lipid bilayer found in the membrane of cells. Primarily, it's main job is to keep the things that are on the inside of a cell inside, and keep what things are outside the cell on the outside. 
Your cells are surrounded by a very important type of lipid, called phospholipids. Phospholipids consist of a hydrophilic (or 'water loving') head and a hydrophobic (or 'water fearing') tail. Phospholipids like to line up and arrange themselves into two parallel layers, called a phospholipid bilayer.
A cell membrane is composed of a double layer of phospholipids, more commonly referred to as a phospholipid bilayer, and each phospholipid itself is important to the structure … and function of the cell membrane. A phospholipid is made up of a hydrophobic (water-avoiding) tail and a hydrophilic (water-liking) head. the OH group in C1 is esterified with a saturated Fatty acid. the OH group iin C2 is esterified with unsaturated fatty acid.
Phospholipids are a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes. They can form lipid bilayers because of their amphiphilic characteristic. The structure of the phospholipid molecule generally consists of two hydrophobic fatty acid tails and a hydrophilic head consisting of a phosphate group. The two components are joined together by a glycerol molecule. The phosphate groups can be modified with simple organic molecules such as choline
Structure of Phospholipids. Your body is a complicated machine, so you may be surprised to learn that important biological molecules that make up living things fall into only four main classes: carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids. Phospholipids consist of a hydrophilic (or 'water loving') head and a hydrophobic (or 'water fearing') tail. Phospholipids like to line up and arrange themselves into two parallel layers, called a phospholipid bilayer.
Phospholipids. A phospholipid is composed of two fatty acids, a glycerol unit, a phosphate group and a polar molecule. Photo Credit: Image credit: Ties van Brussel / Tiesworks.nl. Phospholipids belong to the lipid family of biological polymers.
Structure. Phospholipids are composed of two fatty acid tails attached to a glycerol head, according to Biology: Concepts and Connections.. The glycerol attaches to a phosphate group. The head is hydrophillic, meaning it's attracted to water. The tail is hydrophobic, or resistant to water.
Phospholipids make up the basic structure of a cell membrane. A single phospholipid molecule has two different ends: a head and a tail. The head end contains a phosphate group and is hydrophilic. This means that it likes or is attracted to water molecules. Phospholipids form the basic structure of a cell membrane, called the lipid bilayer. Scattered in the lipid bilayer are cholesterol molecules, which help to keep the membrane fluid consistent. Membrane proteins are important for transporting substances across the cell membrane.