Background. Cotton is a shrubby plant that is a member of the Mallow family. Its name refers to the cream-colored fluffy fibers surrounding small cottonseeds called a boll. The small, sticky seeds must be separated from the wool in order to process the cotton for spinning and weaving. 
1 Cotton is from the cotton plant (gossypium). 2  The cotton fibre grows around the seed pod of the plant, and the colour of the soft fibre varies from white to a greyish yellow. 3  When the cotton boll is ready for harvesting, the cotton boll is picked. Cotton is produced in 80 countries around the world. The plant grows in dry semi-humid conditions. 1  Cotton is from the cotton plant (gossypium). 2  The cotton fibre grows around the seed pod of the plant, and the colour of the soft fibre varies from white to a greyish yellow.
Shiny cotton is a processed version of the fiber that can be made into cloth resembling satin for shirts and suits. However, it is hydrophobic (does not absorb water easily), which makes it unfit for use in bath and dish towels (although examples of these made from shiny cotton are seen). Bed sheets often are made from cotton. Cotton also is used to make yarn used in crochet and knitting. Fabric also can be made from recycled or recovered cotton that otherwise would be thrown away during the spinning, weaving, or cutting process.
Cotton is a soft, fluffy staple fiber that grows in a boll, or protective case, around the seeds of cotton plants of the genus Gossypium in the family of Malvaceae. The fiber is almost pure cellulose. Under natural conditions, the cotton bolls will tend to increase the dispersal of the seeds. Bed sheets often are made from cotton. Cotton also is used to make yarn used in crochet and knitting. Fabric also can be made from recycled or recovered cotton that otherwise would be thrown away during the spinning, weaving, or cutting process.
Tweet. : a soft, white material that grows on the seeds of a tall plant and that is used to make cloth; also: the plants on which this material grows. : cloth that is made of cotton; also: clothing that is made of this cloth. : yarn that is made of cotton. 1.
Cotton is a plant that produces fibers, which are used to make clothes and other products, like towels, carpets or sheets. Clothes made out of cotton are especially light and comfortable. You can make oil or margarine out of the seeds of the cotton plant. The leaves and stalks of the cotton plant are plowed into the ground to make the soil better. Other parts of the plant are fed to animals.
Cotton is a natural fiber harvested from the cotton plant. It is one of the oldest fibers under human cultivation, with traces over 7,000 years old recovered from archaeological sites. Cotton is not made from a polymer. It is a natural fiber. It comes from the cotton plant. It is like linen or silk --
Cotton grows on a plant. answ2. Cotton is a plant with the seed head enclosed in a white fluffy cover. It is this fluffy material that is harvested, cleaned of seeds and rubbi … sh, and eventually spun into a thread. In the same way as is done for wool etc. Cotton is produced in 80 countries around the world. The plant grows in dry semi-humid conditions. 1  Cotton is from the cotton plant (gossypium). 2  The cotton fibre grows around the seed pod of the plant, and the colour of the soft fibre varies from white to a greyish yellow. 3  When the cotton boll is ready for harvesting, the cotton boll is picked
What Cotton is Used For. Every part of the cotton plant can be used. The long cotton fibers are used to make cloth, the short fibers can be used in the paper industry. You can make oil or margarine out of the seeds of the cotton plant. The leaves and stalks of the cotton plant are plowed into the ground to make the soil better. Other parts of the plant are fed to animals.