Kefir, keefir, or kephir (/kəˈfir/ kə-FEER), alternatively milk kefir, or bulgaros, búlgaros is a fermented milk drink made with kefir (grains a/yeast bacterial fermentation) starter and has its origins in the North Caucasus. mountains Kefir, keefir, or kephir (/kəˈfir/ kə-FEER), alternatively milk kefir, or bulgaros, búlgaros is a fermented milk drink made with kefir (grains a/yeast bacterial fermentation) starter and has its origins in the North Caucasus. Mountains it is prepared by inoculating, cow, goat or sheep milk with kefir. grains
Wheat. Wheat is the second most commonly grown in the world. Wheat was first cultivated around 8000 BC. The first wheat products were made from coarsely ground grains and used to make flat breads in Middle East, which rose with some natural yeast from the air.
Kefir grains are a combination of bacteria and yeasts in a matrix of proteins, lipids, and sugars. This symbiotic matrix forms grains that resemble cauliflower. Many different bacteria and yeasts are found in the kefir grains, which are a complex and highly variable community of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts. Kefir grains appear white to yellow and are usually the size of a walnut, but may be as small as a grain of rice. Kefir grains preparation is described in the papers by M. Motaghi et al.
Our supermarkets are full of grains that reflect our multicultural society, but many of us find some unfamiliar and are unsure to use them. Lets take a look at some healthy grain alternatives, learn a bit about where they come from and how to use them. Wheat was first cultivated around 8000 BC. The first wheat products were made from coarsely ground grains and used to make flat breads in Middle East, which rose with some natural yeast from the air.
Alternative Grains: Pseudocereals. Pseudocereals are foods that can be used like grains, but come from plants that aren't related to the Grass Family. They aren't technically grains. This list of grains identifies grains from the Grass Family, other foods from the Grass Family, specifies which grains contain gluten, and lists alternative grains. Grains or cereals are edible seeds from plants of the Grass family.
Anatomy of a whole grain. Also called cereals, grains and whole grains are the seeds of grasses cultivated for food. Grains and whole grains come in many shapes and sizes, from large kernels of popcorn to small quinoa seeds. 1  Whole grains. 2  These are unrefined grains that haven't had their bran and germ removed by milling. 3  Whole grains are better sources of fiber and other important nutrients, such as selenium, potassium and magnesium.
Kefir grains, a symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeasts. Kefir grains are a combination of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts in a matrix of proteins, lipids, and sugars, and this symbiotic matrix, (or SCOBY) forms grains that resemble cauliflower. Kefir, keefir, or kephir (/kəˈfir/ kə-FEER), alternatively milk kefir, or bulgaros, búlgaros is a fermented milk drink made with kefir (grains a/yeast bacterial fermentation) starter and has its origins in the North Caucasus. Mountains it is prepared by inoculating, cow, goat or sheep milk with kefir. grains
Comments. Submit. Kefir grains aren't cereal grains. They're cauliflower-like cultures of bacteria, yeast and other uncategorized organisms that originally came from eastern Europe's Caucasus Mountains. Adding live kefir cultures to milk or water produces the fermented drink kefir, as well as new kefir grains. 
Kefir made from live kefir grains has 35 different strains of beneficial bacteria and yeasts. Kefir isn’t at all like yogurt in that kefir actually colonizes our digestive tracts with this beneficial bacteria and yeast. Yogurt and many other so called probiotic foods on the market today actually only provide prebiotics or simply – they provide food for the good bacteria that live in the intestinal tract. 