Eating more food, or bigger portions, will cause your blood glucose levels to rise more than eating smaller portions. Since carbohydrates affect blood glucose levels the most, the amount of carbohydrate that you eat each day is very important in controlling your blood glucose levels. Foods that contain carbohydrates will affect blood glucose levels the most. The foods that contain the most carbohydrate include those from the Fruit Group, the Starch and Starchy Vegetable Group, and the Milk and Yogurt Group.
The glycemic index or glycaemic index (GI) is a number associated with a particular type of food that indicates the food's effect on a person's blood glucose (also called blood sugar) level. 
Nevertheless, some foods, such as white bread, are converted almost right away to blood sugar, causing a quick spike. Other foods, such as brown rice, are digested more slowly, causing a lower and gentler change in blood sugar. 
The glucose in your blood comes from the food you eat. Complex carbohydrates, found in pasta or cereal, for example, are long chains of sugar molecules that are broken down by enzymes to simple sugars, such as glucose. Sucrose, or table sugar, is also broken down to form glucose. Because carbohydrates and sucrose in food are broken down to form glucose, the level of glucose in your blood goes up after you eat. Like most of the chemicals in your blood, the level of glucose must be tightly controlled. 1 If it has 1 percent glucose, then the glucose in the sample is really 10 percent, because you diluted it 10-fold. 2  Repeat steps 1–6, of this section, for all of your foods and juices. 3  Make a data table of your results in your lab notebook.
After 50 grams of available carbohydrates have been consumed, blood sugar levels are measured over a period of 2 hours. The results are plotted on a graph and summarized in what is called glucose AUC, or area under the curve.. Glucose AUC shows the immediate impact of the food on our blood sugar. Measuring GI also requires a second step. In this second step, 50 grams of available carbohydrate are consumed, but this time the food involved is one of two reference foods: either white bread or pure sugar (glucose). 
Dried fruits are very high in glucose. Photo Credit udra/iStock/Getty Images. Glucose is one of the simplest types of sugar and the main source of energy your body uses. With the help of the hormone insulin, cells are able to pull in glucose from your bloodstream to use as fuel. Nearly all carbohydrate-containing foods, from fruits to breads, have some level of glucose, although fruits are usually the highest sources. Since glucose can elevate your blood sugar quickly, if you are diabetic, you may want to avoid regularly consuming foods high in glucose. Typically all types of fruits have some level of glucose. A cup of kiwi slices has almost 10 grams; the same amount of plums provides closer to 9 grams. A cup of diced papaya has 6 grams and a large 5-ounce pear contains under 5 grams.
The food you eat directly impacts blood glucose levels. In order to create a meal plan that works best for you—one that helps you stay within your target range and eat the foods you like—you should be aware of how the foods you eat change your blood glucose level. 
Glucose is the Primary Source of Energy for Cells. Glucose is the human body's key source of energy as it provides energy to all the cells in our body. Glucose also is critical in the production of proteins, lipid metabolism and is a precursor for vitamin C production. Glucose is the sole source of fuel to create energy for all brain and red blood cells. The availability of glucose influences many psychological processes. When glucose levels are low, psychological processes requiring mental effort l(self-control, critical thinking and decision-making) become impaired. 5. Potatoes are high in starch (long chain glucose molecules) and also contain iron, potassium, phosphorus, Vitamin C and magnesium. Complex carbs keep us satisfied for longer time than foods containing simple sugars/high-fructose corn syrup.
Blood glucose levels are affected differently depending on whether you eat foods containing carbohydrates, proteins, fats, or a combination of these three. Carbohydrates will cause blood glucose to rise the most and the most quickly. Foods that contain carbohydrates will affect blood glucose levels the most. The foods that contain the most carbohydrate include those from the Fruit Group, the Starch and Starchy Vegetable Group, and the Milk and Yogurt Group.