RDW-CV and RDW-SD. Red blood cell distribution width is a way for scientists to measure red blood cell volume and size. When red blood cells are larger than normal, that could indicate a problem.
To determine the exact cause of an elevated RDW, it is often necessary to also look at the MCV, which is another component of the CBC. MCV is the abbreviation for mean corpuscular volume and it measures the mean red blood cell volume, or the average size of the red blood cells in the sample.
Blood count terms: Rdw means red cell distribution width, which is the range of values for the width of your red blood cells. A higher number could mean that you are making lots more red cells for some reason. Mch mean mean (or average) red cell hemoglobin, which is the amount of hemoglobin in each red blood cell.
High red cell: Turn over. Rdw is the term for variation in red cell size and is elevated in iron deficiency anemia, hemolytic anemia, following blood loss or any other state in which red cells are being lost and generated at an increased rate.
The red blood cell distribution width (“RDW”) test is normally done when the complete blood count is ordered by the health practitioner. The RDW test measures the variations in size of red blood cells. It is used with the MCV (mean corpuscular volume) test results to better determine types of anemia. Normally red blood cells are between six to eight micrometers in diameter (a micrometer is one millionth of a meter and its symbol is μm).
1 Red cell distribution width (RDW) is a calculation of the variation in the size of RBCs. 2  The CBC may also include reticulocyte count, which is a measurement of the absolute count or percentage of young red blood cells in blood.
RDW refers to the variation in size if your red blood cells. A … low RDW means that the cells are all roughly the same size. A high RDW means there isa high variation in the sizes of the cells and usually means a deficiency of iron and/or B12.
Red cell distribution width (RDW) laboratory test is a part of a standard complete blood count (CBC), and it is used along with other RBC indices, especially mean corpuscular volume (MCV) to help determine the causes of anemia.
Red cell distribution width (RDW) is a parameter that measures variation in red blood cell size or red blood cell volume.