Artist: Born in Fremantle in 1974, Shaun Tan grew up in the northern suburbs of Perth. From his teenage years he began drawing and painting images for magazines, to accompany short stories. He now works in Melbourne and is known internationally principally for his illustrated books, however he also paints and collaborates on animated movies (www.shauntan.net).
Visit Website Back to Authors. Shaun Tan was born in 1974 and grew up in the northern suburbs of Perth, Western Australia. In school he became known as the 'good drawer' which partly compensated for always being the shortest kid in every class. He graduated from the University of WA in 1995 with joint honours in Fine Arts and English Literature, and currently works full time as a freelance artist and author in Melbourne. Shaun began drawing and painting images for science fiction and horror stories in small-press magazines as a teenager, and has since become best known for illustrated books that deal with social, political and historical subjects through surreal, dream-like imagery.
Shaun began drawing and painting images for science fiction and horror stories in small-press magazines as a teenager, and has since become best known for illustrated books that deal with social, political and historical subjects through surreal, dream-like imagery. In school he became known as the 'good drawer' which partly compensated for always being the shortest kid in every class. He graduated from the University of WA in 1995 with joint honours in Fine Arts and English Literature, and currently works as an artist and author in Melbourne.
Tan was born in Fremantle, Western Australia, in 1974 and grew up in the northern suburbs of Perth, Western Australia. No rhetoric, no straining for effect. Never other than itself.. For his career contribution to children's and young adult literature in the broadest sense Tan won the 2011 Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award from the Swedish Arts Council, the biggest prize in children's literature.
Shaun Tan is an Australian artist, writer and film maker. He won an Academy Award for The Lost Thing, a 2011 animated film adaptation of a 2000 picture book he wrote and illustrated. Beside The Lost Thing, The Red Tree and The Arrival are books he has written and illustrated. No rhetoric, no straining for effect. Never other than itself.. For his career contribution to children's and young adult literature in the broadest sense Tan won the 2011 Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award from the Swedish Arts Council, the biggest prize in children's literature.
Shaun Tan grew up in the northern suburbs of Perth, Western Australia. In school he became known as the good drawer.. He graduated from the University of WA in 1995 with joint honors in Fine Arts and English Literature, and currently works full time as a freelance artist and author, concentrating mostly on writing and illustrating picture books. In 2001 Shaun was named Best Artist at the World Fantasy Awards in Montreal. He has recently worked for Blue Sky Studios and Pixar, providing concept artwork for forthcoming films. One of his latest projects is The Arrival, a wordless graphic novel that tells its story through the use of mesmerizing images.
Shaun Tan was born in 1974 in Fremantle, Western Australia. He grew up in Perth illustrating robots, dinosaurs and spaceships. 
Shaun Tan mostly worked in black and white because he says that the images would be printed in that way. The mediums he used for his works were inks, charcoal, photocopies, pens, acrylics and linocuts. He has also used many artists and illustrators as an inspiration for his works. These include Ron Brooks, Joseph Cornell, Milton Glaser, Michael Leunig, Gerald Scarfe, J. Otto Siebold, Lane Smith, Brett Whitley, Fred Williams, Rene Magritte, Peter Sis, Fred Williams and many more.
Shaun Tan is an illustrator and author born 1974 in Fremantle, Western Australia. He studied in ‘Balcatta Senior High School’ and was known there as the ‘good drawer’ and ‘the most talented artist’. He has also used many artists and illustrators as an inspiration for his works. These include Ron Brooks, Joseph Cornell, Milton Glaser, Michael Leunig, Gerald Scarfe, J. Otto Siebold, Lane Smith, Brett Whitley, Fred Williams, Rene Magritte, Peter Sis, Fred Williams and many more.
Shaun Tan was born in 1974 and grew up in the northern suburbs of Perth, Western Australia. In 2001 he was named Best Artist at the World Fantasy Awards in Montreal. Shaun Tan is the author of The Arrival, a «book in comic form» published by Scholastic. This silent project which has been four years in the making, follows an immigrant who has left his country to provide better tomorrows for his family.