The R1 million turnover threshold for compulsory VAT registration will only come into effect in 2009—SARS FINANCE MINISTER Trevor Manuel announced in his 2008 Budget speech that the annual turnover threshold for compulsory registration as a VAT vendor would be increased from the current R300 000 to R1 million. 
VAT registration for supplies in last 12 months. If your business is making taxable supplies, i.e. supplies on which VAT is chargeable at either the standard rate, reduced-rate or zero-rate, you need to notify HMRC when your turnover exceeds the limit in a period of 12 months. 1 For registration based on past turnover your VAT registration will start from the first day of the second month after the limit was exceeded. 2  For example, if you exceed the registration limit in April, you have to notify HMRC by 30 May, and your registration will start on 1 June.
September 05, 2011 by nick goddard. At the moment, the current threshold for compulsory VAT registration is VAT taxable turnover of more than £73,000 in the last 12 months. This is a rolling measurement – if you look at the year to 30 June and you are under, you then need to review for the year to 31 July, and so on. 
1 Taxable turnover for VAT purposes in the previous 12 months exceeds the threshold. 2  VAT taxable turnover may go over the threshold in the next 30 days alone. 3  When a VAT-registered business is taken over as a going concern. Deregistration threshold. If the VAT taxable turnover for the year is less than or equal to the deregistration threshold or it is expected to fall below it in the next 12 months, a business has the option of deregistering if it wants to.
VAT registration is compulsory if any of the following apply: 1  Taxable turnover for VAT purposes in the previous 12 months exceeds the threshold. 2  VAT taxable turnover may go over the threshold in the next 30 days alone. Deregistration threshold. If the VAT taxable turnover for the year is less than or equal to the deregistration threshold or it is expected to fall below it in the next 12 months, a business has the option of deregistering if it wants to.
Calculate VAT taxable turnover. taxable turnover is the total value of everything you sell that isn’t exempt from. . You must register for. with HM Revenue and Customs (. ) if it goes over the current registration threshold in a rolling 12-month period. This isn’t a fixed period like the tax year or the calendar year-it could be any period, eg the start of June to the end of May. The current threshold is £82,000.
If you’re over the threshold. You must register for VAT-though. may allow you ‘ exception from registration ’ if your turnover goes above the threshold temporarily. You must register straight away if you expect the value of everything you sell in the UK which isn’t. -exempt in the next 30 days alone to be over £82,000. You must register for. with HM Revenue and Customs (. ) if it goes over the current registration threshold in a rolling 12-month period. This isn’t a fixed period like the tax year or the calendar year-it could be any period, eg the start of June to the end of May. The current threshold is £82,000.
The VAT threshold tends to be set each year in the Budget. The VAT registration threshold for the 2015-16 tax year it is set at £82,000. VAT registration is compulsory if your UK turnover of taxable goods and services (any sales that are not exempt from VAT) over the previous 12 months goes over the VAT threshold. 
Your business should register for VAT if your “taxable supplies” over the past 12 months has exceeded the VAT registration threshold. From April 2015, the VAT registration threshold is £82,000 (previously it was £81,000). So, if at the end of any given month, the total value of all your taxable supplies over the previous 12 months exceeds £82,000, you should register for VAT. 