Wild turkeys live in open, wooded areas, including fields, pastures, orchards, marshes and the edges of forests. (Matt Knoth/Flickr). The wild turkey is a large, dark, ground-dwelling bird with a long neck and a fan-shaped tail. 
Wild turkeys are omnivorous, foraging on the ground or climbing shrubs and small trees to feed. They prefer eating acorns, nuts and other hard mast of various trees, including hazel, chestnut, hickory, and pinyon pine as well as various seeds, berries such as juniper and bearberry, roots and insects. Male turkeys have a long, dark, fan-shaped tail and glossy bronze wings. As with many other species of the Galliformes, turkeys exhibit strong sexual dimorphism. The male is substantially larger than the female, and his feathers have areas of red, purple, green, copper, bronze, and gold iridescence.
1 The eastern wild turkey is one of six recognized subspecies of turkey in the United States, but is the only subspecies found in Illinois. 2  Habitat loss and over hunting eliminated wild turkey from Illinois by 1910, but they were successfully reintroduced. Wild turkeys eat a variety of foods including, but not limited to, acorns, beechnuts, hickory nuts, wild grapes, crabapple, black cherry, several species of berries and grasses, waste grain, grasshoppers, crickets, and beetles. Wild turkeys are very social birds and congregate in flocks during winter.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. There are 5 subspecies of wild turkey. The eastern, the osceola or Florida, the Rio grande, the merriam, the gould's, and the south Mexican or meleagris gallopavo gallapavo. 
The wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) is native to North America and is the heaviest member of the diverse Galliformes. It is the same species as the domestic turkey, which was originally derived from a southern Mexican subspecies of wild turkey (not the related ocellated turkey). Male turkeys have a long, dark, fan-shaped tail and glossy bronze wings. As with many other species of the Galliformes, turkeys exhibit strong sexual dimorphism. The male is substantially larger than the female, and his feathers have areas of red, purple, green, copper, bronze, and gold iridescence.
(Meleagris gallopavo mexicana) The fifth recognized, but least known, wild turkey subspecies is the Gould's found in portions of Arizona and New Mexico, as well as northern Mexico. It was first described by J. Gould in 1856 during his travels in Mexico. Like the Merriam's, the Gould's is a bird of the mountains. Merriam’s Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) This subspecies of turkey is primarily located in the pines of the western mountain regions of the U.S. It was named by Dr. E.W. Nelson in 1900 in honor of C. Hart Merriam, the first chief of the U.S. Biological Survey.
Wild turkeys typically forage on forest floors, but can also be found in grasslands and swamps. They feed on nuts, seeds, fruits, insects, and salamanders. Wild turkey reintroduction programs began in the 1940s, and the birds were relocated to areas where populations had been decimated but woodlands were recovering. Meleagris gallopavo. Wild turkeys, with their distinctive feathers and gobbling call, were Benjamin Franklin's choice for the national bird of the United States. Photograph courtesy Gary M. Stolz/U.S.
Wild Turkey. Meleagris gallopavo. Wild turkeys, with their distinctive feathers and gobbling call, were Benjamin Franklin's choice for the national bird of the United States. Photograph courtesy Gary M. Stolz/U.S.
Eastern Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris)This subspecies of wild turkey is the most numerous and hunted species and is also the most widely distributed of all the subspecies in North America. It nearly inhabits the entire eastern half of the country. The Eastern turkey is best found in hardwood and thick forests. Merriam’s Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) This subspecies of turkey is primarily located in the pines of the western mountain regions of the U.S. It was named by Dr. E.W. Nelson in 1900 in honor of C. Hart Merriam, the first chief of the U.S. Biological Survey.