When patients are first diagnosed with kidney disease, they are often overwhelmed by the sheer amount of information they have to learn. Renal disease is complicated because impairment of the kidneys affects many different systems of the body and can result in hypertension, anemia and bone problems. These issues go far beyond filtration of blood, which is one of the kidneys&#039; main functions. The kidneys are also part of the endocrine system because they release a hormone called erythropoitin--abbreviated EPO-- which is responsible for transforming reticulocytes into mature iron-bearing red blood cells.
Specific features: -Urine is made by the kidneys; it's transported from the kidneys to the bladder by the ureters; the bladder stores the urine then the urine leaves the bladder and exits the body via the urethra. -95% of urine is water. Also present is urea, which is produced in the liver (urea is the excretion form of nitrogen waste).
The kidneys are the waste filtering and disposal system of the body. As much as 1/3 of all blood leaving the heart passes into the kidneys to be filtered before flowing to the rest of the body’s tissues. 
Kidneys are essential to the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes, maintenance of acid–base balance, and regulation of blood pressure (via maintaining the salt and water balance). Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter which empties into the bladder. Renal physiology is the study of kidney function, while nephrology is the medical specialty concerned with kidney diseases.
The urinary system consists of the kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra. The kidneys filter the blood to remove wastes and produce urine. The ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra together form the urinary tract, which acts as a plumbing system to drain urine from the kidneys, store it, and then release it during urination. The kidneys filter metabolic wastes, excess ions, and chemicals from the blood to form urine. Ureters. The ureters are a pair of tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. The ureters are about 10 to 12 inches long and run on the left and right sides of the body parallel to the vertebral column.
The organs, tubes, muscles, and nerves that work together to create, store, and carry urine are the urinary system. The urinary system includes two kidneys, two ureters, the bladder, two sphincter muscles, and the urethra. 
There is absolutely an excretory system and it's not just the kidneys that are involved but the lungs (excrete co2) the intestines (digestive yes but also excrete waste) and obviously the kidney, bladder, ureters and urethra. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Excretory_s... 
The urinary system, also known as the renal system, produces, stores and eliminates urine, the fluid waste excreted by the kidneys. The kidneys make urine by filtering wastes and extra water from blood. Urine travels from the kidneys through two thin tubes called ureters and fills the bladder. When the bladder is full, a person urinates through the urethra to eliminate the waste. The urinary system is susceptible to a variety of infections and other problems, including blockages and injuries.
The urinary system, also known as the renal system, consists of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and the urethra. Each kidney consists of millions of functional units called nephrons. The purpose of the renal system is to eliminate wastes from the body, regulate blood volume and blood pressure, control levels of electrolytes and metabolites, and regulate blood pH. The kidneys have extensive blood supply via the renal arteries which leave the kidneys via the renal vein