Chlamydia and gonorrhea are transmitted through vaginal, anal or oral sexual contact. Both infections cause symptoms for some people while other people have no recognizable symptoms at all. Both infections can be transmitted from infected mother to child during vaginal delivery. Since chlamydia and/or gonorrhea may occur simultaneously with other infections, such as hepatitis B, syphilis, and HIV, additional testing may be recommended. Repeated testing may be done if desired, 3-4 months after evaluation and treatment.
Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) that can infect both men and women. It can cause infections in the genitals, rectum, and throat. It is a very common infection, especially among young people ages 15-24 years. Women with gonorrhea are at risk of developing serious complications from the infection, even if they don’t have any symptoms. Symptoms in women can include: 1  Painful or burning sensation when urinating; 2  Increased vaginal discharge;
For other uses, see Clap. Gonorrhea, also known as gonnococcal infection, gonococcal urethritis, gonorrhoea and the clap, is a sexually transmitted infection that is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The usual symptoms in men are a burning sensation with urination and discharge from the penis. An estimated 88 million cases of gonorrhea occur each year, out of the 448 million new cases of all curable STI each year – that also includes syphilis, chlamydia and trichomoniasis. Infections in women most commonly occur when they are young adults.
Both gonorrhea and chlamydia can cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) , an infection that occurs when bacteria move from the vagina and cervix upward into the uterus, ovaries, or fallopian tubes (see the FAQ Pelvic Inflammatory Disease). To find out if you have gonorrhea or chlamydia, your health care provider may take a sample of cells from your throat, cervix, urethra, or rectum where the infection may occur. Gonorrhea and chlamydia also can be detected with a urine test.
Women with gonorrhea or chlamydia often have no symptoms. When symptoms from either infection do occur, they may show up 2 days to 3 weeks after infection. They may be very mild and can be mistaken for a urinary tract or vaginal infection. The most common symptoms in women include the following: To find out if you have gonorrhea or chlamydia, your health care provider may take a sample of cells from your throat, cervix, urethra, or rectum where the infection may occur. Gonorrhea and chlamydia also can be detected with a urine test.
Gonorrhea. Gonorrhea (neisseria gonorrhoeae) is a bacterial infection that often co-exists with chlamydia. Approximately 700,000 new gonorrhea infections occur every year. These bacteria can also cause PID, ectopic pregnancy and infertility in women and testicular and prostate infections in men. Since chlamydia and/or gonorrhea may occur simultaneously with other infections, such as hepatitis B, syphilis, and HIV, additional testing may be recommended. Repeated testing may be done if desired, 3-4 months after evaluation and treatment.
Ceftriaxone is typically given in combination with either azithromycin or doxycycline, as gonorrhea infections may occur along with chlamydia, an infection that ceftriaxone does not treat. Some strains of gonorrhea have begun showing resistance to this treatment, which will make infection more difficult to treat. An estimated 88 million cases of gonorrhea occur each year, out of the 448 million new cases of all curable STI each year – that also includes syphilis, chlamydia and trichomoniasis. Infections in women most commonly occur when they are young adults.