Men reach their sexual peak at 18, and women reach theirs at 28. TRUE With regard to their supply of sexual hormones, at least. Testosterone peaks at age 18 in men; women's estrogen hits its high point in their mid-20s. But peak hormones don't mean peak sexual performance, says Marc Goldstein, M.D., a professor of reproductive medicine and urology at Cornell University's Weill Medical College.
At a young age, we're taught men peak sexually at age 18, while women have to wait until they reach their 30s to experience the best breathtaking, head-spinning, toe-curling, raunchy sex of their lives. 
Most of us have grown up with the ingrained perception that men hit their sexual peak at 18, and women at 35. Which, ever since I got the sudden urge to smell a cute guy's neck on the subway when I was seventeen, I have sensed was a whole lot of BS. 
Peaks and Valleys—Why It Matters. Conventional wisdom (and plenty of women’s magazines) claims that men reach their sexual peaks as young teenage whippersnappers (18, to be exact), while late-blooming ladies don’t hit this milestone until their 30s. Because men supposedly peak at age 18, many young male adults are expected to be “experienced” , which can create a culture of peer pressure for men to have sex before they’re ready. For both men and women, buying into the idea of “sexual peaks” is a waste of time, if not outright damaging.
Metabolism and Heart Rate. Resting metabolism, which accounts for a major part of daily energy consumption, will peak in early adulthood for men and women. By the time you reach retirement age, it has decreased by about 10 percent and then drops another 10 percent after that. Bone. Although bones continue to build until age 30 to 35 years old, the skeletal bone mass of women is almost complete by the age of 20, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
If Kinsey were looking at hormonal levels alone, he’d be largely correct about sexual peaks. In men, testosterone levels reach their apex around age 18, while women’s estrogen (and fertility) hits a high-water mark during the mid-to late-20s. Regardless of hormonal maturity or concentrations, both men and women reach their sexual peak when they’re most comfortable with their own bodies and sexuality. And because hormones and relationships change throughout life, a so-called sexual peak can come at any time or age.
Muscle Mass. The muscle strength of men and women peaks anywhere from 20 to 30 years old. If you’re not suffering from injuries or disease, you can maintain this strength for another 20 years. Bone. Although bones continue to build until age 30 to 35 years old, the skeletal bone mass of women is almost complete by the age of 20, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
men DO reach their physical peak at age 18 give or take a year or two so i dont understand why you had a problem with that answer..i thought this was common knowledge??? men 18, women late 20's--its always been a topic of discussion as to why the 2 sexes have such a wide gap between their peaks. There is no age for that. It's all over the board. Some men are in the best shape of their life at 40 health wise and physical wise. I'm 19 and the time my body was at my best was 16. So it's all over the place there is no average for all men.
Unsurprisingly, the idea that men and women have specific, but different, sexual peaks is pretty outdated. Regardless of hormonal maturity or concentrations, both men and women reach their sexual peak when they’re most comfortable with their own bodies and sexuality. Because men supposedly peak at age 18, many young male adults are expected to be “experienced” , which can create a culture of peer pressure for men to have sex before they’re ready. For both men and women, buying into the idea of “sexual peaks” is a waste of time, if not outright damaging.
Although men have more muscle mass than women, both sexes reach their physical peak as young adults or anywhere from their late 20's to early 30's, according to “Human Development: A Life-Span View” by Robert Kail and John Cavanaugh. Bone. Although bones continue to build until age 30 to 35 years old, the skeletal bone mass of women is almost complete by the age of 20, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.