Mondays 4-5pm, Tuesday-Thursday 4-7pm, Fridays 4-6:30pm. Sean Hannity is a multimedia superstar, spending four hours a day every day reaching out to millions of Americans on radio, television and internet. The Sean Hannity Radio Show has over 500 affiliates nationwide and counting. Sean is heard by roughly 13.5 million loyal listeners a week making him the second most listened to talk show host in America, according to Talkers Magazine. 
Hosted By News Radio 1310 KLIX. Sean Hannity is a radio and television host, author, and conservative political commentator. He is the host of The Sean Hannity Show, a nationally syndicated talk-radio show. Hannity also hosts a cable-news show, Hannity, on Fox News Channel
Read More. Sean Hannity is a multimedia superstar, spending four hours a day, every day, reaching out to millions of Americans on radio, television and the internet. Nationally syndicated by Premiere Networks, The Sean Hannity Show has more than 500 affiliates nationwide. Hannity has been the recipient of two Marconi Awards for Network/Syndicated Personality of the Year, and is a three-time consecutive winner of the Radio & Records National Talk Show Host of The Year award.
Information. Sean Hannity is a leading multimedia conservative talk host spending four hours a day reaching out to millions of Americans on radio, television and the internet. Hannity has been the recipient of 2 Marconi Awards for Nationally Syndicated Radio Host of the Year and is a three-time consecutive winner of the Radio & Records National Talk Show Host of The Year Awards. Sean Hannity ranks the #6 streaming online talk show according to Talk Stream Live for the 2nd quarter 2015
Sean Hannity is a multimedia superstar, spending four hours a day every day reaching out to millions of Americans on radio, television and internet. The Sean Hannity Radio Show has over 500 affiliates nationwide and counting. Sean is heard by roughly 13.5 million loyal listeners a week making him the second most listened to talk show host in America, according to Talkers Magazine. 
Listen to The Sean Hannity Show on your phone! The gutsy talk show host always lands on the right side of the issues. Hannity's energy, charisma and seasoned professionalism score high points with audiences and critics alike.
Call the show: (800) 941-7326. Sean Hannity is a multimedia superstar, spending four hours a day every day reaching out to millions of Americans on radio, television and internet. The Sean Hannity Radio Show has over 500 affiliates nationwide and counting. Sean is heard by roughly 13.5 million loyal listeners a week making him the second most listened to talk show host in America, according to Talkers Magazine