During the truncation process, only the active portion of the online SQL Server transaction log file is scanned. Some parts of the scanned portion are marked as inactive and they will be used as free space to write down new transactions. That’s why the online transaction log has some reserved space and is usually bigger than the SQL Server transaction log backup. Moreover, a transaction log backup contains only the transactions made after the last
1 By default, in SQL Server 2000 and in SQL Server 2005, the recovery model for a SQL Server database is set to the Full recovery model. 2  With the full recovery model, regular backups of the transaction log are used to prevent the transaction log file size from growing out of proportion to the database size. SQL Server stores the data physically in the data file. The transaction log file stores the details of all the modifications that you perform on your SQL Server database and the details of the transactions that performed each modification.
SQL Server transaction logs. A transaction log is a sequential record of all changes made to the database while the actual data is contained in a separate file. The transaction log contains enough information to undo all changes made to the data file as part of any individual transaction. Restoring a database. Transaction log backups can be used to restore a database to a specific point in time. A transaction log backup alone is not sufficient to restore a database. A backup of the data file is required as well. The data file backups are applied first
Every SQL Server transaction log is made of Virtual Log Files (VLFs). During the truncation process, only the Logical log is scanned. A Logical log is made of active VLFs. A Log Sequence Number (LSN) is used to uniquely identify every transaction in the online transaction log. That’s why the online transaction log has some reserved space and is usually bigger than the SQL Server transaction log backup. Moreover, a transaction log backup contains only the transactions made after the last
Advanced Information. The transaction log for any database is managed as a set of virtual log files (VLFs). SQL Server determines VLF file sizes internally based on the total size of the log file and the growth increment that is used when the log expands. A log always expands in units of whole VLFs and it can only compress to a VLF boundary. Log records in the transaction log files are truncated on a transaction-by-transaction basis. If the transaction scope is large, that transaction and any transactions started after it are not removed from the transaction log unless it is completed. This can result in large log files.
When you think about SQL Server log files, you might think first of the transaction log, which records recent database transactions and is used to ensure database integrity in the event of a system restore. However, many other log files also help to diagnose and troubleshoot problems. 
There are several reasons why you want to do that: 1  A database system is usually busy, maybe doing thousands of transactions per second. 2  An example: Somebody drops a table with important data by mistake. 3  If the database is in full recovery mode, the transaction log of SQL Server will grow. It is my understanding that cleanup tasks on the SQL Server VM are already taking care of truncating the log, however, UDP also allows SQL Server log truncation. It is my understanding that the transaction log can be used to restore corrupted databases, because, well, it's a log of all transactions.
A transaction log is a file – integral part of every SQL Server database. It contains log records produced during the logging process in a SQL Server database. The transaction log is the most important component of a SQL Server database when it comes to the disaster recovery – however, it must be uncorrupted. After each database modification – transaction occurrence, a log record is written to the transaction log. All the changes are written sequentially. A transaction log stores every transaction made to a SQL Server database, except some which are minimally logged like BULK IMPORT or SELECT INTO. Internally it is split into the smaller parts called Virtual Log Files (VLFs).
Myth: A SQL Server transaction log backup will be the same size as the online transaction log itself. The online transaction log must have enough information to rollback active transactions, so some space is reserved for eventual rollbacks. That’s why the online transaction log has some reserved space and is usually bigger than the SQL Server transaction log backup. Moreover, a transaction log backup contains only the transactions made after the last