1 According to Livestrong.com, the cost of getting a Zumba certification ranges from $225 to $285. 2  After becoming certified, you will need to enroll in the Zumba Instructor Network for a monthly fee. 1 An article at the Houston Chronicle states that Zumba certification classes require interested individuals to register at the Zumba website and complete the one-day training to receive a certificate of completion. 2  The cost of training classes range from $225 to $285.
After The Training. Once you have taken the one-day ZUMBA® Basic Instructor Training you are licensed to teach ZUMBA® Fitness classes, use the ZUMBA® name in your class title, and call yourself a ZUMBA® Instructor. Any other use of the ZUMBA® name or logo must be approved by the ZUMBA® Corporate office. To see the dates and locations of upcoming ZUMBA® Instructor Trainings you can visit the Instructor Training pages of www.Zumba.com. There are no pre-requisites to become a ZUMBA® Instructor, although we would advise you to have a fitness or dance instructors certification.
1 The cost of training classes range from $225 to $285. 2  According to Livestrong.com, the cost of getting a Zumba certification ranges from $225 to $285. 3  After becoming certified, you will need to enroll in the Zumba Instructor Network for a monthly fee. 1 An article at the Houston Chronicle states that Zumba certification classes require interested individuals to register at the Zumba website and complete the one-day training to receive a certificate of completion. 2  The cost of training classes range from $225 to $285.
The other six certification classes require the instructor to be a current Zumba instructor. In addition, Zumba recommends that any instructor pursuing the Aqua Zumba or Zumba Toning certifications also hold personal training certifications. As of 2012, the costs of the classes range from $225 to $285. After completing a Zumba certification class, instructors are free to start teaching. Zumba certifications last for one year and must be renewed each year by moving up to a more advanced training class or retaking a basic class. As of 2012, more than 14 million people take a Zumba class in more than 150 countries in any given week, according to the Zumba website. Zumba allows people of all fitness levels and all ages to get a calorie-burning cardio workout that is also fun to do.
1 Zumba Instructor Training includes an 8-hour workshop that lasts one day. 2  The prices for the training varies according to the type of workshop (standard, early, or rush) and your location (local or international). 3  The Zumba Certification is a trainer’s license that is valid for one full year. 1 An article at the Houston Chronicle states that Zumba certification classes require interested individuals to register at the Zumba website and complete the one-day training to receive a certificate of completion. 2  The cost of training classes range from $225 to $285.
Enroll in the proper training programs. The first step in attaining your Zumba fitness instructor license is to enroll in one of the following courses: 1  Zumba Basic Steps Level 1: This course will teach you the foundation for teaching Zumba. 3. Complete the Zumba Instructor Training Course. These courses are a combination of lectures and practical training to give you the skills you will need to teach Zumba. Once you have completed the training course, you will be granted a one-year license
1 A Zumba Certification is required before you can start teaching Zumba classes. 2  Zumba Instructor Training includes an 8-hour workshop that lasts one day. 3  The prices for the training varies according to the type of workshop (standard, early, or rush) and your location (local or international). 1 An article at the Houston Chronicle states that Zumba certification classes require interested individuals to register at the Zumba website and complete the one-day training to receive a certificate of completion. 2  The cost of training classes range from $225 to $285.
The cost of training for new instructors currently ranges from 225 USD to 295 USD depending on how close to the event you book your spot. The Zumba Basic Level 1 Instructor training is an all-day event which packs a lot of information into a fairly short amount of time. 