Turbulence in the tip vortex from an airplane wing. In fluid dynamics, turbulence or turbulent flow is a flow regime characterized by chaotic property changes. This includes low momentum diffusion, high momentum convection, and rapid variation of pressure and flow velocity in space and time.
4. Clear air turbulence, however, is a different story. Clear air turbulence is the most dangerous kind, as it occurs in cloudless skies with perfect visibility—so oncoming turbulence cannot be picked up by weather radar.
'Even in considerably bumpy air — what a pilot might call 'moderate turbulence,' a plane is seldom displaced in altitude by more than 20 feet, and usually less. 'Passengers might feel the plane 'plummeting' or 'diving' — words the media can't get enough of — when in fact it's hardly moving.
1. Pilots always get a lot of warning about air turbulence. There's no mystery about what air turbulence is: It's created by atmospheric pressure, jet streams, and the air that circulates in mountainous areas, as well as weather fronts and thunderstorms.
Turbulence is the random, chaotic motion of air, caused by changes in air currents. From inside an airplane, it can range from minor bumpiness that can jostle the cranberry juice on your tray to powerful jolts that can structurally damage the plane and injure its passengers.
2. Generally, turbulence is quite harmless. Turbulence is essentially just a rough patch caused by wind, due to thunderstorms, the jet stream, proximity to mountains, and other factors, and thus is quite common on any flight. 3. Pilots know when it's going to happen.
Physicists describe turbulence as turbulent flow, or the movement of a gas or liquid in which the fluid undergoes irregular mixing, causing changes in the fluid's speed, pressure and direction. (Laminar flow, in contrast, is a fluid movement with constant speed, direction and pressure.).
Like long security lines and bad coffee, air turbulence is one of the headaches travelers face when they decide to board an airplane. But there are times when turbulence can cause more than just a headache.
Turbulence is air movement that normally cannot be seen and often occurs unexpectedly. It can be created by many different conditions, including atmospheric pressure, jet streams, air around mountains, cold or warm weather fronts or thunderstorms. Turbulence can even occur when the sky appears to be clear.