Familial hypercholesterolemia is a genetic disorder caused by a defect on chromosome 19. The defect makes the body unable to remove low density lipoprotein (LDL, or bad) cholesterol from the blood. This results in high levels of LDL in the blood. High levels of LDL cholesterol make you more likely to have narrowing of the arteries from atherosclerosis at an early age. Those with familial hypercholesterolemia are more likely to have a family history of high cholesterol and heart disease at a younger age than normal.
Grobbee and colleagues found that 130 men with total cholesterol levels less than 175 over a four-year period were four to seven times more likely to have symptoms of severe depression, compared with men with cholesterol levels of 230 to 270. No association was seen between cholesterol levels and anger or hostility. WebMD Health News. March 23, 2000 (Baltimore) -- Building on previous medical research finding a link between low cholesterol levels and violent death, notably suicide, a new study shows that men with relatively low cholesterol levels were up to seven times more likely to report symptoms of severe depression.
High blood cholesterol is treated with lifestyle changes and medicines. The main goal of treatment is to lower your low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level enough to reduce your risk for coronary heart disease, heart attack, and other related health problems. The two main ways to lower your cholesterol (and, thus, your heart disease risk) include: 1  Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes (TLC) . 2  TLC is a three-part program that includes a healthy diet, weight management, and physical activity. 3  TLC is for anyone whose LDL cholesterol level is above goal. 4  Medicines.
Oct. 1, 1999 (Washington) -- Women who have an elevated cholesterol level before getting pregnant are twice as likely to develop a serious condition called preeclampsia during pregnancy, compared with women with normal cholesterol levels. Your LDL level also could be optimal if you are taking a statin medication. Please check with your doctor to get your complete lipid profile and see if you may need additional treatment. In the meantime, find more information on WebMD's Cholesterol Health Center. Your total cholesterol level is Borderline High.
While cholesterol levels are classified into desirable, borderline high-risk and high-risk categories (Table 4) , 12 decisions regarding the treatment of hypercholesterolemia are based on the LDL cholesterol level and the presence or absence of other risk factors for coronary heart disease. The target LDL level in patients with two or more risk factors is 130 mg per dL (3.35 mmol per L) or less. For patients with documented coronary heart disease, the LDL cholesterol level should be reduced to less than 100 mg per dL (2.60 mmol per L).
Practice Essentials. Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an autosomal dominant disorder that causes severe elevations in total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc). Xanthomas are noted commonly on the Achilles tendons and metacarpal phalangeal extensor tendons of the hands of patients with untreated FH. Background. Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an autosomal dominant disorder that causes severe elevations in total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc).
Bad cholesterol. Most of the cholesterol in the blood is carried by proteins called low density lipoproteins or LDL. This is known as the bad cholesterol because it combines with other substances to clog the arteries. A diet high in saturated fats and trans fats tends to raise the level of LDL cholesterol. Total cholesterol measures the combination of LDL, HDL and VLDL (very low density lipoprotein) in your bloodstream. VLDL is a precursor of LDL, the bad cholesterol. Experts recommend that total cholesterol levels should be lower than 5mmol/L.
Unhealthy cholesterol levels (low HDL, high LDL, and high triglycerides) increase the risk for heart disease and heart attack. Some risk factors for cholesterol can be controlled (such as diet, exercise, and weight) while others cannot (such as age, gender, and family history). Reducing LDL (“bad” cholesterol) and total cholesterol levels, while at the same time boosting HDL (“good” cholesterol) levels, can prevent heart attacks and death in all people (with or without heart disease). Reducing LDL is the primary goal of most cholesterol drugs.