When it comes to the best foods for digestive health, perhaps the best way of thinking about it is this: If it doesn't cause any symptoms, then it's good. There are foods that clean out your bowel system. Foods that help to keep you regular. Foods that will not increase reflux. Bechtold and King offered up some of their picks for the best and worst foods for digestion, based on their ability to help keep things moving in the body, as well as their likelihood of triggering nasty symptoms like diarrhea and acid reflux.
1 Acidic Foods Tomato sauce and citrus fruits, such as lemons, limes, oranges, and grapefruits, are acidic and can cause digestive problems. 2  Many people don’t realize that carbonated beverages are also acidic — Krevsky says that if you leave a pearl in a glass of soda pop overnight, it will dissolve. 1 When you’re experiencing a bout of indigestion, put low-fat foods on the menu and eat small meals spaced throughout the day, which can put less pressure on your stomach. 2  Avoid high-fat culprits, like butter, ice cream, red meat, and cheese, at least for a while.
Look at how the acid/alkaline balance affects health. Your stomach is an acidic organ to help digest the foods we eat. The large intestine is slightly on the acid side, whereas the organ tissues and body fluids need to be slightly alkaline (7.2 to 7.4 pH) for good health. An easy way to identify live foods is to eat foods that contain water. Vegetables, fruits, nuts, and seeds, are live foods that contain enzymes and water. Eating more live foods than acid foods supplies enzymes needed for digestion. Digestive enzymes for Acid Reflux repair and remedies are very important. Try eating 60% or more alkaline foods than acid foods
pH balancing foods. Combined with our articles about pH balance and digestion, this chart of acid/alkaline forming foods will help you gain a better understanding of the effect that individual foods have in terms of digestive pH. 
When you have an upset stomach, avoid acidic foods, he says. 1  Fatty Foods Fatty foods stimulate contractions in the digestive tract, which, surprisingly, can either slow down the emptying of the stomach and worsen constipation or speed up movement and worsen or lead to diarrhea. 1 When you’re experiencing a bout of indigestion, put low-fat foods on the menu and eat small meals spaced throughout the day, which can put less pressure on your stomach. 2  Avoid high-fat culprits, like butter, ice cream, red meat, and cheese, at least for a while.
Having enough HCL (hydrochloric acid or stomach acid) is critical for good digestion and immune health. Without adequate HCL food is incompletely digested and failure of assimilation occurs. If this happens, we become vitamin and mineral deficient. 
Foods containing rapidly fermentable carbohydrates called FODMAPs feed bacteria in your gut and may be responsible for gut inflammation, gas, bloating, and other uncomfortable tummy troubles. Cutting back on foods that contain FODMAPs will help improve your digestion, eliminate GI problems, and lead to weight-loss. Some fermented foods are good for your tummy; others can create problems for certain people. Fermented foods include wine, cheese, vinegar, miso, yogurt, sauerkraut, and pickles. In yogurt, milk is combined with bacterias that break down some of the lactose, so what remains may be easier for your stomach to process.
Some foods are worse for digestion than others, particularly if you’re one of the 70 million people in the United States that suffer from a digestive disorder, such as Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), acid reflux, diarrhea, constipation and Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), to name a few. 
You can find a detailed list of foods and their pH values on the Center for Food Safety and Nutrition web site of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Gastric juice — the digestive liquids in your stomach — has a pH of 2.0, which is very, very acidic. The pH of hydrochloric acid is between 0.1 and 1.0 — probably the most acidic substance known to people. Eating acidic foods can't cause the stomach to become more acidic. In fact, during the process of digestion, the stomach secretes hydrochloric acid (HCl), a super-duper acidic substance that causes its contents to become acidic. Digestive enzymes, which begin their work in the stomach, require such an environment to function properly.