This Site Might Help You. RE: how do i tell what kind of iphone i have? my friend gave me an iphone and they say its the latest one (4s) but im not sure, how do i tell? the iphone model A1332 EMC 380A. Add your answer. H
Easy steps to find your iPhone model. Identifying the correct model of your iPhone is simple. Offer prices to sell your iphone are based on iPhone generation, carrier, and storage capacity. 
Warranty. 1  How long is my iPhone covered by Apples warranty? 2  Apple's Limited Warranty for iPhone covers your iPhone for one year. 3  How can I tell if my iPhone is in warranty? 4  Apple's Limited Warranty for iPhone covers your iPhone for one year from the date of original purchase. 
how do I know what type of iphone I have. 4209 Views 2 Replies Latest reply: Aug 15, 2011 3:57 PM by vazandrew. Level 1 (0 points). I know it might be strange, but I am still hanging on to this phone...I will have the 4 or possibly 5, but this is getting me through till then. I'm not sure if I bought the 3 or 3G. I know it's not the 3Gs, so that's a start. I want to upgrade the software for only the second time since I got it. Any help would be great.
i need to know this because i'm looking to buy an Ed Hardy faceplate for it and i cant find ones that arent for the iPhone 3g. PLEASEEE tell me! thanks =]. Update: you dont have to be rudeee.... i meant that i'vee heard people say: the iPhone, the iPhone 1st generation, the iPhone 2G, the iPhone 3g..... 
Inspect your device's original packaging, if you have it. You can find your iPhone model and storage capacity on the barcode label that's affixed to the box. Retrieve your iPhone's unique identifying numbers. On your iPhone, tap Settings, General and then About.. Scroll down to Model and Serial Number.. Call these numbers into Apple Support or an Apple-authorized carrier or retailer for help in deciphering and determining your iPhone model.
The Original iPhone. If you bought your iPhone in 2007, it's guaranteed to be an original. This is the year the iPhone was released. Look for the model number A1203 on the back of its anodized aluminum case. The iPhone 3GS was released in 2009 with the model number A1303 on the back. The iPhone 3GS was the first iPhone available in black or white; the 3G was only available in black. Both have beveled edges and a plastic back case. The serial numbers are printed on the mini-SIM tray located on the side of the phone.
http://www.directfix.com/category/Wha... - presents how to determine your iPhone model. This will help you in the process of trying to figure out and determine the iphone model you have. We will step you through the process of checking the model number and features that will narrow down and figure out what model iphone you have. Like Us on FaceBook: http://www.facebook.com/directfix.
Last Updated: Nov. 17, 2014. When you get a new iPhone—especially if it's your first iPhone —there are literally hundreds (maybe even thousands) of things to learn how to do. But you need to start somewhere, and that somewhere ought to be the basics. Install iTunes. When it comes to the iPhone, iTunes is much more than just the program that stores and plays your music. It's also the tool that lets you add and remove music, video, photos, apps, and more from your iPhone. It's also where a number of settings related to what goes on your iPhone live.
Answer: You can find your iPhone model number by looking at the small text on the back of the iPhone. There should be something that says Model AXXXX. Match that to the list below to find out which iPhone model you own. 1  A1634 - iPhone 6S Plus. 2  A1687 - iPhone 6S Plus. 3  A1699 - iPhone 6S Plus. 4  A1633 - iPhone 6S. 5  A1688 - iPhone 6S.