fuck yeah. A huevo is one of the many Mexican slang terms that uses the word heuvo, which literally means egg, but figuratively refers to testicles. You can use this phrase when somethings cool happens or as a form of agreement.
Best Answer: Huevo means Egg but when you say A-huevo means something else. Ahuevo is a Slang word Mexican use meaning the following... Hell yeah or F^&% Yeah. exp: Do you want to go to the Futball game ahuevo (hell yeah). Source(s): This is close as you can get to this meaning word. Ahuevo is Mexican slang for having to do something and not wanting to and just saying Oh well or F*ck it. Mostly when ever something is having to be forced, literally and un-literally. Ex1: Person 1...
“ No hacer ni el huevo ” to do nothing at all. In Chile the word aguevonao – is used to mean trashed or completely fatigued. A not so polite way of using the word is “ No me tocas los huevos ” meaning “don’t piss me off”. In Mexico “ A huevo ” means “Hell yes, or you bet”. Also in the same country “ Morderse un huevo ” means to “keep you mouth shut” Muerdete un huevo. Ya lo dijiste mucho. Keep you mouth shut, you have said enough”. An idiom sometimes used is “ buscarle el pelo al huevo ” which means nitpicking.
Let me do it the way I want. Chile tiene cara de mujer (Photo credit: Xurxo Martinez). “ Martínez no hacer ni el ” huevo to do nothing at. All In chile the word – aguevonao is used to mean trashed or completely. Fatigued a not so polite way of using the word “ Is no me tocas los ” huevos “meaning’don t piss me”. off In Mexico “ A huevo ” means “Hell yes, or you bet”. Also in the same country “ Morderse un huevo ” means to “keep you mouth shut” Muerdete un huevo. Ya lo dijiste mucho. Keep you mouth shut, you have said enough”. An idiom sometimes used is “ buscarle el pelo al huevo ” which means nitpicking.
Type: Popular Slang. Literal Meaning: eggs. Meaning: balls. Ese vato s tiene huevos; es muy valiente. (That guy sure has balls; he s very brave.) Audio/Video CLICK HERE FOR MORE MEXICAN SLANG.... 
Spanish. estar hasta los huevos is the same as estoy hasta el cono , coño estoy hasta los cojones estoy hasta el culo. De maybe the most offensive would be the second. one, and if possible we must avoid these expressions. too 
HUEVOS. The word means eggs, but the reference to balls is so strong that you have to watch out using the word at all. Polite girls would probably order blanquillos (little white things) from a male waiter. Huevos son lokin'!......
Listen also to this conversation from our program as our young traveler David buys a train ticket to Granada: If you can't quite understand this dialog, register and PRACTICE SPANISH for FREE. Then listen to the whole story as our hero travels though Spain. You can also play-WITHOUT registering: 
George Lopez uses it everyone once in a while. I know i spelt it wrong because i spelt huevos, but i think it means balls what George says. So just tell me what you THINK or KNOW. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service. 
What many consider to be the proper spelling of Guero, a Spanish slang term for light-skinned Mexican or Whiteboy. I'm. surprised the Beck album version,  Guero , is defined but not this one. Maybe it's a Norcal thing. 