The duodenum is the upper portion of the small intestines in mammals. The duodenum is the section of the intestines that connects to the stomach and pancreas. It's the location where digestion takes place. The duodenum's function is to accept chyme from the stomach and complete the digestion of food. Chyme is the mixture of stomach acid and swallowed food. Bile released from the gallbladder is also delivered to the duodenum for fat digestion.
The small intestine is responsible for most of your food digestion and all of your food absorption. The duodenum is the first section and is about a foot long. It digests all types of food (carbohydrates, proteins, and fats) with the help of pancreatic juices. 
Together with the jejunum, and the ileum it forms the small intestine. It is connected to the stomach above and the jejunum below it. When food enters the duodenum, there are multiple feed-back pathways and nervous reflexes that will affect how fast the stomach empties as well as the secretion of other hormones. The duodenum plays an important role in regulating the emptying of stomach contents into the small intestine. When chyme enters the duodenum, it acts as a stimulant for the release of secretin and cholecystokinin which are released by the epithelial cell walls of the duodenum.
The human digestive system is a series of organs that converts food into essential nutrients that are absorbed into the body and eliminates unused waste material. It is essential to good health because if the digestive system shuts down, the body cannot be nourished or rid itself of waste. 
In humans, the duodenum is a hollow jointed tube about 25–38 cm (10–15 inches) long connecting the stomach to the jejunum. It begins with the duodenal bulb and ends at the suspensory muscle of duodenum. The duodenum is a 25–38 cm C-shaped structure lying adjacent to the stomach. It is divided anatomically into four sections. The first part of the duodenum lies within the peritoneum but its other parts are retroperitoneal.
Many chemical secretions from the pancreas, liver and gallbladder mix with the chyme in the duodenum to facilitate chemical digestion. Located inferior to the stomach, the duodenum is a 10-12 inch (25-30 cm) long C-shaped, hollow tube. The duodenum is a part of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, attached to the pyloric sphincter of the stomach on its superior end and to the jejunum of the small intestine on its inferior end.... Click to read more below. The duodenum is the first and shortest segment of the small intestine. It receives partially digested food (known as chyme) from the stomach and plays a vital role in the chemical digestion of chyme in preparation for absorption in the small intestin
What are the Functions of the Duodenum. The small intestine consists of three segments: duodenum, jejunum and ileum. Every segment of the small intestine performs different digesting functions. The duodenum is involved in breaking down the food and absorption of nutrients. Duodenum Overview. The duodenum is C-shaped organ located below the stomach and it curves around the pancreas.
The jejunum (/dʒɨˈdʒuːnəm/) is the second part of the small intestine in humans and most higher vertebrates, including mammals, reptiles, and birds. The jejunum lies between the duodenum and the ileum. The jejunum is considered to begin at the attachment of the suspensory muscle of the duodenum to the duodenum, a location called the duodenojejunal flexure. The division between the jejunum and ileum is not anatomically distinct.
[edit]. The first part of the small intestine is called the duodenum. The middle part is the jejunum. This is where most of the nutrients in food are absorbed into the blood. The last part of the small intestine is called the ileum. This part connects to the large intestine. 