Dr Sue Loughlin and Dr Brian Baptie visit the erupting Eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull volcano In iceland on 16 may. 2010 they make observations of the eruption column and take samples of ash for further. analysis A major eruption then began at a nearby volcano, Katla, in 1823. Although it is possible that the new eruption of Eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull could be followed by an eruption At, katla the linkages between the two volcanoes are not well. understood
Iceland is a country of fire and ice, home to several volcanoes and straddling two tectonic plates. The Eyjafjallajokull volcano began erupting in March. On 14 April, the eruption entered a new explosive phase which was to bring European airspace to a standstill. The eruption threw thousands of tonnes of mineral ash into the air-forced higher by steam plumes created as glacial ice melted. The ash cloud produced by the eruption of a sub-glacial volcano in Iceland brought chaos to the European air industry between 14 and 21 April.
Last year: Southern Iceland's Eyjafjallajokull glacier sent ash into the air in April last year bringing Europe to a virtual standstill. The 1783 eruption of the Laki volcano spewed a toxic cloud over Europe, killing tens of thousands of people. Crops failed and famine spread. In April 2010, the Eyjafjallajokull eruption prompted aviation officials to close Europe's air space for five days out of fear that the ash could harm jet engines.
The eruption was far larger than last year's eruption at the Eyjafjallajokull volcano 80 miles away, but scientists said it was unlikely to have the same global impact as that one, which left 10 million travellers stranded around the world. In April 2010, the Eyjafjallajokull eruption prompted aviation officials to close Europe's air space for five days out of fear that the ash could harm jet engines.
Friday 16 April 1830 GMT — The enormous plume of hot volcanic ash and gas, reaching a height of about 24 000 feet (7.3 km), can be clearly seen erupting from the ice-capped Eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull. Volcano, eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull a volcano On The Eastern volcanic zone In, southern iceland began to erupt On 14. april 2010 A major eruption then began at a nearby volcano, Katla, in 1823. Although it is possible that the new eruption of Eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull could be followed by an eruption At, katla the linkages between the two volcanoes are not well. understood
A peek into the roots of the eruption of the Eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull volcano In iceland earlier this year that disrupted flights Across europe could shed light on the mysterious behavior of volcanoes that have been dormant for. centuries 
The 2010 eruptions of Eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull were volcanic events At eyjafjallajoekull Eyjafjallajökull in, iceland which although relatively small for, volcanic eruptions caused enormous disruption to air travel across western And northern europe over an initial period of six Days in. april 2010 The ice cap covers the caldera of a volcano 1,666 metres (5,466 ft) high, which has erupted relatively frequently since the last ice age. The most recent major eruptions occurred in 920, 1612 and from 1821 to 1823.
Rated a 2 on the VEI scale, Eyjafjallajokull's eruption caused glacial flooding and created a 10 kilometre-high column of ash that shut down air travel over Europe. But, unlike the Pinatubo, Krakatoa or Mt St Helens eruptions, it is not expected to have any effect on global temperatures. The largest eruptions to date have a VEI of 8. At 7 on the VEI scale, the eruption of the Tambora volcano in Indonesia in 1815 is probably the largest historic eruption that we know of, says Cas. Mount Pinatubo, on the Philippine island of Luzon erupted in 1991, killing hundreds.
In fact, the eruption of Eyjafjallajokull (which means 'island mountain glacier') is small compared to other recent eruptions such as Pinatubo and Mount St Helens, says Professor Ray Cas from Melbourne's Monash University. The largest eruptions to date have a VEI of 8. At 7 on the VEI scale, the eruption of the Tambora volcano in Indonesia in 1815 is probably the largest historic eruption that we know of, says Cas. Mount Pinatubo, on the Philippine island of Luzon erupted in 1991, killing hundreds.
While the eruption of Eyjafjallajokull (pronounced ay-yah-FYAH-lah-yoh-kuhl) has had a major impact on modern-day air travellers, spare a thought for our ancestors who were nearly wiped out by a volcanic eruption 73,000 years ago. The largest eruptions to date have a VEI of 8. At 7 on the VEI scale, the eruption of the Tambora volcano in Indonesia in 1815 is probably the largest historic eruption that we know of, says Cas. Mount Pinatubo, on the Philippine island of Luzon erupted in 1991, killing hundreds.