Course duration and certification. The Appointed Person For First Aid course video material last for approximately 110 minutes. To gain your course certificate, you must pass an end of course test, consisting of 50 multiple choice questions. The pass mark is set at 80%.
The minimum first-aid provision for any work site is: a clearly identified and suitably stocked first-aid box, an appointed person to look after the first-aid arrangements in the workplace and information for employees on first-aid arrangements.
In relation to the workplace, a first aider is someone who has passed and is in receipt of a valid 4-day, Health and Safety Executive approved training course for carrying out First Aid at work. A qualified first aider can carry out the duties of an appointed person. back to top.
The minimum first-aid provision on any work site is:  a suitably stocked first-aid kit (see Q4);  an appointed person to take charge of first-aid arrangements (see Q5);  information for employees about first-aid arrangements (see Q9).
Appointed persons also replenish the First Aid Box when required and ensure emergency equipment is kept in good working order. An appointed person should only administer First Aid appropriate to their level of training.
For regulatory purposes, successfully completing an EFAW course will enable the student to act as a first-aider in the workplace. The role of the appointed person remains and there continues to be no regulatory requirement for such personnel to undertake first aid training. However, employers can still send appointed persons on basic first aid training such as on EFAW courses, in which case they would become first-aiders in regulatory terms.
An appointed person does not need first-aid training.An appointed person is not necessary where there are an adequate number of appropriately trained first-aiders. Q6: What is a first-aider? A first-aider is someone who has done training appropriate to the level identified in the needs assessment.
1 ensured that there is either an appointed person to take charge of first-aid arrangements or, if necessary, there are appropriate numbers of suitably trained first-aiders; 2  ensured their are adequate facilities and a suitable stocked first-aid box; 3  provided you with information about the first-aid arrangements.