OWL has been designed to meet this need for a Web Ontology Language. OWL is part of the growing stack of W3C recommendations related to the Semantic Web. XML provides a surface syntax for structured documents, but imposes no semantic constraints on the meaning of these documents. 1 The OWL Web Ontology Language Test Cases document contains a large set of test cases for the language; 2  The OWL Use Cases and Requirements document contains a set of use cases for a web ontology language and compiles a set of requirements for OWL.
The Ontology Web Language for Services (OWL-S) is a core set of markup language constructs for describing the properties and capabilities of Web services in unambiguous, computer-interpretable form. 
Web Ontology Language OWL. The Web Ontology Language OWL extends RDF and RDFS. Its primary aim is to bring the expressive and reasoning power of description logic to the semantic web. Unfortunately, not everything from RDF can be expressed in DL. 
3. OWL BASICS As an ontology language, OWL is primarily concerned with defining terminology that can be used in RDF documents, i.e., classes and properties. Most ontology languages have some mechanism for specifying a taxonomy of the classes. In particular, OWL extends the Resource Description Framework (RDF) and RDF Schema, two early Semantic Web standards endorsed by the W3C. Syntactically, an OWL ontology is a valid RDF document and as such also a well-formed XML document.
This is one of six parts of the W3C Recommendation for OWL, the Web Ontology Language. It has been developed by the Web Ontology Working Group as part of the W3C Semantic Web Activity (Activity Statement, Group Charter) for publication on 10 February 2004. 1 The OWL Web Ontology Language Test Cases document contains a large set of test cases for the language; 2  The OWL Use Cases and Requirements document contains a set of use cases for a web ontology language and compiles a set of requirements for OWL.
The Ontology Web Language (OWL) is a set of markup languages which are designed for use by applications that need to process the content of information instead of just presenting information to humans. OWL has more facilities for expressing meaning and semantics than XML, RDF, and RDF-S, and thus OWL goes beyond these languages in its ability to represent machine interpretable content on the Web. OWL is part of the W3C recommendations related to the Semantic Web.
The next element required for the Semantic Web is the OWL Web ontology language (OWL), which can formally describe the semantics of classes and properties used in Web documents. For machines to perform useful reasoning tasks on these documents, the language must go beyond the basic semantics of RDF Schema. To reach the visionary goal of a Semantic Web, the W3C must develop a Web ontology language. Get an overview of this farsighted concept and contemplate the various use cases that make this language vital to the future of the Web. By Peter Mikhalenko | August 20, 2003, 12:00 AM PST.
The OWL Web Ontology Language is designed for use by applications that need to process the content of information instead of just presenting information to humans. 1 The OWL Web Ontology Language Test Cases document contains a large set of test cases for the language; 2  The OWL Use Cases and Requirements document contains a set of use cases for a web ontology language and compiles a set of requirements for OWL.
INTRODUCTION The OWL Web Ontology Language is an international standard for encoding and exchanging ontologies and is designed to support the Semantic Web. The concept of the Semantic Web is that information should be given explicit meaning, so that machines can process it more intelligently. In particular, OWL extends the Resource Description Framework (RDF) and RDF Schema, two early Semantic Web standards endorsed by the W3C. Syntactically, an OWL ontology is a valid RDF document and as such also a well-formed XML document.
Ontologies are a formal way to describe taxonomies and classification networks, essentially defining the structure of knowledge for various domains: the nouns representing classes of objects and the verbs representing relations between the objects. An ontology is an explicit specification of a conceptualization. The data described by an ontology in the OWL family is interpreted as a set of individuals and a set of property assertions which relate these individuals to each other.