I think far too many people think that breeding cats is easy, you put two cats together and hey presto you have kittens. They have no idea of all the things that can and do go wrong from time to time. Not only kittens born premature or with deformaties but also the problems that can happen to the queen and the stud. The problems that happen with a queen left to call and call, or over breeding a queen, a queen dying whilst giving birth. 
My cat just gave birth to 4 kittens last night. She had difficulty delivering the last 2 and the last kitten was born still birth. It looked as if the kittens head was crushed and it didn't have any fur as if it weren't fully developed. The 3rd kitten born (which is still barely hanging onto life) is my most concern. It was born without any fur/skin over it's spine, towards the rear end of it's torso. It's raw flesh and it bleeds. Mommy cats keeps licking the area, which does seem to be healing it some. However, the kitten seems too weak to eat and it gasps for air
The lack of hair can cause health issues with kittens in the first weeks of life because of susceptibility to respiratory infections. Reputable breeders will not let their kittens go to new homes without being at least 12 weeks of age to ensure the kitten is mature enough to cope in a new environment. The Sphynx is a breed of cat developed through selective breeding starting in the 1960s, known for its lack of a coat (fur), though it is not truly hairless. The skin should have the texture of chamois, as it has a fine layer of down. Whiskers may be present, either whole or broken, or may be totally abs
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Here's a good site that discusses newborn kittens. From what I have read, it could be a sign that they were born a little prematurely. Premature kittens often resemble mice in that their tails, legs and ears lack fur. http://www.messybeast.com/handrear.htm#p... Source(s): justlilolme · 7 years ago. 
Contrary to what some may believe, kittens are not born naked. Their skin is covered by a short, soft and/or sometimes wooly like hair or fur. Sometimes the kitten’s fur is already a similar color to what is expected as an adult, other times it is not. Most kittens will develop a coarser, longer, and sometimes darker coat by the time they reach six to eight months of age. Many variations exist again depending upon cat breed and can affect different factors of the coat such as length, color, and/or texture. Each hair on a cat grows from a simple opening within the skin known as the hair follicle. Even more interesting, kittens are born with all of the hair follicles it will ever possess. Any future differences or changes of the cat’s coat will be due to changes within the follicl
Now, imagine your pets completely hairless. You probably can't. When an animal is without its fur, they're almost completely unrecognizable. Think about getting a fluffy dog or cat wet; afterwards, it just looks like skin and bones. A lot of what we love about animals are their fur style and colorations. Without the hair (for whatever reason), they just look like little aliens. 
My friends Manx cat just had a litter of kittens today, she had 6 babies and every one of them was born dead. Her actual due date was in 2 days, so she wasnt too early. All of the kittens appeared to be a little underdeveloped, and they didnt have any hair on them. The kittens will be any one of the following: MM, mm, or Mm. Kittens born Mm will be manx like their parents. Kittens born mm will have normal tails. Kittens with the MM genotype (ie they are Homozygous) will not survive as the MM genotype is fatal.
No, it is not possible. Cats are different to other mammals in that the female requires the act of mating in order to stimulate ovulation. This is called reflex ovulation. A … female that is not mated will not ovulate. 1 Save a Kitten's Life and Bottle Feed It A mother cat is not always able to care for her kittens the way that she should. 2  She might get ill directly after their birth and not have enough milk. 3  She may even reject he…. 4  The Basics of Kitten Care Taking care of kittens is a lot of fun.