1 Ischemic cardiomyopathy is a common cause of heart failure. 2  non-ischemic: any form of cardiomyopathy not related to coronary artery disease. 3  noncompaction: a rare form, also called “spongiform cardiomyopathy,” is a congenital disease (present at birth) resulting from abnormal development of the heart muscle in the womb. 1 idiopathic: any cardiomyopathy with no known cause. 2  ischemic: this term describes a heart that can no longer pump blood to the rest of the body due to coronary artery disease. 3  Blood vessels to the heart become narrowed and blocked, depriving the heart muscle of oxygen.
Typically, patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy have a history of acute myocardial infarction, however, it may occur in patients with coronary artery disease, but without a past history of acute myocardial infarction. This cardiomyopathy is one of the leading causes of sudden cardiac death. Ischemic cardiomyopathy is caused by a lack of oxygen due to a narrowing of coronary arteries, in turn causing cell death. This can cause different levels of tissue injury and affect large and intermediate arteries alike.
Ischemic cardiomyopathy is typically caused by coronary artery disease or a previous heart attack. Risk factors for coronary artery disease include: 1  a family history of heart disease. 2  high blood pressure (hypertension). 3  smoking. 4  high cholesterol. 5  obesity. 6  a sedentary lifestyle. Prognosis for Ischemic Cardiomyopathy. Treating the underlying cause of IC (most often coronary artery disease) is key to preventing the serious complications that untreated IC can lead to. Untreated IC can eventually lead to heart failure, blood clots, or death.
Non Ischemic cardiomyopathy is defined as a myocardial disorder in which the heart muscle is structurally and functionally abnormal, in the absence of other causes of heart dysfunction, like coronary artery disease, hypertension, valvular disease and congenital heart disease. 
Ischemic cardiomyopathy (IC) is a condition that occurs when the heart muscle is weakened. In this condition, the left ventricle, which is the main heart muscle, is usually enlarged and dilated. This condition can be a result of a heart attack or coronary artery disease, a narrowing of the arteries. Prognosis for Ischemic Cardiomyopathy. Treating the underlying cause of IC (most often coronary artery disease) is key to preventing the serious complications that untreated IC can lead to. Untreated IC can eventually lead to heart failure, blood clots, or death.
Ischemic cardiomyopathy is caused by coronary heart disease -- the buildup of a hard substance called plaque in the arteries to the heart. It becomes harder for the heart to fill and pump blood to the body. Patients with this condition usually have a history of heart attacks or angina (chest pain). Ischemic cardiomyopathy is a common cause of heart failure. It is the most common type of cardiomyopathy in the United States.
Ischemic cardiomyopathy is a term used to describe patients whose heart can no longer pump enough blood to the rest of their body due to coronary artery disease. Coronary artery disease is a narrowing of the small blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to the heart. These patients often have heart failure. It becomes harder for the heart to fill and pump blood to the body. Patients with this condition usually have a history of heart attacks or angina (chest pain). Ischemic cardiomyopathy is a common cause of heart failure. It is the most common type of cardiomyopathy in the United States.
Ischemic cardiomyopathy is the cause of more than 60% of all systolic heart failures in most countries of the world. A chest radiography that demonstrates coronary artery calcification is a probable indication of ischemic cardiomyopathy. Among the causes for ischemic cardiomyopathy are: 1  Diabetes. Ischemic cardiomyopathy is caused by a lack of oxygen due to a narrowing of coronary arteries, in turn causing cell death. This can cause different levels of tissue injury and affect large and intermediate arteries alike.
Causes. Ischemic cardiomyopathy is weakness in the muscle of the heart due to coronary artery disease. Individuals with ischemic cardiomyopathy typically have a history of myocardial infarction (heart attack). Nonischemic cardiomyopathy is weakness in the muscle of the heart that is not due to coronary artery disease.