R is a programming language: you do data analysis in R by writing scripts and functions in the R programming language. R is a complete, interactive, object-oriented language: designed by statisticians, for statisticians. The language provides objects, operators and functions that make the process of exploring, modeling, and visualizing data a natural one.
The S language is often the vehicle of choice for research in statistical methodology, and R provides an Open Source route to participation in that activity. One of R’s strengths is the ease with which well-designed publication-quality plots can be produced, including mathematical symbols and formulae where needed.
R is a programming language and software environment for statistical computing and graphics. The R language is widely used among statisticians and data miners for developing statistical software and data analysis. Polls, surveys of data miners, and studies of scholarly literature databases show that R's popularity has increased substantially in recent years.
R is a dialect of the S language, and has come to be — by far — the dominant dialect. S started as a research project at Bell Labs a few decades ago, it is a language that was developed for data analysis, statistical modeling, simulation and graphics.
R, like S, is designed around a true computer language, and it allows users to add additional functionality by defining new functions. Much of the system is itself written in the R dialect of S, which makes it easy for users to follow the algorithmic choices made.
R is an environment for statistical analysis: Available in the R language are functions for virtually every data manipulation, statistical model, or chart that the data analyst could ever need.
Introduction to R. R is a language and environment for statistical computing and graphics. It is a GNU project which is similar to the S language and environment which was developed at Bell Laboratories (formerly AT&T, now Lucent Technologies) by John Chambers and colleagues.