Traveler and his descendants were mated to some excellent mares, and many Quarter Horses today trace to him in male line of descent. The Most Influential Sire. The most famous of all sires in the establishment of the Quarter Horse breed was Peter McCue, foaled in 1895, and bred by Samuel Watkins of Petersburg, Illinois. 
The American Quarter Horse is the most popular breed in the United States today, and the American Quarter Horse Association is the largest breed registry in the world, with almost 3 million American Quarter Horses currently registered. The American Quarter Horse is an American breed of horse that excels at sprinting short distances. Its name came from its ability to outdistance other horse breeds in races of a quarter mile or less; some individuals have been clocked at speeds up to 55 mph (88.5 km/h).
iDakotaone analyzes the top 18 popular horse breeds taken from 6,831 Google sites. Below is a list of top 10 horse breeds according to their statistics. If you Like This Article, You Might be interested on Top 10 Dog Breeds in the World, Most Dangerous Animals and Fastest Animals on Earth. Appaloosa: The appaloosa being one of the most popular breeds in United States, originated from Ancient Greece. Having a leopard-spotted skin, the appaloosa generates interest and attraction for the beholder as well as for those who study genetics.
Native American Horse Breeds. The descendants of Indian horses are still with us, including some of the most popular breeds in America today. 
In most cases, bloodlines of horse breeds are recorded with a breed registry. However, in horses, the concept is somewhat flexible, as open stud books are created for developing horse breeds that are not yet fully true-breeding. 1 Stock horse, agile, heavily muscled riding horses of several different breeds, suitable for working cattle. 2  Not to be confused with the breed Australian Stock Horse. 3  Some representatives colloquially called cow horse or  cow pony  in the western United States.
The American Quarter Horse is the most popular breed in the United States today, and the American Quarter Horse Association is the largest breed registry in the world, with over 5 million American Quarter Horses registered worldwide. The American Quarter Horse is an American breed of horse that excels at sprinting short distances. Its name came from its ability to outdistance other horse breeds in races of a quarter mile or less; some individuals have been clocked at speeds up to 55 mph (88.5 km/h).
In most cases, bloodlines of horse breeds are recorded with a breed registry and are considered “registered”. Photo: Appaloosa by possumgirl2, on Flickr. E veryone has a favorite breed of horse. These five horse breeds are just an example of the most common in the United States. They have origins from as far away as Spain and Britain but most were bred for their ability to do a certain type of work or for their distinctive markings
American Quarter Horse. The American Quarter Horse is one of the oldest and most popular breeds in America. Historically, the breed got its name by winning races that were a quarter mile long. Today, the American Quarter Horse has defined itself as a great all-around breed. E veryone has a favorite breed of horse. These five horse breeds are just an example of the most common in the United States.
On average, an American Quarter Horse stands between 14.3 and 16 hands high (59” to 64”at the shoulder) and weighs from 800 to 1,200 pounds with a very muscular build. The American Quarter Horse is one of the oldest and most popular breeds in America. E veryone has a favorite breed of horse. These five horse breeds are just an example of the most common in the United States.
They can star on the trail or in the show ring. And even if we moved on to other breeds, many of us can tell fond tales of a Quarter Horse that started it all when we rode as youths. The American Quarter Horse is the largest breed registry in the world and the horses are enjoyed globally. 