Once refrigerated, they must continue to stay in the fridge until use, but will stay good up to 6 months (or more) only who keeps eggs that long anyway. Oh, yeah, commercial egg producers. Store bought eggs can be an average of 3 weeks to 3 months old by the time you buy them. Fresh eggs are very hardy. 
1 Eggs out of the shell will usually stay good for 2 to 4 days in the fridge and one year in the freezer; egg yolks and egg whites may also be frozen separately and used later for cooking or baking purposes. 1 To freeze whole eggs: (1) Remove eggs from their shells; (2) Pierce yolks and gently mix in 1/2 teaspoon of salt for every one cup of raw eggs (if using eggs for main dishes) or 1 tablespoon of sugar (if using for baking or desserts); (3) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags and freeze.
Hard boiled eggs must be refrigerated. You can extend the answer to how long do hard boiled eggs last by storing them in your fridge (refrigerator) immediately after preparation or use. Once prepared, hard boiled eggs should be stored in a tightly closed container in the fridge to keep out moisture and other contaminants. 
Expert answer: We tell consumers to look to the egg carton sell-by dates to judge freshness. The USDA says that the date can be no further ahead than 30 days after the packing date. Your store can choose any day within that 30 days to date the eggs. If you don't find a date on the carton, using the eggs within three weeks of the carton date should allow them to be used within optimum quality, meaning the yolk will be high and upstanding, and the white will be tall and firm. Expert answer: Eggs are unlikely to go bad in a refrigerator setting, but would dry up over time. Eggs don't automatically go bad or spoil after date. If the eggs do not already have salmonella, it will not grow in an egg as it sits in your fridge.
1 Therefore, unless you are not expecting to keep the eggs for very long, you should not put them in water. 2  If you must wash the eggs, use HOT running water. 3  Farmers have 30 days from the day an egg is laid to get it to stores. 4  Then, the stores have another 30 days to sell the eggs. 1 Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. 2  If eggs start out as Grade AA, they remain AA for only two weeks if properly refrigerated.
Eggs are perishable and must be stored in the refrigerator or freezer. Many factors can affect how long eggs last. When properly handled and stored, eggs rarely spoil. However, if you keep them too long, they are likely to dry up. Freezer Storage: If you have more eggs than you can use within a few weeks, you can freeze them, out of their shells. Freeze only clean, fresh eggs. Place them in freezer containers, seal tightly and label with the number of eggs, whites or yolks and the date. Defrost frozen eggs overnight in the refrigerator.
Check the Egg Carton. When figuring out how long you should keep eggs, start by looking at the egg carton: 1  Pack date-According to USDA guidelines, this is the date when the eggs were washed, graded, and packed into the cartons. 2  This is a 3-digit code that coincides with the day of the year (December 31 would be 365). To prolong the life of your eggs, don't keep them in the door of the refrigerator, even if that's where the egg holder that came with the fridge is supposed to go. The door is the warmest part of the fridge, and eggs need to be in the coldest part of the fridge instead, preferably in their original carton.
Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell. 
I have a flock of free range chickens and my unwashed eggs last over 6 months in sealed containers in the fridge. I had unwashed eggs at room temperature for over 3 months with no problem at all. I had 6 unwashed eggs out of the sealed container in the fridge for 8 months and they were good to eat. Any egg can go bad, of course, but undamaged eggs will last many weeks in the fridge and I've read studies that have even claimed to have edible eggs after a year at room temperature. I don't refrigerate the eggs that my chickens lay and have yet to see one go bad.
You should always purchase eggs by the sell-by or expiration date. Once you get them home, you can keep them for up to 5 weeks from the purchase date, even if the sell-by date expires during that time. To prolong the life of your eggs, don't keep them in the door of the refrigerator, even if that's where the egg holder that came with the fridge is supposed to go. The door is the warmest part of the fridge, and eggs need to be in the coldest part of the fridge instead, preferably in their original carton.