1 Facet Arthropathy: An Arthritic Back Facet arthropathy (FA) is a form of degenerative arthritis that affects the spine. 2  It targets the facet joints of the spine and causes arthritis-like pain in the back. 3  Facet 4  …. Lumbar Facet Arthropathy: Treating Lower Back Pain Lower back pain is a common problem in the modern world. The ICD-9 code for lumbar facet arthropathy is 721.3. Lumbar facet  arthropathy is a degenerative condition of the lumbar facet joints  in the spine which shows arthritic ch … anges.
(Redirected from Hypertrophic facet arthropathy). Facet syndrome is a syndrome in which the zygapophysial joints (synovial diarthroses, from C2 to S1) cause back pain. 55% of facet syndrome cases occur in cervical vertebrae, and 31% in lumbar. 
Hypertrophic facet arthropathy. This disease refers the degeneration of those facet joints that connect vertebrae with one another. This is due to the loss of cartilage with the passage of time. Hypertrophic facet arthopathy is a very common reason of neck and back pain. Facet arthropathy Causes. 1  The real cause of facet arthropathy is yet to be diagnosed but generally it is observed that degeneration of facet joints is the main cause of it. 2  Fracture or torn ligaments may also be a reason. 3  Reduction of space between two vertebrae that compels facet joint to rub against each other.
Just like the hip and the knee, the facet joints can also become arthritic and painful, and they can be a source of back pain. The pain and discomfort that is caused by degeneration and arthritis of this part of the spine is called facet arthropathy, which simply means a disease or abnormality of the facet joints. The ICD-9 code for lumbar facet arthropathy is 721.3. Lumbar facet  arthropathy is a degenerative condition of the lumbar facet joints  in the spine which shows arthritic ch … anges.
Facet Arthropathy and Back Pain. Facet arthropathy is another name for facet arthrosis, facet joint arthritis or facet joint syndrome. Arthropathy means a painful or diseased condition and the term facet denotes that this condition affects the spinal facet joints, also known as zygapophysial joints.
To find out if facet arthropathy is causing your back pain, your doctor may order the following tests: 1  A CT scan (CAT scan) or MRI, which shows evidence of facet joint degeneration, even in most people who only have mild to moderate pain. 2  A bone scan, which shows areas of active inflammation in the spine. 
Lumbar facet arthropathy. Keywords; lumbar facet arthropathy, low back and leg pain, chiropractic, help for sciatica. Nope, this is not a porn page. There are some very strange people in this world. Like my cousin who sent me this picture, and then said that, if I blog it, then I'm a dirty old man. Hmph. Maybe, but anyway I couldn't resist it. These are quite normal. When you have lumbar facet arthropathy, you wouldn't be able to lie like that. It would give you lumbago and perhaps also pain radiating down the leg; the part the lower limb affected depends on which nerve is pinched.