Gran is short for granulocyte. The White Blood Count (WBC) in a blood test result is broken down into Granulocytes (GRAN) and Lymphocytes (LYM). White blood cells are part of the immune system. An elevated level of granulocytes is indicative of a bacterial infection. Viral infections can cause low lymphocyte counts. 
A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the kinds and numbers of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have. 1 This test measures the amount of space (volume) red blood cells take up in the blood. 2  The value is given as a percentage of red blood cells in a volume of blood. 3  For example, a hematocrit of 38 means that 38% of the blood's volume is made of red blood cells.
Gran is short for granulocyte. The White Blood Count (WBC) in a blood test result is broken down into Granulocytes (GRAN) and Lymphocytes (LYM). White blood cells are part of … the immune system. An elevated level of granulocytes is indicative of a bacterial infection. IMM GRAN means 'immature granulocytes' which are a type of white  blood cells. A blood test indicating an IMM GRAN less then 1% is  nothing significant, and is within normal … range.
Also, what does it mean when your Gran % is high and you Ly % is low...same with gran # and ly #. (Yes I called my doctor, but he hasn't called me back yet.) =) I'm pregnant, my rbc/hgb/hct is low, but that's normal for me during pregnancy. (I am usually a bit anemic through-out, my body doesn't... Also, what does it mean when your Gran % is high and you Ly % is low...same with gran # and ly #. (Yes I called my doctor, but he hasn&#39;t called me back yet.) =) I&#39;m pregnant, my rbc/hgb/hct is low, but that&#39;
Granulocytosis occurs when there are too many granulocytes in the blood. Granulocytes are types of white blood cells that, under a microscope, appear to contain small granules or particles. These granules contain a number of proteins important for the function of the immune system. Neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils are three types of granulocyte. The presence of granulocytes in the blood is normal. These white blood cells respond to foreign matter in the body. However, having a high number of granulocytes in the blood is not normal. It usually indicates a health problem.
So, Ly  is an abbreviation for lymphocytes, one type of white blood cell. Gran is an abbreviation for granulocyte, a type of white cell that includes basophils, eosinophils and neutrophils. They all have granules in the cell plasma ... more. 
Gran is short for granulocyte. The White Blood Count (WBC) in a blood test result is broken down into Granulocytes (GRAN) and Lymphocytes (LYM). White blood cells are part of the immune system. An elevated level of granulocytes is indicative of a bacterial infection. A bone profile blood test measures for protein in the blood. If a  bone profile low protein and inflammation was one of the results in  your blood count, it means that an in … fection is present.
Answers. Best Answer: Granulocytes. It is part of your white blood cells and if it is high it indicates your body is fighting off something. If your blood sugar is high, this is probably kidney related. What does High GRAN% on my blood test results mean? My Amylase serum is high, my glucose serum is high, my HGB is high, my Hematocrit is high also.
So, Ly  is an abbreviation for lymphocytes, one type of white blood cell. Gran is an abbreviation for granulocyte, a type of white cell that includes basophils, eosinophils and neutrophils. They all have granules in the cell plasma and cyte means cell, hence the name granulocyte. Also, what does it mean when your Gran % is high and you Ly % is low...same with gran # and ly #. (Yes I called my doctor, but he hasn&#39;t called me back yet.) =) I&#39;m pregnant, my rbc/hgb/hct is low, but that&#39;s normal for me during pregnancy.