Lemons will keep for up to a week at room temperature, two to three weeks refrigerated. Lemon zest (peel) can be frozen for months. Juicing lemons. To get the most juice from a lemon, it should be allowed to reach room temperature, or microwaved for a few seconds prior to juicing. To lighten hair, dampen it with lemon juice and sit out in the sun for an hour. This does work, I tried it myself. Hey, it was the 80’s! I’ve read that the juice of a lemon mixed with one cup warm water makes for a great hair conditioner.
ANSWER: Honestly, we do not know for sure. Lemon has a slow oxidation rate, but we would not leave lemon water out for more than a few hours, just to be safe, especially in warm weather. Lemon juice will oxidize from air, light, and heat. 
You should not drink fruit infused water that has been sitting out at room temperature for more than 4-5 hours because it will become a breeding ground for mold and bacteria (even if you cannot see it). Refrigeration is key! If you infuse for 4 or more hours, though, be sure to remove the fruits and herbs from the water, then store the infused water in the fridge for up to 3 days.
A good rule of thumb is to infuse for 1-2 hours at room temperature or in the fridge for 3-4 hours to achieve potent flavor and water color. If you infuse for 4 or more hours, though, be sure to remove the fruits and herbs from the water, then store the infused water in the fridge for up to 3 days.
That includes heat-up and cool-down time -- so for example, if you let t … he turkey sit at room temperature for 30 minutes, then put it in the refrigerator, it will be ok as long as it gets to 40 within an hour and a half (total time under 40 is two hours or less). The same goes for cooked turkey. Fresh-brewed tea can sit at room temperature for up to eight hours if unsweetened. The flavor will begin to sour in sweetened tea after about six hours. The sour taste whi … ch develops is bacteria growth and thus tea that sits too long at room temperature should be avoided
You can infuse overnight or up to 12 hours! If you infuse for 4 or more hours, though, be sure to remove the fruits and herbs from the water, then store the infused water in the fridge for up to 3 days.
1 juice from 1/2 lemon in at least 8 ounces of tepid, warm, or hot water and drink! 2  You can always add more lemon though to get extra benefits. 3  One thing I like to do is to run a knife through the lemon pulp before squeezing it into the water. 1 Lemon water is easy to fix. 2  Mix the pulp. 3  juice from 1/2 lemon in at least 8 ounces of tepid, warm, or hot water and drink! 4
Refilling Lemon Water. Because sliced lemons will keep for up to three days in the refrigerator, you can refill your water pitcher during this time period to make more lemon water. While the subsequent refills will not be as flavorful as the original, allowing the water to steep for longer will create a similar effect. Lemon and water is a natural pairing that makes water all the more delicious. This lightly flavored beverage is simple to create and can easily and safely be made in advance and stored in your refrigerator to have on hand.
To get the longest storage time out of lemon and water, refrigerate it. When kept at 40 degrees Fahrenheit or lower, lemon-infused water is safely stored for up to three days. Always use proper hygiene when making lemon water to prevent cross contamination, including washing your hands and using clean utensils. Lemon and water is a natural pairing that makes water all the more delicious. This lightly flavored beverage is simple to create and can easily and safely be made in advance and stored in your refrigerator to have on hand.