Review. The Name of the Rose takes place in the year 1327, Brother William of Baskerville is assigned an investigation of a possible heresy in a wealthy Italian Abbey, Abbaye de la Source. 
For the 1986 film adaptation, see The Name of the Rose (film) . For other uses, see The Name of the Rose (disambiguation) . The Name of the Rose (Italian: Il nome della rosa) is the 1980 debut novel by Italian author Umberto Eco. It is a historical murder mystery set in an Italian monastery, in the year 1327, an intellectual mystery combining semiotics in fiction, biblical analysis, medieval studies, and literary theory. 
Synopsis. Adapted from Umberto Eco 's best-selling novel, director Jean-Jacques Annaud 's The Name of the Rose is a 14th century murder-mystery thriller starring Sean Connery as a Sherlock Holmes-esque Franciscan monk called William of Baskerville. 
First published in Italy in 1980 as Il nome della rosa, William Weaver’s English translation of author Umberto Eco’s The Name of the Rose appeared in the United States in 1983, and in England in 1984. 1 The Name of the Rose was made into a film in 1986, directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud and starring Sean Connery as William of Baskerville, Christian Slater as Adso of Melk, and F. Murray Abraham as Bernard Gui.
This detailed literature summary also contains Bibliography on The Name of the Rose by Umberto Eco. First published in Italy in 1980 as Il nome della rosa, William Weaver's English translation of author Umberto Eco's The Name of the Rose appeared in the United States in 1983, and in England in 1984.
See plot summary for non-spoiler summarized description. Visit our Synopsis Help to learn more. The movie opens with the arrival of Franciscan monk William of Baskerville (Sean Connery) and his novice assistant, Adso of Melk (Christian Slater) at a Benedictine Abbey in Northern Italy in 1327. They are there to attend an important conference. Adso makes it out and, at the last minute, so does William after having rescued a handful of important books. They depart the smoldering Abbey and on the way Adso sees the girl one last time. The narrator, Adso in his old age, reports that she was his only secular love, but he never knew her name. The credits roll.
Detailed plot synopsis reviews of The Name of the Rose. William of Baskerville is a 14th Century monk who arrives at an Italian monastery to discuss theology, but when monks start turning up dead, he and his novice set out to find the killer. The first killing is believed to be a suicide, but William is suspicious. 
Through the use of a preface, Umberto Eco presents The Name of the Rose as a book he came upon by chance. That book was a translation of a manuscript written by Adso of Melk, a monk in the fourteenth century. Adso finds his naive naïve faith just as challenged As’william s, wits first by his’master s, revelations then by his own. Curiosity the, abbey he, learns is not a world apart, from but a microcosm, of the secular world outside its. Walls divine order and absolute truth give way to-human, made... relativistic
With the Abbey to play host to a council on the Franciscan's Order's belief that the Church should rid itself of wealth, William of Baskerville, a respected Franciscan monk, is asked to assist in determining the cause of the untimely death. 
The Name of the Rose Summary. First published in Italy in 1980 as Il nome della rosa, William Weaver's English translation of author Umberto Eco's The Name of the Rose appeared in the United States in 1983, and in England in 1984.