See also: Armorial bearings to the Commonwealth of Australia with examples. The Australian Coat of Arms are the property of the Commonwealth of Australia and are used by the Commonwealth to authenticate documents, to indicate ownership of property, and for other purposes of identification. They may not be used or reproduced by others for other purposes without permission. Strictly the Crest is the device above shield and hemlet on a coat of arms; in Australia's case it is the seven-pointed gold star on the wreath. The Australian Coat of Arms consists of: 1  The Badges of the six States of the Commonwealth arranged on a shield in two rows of three columns:
Commonwealth Coat of Arms The Commonwealth Coat of Arms symbolises the ownership and authority of the Australian Government. It was granted in a Royal Warrant in 1912. About the Commonwealth Coat of Arms The Commonwealth Coat of Arms is an emblem signifying the national unity of Australia. Symbols of Australia’s six states appear together on the shield, which is the central feature of a coat of arms. 
The coat of arms of Queensland is the oldest in Australia, and was first granted in by Queen Victoria in 1893 through the simplest form of heraldic grants; with the shield of arms, motto, helmet, mantling and crest. 
Australia's coat of arms features a kangaroo and emu. These two animals are prominent on the coat of arms because, not only are they uniquely Australian, but they are unable to walk backwards, and therefore represent forward progression-apt for a new, young country. They are not Australia's official faunal emblems, as Australia has no official faunal emblem. The kangaroo, together with the emu, are on the Australian coat of arms, firstly because they are unique to the Australian continent, and secondly because they represent forwa … rd progression. Neither animal is believed to be capable of taking a backward step easily.
The Commonwealth Coat of Arms is the formal symbol of the Commonwealth of Australia that signifies Commonwealth authority and ownership. The Arms are used by Australian Government departments and agencies, statutory and non-statutory authorities, the Parliament and Commonwealth courts and tribunals. The coat of arms is the basis of the Queen's Personal Australian Flag, and since 1973 a slightly modified version has formed the basis of the Great Seal of Australia.
The Commonwealth Coat of Arms is the formal symbol of the Commonwealth of Australia that signifies Commonwealth authority and ownership. The Commonwealth Coat of Arms is used by Australian Government departments and agencies, statutory and non-statutory authorities, the Parliament and Commonwealth courts and tribunals. The emu and the kangaroo are on the Australian coat of arms,  firstly because they are unique to the Australian continent, and  secondly because they represent forward progr … ession. Neither animal  is believed to be capable of taking a backward step easily.
Coat of Arms. Queen Victoria granted the Queensland Coat of Arms, the oldest State Arms in Australia, to the Colony of Queensland in 1893. The Coat of Arms symbolises the Queen's constitutional authority in the state. They were the first Arms assigned to a British colony since Charles II granted Jamaica its Arms in 1661. In 1977, during the Queen's Silver Jubilee year, the Coat of Arms was given a more modern appearance when Queen Elizabeth II granted the supporting animals, the brolga and the red deer.
Australia's coat of arms features a kangaroo and emu. These two animals are prominent on the coat of arms because, not only are they uniquely Australian, but they are unable t … o walk backwards, and therefore represent forward progression-apt for a new, young country. They are not Australia's official faunal emblems, as Australia has no official faunal emblem. The kangaroo, together with the emu, are on the Australian coat of arms, firstly because they are unique to the Australian continent, and secondly because they represent forwa … rd progression. Neither animal is believed to be capable of taking a backward step easily.
The coat of arms of Australia is the formal symbol of the Commonwealth of Australia and its monarch, currently Queen Elizabeth. The coat of arms is the basis of the Queen's Personal Australian Flag, and since 1973 a slightly modified version has formed the basis of the Great Seal of Australia.