District managers interview, hire, coordinate and discipline store managers, and check in on individual stores to make sure the store is stocked, clean and in proper working order. District managers create and maintain budgets, and coordinate with and report to senior management in the company. District managers managers are in charge of the operational practices of all stores making sure each runs smoothly, cleanly and meets any budget and sales goals and is complying with any marketing campaigns and promotions.
The average annual financial compensation for a Sally Beauty Supply Store Manager is around $29,000, according to Career Bliss.com. The site indicates a salary range between $16,000 and $55,000 per year. Anonymous surveys submitted by employees at Glassdoor.com report an annual salary range between $22,000 and $28,000.
Answers. Best Answer: I know someone who works at a Sally's in the Houston, Tx area. She is an assistant manager, has been working there for more than a year and makes about a dollar an hour over the minimum wage. You probably will start for less than $8.00/hour. Don't be ashamed to ask in advance what they will be paying you. Employment is a two way street.
Some future store leaders start as part-time employees in clerk or sales roles. The compensation of a Sally Beauty Supply Store Manager may include a base salary as well as a bonus. Variations in annual pay tend to correlate with the manager's ability to meet sales performance targets. The site indicates a salary range between $16,000 and $55,000 per year. Anonymous surveys submitted by employees at Glassdoor.com report an annual salary range between $22,000 and $28,000.
I was a manager there for 2 years.. I only worked in the Sally's company for a total of 2-1/2 years. It was, by far, the worst working experience ever. The only reason why Sally's is still around is because they treat their customers REALLY well. Employees are another story. They do not care about their employees-we can be replaced. Their words. The pay is the absoloute worst. The Co always brags about how much money THEIR making but pay the employees who make that money for them shit, which is why they have a constant turnover in employees.
Benefits. In addition to a base salary and bonus opportunity, Sally Beauty provides store managers with a benefits package, which includes sick, vacation and holiday pay, according to the company's website. The site indicates a salary range between $16,000 and $55,000 per year. Anonymous surveys submitted by employees at Glassdoor.com report an annual salary range between $22,000 and $28,000.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. I worked as a store manager for sally beauty supply company and i was on 27k a year with benefits. However, I believe manager salary varies based on territory and district. Yes, Her name was Sally Josephine Deluca. Sally was the daughter of the man who owned the original Sally Beauty Supply in New Orleans, LA. She was the original founder of a sm … all store in post war America.
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation recently announced a new ... 3 Sneaky Downsides of Working at Home (and How to Handle Them). Working at home can be a dream or a nightmare, depending on the job, your preferences, and the disposition of your colleagues. 