JT's alternate guitar: See the Soundbites page for some examples of JT's playing on these instruments (we provide bites from both a studio and a live recording). JT's 1992 Acoustic Guitar Magazine cover story by Jeffrey Pepper Rodgers describes his first three Olsons: James Taylor plays three guitars by James Olson. Two have an SJ body shape, one with a cutaway (because Taylor likes the sound, not because he plays up high on the neck), one without.
In his youth Taylor had a flirtation with electric guitar. He played a Silvertone and a Fender Duo-Sonic in his first rock bands. But starting with his first acoustic guitar, the J-50 he purchased in his teens, Taylor has had a love affair with natural tone generation that’s still in full bloom. At least it was until this Tuesday, when James Taylor’s Other Covers became available. The song opens Taylor’s new album, the sequel to last year’s successful Covers, which paid tribute to Elvis Presley, George Jones, Glenn Campbell and others.
James Taylor. In 1989 James Taylor bought three Olsons: An SJ, an SJ cutaway, and a Dreadnaught. James prominently displays one of his Olsons both on the cover of a 1992 issue of. , and in the artwork of his album, , the first to feature his Olsons. JT's 1992 Acoustic Guitar Magazine cover story by Jeffrey Pepper Rodgers describes his first three Olsons: James Taylor plays three guitars by James Olson. Two have an SJ body shape, one with a cutaway (because Taylor likes the sound, not because he plays up high on the neck), one without.
Category: Who Plays What. Last Updated on Friday, 01 February 2013 21:29. Published on Saturday, 07 February 2009 21:50. James Taylor is a Grammy Award winning American singer-songwriter and guitarist. Many are curious about what guitars James Taylor plays. Taylor has most often been known to play acoustics, mainly his Olson guitars, but there also are surprise electrics he has used too. 
In 2002, during his 25th year as a luthier, Jim collaborated with James Taylor on the specification of a limited edition series of. James Taylor Signature Model Olson Guitars. Each JT Signature Model guitar bears a label personally signed by both James Taylor and Jim Olson, visible through the soundhole. Inside, the neck head block is laser-engraved with the James Taylor Signature Model designation, in addition to the serial number and year of construction. 
Today he uses guitars custom made for him by Minnesota luthier James A. Olson, which Taylor has described in interviews as having Gibson-style necks. What unites all of Taylor’s acoustic guitar choices over the decades is highly responsive soundboards to accommodate the wide dynamic range of his light-touch picking. At least it was until this Tuesday, when James Taylor’s Other Covers became available. The song opens Taylor’s new album, the sequel to last year’s successful Covers, which paid tribute to Elvis Presley, George Jones, Glenn Campbell and others.
Taylor is the sole star from the classic rock era whose career has continued to grow while exclusively employing the acoustic guitar. Early on Taylor played a Gibson J-50, and through the decades he’s played a wide variety of instruments. At least it was until this Tuesday, when James Taylor’s Other Covers became available. The song opens Taylor’s new album, the sequel to last year’s successful Covers, which paid tribute to Elvis Presley, George Jones, Glenn Campbell and others.
If you're a James Taylor fan, you'll probably recognise this guitar as the model James is seen with these days. It's a smallbodied jumbo made by another James: one Jim Olson, from Circle Pines, Minnesota. I asked Jim how the JT connection came about... The SJ has a cedar top and rosewood back and sides. Build Quality: 5 (of 5) Features: 5 Sound: 5 Value For Money: 4+ Guitarist Says: Exclusive and superb sounding, the Olson does more than just play James Taylor tunes.
Home What kind of guitar does James Taylor play. While James Taylor played Gibson guitars earlier in his career, he currently plays a custom guitar built for him by James Olson of Minnesota. The relationship goes back to 1989, when Olson gave Tay... Read More ». http://www.answerbag.com/q_view/2013133. 
Review: Jim Olson SJ James Taylor. The very model played by James Taylor finds its way into the grasp of our own Sweet Baby. The SJ has a cedar top and rosewood back and sides. Build Quality: 5 (of 5) Features: 5 Sound: 5 Value For Money: 4+ Guitarist Says: Exclusive and superb sounding, the Olson does more than just play James Taylor tunes.