1 1. Solubility There is no hydrogen bonding between two carbonyl groups. 2  6. 1. Solubility Aldehydes and ketones can hydrogen bond with water.  3  Aldehydes and ketones with five or fewer carbon atoms are fairly soluble in water. 1 6. 1. Solubility Aldehydes and ketones can hydrogen bond with water.  2  Aldehydes and ketones with five or fewer carbon atoms are fairly soluble in water.  3  Large aldehydes and ketones dissolve only in nonpolar solvents.
This is called hydrogen bonding.. Propanol (whichever one it is) is an alcohol and and is polar and exhibits hydrogen bonding. Water is polar and exhibits hydrogen bonding. The polar natures of the alcohol and water allow the alcohol to be completely miscible with water. Propane (I assume, since there is no such animal as pronane) is an alkane, is nonpolar and has no hydrogen bonding with which to bond to water molecules. That is what gives rise to the general expression that Like dissolves like; Polar solutes dissolve in polar solvents, while nonpolar solutes dissolve in nonpolar solvents. Therefore the nonpolar propane is not soluble in water, but the polar propanol is.
Propionaldehyde or propanal is the organic compound with the formula CH 3 CH 2 CHO. It is a saturated 3-carbon aldehyde and is a structural isomer of acetone. It is a colourless liquid with a slightly irritating, fruity odour. 
Both are polar molecules because of their OH functional groups, so both can hydrogen bond with water with that OH group. Given this, the nonpolar portion of propanol is much s … maller than the nonpolar portion of hexanol in relation to their polar parts (propanol has just 3 carbons to hexanol's 6 carbons). 
Three groups of compounds, I, II & III, are designated below. Structural formulas for these compounds will be displayed by clicking the appropriate button. In each group the compounds have roughly the same molecular weight. Some of the compounds in each group are completely miscible with (soluble in) water. Other compounds in each group are immiscible with (insoluble in) water. Using your knowledge of polar functional groups and hydrogen bonding of functional groups, try to assign a majority of the compounds to the appropriate category. Some compounds in each group are only partially soluble in water (4 to 15%). You will be given the number of these compounds, and asked to identify them. The questions posed below require you to enter appropriate letters in the answer box for each question.
Solubility in water The small aldehydes and ketones are freely soluble in water but solubility falls with chain length. For example, methanal, ethanal and propanone-the common small aldehydes and ketones-are miscible with water in all proportions.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Propanone and propanal are soluble in water because they have polar functional groups. In propanone, the ketone functional group is polar. Water is also polar, and therefore will dissolve propanone. In propanal, the aldehyde functional group is polar. 
Physical Properties Aldehydes and ketones are polar because they contain a carbonyl group (oxygen is very electronegative compared to carbon). Aldehydes and ketones can form hydrogen bonds with water, so small aldehydes and ketones are water-soluble. In an aldehyde, the carbonyl group is on the end of the molecule. In a ketone, the carbonyl group is somewhere in the middle of the molecule. Example structures of aldehydes and ketones are given below. Carboxylic acids contain the carboxyl functional group, shown below.
Benzaldehyde and cyclohexanone are both not very soluble in water because of their relatively large carbon chains compared to the carbonyl group. Cyclohexanone is slightly more soluble though, probably because it has one less carbon atom in the carbon chain so slightly weaker van der waals forces. Yes, polarity does play a role but for these examples Whether or not something is soluble is down to how much the molecule would prefer to interact with water compared to itself. Keep in mind that the larger a molecule the stronger the van der waals forces between itself and other molecules.
Propanal=Yes.. up to 20g/100ml http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Propanal Cyclohexanone=Slightly soluble: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclohexanone Benzaldehyde=Yes but not much.. 0.6g/100ml http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benzaldehyde Long Live Wikipedia. Yes, polarity does play a role but for these examples Whether or not something is soluble is down to how much the molecule would prefer to interact with water compared to itself. Keep in mind that the larger a molecule the stronger the van der waals forces between itself and other molecules.