In classical conditioning, a formerly neutral stimulus that, after association with an unconditioned stimulus (US), comes to produce a conditioned response. Once some neutral stimulus (for example, a beep that the dog would not naturally or normally cause the dog to salivate) has been paired with the bone for some time, the dog will salivate (conditioned response or CR) when the beep occurs.
Usually, the conditioned stimulus (CS) is a neutral stimulus (e.g., the sound of a tuning fork), the unconditioned stimulus (US) is biologically potent (e.g., the taste of food) and the unconditioned response (UR) to the unconditioned stimulus is an unlearned reflex response (e.g., salivation). First a neutral stimulus (CS1) comes to signal a US through forward conditioning. Then a second neutral stimulus (CS2) is paired with the first (CS1) and comes to yield its own conditioned response. For example: a bell might be paired with food until the bell elicits salivation.
unconditioned stimulus. n. A stimulus that elicits an unconditioned response; for example, food is an unconditioned stimulus for a hungry animal, and salivation is the unconditioned response. a stimulus that elicits an unconditioned response; for example, food is an unconditioned stimulus for salivation, which in turn is an unconditioned response in a hungry animal. See: classical conditioning
a stimulus that is just strong enough to elicit a response. unconditioned stimulus. any stimulus that is capable of eliciting an unconditioned response. See also conditioning. a stimulus that elicits an unconditioned response; for example, food is an unconditioned stimulus for salivation, which in turn is an unconditioned response in a hungry animal. See: classical
In classical conditioning, an unconditioned stimulus is something that elicits a natural and automatic reaction. Pavlov first explained unconditioned stimuli after he experimented on dogs, but there are numerous examples of human conditioning in everyday life. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. 1 You step on a nail and yelp in pain. 2  Stepping on the nail is an unconditioned stimulus that causes your yelp. 3  A baby sees her mother make a funny face and laughs. 4  Her giggle is caused by her mother's funny face, which is the unconditioned stimulus.
In classical conditioning, an unconditioned stimulus (US or UCS) is any stimulus that can evoke a response without the organism going through any previous learning; the response to the US (the unconditioned response) occurs naturally. 
unconditioned stimulus. n. 1. (Psychology) psychol any stimulus evoking an unlearnt response, esp in the context of classical conditioning, in which the conditioned stimulus is followed by the unconditioned one. 1  Facebook. 1. (Psychology) psychol any stimulus evoking an unlearnt response, esp in the context of classical conditioning, in which the conditioned stimulus is followed by the unconditioned one
Conditioned and unconditioned responses are behaviors that result from specific stimuli. An unconditioned response is behavior that occurs naturally due to a given stimulus. However, a stimulus prompts a conditioned response only when someone has come to associate that stimulus with another. For example, when a person yelps upon being bitten by an insect, the yelp is an unconditioned response.