Questia offers a FREE Trial subscription so you can try their service. Subscription cost are paid on a monthly basis. When you sign up for the free trial they take credit card information and you are informed that you will have to cancel or you will be charged for an ongoing subscription. 
My mother, of all people, is raving about Questia. Questia is not free, and my university library does not subscribe to it, but for about $99 a year you can get access to: the world’s largest online library of books, with over 65,000 full-text books, 1 million articles, and an entire reference set complete with a dictionary, encyclopedia, and thesaurus. I went for it becuase Questia gave me instant access to difficult to find Advertising journals. Going thru my university library to get them would have taken too long. Although Questia’s interface is clunky, the amount of info it contains and cheap subscription price are terrific.
Questia is probably the most famous online commercial library, and I’ve been a subscriber for quite a while. It has quite a lot of advantages over a physical library, but I’m not totally sure it’s worth the cost. 
Recurring Billing: Full access to Questia is available for purchase within the app. At the time of purchase, your iTunes account will be charged an initial amount of $19.99 for one month of access, $39.99 for three months of access, or $99.99 for one year of access. Amounts may vary depending on your local currency. Get the most out of your Questia subscription by taking your research with you, no matter where you go. Begin with powerful search capabilities atop a librarian-curated collection of over 89,000 academic books and ten million articles from over a thousand of the world’s leading publishers.
Questia is an online research library for books and journal articles focusing on the humanities and social sciences. Questia has curated titles from over 300 trusted publishers, including 77,000 full-text books and 4 million journal, magazine, and newspaper articles, as well as encyclopedia entries. 
For the Wikipedia partnership with Questia Online Library, see WP:Questia. Questia is an online commercial digital library of books and articles that has an academic orientation, with a particular emphasis on books and journal articles in the humanities and social sciences. Questia does not sell ownership to books or ebooks, but rather sells monthly or annual subscriptions that allow temporary online reading access to all 78,000+ books, and 9,000,000+ journal, magazine, and newspaper articles in their collection.
Best Answer: The yearly fee is $99.00 or monthly is approx $20.00....See the quotes and link below: My mother, of all people, is raving about Questia. Questia is not free, and my university library does not subscribe to it, but for about $99 a year you can get access to:...I signed up for a trial account. If you don’t cancel after 7 days you get billed about $20 a month – far more than if you sign up for the yearly plan.... http://savageminds.org/2006/04/09/questi... Good Luck.
Questia is an online library. It has various subscription plans. Two years ago, I opted for a yearly plan. When you subscribe to Questia, you can't just subscribe for only one year and that's that. They force you to enter a perpetual agreement that is renewed every year, and is billed by Questia withdrawing from your bank account without telling you. This perpetual subscription can only be stopped if you cancel
Site Review: Questia. Site URL: Questia.com. Content: Questia bills itself as the first online library that provides 24/7 access to the world's largest online collection of books and journal articles in the humanities and social sciences, plus magazine and newspaper articles. Design: This is a no-frills site, but that is the nature of this type of resource.