NWCR Member Facts. According to the latest statistics, the subjects in the NWCR are 80% women and 20% men. Most of the participants are aged 44 to 49 and are Caucasian; few minorities are represented. Weight loss ranges from 30 to 300 pounds, with an average of 66 pounds. The average length of time to maintain the weight loss is 5.5 years (range of one year to 66 years). Most of the subjects in the registry gained weight early in life. Almost one half were overweight by the age of 11, 25% were overweight by the age of 18, and the remainder became overweight in adulthood. A database called the National Weight Control Registry (NWCR) includes the team’s work. The information in this database represents a longitudinal, prospective study of more than 4,000 adults aged 18 or older who successfully lost at least 30 pounds and have maintained the loss for more than one year.
Success rates of long-term weight loss maintenance with lifestyle changes are low, ranging from 2 to 20%. Dietary and lifestyle changes are effective in limiting excessive weight gain in pregnancy and improve outcomes for both the mother and the child. Weight loss with these drugs is modest. Over the longer term, average weight loss on orlistat is 2.9 kg (6.4 lb), sibutramine is 4.2 kg (9.3 lb) and rimonabant is 4.7 kg (10.4 lb).
Why We Fail. The statistics are cruel; 95% of weight loss effort based on dieting alone, fail within 3-5 years. While I can’t produce statistics for maintenance management, common sense tells me that they would be fairly similar. Among the most common causes cited for failure are: 1  Reliance on only one measure.
Long-term weight loss maintenance. Wing RR(1), Phelan S. Author information: (1)Brown Medical School, The Miriam Hospital, Department of Psychiatry, Providence, RI, USA. rwing@lifespan.org. There is a general perception that almost no one succeeds in long-term maintenance of weight loss. The National Weight Control Registry provides information about the strategies used by successful weight loss maintainers to achieve and maintain long-term weight loss. National Weight Control Registry members have lost an average of 33 kg and maintained the loss for more than 5 y.
Vertical Banded Gastroplasty (VBG). According to the American Obesity Association, 80% of patients lose some weight and 30% reach normal weight with VBG procedures. The long-term weight loss success rate with VBG is 40% to 63% of excess body weight over a 3-year period and 50% to 60% after 5 years. 
One medication, orlistat (Alli; Xenixal), is current widely available and approved for long term use. Weight loss however is modest with an average of 2.9 kg (6.4 lb) at 1 to 4 years and there is little information on how these drugs affect longer-term complications of obesity. Weight loss with these drugs is modest. Over the longer term, average weight loss on orlistat is 2.9 kg (6.4 lb), sibutramine is 4.2 kg (9.3 lb) and rimonabant is 4.7 kg (10.4 lb).
However, research has shown that approximately 20% of overweight individuals are successful at long-term weight loss when defined as losing at least 10% of initial body weight and maintaining the loss for at least 1 y. The National Weight Control Registry provides information about the strategies used by successful weight loss maintainers to achieve and maintain long-term weight loss. National Weight Control Registry members have lost an average of 33 kg and maintained the loss for more than 5 y.