Plot size examples. One of the most frequently misunderstood areas of land finding is the assumption that you need at least 1 acre to build a home. Naturally, many self builders prefer to have a home with more space, a bigger garden and better a outlook. However, setting your search criteria too high may give you an unrealistic idea of the cost of your project. The average developer will place a 4 bedroomed home on 1/8th to 1/16th of an acre! Below are some guide examples of scale based on a 1800 square foot house on various sizes of plot. You can see from the indicative examples that unless you want a serious garden area 1/8th of an acre is more than adequate for a sizeable family
Lot size can also be expressed in total square feet, or by acre. Using the same lot dimensions above as an example (75 x 110) someone may say that the total area of this lot was 8,250 square feet. Finally, this lot may also be expressed as being 18.9 acres (a full acre is 43,560 square feet). 
An acre is a unit of area containing 4,840 square yards and approximately the same size as one football (soccer) pitch OR 16 tennis courts. An acre of rainforest contains up to 86 different species of tree, with the amphibians, birds, insects and mammals that depend on them. 
This can really vary, depending on where the house is located, the size of the house, the neighborhood, the state it is in, etc. The average single home in NYC would be lucky to have about 100' x 50' of space, if it even has that much. If you go into the suburbs, the average suburban house would sit on maybe about 1/4 of an acre. If you go out into more rural areas, (I'm not counting houses that are part of farms) then you can find houses that sit on several acres (like, in Columbia, Missouri, most people won't accept less than 3 acres for a house).
The national average lawn size is about one-fifth of an acre for the 85 million households with a private lawn. Estimated average lawn size varies from state to state, ranging from .06 acre in Washington, D.C., to .51 acre in Georgia, according to the Environmental Protection Agency's Office of Pesticide Programs.
I m doing a project for my school and i would think a normal size home would be 1/8 of an acre is a good size home but thanks to the people who posted on this bc it helps a lot thank you. Preston · 5 months ago. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. The size of the house has nothing to do with the size of a property-you can have a large house on a small property, or a small house on a large property. In most neighborhoods, I think the average would be approximately 1/4 acre. In a city, less than that-maybe even 1/8 of an acre
In Area.   That depends on local zoning laws and how large you want your house to be. Once acre is equal to 43560 square feet, and the average home is no more than 2500 square fe … et I'm guessing (excluding basements and stories). Technically you could build a house on .1 acres if you wanted. 14 people found this useful. Answered.
It is purely an area of 43,560 square feet. The two sides of a 1-acre rectangular lot can be any lengths as long as multiplying one by the other gives 43,560 (if they are measured in feet). For example, imagine a sidewalk 5 feet wide. If it were (43560 ÷ 5 =) 8712 feet long it would take up an acre, a long skinny acre. One acre is about 4,046.873 square meters. A square plot of ground 208.7 feet on a side will cover an acre. An American football field, 360 feet by 160 feet, is about 1.3 acres; 12 high school basketball courts are a little more than 1 acre. Here's a way for city dwellers to use a Google map of their neighborhood to get a feel for how big an acre is