1 Cephalosporin a class similar to Penicillin, used in treatment of bacteria resistant to Penicillin. 2  Macrolide-a class with bacteriostatic effect including Azithromycin, Erythromycin, Vilprafen. 3  Tetracycline a class with bacteriostatic action, used in treatment of urinogenital infections, Siberian ulcer, skin infection. All antibiotics are grouped into classes by the pharmacological properties. Different antibiotics have different chemical compound and provide different action. Antibiotics classes: 1  Penicillin-a class including Amoxicillin, Ampicillin, Augmentin. 2  Penicillin provide bactericidal action. 3  Cephalosporin a class similar to Penicillin, used in treatment of bacteria resistant to Penicilli
Vancomycin is an antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections. It is recommended intravenously as a first-line treatment for complicated skin infections, bloodstream infections, endocarditis, bone and joint infections, and meningitis caused by methicillin-resistant S. aureus. Serum vancomycin levels may be monitored in an effort to reduce side effects, although the value of such monitoring has been questioned. Peak and trough levels are usually monitored, and, for research purposes, the area under the concentration curve is also sometimes used.
vancomycin hydrochloride. A glycopeptide antibacterial drug used to treat infections with gram-positive organisms, such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). It may occasionally produce exfoliative dermatitis as a side effect. 
BRAND NAME: Vancocin HCL. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Oral vancomycin is a glycopeptide antibiotic that is used for the treatment of Clostridium difficile diarrhea and staphylococcal enterocolitis. PRESCRIBED FOR: Oral vancomycin is used for the treatment of C. difficile-associated diarrhea. It also is used for the treatment of enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant strains).
Vancomycin is a tricyclic antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections. It is used for more serious infections that are resistant to other antibiotics. Vancomycin belongs to a group of antibiotics called glycopeptides. Bacteria have an external cell wall that is reinforced by molecules called peptidoglycans. The cell wall is … vital for protection against the normal environment of the body in which the bacteria live.
Vancomycin is indicated for the treatment of serious, life-threatening infections by gram-positive bacteria unresponsive to other antibiotics. In particular, vancomycin should not be used to treat methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus because it is inferior to penicillins such as nafcillin. Serum vancomycin levels may be monitored in an effort to reduce side effects, although the value of such monitoring has been questioned. Peak and trough levels are usually monitored, and, for research purposes, the area under the concentration curve is also sometimes used.
Injection. Treats infections. Belongs to a class of drugs called antibiotics. Vancomycin is used to treat infections caused by bacteria. It belongs to the family… Read more. Brand names include: Vancocin HCl, Vancoled. In many cases, especially in infections acquired inside a hospital, usual antibiotics are ineffective and more aggressive drugs are needed. Teicoplanin and vancomycin are both effective against this bacteria, however, there is a concern that vancomycin may be more toxic, especially for the kidneys.
Vancomycin is a prescription antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections. Vancocin is the brand name of vancomycin. The drug works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. Vancomycin is commonly used to treat an intestinal illness caused by the bacteria Clostridium difficile (C. diff), which can lead to severe diarrhea. Vancomycin is also used to treat infections in other parts of the body, and infections in people with heart valve disease or artificial heart valves who are allergic to penicillin.