‘a record must be kept for at least 7 years from the date of last entry in the record, unless a patient was less than 18 years old at the time of the last entry in the record; 
1 They may be kept in a separate file. 2  Telephone calls that pertain to medical care should be documented in the medical record and kept according to the above medical record retention guidelines. 3  Appointment books may be kept for one year. A: The Doctors Company recommends the following: 1  Billing records in all states should be retained for seven years according to Internal Revenue Service standards. 2 
Mental health records. Records of people who have been treated for a mental disorder should be retrained for 20 years after the date of last contact between the patient and any healthcare professional employed by the mental health provider, or eight years after the death of the patient if sooner. This guidance covers many types of health record and specifies the length of time they should be kept for (the minimum retention period). The guidance applies regardless of how the records are held, for example: 1  paper records. 2  electronic records.
A subgroup of providers, podiatrists, are also required to maintain records on each patient, by law. These records should be kept for a minimum of seven years. Chiropractors are also subject to the recordkeeping requirement in the state of Washington. All patient records must be kept for a minimum of six years after the discharge or transfer of the patient. The state also regulates patient medication records maintained by a pharmacy. Pharmacies may maintain their records manually or electronically.
1 In all cases, medical records should be kept for at least as long as the length of time of the statute of limitations for medical malpractice claims. 2  The statute of limitations may be three or more years, depending on the state law. 1 If a particular record no longer needs to be kept for medical reasons, the physician should check state laws to see if there is a requirement that records be kept for a minimum length of time. 2  Most states will not have such a provision.
1 Billing records in all states should be retained for seven years according to Internal Revenue Service standards. 2  They may be kept in a separate file. 3  Telephone calls that pertain to medical care should be documented in the medical record and kept according to the above medical record retention guidelines. A: The Doctors Company recommends the following: 1 
Medical Board and Medical Association Policies and Recommendations. When state or federal laws are silent on medical record retention, medical boards may be able to provide policies or recommendations on how long a physician should keep records. The California Medical Association has concluded that, while a retention period of at least 10 years may be sufficient, all medical records should be retained indefinitely or, in the alternative, for 25 years.
The Department of Health (DH) has produced guidance on managing health records for NHS organisations in England. This guidance covers many types of health record and specifies the length of time they should be kept for (the minimum retention period). The guidance applies regardless of how the records are held, for example: 1  paper records. 2  electronic records.
(2) If a particular record no longer needs to be kept for medical reasons, the physician should check state laws to see if there is a requirement that records be kept for a minimum length of time. Most states will not have such a provision. If they do, it will be part of the statutory code or state licensing board. (1) Medical considerations are the primary basis for deciding how long to retain medical records. For example, operative notes and chemotherapy records should always be part of the patient’s chart.
(1) A record must be made contemporaneously with the provision of the medical treatment or other medical service or as soon as practicable afterwards. (2) This clause may be complied with by the making of further entries in a single record that relates to the patient concerned. 10 How long records are to be kept. (1) A record must be kept for at least 7 years from the date of last entry in the record, unless the patient was less than 18 years old at the date of last entry in the record.