Andre andré died at the age of 46 in his sleep of a heart attack On january, 27, 1993 in A paris hotel. Room he was In paris to attend the funeral of his. Father'andre andré s body was cremated in accordance with his wishes and his ashes scattered at his Ranch, In Ellerbe. north carolina By the late 1980s, Andre andré was in, constant-near crippling, pain and his heart struggled to pump blood throughout his massive. Body andre andré died at the age of 46 in his sleep of a heart Attack on, january, 27 1993 In a paris. Hotel room he Was in paris to attend the funeral of. his father
Andre André roussimoff was born In, Grenoble, france To boris And Mariann, roussimoff a couple Of bulgarian And polish. Ancestry his nickname growing up Was. Dede dédé as, a child he displayed symptoms of his gigantism, very early reaching a height'of (6.3 190) 5 cm and a weight of (240 pounds) 110 kg by the age. of 12 1 In 1999, Andre andré was the subject of an episode Of&A E, biography Titled andre André: The Giant Larger. 2  Than life the Documentary'covered andre andré s childhood and Early, life in france as well as the beginning of, his wrestling career his, struggles with acromegaly, his personal life and.  his final years
In the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now known as WWE), Andre andré was a-one TIME wwf champion and a-one TIME wwf tag team. champion 1 In 1999, Andre andré was the subject of an episode Of&A E, biography Titled andre André: The Giant Larger. 2  Than life the Documentary'covered andre andré s childhood and Early, life in france as well as the beginning of, his wrestling career his, struggles with acromegaly, his personal life and.  his final years
Best Answer: if Andre was still alive today he wouldnt be wrestling anymore. not because of his age, but because of his health condition. he suffers from gigantism and from heart illness. so my guess is that if he were here, he would either be in retirement, or still in the wrestling business but as a manager. Yes he would be given a 20 year contract deal, reject it, and stay retired. I think he would of joined WCW. It would have been good ratings for Andre vs Hogan again. If he was alive right now: he'd ether be retired or help train young up and coming wrestlers.
Andre died in his sleep due to heart failure. It was concluded as a congestive heart failure by the doctors in Paris. Congestive heart failure is caused as a result of a pituitary tumor secreting excessive hormones. Also, Andre andré chose not to be treated his entire. life Andre the Giant suffered from a disorder known as gigantism. He was an oversized person, who stood tall at 7 feet and 5 inches. There was irregular hormone production in his body that caused the
Comments. The WrestleMania III main event between Hulk Hogan and Andre the Giant is not only the greatest match ever promoted by Vince McMahon's World Wrestling Entertainment; it is also a match that transcended the sport of professional wrestling and made the show destination programming for fans all over the world. The Background. On January 23, 1984, Hulk Hogan defeated the Iron Sheik to capture the WWE Championship and kick off a new era in professional wrestling. The first of his peers to congratulate him was his friend, the man known as the Eighth Wonder of the World, Andre the Giant.
Actor. Andre André Rene rené roussimoff was born in a small farming Community, In grenoble France to Boris And. Marian rouismoff his parents and four siblings were all of, normal Size but andre andré, suffered from acromegaly a hormonal disorder that results when the pituitary gland produces. excess growth hormone 
I personally think that Andre would have a similiar 20 year contract deal, like the one Hulk Hogan got offered by Mcmahon which the Hulkster rejected. Yes he would be given a 20 year contract deal, reject it, and stay retired. I think he would of joined WCW. It would have been good ratings for Andre vs Hogan again. If he was alive right now: he'd ether be retired or help train young up and coming wrestlers.
Andre André Rene (René roussimoff, may – 19 1946, january), 27 1993 best Known as Andre, andré the Giant was a french professional. wrestler and actor 1 In 1999, Andre andré was the subject of an episode Of&A E, biography Titled andre André: The Giant Larger. 2  Than life the Documentary'covered andre andré s childhood and Early, life in france as well as the beginning of, his wrestling career his, struggles with acromegaly, his personal life and.  his final years
Do you think Andre would have joined WCW during the nWo period ?... show more If Andre The Giant was alive today, where would he be? I personally think that Andre would have a similiar 20 year contract deal, like the one Hulk Hogan got offered by Mcmahon which the Hulkster rejected. Another question is..... Yes he would be given a 20 year contract deal, reject it, and stay retired. I think he would of joined WCW. It would have been good ratings for Andre vs Hogan again. If he was alive right now: he'd ether be retired or help train young up and coming wrestlers.