When and How Often to Water. Water your Christmas cactus when the top inch of the soil is dry. Always take into consideration the climate and time of year. If your cactus is outdoors in a hot, dry climate, you might need to water every two to three days, especially if the plant has been in the sun. If you keep the cactus indoors where it is cool or humid, it might need water only once a week. How to Maintain Humidity. The Christmas cactus does best in a humid environment. This is particularly important for gardeners living in a dry climate or whose homes have a dry indoor climate. The easiest way to provide humidity is to place a tray of water near your plant.
Add fertilizer to assist plant growth. Plants that are actively growing should be given a blooming houseplant-type fertilizer. This is best done for a plant that is 2-3 weeks old. Follow the label directions for how much and how often to feed. 
Cacti should be watered whenever the soil has dried out, if you water them to much they will get root rot. When it comes to cacti its a good idea to water them sparingly than to much, they can thrive on small amounts of water but will die from to much water. 1 person found this useful. Answered. The important thing is to look at it and see if it begins to sag or look deflated. The soil should be about 50% sand for quick drainage. Cacti and succulants that are planted in pots should be watered sparingly about once a week and less if yellowing occurs as pots evaporate more quickly.
During the active growth season cacti need to be watered more often than during the dormant season. There is no set watering specifications for cacti, as it depends on the pot, the soil, the climate and several other factors. The best way to learn how much water your cactus needs and how often is to observe it. When watering the cactus, add water until there is only about a half inch of dry soil on the surface. Be sure that the drainage holes in the pot are not blocked so the water can run out
You should check the soil. The darker the soil the more nutrions/water it has. When the soil gets lighter it has less nutrions/water. If I had a cactus I would water it once a week or once every two weeks. So, if the plant is actively taking up water, it will need water quite often, maybe weekly. If the plant is not taking up water, it will take much longer to dry out. When you water, give the plant a good soaking, not just a little water. The world's deserts get infrequent soaking rain
Cactus' are used to desert conditions with minimal water. If you water too much, you can kill it. The important thing is to look at it and see if it begins to sag or look deflated. The soil should be about 50% sand for quick drainage. Cacti and succulants that are planted in pots should be watered sparingly about once a week and less if yellowing occurs as pots evaporate more quickly. Each variety and its size and age can change its water requirements
Water: (Outdoors) During warmer months, water once a week if soil is dry or near drying. During extremely hot weather, some cacti may need to be watered 2 - 3 times per week, depending on the dryness of the soil. During winter months, watering plants every 2 weeks should be sufficient. Let soil dry out between watering. Some succulents may have to be watered more often. Check soil for dryness by pushing your finger or a stick into the soil. If the soil feels cool or damp, there is still moisture in the soil. During winter months, water once a week or when soil is dry.
Best Answer: Water cactus when dry, NOT BONE DRY! That's a very quick way to kill a cactus. When the cactus is allowed to become bone dry, the small roots will die. Then you water the plant, it has no roots, and it rots. Make sure your cactus is receiving a lot of light and warmth. So, if the plant is actively taking up water, it will need water quite often, maybe weekly. If the plant is not taking up water, it will take much longer to dry out. When you water, give the plant a good soaking, not just a little water. The world's deserts get infrequent soaking rains
Do not water the cactus again until the soil is completely dry. The easiest way to check the soil moisture is to carefully stick a pencil or a similar object to the bottom of the soil and check for any damp soil clinging to it. During the dormant season, the plant should be watered no more than every few weeks. The best way to learn how much water your cactus needs and how often is to observe it. When watering the cactus, add water until there is only about a half inch of dry soil on the surface.