A metal roof, such as metal shingles roof could easily be double the cost for the same roof, with tear off, installation and warranty. A standing seam metal roof would probably be anywhere from $900 to $1200 for a typical roof. Here is more info on that: newenglandmetalroof.com/rese ... rices.html. 
Do you need to know the average cost to install Standing Seam Metal Roofing in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Standing Seam Metal Roof job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update. Standing Seam Metal Roofing-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors.
Learn How To Install Metal Roof in 15 Minutes by ATAS. ► More Metal Roofing here: http://www.RoofCalc.org. Metal Roof Installation is difficult and EXPENSIVE, but you can do it yourself and save $1000s (see how much Standing Seam Roof Costs: http://www.roofcalc.org/metal-roofing... ). Discover the benefits of Standing Seam Metal Roofing and ... 
Overall, stone coated steel is not a budget-friendly metal roof, as it can get very costly, when installed on a complex roof. However, it is much cheaper than a real clay tile roof, which costs about $15-20 / foot. Standing Seam – total cost to install – $7-13 per 1 sq. ft. You may notice that there is a HUGE range in total installation cost. The truth is, a standing seam roof can be rather inexpensive on a simple ranch-type house, if you use 26 Ga steel. 
Otherwise, the cost of installing standing seam metal roofing generally ranges between $100 per square and $400 per square, depending on the quality of materials used, the experience of the contractor and the area where the home is located. Average Maximum Cost: $650 per square ($6.50 per square foot). Because it's a premium alternative and may require specialized tools, many home improvement experts recommend having a professional install standing seam metal roofing.
The Costs. Average Minimum Cost: $400 per square ($4.00 per square foot). Average Maximum Cost: $650 per square ($6.50 per square foot). Because it's a premium alternative and may require specialized tools, many home improvement experts recommend having a professional install standing seam metal roofing.
Minimum cost of standing seam roof material per 100 square feet: $699. Maximum cost of standing seam roof material per 100 square feet: $884. In regards to supplies, consumers can expect to pay approximately $107 to $124 for 100 square feet of installation. For nine hours of labor, the cost to install standing seam roofing generally ranges from $496 to $608. This fluctuation partially results from seasonal wage rate variations as well as the actual job location.
The only problem is that in my area, the costs were spectacular. I paid about $13,000 to have a local company install standing seam metal roofing on each of the two houses my company built, in contrast to the $4,000 that other builders were forking over for shingles on houses of similar size. 
Standing Seam Roofing Guide. The costs of standing seam roofing can vary based upon the local costs of labor and supplies as well as the types of panels that are used. For nine hours of labor, the cost to install standing seam roofing generally ranges from $496 to $608. This fluctuation partially results from seasonal wage rate variations as well as the actual job location.
The initial cost to install may seem high, but a standing-seam metal roof is the least costly roof option over the life of the roof because it is virtually maintenance-free and can last 50 years or more. Related: Debunking 5 Metal Roof Myths. Standing Seams. 