A perforation can occur as early as two days after the onset of acute cholecystitis, or can occur after several weeks. The sequence of events that leads subsequently to perforation is thought to result from occlusion of the cystic duct (most often by a calculus) with resultant retention of intra-luminal secretions. It can also occur during laparoscopic cholecystectomies with the incidence of gallbladder perforation in this situation according to some reports estimated to occur as high as 15-30% 3.
The liver makes the body’s supply of bile. Bile is a dark green, yellow, or brown fluid that breaks down fat and helps your body digest food. Sometimes, the liver produces too much bile. Excess bile is stored in the gallbladder. A gallbladder rupture is a medical condition where the gallbladder leaks or bursts. Ruptures are commonly caused by inflammation of the gallbladder. This inflammation can be caused by gallstones, which can get stuck inside the gallbladder. In rare cases, an injury can cause a rupture. If your gallbladder ruptures, you may have sudden, sharp severe pain. 
Cholecystitis occurs when the gallbladder becomes inflamed. Gallbladder inflammation is most commonly caused by gallstones but can also occur due to blockage from a tumor or scarring of the bile duct. The greatest risk factor for cholecystitis is gallstones. Cholecystitis (Greek, - cholecyst, gallbladder, combined with the suffix-itis, inflammation) is inflammation of the gallbladder.
Introduction. Acute cholecystitis is swelling (inflammation) of the gallbladder. It is a potentially serious condition that usually needs to be treated in hospital. The main symptom of acute cholecystitis is a sudden sharp pain in the upper right side of your tummy (abdomen) that spreads towards your right shoulder. 
Gallbladder perforations are a relatively rare complication that can occur in a number of situations, but occur most common as a result of acute cholecystitis. It can also occur during laparoscopic cholecystectomies with the incidence of gallbladder perforation in this situation according to some reports estimated to occur as high as 15-30% 3.
AIM: To present our clinical experience with gallbladder perforation cases. METHODS: Records of 332 patients who received medical and/or surgical treatment with the diagnosis of acute cholecystitis in our clinic between 1997 and 2006 were reviewed retrospectively.ONCLUSION: Early diagnosis and emergency surgical treatment of gallbladder perforation are of crucial importance. Upper abdominal computerized tomography for acute cholecystitis patients may contribute to the preoperative diagnosis of gallbladder perforation.
1 Short description: Perforation gallbladder. 2  ICD-9-CM 575.4 is a billable medical code that can be used to indicate a diagnosis on a reimbursement claim, however, 575.4 should only be used for claims with a date of service on or before September 30, 2015. 
gallbladder perforation. sometimes occurs as a complication of cholecystitis and gallstones. When the gallbladder is infected, necrosis may progress to the point of destroying the wall so that the bile spills out into the abdominal cavity causing biliary peritonitis. intestinal perforation. Perforation occurs when erosion, infection, or other factors create a weak spot in the organ and internal pressure causes a rupture. It also may result from a deep penetrating wound caused by trauma.
Perforated Gall Bladder. Gall stones can result in a perforation of the gall bladder. This will be complicated by sever irritation and possible infection of the peritoneal cavity which contains the abdominal organs. Click here to watch see larger image.