2. if ANY offspring show the recessive trait, the unknown genotype is heterozygous. 3. if ALL the offspring have the dominant trait, the unknown genotype is homozygous dominant. 4. large numbers of offspring are needed for reliable results. That's the bottom-line on a test cross, that stuff in the table. But you don't want to settle for just the bottom line. 
The dominant homozygous genotype expresses the dominant phenotypes while recessive homozygous genotype expresses the recessive phenotype. Heterozygous. As the terms depicts, the heterozygous genes have different types of genes for a particular phenotype. If the inherited traits from mother and father were both recessive, indicated by lower case ‘s’, then the genotype of that phenotype would be homozygous (ss). Therefore, the homozygous genotypes could have either two dominant or two recessive traits.
Heterozygous genotypes are represented by a capital letter (representing the dominant allele) and a lowercase letter (representing the recessive allele), such as Rr or Ss. Alternatively, a heterozygote for gene R is assumed to be Rr. The capital letter is usually written first. This allele, often called the dominant allele, is normally represented by a capital letter (such as P for the dominant allele producing purple flowers in pea plants). When an organism is homozygous-dominant for a particular trait, the genotype is represented by a doubling of the symbol for that trait, such as PP. An individual that is homozygous-recessive for a particular trait carries two copies of the allele that codes for the recessive trai
Homozygous dominant is a genotype that consists of two dominant alleles for a gene. Although a homozygous dominant cat might have the same phenotype, or appearance, as a heterozygous one, the difference is that the homozygous dominant individual will 'breed true'. Example of Homozygous Dominant. In cats, the agouti allele is dominant. It causes each hair in the cat's coat to have sections that are black and sections that are another color, such as gray. Tabby cats have the agouti allele, giving their fur a multicolored appearance.
1 The frequency of the recessive allele. 2  Answer: Since we believe that the homozygous recessive for this gene (q 2) represents 4% (i.e. = 0.04), the square root (q) is 0.2 (20%). 3  The frequency of the dominant allele. 4  Answer: Since q = 0.2, and p + q = 1, then p = 0.8 (80%). 1 Answer: Since we believe that the homozygous recessive for this gene (q 2) represents 4% (i.e. = 0.04), the square root (q) is 0.2 (20%). 2  The frequency of the dominant allele. 3
To determine the probability of inheritance of a widow’s peak (or any other dominant trait), the genotypes of the parents must be considered. For example, if one parent is homozygous dominant (WW) and the other is homozygous recessive (ww), then all their offspring will be heterozygous (Ww) and possess a widow’s peak. If both parents are heterozygous (Ww), there is a 75% chance that any one of their offspring will have a widow’s peak (see figure). 
For Huntington's, people with the normal-normal genotype have the normal phenotype, while people with the normal-mutant or mutant-mutant phenotypes develop the diseased phenotype. Often, organisms will carry a dominant and a recessive allele of a gene. These organisms can be referred to as carriers of the recessive allele. For example, if a pea plant has a red flower-color allele and a white flower-color allele, then it is a carrier of the recessive white flower-color allele. While carriers have the dominant/recessive genotype for a given gene, they only show the phenotype caused by the dominant version of that gene. If someone has the phenotype caused by the disease allele of a gene, we say they are affected. People who do not have that phenotype are unaffected.
Heterozygous means that an organism has two different alleles of a gene. For example, pea plants can have red flowers and either be homozygous dominant (red-red), or heterozygous (red-white). If they have white flowers, then they are homozygous recessive (white-white). Carriers are always heterozygous. While carriers have the dominant/recessive genotype for a given gene, they only show the phenotype caused by the dominant version of that gene. If someone has the phenotype caused by the disease allele of a gene, we say they are affected. People who do not have that phenotype are unaffected.