Types of Documents. All American passports are the same, but a child's passport isn't as valid for as long as an adult's is. If you're 16 or older when you apply for a passport, the document is valid for 10 years. If you're 15 or younger, it expires every five years. You must apply for a passport in person, though you can renew your passport by mail. If you're applying for a child younger than 16, the child and both legal guardians, if applicable, must appear together to apply.
All passport applicants 16yrs and older are required by the Passport agency to apply for a new adult passport which will be valid for 10 years. Passport applicants under the age of 16yrs would apply with the consent of both parents for a child passport which will be valid for 5 years. My former spouse is not involve in my children lives, however I need passports for them. Yes. Under federal laws, both parents are required to give consent for children under the age of 16 yrs when applying for a passport. Only one parent's consent is needed for a passport applicant that is either 16 or 17 years old.
Adult passports are valid for 10 years. For kids under the age of 16, passports are valid for 5 years. Figure that's a $10-$20 per year/vacation investment for peace of mind. Compared to the total cost of your cruise vacation, a very inexpensive investment for peace of mind.
Passports for children. All Canadian children, from newborns to age 16, require their own passport to travel. Children may only be issued a passport with a maximum validity of 5 years. A child’s passport remains valid until it reaches its expiry date, even after the child turns 16
International Travel. All children must present a valid U.S. passport for international air travel. This rule applies regardless of age, including infants and newborns. If you are applying for a passport for your child for the first time, allow ample time for the passport application process. Passport Application: Minors Ages 16 and 17. Minors age 16 or 17 must appear in person at the time of application, and a parent or guardian must present some form of photo identification if the minor does not have one. This passport will be required for all international air travel with parent
Even payment procedures can be complex. The total cost of a passport for children under age 16 is $82. But if you apply at a local passport acceptance facility, you'll need to divide the payment between the U.S. State Department ($52) and the acceptance facility ($30). Passports for children under age 16 are good for five years. The bad news is that you'll have to go through pretty much the same process when it's time to renew your child's passport — apply in person, prove your relationship to your child, and so on. So hold on to all your documentation for the next go-round!
How to get a new passport for a child under age 16. All children, including infants, must have a passport for international travel by air. (Please note: passports issued to children under the age of 16 are valid for 5 years only and if your child has an expired passport, it cannot be renewed and a new passport must be secured.). 
For all overseas travel by air, children under the age of 16 must always have a U.S. passport which is valid for five years from the date of issue. Children under 16 can travel to Mexico, Canada, Bermuda, Bahamas and other Caribbean countries by boat, train, or car without a passport. Passports for minors must be applied for in person with the child and both parents present. If both parents cannot be present, a notarized parental consent form must be completed. Applications must be made at a passport agency or authorized passport acceptance facility.