The maximum score in a game is 300. This is scored by bowling 12 strikes: one in each box, and a strike with both bonus balls in the 10th box. In this way, each box will score 30 points (see above: scoring: strike). Candlepin bowling pins are specified as 15 3⁄4 inches (400 mm) high, have identical ends, and are almost 3 inches (76 mm) in diameter at the center. Numbering of a full rack of ten candlepins. Unlike in tenpin bowling, fallen or dead wood candlepins are not cleared away between balls during a player's turn.
Bowling-Scoring Basics. One game of bowling consists of 10 frames, with a minimum score of zero and a maximum of 300. Each frame consists of two chances to knock down ten pins. Instead of “points” in football or “runs” in baseball, we use “pins” in bowling. Then, in your first ball of the second frame, you throw a 7. Your score for the first frame will be 17 (10+7). The maximum score for a frame in which you get a spare is 20 (a spare followed by a strike), and the minimum is 10 (a spare followed by a gutter ball). How to Score an Open Frame. If you don't get a strike or a spare in a frame, your score is the total number of pins you knock down
In china have lots of Brunswick and AMF bowling center, the bowling sports is not popular same with before 5 years. So some bowling center closed and sold these 70% or 80% new condition bowling equipment. These Brunswick and AMF bowling equipment only use about 5 years, Even some equipment only use 2 or 3 years. 
Whether that is building that new bowling or family entertainment center, or upgrading your current operations to a newer more realistic or modern scene. We have complete modernization packages (Monitor Upgrades, Scoring, Lanes, Masking Units, Ball Returns, Soft Bowling Furniture, Glow Carpet, Glow Tile, and Pins. Lights/Sound, projection units and more) available at cost effective prices. As well as useful links to websites and photos of existing family entertainment centers. Thank you for choosing New Center Consulting!We offer management replacement systems that work with most scoring systems.
Candlepin bowling is a variation of bowling that is played primarily in the Canadian Maritime provinces (specifically Nova Scotia and New Brunswick), and the New England states of Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Vermont. Candlepin bowling pins are specified as 15 3⁄4 inches (400 mm) high, have identical ends, and are almost 3 inches (76 mm) in diameter at the center. Numbering of a full rack of ten candlepins. Unlike in tenpin bowling, fallen or dead wood candlepins are not cleared away between balls during a player's turn.
Ten-pin bowling is a sport in which a bowler rolls a bowling ball down a synthetic (polyurethane) lane and towards ten pins positioned at the end of the lane. The objective is to score points by knocking down as many pins as possible. The sport of ten-pin bowling is performed on a straight, narrow surface known as a lane. This bowling lane is 60 feet (18.29 m) from the foul line to the head pin (1-pin). About 15 feet (4.57 m) from the foul line are a set of guide arrows.
1 If the bowling alley charges by the hour, plan on spending anywhere from $17 to $29 per hour to play. 2  During this hour, you can play as many games as you wish. 3  For example, Collier Lanes located in Michigan charges $1.50 to as much as $3.50 per game. 4  They also have $7 all you can bowl specials after 9 p.m. 1 If you call the bowling alley in your area, they will be more than happy to give you a quote for the night. 2 
EVOLUTION scoring products are designed to UPGRADE your bowling center to the latest technology at a fraction of the cost of new scoring. Most legacy scoring systems suffer from the same problems: proprietary and antiquated display monitors. 
How to Score a Strike. A strike is worth 10, plus the value of your next two rolls. At minimum, your score for a frame in which you throw a strike will be 10 (10+0+0). At best, your next two shots will be strikes, and the frame will be worth 30 (10+10+10). Then, in your first ball of the second frame, you throw a 7. Your score for the first frame will be 17 (10+7). The maximum score for a frame in which you get a spare is 20 (a spare followed by a strike), and the minimum is 10 (a spare followed by a gutter ball). How to Score an Open Frame. If you don't get a strike or a spare in a frame, your score is the total number of pins you knock down