Here is where the patience comes into play. Once your lamb is on the spit, spit roast lamb can take between 4-6 hours depending on size. The lamb has to roasted at a low temperature so that the interior and exterior are cooked at the same time. Too high a temperature, and the outside will cook first and burn before the inside is done. Low and slow are the watch words for spit roast lamb. When your lamb is prepped, it is time for cooking. To spit roast lamb, you need a space about 2 feet high, larger than the typical home barbeque unit. You will need a larger rotisserie unit or a large barrel grill
1 Most of the details of how to go about roasting a whole lamb can be found on my roast lamb recipe page. 2  However, a couple important points should be mentioned here. 3  Lamb is best when still slightly pink, not well done. 4  Unlike pork, there are no safety issues with medium-rare or medium lamb. I hope this helps get you on your way to a wonderful whole lamb roast! Be sure to check out my whole roast lamb recipe for more details on how to cook your lamb. Cheers! The best place I know of to buy whole hog or lamb rotisseries and other accessories for pit roasts is SpitJack.
Bone the lamb through the side, or have your butcher do it. Spread the lamb with tapanade: 8 ounces pitted green and black olives pureed with 2 tablespoons each capers and extra virgin olive oil. Roll the lamb and tie into tight cylinders. A layer of fat on the outside helps keep the meat moist during roasting. Next, thread the lamb on the spit. To boost the heat, I’ve lit the outside grill burners so the meat both spit-roasts and indirect grills. This is in addition to the rotisserie burner. Cooking time is about 1-1/4 hours for two 4-pound boned legs. Aim for an internal temperature of 140 degrees. 
7. After 1 hour, with your hands, smear the seasoning blend over the meat, covering all areas as best you can. After smearing with the blend, brush with the butter, using the herb bundle, every 30 minutes. Cook the lamb until the internal temperature in the thickest part of the shoulder is 170°F, about 4 hours. 3. Combine all of the basting butter ingredients in a baking dish or disposable pan and place under the lamb on the spit to catch any drippings. Combine the seasoning blend ingredients. Tie together all of the herbs using kitchen twine and attach to a dowel, about 3 feet long and 1⁄2 inch in diameter.
Rotisserie Grilling. Rotisserie grilling is a style of roasting where meat is skewered on a spit-the long rod used to hold food while it’s being grilled-usually used when cooking large parts of an animal, like a pork shoulder, or the entire animal such as a lamb roast or cuban pig roast. It can be harder to tell the doneness of meat when cooking with rotisseries, so consider testing the internal temperature of your meat about 20 minutes before the estimated cooking time is up, so you can get a better idea of how much longer your turkey, chicken, pig or lamb needs to roast.
At this point remove the bar and meat, and then light the fire using just enough heat beads to cover the bottom of the fire box. The fire should be left to grow for about 1 hour and then place the meat on the bar into the spit roast and switch the Spit Roast motor on to commence cooking. Once again check the set up of the meat on the bar ensuring that the meat is as central as possible length wise on the bar and rotating evenly. 
Roasting a whole lamb or whole goat is fun! If you have read my pages on cooking a whole pig then you probably know most of the details on how to cook a whole roast lamb as well! While the flavors are distinctly different and the recipes are different, the cooking equipment and process is similar. I hope this helps get you on your way to a wonderful whole lamb roast! Be sure to check out my whole roast lamb recipe for more details on how to cook your lamb. Cheers! The best place I know of to buy whole hog or lamb rotisseries and other accessories for pit roasts is SpitJack.
Roasting a Whole Lamb with a Rotisserie. A dressed lamb weighing about 25 pounds works well for rotisserie cooking. Depending on appetites, this should be enough to serve 12 to 18 guests after cooking and carving. Make sure to order the lamb far enough ahead of time so the butcher has plenty of time to prepare the lamb. 1 Check for doneness with a meat thermometer before removing the meat from the heat source. 2  Remove the spit from the grill with heavy oven mitts and remove the spit from the meat. 3  Cover the meat with foil and allow it to rest for a few minutes or for whatever length of time is appropriate for the particular lamb cut.
My father has roasted a lamb on a spit, and he recalled his father choosing a tree branch for the spit, his mother making them wrap the branch in aluminum foil before inserting it into the lamb, and his then-young nephew John turning and turning the spit. He has a memory of, as a little boy at the beach with his parents and sister, stumbling upon strangers roasting a whole lamb on a spit over an open fire, and of being handed a piece of meat off the lamb. In the memory, of course, the meat is delicious, and the experience grew to mythic proportions