The major use of aversion therapy is currently for the treatment of addiction to alcohol and other drugs. This form of treatment has been in continuous operation since 1932. The treatment is discussed in the Principles of Addiction Medicine, Chapter 8, published by the American Society of Addiction Medicine in 2003. Aversion therapies can take many forms, for example: placing unpleasant-tasting substances on the fingernails to discourage nail-chewing; pairing the use of an emetic with the experience of alcohol; or pairing behavior with electric shocks of various intensities.
Medical Definition of AVERSION THERAPY. : therapy intended to suppress an undesirable habit or behavior (as smoking or overeating) by associating the habit or behavior with a noxious or punishing stimulus (as an electric shock). Definition of AVERSION THERAPY. : therapy intended to suppress an undesirable habit or behavior (as smoking) by associating the habit or behavior with a noxious or punishing stimulus (as electric shock). ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : therapy intended to suppress an undesirable habit or behavior (as smoking or overeating) by associating the habit or ....
Aversion therapy is a form of psychological treatment in which the patient is exposed to a stimulus while simultaneously being subjected to some form of discomfort. Aversion therapies can take many forms, for example: placing unpleasant-tasting substances on the fingernails to discourage nail-chewing; pairing the use of an emetic with the experience of alcohol; or pairing behavior with electric shocks of various intensities.
What is Aversion Therapy. Aversion therapy is a type of behaviour therapy which aims to reduce or eliminate an undesirable behaviour. This can be achieved by associating the undesirable behaviour with unpleasant stimuli (classical conditioning). Aversion therapy is based on the learning theory which states that all behaviours are learned and if we want to change an undesirable behaviour, we can change it through appropriate conditioning.
Aversion Therapy-Definition. Aversion therapy can be defined as a form of behaviour therapy or pschological treatment in which the patient or client is subjected to something aversive (causing a strong feeling of dislike, disgust or even pain) whenever they exhibit undesired behaviour. Examples of Aversion Therapy. Aversion therapy is sometimes used for the treatment of addiction to alcohol or drugs with the aim of substituing unpleasant associations for the client's characteristic pleasant associations with the alcohol or drug.
aversion therapy (aversive therapy) a form of behavior therapy that uses aversive conditioning, pairing undesirable behavior or symptoms with unpleasant stimulation in order to reduce or eliminate the behavior of symptoms. The term is sometimes used synonymously with aversive conditioning. 
Definition. Aversion therapy is a form of behavior therapy in which an aversive (causing a strong feeling of dislike or disgust) stimulus is paired with an undesirable behavior in order to reduce or eliminate that behavior. Aversion therapy is an application of the branch of learning theory called classical conditioning. Within this model of learning, an undesirable behavior, such as a deviant sexual act, is matched with an unpleasant (aversive) stimulus.
Aversion therapy, on the other hand, is used to increase the level of fear associated with carrying out unwanted behaviours, such as those occurring in substance abuse (which includes alcoholism, tobacco smoking and the use of psychoactive drugs) and sexual deviance. 
aversion therapy. noun. : therapy intended to suppress an undesirable habit or behavior (as smoking or overeating) by associating the habit or behavior with a noxious or punishing stimulus (as an electric shock). Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about aversion therapy. Definition of AVERSION THERAPY. : therapy intended to suppress an undesirable habit or behavior (as smoking) by associating the habit or behavior with a noxious or punishing stimulus (as electric shock). ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : therapy intended to suppress an undesirable habit or behavior (as smoking or overeating) by associating the habit or ....