'Triggering' the effects of a generational curse. It is possible for demons to enter a child before he accepts Jesus, then remain dormant or hidden in that child's life until some time later in his or her life when it manifests (or makes itself known). Once you've accepted Jesus, those curses are broken automatically, but often the demons that entered in before you accepted Jesus still need to be cast out. In other words, the curse is already broken, and there's no need for you to break any generational curses.
The price for generational curses has been paid! The good news is that once you accept Jesus, the transference of bondage stops from your ancestors by means of generational curses. You can no longer receive spiritual bondages in this manner from your parents once you accept Jesus! Once you've accepted Jesus, those curses are broken automatically, but often the demons that entered in before you accepted Jesus still need to be cast out. In other words, the curse is already broken, and there's no need for you to break any
But showing mercy to thousands of those who love Me and keep My commandments. (Exdosu 20:4 - 6, HBFV). What is labeled a generational curse is primarily based on the teaching of those within deliverance ministries who believe that certain people can inherit misfortune. They believe some people receive, from their ancestors, tendencies and weaknesses toward specific types or groups of sins. Those who are under a generational curse, it is argued, are prone to committing certain types of sinful behavior. Solutions to this type of penalty include having someone involved in a deliverance ministry discern the exact curse a person possesses.
You can be set free and completely released from the effects of any generational curses handed down to you! If you struggle with the same bondages as your parents, or see siblings with the same problems, then it is quite possible that you are suffering from the effects of a generational curse. For example, if your mother has been heavily involved in the occult, then she has become quite defiled (polluted or unclean), and has opened herself up to various demons to enter her. The Bible tells us that the sin of the parents can cause that same pollution to be handed down to their children:
The term generational curses comes from the law of generations, which God revealed to Moses (text below) and is interestingly present in nearly every religious system in the world, although no one has ever discovered a scientific dynamic of explanation. 
. Other generational curses such as encountered in Freemasonry, need to be renounced and broken in order to be set free from them. Once a curse is broken, the next step is to drive out the spirits that may have entered in because of that curse. For example, if your mother has been heavily involved in the occult, then she has become quite defiled (polluted or unclean), and has opened herself up to various demons to enter her. The Bible tells us that the sin of the parents can cause that same pollution to be handed down to their children:
The second is that generational curses were never said to involve demonic forces. Exodus 20:5-6 and the other verses clearly state that God punished the generations. There is no mention of a bondage or illness or even the curse of a sin passed down by the work of a demon. The threat of the generational curse is over, however. Jeremiah 31:29-31 and Ezekiel 18:1-4, 14-20 all say that under the New Covenant the son will not be punished for his father's sin. We are freed from the generational curse.
The concept of a generational curse comes from the second of God's holy Ten Commandments. 4. You shall not make for yourselves any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in the heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath. . . 5. Those who are under a generational curse, it is argued, are prone to committing certain types of sinful behavior. Solutions to this type of penalty include having someone involved in a deliverance ministry discern the exact curse a person possesses.
Incest is certainly a generational and/or a family curse! Generational curses are curses brought on by the sins of our forefathers and foremothers back to the 3rd the 4th even to the 10th generation and possibly beyond. 
Freedom!!! Many in today's Church believe in what is referred to as generational curses, wherein God has levied punishment upon His people for the sins of their forefathers. THE OLD TESTAMENT. These beliefs are based upon Old Testament scriptures such as, ...