Tisbury is a large village and civil parish approximately 13 miles (21 km) west of Salisbury in the English county of Wiltshire. With a population at the 2011 census of 2,253 it is a centre for communities around the upper River Nadder and Vale of Wardour. 
on the Island of Martha's Vineyard Massachusetts. Welcome! Located on the Island of Martha's Vineyard, off the coast of Massachusetts, West Tisbury covers 34 square miles and has a year-round population of 3,151. As a popular vacation destination that number grows to several times that in the summer. Any questions please contact the town administrator at 508-696-0102 Invitation for BidsThe Town of West Tisbury is soliciting bids for the construction of a stone wall at the West Tisbury Library located at 1042 State Road.
Town of West Tisbury on the Island of Martha's Vineyard Massachusetts Welcome! Located on the Island of Martha's Vineyard, off the coast of Massachusetts, West Tisbury covers 34 square miles and has a year-round population of 3,151. As a popular vacation destination that number grows to several times that in the summer. Any questions please contact the town administrator at 508-696-0102 Invitation for BidsThe Town of West Tisbury is soliciting bids for the construction of a stone wall at the West Tisbury Library located at 1042 State Road.
Where to Stay near Salisbury. Tisbury is often referred to as a town but it is in fact strictly a village. Town much better describes the rural centre it has become today – a hidden gem. The town is set amongst beautiful rolling chalk downland overlooking the Nadder valley. As with so many towns and villages in England the construction of the railway linking Salisbury to Yeovil in Somerset brought a measure of prosperity to the area. It was then that the village really became a rural town.
Steeped in history, Tisbury is the largest village in Wiltshire’s Nadder Valley and has been a settlement for over 2,000 years. Tisbury is an excellent base from which to explore England’s countryside, including the Cranborne Chase and West Wiltshire Downs Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. Picturesque villages such as Hindon, Dinton, Fonthill Bishop and the Donheads can be explored nearby.
Tisbury is now the home of the ferry docks for the island. The town was divided into its current boundaries in 1892. Like the rest of Martha's Vineyard, is a popular summer resort for the rich and famous. As can be seen in the history section below, the town of Tisbury was incorporated within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1671 and remains the legal name of the town to this day.
From the western shore of Tisbury to Falmouth, the town is 3-1/3 miles from the Mainland, the closest point on the Vineyard. Most of central Tisbury is low-lying and near sea level,with elevations rising up to 100 feet or so. As can be seen in the history section below, the town of Tisbury was incorporated within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1671 and remains the legal name of the town to this day.
Vineyard Haven is the main village/town center of Tisbury. The two names are used interchangeably. As can be seen in the history section below, the town of Tisbury was incorporated within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1671 and remains the legal name of the town to this day.
The town, which originally included the lands of West Tisbury, was named for Tisbury, Wiltshire, England, the hometown of Martha's Vineyard Governor Mayhew. Citizens of the island, unhappy with the leadership of Governor Mayhew, petitioned William and Mary in 1673 for a change of leadership. As can be seen in the history section below, the town of Tisbury was incorporated within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1671 and remains the legal name of the town to this day.
. . the old one features in many films. The area being between mainroads is used a lot for films and TV series but retains character of often doing things Tisbury way ! Tisbury is a large village or tiddly town (we prefer town!) 13 miles (21 km) west of Salisbury. It has a population at the 2011 census of 2,253 and works as a centre for communities around the upper River Nadder and Vale of Wardour. 