A living trust is a legal document that, just like a will, contains your instructions for what you want to happen to your assets when you die. But, unlike a will, a living trust can avoid probate at death, control all of your assets, and prevent the court from controlling your assets if you become incapacitated. 8. It will take some time -- but you can do it now, or you can pay the courts and attorneys to do it for you later. One of the benefits of a living trust is that all of your assets are brought together under one plan.
With a living trust, your assets (your home, bank accounts and stocks, for example) are put into the trust, administered for your benefit during your lifetime, and then transferred to your beneficiaries when you die. Most people name themselves as the trustee in charge of managing their trust’s assets. If your assets were not in a living trust, however, someone else would have to manage them. How this would be accomplished might depend on whether your assets were separate or community property, and whether you have a durable financial power of attorney.
For example, the trustee cannot use your trust’s assets for his or her own personal use or benefit without your explicit permission. Instead, the trustee must hold and use trust assets solely for the benefit of the trust’s beneficiaries. 1. What is a living trust?2. What can a living trust do for me?3. With a living trust, your assets (your home, bank accounts and stocks, for example) are put into the trust, administered for your benefit during your lifetime, and then transferred to your beneficiaries when you die.Most people name themselves as the trustee in charge of managing their trust’s assets.
Most living trusts also include jewelry, clothes, art, furniture, and other assets that do not have titles. Some beneficiary designations (for example, insurance policies) should also be changed to your trust so the court can't control them if a beneficiary is incapacitated or no longer living when you die. It will take some time -- but you can do it now, or you can pay the courts and attorneys to do it for you later. One of the benefits of a living trust is that all of your assets are brought together under one plan.
It doesn't change your financial affairs. A living trust lets you do whatever you want with your money-buy and sell assets, open bank accounts and make investments just like you do now. You can amend or change the trust any time, or even revoke it and pull your assets out. 
A living trust (also called an inter vivos trust) is simply a trust you create while you're alive, rather than one that is created at your death. Different kinds of living trusts can help you avoid probate, reduce estate taxes, or set up long-term property management. A trust is an arrangement under which one person, called a trustee, holds legal title to property for another person, called a beneficiary. You can be the trustee of your own living trust, keeping full control over all property held in trust.
This way, even though your assets have been put into the trust, you can remain in control of your assets during your lifetime. You can also name a successor trustee (a person or an institution) who will manage the trust’s assets if you ever become unable or unwilling to do so yourself. If your assets were not in a living trust, however, someone else would have to manage them. How this would be accomplished might depend on whether your assets were separate or community property, and whether you have a durable financial power of attorney.
2. Does not go through probate. When you set up a living trust you transfer your assets to the trust, meaning the trust, not you, owns that property. This allows you to avoid probate on the property you've placed into the trust. This doesn't mean that you no longer have control of your assets, however. Without a living trust, your estate may go through probate. The probate process can usually take six months to two years. Assets are usually frozen during this time, meaning nothing can be sold or distributed without the court and/or executor approval. 2.
A living trust, also called an inter vivos or revocable trust, is an estate planning tool increasingly used by individuals and families of all income brackets as a way to pass on property while generally avoiding costs and delays associated with probate. Without a living trust, your estate may go through probate. The probate process can usually take six months to two years. Assets are usually frozen during this time, meaning nothing can be sold or distributed without the court and/or executor approval. 2.