A marketing analyst is a person who collects and analyzes data to evaluate existing and potential product and service markets. It is the responsibility of marketing analysts to identify and monitor competitors and research market conditions or changes in the industry that may affect sales. 
Market research analysts typically need a bachelor’s degree in market research or a related field. Many have degrees in fields such as statistics, math, and computer science. Others have backgrounds in business administration, the social sciences, or communications. Most market research analysts can benefit from internships or work experience in business, marketing, or sales. Work experience in other positions that require analyzing data, writing reports, or surveying or collecting data can also be helpful in finding a market research position.
Data analysts translate numbers into plain English Every business collects data, whether it's sales figures, market research, logistics, or transportation costs. A data analyst's job is to take that data and use it to help companies make better business decisions. This depends on experience and what type of data analyst you are. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) financial analysts made a median hourly rate of $35.75, or $74,350 annually in 2010.
Market Risk Analyst Job Description. Market risk analysts provide a company or investor with information on market trends. Risk analysts must have an overall grasp of the industry in which they are conducting research in order to be able to provide a comprehensive market assessment. Market Risk Analyst Duties. Market risk analysts perform research to determine the probability of asset loss or reward from investments in their particular industry. Tasks may include: 1  Conducting statistical analyses. 2  Developing risk management systems. 3  Consulting with securities traders.
Market research analysts gather and analyze data on consumers and competitors. Market research analysts study market conditions to examine potential sales of a product or service. They help companies understand what products people want, who will buy them, and at what price. Most market research analysts can benefit from internships or work experience in business, marketing, or sales. Work experience in other positions that require analyzing data, writing reports, or surveying or collecting data can also be helpful in finding a market research position.
Market risk analysts use their experience and knowledge of an industry or market to provide advice on possible investments. A bachelor's degree program focusing on finance or mathematics provides a foundation for entry into market risk analysis careers; a master's degree may be required for advancement. Market Risk Analyst Duties. Market risk analysts perform research to determine the probability of asset loss or reward from investments in their particular industry. Tasks may include: 1  Conducting statistical analyses. 2  Developing risk management systems. 3  Consulting with securities traders.
The duties of an Internet marketing analyst are diverse, and include the collection and interpretation of data regarding consumer behavior online, the development and implementation of online advertising and promotional strategies, website analysis and search engine optimization. 
This financial analyst-operations sample job description can assist in your creating a job application that will attract job candidates who are qualified for the job. Feel free to revise this job description to meet your specific job duties and job requirements. 
Career Defined. Marketing analysis is the study and evaluation of market trends. The goal is to determine what products a company should produce and how to sell them. Business strategies and tactics are reliant upon marketing analysis, which is applicable to all industries that distribute a product or service. You'll conduct these surveys over the phone, on the Internet, through the mail, and in focus groups. A marketing analyst usually oversees a team that helps with the surveying process. Once this research has been completed, you'll evaluate the feedback and organize it into reports for company use.