DEFINITION of 'Higher Education Act of 1965 – HEA'. A law designed to strengthen the educational resources of the colleges and universities of the United States and to provide financial assistance to post-secondary students. The HEA, as it is known, increased federal money given to post-secondary institutions, developed scholarship programs, provided low-interest loans to students, and founded a National Teachers Corps. Part of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society domestic agenda, the Act was signed into law on November 8, 1965.
Title I (Title One), a provision of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act passed in 1965, is a program created by the United States Department of Education to distribute funding to schools and school districts with a high percentage of students from low-income families. The act appropriates money for educational purposes for the next five fiscal years until it is reauthorized. In addition, Title I appropriates money to the education system for prevention of dropouts and the improvement of schools. These appropriations are carried out for five fiscal years until reauthorization.
Under the president's proposed budget for fiscal year (FY) 2006, 65 percent of the U.S. Department of Education's elementary and secondary school funds would go to help schools with economically disadvantaged students (. , Title I) and to support children with disabilities (. [. ], Part B, Grants to States). Total taxpayer investment in K-12 education in the United States for the 2004-05 school year is estimated to be $536 billion. Even in this current time of the war against terror, taxpayer investment in education exceeds that for national defense.
Higher Education Act. The Higher Education Act (HEA) is the federal law that governs the administration of federal student aid programs. The HEA was originally passed in 1965 and signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson. To encourage growth and change, it must be re-approved, or reauthorized, by Congress approximately every five years.
By: Rute Pinhel, Research Analyst II. You asked for a summary of the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 and its potential impact on the state ' s higher education system. SUMMARY. The president signed the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 into law on August 14, 2008. 
The gross amount of loans is much larger—in fiscal 2008, the gross amount of loans was $110 billion. In recent years, Congress has expanded subsidies for higher education. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 cut interest rates on federally subsidized loans in half, thus encouraging more student borrowing. The first major subsidy for students in higher education was the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944—the G.I. Bill—which allowed World War II veterans to attend college at no cost. The G.I. Bill is widely admired legislation, but like all subsidy programs it led to substantial wasteful spending and abuse.
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) was passed as a part of United States President Lyndon B. Johnson 's  War on Poverty  and has been the most far-reaching federal legislation affecting education ever passed by the United States Congress. The act appropriates money for educational purposes for the next five fiscal years until it is reauthorized. In addition, Title I appropriates money to the education system for prevention of dropouts and the improvement of schools. These appropriations are carried out for five fiscal years until reauthorization.
The year 1965 was a landmark for federal expansion into both the K-12 schools and higher education. The Higher Education Act of 1965 is the basis for many of today's postsecondary education subsidies, including student loan and grant programs, college library aid, teacher training programs, and other subsidies. The first major subsidy for students in higher education was the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944—the G.I. Bill—which allowed World War II veterans to attend college at no cost. The G.I. Bill is widely admired legislation, but like all subsidy programs it led to substantial wasteful spending and abuse.
Title I mandates services both to eligible public school students and eligible private school students. This is outlined in section 1120 of Title I, Part A of the ESEA as amended by the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). The act appropriates money for educational purposes for the next five fiscal years until it is reauthorized. In addition, Title I appropriates money to the education system for prevention of dropouts and the improvement of schools. These appropriations are carried out for five fiscal years until reauthorization.
Response: The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), enacted in 1975, mandates that children and youth ages 3 21 with disabilities be provided a free and appropriate public school education. 