An adjective is a part of speech which describes, identifies, or quantifies a noun or a pronoun. So basically, the main function of an adjective is to modify a noun or a pronoun so that it will become more specific and interesting. Instead of just one word, a group of words with a subject and a verb, can also function as an adjective. When this happens, the group of words is called an adjective clause. For example: 
Seeing a examples of adjectives is a great way to learn what an adjective is. Sentence diagramming can teach you what an adjective does. Sentence diagramming is a visual way to show how the words in a sentence are related to each other. 
Search. An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase that tells us something about the noun it is modifying. The head (principal) word in an adjective phrase will be an adjective. In the examples below, the adjective phrase is shaded and the head word (i.e., the adjective) is in bold: 
Adjectives are words that describe or modify other words. They can identify or quantify another person or thing in the sentence. Adjectives are usually positioned before the noun or the pronoun that they modify. In the following examples, the highlighted words are adjectives: 1  They live in a beautiful house. 2  Lisa is wearing a sleeveless shirt today. 
Definitions. An adjective is a word or set of words that modifies (i.e., describes) a noun or pronoun. Adjectives may come before the word they modify. Examples: That is a cute puppy. She likes a high school senior. Adjectives may also follow the word they modify: Examples: That puppy looks cute. The technology is state-of-the-art. 
An adjective phrase is a group of words that describe a noun or pronoun in a sentence. The adjective phrase can be placed before, or after, the noun or pronoun in the sentence. 
The word elephant is a noun. Adjectives are added to nouns to state what kind, what colour, which one or how many. Adjectives are said to modify nouns and are necessary to make the meanings of sentences clearer or more exact. Examples: Large, grey, and friendly are all examples of adjectives. In the examples below, these adjectives are used to describe an elephant.
An adjective is the part of speech (or word class) that modifies a noun or a pronoun. Adjective: adjectival. 
Definition. An adverb is the part of speech (or word class) that's primarily used to modify a verb, adjective, or other adverb. Adverbs can also modify prepositional phrases, subordinate clauses, and complete sentences. Adjective: adverbial
The Simple English Wiktionary has a definition for: adjective. An adjective is a kind of word that modifies a noun. Nouns are words that name a place, a person, a thing, or an idea. An adjective is a word that gives more information about the noun that goes with it. As a rule, in English, the adjective comes before the noun it describes. It is also a part of speech. 