Spread. 3m. Description: This is the most beautiful and most popular of all bamboos. A clumping type, it has wonderful thin stalks (about 4cm) that are elegant and fantastically architectural.If you want to block out anything, noise, pollution, neighbours-this is the bamboo for you.. Very thin matting root system as well.It will grow to 6 mtrs in 2 years, has a very upright habit and does not drop a lot of leaf matter.Gracilis has a lovely classic bamboo look to it, graceful, pretty and uniformly erect. Loves sunshine, outdoors and is drought tolerant. Care: Full sun to part shade.
Slender Weavers – gracilis sub species. Clumping bamboo – does not run!! We planted four of these about 1m apart 18 months ago. All around 1m in height. Clumping bamboo – does not run!! This is good advise. I spent extra money on the clumping bamboo and after 7 years it's still in the same spot and only grew to around 2m x 2m which was perfect for the location.
This is why I was thinking of bamboo gracilis, but not sure how much leaves dropping I would get. I have Bambusa textilis Gracilis (slender weavers) as a screening plant. Its great, grows rapidly and not too much leaf drop. Would be no problem in a 500mm garden bed. 
Slender Weaver Bamboo. Slender Weaver Bamboo (Bambusa textilis var. Gracilis) is a tough, fast growing, upright clumping Bamboo ideal for creating dense privacy screens or adding a lush tropical feel to your garden. Slender Weavers Bamboo will grow in a range of soil types however prefers a rich well drained growing media. When planting dig a hole around twice the size of the pot and backfill with a good quality organic soil mix. To speed up root development water in with Seasol and apply liquid fertiliser every 2 or 3 weeks.
There are a few alternative options. The first is to have two bamboo in pots, one inside and one outside, that you swap over each week/fortnight. This way the bamboo will have access to the fresh air, light and watering it requires. However please note that there are only few bamboo species you could do this with. 
Bamboo Gracilis will grow in most soil types. Or plant into a well prepared bed of well drained rich organic mix. A bed 50cm wide x 40cm deep with adeqit irrigation is a standed size used to grow a gracilis privacy screen. Plant your bamboos at 1 to 1.5 meter spacings to form a gracfull erect screen. Clumping bamboo – does not run!! This is good advise. I spent extra money on the clumping bamboo and after 7 years it's still in the same spot and only grew to around 2m x 2m which was perfect for the location.
Description. Gracilis is THE bamboo for privacy and our number ONE seller. An upright, multi-stemming, compact bamboo it forms a perfect, dense privacy screen without encroaching into the garden space, so it is suitable even for high density housing areas and at 6-8m tall is suitable for screening up to 2 storeys. 
Slender Weavers. This beautiful 6-8 metre bamboo is a landscaping favourite, the best bamboo to hide your neighbours, give privacy and stay looking good. Featured in many gardening magazines-disease free, straight growing. Hide your neighbours fast or add a windbreak... can be planted in a confined area.
Graceful Bamboo-Bambusa textilis gracilis. Bamboo is an instant gratification plant and even 3- or 7-gallon size bamboos will form a solid wall of green in one growing season if planted in a rich soil that is fertilized and watered regularly. 
Genus/Species: Bambusa textilis var. 'Gracilis'. Common Name: 'Slender Weavers Bamboo', 'Gracilis'. Size: 6-8m Tall x 1-1.5m Wide x 25mm culm diameter. Descritption. Compact and upright form with multi-stemming habit, this non-invasive clumping bamboo creates excellent coverage and makes a great privacy screen. Slender Weavers Bamboo will grow in a range of soil types however prefers a rich well drained growing media. When planting dig a hole around twice the size of the pot and backfill with a good quality organic soil mix. To speed up root development water in with Seasol and apply liquid fertiliser every 2 or 3 weeks.