A comet is an icy small Solar System body that, when passing close to the Sun, heats up and begins to outgas, displaying a visible atmosphere or coma, and sometimes also a tail. These phenomena are due to the effects of solar radiation and the solar wind upon the nucleus of the comet. Diagram of a comet showing the dust trail, the dust tail (or antitail) and the ion gas tail, which is formed by the solar wind flow. Gas and snow jets on Comet Hartley 2. In the outer Solar System, comets remain frozen and inactive and are extremely difficult or impossible to detect from Earth due to their small size.
Kuiper Belt comets tend to have short orbital periods – usually around 200 years – and are therefore also known as short period comets. Some comets are thought to come from the Oort Cloud, a region almost a light year from the Sun. They are primarily made of dust and ice. Considered to be remnants of the formation of our Solar System, most comets belong to the Kuiper Belt, a region beyond the orbit of the planet Neptune. Comet PanSTARRS was visible in early 2013.
Short-period comets need roughly 200 years or less to complete one orbit, long-period comets take more than 200 years, and single-apparition comets are not bound to the sun, on orbits that take them out of the solar system, according to NASA. We can see a number of comets with the naked eye when they pass close to the sun because their comas and tails reflect sunlight or even glow because of energy they absorb from the sun. However, most comets are too small or too faint to be seen without a telescope.
Comets are small celestial bodies that orbit the Sun. They are primarily made of dust and ice. Considered to be remnants of the formation of our Solar System, most comets belong to the Kuiper Belt, a region beyond the orbit of the planet Neptune. Comet PanSTARRS was visible in early 2013. Comet PanSTARRS C/2011 L4 was visible to observers on Earth in early 2013
Comets are basically dusty snowballs which orbit the Sun. They are made of ices, such as water, carbon dioxide, ammonia and methane, mixed with dust. These materials came from the time when the Solar System was formed. Comets have an icy center (nucleus) surrounded by a large cloud of gas and dust (called the coma). The coma is created as the ice in the nucleus is warmed by the Sun and vaporizes. Comets can develop two tails as they travel closer to the Sun: a straight gas tail and a curved dust tail. The gas tail is created by the solar wind, pushing gas away from the comet's coma and pointing straight back from the Sun
A comet is a very small solar system body made mostly of ices mixed with smaller amounts of dust and rock. Most comets are no larger than a few kilometres across. The main body of the comet is called the nucleus, and it can contain water, methane, nitrogen and other ices. The mixture of ice crystals and dust blows away from the comet nucleus in the solar wind, creating a pair of tails. The dust tail is what we normally see when we view comets from Earth. A plasma tail also forms when molecules of gas are “excited” by interaction with the solar wind.
Comets have been called dirty snowballs.. They are small celestial objects, made of ice, gas, dust, and a small amount of organic material, that orbit our Sun. There are about 1000 known comets and more are discovered each year. Short period comets — such as Comet Halley — revolve around our Sun in orbits that take less than 200 years. Their orbital paths are close to the same plane of orbit as Earth and the other planets, and they orbit our Sun in the same direction as the planets.
Comets come from two places: The Kuiper Belt and the Oort Cloud. Many people think that a comet's tail is always following behind it, but actually the coma, or tail, can either be behind the comet or in front of it. Which way the tail is pointing depends on where the Sun is. 
Like asteroids, comets are suspected to be remnants of planet formation in the Solar System about 4.6 billion years ago. But while asteroids are generally comprised of rock and metal, comets are more akin to dirty snowballs. Short-period comets, which orbit the sun in 200 years or less, are usually Kuiper Belt objects, while long-period comets that take hundreds or thousands of years to orbit the sun generally come from the Oort Cloud. TAGS. Comets & Asteroids, Solar System FAQ