Xylene exists in three isomeric forms. The isomers can be distinguished by the designations ortho - (o -), meta - (m -), and para - (p -), which specify to which carbon atoms (of the benzene ring) the two methyl groups are attached.
Xylene is used as a solvent and in the printing, rubber, and leather industries. It is also used as a cleaning agent, a thinner for paint, and in paints and varnishes. It is found in small amounts in airplane fuel and gasoline.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Xylene, also called xylol, dimethyl benzene, Violet 3, and methyl toluene, is an isomer that can be found in three forms. It is traditionally used in the leather, rubber, and paint industries, particularly as a solvent, a cleaning agent, and a paint thinner.
Xylene (from Greek ξύλο, xylo, wood), xylol or dimethylbenzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon mixture consisting of a benzene ring with two methyl groups at various substituted positions. The three isomers of xylene have the molecular formula C8H10, also represented by the semi-structural formula C6H4(CH3)2. Xylene is a major petrochemical produced by catalytic reforming and also by coal carbonisation in the manufacture of coke fuel.
Xylene is used as a solvent. In this application, with a mixture of isomers, it is often referred to as xylenes or xylol. Solvent xylene often contains a small percentage of ethylbenzene.
There are many ways that xylene may be used. For example, it is sometimes used in making some polyester clothes and plastic bottles. In fact, nearly 50 percent of the xylene produced is used to produce polymers used in plastics and polyester. It is also used as a solvent in the paint and rubber industries.
Definition of XYLENE. : any of three toxic flammable oily isomeric aromatic hydrocarbons C8H10 that are di-methyl homologues of benzene and are usually obtained from petroleum or natural gas distillates; also: a mixture of xylenes and ethyl benzene used chiefly as a solvent.
Medical Definition of XYLENE. : any of three toxic flammable oily isomeric aromatic hydrocarbons C8H10 that are dimethyl homologues of benzene and are usually obtained from petroleum or natural gas distillates; also: a commercial mixture of xylenes used chiefly as a solvent.