Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Sulforaphane is a rather simple organic compound that is found in the largest concentrations in the cruciferous or mustard family of plants, including broccoli, cauliflower, and cabbage. Both natural forms of the compound or sulforaphane extract that is made into a sulforaphane supplement have been shown in laboratory testing to have a wide variety of health benefits.
Medical Definition of SULFORAPHANE. : an anticarcinogenic isothiocyanate C6H11NOS2 found in cruciferous vegetables (as broccoli and cauliflower) that is thought to function by stimulating the production of enzymes in the body that detoxify cancer-causing substances. ADVERTISEMENT.
It is produced when the enzyme myrosinase transforms glucoraphanin, a glucosinolate, into sulforaphane upon damage to the plant (such as from chewing), which allows the two compounds to mix and react. Young sprouts of broccoli and cauliflower are particularly rich in glucoraphanin. 
Sulforaphane is a phytochemical belonging to the family of isothiocyanates, which means it contains the typical NCS group. Sulforaphane occurs in plants bound to a sugar molecule: sulforaphane glucosinolate. Only after eating will the sulforaphane by released. Sulforaphane glucosinolate is found in cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage and kale. The richest source of sulforaphane are broccoli sprouts. Sulforaphane is an antioxidant and stimulators of natural detoxifying enzymes. Sulforaphane may reduce the risk of breast, bladder and prostate cancer. Epidemiological studies show that people who eat a lot of cruciferous vegetables have reduces incidences of cancer.
Sulforaphane is found in leafy green vegetables that belong to the cruciferous family. They include: 1  Broccoli. 2  Spinach. 3  Kale. 4  Cauliflower. 5  Cabbage. 6  Brussels sprouts. 7  Bok choy. 
SULFORAPHANE Overview Information. Sulforaphane is a chemical found in certain kinds of vegetables such as broccoli, cabbage, and cauliflower. Sulforaphane is used for the prevention of prostate cancer and other types of cancer. The appropriate dose of sulforaphane depends on several factors such as the user's age, health, and several other conditions. At this time there is not enough scientific information to determine an appropriate range of doses for sulforaphane.
Sulforaphane belongs to a group of phytochemicals, or disease-fighting compounds in plant foods, known as the isothiocyanates. Along with related phytochemicals, it helps to prevent against the development of cancer. 
J Biol Chem. 2005. We have shown previously that sulforaphane, a constituent of many edible cruciferous vegetables including broccoli, suppresses growth of prostate cancer cells in culture as well as in vivo by causing apoptosis, but the sequence of events leading to cell death is poorly defined. Retinal health Sulforaphane induces thioredoxin through the antioxidant-responsive element and attenuates retinal light damage in mice. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2005. Thioredoxin is a multifunctional endogenous redox regulator that protects cells against various types of cellular or tissue stresses.
Sulforaphane is a small molecule that is easily taken up by human cells. Once inside the cells, it acts as a ‘signalling molecule’, sending messages to other parts of the cell. One of Sulforaphane’s most important functions is that it supports activation of a ‘switch’ within the cell. In fact, there is no Sulforaphane found in Broccoli or any other Cruciferous Vegetable. The plant cell contains 2 different types of sacs that contain the 2 substances that produce Sulforaphane only when mixed together.
Sulforaphane is a compound that has been found to have several health benefits, including powerful anti-cancer properties. All of the foods that contain sulforaphane are cruciferous vegetables, members of the Brassicaceae family, which means that they are goitrogenic. Broccoli sprouts, the immature seedlings of the broccoli plant, contain more sulforaphane than any other vegetables, inluding full grown broccoli. Research has found that they contain anywhere from 10 to 100 times more of the compound tha