1 The rehearsal dinner should not upstage the wedding to follow. 2  If you are at a restaurant, it is likely that the restaurant is open to the general public. 3  Ask your venue contact how your event will be separated from the rest of the restaurant (if semi-private) and how your guests will be handled. 
How to Invite. If your rehearsal dinner will be a fancy affair with lots of out-of-town guests in a hotel banquet room, a country club, or someplace similarly dressed up, you should send formal invitations. You'll also want people to RSVP so you have a head count for the caterer. Since the rehearsal dinner is more informal than the wedding reception, the food and atmosphere should reflect or complement that. Ultimately, the setting of the rehearsal dinner depends on the budget, how many guests there will be, and what kind of party the host envisions.
Report Abuse. For the actual rehearsal I would say about 30 minutes depending on what you are incorporating into your ceremony. After the actual rehearsal the dinner can last as long as you want, and no you are not obligated to get everyone drunk. Just as long as you have enough beverages for everyone. Best Answer: rehearsal depends on how long it takes to figure out whats going on during the wedding...the dinner depends on how fast you eat...as for alcohol just do a cash bar type mentality...you want it you buy it. Source(s): mender_bender2001 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up
Report Abuse. Well typically, the day before the wedding you have the rehearsal which lasts an hour. Immediately following you have the rehearsal dinner, which last anywhere from 2-4 hours. On the wedding day, the ceremony itself can last anywhere from 2o minutes to an hour and a half, depending on the religion. And then I would say a receptions is roughly 4-5 hours long
I think it depends on the level of the choir. It's possible to have a very productive rehearsal in less than an hour. Most of the time, we just repeat stuff over and over, when we should move on. I was in a rehearsal that was 20 minutes, and we practiced 5 songs for an event that was to take place later that day! 1 1/2 - 2 HOURS-depending on what we are learning. We usually try to touch on every song we plan to sing on the following Sunday. We usually allow 45 minutes to 1 hour for a new song. The new song may not be introduced for 2 weeks, though.
Typically the dinner begins approximately 30 minutes to an hour after the rehearsal at the church has concluded and lasts for approximately 2.5 to 3 hours. It’s important that it concludes early enough for the bridal party and families to get a good night’s sleep since the next day is a busy one! Even though this is a relaxed atmosphere, it is nice to have some sort of agenda so that a welcome from the host/hostess can be given, as well as toasts by those who will not be toasting on the wedding day (those other than the bestman and maid/matron of honor).
FAQ. Along with determining your site, engaged couples should determine the guest list. There are two options: either invite everyone should you have alot of out of town guests or just the bridal party and immediate family on both sides. Aunts, uncles and cousins are not automatically included. Even though this is a relaxed atmosphere, it is nice to have some sort of agenda so that a welcome from the host/hostess can be given, as well as toasts by those who will not be toasting on the wedding day (those other than the bestman and maid/matron of honor).
By Dave Hallstrom. A question that we often receive is, “How long does a rehearsal take?” The short answer is an hour. An hour is what we schedule for the rehearsal, but in reality the actual rehearsal takes 20 to 30 minutes from start to finish at the most. 