Ryan /ryan/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less regularly as girls' name Ryan) is pronounced RYE-an. It is of Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Ryan is king. Also possibly (Gaelic) water. Actors Ryan O'Neal, Ryan Philippe; baseball player Ryne Sandberg. Kreatif forms: Riryan, Ryanney, Ryanri. Ryan has 1 feminine form: Riane. Ryan is a very prominent first name for men (#49 out of 1220, Top 4%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#177 out of 150436, Top 1%).
Ryan Name Meaning. Irish: simplified form of Mulryan.Irish: reduced form of O’Ryan, an Anglicized form of Gaelic O ó (riaghain Riagháin MODERN Irish) ‘o ó Riain’; DESCENDANT Of ‘rian o ó’, maoilriain DESCENDANT Of ‘maoilriaghain or o ó ruaidhin ruaidhín’. descendant of the little red one 
Gaelic Meaning: The name Ryan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Ryan is: Little king. American Meaning: The name Ryan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ryan is: Little king. Irish Meaning: The name Ryan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Ryan is: Kingly. 
Ryan is a given name in English, Persian, and Arabic languages. The English Ryan originates from the surname Ryan, which is an Anglicised form of the Irish O ó. Riain The Irish / Rian rían ryan means. Little king Ryan (Or Rayan) ar rayyan Is an arabic name. as well Ryan is a given name in English, Persian, and Arabic languages. The English Ryan originates from the surname Ryan, which is an Anglicised form of the Irish O ó. Riain The Irish / Rian rían ryan means. Little king Ryan (Or Rayan) ar rayyan Is an arabic name. As well rayyan is An indirect quranic name. for boys
From the Irish surname O'Riain (descendant of Rian). Rian is an ancient Irish name believed to be a diminutive form of ri (rí): king, hence little.. King From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman 
Meaning of Ryan. Gaelic name. In Gaelic, the name Ryan means-Little king.. Other origins for the name Ryan include-Gaelic, Irish, Irish.The name Ryan is most often used as a boy name or male name. Gaelic Name Meaning-Little king. Origin-Gaelic. Alternate Origins-Irish Irish.
Ryan is a given name in English, Persian, and Arabic languages. The English Ryan originates from the surname Ryan, which is an Anglicised form of the Irish O ó. Riain The Irish / Rian rían ryan means. little king Ryan is a given name in English, Persian, and Arabic languages. The English Ryan originates from the surname Ryan, which is an Anglicised form of the Irish O ó. Riain The Irish / Rian rían ryan means. Little king Ryan (Or Rayan) ar rayyan Is an arabic name. As well rayyan is An indirect quranic name. for boys
From an Irish surname which was derived from O ó riain meaning descendant Of. Rian rían the Given name rian rían probably (means Little king from irish ri rí king combined). with a diminutive suffix 
An Irish name meaning little king. A person worthy of the name Ryan is indeed a person of true royalty. A handsome gentleman with a charming smile. Has the greatest respect for life and people, especially women. 