Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is a multifunctional nucleotide, and plays an important role in cell biology as a coenzyme that is the molecular unit of currency of intracellular energy transfer.[1] In this role, ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. The structure of this molecule consists of a purine base (adenine) attached to the 1' carbon atom of a pentose sugar (ribose). Three phosphate groups are attached at the 5' carbon atom of the pentose sugar. It is the addition and removal of these phosphate groups that inter-convert ATP, ADP and AMP.
ATP From Protein. When you eat protein, you can use the energy in the protein to make ATP. Proteins consist of long chains of chemical building blocks called amino acids, explain Drs. Reginald Garrett and Charles Grisham in their book Biochemistry..
ATP synthase (EC 3.6.3.14) is an important enzyme that provides energy for the cell to use through the synthesis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the most commonly used energy currency of cells from most organisms. It is formed from adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (P i), and needs energy. The overall reaction sequence is: ADP + P i → ATP, where ADP and P i are joined together by ATP synthase.
Best Answer: Nope. ATP is a nucleotide with some phosphate groups (that third P bond is the high energy bond where the energy contained in ATP is stored). Proteins are not made up of nucleotides, they're made of amino acids. Nucleotides are also the major component of DNA. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adenosine_t... 
ATP synthase (also known as FoF1-ATP synthase) is a multisubunit integral membrane protein that produce ATP from ADP and Pi using the energy of transmembrane electrochemical p … otential difference of proton (or sodium ion in some cases). It is not energy itself, but rather temporarily stores energy in its' bonds. When the third phosphate bond is broken, energy is released. This creates ADP which has one less phosphate attached to the group. ATP is the acronym for adenosine triphosphate.
ATP is a chemical energy molecule that your cells use to provide for their fuel needs. The relationship between ATP and protein is a complicated one. You can make ATP by burning protein that you eat, you need functional proteins to help in the process of building ATP, and proteins can break down ATP. When you eat protein, you can use the energy in the protein to make ATP. Proteins consist of long chains of chemical building blocks called amino acids, explain Drs. Reginald Garrett and Charles Grisham in their book Biochemistry..
The inner membrane is also loaded with proteins involved in electron transport and ATP synthesis. This membrane surrounds the mitochondrial matrix, where the citric acid cycle produces the electrons that travel from one protein complex to the next in the inner membrane. 
This protein is part of the P-type ATPase family, a group of proteins that transport metals into and out of cells by using energy stored in the molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Copper-transporting ATPase 2 is found primarily in the liver, with smaller amounts in the kidneys and brain. 
The process of making ATP --- regardless of whether the energy to make it comes from carbohydrate, protein or fat --- requires protein. This is because, like many of the chemical reactions in the body, ATP synthesis uses enzymes. When you eat protein, you can use the energy in the protein to make ATP. Proteins consist of long chains of chemical building blocks called amino acids, explain Drs. Reginald Garrett and Charles Grisham in their book Biochemistry..
This type of enzyme, which converts chemical energy into mechanical energy, is called a mechanochemical enzyme or, colloquially, a motor protein. Myosin is the motor, actin filaments are the tracks along which myosin moves, and ATP is the fuel that powers movement. 