Podcast: Play in new window | Download. Some people wonder if unschooling is legal. Every country is different, and in the US every state is different. But the answer is pretty much Yes. My favorite quote of the day: “Learning isn’t illegal.”. – Sandra (Touche.). Thank you Ann Zeise, Carrie Hetu and Sandra Dodd for contributions to this podcast. Years back when I was keeping up with what was going on with a homeschooling family in Japan—the mom was translating some unschoolers’ writings into Japanese—there was a mental disorder known as “school refusal.” Kids who balked at going to school, or hid out, were put into mental hospitals.
This parenting style might raise some eyebrows, but in Massachusetts, it's perfectly legal. Unschooling parents in that state are required to report to local school authorities once a year. The Massachusetts Department of Education did not respond to calls and e-mails from ABC News seeking comment. Homeschooling rules vary from state to state.
However, unschooling is not unparenting; freedom to learn is not license to do whatever you want. People find different ways and means to get comfortable with John Holt's ideas about children and learning and no one style of unschooling or parenting defines unschooling, as the following selection of books demonstrates. The simple answer I learned from John is unschooling is NOT school. John Holt was tuned into popular culture and during the 1970s there was a popular television commercial for a soft drink called 7-Up.
Each state also has it's own laws for compulsory attendance: http://www.infoplease.com/us/states/comp... As to unschooling, it's just another form of homeschooling, and therefore legal. HOW a parent chooses to meet the law requiring they provide their child with an education is up to the parent. For California's laws see: http://a2zhomeschooling.com/regional/us/... There's more of a discussion about unschooling specifically in California @ http://familyrun.ning.com/group/californ... . From what I gather the way to homeschool in California is to register yourself as a private school -- you can then choose to run your private school (homeschool) along unschooling lines.
By Leaping, on June 19th, 2008. If homeschooling is legal, which it is in all 50 states and many countries, then unschooling is legal. Unschooling is simply a METHOD of homeschooling; it is not a separate thing from homeschooling. You can follow the Charlotte Mason method of homeschooling or use the Unit Studies method or you can unschool or any other approach of homeschooling that you might be comfortable with. In some states (and countries) unschooling can be more difficult to practice due to regulations and restrictions on homeschoolers. You might have to jump through a few more hoops (i.e., standardized testing, yearly reports, etc.) than you would if you lived elsewhere or be a bit more creative in your record-keeping.
Unschooling is a form of homeschooling. Homeschooling is legal in all 50 states. Different states – and even different towns within the same state – may have different requirements. Your best bet is to search the website of the public schools in your own town. You can also try Homeschool Legal Defense Association at hslda.org.
HOME. WELCOME TO TEXAS UNSCHOOLERS. We’re very happy you’ve found our website and hope that it is a source of inspiration and encouragement to you as you follow the path of unschooling. This website has evolved because of a vision that I had for the state of Texas a couple of years ago
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, unschooling is perfecly legal in California. There's more of a discussion about unschooling specifically in California @ http://familyrun.ning.com/group/californ... . From what I gather the way to homeschool in California is to register yourself as a private school -- you can then choose to run your private school (homeschool) along unschooling lines.