Celery seed from the spice rack will not grow the familiar green stalks of vegetable celery. Though the two edibles share the same name, the celery seed in the herb and spice rack in your local market will not grow the familiar bright green stalks in the fresh produce section. Celery seed is harvested from a very closely related plant known as wild celery, or smallage
Taste and Aroma: Authentic flavor of Celery. Uses: Potato salads, pickling, stews, vegetable salads and coleslaw. Substitutes: Celery Powder, Celery Salt, Celery Flakes, Poppy Seeds or Wonderful World Seasoning. Fun Fact: Volatile oil from Celery Seed is used in both the pharmaceutical and perfume industries. 
How to Use Celery Seed. Celery seed is a spice that isn't always featured in the herb and spice rack but if you have some, it can make an excellent addition to a number of dishes. Steps. 1. Be aware that celery seed has a very strong taste. Treat it like highly concentrated celery. Ad. 2. Use celery seeds in vegetable dishes and sauces. Give these dishes a touch of celery flavor with the addition of a few seeds. 3. Use celery seed in pickles, mustard, and chutneys.
The Spice House offers it in both whole seed form or ground fresh weekly. The ground seed imparts a stronger flavor and is suited for those people who can not digest seeds, or do not like the texture of the seeds. Celery seed is a small, somewhat bitter, seed often found as an ingredient in cold vegetable salads, sauerkraut and pickling.
Rate it. 0 0. Celery Seed Celery Seed Celery seed shall be the dried fruit of Apium graveolens L. The light brown to brown seeds have a characteristic aroma and warm, bitter taste. Celery seed is the dried fruit (seed) of a wild variety of celery called smallage which grows to a height of about 18 inches. It is not derived from the vegetable of the same name. The seeds seldom exceed 1 mm in diameter. 0 out of 5 stars, based on 0 user reviews.
1 Ground celery seed is the main component of celery salt. 2  You can find celery seeds in most stores that stock herbs and spices. 3  They can also be ordered online; just make sure you're ordering food-grade celery seeds and not ones intended for growing celery. Steps. 1. Be aware that celery seed has a very strong taste. Treat it like highly concentrated celery. Ad. 2. Use celery seeds in vegetable dishes and sauces. Give these dishes a touch of celery flavor with the addition of a few seeds. 3. Use celery seed in pickles, mustard, and chutneys.
Celery Seed. %Match. Celery seed shall be the dried fruit of Apium graveolens L. The light brown to brown seeds have a characteristic aroma and warm, bitter taste. Celery seed is the dried fruit (seed) of a wild variety of celery called smallage which grows to a height of about 18 inches. It is not derived from the vegetable of the same name. The seeds seldom exceed 1 mm in diameter. 0 out of 5 stars, based on 0 user reviews.
Details. Spice up your pantry with Regal celery seed! Celery seed comes from the dried fruit of the Apium graveolens herb that is related, but not identical to, the celery vegetable. With its warm and slightly bitter taste, it has been described as being similar to fennel or anise. Celery seed is very small in size with a light brown color. It is popularly used in making pickles, coleslaw, potato salad, or macaroni salad. The unique taste of celery seed pairs well with eggs, tomatoes, potatoes, or in stuffing. It can even be used to make fruit salad dressing, meat loaf dishes, or soups.
Spice Description. Celery seeds are tiny globular seeds that are sold whole, slightly crushed, or ground. The leaves, which are light green, are used whole (fresh or dried), flaked, or ground. The stalks or stems and root are sold fresh. Properties: The dried seed is dark brown with light ridges. North Indians and Bengalis add celery seed to curries, pickles, and chutneys. Celery pairs well with chicken, turmeric, sage, cumin, soy sauce, ginger, and vinegar. Celery stalks and roots are not spices but are discussed because they add flavor to many foods and beverages.
Celery seed is a popular spice in European and North American foods and beverages. The seeds are used in fresh tomato juices, chicken soups, pickles, salad dressings, cole slaw, breads, and meats. Scandinavians and Eastern Europeans add celery seeds and leaves to sauces, soups, stews, and salads. North Indians and Bengalis add celery seed to curries, pickles, and chutneys. Celery pairs well with chicken, turmeric, sage, cumin, soy sauce, ginger, and vinegar. Celery stalks and roots are not spices but are discussed because they add flavor to many