If you sign up for Parts A and B, your application will not sign you up for Medicare Part C (Medicare Advantage) or Medicare Part D, the prescription drug benefit. Those parts of Medicare require a separate Medicare sign up. The processes to sign up for Medicare Part A and Part B are the easiest. If you are a U.S. citizen or legal resident and you have had at least 40 quarters of income where you paid Medicare taxes, you do not need to manually sign up for Medicare Part A or sign up for Medicare Part B as your enrollment will be automatic.
You can sign up for Medicare beginning three months before you turn 65, and coverage can start as soon as the first day of your birthday month. The initial enrollment period lasts until three months after your 65th birthday. Monthly Part B premiums increase by 10 percent for each 12-month period you were eligible for Medicare but didn't sign up for it. If you or your spouse is employed and covered by a group health plan at work, you must sign up within eight months of leaving the job or the coverage ending to avoid the higher premiums.
For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. To sign up for Part B, complete an Application for Enrollment in Part B (CMS-40B) . Get this form and instructions in Spanish. If you don't have Medicare or you want to sign up for Part A (some people have to pay a premium for Part A), contact Social Security.
For details, click here .) If you do not sign up for Part B right away, then you will be subject to a penalty. Your Medicare Part B premium may go up 10 percent for each 12-month period that you could have had Medicare Part B, but did not take it. What You Need to Know about Signing up for Medicare. The first of the 78 million baby boomers turned 65 on January 1, 2011, and some 10,000 boomers a day will reportedly be turning 65 between now and 2030.
Medicare has a seven-month period in which you can sign up for Part B, which covers doctor bills and other outpatient medical costs. This period begins three months before the month of your 65th birthday, includes the month you turn 65 and ends three months after your birthday month. When you turn 65, you'll probably need to sign up for Medicare. But when it comes to Social Security, you don't have to do anything now. You can apply for retirement benefits anytime between now and age 70, with your monthly check rising the longer you wait.
If you already have Medicare Part A and wish to sign up for Medicare Part B, please complete form CMS 40-B, Application for Enrollment in Medicare-Part B (Medical Insurance) , and take or mail it to your local Social Security office. Anyone who has Medicare can get Medicare prescription drug coverage. Your monthly premium will go up 10 percent for each 12-month period you were eligible for Part B, but didn’t sign up for it, unless you qualify for a special enrollment period. Apply for Medicare only. You can apply for Medicare even if you’re not ready to retire.
If You're Turning 65. Sign-up for Medicare benefits no later than two months before you turn 65 to avoid a break in coverage. You are eligible to enroll in Medicare Part B at age 65 even if you are not eligible for Medicare Part A. 1  Enroll in Part B when first eligible to avoid a premium surcharge for late enrollment
Example. For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Note. To sign up for Part B, complete an Application for Enrollment in Part B (CMS-40B) . Get this form and instructions in Spanish. If you don't have Medicare or you want to sign up for Part A (some people have to pay a premium for Part A), contact Social Security.
You can sign up for free Part A (if you’re eligible) any time during or after your Initial Enrollment Period starts. Your coverage start date will depend on when you sign up. If you have to buy Part A and/or Part B, you can only sign up during a valid enrollment period. In most cases, if you don’t sign up for Medicare Part B when you’re first eligible, you’ll have to pay a late enrollment penalty for as long as you have Part B and could have a gap in your health coverage. To sign up for Part B, complete an Application for Enrollment in Part B (CMS-40B) . Get this form and instructions in Spanish. If you don't have Medicare or you want to sign up for Part A (some people have to pay a premium for Part A), contact Social Security.