The Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) is the world's first financial incentive scheme designed to encourage the use of heat from renewable energy sources. In principle it is a subsidy for the amount of heat produced (in kWh). The RHI scheme is administered by Ofgem and applicants will have to submit an application and provide details of the system classification and metering arrangements.
“A biomass system could produce 7-10 times as much energy, but the difference is you have to buy the pellets.”The RHI pays a generous introductory rate of between 7.3p per kWh for air-source heat pumps and 19.2p per kWh for solar thermal panels. This is because renewable heating is not cheaply installed like plug-and-play solar photovoltaics.The government reduced the entire budget for the domestic RHI scheme from £864 million per year to between £500 million and £600 million, a discrepancy that households are unlikely to recoup in the near term.
These homes are typically heated using oil, electricity or LPG, which is on average 50%-100% more expensive than mains gas. DECC hopes the domestic RHI will support 750,000 renewable heat systems by 2020. Tariffs are paid on a quarterly basis for seven years based on the technology that is adopted. This is because renewable heating is not cheaply installed like plug-and-play solar photovoltaics.The government reduced the entire budget for the domestic RHI scheme from £864 million per year to between £500 million and £600 million, a discrepancy that households are unlikely to recoup in the near term.
“What we would like is an increase in the budget for what is a very substantial renewable technology. It’s so small compared to what they are throwing money at with fossil fuels.”Innosol released a report today highlighting that 78% of the energy used in UK homes is for heating. This is because renewable heating is not cheaply installed like plug-and-play solar photovoltaics.The government reduced the entire budget for the domestic RHI scheme from £864 million per year to between £500 million and £600 million, a discrepancy that households are unlikely to recoup in the near term.
Biogas Biogas is formed by the anaerobic decomposition of putrescible organic material. Biogas CHP (combined heat and power or cogeneration) is the utilisation of biogas, typically in a biogas engine, for the production of electricity and useful heat, at high efficiency. The quantity of water is linked to the temperature of the biological gas and the method of production. Above certain limits the moisture content of the biogas becomes a combustion challenge for the gas engines. Water can be removed from the gas by using: 1  Gas dehumidification (drying) units.
However, drastic reductions in support for electricity via the Feed-in Tariff commenced on 1st April, particularly affecting small scale biogas plants in sub 500kWe bands which suffered a 20% degression. 
Biogas is a gas that is formed by anaerobic microorganisms. These microbes feed off carbohydrates and fats, producing methane and carbon dioxides as metabolic waste products. This gas can be harnessed by man as a source of sustainable energy. The quantity of water is linked to the temperature of the biological gas and the method of production. Above certain limits the moisture content of the biogas becomes a combustion challenge for the gas engines. Water can be removed from the gas by using: 1  Gas dehumidification (drying) units.
It is subsidised through the RHI. The plant is owned by a joint venture between J V Farming, the Duchy of Cornwall and ABP Ltd. Feedstock includes 4,000 tonnes of potato waste, 26,000 tonnes of maize silage, 4,000 tonnes of grass silage and 7,000 tonnes of food waste. This is because renewable heating is not cheaply installed like plug-and-play solar photovoltaics.The government reduced the entire budget for the domestic RHI scheme from £864 million per year to between £500 million and £600 million, a discrepancy that households are unlikely to recoup in the near term.
At present only commercial installations will be eligible to claim the RHI. However, the government aims to introduce support for RHI domestic installations in phase two of the scheme. The following technologies are supported by the RHI. The RHI scheme is administered by Ofgem and applicants will have to submit an application and provide details of the system classification and metering arrangements.