Chiropractic and osteopathic medicine represent another nonsurgical treatment option for patients with back pain. Chiropractors and osteopathic doctors may decrease low back pain by mobilizing joints in the lumbar spine though manipulations (commonly referred to as adjustments). 
Osteopathic Physicians Vs Chiropractors – Scope of Practice: The primary differences between an Osteopathic physician and a chiropractor are their levels of training and the scope of their practice. A chiropractor is not a licensed physician and has not completed residency training in a hospital. Osteopathic training, therefore, includes, not only the study of all branches of medicine and surgery, but also up to 500 hours of additional training in manual diagnosis and treatment.
Doctors of Osteopathic Medicine. Doctors of osteopathic medicine, referred to as D.O.s, are trained in much the same way as medical doctors. Each osteopathic physician completes an undergraduate premedical degree, then a four-year doctorate at an osteopathic medical school. In the human body, the spine acts both as the body's primary architectural support and as a conduit for the nervous system. The spinal cord, a thick bundle of nerves and related tissues, carries signals from nerves throughout the body to be processed at the brain.
These professionals are different from allopathic physicians or Doctors of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) who have a degree in osteopathic medicine. The chiropractic profession is better known than osteopathy. The academic degree for chiropractors is called Doctor of Chiropractic or DC. The World Health Organization (WHO) also lists other potential paths for pursuing this fulltime: B.Sc (Chiro) a 5 year integrated bachelor program and a 2-3 Masters program (M.Sc. Chiro) following a bachelor’s degree.
Doctors of osteopathy (D.O.'s) are physicians licensed to do everything that M.D.'s do, but osteopaths also learn spinal manipulation (though some D.O.'s choose not to incorporate manipulation into their practice). Doctors of Chiropractic (D.C.'s) are trained at four-year chiropractic colleges. 
Despite Still’s dislike for orthodox medicine, by the 1860’s, Osteopathy had become integrated into mainstream North American medicine. In the States, the main difference between seeing a Medical Doctor and an Osteopath is the initials MD and DO after their names. Therefore, the use of manipulative therapies by Osteopaths in the US has fallen into less common use. Despite the past differences in philosophies between Chiropractic and Osteopathy, both practices were at odds with 1800’s orthodox medical practices that included procedures such as bloodletting which was believed to sweep out evil spirits and illnesses that took over the body.
Chiropractor vs. Osteopath. Diffen › Health › Medicine. A doctor of chiropractic is a professional who is engaged in the diagnosis of conditions throughout the body and focuses on the treatment of mechanical disorders of the musculoskeletal system. A traditional osteopath is a professional trained in the field of osteopathy. The academic degree for chiropractors is called Doctor of Chiropractic or DC. The World Health Organization (WHO) also lists other potential paths for pursuing this fulltime: B.Sc (Chiro) a 5 year integrated bachelor program and a 2-3 Masters program (M.Sc. Chiro) following a bachelor’s degree.
Though they treat similar kinds of ailments, osteopathic treatments focus on longer lever manipulations and manipulation of all the joints in a problem area. Doctors of chiropractic treatment is more specific and focused on a smaller area in a particular region. The academic degree for chiropractors is called Doctor of Chiropractic or DC. The World Health Organization (WHO) also lists other potential paths for pursuing this fulltime: B.Sc (Chiro) a 5 year integrated bachelor program and a 2-3 Masters program (M.Sc. Chiro) following a bachelor’s degree.
Chiropractors and osteopaths are both medical professionals who treat patients with a focus on the musculoskeletal system, including the spine, joints, muscles, tendons, and ligaments. A chiropractor focuses on adjusting perceived imbalances in the skeletal system. An osteopath is a medical doctor who treats the body as a whole, with emphasis on the musculoskeletal system. Chiropractors specialize in spinal adjustments. Chiropractic wellness and medicine is considered a holistic and natural theory of medicine