Best Answer: Valium (diazepam) is in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Valium (diazepam) affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause anxiety, seizures, and muscle spasms. for more information: http://www.drugs.com/valium.html. Source(s): inimesh4u · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
INDICATIONS. Valium is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. 
Doctors sometimes prescribe Valium along with other medications to treat convulsions or seizures. Valium belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines, which work by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the activity of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved diazepam in 1963 under the brand name Valium for the Roche drug company. Valium is also given to dogs, cats, and other animals to treat anxiety, seizures, or loss of appetite. Additionally, it may be used as a sedative prior to surgery or other veterinary procedures. Valium for dogs and cats should only be used under a veterinarian's guidance.
Valium, a popular sedative-hypnotic prescription drug, has numerous effects on the body, many of which can be dangerous when the drug is misused or abused. Valium is in the class of drugs known as benzodiazepines. Valium and other drugs like it act to potentiate the effects of a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system known as GABA – resulting in depression of a number of brain processes. 
Valium (diazepam) is a medication belonging to the drug class benzodiazepine. Valium is available as a generic drug. Valium is prescribed for the treatment of anxiety, seizures, muscle spasms, and symptoms of alcohol withdrawal. 
Uses. Diazepam is used to treat anxiety, acute alcohol withdrawal, and seizures. It is also used to relieve muscle spasms and to provide sedation before medical procedures. This medication belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines which act on the brain and nerves (central nervous system) to produce a calming effect. How to use Valium. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor. The dosage is based on your medical condition, age, and response to therapy. If you are taking a liquid form of this medication, use a medication measuring device to carefully measure out the prescribed dose.
11. Valium (diazepam) is a an anti-anxiety benzodiazepine drug that’s used to treat mood disorders, muscle spasms, and alcohol withdrawal symptoms. As a benzodiazepine, Valium interacts with neurotransmitters, especially GABA neurotransmitters, in the brain. Specifically, the diazepam in Valium binds with high affinity to the GABA A receptor in the brain to reduce arousal and to affect emotions.
A: Diazepam (Valium) is a benzodiazepine commonly used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Diazepam is not indicated for the treatment of depression. Diazepam is a controlled substance and may become habit forming. Only take diazepam as prescribed by your doctor. Valium is also given to dogs, cats, and other animals to treat anxiety, seizures, or loss of appetite. Additionally, it may be used as a sedative prior to surgery or other veterinary procedures. Valium for dogs and cats should only be used under a veterinarian's guidance.
Diazepam affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause anxiety. Diazepam is used to treat anxiety disorders, alcohol withdrawal symptoms, or muscle spasms. Diazepam is sometimes used with other medications to treat seizures. Diazepam may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide
Diazepam is the generic name for Valium, a prescription drug doctors prescribe to treat symptoms of anxiety disorders. Anxiety disorders include generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , panic disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) . Valium is also given to dogs, cats, and other animals to treat anxiety, seizures, or loss of appetite. Additionally, it may be used as a sedative prior to surgery or other veterinary procedures. Valium for dogs and cats should only be used under a veterinarian's guidance.