Springtails, or collembola, are primitive hexapods (six-legged arthropods) that are closely related to insects. These small critters (1-6 mm, usually less than 3 mm) live in soil, leaf litter, and other damp organic material. Springtails can be extremely abundant in some damp, highly organic soils. When springtails are abundant the cause is usually high soil moisture and/or highly organic soils. Usually the best control is to reduce soil moisture by watering less. A normal wet/dry cycle is often enough to reduce springtail numbers in a garden. You might also cut back on the amount of compost added each year.
Springtails, often called snow fleas, are some of the most primitive and populous insects on earth. Belonging to the Order Collembola, springtails have been found in fossil records dating back over 400 million years to the Devonian era. 
Springtails do not damage food products, clothes, furniture or any property. They are just nuisances. Springtails that infest houseplants are found in soil that is excessively damp or in soil mixes contain a high percentage of peat. They feed on decaying roots and fungi and rarely, if ever, damage plants. Springtails are also commonly found in the soil of houseplants. However when conditions are suitable, you can also find springtails indoors, especially in bathrooms, basements, and kitchens. Sometimes springtails can be found outside in the wintertime.
The springtails are soft-bodied, oval or roundish shaped, primitive insects. Their bodies are made up of six or fewer segments and they lack wings. Although many species have small eyes, some are nearly or totally blind. 
Snowfleas. Springtails are associated with damp conditions and organic debris and are found outdoors in soil, leaf litter, lichen, under bark, decaying plant matter, rotting wood, and other areas of high moisture. They are found in many different habitats, feeding on fungi, pollen, algae, or decaying organic matter. Springtails are also commonly found in the soil of houseplants. However when conditions are suitable, you can also find springtails indoors, especially in bathrooms, basements, and kitchens. Sometimes springtails can be found outside in the wintertime.
Springtails. One of the most unusual, and smallest, insect inhabitants of Texas lawns are springtails. Far from being harmful, springtails serve as decomposers, one of a community of organisms that help break down organic matter and return valuable nutrients to the soil. Springtails can be found in compost bins, lawns, mulch or nearly anywhere in soil or leaf litter. Occasionally, however, springtails become a nuisance around homes. Springtails are among the smallest insects in the home landscape. Typical species are about .04 inch-(1 mm-) long, barely visible to the eye. Identification. Springtails are among the smallest insects in the home landscape. Typical species are about .04 inch-(1 mm-) long, barely visible to the eye. Springtails are wingless and do not fly, but under a hand lens or microscope one can see a long tail, which is normally kept folded under the body.
Folsomia candida, a very common soil springtail. Springtails are one of the most common insects in the environment, although they are inconspicuous and are often overlooked. When suitable habitat occurs, they can develop tremendously large numbers and are one of the most abundant insects. Springtails are also commonly found in the soil of houseplants. However when conditions are suitable, you can also find springtails indoors, especially in bathrooms, basements, and kitchens. Sometimes springtails can be found outside in the wintertime.
- Tiny, soil-dwelling arthropods that can be extremely abundant and even enter houses -. Summary: Collembola, also called springtails, are tiny arthropods that can be very abundant in damp, organic soils where they feed on dead plant material and fungi, occasionally damaging tender plant roots. When springtails are abundant the cause is usually high soil moisture and/or highly organic soils. Usually the best control is to reduce soil moisture by watering less. A normal wet/dry cycle is often enough to reduce springtail numbers in a garden. You might also cut back on the amount of compost added each year.
Springtail. Springtails are tiny, insects frequently found in houses, although they occur more commonly outdoors. They are wingless, and move by crawling or jumping. The jumping motion is made possible by a forked tail bent forward under the body and attached to the underside of the abdomen. They are annoying as pests only by being present. Springtails may be abundant in overwatered, potted houseplants. However, they do not harm established plants. Since springtails are generally restricted to moist or humid habitats, one means of obtaining control is to lower the humidity or remove excess moisture.