Lee's Guide To Eating Raw Garlic. 1  Eat on an empty stomach. 2  Required: glove of garlic, orange juice or lemonade, small cup, flattener and knife. 3  The garlic is least hard on the stomach when it is empty, because the acid in the stomach neutralizes the harsh components in the garlic juice that can upset the stomach.
1 Required: glove of garlic, orange juice or lemonade, small cup, flattener and knife. 2  The garlic is least hard on the stomach when it is empty, because the acid in the stomach neutralizes the harsh components in the garlic juice that can upset the stomach.
Raw garlic can upset your stomach, esp if there is a lot of green in it. Cooked garlic should be ok. If you are eating raw garlic when you are sick (which is a great thing), I would suggest starting with just one finely chopped clove of the freshest, least green garlic you can find.
The reason why your stomach can hurt when eating garlic is because it is rich in fructans. Fructans is a compound commonly found in many foods, including fresh or cooked garlic as well as garlic powder and garlic salt. Fructans are made of a chain of fructose and are not digested in humans.
1 Eat on an empty stomach. 2  Required: glove of garlic, orange juice or lemonade, small cup, flattener and knife. 3  The garlic is least hard on the stomach when it is empty, because the acid in the stomach neutralizes the harsh components in the garlic juice that can upset the stomach.
1 The garlic is least hard on the stomach when it is empty, because the acid in the stomach neutralizes the harsh components in the garlic juice that can upset the stomach. 2  Use an acidic juice to chase the minced garlic down --- orange juice or lemonade.
Raw garlic can be unpleasant in the stomach when consumed on it’s own (if you eat raw garlic frequently on it’s own, I’ve read it could even lead to eventual damage in your stomach!). It also just tastes a lot better when consumed with something fatty. Keep in mind that these “recipes” aren’t culinary recipes.
Fresh garlic cloves on counter. Photo Credit Amarita/iStock/Getty Images. Garlic is used to add flavor to many sauces and dishes. Garlic can not only cause bad breath but it can also cause gastrointestinal problems and make your stomach hurt. Sensitive people can react to even tiny amounts of garlic, garlic powder or garlic salt.