Licensing and/or Certification. In order to practice as a child psychologist, candidates need to pass the Examination for Professional Practice of Psychology (EPPP) and obtain state licensure. Rules vary, and some states have additional requirements
Some areas of psychology have no direct training route. For example, to become a child psychologist you might first train as a clinical or counselling psychologist and then specialise in working with children. Or you could train in educational psychology and work with children in education. As a psychologist, you would specialise in one of the following areas: 1  educational-helping children and young people to overcome difficulties and further their educational and psychological development. 2  occupational – helping businesses improve their performance and increase employee job satisfaction.
You'll need to get a degree in psychology and then do some training once qualified, to become a psychiatrist you need to train as a doctor and then specialize. A specialist degree or its equivalent is required in most States for an individual to work as a school psychologist, although a few States still credential school psychologists with master's degrees.
A child psychologist will often use a variety of treatment method, many of which are similar to the treatment methods used with adults. Therapy, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, for instance, is often a popular form of treatment. What we do realize, however, is that childhood is a very influential time in a person's life. Events that happen in a person's childhood-even small, seemingly insignificant events-usually have a direct impact on how that person feels and acts as an adult. Featured Child Psychology Degree Programs:
Confidence votes 92.5K. You'll need to get a degree in psychology and then do some training once qualified, to become a psychiatrist you need to train as a doctor and then specialize. Answer A master's or doctoral degree, and a license, are required for most psychologists. A specialist degree or its equivalent is required in most States for an individual to work as a school psychologist, although a few States still credential school psychologists with master's degrees.
A bachelor's degree in counseling, social work, or child psychology is often a good start for a child counseling career. However, most professional child counselors are usually required to earn graduate degrees as well. Many universities and colleges offer master's degree programs in child or youth counseling. 
Necessary Training. In order to become licensed and certified as a child psychologist, you'll need to gain hands-on training by participating in an internship. The American Board of Professional Psychology requires a one-year full-time internship or a two-year part-time internship for certification. If you're interested in becoming a child psychologist, prepare to devote close to a decade to your education. First, you'll be required to earn a bachelor's degree in the field of your choice, though many aspiring child psychologists choose to major in psychology, social work or a related field.
If you want to become a child psychologist, you will most likely have a specific interest in subjects concerning children and families, and may do research in these fields during your doctoral program, such as focusing your thesis on it. 1. Focus on studying child psychology in college. Find a college that has a good 4-year degree program in the field of psychology, and offers several different child psychology and child development classes for undergraduates.
How to Become a Child Psychologist. A child psychologist has a doctorate degree in psychology (some positions only require a Masters degree), with a special interest in working with children. 1. Focus on studying child psychology in college. Find a college that has a good 4-year degree program in the field of psychology, and offers several different child psychology and child development classes for undergraduates.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a child psychologist. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensure to find out if this is the career for you. 