The main source of information on Lao Tzu's life is a biography written by the historian Ssu-ma Ch'ien (145–86. ) in his Records of the Historian. By this time a number of traditions or beliefs about the founder of Chinese. Taoism were going around, and Ssu-ma Ch'ien himself was unsure of their authenticity.
Biography of Lao Tzu-Founder of Taoism It's hard to pin down a biography of Lao Tzu (570-490 BC). There are numerous legends about him.
Lao-tzu is also one of the basic characters of the Chuang-tzu's stories-unfortunately they are mostly fiction. According to Ch'ien, Lao-tzu was born in the state of Ch'u, and his birthplace was in the nowadays Ho-nan province. He was a curator at the Royal Library in Chou when he met Confucius to talk about rites. This conversation offers much insight into the huge differences between Taoists and Confucians.
Lao Tzu meets Yin Xi, the Guardian of the Gate of Tibet. Although ascetics and hermits such as Shen Tao (who advocated that one 'abandon knowledge and discard self') first wrote of the 'Tao' it is with the sixth century B.C. philosopher Lao Tzu (or 'Old Sage' -- born Li Erh) that the philosophy of Taoism really began.
According to Ch'ien, Lao-tzu was born in the state of Ch'u, and his birthplace was in the nowadays Ho-nan province. He was a curator at the Royal Library in Chou when he. Lao-tzu surname was Li; his name was Erh (meaning ear) - this is why we find him also under the name of Li Erh.
Lao Tzu was born in app. 500 BC, in southern China in the state of Ch'u, now known as the Hunan Province.
Although ascetics and hermits such as Shen Tao (who advocated that one 'abandon knowledge and discard self') first wrote of the 'Tao' it is with the sixth century BCE philosopher Lao Tzu (or 'Old Sage' -- born Li Erh) that the philosophy of Taoism really began.
About Lao Tzu. Lao Tzu was born in app. 500 BC, in southern China in the state of Ch'u, now known as the Hunan Province. Almost nothing is known about Lao Tzu apart from what can be gleaned from the legends that surround his name.
For the book also known as Laozi, see Tao Te Ching. Laozi (also Lao-Tzu or Lao-Tze) was a philosopher and poet of ancient China. He is known as the reputed author of the Tao Te Ching and the founder of philosophical Taoism, and as a deity in religious Taoism and traditional Chinese religions.