For example, if you want to register your trademark for jewelry (Class 14) and clothing (class 25), then the government fee would normally be $ 650. You pay that fee directly to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office at the time that you apply for the trademark. Attorney fees are an additional cost. Most attorneys will prepare and file a trademark application for a flat fee that is normally between $ 500 and $1000. Applications with multiple classes may be more. The cost to register a federal trademark in the United States normally involves. 1  Fees paid to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (sometimes called “costs” or “official fees”); and.
The cost of trademarking a business name will vary depending on the type of registration you seek, how elaborate your trademark is and how you go about registration. State trademark registration is generally much less expensive than federal registration, but federal registration grants far more benefits. The fee for filing an online trademark application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, without the assistance of legal counsel, is $275 as of 2012. Depending on the state where your business is located, state trademark registration will generally cost between $50 and $100 without the assistance of legal counsel.
+ filing fee. Filing of trademark application with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). A basic federal direct-hit search of the federal trademark database for direct conflicts with your trademark* (a $75.00 value) or a discount on a Comprehensive Trademark Search Package. If the stricter TEAS Plus system can be used for your application, LegalZoom will use this system. The TEAS Plus system streamlines the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) review process and has a lower filing fee of $225, but requires additional LegalZoom labor to process.
A number of costs in the article Cost of a Trademark are not accurate. Starting with the Thomson & Thomson search (recommended), a US Full Availability search is priced at $595, and a Company Name Search is $930. This is triple the reported price range. 1 Each state issues its own trademark registration, but often it's not worth the effort because federal registration has higher legal standing, according to The New York State Science & Technology Center. 2  Nolo Press sells a basic do-it-yourself book on trademarks for $30-$35 (online or paper).
In that case, if you want federal trademark protection for the restaurant services class (which is Class 043) and the clothing products class (which is Class 025), you would have to pay a government filing fee of $550 for the two classes (since the standard fee is $275 per class). The Trademark Office charges a fee of $100 per class of goods/services for filing the Statement of Use. However, it should be noted that only an applicant who is not actually using their trademark at the time of the filing of their trademark application would be required to file a Statement of Use.
State Registration. State trademark registration is the most inexpensive way to register a trademark for your business name. Depending on the state where your business is located, state trademark registration will generally cost between $50 and $100 without the assistance of legal counsel.
Every 10 years, you must file an application to renew your trademark registration. The USPTO’s fees for trademark registration renewals are approximately $300 for an electronic application and about $400 for a paper application. Trademarking a business name can offer valuable protection. You may be able to obtain state trademark registration for $100–$200. 
1 Basic Patents.com charges $1,000 to prepare, docket and file a trademark application. 2  The New York State Science and Technolgy Law Center estimates attorney fees relative to trademark application to run $1,000-$1,500. 1 Each state issues its own trademark registration, but often it's not worth the effort because federal registration has higher legal standing, according to The New York State Science & Technology Center. 2  Nolo Press sells a basic do-it-yourself book on trademarks for $30-$35 (online or paper).
Hiring a Trademark Attorney. Hiring a trademark attorney will cost you between $1000-$2000 or so (filing fee included). If there is additional work needed outside of the general trademark filing process (disputes, etc) then expect to pay between $300-$400/hour for continued assistance. Considering it costs $1000 – $2000 dollars for an effective trademark filing, you should assess whether it is really necessary for your business to file for a trademark. In general, if you are just a local business, filing for a trademark is not worth it.