Genetic diversity is the total number of genetic characteristics in the genetic makeup of a species. It is distinguished from genetic variability, which describes the tendency of genetic characteristics to vary. Genetic diversity serves as a way for populations to adapt to changing environments. With more variation, it is more likely that some individuals in a population will possess variations of alleles that are suited for the environment. Those individuals are more likely to survive to produce offspring bearing that allele. The interdependence between genetic and species diversity is delicate. Changes in species diversity lead to changes in the environment, leading to adaptation of the remaining species. Changes in genetic diversity, such as in loss of species, leads to a loss of biological diversity.
Genetic diversity. Genetic diversity, the level of biodiversity, refers to the total number of genetic characteristics in the genetic makeup of a species. It is distinguished from genetic variability, which describes the tendency of genetic characteristics to vary. Genetic diversity serves as a way for populations to adapt to changing environments. With more variation, it is more likely that some individuals in a population will possess variations of alleles that are suited for the environment. Those individuals are more likely to survive to produce offspring bearing that allele
Genetic diversity. Definition. noun. Genetic diversity refers to both the vast numbers of different species as well as the diversity within a species. The greater the genetic diversity within a species, the greater that species' chances of long-term survival. This is because negative traits (such as inherited diseases) become widespread within a population when that population is left to reproduce only with its own members.
Genetic variation refers to diversity in gene frequencies. Genetic variation can refer to differences between individuals or to differences between populations. Mutation is the ultimate source of genetic variation, but mechanisms such as sexual reproduction and genetic drift contribute to it as well. 
The loss of genetic diversity is difficult to see or measure. In contrast, the reduction and extinction of populations is far easier to see. Extinction is not only the loss of whole species, but is also preceded by a loss of genetic diversity within the species. Furthermore, the loss of genetic diversity within a species can result in the loss of useful and desirable traits (e.g. resistance to parasites). Reduced diversity may eliminate options to use untapped resources for food production, industry and medicine.
Genetic diversity refers to the diversity(or genetic variability) within species.Each individual species possesses genes which are the source of its own unique features: In human beings, for example, the huge variety of people's faces reflects each person's genetic individuality. The term genetic diversity also covers distinct populations of a single species, such as the thousands of breeds of different dogs or the numerous variety of roses.
Genetic diversity: definition, types and measures. Genetic diversity has been defined as the variety of alleles and genotypes present in a population and this is reflected in morphological, physiological and behavioural differences between individuals and populations (Frankham et al. 2002). 2. Genetic diversity has been defined as the variety of alleles and genotypes present in a population and this is reflected in morphological, physiological and behavioural differences between individuals and populations (Frankham et al. 2002).