But bean benefits don't stop there. Legumes are a powerful weight-loss super food. One study found that regular bean eaters have smaller waistlines and a 22 percent lower risk of obesity. In part this may be because they’re a top source of fiber. One cup of black beans and lentils each packs a whopping 15 grams, 60 percent of the recommended daily minimum. Research has shown that for every gram of fiber we eat, we eliminate about seven calories. RELATED: For more tasty ways to add fiber to your diet, try these six overlooked foods for weight loss. Legumes are pretty hot in culinary circles these days, and you can enjoy them in many ways, including both sweet and savory dishes.
Recommended Portions. Your weight-loss calorie needs determine the amount of beans you should eat for effective weight loss. Due to the high fiber and protein content of beans, you can count beans as part of the vegetable or protein foods groups. A close-up of red kidney beans. Photo Credit schita/iStock/Getty Images. Beans are a welcome addition to weight-loss meal plans because they are packed with essential nutrients and help keep you feeling full for long periods of time.
The majority of these calories are from carbohydrates, which are essential nutrients but can lead to weight gain when consumed in excess. However, beans -- even starchy beans -- can help you lose weight when eaten in recommended portions. A close-up of red kidney beans. Photo Credit schita/iStock/Getty Images. Beans are a welcome addition to weight-loss meal plans because they are packed with essential nutrients and help keep you feeling full for long periods of time.
Complementing beans with grain foods, like rice, makes them a great substitute for higher-fat protein sources like meats. Beans are also filling enough to stave off hunger. The low-fat, high-fiber nature of a bean-centered diet means chances are good that you'll lose weight eating this way. As for vitamins and minerals, beans are a bonanza of folic acid, copper, iron, and magnesium -- four nutrients that many nutrition experts agree we don't get enough of. Indeed, most dry beans and peas are rich sources of iron -- ideal for people who don't eat meat.
Rediscover beans and peas and all the nutrition and versatility they have to offer. Find a way to work these valuable vegetables into your diet. Experiment with the types of beans and peas you like best in your recipes to make your weight-loss meals and snacks both nutritious and interesting. © Publications International, Ltd. As for vitamins and minerals, beans are a bonanza of folic acid, copper, iron, and magnesium -- four nutrients that many nutrition experts agree we don't get enough of. Indeed, most dry beans and peas are rich sources of iron -- ideal for people who don't eat meat.
Follow us on Pinterest. Beans may be known mostly for their unpleasant odiferous side effect when eaten, but beans are actually nutritious little gems. If you follow these tips, you can eat beans without the bloat, which means you can reap these weight-loss benefits. Here are three reasons to plate-up with beans.
Cons of Beans. Although legumes are protein-and fiber-rich, most are not low-calorie foods. The USDA National Nutrient Database reports that 1 cup of cooked pinto beans contains 245 calories in just 1 cup. A close-up of red kidney beans. Photo Credit schita/iStock/Getty Images. Beans are a welcome addition to weight-loss meal plans because they are packed with essential nutrients and help keep you feeling full for long periods of time.
Beans are often overlooked as a quality source of low fat protein. When combined with whole grains such as brown rice, beans provide a quality heart-healthy complete protein, but without the saturated fat of animal protein. A lot of dieters stick to high animal protein diets which can be helpful for weight loss. However, most of us consume only half of that, leaving many of us chronically constipated, fatigued, and frustrated by our inability to lose weight. The good news is that, with a little imagination, beans can play a tasty and important role in your weight loss goals.