The club is affiliated to the East Riding County Football association and is an FA Charter Standard Club. We operate teams in the Hull Boys Sunday Football League, the Humber Premier League and East Riding County League. We also run a football Academy with qualified coaches for children aged 5 to 7 years old where we teach them basic Soccer skills and match play.
Hull City Reserves play in the Reserve League East Division. The team plays home fixtures at the Church Road Ground, home of North Ferriby United. Hull City Juniors play in the Football League Youth Alliance, playing their home fixtures at Winterton Rangers ' home stadium. These early matches were played at the Boulevard, the home of Hull F.C. The club's first competitive football match was in the FA Cup preliminary round, drawing 3–3 with Stockton on 17 September, but they were eliminated after losing the replay 4–1 on 22 September.
The road from Cottingham to Hull connected with the Hull to Beverley Road (turnpiked by Act of 1744) at Newland toll bar; it was turnpiked as an extension of the Hull to Beverley Road in 1764. The pre-conquest owner of Cottingham was Gamel, the son of Osbert, in the reign of Edward the Confessor in the 11th century. After the conquest the land was in the possession of Hugh FitzBaldrick; at the time of the Domesday Book (1086) the manor included a mill, five fisheries, woodland and farm land.
After 1376 dikes were made to supply water to Kingston upon Hull with fresh water from a source between Cottingham and Anlaby; in 1392, some inhabitants of Cottingham and Anlaby rioted, and about 1,000 people laid siege to Kingston upon Hull, threatening to raze it to the ground. The pre-conquest owner of Cottingham was Gamel, the son of Osbert, in the reign of Edward the Confessor in the 11th century. After the conquest the land was in the possession of Hugh FitzBaldrick; at the time of the Domesday Book (1086) the manor included a mill, five fisheries, woodland and farm land.
UNDER 10s & UNDER 11s Sponsored Cycle-Sat 21st June. Oh we do like to be beside the seaside-details for the U10s and U11s annual fund raising day out-sponsored bike ride to Hornsea.  News Item,  1 year ago. By rich firth. Owing to Magic Weekend-there will be a free weekend this week-no training and no fixtures Sunday. 
Cottingham is a large village and civil parish in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England. It lies just to the north-west of the city of Kingston upon Hull. With a parish population of over 17,000 in 2011, Cottingham is one of the villages claiming to be the largest village in England. The pre-conquest owner of Cottingham was Gamel, the son of Osbert, in the reign of Edward the Confessor in the 11th century. After the conquest the land was in the possession of Hugh FitzBaldrick; at the time of the Domesday Book (1086) the manor included a mill, five fisheries, woodland and farm land.
Between 1904 and 1905, Hull City played their home games at The Boulevard. This ground was used by Hull on a contract which allowed them to use it when not used for Rugby League, at a cost of £100 per annum. Hull built their own ground, Anlaby Road, which was opened in 1906. These early matches were played at the Boulevard, the home of Hull F.C. The club's first competitive football match was in the FA Cup preliminary round, drawing 3–3 with Stockton on 17 September, but they were eliminated after losing the replay 4–1 on 22 September.
For further details contact Dave Jackson on 07801143117. East Riding Rangers F.C. was formed in the spring of 2000 starting with just 10 boys, this quickly grew throughout the summer and by the season started in September we had enough players to enter 2 teams in the Hull Boys Sunday football league. We operate teams in the Hull Boys Sunday Football League, the Humber Premier League and East Riding County League. We also run a football Academy with qualified coaches for children aged 5 to 7 years old where we teach them basic Soccer skills and match play.
HISTORY OF THE CLUB. The history of Cottingham Cricket Club goes back to the 1850's, but it wasn't until 1964 that the club moved from friendly only matches to playing League cricket, in the East Riding Amateur League. Since then the club has steadily expanded, forming a 2nd XI (1978), 3rd XI (1990) and 4th XI (2012). We also run junior teams, ranging from under 9 to under 17's, to become one of the largest clubs in the area. For many years the home ground, for all games, was King George V playing fields, Northgate, Cottingham. But the opportunity arose, in 1996, for the 1st XI to play at the British Rail Sports ground in Hull