This can have fatal consequences for the patient. The A antigen and the A antibodies can bind to each other in the same way that the B antigens can bind to the B antibodies. This is what would happen if, for instance, a B blood person receives blood from an A blood person. The red blood cells will be linked together, like bunches of grapes, by the antibodies. 
The time depends on how much blood you need and what part of the blood you receive. During the blood transfusion, a nurse carefully watches you, especially for the first 15 minutes. This is when allergic reactions are most likely to occur. The nurse continues to watch you during the rest of the procedure as well. This can happen even when the blood given is the right blood type. Allergic reactions can be mild or severe. Symptoms can include: 1  Anxiety. 2  Chest and/or back pain. 3  Trouble breathing. 4  Fever, chills, flushing, and clammy skin. 5  A quick pulse or low blood pressure.
1 Medicines: You can have an allergic reaction to the blood, even if it is the right type and Rh factor. 2  Tell the caregiver if you have ever developed a fever, itching, swelling, or hives during a blood transfusion. 1 Ask what you can bring into the transfusion room. 2  You may be able to eat, read, or watch TV during the transfusion. 3  You may also be able to go to the restroom with help from a caregiver. 4  You may be able to supply your own blood for transfusion during a planned surgery. 5  This is called autologous blood donat
Before you get a blood transfusion, your blood is tested to find out your blood type. And the blood you will get in the transfusion is tested to make sure it matches your blood. You may have a mild allergic reaction even if you get the correct blood type. Signs of a reaction include: 1  A fever. 2  Hives. 3  Shortness of breath. 4  Pain. 5  A fast heart rate. 6  Chills. 7  Low blood pressur
A reaction causes your body to form antibodies that attack the new blood cells. But tests can help avoid this. Before you get a blood transfusion, your blood is tested to find out your blood type. And the blood you will get in the transfusion is tested to make sure it matches your blood. You may have a mild allergic reaction even if you get the correct blood type. Signs of a reaction include: 1  A fever. 2  Hives. 3  Shortness of breath. 4  Pain. 5  A fast heart rate. 
Some people have allergic reactions to the blood given during transfusions. This can happen even when the blood given is the right blood type. Allergic reactions can be mild or severe. Symptoms can include: 1  Anxiety. 2  Chest and/or back pain. 3  Trouble breathing. 4  Fever, chills, flushing, and clammy skin. 5  A quick pulse or low blood pressure. 6  Nausea (feeling sick to the stomach)
Allergic reaction and hives. If you have an allergic reaction to the transfusion, you may experience hives and itching during the procedure or very soon after. This type of reaction is usually treated with antihistamines. If you quickly develop a fever during the transfusion, you may be having a febrile transfusion reaction. Your doctor will stop the transfusion to do further tests before deciding whether to continue. A febrile reaction can also occur shortly after the transfusion.
Blood transfusions are a fairly common procedure. The risk of serious side effects is low, as your blood is tested against the donor blood to make sure it is compatible, and you will be monitored regularly during the transfusion. Having an allergic reaction to the donated blood is a rare complication of a blood transfusion. In 2013, there were 320 reported cases of allergic reactions after a blood transfusion in the UK. An allergic reaction is caused by the body’s immune system reacting to proteins or other substances in the donated blood.