The basic characteristic of all subsidies is to reduce the market price of an item below its cost of production. Also called subvention. 2.Indirect financial contribution by a firm to its employees, such as low cost meals or free transportation. Also called benefit. For decades, the federal government has provided a subsidy to corn producers in order to lower the price of corn and products containing corn for consumers.
DEFINITION of 'Subsidy'. A benefit given by the government to groups or individuals usually in the form of a cash payment or tax reduction. The subsidy is usually given to remove some type of burden and is often considered to be in the interest of the public. Politics play an important part in subsidization.
[1] Consumer/Consumption subsidies commonly reduce the price of goods and services to the consumer. For example, in the US at one time it was cheaper to buy gasoline than bottled water. Whether subsidies are positive or negative is typically a normative judgment. With an employment subsidy, the government provides assistance with wages. Another form of employment subsidy is the social security benefits. Employment subsidies allow a person receiving the benefit to enjoy some minimum standard of living.
Full Definition of SUBSIDY. : a grant or gift of money: as a: a sum of money formerly granted by the British Parliament to the crown and raised by special taxation b: money granted by one state to another c: a grant by a government to a private person or company to assist an enterprise deemed advantageous to the public. 
A subsidy is a form of financial aid or support extended to an economic sector (or institution, business, or individual) generally with the aim of promoting economic and social policy. With an employment subsidy, the government provides assistance with wages. Another form of employment subsidy is the social security benefits. Employment subsidies allow a person receiving the benefit to enjoy some minimum standard of living.
The graphs above show the effect of subsidies given by the government to producers. When a subsidy is granted, the supply curve shifts to the right to supply + subsidy. This causes an increase in quantity of goods/service produced to increase. (From the example above, 460 to 540). This causes a fall in price of the good (from $260-220). Supply is the willingness of producers to produce a product or service at a given price. We wanted to use this graph to show that imposing subsidies will still be able to achieve a perfect market and to show the economic effects of a government subsidy.
subsidy. (a sum of) money paid by a government etc to an industry etc that needs help, or to farmers etc to keep the price of their products low. 
Subsidies for Postive Externalities. Subsidies involves the government paying part of the cost to the firm. This reduces the price of the good and should encourage more consumption. A subsidy shifts the supply curve to the right. 
Although commonly extended from Government, the term subsidy can relate to any type of support-for example from NGOs or implicit subsidies. Subsidies com: direct (cash grants, interest-free loans) and indirect (tax breaks, insurance, low-interest loans, depreciation write-offs, rent rebates). With an employment subsidy, the government provides assistance with wages. Another form of employment subsidy is the social security benefits. Employment subsidies allow a person receiving the benefit to enjoy some minimum standard of living.
Subsidies. A subsidy is an amount of money given directly to firms by the government to encourage production and consumption. A unit subsidy is a specific sum per unit produced which is given to the producer. The effect of a specific per unit subsidy is to shift the supply curve vertically downwards by the amount of the subsidy. In this case the new supply curve will be parallel to the original. The economic incidence of a subsidy indicates who is made better off by the subsidy. In contrast, the legal incidence indicates who, by law, the subsidy is intended to help. In the diagram below, the subsidy per unit is A – B, and the new quantity consumed is Q1.