Salihat Abaya Collection. The SHUKR abaya — the ultimate in Islamic fashion. Classy and elegant,our gorgeous flowing abayas will have you feeling like a queen in ourrange of soft, quality fabrics. Modern or traditional, casual or formal,whatever your style we have an abaya for you.
Tips For Choosing Quality Abayas. Abaya (also referred as burqa, burka) is a The primary purpose of wearing an abaya is to cover themeselves as instructed in the Islamic religion.A black abaya is one of the most common types of abaya worn. However, recently colored abayas have also come into fashion and are popularly worn by Muslim women. The denim fabric is applied decoratively to the sleeves and front of the abayas. 1) Fabric: Be specific regarding the material of the abayas. The material available are polyester, rayon, poly blends and cotton. 2) Colors: In the past abayas were available only in black.
Inspired by traditional Kaftan style this is a modern twist to a Kimono style Abaya Can be worn as an over garment or as an Abaya in itself. This dual purpose Abaya is a sure hot seller. Sizing for Kimono style is not according to our standard size chart due to its kaftan/kimono silhouette, adding [More]. 
Abayas and Dresses. Long, elegantly flowing fabric in our range of modest and versatile designs make SHUKR abayas the ultimate in Islamic fashion. Exquisitely elegant, our gorgeous classic abayas will have you feeling like a queen in our range of soft, quality fabrics.
A woman wearing an abaya and niqab. In Saudi Arabia, women are required to wear the abaya when in public. An abaya is seen as being acceptable to the Quran's instruction on women's dress. A woman in a burqa. In Saudi Arabia, where it is a law that women must cover themselves, the abaya is worn with the niqab, a veil that covers all parts of the head and face except for the eyes. The muttawa, or religious police, enforce the law and may punish a woman if she is seen without this covering.
Traditional abayat are black and may be either a large square of fabric draped from the shoulders or head or a long caftan. The abaya covers the whole body except the face, feet, and hands. It can be worn with the niqāb, a face veil covering all but the eyes. Some women choose to wear long black gloves, so their hands are covered as well. The rationale behind the abaya is dealt with at greater length in the article Niqab. Often the Quranic quote, O Prophet, tell your wives and daughters, and the believing women, to cover themselves with a loose garment. They will thus be recognised and no harm will come to them.
In countries on the Arabian Peninsula, this garment is known as an abaya. The abaya is typically black, and it drapes from the head or the shoulders down to the feet. In Saudi Arabia, where it is a law that women must cover themselves, the abaya is worn with the niqab, a veil that covers all parts of the head and face except for the eyes. The muttawa, or religious police, enforce the law and may punish a woman if she is seen without this covering.
Islamic Clothing Definition: Abaya. Many women in Saudi Arabia still wear the traditional abaya with full head and face covering, although some women choose now to leave off the face cover. Non-Muslim women wear the abaya but are not expected to cover their heads and faces. It is long-sleeved, floor-length, and is worn from either the shoulder or the top of the head. The abaya is worn over street clothes when a woman leaves her home, and is designed to be loose and flowing, hiding the curves of the body.