Choose a suitable spot. If you want to grow a tall tree magnolia, ensure that there is plenty of space for it to grow. Magnolia will grow in both sun or part-shade. 1  If you want a smaller version, plant the variety known as Little Gem that grows 5 to 8 meters (16.4 to 26.2 ft) in height and 4 meters (13.1 ft) in width. How to Grow a Magnolia Tree. Magnolia trees are magnificent when in full bloom. If you have the space for one in your garden, you'll get both beauty and shade. Tolerant of city environments, and of pollution, these are an ideal choice for the right garden.
The Magnolia Tree. The original magnolia tree and some of its varieties grow 25 feet tall at a rate of 24 inches per growing season. “Galaxy” is a deciduous tree that blossoms in spring and grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 6 through 9. Magnolia trees bear flowers in a variety of colors, including white, pink and yellow. Just how fast your magnolia tree grows depends on the kind you have. These trees are well-known for their beautiful flowers, but actually some varieties bear inconspicuous blossoms. In the landscape, magnolia trees provide dense shade and make attractive privacy screens
Other Fast-Growing Cultivars. Fast growing trees grow more than 24 inches a year. “Samuel Sommer” (Magnolia grandiflora “Samuel Sommer”) is a fast-growing cultivar that has bronze and green leaves up to 14 inches wide, and grows from 30 to 40 feet tall and 30 feet wide. The widely-planted “Claudia Wannamaker” (Magnolia grandiflora “Claudia Wannamaker”) is a fast grower with a broad pyramid form. This is rated as a slow-to-medium rate of growth, but how fast a tree will grow varies with the cultivar and growing conditions. Southern magnolias are found on every major plantation of the old South and flank the club house at Augusta National golf course in Augusta, Georgia.
Large Trees. The fast-growing magnolia suitable for a shade tree is Magnolia acuminata, also known as cucumbertree or cucumber magnolia after its cucumber-shaped fruit. The cucumber magnolia grows 60 to 80 feet tall and 30 feet wide, though its flowers are quite small. A cultivar of the famed Magnolia grandiflora or Southern magnolia, Samuel Sommer, is vigorous and fast growing. The umbrella magnolia or Magnolia tripetala is a small to medium sized multi-stemmed deciduous magnolia often found growing in the shade of eastern North American hardwood forests. Leaves up to 20 inches long and 10 inches across emerge before foul-smelling 8-inch flowers.
The rate of magnolia tree growth depends on the specific species. Most magnolia trees grow at a slow-to-medium rate, averaging 1 to 2 feet a year. Keywords: growing, rate, slow. About this Author. Karen Carter spent three years as a technology specialist in the public school system and her writing has appeared in the Willapa Harbor Herald and the Rogue College Byline.. She has an Associate of Arts from Rogue Community College with a certificate in computer information systems.
Small to Medium Trees. The hybrid magnolia Todd Gresham is a fast-growing deciduous magnolia named for its Santa Cruz, California plant breeder D. Todd Gresham. Flowers are tulip-shaped and 10 inches wide, red-purple on the outside and white on the inside. The umbrella magnolia or Magnolia tripetala is a small to medium sized multi-stemmed deciduous magnolia often found growing in the shade of eastern North American hardwood forests. Leaves up to 20 inches long and 10 inches across emerge before foul-smelling 8-inch flowers.
Southern magnolias grow from 1 to 2 feet a year, reaching 60 to 80 feet tall with canopies spreading 30 to 50 feet wide. This is rated as a slow-to-medium rate of growth, but how fast a tree will grow varies with the cultivar and growing conditions. Southern magnolias are found on every major plantation of the old South and flank the club house at Augusta National golf course in Augusta, Georgia.
Magnolia grandiflora, commonly known as the southern magnolia or bull bay, is a tree of the family Magnoliaceae native to the southeastern United States, from South Virginia to central Florida, and west to East Texas and Oklahoma. Magnolia grandiflora is a medium to large evergreen tree which may grow 120 ft (37 m) tall. It typically has a single stem (or trunk) and a pyramidal shape. The leaves are simple and broadly ovate, 12–20 cm (4.7–7.9 in) long and 6–12 cm (2.4–4.7 in) broad, with smooth margins.