The structure of the lipid bilayer explains its function as a barrier. Lipids are fats, like oil, that are insoluble in water because of its long hydrophobic tails. The hydrophobic interactions among several phospholipids and glycolipids, a certain structure called lipid bilayer or bimolecular sheet is favored. The lipid bilayer is typically about five nanometers to ten nanometers thick and surrounds all cells providing the cell membrane structure. With the hydrophobic tails of each individual sheet interacting with one another, a hydrophobic interior is formed and this acts as a permeability barrier.
Phospholipids are amphiphilic with the hydrocarbon tail of the molecule being hydrophobic; its polar head hydrophilic. As the plasma membrane faces watery solutions on both sides, its phospholipids accommodate this by forming a phospholipid bilayer with the hydrophobic tails facing each other. Integral Membrane Proteins. 1  Some are attached to lipids in the bilayer. 2  In others — the transmembrane proteins — the polypeptide chain actually traverses the lipid bilayer. 3  The figure shows a transmembrane protein that passes just once through the bilayer and another that passes through it 7 times.
The arrangement of hydrophilic heads and hydrophobic tails of the lipid bilayer prevent polar solutes (ex. amino acids, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, proteins, and ions) from diffusing across the membrane, but generally allows for the passive diffusion of hydrophobic molecules. 
In contrast, the hydrophilic part of the lipid is happy to be in contact with both inside or outside of the cell. To prevent the hydrophobic parts from being exposed to either side, a bilayer must form. This is because a single layer would mean the hydrophobic part would be forced to be in contact with water. As the hydrophilic part of the lipid is polar and water is also polar, they will be attracted to each other. Likewise the non-polar hydrophobic part will be attracted to other non-polar molecules. As there is fairly high water content both inside and outside of cells, the hydrophobic part of the lipid doesn't want to be in contact with the inside OR the outside of a cell.
Lipid bilayer is a universal component of all cell membranes. The structure is called a lipid bilayer because it composed of two layers of fatty acids organized in two sheets. The lipid bilayer is typically about five nanometers to ten nanometers thick and surrounds all cells providing the cell membrane structure. With the hydrophobic tails of each individual sheet interacting with one another, a hydrophobic interior is formed and this acts as a permeability barrier.
Phospholipids are a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes. They can form lipid bilayers because of their amphiphilic characteristic. The structure of the phospholipid molecule generally consists of two hydrophobic fatty acid tails and a hydrophilic head consisting of a phosphate group. The two components are joined together by a glycerol molecule. The phosphate groups can be modified with simple organic molecules such as choline
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The tails of lipids are hydrophobic and the heads are hydrophilic hope this helped=) The tails of lipids are hydrophobic and the heads are hydrophilic hope this helped=). 
Lipid molecules are slightly soluble to insoluble in water. Lipids are hydrophobic because the molecules consist of long, 16-18 carbon, hydrocarbon backbones with only a small amount of oxygen containing groups. Lipids serve many functions in organisms. The lipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane, and its structure creates a semi-permeable membrane. The hydrophobic core impedes the diffusion of hydrophilic structures, such as ions and polar molecules but allows hydrophobic molecules, which can dissolve in the membrane, to cross it with ease.
The lipid bilayer is a thin polar membrane made of two layers of lipid molecules. These membranes are flat sheets that form a continuous barrier around all cells. 
Figure 1: The lipid bilayer and the structure and composition of a glycerophospholipid molecule. (A) The plasma membrane of a cell is a bilayer of glycerophospholipid molecules. (B) A single glycerophospholipid molecule is composed of two major regions: a hydrophilic head (green) and hydrophobic tails (purple). (C) The subregions of a glycerophospholipid molecule; phosphatidylcholine is shown as an example.