In the sympathetic nervous system norepinephrine is used as a neurotransmitter by sympathetic ganglia located near the spinal cord or in the abdomen, and is also released directly into the bloodstream by the adrenal glands. Areas of the body that produce or are affected by norepinephrine are referred to everywhere as noradrenergic. Norepinephrine is synthesized and released by the central nervous system and also by a division of the autonomic nervous system called the sympathetic nervous system.
Norepinephrine, also called noradrenaline, is an organic chemical in the catecholamine family that functions in the human brain and body as a hormone and neurotransmitter. Areas of the body that produce or are affected by norepinephrine are referred to everywhere as noradrenergic. Norepinephrine is synthesized and released by the central nervous system and also by a division of the autonomic nervous system called the sympathetic nervous system.
Norepinephrine is a neurotransmitter secreted by neurons in the sympathetic nervous system. This chemical is secreted in response to stress, which triggers the 'fight or flight response.' The release of norepinephrine causes several changes that help our body to work more efficiently. It is classified as a neurotransmitter, a chemical that is released from neurons. Because the release of norepinephrine affects other organs of the body, it is also referred to as a stress hormone.
Dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine are a group of neurotransmitters called catecholamines. Norepinephrine is also called noradrenalin and epinephrine is also called adrenalin. Each of these neurotransmitters is produced in a step-by-step fashion by a different enzyme. 
Another relative of norepinephrine and epinephrine is dopamine, discovered to be a neurotransmitter in the 1950s by another Swede, Arvid Carlsson. It is an inhibitory neurotransmitter, meaning that when it finds its way to its receptor sites, it blocks the tendency of that neuron to fire. Glutamate. Glutamate is an excitatory relative of GABA. It is the most common neurotransmitter in the central nervous system-as much as half of all neurons in the brain-and is especially important in regards to memory. Curiously, glutamate is actually toxic to neurons, and an excess will kill them.
NOREPINEPHRINE is an excitatory neurotransmitter that is responsible for stimulatory processes in the body. Norepinephrine helps to make epinephrine as well. This neurotransmitter can cause ANXIETY at elevated excretion levels as well as some “MOOD DAMPENING” effects. There are two kinds of neurotransmitters – INHIBITORY and EXCITATORY. Excitatory neurotransmitters are not necessarily exciting – they are what stimulate the brain. Those that calm the brain and help create balance are called inhibitory.
Those are both caused by the release of norepinephrine in your body. Norepinephrine is a chemical released from the sympathetic nervous system in response to stress. It is classified as a neurotransmitter, a chemical that is released from neurons. Because the release of norepinephrine affects other organs of the body, it is also referred to as a stress hormone.
In the most basic terms, the function of norepinephrine is to mobilize the brain and body for action. Norepinephrine release is lowest during sleep, rises during wakefulness, and reaches much higher levels during situations of stress or danger, in what has been called the fight-or-flight response. Areas of the body that produce or are affected by norepinephrine are referred to everywhere as noradrenergic. Norepinephrine is synthesized and released by the central nervous system and also by a division of the autonomic nervous system called the sympathetic nervous system.
Norepinephrine is a neurotransmitter that is secreted in response to stress. Learn about what norepinephrine is and how it affects the body. Additionally, discover what drug contains norepinephrine and if it is safe to use. It is classified as a neurotransmitter, a chemical that is released from neurons. Because the release of norepinephrine affects other organs of the body, it is also referred to as a stress hormone.