Example of Latin text with abbreviations. An abbreviation (from Latin brevis, meaning short) is a shortened form of a word or phrase. It consists of a group of letters taken from the word or phrase. For example, the word abbreviation can itself be represented by the abbreviation abbr. , abbrv. or abbrev. Writers often use shorthand to denote units of measure. Such shorthand can be an abbreviation, such as in for  inch  or can be a symbol such as km for  kilometre . The shorthand in applies to English only—in Afrikaans for example, the shorthand dm is used for the equivalent Afrikaans word duim.
In the English customary systems there are no official symbols or abbreviations. For many English units a variety of abbreviations are used. Sometimes these abbreviations duplicate metric symbols; for example, A is sometimes used in English for the acre instead of the ampere. In the International System of Units (SI) , the units do not have abbreviations. They have symbols. The unit symbols do not follow the grammatical rules for abbreviations, because they follow the mathematical rules for symbols instead. These rules include the following. 1  A symbol is never followed by a period (unless, of course, it happens to fall at the end of a sentence)
Percentage rative text, but abbreviations may be appropriate on may be used with numerals in a phrase such as certain maps or tables; uniformity in such usage is 5 percentage points. desirable. Unusual abbreviations must be defined to 108 Abbreviations, signs, and symbols. avoid misunderstandings. Table 4. Abbreviations, signs, and symbols for scientific Table 4. Abbreviations, signs, and symbols for scientific and engineering terms-Continued and engineering terms-Continued cumulative frequency ......................
In tables, the abbreviation pct or the symbol % may be used if other terms of measurement are also abbreviated. The symbol %, however, is not as easily read in small type. Percent should be used with numerals: 20 percent.. It is preferred to percentage for table headings. Table 4. Abbreviations, signs, and symbols for scientific Table 4. Abbreviations, signs, and symbols for scientific and engineering terms-Continued and engineering terms-Continued cumulative frequency ......................
Following is the system of abbreviations and symbols used in the course listings that appear throughout this Bulletin. Part of each course number is an alphabetical prefix that indicates the University school, college, or program (first three letters) and the department (next two letters) in which the course originates. 
The symbol for about in math is this ~ , for example if an answer is 6,00428535578 you might write ~6. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Nicole Wilson. 93 Contributions. I work in content at Answers.com. I graduated from UCSD with a degree in Communications. For example Ave. stands for Avenue and Apt. stands for apartment. An abbreviation (from Latin brevis sho … rt) is a shorter form of a word. More particularly, an abbreviation is a letter or group of letters, taken from a word or words, and employed to represent them for the sake of.
B. Each abbreviation, acronym and symbol may be used only to signify the meaning. indicated for it in this policy. C. Standard recognized abbreviations for time, days of the week, months of the year; measurements of weight, length, amount and chemical symbols may be used. D. Unauthorized abbreviations may be used only after the complete work or phrase is used. at least once in the text followed by the abbreviation in parentheses. A. Only MCCMH approved abbreviations, acronyms and symbols (Exhibit A) are to be used in documentation generated by MCCMH network providers for inclusion in clinical records of MCCMH consumers.