Divergent baby names are inspired by the characters of the book or the actors that played a role in the first block buster movie. They are grouped in baby girl names and baby boy names, and each one is presented with full background information, origin and meaning.
Beatrice Tris. Beatrice, or Tris, is the main character of the book. She is the one who is Divergent-meaning she has aptitude for more than one faction (Abnegation, Dauntless and Erudite). We follow her throughout the story as she goes from a timid Abnegation girl to a top Dauntless member.
Beatrice: the lead character’s name. Beatrice was the original name that was given to Tris before she changed factions from Abnegation to Dauntless. Beatrice is one of the Divergent baby names that are vintage and old-school. It reminds people of the Victorian era where you had powerful queens.
Discover strong boy names and unique girl names inspired by the trilogy sci-fi movie. Divergent baby names honor the five factions that this modern society uses in order to group people according to their personalities. These cast system is supposed to secure peace and bring happiness and order in sociey.
”. In Veronica Roth’s novel Divergent, Beatrice Prior 's society is divided into five factions, each dedicated to the cultivation of a particular virtue. These are: Abnegation, Erudite, Dauntless, Amity, and Candor.
List of Divergent Names. That is my list of characters in the Divergent book that I felt really helped shape the plot line in the first book. If you feel that there is another main character that I am overlooking, please let me know about him or her in the comments section below!
15 works, 3 primary works. Divergent: One choice can transform you. Veronica Roth's #1 New York Times bestselling debut is a gripping dystopian tale of electrifying choices, powerful consequences, unexpected romance, and a deeply flawed perfect society.Insurgent: One choice can destroy you.
Caleb: one of the most popular baby names inspired by Divergent. Caleb is a Hebrew masculine name that means devotion to God. Caleb is the brother of Beatrice, the boy that everybody thought would choose Abnegation because he was always ready to help those in need.
In Veronica Roth’s novel Divergent, Beatrice Prior 's society is divided into five factions, each dedicated to the cultivation of a particular virtue.