The leaves and the flowering tops are used to make medicine. Lemon verbena is used for digestive disorders including indigestion, gas, colic, diarrhea, and constipation. It is also used for agitation, joint pain, trouble sleeping (insomnia), asthma, colds, fever, hemorrhoids, varicose veins, skin conditions, and chills. LEMON VERBENA Side Effects & Safety. Lemon verbena is safe for most people when consumed in amounts found in alcoholic beverages. It also seems to be safe when taken in appropriate amounts as a medicine. It can cause skin irritation (dermatitis) in some people.
Aloysia citrodora is a species of flowering plant in the verbena family Verbenaceae, native to western South America. Common names include lemon verbena and lemon beebrush. Lemon verbena leaves are used to add a lemon flavor to fish and poultry dishes, vegetable marinades, salad dressings, jams, puddings, Greek yogurt and beverages. It also is used to make herbal teas, or added to standard tea in place of actual lemon (as is common with Moroccan tea). It can also be used to make a sorbet.
Some people apply verbena directly to the skin to treat poorly healing wounds, abscesses and burns; for arthritis, joint pain (rheumatism), dislocations, bone bruises (contusions), and itching. Verbena is also used as a gargle for cold symptoms and other conditions of the mouth and throat. In combination with gentian root, European elder flower, cowslip flower, and sorrel, verbena is used for maintaining healthy sinuses and treating inflamed or swollen sinuses (sinusitis). Verbena is used for sore throats and respiratory tract diseases such as asthma and whooping cough, and for heart conditions such as chest pain (angina) and fluid retention due to heart failure.
Verbena (/vərˈbiːnə/ , vervain) is a genus in the family Verbenaceae. Verbena has longstanding use in herbalism and folk medicine, usually as an herbal tea. Nicholas Culpeper 's 1652 The English Physitian discusses folk uses. Among other effects, it may act as a galactagogue (promotes lactation) and possibly sex steroid analogue.
Lemon verbena also shares the name, but is actually another plant, Aloysia triphylla. This herb also has another common name, citronalis, that refers to its lemony scent and flavor. Cultivated and lemon verbenas are used in tisanes, tea-like drinks in which flowers or leaves are steeped. Tea bags with these herbs are sold grocery and health food stores. Portions of these plants are also distilled to create oils or used as condiments.
Lemon verbena or lemon beebrush is an intensely aromatic plant native to Argentina and Chile. It was brought to Europe with early explorers, and became a popular addition to herb gardens in places like England. 
Verbena is the common name for plants in the Verbenaceae family, which includes herbs, shrubs, and trees, including teak. The family includes wild and cultivated members, some of which feature fragrant, showy blossoms. Cultivated and lemon verbenas are used in tisanes, tea-like drinks in which flowers or leaves are steeped. Tea bags with these herbs are sold grocery and health food stores. Portions of these plants are also distilled to create oils or used as condiments.
Verbena is a plant. The parts that grow above ground are used to make medicine. Verbena is used for sore throats and respiratory tract diseases such as asthma and whooping cough, and for heart conditions such as chest pain (angina) and fluid retention due to heart failure.
Verbena is an annual flower known for being a garden treasure in areas where few other plants will grow. Some varieties trail; others form mounds of color. Description: The trailing plant varieties may reach 18 inches in diameter, while the mounding types will grow to about a foot high and wide. 
Lemon verbena is a popular spice for European teas, fruit drinks, and desserts. Verbena, a Latin word meaning leafy branch, was originally used as a perfume. Though not widely used in culinary applications, it adds a refreshing taste to many cold dishes. Lemon verbena is a long, pointed, green leaf available fresh or dried. It is used whole or chopped. The dried form retains its flavor well. Fresh lemon verbena has a strong, lemon-lime-like flavor, with a fruity and penetrating aroma.