The result could be cramping, an upset stomach and diarrhea. If you've eaten a small meal, you should still wait two to three hours before working out intensely. Experiment with snacks. For some people, a small snack (like a banana) right before, and even during, exercise provides an energy boost. For others, it can make them feel lightheaded. You should do whatever feels good to you. Meanwhile, when it comes to eating before exercise, the type of food, and your workout, is important.
You get free increased calorie burning after exercise for up to two hours, so if you can hold off that long you'll still be burning calories at a higher rate than you BMR. You can drink water during this period to help stave it off, 30 minutes is about the length I can manage without grabbing at least a fruit drink. 
When it comes to eating before exercise, it's all about timing. No matter what time of day you choose to exercise, make sure to plan your workout two to three hours after your meal. Going overboard with too much food right before a workout will leave you feeling sluggish and can lead to stomach discomfort. How you space out meals during the course of the day might not make a big difference in the calorie department, but it has huge implications on your workout performance.
up vote 2 down vote. Unfortunately, there is no strict formula for this and the answer strongly depends on the intensity of exercise. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. More than 15 miles, I try to add calories during.
To replace the glycogen stores in your body quickly and effectively, eat a snack that contains both protein and carbohydrates. This will provide both fast-acting and sustainable energy to your body. Try to eat a snack within two hours of exercising, but wait a minimum of 15 minutes after exercising before you eat. Bring a snack along to the gym with you, so you can eat as soon as your workout is over
Timing. Make it a practice to eat large meals at least three to 4 hours before working out. If you have a smaller sized meal, you can work out two to 3 hours after eating. Light snacks are typically fine when eaten right before and even during exercise. When you are done working out, you can enjoy a meal immediately. 
How long you need to wait to exercise depends on how big the meal was. If it’s something small, like around 200 calories, you could probably exercise right after eating. However, if you’re eating a large meal, you may need to wait more like 2-3 hours. The smaller the meal the less it will impact your work out. If you know you’re exercising soon after, don’t stuff yourself.
It takes 30 to 40 minutes for food to digest in your stomach and 3 to 4 hours for it to absorb in your intestines. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy. From my experience if I eat a large meal which is heavy in carbohydrates I see my best performance with a high intensity exercise 6 to 8 hours later. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. More than 15 miles, I try to add calories during.
Originally Posted by wgr73 Just as the title says: After eating, how long do I wait before I can workout?? I've been meaning to ask this for a while...thanks guys! Personally, I like to give it a 30 minute break, but I've been on long bike rides/races and ate while riding so I think whatever works for you is fine. 