Gestation is the period of time that a mammal carries her offspring, or babies, inside her body before giving birth. The length of gestation is different for each type of mammal. Larger animals usually have longer gestations than smaller animals. Human gestation, or pregnancy, lasts about nine months. 
This table lists the proper age for first mating, the animals' period of fertility, the number of females for one male, and period of gestation (days) for: ewe, ram, mare, stallion, cow, bull, sow, boar, doe goat, buck goat, bitch, male dog, queen cat, tom cat, doe rabbit, and buck rabbit. 
Duration [edit]. For most species, the amount a fetus grows before birth determines the length of the gestation period. Smaller species normally have a shorter gestation period than larger animals. For example, a cat's gestation normally takes 58–65 days while an elephant's takes nearly 2 years (21 months). However, growth does not necessarily determine the length of gestation for all species, especially for those with a breeding season. 
The gestation periods of other animal reveals that the length of the gestation period is largely a matter of the animal specie's size. Asian elephants have a gestation period of 645 days and African elephants 640 days. Dogs and other canines have a gestation period of about 60, which is also the period for cats. And the gestation periods of chimpanzees (237 days), gorilla (257 days) and orangutan (260 days) indicate that the approximate nine-month gestation period predates the emergence of human beings as a species.
Even within the species of apes and monkeys gestation period seem to be a matter of size. For Rhesus monkeys it is 164 days and baboons 187 days. For small animals such as rabbits the period is about 33 days and for mice about 20 days. And the gestation periods of chimpanzees (237 days), gorilla (257 days) and orangutan (260 days) indicate that the approximate nine-month gestation period predates the emergence of human beings as a species.
Gestation Periods and Animal Scale. The gestation period of humans is 266 days, 8 days short of nine months. Many such biological characteristics have an explanation in terms evolutionary survival value. Even some seemingly cultural characteristics of human society have such a biological explanation. And the gestation periods of chimpanzees (237 days), gorilla (257 days) and orangutan (260 days) indicate that the approximate nine-month gestation period predates the emergence of human beings as a species.
Yikes. 5. Opossum - 12-13 days, which is one of the shortest gestation periods we know of in a mammal. But since the lifespan of an opossum is only two to four years, this makes sense. 6. Gerbils “ 23-26 days. 7. Gorillas “ 8.5 months