Liverpool FC supporters with a banner of their five most successful managers: Bill Shankly, Bob Paisley, Joe Fagan, Kenny Dalglish and Rafael Benitez. Benítez Liverpool Football club is An english association football club based In, Liverpool. merseyside
Overall Liverpool Football Club have had 17 permanent managers as well as one caretaker manager since the club was established in 1892. Tom Watson is currently the longest-serving manager, managing Liverpool FC for 19 years. The most LFC matches ever managed by a single manager is 783, by the famous Bill Shankly. The first player-manager in English football history was Kenny Dalglish appointed in 1985. The most successful manager of all time in Liverpool FC's history is Bob Paisley, who won a total of 19 trophies.
Liverpool Football Club is an English association football club based in Liverpool, Merseyside. The club was formed in 1892 following a disagreement between the board of Everton and club president John Houlding, who owned the club's ground, Anfield.
Liverpool have had 19 full time managers in the club's 120 year history. The reds longest-serving manager is Tom Watson who managed the club for 19 years. In the post-war period Bill Shankly was at the helm for 15 years.
Kenny Dalglish. King Kenny returned as Liverpool manager for a second time on 8 January 2011, following the departure of Roy Hodgson. Roy Hodgson. Roy Hodgson was appointed Liverpool manager on 1st July, 2010 following the departure of Rafael Benitez.
Could not subscribe, try again later. Brendan Rodgers manager of Liverpool with Mike Marsh first team coach and Colin Pascoe assistant manager during a training session at Melwood Training Ground on April 30, 2015 in Liverpool, England.
As of the end of the 2011–12 season, Liverpool have had 18 full-time managers. The most successful person to manage Liverpool is Bob Paisley, who won six Football League titles, five Charity Shields, three Football League Cups, three European Cups, one UEFA Super Cup and one UEFA Cup in his nine-year reign as manager.