Means star in Latin. This name was created by the 16th-century poet Sir Philip Sidney for the subject of his collection of sonnets 'Astrophel and Stella'. It was not commonly used as a given name until the 19th century. 
The name Stella comes from the Latin word “stella” meaning “star” ultimately from the Proto-Indo-European root *stēr-meaning the same (Pok. 1028). A star is, of course, an astronomical object seen as a bright point of light against the night sky. 
Latin Meaning: The name Stella is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Stella is: Star. Swedish Meaning: The name Stella is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Stella is: Star.
(s)tel-la, st-e- lla ] The baby girl name Stella is pronounced as ST AH L-aa- †. Stella is of Latin origin. It is used mainly in the English, German, and Italian languages. It is literally from the word stella meaning 'star'. 
Stella /stel-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced STEL-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Stella is star. Mostly literary use until the 19th century, when the name became popular. Linked in most minds to the movie A Streetcar named Desire, where Marlon Brando bellowed Stella!. Kreatif forms: Stelna, Stelra. Presented below is the baby name popularity of Stella for girls. Stella reached its highest rank of #59 in the U.S. in the 1880s, and is at #66 currently. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014). Prominent variation forms of Stella (#66 in 2014) are Estella (#955 in 2014) , Estelle (#906) , Estrella (#839) and Starla.
About the name Stella. The meaning of the name Stella: Star. The origin of the name Stella: Latin. People who like the name Stella also like: Charlotte, Ava, Olivia, Scarlett, Violet, Ella, Sophia. Liam, Noah, Oliver, Henry, Owen, Benjamin, Jackson. Notes: Stella is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Stella is star. The most common nickname for Stella is Stell. Stella Adler was a famous acting teacher known for the “Adler Method” of acting. Singers named Stella include Stella Maessen, Stella vander, and Stella Cornelia. The most famous Stella from fiction is likely Stella Kowalski from A Streetcar Named Desire. Stella is also a name featured in the t.v. shows How I Met Your Mother and CSI:NY.
American Meaning: The name Stella is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Stella is: Star. French Meaning: The name Stella is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Stella is: Derived from the Old French form of the Latin 'stella' meaning star. Famous bearer: The heroine of Charles Dickens' novel 'Great Expectations'. The name Stella is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Stella is: Star. Swedish Meaning: The name Stella is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish
There is evidence that the name was used in England as far back as 1374, but it wasn't until the 16th century when Sir Philip Sidney used the name in his sonnets Astrophel to Stella, that the name became commonly known. Stella is also used as a short form of Estelle. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. The Spanish Estella, and thus the English and French Estelle, also derive from stella which is Latin for star.. This name was used by the 16th-century poet Sir Philip Sidney for the subject of his collection of sonnets 'Astrophel and Stella'.
American Meaning: The name Estella is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Estella is: Star. French Meaning: The name Estella is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Estella is: Derived from the Old French form of the Latin 'stella' meaning star. Famous bearer: The heroine of Charles Dickens' novel 'Great Expectations'. 