Definitions. 1  a malleable ductile reddish metallic element occurring as the free metal, copper glance, and copper pyrites: used as an electrical and thermal conductor and in such alloys as brass and bronze. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3
1. Symbol Cu A ductile, malleable, reddish-brown metallic element that is an excellent conductor of heat and electricity and is widely used for electrical wiring, water piping, and corrosion-resistant parts, either pure or in alloys such as brass and bronze. Symbol Cu A reddish-brown, easily shaped metallic element that is an excellent conductor of heat and electricity. It is widely used for electrical wiring, water piping, and rust-resistant parts, either in its pure form or in alloys such as brass and bronze. Atomic number 29. See Periodic Table. See Note at element.
copper. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds). a. a malleable ductile reddish metallic element occurring as the free metal, copper glance, and copper pyrites: used as an electrical and thermal conductor and in such alloys as brass and bronze. Symbol Cu A reddish-brown, easily shaped metallic element that is an excellent conductor of heat and electricity. It is widely used for electrical wiring, water piping, and rust-resistant parts, either in its pure form or in alloys such as brass and bronze. Atomic number 29. See Periodic Table. See Note at element.
noun. 1  a malleable ductile reddish metallic element occurring as the free metal, copper glance, and copper pyrites: used as an electrical and thermal conductor and in such alloys as brass and bronze. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3
Copper is a chemical element with symbol Cu (from Latin: cuprum) and atomic number 29. It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity. Pure copper is soft and malleable; a freshly exposed surface has a reddish-orange color. It is used as a conductor of heat and electricity, a building material, and a constituent of various metal alloys.
Pieces of copper. The definition of copper is of a reddish-brown, stretchable and metallic element, or something that is reddish-brown in color. An example of copper used as an adjective is in the phrase copper hair, which means reddish-brownish hair. copper-Computer Definition. A reddish-brown metallic element that is highly malleable, ductile, corrosion-resistant, and is an excellent conductor of electricity and heat. Only silver is a better conductor of electricity at room temperature. Copper is extensively used in electrical cables
1 a malleable ductile reddish metallic element occurring as the free metal, copper glance, and copper pyrites: used as an electrical and thermal conductor and in such alloys as brass and bronze. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3 
Definition of COPPER. 1. : a common reddish metallic element that is ductile and malleable and is one of the best conductors of heat and electricity — see element table. 2. : a coin or token made of copper or bronze. 3. chiefly British: a large boiler (as for cooking). Medical Definition of COPPER. : a common reddish metallic element that is ductile and malleable and one of the best conductors of heat and electricity—symbol Cu; see element table. — cop·pery \ˈkaep-(ˈkäp-)ə\ rē. adjective