A hybrid organism shows a third phenotype --- not the usual dominant one & not the recessive one ... but a third, different phenotype. With incomplete dominance we get a blending of the dominant & recessive traits so that the third phenotype is something in the middle (red x white = pink).
A snapdragon is an example of an incomplete dominance because when  a snapdragon plant having red flowers is crossed with another plant  having white flowers, all F1 plants … bear red flowers but in F2  generation, the plant population segregates in to 1 red: 2 pink :  1 white flowered plants ratio.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: Incomplete dominance is a form of intermediate inheritance in which one allele for a specific trait is not completely expressed over its paired allele. This results in a third phenotype in which the expressed physical trait is a combination of the dominant and recessive phenotypes. Incomplete genetic dominance is similar to, but different from co-dominance.
Incomplete dominance occurs when the heterozygous phenotype for a trait is a combination of the homozygous recessive and homozygous dominant. Examples: Incomplete dominance ca … n be seen in snapdragon flower color.
Incomplete dominance is where the phenotype of the heterozygote is intermediate to both the heterozygotes. The classic example of this phenomenon is pink snapdragons. If you c … ross red and white snapdragons, you get pink snapdragons, because neither the red or white allele is dominant to the other.
Dominance is a form of inheritance in which only one allele of a gene expresses itself in a heterozygous condition whereas incomplete dominance is a form of intermediate in … heritance in which one allele for a specific trait is not completely dominant over the other allele. This results in a combined phenotype.
Incomplete dominance occurs when the heterozygous phenotype for a trait is a combination of the homozygous recessive and homozygous dominant. Examples: 1  Incomplete dominance can be seen in snapdragon flower color.