All passport applicants 16yrs and older are required by the Passport agency to apply for a new adult passport which will be valid for 10 years. Passport applicants under the age of 16yrs would apply with the consent of both parents for a child passport which will be valid for 5 years. Either parent can sign for the child passport book as their legal guardian due to the child being under age, and considered a minor. In the signature section of the passport book, the mother or father will print the child's name and sign their own name next to it.
Passports for children. All Canadian children, from newborns to age 16, require their own passport to travel. Children may only be issued a passport with a maximum validity of 5 years. A child’s passport remains valid until it reaches its expiry date, even after the child turns 16.
Step 6. Together with the other parent, bring your child, and the envelope with all the materials, to a passport acceptance facility or passport agency. If the other parent cannot appear, he or she must fill out a notarized Form DS-3033, Statement of Consent for you to bring with you. The consent must be less than three months old. Step 7. Sign Form DS-11 in front of the Passport Agent when instructed, and submit all documentation and payments to him. The primary difference between renewing a child's passport and an adult's is that the child must appear in front of a passport agent, with his parents and with evidence of parental custody.
Acquiring or renewing a child's passport is no walk in the park. Over the past few years, new requirements have been added in an effort to combat child abduction and trafficking. The new requirements mean more work for parents to acquire passports for their children. The parent(s) or guardian(s) who are applying for the child's passport must submit photo ID if the child does not have one. Acceptable identification document is an undamaged passport or valid driver's license.
The first thing you need to know is that your child must apply in person with both parents or guardians (see special cases below). There is no renewal of a passport by mail for minors so children under 16 whose current passports have expired or are near the expiration date must apply in person as if for the first time. The parent(s) or guardian(s) who are applying for the child's passport must submit photo ID if the child does not have one. Acceptable identification document is an undamaged passport or valid driver's license.
Step 2. Place in the envelope the child's previously undamaged U.S. passport, along with proof of your relationship with her. The following documents, which must contain both parents' names, are acceptable as proof: the child's U.S. or foreign certified birth certificate, a report of birth abroad, or an adoption decree. The primary difference between renewing a child's passport and an adult's is that the child must appear in front of a passport agent, with his parents and with evidence of parental custody.
She was issued a passport to enter the United States but since then I have ... Parental consent for minor child's name change on passport Question: I legally changed the name of my minor child, and need to get his name changed on his passport. Both me and his father (now divorced) are listed ... 
1 Notarized Parental Consent, Form DS-3053, for each parent not present at the time of application; If neither parent is present, a notarized statement signed by both parents authorizing a third party to renew the child’s passport must be presented to the Consulate; 2  Facial development photos. Should one parent have sole legal authority to apply for a minor passport, a court order granting sole custody to the applying parent or a certified copy of the other parent’s death certificate must be presented at the time of application.
A third party may apply for a passport for the minor with a signed, notarized written statement or affidavit from both parents or guardians authorizing a third party to apply for the minor. Each statement must be accompanied by a photocopy of the parents' or guardians' identification. The parent(s) or guardian(s) who are applying for the child's passport must submit photo ID if the child does not have one. Acceptable identification document is an undamaged passport or valid driver's license.
My former spouse is not involve in my children lives, however I need passports for them. Yes. Under federal laws, both parents are required to give consent for children under the age of 16 yrs when applying for a passport. Only one parent's consent is needed for a passport applicant that is either 16 or 17 years old. Either parent can sign for the child passport book as their legal guardian due to the child being under age, and considered a minor. In the signature section of the passport book, the mother or father will print the child's name and sign their own name next to it.