In the late 1950s, the concept of the halo vest was first described. This technique is based on the attachment of the halo to a device worn around the patient's torso, rather than equipment attached to a hospital bed, to provide the needed force to immobilize the cervical spine.
Causes. Cervical spondylitic myelopathy is caused by degenerative changes that take place in the cervical spine and put pressure on the spinal cord. Arthritis, termed cervical spondylosis, causes the shape of the vertebrae to change. The facet joints enlarge and the spinal canal narrows.
1 Initially, the patient may have some difficulty with balance after having their cervical spine fixed in place with a halo vest. 2  This problem will rapidly improve as the patient becomes more accustomed to the device. 3  The patient may have some difficulty sleeping in the initial period after application of the
Causes. Cervical spondylitic myelopathy is caused by degenerative changes that take place in the cervical spine and put pressure on the spinal cord. Arthritis, termed cervical spondylosis, causes the shape of the vertebrae to change. The facet joints enlarge and the spinal canal narrows.
The cervical spine (neck) is made up of a series of connected bones called vertebrae. The bones protect the spinal canal that runs through the vertebrae and carries the spinal cord. The spinal cord contains nerves that give strength and sensation to the arms and legs, and provide bowel and bladder control.
Advantages of the halo immobilization include precise cervical spine positioning, effective immobilization, ease of application, success in maintaining reduction, less interference with mandibular function when compared with other types of orthosis, and the ability to allow early mobilization of the patient [ 30 ].
The advantages of the halo vest include precise positional control and solid external stabilization of the cervical spine, ease of application, a low complication rate, minimal patient discomfort, and early patient mobilization.