The male parts of the flower are called the stamens and are made up of the anther at the top and the stalk or filament that supports the anther. The female elements are collectively called the pistil. The top of the pistil is called the stigma, which is a sticky surface receptive to pollen. The bottom of the pistil contains the ovary and the narrowed region in between is called the style. The male contribution or pollen is produced in the anther, and seeds develop in the ovary. 
The style leads to the ovary that contains the female egg cells called ovules. The male parts are called stamens and usually surround the pistil. The stamen is made up of two parts: the anther and filament. The anther produces pollen (male reproductive cells). The filament holds the anther up.
6 steps of pollination. 1. Pollen is transferred from the anther to the stigma. 2. Once the pollen is on the stigma pollen tubes begin to grow. 3. Sperm travel down pollen tubes, into the ovule, and fertilizes the eggs. 4. Once fertilized, the ovules become seeds in the fruit. 5
Gynoecium. The gynoecium, composed of a pistil or pistils (or carpels, as they are also sometimes called), lies in the very middle of the flower. The top of the pistil, where pollen grains land, is called the stigma and the shaft leading down into the ovary is called the style. 
The stamen is the male reproductive system of a plant, while the pistil is the female reproductive system. These parts help the pistil's ovary to produce seeds. The seed … s will then go on to continue that species of plant. 12 people found this useful. 
Petal: The parts of a flower that are often conspicuously colored. Stamen: The pollen producing part of a flower, usually with a slender filament supporting the anther. Anther: The part of the stamen where pollen is produced. Pistil: The ovule producing part of a flower. The ovary often supports a long style, topped by a stigma. The mature ovary is a fruit, and the mature ovule is a seed. Stigma: The part of the pistil where pollen germinates. 
The female part is the pistil. The pistil usually is located in the center of the flower and is made up of three parts: the stigma, style, and ovary. The stigma is the sticky knob at the top of the pistil. It is attached to the long, tubelike structure called the style. The male parts are called stamens and usually surround the pistil. The stamen is made up of two parts: the anther and filament. The anther produces pollen (male reproductive cells). The filament holds the anther up.
The male parts of the flower are called the stamens and are made up of the anther at the top and the stalk or filament that supports the anther. The female elements are collectively called the pistil. The top of the pistil is called the stigma, which is a sticky surface receptive to pollen. The bottom of the pistil contains the ovary and the narrowed region in between is called the style. The male contribution or pollen is produced in the anther, and seeds develop in the ovary. The base of the female portion of the flower containing the ovules which become seeds. Perfect flower. Perfect flowers contain both the male parts and female parts within a single flower structure.
Pistil. the reproductive organ of a flower. The pistil, which is located in the center of the flower, typically consists of a hollow and enlarged inferior part—the ovary, a slender and usually cylindrical style or a stylodium, and a stigma. The stigma usually crowns the style or stylodia. , the central structure around which are arranged the stamens, the petals, and the sepals. The pistil is usually called the female reproductive organ of a flowering plant, although the actual reproductive structures are microscopic. The pistil has a bulbous base (the ovary) containing the ovules, which develop into seeds after fertilization of egg cell(s) in the ovule. A pistil is composed of one or more highly modified leaves (carpels), each containing one or more ovules