It looks like it will stay polite in UAE but there's definitely more pressure on the emirs to democratise. Bahrain, where there's big trouble at the moment, is not a part of the UAE. Just to be safe, keep across the news and current events, and maybe call your friend in the UAE to ask for advice on safety. I have been there twice and each time it was fascinating. The food is to die for and the hotels are some of the best in the World. Most residents of Dubai are insanely wealthy and you can tell this the second you step of the airplane.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Dubai is about as safe as it gets. I am a fair skinned, Western girl and I have never had any concerns in Dubai. I am more afraid of riding the tube in London then anything any Dubai. A lot of Westerners go to to Dubai to shop. I am due to travel to Dubai in three weeks. Feeling nervous and anxious because of the recent terrorist attempts in Britain.
I love Oman for how “authentic” it is, while there’s something indescribable I like about the UAE. I’ve received a lot of emails and comments from readers lately that are heading to the UAE, and there are a few questions I get more than any others, which I figured I’d respond to here. The UAE and the entire Middle East is prohibited in my own opinions. I always wanted to go to Dubai but man. DXB is a stupid idea bro. Because of the (insert evil voice) Sharia Law and the terrorists so you shouldn’t go there.
Respect Customs. Tourists need to respect the customs and people of Dubai. Only restaurants and clubs inside hotels and resorts serve alcohol, and drinking in public is prohibited. Travelers visiting during Ramadan should not eat, drink or smoke during daylight hours. Historians know very little about Dubai’s ancient roots. Recorded history begins in the 1800s, when the Maktoum Family led approximately 800 members of the Bani Yas tribe to the mouth of a creek in 1833.
Abu Dhabi and Dubai are only about 60-75 minutes apart by car, depending on where in town you are. For first time visitors, I recommend checking them both out, time permitting. Both cities have their pros. Big picture, I tend to think Abu Dhabi is a bit more authentic, while Dubai is all about the glitz/glam. The UAE and the entire Middle East is prohibited in my own opinions. I always wanted to go to Dubai but man. DXB is a stupid idea bro. Because of the (insert evil voice) Sharia Law and the terrorists so you shouldn’t go there.
British holidaymakers have ranked Dubai alongside Mexico, South Africa and Jamaica as the countries they feel the least safe in, a poll by a UK-based online travel agency has found. “There’s a stigma attached to certain destinations which put tourists off going there, particularly with the likes of South Africa and Dubai,” he said in a statement.” Britons obviously feel more at ease when holidaying in countries that are a little closer to home.”.
Purely in terms of staying entertained, I do think Dubai is more interesting. That being said, Abu Dhabi is quickly trying to catch up with Dubai in terms of having the biggest of everything. After all, they basically funded Dubai, and are kind of jealous now. The UAE and the entire Middle East is prohibited in my own opinions. I always wanted to go to Dubai but man. DXB is a stupid idea bro. Because of the (insert evil voice) Sharia Law and the terrorists so you shouldn’t go there.
Tourists should take care to abide by local laws and customs when they travel to Dubai. Here's a list of what not to do in Dubai: Drinking: Drinking or being drunk in public is not tolerated and the legal drinking age is 21. you should only drink in a hotel. Public displays of affection: Holding hands, kissing or gets cosy with your other half could lead to arrest and imprisonment.
ladygaga (by the way, love your music, but who knew you lived in Tewkesbury!). Dubai, Abu Dhabi and the other emirates are possibly the most politically stable places in the region. Emiratis are lucky to enjoy free healthcare, free education, generous subsidies on life's essentials, and a high standard of living. I have been there twice and each time it was fascinating. The food is to die for and the hotels are some of the best in the World. Most residents of Dubai are insanely wealthy and you can tell this the second you step of the airplane.
· just now. Report Abuse. UAE is a free country, nobody will ask you if your a gay or not. about sharing a room with your bf. yes you can share in one room, physically your both looks like the same. all hotels in dubai they allowed at least two in same gender to stay in one room. Lucy · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. But the easiest answer, I guess, would be: total ignorance. In a place like Dubai, you will have ABSOLUTELY no issues as a gay couple, as long as you don't do any public display of affection.