1 Begin with your heat on low and water to just cover the bottom of your pan. 2  Add the fat and allow it to start rendering slowly. 3  Using your wooden spoon, lift up any porky bits that are sticking to the bottom and stir frequently. 4  Continue stirring. 5  Do not raise the heat because you are bored. 1 Roast sweet potatoes. 2  Begin with your heat on low and water to just cover the bottom of your pan. 3  Add the fat and allow it to start rendering slowly. 4
Cracklins are not the same as pork rinds or pork skins which are made from just the skin of the hog (see sidebar at right). Cracklins are the skin with the layer of fat beneath. Cracklins are deeply woven in Southern culture, especially among African American and Mexican immigrants. 
Unless you like chewy cracklins it is better to over cook than to under cook for a crunchy texture. Try adding some of these cracklins to your breakfast gravy in place of sausage and watch the eyes light up around the table. Unless you have a very large skillet, you will need to cook the pork belly in portions. Add pork belly and fry, stirring often, until golden brown (about 50 minutes). Add additional oil as needed to prevent the pork belly from sticking. 4. Increase heat to 375 degrees F. and continue cooking until the pork belly starts making a crackling, popping sound. Continue cooking another 5 minutes.
Regan Breaux shows how he cooks pork cracklins. Cracklins are a Cajun tradition in South Louisiana. This was shot for finding flavors.com at the Voice of the Wetlands festival in Houma, La. 1  Travel & Events. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
To make cracklins you use a cut of pork that has the pork skin, pork fat and pork meat all attached. Pork Rinds, on the other hand, use only the pork fat. Virtually any piece of pork that has skin or fat attached to it can be used to make cracklins. Bring the water to a boil. Place the pork pieces in the water and keep a strong fire going. The water will dissolve the fat and also evaporate leaving the pork pieces to cook in their own melted grease (lard). Step 9Fry the pieces at 250 degrees until light and golden brown approximately 1 hour per 10 pounds. Set aside to cool
My first attempt at cracklins. After a long hunt, I was able to find some raw pork belly with the skin on, and could finally whip up a batch of cracklins of my own. They turned out great, but were just a little chewy still, so a quick dip in the microwave cooked the remaining fat out, and crisped them right up. 
Directions. Heat the hog lard in a large, deep, heavy pot. Add the pork fat pieces, stirring to prevent sticking. When the cracklins start to float in the oil and are getting brown (this can take a long time), remove with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. Season, to taste, with salt. When cool, store in an airtight container.
Step 7. To make cracklins, the pork meat will be cut with the skin, fat and some meat attached. Old Cajuns generally used ¾ x ¾ inch thick pieces. As you will be cooking with water and letting the cracklins cook in their own grease, make sure that your pot size fits the amount of meat being cooked. Bring the water to a boil. Place the pork pieces in the water and keep a strong fire going. The water will dissolve the fat and also evaporate leaving the pork pieces to cook in their own melted grease (lard). Step 9Fry the pieces at 250 degrees until light and golden brown approximately 1 hour per 10 pounds. Set aside to cool
How to make poultry skin cracklins. 1) Remove the skins from your turkey, chicken, or duck. Turkey skins are thin with little fat underneath, chickens have a bit more subcutaneous fat, and duck has a lot of fat. Cut the skins into squares or strips about 1 long and 1/2 wide. Like much else on the chicken, skins are mostly water, not fat. There is a lot of fat in chicken skin, and a layer of fat underneath, and skins are packed with flavor and it's a doggone shame to chuck them out, especially since they are so easy to make.