1 To do this, open any Office 2010 program, click File, and then click Help. 2  The Office version is displayed next to the Version number. 3  Close all Office 2010 programs. 4  Click Start, type cmd in the Start Search box, and then press Enter.
Excel showing Non commercial use-Unlicensed product-Office 365 for business. When ever I am opening the Excel workbook in office 365, it is getting stuck and showing Excel(non commercial use)(unlicensed product). I m using my work system and it is difficult as it happens...
Thank you. This morning when I started my computer office also start saying Unlicensed Product. I already check what you said to Ursulla and under My Account there is not the text Product Activated. In my case there is not a issue to save my documents, but I am wonder why I have this message.
1 Determine whether the computer has the 32-bit or 64-bit version of Office 2010 installed. 2  To do this, open any Office 2010 program, click File, and then click Help. 3  The Office version is displayed next to the Version number.
If your copy of Office Professional Plus shows the message Unlicensed Product in its title bar or Product Activation required in its Help screen, your installation lacks the proper authorization to run, either because your system administrator unlicensed it or never added it to the subscription account.
If your copy of Microsoft Office 2010 reports itself as unlicensed when you attempt to use it, your problem may stem from one of several kinds of licensing errors.
All access, word, excel, outlook is saying Unlicensed Product, can't do anything. I have a lot of stuff in there. I pay $12.00 per month to have it on my computer, been doing this for 12 months now, first time of having a problem. Can any one help? thanks.
Why is MS Office 2010 which I purchased in September of 2010 saying it is an unlicensed product and will not allow me to save? I cannot do any work.
Microsoft Outlook Unlicensed... Published (2011-01-22 02:04:00). I just upgraded my microsoft office home and student to home and business, the download and install seemed to go fine, but my Outlook is still saying that it is an unlicensed product and I'm therefore not able to send or reply to any mail.