In GAO visits to commercial preparers, paid preparers often prepared returns that were incorrect, with tax consequences that were sometimes significant. Their work resulted in unwarranted extra refunds of up to almost $2,000 in 5 instances, while in 2 cases they cost the taxpayer over $1,500.
A PTIN must be obtained by all enrolled agents, as well as all tax return preparers who are compensated for preparing, or assisting in the preparation of, all or substantially all of any U.S. federal tax return, claim for refund, or other tax form submitted to the IRS except the following:
A Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN) is a number issued by the IRS to paid tax return preparers. It is used as the tax return preparer’s identification number and, when applicable, must be placed in the Paid Preparer section of a tax return that the tax return preparer prepared for compensation. There is an initial fee of $64.25 and an annual renewal fee of $63.00.
Our objectives were to determine (1) what the characteristics were of tax returns done by paid preparers, (2) what government regulation exists for paid tax return preparers, and (3) what specific issues taxpayers might encounter in using paid preparers.
In 2007 and 2008, over 80% of all federal individual income tax returns were prepared by paid tax preparers or by taxpayers using tax preparation software. The exact number of paid preparers is unknown, but the IRS estimates that it may be as high as 1.2 million.
1 103,521 (19 percent) preparer identification numbers were used to prepare 881,594 paper tax returns with an attached administrative exception form. 2  This is 13 percent of all paper tax returns, or 1 percent of all individual tax returns, prepared by preparers in Calendar Year 2011.
• In our site visits, paid preparers often prepared returns that were incorrect, with tax consequences that were sometimes significant. Their work resulted in unwarranted extra refunds of up to almost $2,000 in 5 instances, while in 2 cases they cost the taxpayer over $1,500.
If you pay someone to prepare your tax return, the IRS urges you to choose that preparer wisely. Taxpayers are legally responsible for what’s on their tax return even if it is prepared by someone else.
1 Any paid preparer who prepares and files more than 10 returns for clients must file the returns electronically, unless the client opts to file a paper return. 2  More than 1 billion individual tax returns have been safely and securely processed since the debut of electronic filing in 1990.