Description. Dill has a bouquet that is aromatic and somewhat sweet. It is not a hot herb, like red chili peppers; rather, dill provides a delicate taste sensation. The dill plant grows to a height of 8-30 inches. The leaves are feathery and fernlike. The plant is a dark sea green color, with yellow flowers. 
Dill is also one of the few herbs used in the cooking of the Baltic states, where chopped dill is a frequent decoration on various foods (e. g. , boiled potatoes), similar to the use of parsley and chives in other European countries. Fresh dill leaves (dillweed) is a kind of. Therefore, when dill is asked for by an Indian recipe, it is advisable to reduce the amount of dill by about 30 to 50%, unless the book was explicitly written for Westerners. Most imported dill stems from Egypt, other Mediterranean countries or Eastern Europe.
It is also popular in summer to drink fermented milk (curds, kefir, yoghurt, or buttermilk) mixed with dill (and sometimes other herbs). In the same way, prepared dill is used as a topping for boiled potatoes covered with fresh butter – especially in summer when there are so-called new, or young, potatoes. In Serbia, dill is known as mirodjija and is used as an addition to soups, potato and cucumber salads and French fries. It features in the Serbian proverb бити мирођија у свакој чорби /biti mirodjija u svakoj čorbi/ (to be a dill in every soup) which corresponds to the English proverb to have a finger in every pie.
Although pickles are the food most commonly associated with dill, dill seed is often used on fish and cucumber dishes, and in potato salads. It is common in Eastern European c … uisines. To use dill seed, shake whole seeds into the dish being seasoned, or, for a stronger dill flavor, crush them lightly before using. Many herbalists recommend combining dill and fennel to ease colic in infants. Dill makes a useful addition to cough, cold and flu remedies, and is a mild diuretic. Dill increases milk production, and when taken regularly by nursing mothers. Dill tea, made with water or white wine, is a popular remedy for upset stomach.
1 Fresh and dried dill leaves are used as herbs. 2  In Vietnam, dill is the important herb in the dish cha ca. 3  Dill seed is used as a spice, with a flavor somewhat similar to caraway, but also resembling that of fresh or dried dill weed. 4  Dill oil can be extracted from the leaves, stems and seeds of the plant. 1 Dill seeds are used as a spice, and its fresh leaves, dill, and its dried leaves, dill weed, are used as herbs. 2  Fresh and dried dill leaves are used as herbs. 3
Dill seed is an ancient Indian spice. Its seeds, seed oil and whole plant is used in Indian culinary. It is mainly used in digestive disorders. It is also called as Indian Dill. 
Dill, as a medicine, has been used as a digestive herb and to induce sleep. Its use has also been claimed to improve vitality and brain power. The ancient Greeks believed that dill cured hiccups. Dill water, made from the Dill seeds, is used to soothe babies. 2. Anethum sowa (Indian Dill) : The Indian Dill is sometimes regarded as a variety of the European Dill. However, the ripe dried seeds of Indian Dill are longer but less broad than those of European Dill. Their dorsal ridges are paler in color. Composition of essential oil also var
2. Anethum sowa (Indian Dill) : The Indian Dill is sometimes regarded as a variety of the European Dill. However, the ripe dried seeds of Indian Dill are longer but less broad than those of European Dill. Their dorsal ridges are paler in color. Composition of essential oil also varies. 
In Iran, dill is known as shevid and is sometimes used with rice and called shevid-polo. It is also used in Iranian aash recipes, and is also called sheved in Persian. In India, dill is known as shepu (शेपू) in Marathi and Konkani, savaa in Hindi or soa in Punjabi. In Telugu, it is called Soa-kura (for herb greens). In Serbia, dill is known as mirodjija and is used as an addition to soups, potato and cucumber salads and French fries. It features in the Serbian proverb бити мирођија у свакој чорби /biti mirodjija u svakoj čorbi/ (to be a dill in every soup) which corresponds to the English proverb to have a finger in every pie.