There are three major types of rock: igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic. The rock cycle is an important concept in geology which illustrates the relationships between these three types of rock, and magma. Geology gives insight into the history of the Earth by providing the primary evidence for plate tectonics, the evolutionary history of life, and past climates.
What are geologists? They are trained scientists who understand the Earth's natural processes, manmade technologies, and the intersection of the two. They work with raw data to evaluate the causes and consequences of significant geological events and material discoveries. 
Here are some examples: Geologists study earth processes: Many processes such as landslides, earthquakes, floods and volcanic eruptions can be hazardous to people. Geologists work to understand these processes well enough to avoid building important structures where they might be damaged. They do similar work to locate and produce oil, natural gas and groundwater. Geologists study earth history: Today we are concerned about climate change. Many geologists are working to learn about the past climates of earth and how they have changed across time. This historical geology news information is valuable to understand how our current climate is changing and what the results might be
Geologists, compared to scientists engaged in other fields, are generally more exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab. An engineering geologist is employed to investigate geologic hazards and geologic constraints for the planning, design and construction of public and private engineering projects, forensic and post-mortem studies, and environmental impact analysis.
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth as well as the processes and history that have shaped it. An engineering geologist is employed to investigate geologic hazards and geologic constraints for the planning, design and construction of public and private engineering projects, forensic and post-mortem studies, and environmental impact analysis.
Many non-geologists often take geology courses or have expertise in geology that they find valuable to their fields; this is common in the fields of geography, engineering, chemistry, urban planning, environmental studies, among others. An engineering geologist is employed to investigate geologic hazards and geologic constraints for the planning, design and construction of public and private engineering projects, forensic and post-mortem studies, and environmental impact analysis.
Geologists in the Movies. Brad Pitt as a geologist. Geologists are ice-age cool, although they typically do not look like James Bond, being altogether too filthy to ever pass for a (ignorant Scot with no sense of grammar pretending to be a) suave Englishman. There has been one accurate portrayal of a geologist in a B-rated movie, however. However, it is a well-established fact that field geologists are magma-hot. The details not well known because field geologists tend to stay in the field most of the time, where only other field geologists get to see how hot they are.
Geology is the study of the Earth, the materials of which it is made, the structure of those materials, and the processes acting upon them. It includes the study of organisms that have inhabited our planet. They do similar work to locate and produce oil, natural gas and groundwater. Geologists study earth history: Today we are concerned about climate change. Many geologists are working to learn about the past climates of earth and how they have changed across time. This historical geology news information is valuable to understand how our current climate is changing and what the results might be
There are several types of careers that you can pursue with a Geology or Earth Science degree: * Environmental Geology: You can be involved in water and soil testing and remediation, assessment of sites for pollution types and amounts, clean-up of toxic chemicals from the water and/or soil.