updated. Collagen injections have been used for decades to treat minor imperfections in facial skin, including laugh lines, wrinkles, creases, crow’s feet, and acne scars. Collagen is also used to create fuller lips and cheeks and can be used to treat areas of the chest, back, and neck. Collagen treatment involves one or more injections of collagen into a specific area. Some patients find the injections slightly uncomfortable; especially injections performed on the lips or around the nose. A topical anesthetic can be applied to the injection area to minimize pain.
Introduction. Collagen injections give your skin a plumper, smoother appearance. Although collagen is the best known filler, there are many other substances doctors can use to plump up your skin, including fat from your own body and synthetic materials. 
Collagen Injections. Collagen injections give your skin a plumper, smoother appearance. Although collagen is the best known filler, there are many other substances doctors can use to plump up your skin, including fat from your own body and synthetic materials. Below you will find a detailed explanation of how collagen works, followed by a list of other injectable fillers your doctor may recommend. Because it is the primary component of the dermis, collagen acts as the support structure for the skin. The hypodermis is a layer of fat and connective tissue that contains larger blood vessels and nerves.
Collagen injections replenish the skin's natural collagen. By supplementing your skin's own collagen, injections help smooth facial lines and some types of scars. The natural beauty of your skin is enhanced as the contour of the support structure is restored. These products can come from cows (bovine) or human cells. 
Collagen injections have been used for decades to treat minor imperfections in facial skin, including laugh lines, wrinkles, creases, crow’s feet, and acne scars. Collagen treatment involves one or more injections of collagen into a specific area. Some patients find the injections slightly uncomfortable; especially injections performed on the lips or around the nose. A topical anesthetic can be applied to the injection area to minimize pain.
Collagen injections replenish the skin's natural collagen. The natural beauty of your skin is enhanced as the contour of the support structure is restored. Zyderm and Zyplast are collagen products gotten from cows that replace the collagen your skin loses over time. 
Collagen is a natural protein found in bone, cartilage, skin, and tendons; there are 27 different types of naturally occurring collagens in the body. Certain collagens found in skin tissue are essential for skin strength and elasticity. Collagen treatment involves one or more injections of collagen into a specific area. Some patients find the injections slightly uncomfortable; especially injections performed on the lips or around the nose. A topical anesthetic can be applied to the injection area to minimize pain.
Collagen Injection. (Soft Tissue Filling). A collagen injection is a cosmetic procedure that can soften some signs of aging on your face. As you get older, your face begins to lose some of its fullness and wrinkles usually appear. Human collagen or animal collagen may be used. Cosmoderm and Cosmoplast are collagen products made from human sources. Zyderm and Zyplast are made from cow proteins. The results of these injections may last up to four months. Newer products for cosmetic injection are being developed that may last longer.
Class: Soft tissue fillers. Collagen's cosmetic uses: Collagen injections are commonly used for lip augmentation. They can also be used to treat crow's feet, wrinkles and laugh lines, and to add volume to sunken areas of the face. Some facial plastic surgeons are using collagen fillers for liquid nose jobs. 