Mutations in the CASR gene can cause a condition called autosomal dominant hypocalcemia type 1, which is characterized by low levels of calcium in the blood (hypocalcemia). Some affected individuals also have a shortage of parathyroid hormone (hypoparathyroidism). 
Take this supplement with food to aid in absorption. In some calcium supplements based on calcium carbonate, Vitamin D is used as an addition to aid in absorption. Vitamin D is needed for the absorption of calcium from the stomach and for the functioning of calcium in the body. [3] [4] Calcium citrate is more easily absorbed (bioavailability is 2.5 times higher than calcium carbonate), easier to digest and less likely to cause constipation and gas than calcium carbonate.
In hypocalcemia, the calcium level in blood is too low. A low calcium level may result from a problem with the parathyroid glands, as well as from diet, kidney disorders, or certain drugs. Although most of the body's calcium is stored in bones, some circulates in the blood (see Overview of Calcium). About 40% of the calcium in blood is attached (bound) to proteins in blood, mainly albumin. Protein-bound calcium acts as a reserve but has no active function in the body.
Calcium carbonate is the most common and least expensive calcium supplement. It can be difficult to digest and causes gas in some people. Taking magnesium with it can help to prevent constipation. Calcium carbonate is 40% elemental calcium. 1000 mg will provide 400 mg of calcium. Vitamin D is needed for the absorption of calcium from the stomach and for the functioning of calcium in the body. [3] [4] Calcium citrate is more easily absorbed (bioavailability is 2.5 times higher than calcium carbonate), easier to digest and less likely to cause constipation and gas than calcium carbonate.
This test measures a substance called parathyroid hormone (PTH) in your blood. PTH is made by four tiny parathyroid glands in your neck. PTH circulates in your blood and is needed to regulate the level of calcium in your blood. Your heart, bones, nervous system, and kidneys need a normal calcium level in the blood to work the way they should. If your calcium level is too low, your parathyroid glands release PTH to get more calcium into your blood. If your calcium level is too high, your parathyroid glands stop producing PTH. Measuring the amount of PTH in your blood helps your healthcare provider find out the cause of an abnormal calcium level
Calcium seems to be safe for most people. Calcium can cause some minor side effects such as belching or gas. Taking too much calcium (over 2500 mg/day) might increase the risk of side effects. Some people shouldn't take calcium unless it is prescribed by their healthcare provider. 
Low total calcium (hypocalcemia). The most common cause of low total calcium is: 1  Low blood protein levels, especially a low level of albumin, which can result from liver disease or malnutrition, both of which may result from alcoholism or other illnesses. 2  Low albumin is also very common in people who are acutely ill. A urine calcium test may be ordered when someone has symptoms of kidney stones, such as a sharp pain in the person's side or back around the kidneys, pain that may progress to lower in the abdomen, and/or blood in the urine.
A blood calcium test is ordered to screen for, diagnose, and monitor a range of conditions relating to the bones, heart, nerves, kidneys, and teeth. The test may also be ordered if a person has symptoms of a parathyroid disorder, malabsorption, or an overactive thyroid. A urine calcium test may be ordered when someone has symptoms of kidney stones, such as a sharp pain in the person's side or back around the kidneys, pain that may progress to lower in the abdomen, and/or blood in the urine.
Parathyroid hormone is secreted by the parathyroid glands and is the most important regulator of calcium levels in the blood and within the bones. Alternative names for parathyroid hormone PTH; parathormone; parathyrin. Parathyroid hormone is mainly controlled by the negative feedback of calcium levels in the blood to the parathyroid glands. Low calcium levels in the blood stimulate parathyroid hormone secretion, whereas high calcium levels in the blood prevent the release of parathyroid hormone.