verb. To relegate is defined as to send or assign to a lower place or position. An example of to relegate is someone being demoted from restaurant manager to dish washer. -·gat·ed, -·gat·ing. 1  to exile or banish (someone) to a specified place. 2  to consign or assign to an inferior position: usually with to.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of relegate from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
relegate. verb rel·e·gate \ˈre-lə-ˌgāt\. Tweet. : to put (someone or something) in a lower or less important position, rank, etc. : to give (something, such as a job or responsibility) to another person or group. : to move (a sports team) to a lower position in a league. rel·e·gat·ed rel·e·gat·ing.
tr.v. rel·e·gat·ed, rel·e·gat·ing, rel·e·gates. 1. To consign to an inferior or obscure place, rank, category, or condition: an artist's work that is now relegated to storerooms; a group that has been relegated to the status of second-class citizens. 2. Calots are not permitted within the walls of the palace proper, and so I had had to relegate poor Woola to quarters in the stables where the royal thoats are kept.
The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
This is the British English definition of relegate. View American English definition of relegate. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for relegate. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent.
1 British English: relegate If a team that competes in a league is relegated, it is moved to a lower division because it finished at or near the bottom of its division at the end of a season.The coach relegated him to a place on the second team.ˈrɛlɪˌɡeɪt VERB. 
2. relegate-assign to a lower position; reduce in rank; She was demoted because she always speaks up; He was broken down to Sergeant. demote, kick downstairs, bump, break. assign, delegate, designate, depute-give an assignment to (a person) to a post, or assign a task to (a person). Calots are not permitted within the walls of the palace proper, and so I had had to relegate poor Woola to quarters in the stables where the royal thoats are kept.
: assign: as a: to assign to a place of insignificance or of oblivion: put out of sight or mind b: to assign to an appropriate place or situation on the basis of classification or appraisal c: to submit to someone or something for appropriate action: delegate d: to transfer (a sports team) to a lower ranking division. : to put (someone or something) in a lower or less important position, rank, etc. : to give (something, such as a job or responsibility) to another person or group. : to move (a sports team) to a lower position in a league. rel·e·gat·ed rel·e·gat·ing.
relegate verb [T]. › to put someone or something into a ​lower or less ​important ​rank or ​position: She ​resigned when she was relegated to a ​desk ​job. The ​story was relegated to the ​middle ​pages of the ​paper. › to put something or someone into a ​lower or less ​important ​rank or ​position: In the past when ​African-American men ​worked as ​sailors ​aboard ​ships, they were often relegated to ​jobs as ​cooks and ​stewards.