The Foreign & Commonwealth Office charge £30 to affix an Apostille to a document. Their postal service usually takes 2 to 3 weeks. We can arrange this for you for a fee of £70 per document (including the FCO fee of £30, and courier fees), and this usually takes 4 to 5 days. If you additionally require consular legalisation from a specific embassy, we can arrange this for you. Fixed Fee & Low Cost UK Legalisation. We normally charge a set fee of £60 per document/signature required to be attended to by the Notary Public. If further independent witnesses are required, we charge £5 per witness.
Cuba. Documents destined for use in Cuba must be translated into Spanish by a notarized translator. Both documents (the original and the translation) must be properly notarized by a commissioned notary public and certified by the Secretary of State in the same state where the notary is licensed. Please choose, , , or.
This fee does not include any additional costs charged by the Consulate or Embassy to legalize your documents. Please note that document legalization in Washington, D.C. and in Los Angeles is priced for two documents. Any additional documents is $95 each. In Los Angeles, we will travel up to two times to the Consulate. The cost to obtain an Apostille for the first document is $195.00 and each additional document is $95.00. If you have six or more documents, the cost for the Apostille drops to $75.00 each. Please call or Contact Us for an instant price quote. Please note some States have higher fees for expedited service (SEE BELOW).
To have a document authenticated: 1  The document must be either notarized by a DC notary public or signed by an authorized head of a DC government agency. 2  The cost is $15 per document, payable by check, money order or Visa or Master Card. 3  No cash will be accepted as payment for authentications. 1 The document must be either notarized by a DC notary public or signed by an authorized head of a DC government agency. 2  The Office of Notary Commissions and Authentications does not notarize documents.
We help customers obtain an Apostille or embassy legalization for their documents. An apostille or embassy legalization certifies the authenticity of documents issued in the country of origin, before they can be accepted by government and business establishments overseas. 
Check your document can be legalised. Pay online for the service. Complete the legalisation application form. Send your documents, application form, a blank A4-sized envelope and the payment confirmation page (which you’ll get after you pay online) to the relevant address. You get a UK public document ‘legalised’ by asking the UK government to confirm that a UK public official’s signature, seal or stamp on the document is genuine.
To have a document authenticated: 1  The document must be either notarized by a DC notary public or signed by an authorized head of a DC government agency. 2  The Office of Notary Commissions and Authentications does not notarize documents. 3  The cost is $15 per document, payable by check, money order or Visa or Master Card. 1
Get a document legalised. You get a UK public document ‘legalised’ by asking the UK government to confirm that a UK public official’s signature, seal or stamp on the document is genuine. You might need to do this if a local authority abroad has asked you to provide a document and they’ve said it must be
There are many situations in which a notary may be necessary, and many different services that a notary can offer. The cost of a notary will really depend upon the company, the amount of work that may have to be done, and other factors. 1  On average, a notary is going to anywhere from $0 to as much as $10. How much is it? 1  On average, a notary is going to anywhere from $0 to as much as $10. 2  Public companies such as FEDEx Kinkos and the UPS Store usually charge around $5 to $10 to have a single-page document notarized. 3  For example, SFBayNotary.com charges $5 per every notarized signature.