Starting next Wednesday, Empire's time slot will be taken over by American Idol, which expands to two hours, and unless Fox takes action, more than half of Empire's 18-49 audience will vanish from the network. The good news for Fox is that by the time Empire became an instant hit in January, the networks were late enough into this year's development cycle that the Empire clones—and yes, there will be Empire clones—won't arrive for another year. So Fox still has the field to itself until then.
The ratings reign of Empire's first season ends with a two-hour finale tonight. Photo: Fox. Fox is about to have the happiest and saddest day of its 2014-15 season. No, that day is not today, even though tonight marks the two-hour season finale to its breakout hit, Empire. The good news for Fox is that by the time Empire became an instant hit in January, the networks were late enough into this year's development cycle that the Empire clones—and yes, there will be Empire clones—won't arrive for another year. So Fox still has the field to itself until then.
Empire is as platinum as breakout television gets. Wednesday (8 p.m. ET/PT), Fox's midseason juggernaut is taking a triumphant bow in a two-hour finale. 'Empire' rides high as it heads to finale. Drop the microphone, because Empire is as platinum as television gets. The Fox show has proved to be a juggernaut, a modern Dynasty set in the hip-hop world starring Terrence Howard as the label boss and. Post to Facebook.
@EmpireFOX Season 2 returns Wednesday, September 23, 2015! #MarkYourCalendars #GameTimeBitches pic.twitter.com/hEtN5TfLBV. — Empire Writers (@EmpireWriters) May 29, 2015. Empire will be paired on Wednesdays in the fall with Fox’s new series Rosewood, starring Morris Chestnut. Rosewood takes the 8 p.m. spot, while Empire follows. While the first season of Empire only featured 12 episodes, more of the show is on the way in its second outing. The second, as Entertainment Weekly reported, will feature 18 episodes in two halves. 
Inside Bryshere 'Yazz the Greatest' Gray's Timbaland Team-Up. Gray's sweet but egotistical take on Empire's Hakeem Lyon has made him a rising star, and Hakeem's fictional single, Drip Drop, became the first season's breakout track. READ MORE. 
USA TODAY. 'Empire' has a solid foundation to build on. There's only one way to rebuild a network, and it's slowly, it's a show at a time, says Fox Television Group co-chairman Gary Newman. After finding footing with Gotham this fall, he and co-chairman Dana Walden put a giant marketing budget behind Empire. 'Empire' rides high as it heads to finale. Drop the microphone, because Empire is as platinum as television gets. The Fox show has proved to be a juggernaut, a modern Dynasty set in the hip-hop world starring Terrence Howard as the label boss and. Post to Facebook.
Fox fast-ordered some updated, more accurate numbers from Nielsen and both  Empire  and  Idol  went up a tenth of a point. What this means:  Empire  now ties ABC s  How to Get Away with Murder  as the highest-rated new show premiere this season. LOL@Terrence Howard's hair hahahahahahahahahaha. I hope Empire stays on for at least 2-3 years because I think it's gonna be a good show but I wouldn't be surprised if it didn't stay on long. That's good that the ratings were good for the first episode
Executive Producers Lee Daniels, Danny Strong and Ilene Chaiken share an inside look at EMPIRE, the hit show that took America by storm. This Special takes a look at EMPIRE’s critical acclaim, ratings success, social media fan-demonium, as well as the show’s impact on the music industry. Cookie and her cohorts decide to start their own record label, but it's off to a bumpy start when everyone has different visions for the new company. The Devils Are Here Season 2, Episode 1 Sep 23, 2015 Subscription. Still in federal lockup, Lucious is trying to run Empire from inside.