Rudi is a pet form (German, Hungarian, Slavic, and Spanish) of the name Rudolf (Czech, Dutch, English, German, Polish, and Scandinavian) as well as a pet form of the name Rudolph (English). Rudi is an infrequently used baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Rudi include Rudey, Rudie, Rudy, Ruedi, Raddy, Radha, Radhi, Rado, Radu, Radut, Raid, Raishard, Rajeat, Reath, Reddee, Reddey, Reddi, Reddie, Reddy, and Reta. [ 2 syll. ru-di, rud-i ] The baby boy name Rudi is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is R UW-Diy- †. Rudi is used predominantly in the German, Hungarian, Slavic, and Spanish languages, and it is derived from Germanic origins
In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Rudi Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Rudi has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Rudi to other names. Rudi is a diminutive (nickname) of Rudolf. Rudi falls into the animal name category. 
[ 2 syll. ru-di, rud-i ] The baby girl name Rudi is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced R UW-Diy- †. Rudi's language of origin is Germanic and it is predominantly used in English. The name Rudi means 'famous wolf'. Rudi is the feminine version of the African Rudo. Forms of the name include the English Rudie and the English Rudy. Rudi is an uncommon baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Rudi include Rudie, Rudy, Radha, Ratee, Ratey, Rati, Raty, Rayette, Reate, Redah, Redo, Reta, Retah, Retey, Rethy, Retta, Retti, Rheta, Rhetta, and Rhodee
Rudi is an uncommon first name for females but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#58849 out of 150436, Top 39%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Rudi for girls. Rudi has not been recorded in the list so far. Rudi /ru-di/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Rudi) is pronounced ROO-dee. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Rudi is famous wolf. Feminine of Rudy, from Rudolf (see Rudolph). Kreatif forms: Raydi, Redi, Ridi
Rudi /ru-di/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Rudi) is of Old German derivation, and the name Rudi means famous wolf. Rudi is a variant transcription of Rudolph (Old German): name of the red-nosed reindeer. Rudi is also a variant of Rudy. Kreatif forms: Redi, Rhyddi, Ridi. Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of the boy name Rudi and corresponding names. Popular alternative forms of Rudi (unlisted) are Rudy (#866 the previous year) , Rodolfo (#945) , Rudolph, Rudolf, Rolf, Raoul, Dolph and Rollo.
Rudi is an unusual first name for males but a very prominent last name for all people (#58849 out of 150436, Top 39%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of the boy name Rudi and corresponding names. Popular alternative forms of Rudi (unlisted) are Rudy (#866 the previous year) , Rodolfo (#945) , Rudolph, Rudolf, Rolf, Raoul, Dolph and Rollo.
German Meaning: The name Rudy is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Rudy is: Abbreviation of Rudolph: Famed wolf. American Meaning: The name Rudy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rudy is: Abbreviation of Rudolph: Famed wolf. The name Rudy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Rudy is: Abbreviation of Rudolph. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing.