Get a little sand in your soul in Destin, Ft. Walton Beach and Okaloosa Island, the Heart of Florida’s Emerald Coast. 
Sandestin, Florida, located to the east in Walton County, is a popular golf and beach resort. Further east along the coast are the master-planned community of Seaside, filming location of the 1998 movie The Truman Show; Grayton Beach, Florida; and Rosemary Beach, Florida. Located on Florida's Emerald Coast, Destin is known for its white beaches and emerald green waters. Originating as a small fishing village, it is now a popular tourist destination.
Destin. Stunning white beaches, challenging golf and world-famous fishing define the Emerald Coast city of Destin. Snuggled against the Gulf of Mexico in northwest Florida, Destin is rightfully famed for its sugar-white sands and emerald-hued waters. And due to its plentiful and always hungry underwater population, Destin is widely known as the world’s luckiest fishing village..
Overview. There are 13 public beach access points within the city limits of Destin. Eleven are city-owned facilities, one site is owned by the county and one site is owned by the state. Parking is limited at the city beach access points with the exception of June White Decker and the Shores at Crystal Beach. 
Distances to Airports. Distances (in miles) from the Hilton Sandestin Beach Resort to regional airports in the panhandle of Northwest Florida. PNS Pensacola International Airport Continental, Delta Airlines, American Airlines, United, U.S. Airways, AirTran (service to/from: Houston, Atlanta, Dallas/Ft. Serving the Hilton Sandestin Beach, Destin beach resorts, and the region surrounding the Northwest Florida panhandle with daily non-stop flights. Click here for more about Local Attractions & Area Companies near our Destin Beach Hotel.
(December 2013). Sandestin Golf and Beach Resort is a 2,400-acre (9.7 km 2) destination resort in Miramar Beach, Florida, United States, on Northwest Florida’s Gulf Coast. The resort is located between the Gulf of Mexico and the Choctawhatchee Bay, in Walton County. 
Destin Location Map. Destin is a city in Okaloosa County, along the Gulf coast of the Florida Panhandle. It sits at the end of a peninsula separating Choctawhatchee Bay from the Gulf of Mexico. Destin is part of the Emerald Coast of Florida, an area famous for its emerald-colored waters and white sand beaches. Use the controls to zoom or re-center this map of Destin, Florida.
Located between Pensacola and Panama City along North Florida’s glittering Gulf Coast, Fort Walton Beach offers visitors its powdery white beaches, emerald waters, enjoyable golf courses, and much more. Fort Walton Beach boasts all the fun of the major vacation spots, minus the fuss. Home to family-friendly resorts and attractions such as parks, museums and aquariums, it's not just the calm, green waters and cool, white sand that make this northwest Florida destination a family favorite.
Destin is a city located in Okaloosa County, Florida. It is a principal city of the Fort Walton Beach-Crestview-Destin, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area. Located on Florida's Emerald Coast, Destin is known for its white beaches and emerald green waters. Originating as a small fishing village, it is now a popular tourist destination.
RV Destination. CAMP GULF is the Destination RV Park of Northwest Florida-and for good reason! Located in Florida's panhandle, Destin offers beautiful beaches, fishing, boating, shopping, dining, golf and so much more.