Valet parking offered at a Burger King restaurant in Mexico City. Valet parking is a parking service offered by some restaurants, stores, and other businesses, particularly in North America. In contrast to self-parking, where customers find a parking space on their own, customers' vehicles are parked for them by a person called a valet. This service either requires a fee to be paid by the customer or is offered free of charge by the establishment.
That, unfortunately, is not at all how my first time using valet parking went. My friend was getting married at a swanky hotel, and when I pulled up to the drop-off zone, I realized I had no idea what to do. “Here is your quarter and nickel, dear sir. Thank you kindly.”. According to our research $2-$5 is pretty standard — that’s $2-$5 to the valet when you drop off your car and $2-$5 to the valet when you pick it up. All in all, look to tip between $4-$10 total for valet parking service. If you want better service, tip more than the standard when you drop off your car
An advantage of valet parking is that it is possible to pack more cars into a given physical space, in what is generally known as stack parking. The valet holds all the keys and can park the cars two or more deep, as he can move cars out of the way to free a blocked-in car. In contrast to self-parking, where customers find a parking space on their own, customers' vehicles are parked for them by a person called a valet. This service either requires a fee to be paid by the customer or is offered free of charge by the establishment.
A valet is usually an employee of the establishment, or an employee of a third party valet service. When there is a fee, it is usually either a flat amount or a fee based on how long the car is parked. It is customary in the United States to tip the valet who actually parks the car. In contrast to self-parking, where customers find a parking space on their own, customers' vehicles are parked for them by a person called a valet. This service either requires a fee to be paid by the customer or is offered free of charge by the establishment.
Hotels + Resorts. When you’re spending as much as $30 a day for hotel parking, tipping the valet each time he or she retrieves your car can seem like an unnecessary investment. By Amy Farley. When you’re spending as much as $30 a day for hotel parking, tipping the valet each time he or she retrieves your car can seem like an unnecessary investment.
Rates for valet parking insurance are based upon such factors as the type of business, whether it is operating in a private parking lot or on public property, and whether or not self-parking is an option. When you contact an independent agent, be sure to inquire about cost saving measures. 
People don't have to park their own cars when they valet park. Some restaurants have their valets park the expensive cars in front, in order to attract business. A valet will greet people when they arrive at an establishment, and either direct them or park their car for them. Valets park the cars of guests or visitors to restaurants, hotels, and other establishments. Adorable animal families that will make you aww. While the term valet can have a broad meaning and has historically referred to any type of personal attendant, in North America it generally refers to someone who provides parking services to drivers.