June Tabor sings The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face. The first time ever I saw your face. I thought the sun rose in your eyesm. And the moon and the stars were the gifts you gave. To the dark and the empty skies, my love, To the dark and the empty skies. . June Tabor sang The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face in 1999 on her Topic album. . Damien Barber and Mike Wilson sang The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face in 2011 on their CD. . They commented in their liner notes: From the pen of Ewan MacColl and the singing of Peggy Seeger.
+22 other releases. read more. The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face is a 1957 folk song written by political singer / songwriter Ewan MacColl for Peggy Seeger, who was later to become his wife. At the time the couple were lovers, although MacColl was married to someone else
Related Roberta Flack Links Official page Roberta Flack wiki The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face video Roberta Flack twitter Roberta Flack facebook. 
The version on the MacColl anthology. was sung by Peggy Seeger. The song was also covered by lots of singers, most famous amongst them Roberta Flack who had a #1 hit with it in 1972. Bert Jansch sang The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face in 1966 on his Transatlantic album. . June Tabor sang The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face in 1999 on her Topic album. . Damien Barber and Mike Wilson sang The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face in 2011 on their CD. . They commented in their liner notes: From the pen of Ewan MacColl and the singing of Peggy Seeger.
Matt Cardle sings First Time Ever I saw Your Face in week 5 of the X Factor. What did you think of his performance. Skippy thought he done a wicked job tonight, And you got to post a comment on this act .... Your Comments are welcome. If you want to download this song go to .... http://skippytv.yolasite.com/matt-car... The X Factor: Matt Cardle sings The First Time (Ever I Saw Your Face) - The X Factor Live show 5 -.
The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face won at the 1973 Grammys and Killing Me Softly with His Song won at the 1974 Grammys. She remains the only solo artist to have accomplished this feat, and only U2, who did it in 2001 with Beautiful Day and in 2002 with Walk On, has done it since. 
Ewan MacColl wrote The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face in 1957 for his then lover—and later wife—Peggy Seeger. It is said that he wrote and taught it to her over the telephone when she needed a song for a play she was cast for. . June Tabor sang The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face in 1999 on her Topic album. . Damien Barber and Mike Wilson sang The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face in 2011 on their CD. . They commented in their liner notes: From the pen of Ewan MacColl and the singing of 
After a minute was edited out of the track to trim it down to a radio-friendly four minutes, the Ewan MacColl song was issued as a single. The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face had a six-week run at number one on both the pop and adult contemporary charts while peaking at number four R&B in the spring of 1972. 
But I never forgot her or anything about her. We attended a roberta flack concert in washington dc and ever since then, whenever I heard the first note of the first time ever i saw your face my life would stop as I would remember the love we shared on april 13, 1972. Last october, fate or devine intervention reconnected us. The first time ever I saw your face I thought the sun rose in your eyes. \nAnd the moon and the stars were the gifts you gave to the dark and the endless skies.