Knee replacement surgery in India. The western world has grown very expensive for procedure like total knee replacement surgery. Fortunately, medical tourism in India is a great option for quality orthopaedic surgery for such patients. We encourage you to educate yourself about knee replacement surgery in India, benefits from the right kind of procedure,cost of knee replacement in India and then make an informed decision.
The cost of total knee replacement varies depending on age, type of surgery, brand of replacement, and other factors. In the United States, an uninsured patient can expect to … pay upwards of $45,000. In most other places in the world, the cost is far lower. Patients can take advantage of globalization and receive total knee replacement surgery for a low price in a number of destinations.
The following is a chart of the estimated cost of knee replacement around the world: Country Estimated Price (USD) United States $45,000-$60,000 Singapore $18,000-$22,000 Thailand $12,000-$14,000 Taiwan $9,000-$10,000 India $7,000-$11,000 Do not calculate cost when you go for a major surgery. In the United States, an uninsured patient can expect to … pay upwards of $45,000. In most other places in the world, the cost is far lower. Patients can take advantage of globalization and receive total knee replacement surgery for a low price in a number of destinations.
The cost of a total knee replacement in British Columbia will vary depending n a couple of factors like age, and where you get the surgery done. The total knee replacement sur … gery costs about $18,000. In the United States, an uninsured patient can expect to … pay upwards of $45,000. In most other places in the world, the cost is far lower. Patients can take advantage of globalization and receive total knee replacement surgery for a low price in a number of destinations.
Total knee replacement in India is done at recognized hospitals of Kerala at cost saving budget. Medical Treatment in USA/Europe (only Medical Treatment) = Medical Treatment in India (A tour to India + Medical Treatment + Savings With world-class medical care, equipment and facilities) in the same cost. 
Time and Cost. You would stay at the hospital for 4-5 days after total knee replacement and another ten to twelve days in India after you are discharged from the hospital. With advanced technology and improved techniques of the surgery, many surgeons prefer to operate both knees at the same time. We encourage you to educate yourself about knee replacement surgery in India, benefits from the right kind of procedure,cost of knee replacement in India and then make an informed decision.
The cost of knee replacement surgery in India is almost ¼ of the cost that in UK, US and other developed countries. #KneeReplacementSurgeryIndia, #KneeReplacement, knee replacement surgery India, cost knee replacement surgery India, low cost knee replacement surgery India, knee replacement surgery benefits India, knee replacement surgery types, knee replacement surgery risk, knee replacement surgery recovery.
Tour2india4health Group is one of the leading medical tourism companies in India providing knee replacement surgery in India. To get free no obligation Quote For Knee Replacement Surgery: Go to the Enquiry Form. #KneeReplacementSurgeryIndia, #KneeReplacement, knee replacement surgery India, cost knee replacement surgery India, low cost knee replacement surgery India, knee replacement surgery benefits India, knee replacement surgery types, knee replacement surgery risk, knee replacement surgery recovery.
The average hospital charge for a total knee replacement (TKR) in the United States is $49,500. A partial knee replacement (PKR) typically costs about 10 to 20 percent less than a TKR. The main reason is that the operation requires a shorter hospital stay. For example: an average of 2.3 days, compared to 3.4 days. The cost of a knee replacement can vary substantially, even within the same geographical area. The final hospital charge depends on many factors, including: 1  number of days spent in the hospital: This will vary depending on the type of knee replacement you have (total, partial, or bilateral).
The Healthcare Blue Book lists the average cost of a total knee replacement surgery as $22,354. This includes the price of the surgery, hospital services, and anesthesia. Al … though every hospital will charge it's own price for it. In the United States, an uninsured patient can expect to … pay upwards of $45,000. In most other places in the world, the cost is far lower. Patients can take advantage of globalization and receive total knee replacement surgery for a low price in a number of destinations.