1 Canola, olive, and peanut oils, and avocados are sources of monounsaturated fat. 2  Both types of unsaturated fats may help lower your blood cholesterol level when used in place of saturated fat in your diet. 3  Remember to be moderate in your intake of all types of fat. 1 Polyunsaturated oils are liquid at room temperature and in the refrigerator. 2  Common sources of polyunsaturated fat are safflower, sesame and sunflower seeds, corn and soybeans, many nuts and seeds, and their oils. 3  Monounsaturated oils are liquid at room temperature but start to solidify at refrigerator temperatures.
So, while polyunsaturated fats are definitely “good” and “healthy” and a key part of your fat intake and overall diet, it’s the essential fatty acids (and their ratio in your diet) that makes it so “good” and “healthy” in the first place. 
A polyunsaturated fat has two or more double bonds in its carbon chain. There are two main types of polyunsaturated fats: omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids. The numbers refer to the distance between the beginning of the carbon chain and the first double bond. Both types offer health benefits. For long-term health, some fats are better than others. Good fats include monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. Bad ones include industrial-made trans fats. Saturated fats fall somewhere in the middle.
Polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fat are both unsaturated fats. “Poly” means many unsaturated chemical bonds and “mono” means one unsaturated chemical bond. These unsaturated fats are often found in liquid vegetable oils. 1  Polyunsaturated oils are liquid at room temperature and in the refrigerator. 1 Polyunsaturated oils are liquid at room temperature and in the refrigerator. 2  Common sources of polyunsaturated fat are safflower, sesame and sunflower seeds, corn and soybeans, many nuts and seeds, and their oils. 3  Monounsaturated oils are liquid at room temperature but start to solidify at refrigerator temperatures.
Health Benefits. Both monounsaturated fats and polyunsaturated fats have distinct health benefits. There is evidence that both types of fats reduce LDL cholesterol levels in the blood when included in a diet low in saturated and trans fats, according to the AHA. Monounsaturated and Polyunsaturated Fat. Monounsaturated fats are made up of a chain of carbon with one pair of carbon molecules joined by a double bond. The more double bonds there are, the more solid the fat will be. Monounsaturated fats are generally liquid at room temperature, but turn slightly solid when chilled.
Monounsaturated fats are found in olive oil, peanut oil, canola oil, avocados, nuts and seeds. Polyunsaturated fats are found in many vegetable oils, including safflower, corn, sunflower, soy and cottonseed oils, as well as in nuts and seeds. Monounsaturated and Polyunsaturated Fat. Monounsaturated fats are made up of a chain of carbon with one pair of carbon molecules joined by a double bond. The more double bonds there are, the more solid the fat will be. Monounsaturated fats are generally liquid at room temperature, but turn slightly solid when chilled.
Olive oil is a source of unsaturated fat. Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats don't deserve the bad reputation of fat in general. These types are fat are actually a healthy part of your diet and should make up the majority of the fat you eat each day. Polyunsaturated Fat. Polyunsaturated fats, like monounsaturated fats, help lower your bad cholesterol level when you eat them instead of saturated or trans fats.
Fats. Fats and fatty acids are essential for your body! Although fats sometimes get a bad association, they play roles in almost all of the processes in your body, so some fat is needed in your diet everyday. Fatty acids are basic units of fat molecules, containing carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. They trigger lower blood/serum cholesterol as well as lower LDL and HDL production. You can find these fats in vegetable oils like corn, sesame, sunflower, safflower and soybean, as well as in fatty fish. These fats are usually liquid at room temperature. Omega-3 fatty acids are also polyunsaturated fats.