1 To delete an item from your Watch list, go to My eBay. 2  Click the check box next to an item in the Watch List section, and click Delete.. 3  To delete a saved search, go to My eBay and click Saved Searches under Lists. 4  Click More Actions next to a search, and click Delete Search.. Tip. 1  To delete an item from your Watch list, go to My eBay. 2  Click the check box next to an item in the Watch List section, and click Delete.. 3  To delete a saved search, go to My eBay and click Saved Searches under Lists. 4  Click More Actions next to a search, and click Delete Search..
How do I get rid of the recently viewed items section on my search page. You must be a registered user to add a comment. If you've already registered, sign in. Otherwise, register and sign in. 
For recently viewed items, you can save the item to your watch list, as well as view the seller's other items and view similar items. To remove your last three items and searches, click the Clear all link. If you would prefer to hide your recently viewed items and searches, you can disable this feature. Go to My eBay, and click the Preferences link in the left column. Scroll down to the General Preferences section, and click the Show link next to My eBay. Make your selections, and click the Apply button
For recently viewed items, you can save the item to your watch list, as well as view the seller's other items and view similar items. To remove your last three items and searches, click the Clear all link. If you would prefer to hide your recently viewed items and searches, you can disable this feature. Go to My eBay, and click the Preferences link in the left column. Scroll down to the General Preferences section, and click the Show link next to My eBay. Make your selections, and click the Apply button. 
Step 1. Navigate to the eBay sign-in page and log in to your account. Step 2. Go to the eBay homepage and scroll down to see your Recently Viewed list. Step 3. Click the left or right arrow to scroll through the items you've viewed. Step 4. Click Clear below an item to delete it from the Recently Viewed list. Tip. 1  To delete an item from your Watch list, go to My eBay. 2  Click the check box next to an item in the Watch List section, and click Delete.. 3  To delete a saved search, go to My eBay and click Saved Searches under Lists. 4  Click More Actions next to a search, and click Delete Search..
Once logged in, you will be returned to the eBay home page. 2. Scroll down the page to view the boxes containing your recently viewed items, recent search terms and eBay's recommendations based upon your recent views. 3. Locate the Clear All link under the box containing your most recently viewed item. Click this link. The page will refresh and the box containing your recently viewed items will be gone. 4. Locate the Clear Searches link on the same page if you want to delete your recent search activity as well. Click the link and wait while the page reloads and removes your search history. 
You can view your recently viewed items on any search results page in the lower left-hand column. You can also save items to your Watching list by clicking the Watch this item button on the listing page. 
- Click green Follow button for any one of the items from the Suggestions for you at the right. - This will add the search in your Interests, click on My feed tab-like option again to go to the My feed page. - Now, the My feed page will show the sections for Recent searches & Recently Viewed items. It's in an odd place but I found it. 1. Click on ebay just under your sign in name. 2. Click on Featured (yeah real obvious here... sheesh!). 3. Scroll down to the Recently Viewed portion (down past Recent Searches). 4. Look for the Clear or See All at the bottom of the items shown. 5.
On your eBay home page, find your Recently Viewed items box. Click Clear to remove all the items. Even though your recent searches don't show the exact items you've viewed, they may give clues about the items or your plans. To delete searches, find the Recent Searches box and click Clear.