Pancreas. The pancreas is a glandular organ that produces a number of hormones essential to the body. It forms an integral part of the digestive system. The pancreas is located below and behind the stomach, in the curve of the duodenum, which is a part of the small intestine. The pancreas secretes fluids that help break down food in the small intestine, along with bile and other fluids that aid the metabolism of fats and proteins. The pancreas is also critical to the production of insulin and glucagon, which regulate glucose levels in the blood. If the pancreas stops producing insulin, this leads to diabetes and a number of associated health issues. Other problems that concern the pancreas include pancreatic cancer.
Front View of the Pancreas. The pancreas is about 6 inches long and sits across the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is on the right side of the abdomen and is connected to the duodenum (the first section of the small intestine) through a small tube called the pancreatic duct. The narrow end of the pancreas, called the tail, extends to the left side of the body.
A. The pancreas is about six inches long and sits across the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is on the right side of the abdomen and is connected to the duodenum (the first section of the small intestine) through a small tube called the pancreatic duct. The pancreas produces insulin, which helps move nutrients, especially sugar, into the cells of the body's tissues
Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level. These grape-like cell clusters produce important hormones that regulate pancreatic secretions and control blood sugar. Fast facts on the pancreas. Here are some key points about the pancreas. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  The pancreas is located in the abdomen and is a gland organ. 2  It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. 3  The pancreas is a 6 to 10 inch organ and is located behind the stomach
1 It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. 2  The pancreas is a 6 to 10 inch organ and is located behind the stomach. 3  It is fish shaped and extends horizontally across the abdomen. These grape-like cell clusters produce important hormones that regulate pancreatic secretions and control blood sugar. Fast facts on the pancreas. Here are some key points about the pancreas. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  The pancreas is located in the abdomen and is a gland organ. 2  It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. 3  The pancreas is a 6 to 10 inch organ and is located behind the stomach
1 The pancreas is located in the abdomen and is a gland organ. 2  It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. These grape-like cell clusters produce important hormones that regulate pancreatic secretions and control blood sugar. Fast facts on the pancreas. Here are some key points about the pancreas. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  The pancreas is located in the abdomen and is a gland organ. 2  It is an important part of the digestive system, producing enzymes and hormones that help break down foods. 3  The pancreas is a 6 to 10 inch organ and is located behind the stomach
Anatomy of the Pancreas. The pancreas is located behind the stomach in the upper left abdomen. It is surrounded by other organs including the small intestine, liver, and spleen. It is spongy, about six to ten inches long, and is shaped like a flat pear or a fish extended horizontally across the abdomen.
The pancreas is a gland that sits behind your stomach in the upper abdomen and helps with digestion. It produces enzymes that are secreted into the small intestine, digesting protein, fat, and carbohydrates. The pancreas also produces insulin to help regulate blood sugar (glucose), the body's main source of energy. 
The normal pancreas. The pancreas is an organ located behind the stomach. It is shaped a little bit like a fish with a wide head, a tapering body, and a narrow, pointed tail. In adults it is about 6 inches long but less than 2 inches wide. 