If you have no melanin in the front part of your iris, you have blue eyes. An increasing proportion of the yellow melanin, in combination with the black melanin, results in shades of colors between brown and blue, including green and hazel. And green is due to a rare mutation. Blue eyes and brown hair is also rare.
Best Answer: Hi! I'm German and I can tell you that neither is more abundant over here in Germany! The people here have all kinds of color eyes: blue, green, brown, grey, blue-grey, green-grey etc. It has nothing to do with the race, but more with the genes what color eyes you're born with:).
In Iceland it is said that 80% of people have blue or green eyes. Green eyes are more common in Icelandic females than in males. One study found that 17% of the women studied had green eyes compared to only 8% of the males. Similar results were found in a Dutch study. Green eyes are very rare in males worldwide.
Sweden, Norway and Denmark all have high percentages of light eyed people. Also Finland and Iceland are extremely light with almost 90% of them having light eyes (green, grey and blue). Other ''northern'' countries like The Netherlands, Scotland and Germany have light eyed peoples too.
Europeans with green eyes generally come from Celtic or German ancestry. Green eyes are common in Ireland, where they are commonly paired with fiery red hair. Green eyes can be found in many places including the United States, throughout Europe, South Asia, South America and Northern Africa.
Green eyes are the least common eye color. In order to have green eyes a person must have a yellow colored stroma. The yellowish stroma appears green due to Rayliegh scattering, the principle that makes the sky blue, blue plus yellow equals green.
The science behind Green Eyes: Green eyes are the least common eye color. In order to have green eyes a person must have a yellow colored stroma. The yellowish stroma appears green due to Rayliegh scattering, the principle that makes the sky blue, blue plus yellow equals green.