Overview. Electromyography (EMG), often done along with a nerve conduction velocity (NCV) study, measures your muscle and nerve electrical activity. Small needles, or electrodes, are placed in your muscles, and the results are recorded on a special machine. These tests are used to determine if a person's muscle weakness is from nerve damage or some other muscle condition.
Video presented by Ana Bracilovic, MD. This video accompanies the article: Electromyography (EMG) . Video Transcript. EMG/NCS stands for electromyogram and nerve conduction studies and this is an electrical test of your nerves and muscles. The purpose of the test is to localize where your symptoms are coming from.
You are being sent to the electromyography (EMG) lab because you have numbness, tingling, pain, weakness, or muscle cramping. Some of the tests that the EMG doctor may use to diagnose your symptoms are nerve conduction studies (NCS), needle EMG, and evoked potentials. The EMG doctor will examine you to decide which tests to do.
Electromyography (EMG). Electromyography (EMG) measures muscle response or electrical activity in response to a nerve’s stimulation of the muscle. The test is used to help detect neuromuscular abnormalities. During the test, one or more small needles (also called electrodes) are inserted through the skin into the muscle
To determine whether your nerves and muscles are working properly, your doctor may recommend you have EDX testing, which may include a nerve conduction study (NCS) and a needle electromyography (EMG) test. Other tests may include imaging, genetic testing, biopsies, biochemical tests, and strength testing. 
You are having an EMG because you have numbness, tingling, pain, weakness, or muscle cramping. Some of the tests that we may use to diagnose your symptoms are nerve conduction studies (NCSs), needle EMG, and evoked potentials. Our physicians will take your medical history and examine you to decide which tests to do. Doctors who do EMGs go to 4 years of medical school then have 3 or 4 years more years of training in a residency program. Most work as neurologists or physical medicine and rehabilitation doctors. Medical training helps the doctor decide which tests to perform based on your symptoms.