Otolaryngologist will frequently order an MRI of the brain or internal auditory canal for a patient with hearing loss, dizziness, tinnitus (ear ringing) or facial weakness. Vascular loops are commonly identified on these images. There are studies that suggest people with pulsatile tinnitus (ringing in ears that correlates with your heart beat) are more likely to have vascular loops, however many people with vascular loops are asymptomatic. There doesn’t seem to be any association between vascular loops and hearing loss.
This difference can be attributed to avulsion of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery during removal of the brain at autopsy. There were 5 cases of unexplained unilateral hearing loss with anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops: 3 in the opposite ear and 2 in both ears. There were 2 cases with unilateral unexplained tinnitus with anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops: 1 in the involved ear and 1 in the opposite ear. A case with bilateral tinnitus had an anterior inferior cerebellar artery loop in 1 ear. In 23 cases of unilateral Meniere's disease, there were anterior inferior cerebellar artery loops in the hydropic ears in 3, the opposite ear in 1, and both ears in 1.
Abstract. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Tinnitus is a common disorder, and the etiology remains mostly unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the causative effect of the vascular loop and compression of the vestibulocochlear nerve at the cerebellopontine angle in patients with unexplained tinnitus. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was approved by our institutional review board. Tinnitus is a sound in the ear, occurring without an external stimulus. It is a common complaint with a lifetime incidence of 7%–12% in the general population. Tinnitus may be classified as either an arterial pulse synchronous type (pulsatile) or a continuous (nonpulsatile) type.
Internal auditory canal vascular loops: audiometric and vestibular system findings. Applebaum EL, Valvasorri G. Prominent loops of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery in the cerebellopontine angle are found frequently during anatomic studies of this region. The wide range of audiometric and vestibular system test results probably reflects the complex interaction between the vascular loop and eighth cranial nerve, in which the loop exerts pressure on the nerve, and the nerve compromises inner ear circulation.
On the axial source images of the three-dimensional time of flight brain magnetic resonance angiography, a long redundant loop of the right anterior inferior cerebellar artery was noted entering and exiting the right internal auditory canal (figure). Figure. On the source images from the brain magnetic resonance angiography study, a long segment of the right anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) is noted from the basilar artery extending far laterally into the internal auditory canal.
Received 8 July 1986, Available online 16 January 2013. Vascular loops were found in 2 patients diagnosed clinically as having Meniere'ménière s. Disease a vascular loop was suspected of being present within the internal auditory canal in another patient who complained of tinnitus and. vertigo 
In this study, we report the results of a uniform battery of audiometric and vestibular system test results administered to fifteen patients with prominent vascular loops in the internal auditory canal diagnosed by pneumo-CT. The wide range of audiometric and vestibular system test results probably reflects the complex interaction between the vascular loop and eighth cranial nerve, in which the loop exerts pressure on the nerve, and the nerve compromises inner ear circulation.
These vascular loops are suspected of causing hearing loss, tinnitus, and vertigo, and surgery has been advocated to separate the vascular loop from the eighth cranial nerve. Previous reports have described pathologic anatomy, surgical approaches, and results of treatment. The wide range of audiometric and vestibular system test results probably reflects the complex interaction between the vascular loop and eighth cranial nerve, in which the loop exerts pressure on the nerve, and the nerve compromises inner ear circulation.
The labyrinthine artery (auditory artery, internal auditory artery), a long slender branch of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery (85%-100% cases) or basilar artery vestibulocochlear nerve through the internal acoustic meatus, and is distributed to the internal ear. 