The monarch butterfly is a large (4″) orange butterfly. It is very common and the Minnesota State butterfly. Male monarchs can be told by the thin veins on the wings and the scent glands on the lower wings. Monarchs are the only butterfly in Minnesota to migrate. Monarch butterflies feeding on milkweed flowers. Monarchs from the Upper Midwest and Eastern United States migrate to the Sierra Madre Mountains in Central Mexico, a distance of over 1700 miles from Minnesota. Monarchs begin their migration in late summer. At that time thousands of butterflies may be seen overhead or resting in trees. 
For those, butterflies visit puddles. By sipping moisture from mud puddles, butterflies take in salts and minerals from the soil. This behavior is called puddling, and is mostly seen in male butterflies. That's because males incorporate those extra salts and minerals into their sperm. 
Julia Family: HELICONIIDAE Scientific name: Dryas iulia This fast flying butterfly is a close relative of the Zebra Longwing butterfly and is often called the Orange Longwing. Its larvae feed on various species of passion vines. 
Adult butterflies have large, often brightly coloured wings, and conspicuous, fluttering flight. The group comprises the large superfamily Papilionoidea, along with two smaller groups, the skippers (superfamily Hesperioidea) and the moth-butterflies (superfamily Hedyloidea). The butterfly is a symbol of being transgender, because of the transformation from caterpillar to winged adult. In the English county of Devon, people once hurried to kill the first butterfly of the year, to avoid a year of bad luck.
The pupa or chrysalis, unlike that of moths, is not wrapped in a cocoon. Many butterflies are sexually dimorphic. Most butterflies have the ZW sex-determination system where females are the heterogametic sex (ZW) and males homogametic (ZZ). The butterfly is a symbol of being transgender, because of the transformation from caterpillar to winged adult. In the English county of Devon, people once hurried to kill the first butterfly of the year, to avoid a year of bad luck.
Again, similar behaviour is not limited to the Lepidoptera, and for example, the various species of bees commonly called sweat bees are attracted to various kinds of sweat and tears, including that of humans, and other bee species have been recorded as doing so to various degrees. Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) are diverse in their strategies to gather liquid nutrients. Typically, mud-puddling behavior takes place on wet soil. But even sweat on human skin may be attractive to butterflies such as species of Halpe.
The life-story of a generation of these butterflies is much like that of the other Yellows. The eggs are laid, one in a place, on the leaflets of various species of wild senna (Cassia) and soon hatch into cylindrical caterpillars that devour the tender leaflets. The great suborder of butterflies is commonly separated into two principal groups called superfamilies. One of these includes all of the higher butterflies and is named Papilionoidea. The other includes the lower Skipper butterflies and is named the Hesperioidea.
Answer by Flora868. Confidence votes 18. A kaleidoscope of butterflies. A group of butterflies is called a swarm, rabble, or kaleidoscope. A group of butterflies is called a flutter. Bees swarm, and a rabble is much too boisterous for butterflies. Butterflies are delicate creatures who gather to communicate socially only by the movement of their wings. This is called a flutter