1 Fry dough in the hot oil until sopes are just lightly browned, about 30 seconds per side. 2  Remove sopes with tongs and place on a paper towel-lined plate; cool just until sopes can be handled. 3  Pinch the edges of each sope together forming little 'boats'. 
Sopes are made from a dough known as masa. This dough is made into little cakes and then pressed or hand-crafted into thick patties with raised edges. Once they have been molded into the right shape, they are lightly fried on each side in a pan with either vegetable oil or lard. @Kristee – I make corn sopes and then fill them with corn and other vegetables, so I do consider them a sort of health food. Sure, they are fried in oil, but they do have redeeming qualities. I don't eat much meat, so I like to play around with vegetable combinations for sopes.
Sopes are small, round, tartlet-like cakes made with masa harina, the flour used to prepare corn tortillas. A sope can be filled with anything from meat, beans, salsa, cheese or a combination of these. My simple recipe is filled with beans, roasted chiles, and topped with queso fresco and cilantro. 
However, though both tostadas and sopes are fried, the tostada is thin and fried until it becomes crunchy and fragile, while the sope is much thicker and fried only until the exterior surface is cooked. The sope therefore has a soft, slightly pliable texture. The most common variation of the sope involves simply adding chicken and is widely known as a sope de pollo. Sopes topped with beef are also a common variation and are typically slightly larger than sopes de pollo.
Oaxacan memelas are a local name for the identical sopes that are served in other parts of Mexico, just made with different toppings. Memelas are corn masa cakes topped with beans, salsa, shredded cabbage, mole negro, guacamole and cheese. The most common variation of the sope involves simply adding chicken and is widely known as a sope de pollo. Sopes topped with beef are also a common variation and are typically slightly larger than sopes de pollo.
Sopes are traditional Mexican appetizers consisting of little fried masa cakes that are topped with vegetables and savory meats. You can actually use any topping you like, some of the most popular being beans and cheese, eggs, shredded beef or chicken, or even guacamole. Once all the sopes are formed and cooked, cover them with a dry towel. Heat oil in a deep fryer or pan to 350 degrees F. Fry each sope on both sides for about 3 minutes. Place the sopes on paper towels to blot off some of the extra oil.
User Rating. These sopes are fried masa cakes and are delicious topped with savory meats and veggies. Sopes make a great appetizer because of their small size. Make them extra small and add minimal toppings for a perfect finger food. Or make sopes your main dish by topping them high with large chunks of cooked meats and veggies.
Cook. Sopes are very traditional in mexican households. The toppings range from just beans and cheese, to eggs, shredded chicken or beef, picadillo, or even just guacamole. To form the sopes you will need either a tortilla press orflat plate or the bottom of a skillet. Directions. 1  Pour masa and salt into a bowl, add in enough water to moisten masa. 2  Form masa into balls the size of a large egg. 3  Place a piece of plastic wrap on the tortilla press or your kitchen counter. 4  Heat a griddle or comal on medium high, cook each sope for 1 minute. 5  Once all sopes are cooked and formed cover them with a dry towel. 6  Serve 7  ... N
The Sopes (soh-pehz) are a large family of mexican snacks and appetizers, which are very popular in Mexico but almost completely unknown elsewhere in the world. 