English name. In English, the name Willis means-Resolute protector; will. Surname.. Other origins for the name Willis include-English, German, German.The name Willis is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Resolute protector; will. Surname
Comments and insights on the name Willis: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Willis: | Edit. Me and my friends went on a school trip to Hong Kong and Willis became the name of an omnipresent, malevolent being. It was hilarious! It was hilarious! Willis became an inside joke and even has a sign: a W with a smiley face underneath, texted or typed like so: 3:) Willis is a name I would never give a kid because of this experience; it just wouldn't fit with a baby.
Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Willis: | Edit. Me and my friends went on a school trip to Hong Kong and Willis became the name of an omnipresent, malevolent being. It was hilarious! Willis became an inside joke and even has a sign: a W with a smiley face underneath, texted or typed like so: 3:) Willis is a name I would never give a kid because of this experience; it just wouldn't fit with a baby.
English Meaning: The name Willis is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Willis is: Resolute protector; will. Surname. German Meaning: The name Willis is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Willis is: Resolute protector; will. Surname. American Meaning: The name Willis is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Willis is: Resolute protector; will. Surname.
Willis, a variant of the name William, is a surname, of Scottish and English origin meaning (Son of William). Notable persons with that surname include: This page or section lists people with the surname Willis. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
It is however arguably of early Germanic or Anglo-Saxon pre 7th century origins deriving from the popular personal name William, composed of the elements wil meaning will or desire, and helm, a helmet or protector. This was dated 1327, in the Poll Tax Rolls of Staffordshire, during the reign of King Edward 111rd of England, 1327 - 1377. Throughout the centuries, surnames in every country have continued to develop often leading to astonishing variants of the original spelling.
There is more to Willis family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Willis family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know. Learn More. 
You can find out where the majority of the Willis families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find out when most of the Willis families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).
An interesting namebearer, recorded in the Dictionary of National Biography, was Francis Willis (1718 - 1807), a physician who attended King George 111rd in his first attack of madness in 1788, and who became popular at court. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Walter Wilys. This was dated 1327, in the Poll Tax Rolls of Staffordshire, during the reign of King Edward 111rd of England, 1327 - 1377. Throughout the centuries, surnames in every country have continued to develop often leading to astonishing variants of the original spelling.