First, you have to enable system protection on the main system drive in order to enable protection on other partitions. To do so, go to the System Protection tab. To enable the protection, select the system drive and click on the Configure button. Step # 4 -- Enable the Protection. Now select the Turn on system protection option and set a maximum usage amount of free disk space allotted for system protection. Follow this step by step to learn how to enable system protection and create a restore point in windows 8. Don't forget to check out our site http://howtech.tv/ for more free how-to videos! http://youtube.com/ithowtovids-our feed.
You must be logged in as an administrator to be able to turn system restore protection on or off. A) Select (dot) Turn on system protection. (see screenshot below). B) Move the Max Usage slider to set the maximum disk space usage you want to be used by system protection on the selected drive, and click/tap on OK. 7. Select a listed drive that you would like to turn system protection on or off for, click/tap on the Configure button, then do either step 8 or 9 below for what you wanted to do. (see screenshot below) 8. To Turn On System Restore Protection for a Drive A) Select (dot) Turn on system protection. (see screenshot below) B) Move the Max Usage slider to set the maximum disk space usage you want to be used by system protection on the selected drive, and click/tap on OK. (see screenshot above) C) Go to step 10. 9
Windows 7 uses the NTFS file system. Turning off System Protection for a disk deletes all restore points for that disk. You cannot restore the disk until you turn on System Protection again and a restore point is created for that disk. Here's How:1. Open the Control Panel (Icons View).A) Click on the System icon. Note It is not recommended to turn off system protection for your C: system drive (Windows 7) since it is a great tool to easily undo a mistake, for example one that may have crippled Windows 7, by just doing a system restore to go back to a previous restore point of your system dated before the mistake.
KE. To create a restore point for windows 7 Start / Control Panel / System / System Protection / At bottom of screen last button on right says create. Click it and it will ask you to create a restore point discription for the restore. hope this helps you. 196 people found this helpful.
To Turn Off System Protection for the Selected Disk A) Dot Turn off system protection. (see screenshot below step 10) NOTE: This turns off both creating restore points and Previous Versions for the selected drive in step 5. B) Go to step 10. 10. Note It is not recommended to turn off system protection for your C: system drive (Windows 7) since it is a great tool to easily undo a mistake, for example one that may have crippled Windows 7, by just doing a system restore to go back to a previous restore point of your system dated before the mistake.
The easiest way to get to System Protection is via the Cortana/search box on the task bar. Just type in “System Protection” and at the top of the pop-up panel you should see Create a restore point Control panel. Click that and the System Properties window appears. As you can see, in my case the protection is already on.
3. Click on the System Protection link. (See screenshot below) 4. Close the System window. (See screenshot below) 5. Click on the available hard disk drive or partition, that you want to change the System Protection disk space usage for, to select it. (See screenshot below step 6). NOTE: Windows 7 should be the C: disk with (System). (See screenshot below) 5. Click on the available hard disk drive or partition, that you want to change the System Protection disk space usage for, to select it. (See screenshot below step 6)
Step 3 -- Set restore settings. In this window, you can configure the system protection options for the selected drive. For example, you can allow the feature to create restore points for both the system settings and previous versions of the files and directories. This will open up the system properties window. Under the system protection tab, click on the partition or hard drive in which you want to turn on system protection. Once you're done, click on the Configure button.
System Protection is turned on by default for the Windows 7 hard disk or partition on your computer. This will show you how to turn System Protection On or Off for creating System Restore Points for system settings and previous versions (shadow copies) of files in Windows 7. Note It is not recommended to turn off system protection for your C: system drive (Windows 7) since it is a great tool to easily undo a mistake, for example one that may have crippled Windows 7, by just doing a system restore to go back to a previous restore point of your system dated before the mistake.