Exocrine Function: The pancreas contains exocrine glands that produce enzymes important to digestion. These enzymes include trypsin and chymotrypsin to digest proteins; amylase for the digestion of carbohydrates; and lipase to break down fats. The pancreas is located behind the stomach in the upper left abdomen. It is surrounded by other organs including the small intestine, liver, and spleen. It is spongy, about six to ten inches long, and is shaped like a flat pear or a fish extended horizontally across the abdomen.
To digest food, your digestive tract needs some help from nearby organs, including the liver, gallbladder, and pancreas, that produce or store enzymes and other substances that help break down food. 
Best Answer: &nbsp The liver has a number of functions, and they are all very important. So it's very hard to say which one is its main function.. But, the major role of liver in digestion is the secretion of bile. Bile is secreted by the liver constantly and it is stored in the gall bladder. The gall bladder concentrates bile and ejects it to your duodenum.
The pancreas stores and secretes pancreatic juice into the duodenum to complete the chemical digestion of food that began in the mouth and stomach. Pancreatic juice contains a mixture of enzymes including amylases, proteases, lipases, and nucleases. 
Your pancreas is one of the organs that secrete enzymes into the duodenum. The enzymes found in pancreatic juice break down all of the major nutrients, including carbohydrates, proteins and fats. However, the pancreas needs a little help from the liver and gallbladder when it comes to breaking down fats. For example, secretin is a hormone produced in the walls of the small intestine that stimulates the liver to produce bile and the pancreas to release bicarbonate, which neutralizes the acidity of the chyme. Cholecystokinin is a hormone produced in the duodenum that stimulates the gallbladder to release bile.
Hopefully this will help you   The liver secretes bile which aids in the breakdown of lipids into fatty acids. The enzymes which speeds up the rate of the digestion of lipi … ds is Lipase, and this is secreted by the pancreas. The pancreas produces enzymes that help digest proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. It also makes a substance that neutralizes stomach acid. The liver produces bile, which helps the body absorb fat. Bile is stored in the gallbladder until it is needed.
When food enters the duodenum it is deluged with pancreatic juice, which is defined as an alkaline secretion of the pancreas containing enzymes that aid in the digestion of proteins, carbohydrates and fats. Let's review. The pancreas is an important organ in digestion because it produces a variety of enzymes that break down all of the major food groups. In addition to the enzymes, your pancreas also secretes bicarbonate, which makes the pancreatic secretions alkaline in nature.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Twin305. Confidence votes 19. The liver secretes bile which aids in the breakdown of lipids into fatty acids. The enzymes which speeds up the rate of the digestion of lipids is Lipase, and this is secreted by the pancreas. The pancreas also secretes many other enzymes including: Two protease's are trypsin and chymotrypsin. The pancreas produces enzymes that help digest proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. It also makes a substance that neutralizes stomach acid. The liver produces bile, which helps the body absorb fat. Bile is stored in the gallbladder until it is needed.
The pancreas is an organ located in the abdomen. It plays an essential role in converting the food we eat into fuel for the body's cells. The pancreas has two main functions: an exocrine function that helps in digestion and an endocrine function that regulates blood sugar. The pancreas is located behind the stomach in the upper left abdomen. It is surrounded by other organs including the small intestine, liver, and spleen. It is spongy, about six to ten inches long, and is shaped like a flat pear or a fish extended horizontally across