By Richard Nordquist. Definition: Vivid descriptive language that appeals to one or more of the senses (sight, hearing, touch, smell, and taste). See the examples below. Occasionally the term imagery is also used to refer to figurative language, in particular metaphors and similes. See also: 1  Image. 2  Composing Descriptive Paragraphs and Essays.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: In literature, imagery falls into 2 categories: literal (concrete) and figurative (abstract). Concrete imagery are the usage of descriptive words that involve little or no extension beyone its literal meaning. Figurative imagery words are not the literal meaning. 
A well-composed poem uses concrete imagery to give the reader a descriptive picture to imagine. Abstract words are the opposite of this, providing an intangible feeling or concept that often cannot stimulate the same response in a reader. Using words that represent colors, objects, textures and sounds can help readers picture a powerful image in their head while reading your poem. Instructors will often tell students to show, don't tell, which means to use concrete imagery.
The definition of a concrete images is an image that cannot be disproved. This image can be proof of evidence for example. Preprocessing images commonly involves removing low-frequency background noise, normalizing the intensity of the individual particles images, removing reflections, and masking … portions of images.Image preprocessing is the technique of enhancing data images prior to computational processing.
Concrete terms refer to objects or events that are available to the senses. [This is directly opposite to abstract terms, which name things that are not available to the senses.] Examples of concrete terms include spoon, table, velvet eye patch, nose ring, sinus mask, green, hot, walking. General terms and specific terms are not opposites, as abstract and concrete terms are; instead, they are the different ends of a range of terms. General terms refer to groups; specific terms refer to individualsbut there's room in between. Let's look at an example.
Concrete imagery uses vivid descriptions to communicate concepts and scenes with sensory language. Using words that represent colors, objects, textures and sounds can help readers picture a powerful image in their head while reading your poem. Instructors will often tell students to show, don't tell, which means to use concrete imagery. To make a poem more effective and strong, concrete imagery is used because it simply draws in readers better. Writers often use similes and metaphors in concrete imagery
a vision that is recollected with respect to certain sense factors, like the smell of a specific perfume. CONCRETE IMAGE: Marion could still recall the concrete image of her elementary school's morning bell.. No related posts. 
The more abstract or general your language is, the more unclear and boring it will be. The more concrete and specific your language is, the more clear and vivid it will be. Let's look at these different types of language. Abstract and Concrete Terms. Abstract terms refer to ideas or concepts; they have no physical referents. General terms and specific terms are not opposites, as abstract and concrete terms are; instead, they are the different ends of a range of terms. General terms refer to groups; specific terms refer to individualsbut there's room in between. Let's look at an example.
Definition. A slender, precast concrete-reinforced member that is embedded in the soil by driving, jetting, or insertion into a predrilled hole. May or may not be prestressed. Picture of concrete pile. Print | Cite This Source | Link to This Page
His poem In a Station of the Metro is considered by many to be a concrete poem due to its focus on visual spacing, which enhances the poem. This work is extremely short and contains no verbs whatsoever, which provides the reader with an immediate concrete image, like a photo snapshot. 