From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A samosa (/səˈmoʊsə/) or samoosa is a fried or baked pastry with a savoury filling, such as spiced potatoes, onions, peas, lentils, macaroni, noodles and/or minced meat (lamb, beef or chicken). Pine nuts can also be added. The samosa is claimed to have originated in Central Asia. The samosa is claimed to have originated in the Middle East (where it is known as sambosa) prior to the 10th century. Abolfazl Beyhaqi (995-1077), an Iranian historian mentioned it in his history, Tarikh-e Beyhaghi. It was introduced to the Indian subcontinent in the 13th or 14th century by traders from Central Asia.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. The samosa is a delectable Indian and Tibetan pastry, quite similar to the Greek spanakopita. Normally the samosa is made in a triangular form with pastry crust or filo dough. The interior may be stuffed with curried potatoes, peas, shredded lamb or chicken, and spices. They are most frequently fried producing a delightfully crispy exterior, though some varieties may be baked to reduce fat content. Ground cumin, which is used to flavor samosas. Green peas are often used when preparing the Indian dessert somosa. In Indian restaurants, one can order a samosa alone, or as part of chaat. Samosas are often dipped in yogurt.
Noun. 1. samosa-small turnover of Indian origin filled with vegetables or meat and fried and served hot. turnover-a dish made by folding a piece of pastry over a filling. 
The samosa contains a maida flour shell stuffed with some filling, generally a mixture of mashed boiled potato, onions, green peas, spices and green chili. The samosa is claimed to have originated in the Middle East (where it is known as sambosa) prior to the 10th century. Abolfazl Beyhaqi (995-1077), an Iranian historian mentioned it in his history, Tarikh-e Beyhaghi. It was introduced to the Indian subcontinent in the 13th or 14th century by traders from Central Asia.
Use a knife to slice each one in half. 4. Stuff and fold the samosas. Spoon 2 teaspoons of filling into the center of a piece of dough, then bring the edges together to form a cone shape. Seal the edges carefully using a little water. (You can also make paste using flour and water for easier sealing). 1  Use your fingers to press the edges of each samosa into place.
Definition of SAMOSA. : a small triangular pastry filled with spiced meat or vegetables and fried in ghee or oil. ADVERTISEMENT.
1. i personally like the punjabi samosa which is served in north india. in this peas and potatoes are the main ingredients and the filling is not crushed to a smoothness. the aloo or potato pieces are soft but intact and there are few green chili pieces also in the filing. 1 drain samosas on paper towels to remove excess oil. 2  fry the samosas in batches. 3  for frying the second batch, again increase the temperature of the oil. 4  add the samosas and then lower the flame, thereby decreasing the temperature of oil.
1 Mix the flour with the ghee and salt to taste. 2  Add a little water at a time to it, to make a firm, smooth dough. 3  Keep aside. 4  In a pan, heat 2 tbsps of oil and add the cumin seeds to it. 5  When they stop spluttering, add the coriander, tumeric, red chilli, raw mango and garam masala powders. 