Essential Nutrients for Dogs and Cats: Carbohydrates When picking a food for your dog or cat, it’s important that you choose one with an adequate amount of carbohydrates. This nutrient includes molecules made of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, found in all vegetables. Why are carbohydrates important for dogs and cats? While it’s true that dogs and cats can live without carbohydrates in their food because they synthesize the carbohydrate they need from amino acids, this nutrient improves the body’s functioning.
Carbohydrates are present in almost all commercially available cat foods. While we often focus on the protein and fat content of a cat food, carbohydrates have an impact on the quality of your cat's diet. Carbohydrates are responsible for many health problems, if not fed correctly. The function of carbohydrates in pet food. The value of carbohydrates in cat foods is often debated among nutritionists. Despite the debate, most commercial dry foods contain between 30% and 70% carbohydrates.
Cats can’t convert carbohydrates into energy, so the large part of their nutrition must come from protein and fat. Taurine: Taurine is a very important amino acid for your cat. Without it, your cat can develop retinal degeneration, which can lead to blindness, heart disease, and developmental abnormalities in kittens. Cats need proteins, fats, carbs, water, vitamins and minerals to stay in shape. More than any other pet, what you feed your cat shows on the outside. With proper nutrition, your cat will be more energetic and have a shiny coat.
Carbohydrates are a source of energy that can be utilized by animals which have the metabolic abilities to do so. In addition, the quality and particular source of the carbohydrate must be considered. Dogs and cats each have their own unique metabolic abilities to obtain nutrients from food. There are three sources of energy that can be utilized by most mammals: proteins, fats and carbohydrates.
Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are one of the three macronutrients that provide energy to an animal’s diet. It is the most important for providing a readily available energy source. A carbohydrate is a molecule consisting of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen (CHO). Because they do not supply building blocks for the formation of tissues in the body, carbohydrates are not considered essential nutrients. However, carbohydrates in dog food and cat food serve many important purposes in the body:
Fat is also a main source of energy for your cat. Carbohydrates: Some cats have been known to go for the occasional potato chip or even bread, but they are not able to utilize carbohydrates as their primary energy source. Cats need proteins, fats, carbs, water, vitamins and minerals to stay in shape. More than any other pet, what you feed your cat shows on the outside. With proper nutrition, your cat will be more energetic and have a shiny coat.
Carbohydrates used in cat foods. Carbohydrates used in cat foods generally include the starchy portion of a plant that can be easily broken down in the digestive tract of the cat. These carbohydrates are found in high concentrations in cereal grains such as rice, wheat, corn, barley, and oats. The function of carbohydrates in pet food. The value of carbohydrates in cat foods is often debated among nutritionists. Despite the debate, most commercial dry foods contain between 30% and 70% carbohydrates.
Generally measured in terms of calories, energy comes fromthree major dietary components: carbohydrates, protein, and fats. While not essential in the diet, carbohydrates provide an abundant source of ener-gy. The major sources of carbohydrates in commercial cat foods are cereals,legumes, and other plant foodstuffs. Because cats are carnivores, the shortlength of their long intestines limits their ability to ferment fibers that are found inmany carbohydrates. TIDBIT Severe illness or trauma may increase a cat’s energy needs.
If these cats are fed a lower carbohydrate diet, or if they are fed a digestive enzymatic supplement, they can usually tolerate the carbohydrates that are present. Summary. Soluble carbohydrates provide an affordable source of calories and play an important role in the composition of most commercial pet foods. The function of carbohydrates in pet food. The value of carbohydrates in cat foods is often debated among nutritionists. Despite the debate, most commercial dry foods contain between 30% and 70% carbohydrates.