The eight include the two feldspars plagioclase and orthoclase (potassium feldspar), quartz, the micas muscovite and biotite, the amphibole mineral hornblende, the pyroxene mineral augite, and the green mineral olivine. The feldspars are the most common mineral family in the crust of the Earth (about half of all minerals). This is a sample of potassium feldspar (orthoclase). Potassium feldspar (orthoclase) is often pinkish in color and displays the property of cleavage, the tendency to break along flat planes. It is harder than glass.
Granite differs from granodiorite in that at least 35% of the feldspar in granite is alkali feldspar as opposed to plagioclase; it is the potassium feldspar that gives many granites a distinctive pink color. The extrusive igneous rock equivalent of granite is rhyolite. By definition, granite is an igneous rock with at least 20% quartz and up to 65% alkali feldspar by volume.
Central Virginia Volcanic-Plutonic Belt From expanded explanation (ref. VA002): Biotite granite. Gray to white, medium-grained, massive to layered granite and granite gneiss range in composition from granite to quartz diorite. Quartz diorite dikes and sills are locally abundant. Mineralogy: quartz + potassium feldspar + plagioclase + biotite + epidote + muscovite +/- clinopyroxene + hornblende. This unit intrudes biotite gneiss unit (Cbg). 
Biotite is commonly associated with muscovite, quartz, feldspars, and amphibole minerals in igneous rocks, while phlogopite is more often found with olivine and pyroxene. Dark colored minerals with a layered crystal structure, biotite and phlogopite both display a single perfect cleavage direction. This cleavage allows biotite and phlogopite samples to be easily separated into thin flexible light-transmitting translucent sheets.
The occurrence of hornblende in migmatites related to hornblende-free biotite, plagioclase and quartz (BPQ) gneisses requires a mechanism whereby amphibole is generated during partial melting of BPQ assemblages. Biotite + plagioclase + quartz (BPQ) is a common assemblage in gneisses, metasediments and metamorphosed granitic to granodioritic intrusions. Melting experiments on an assemblage consisting of 24 vol. % quartz, 25 vol. % biotite (XMg = 0·38–0·40), 42 vol
Generally, restite is composed of a predominance of mafic minerals because these are harder to melt (see Bowen's reaction series). Typical minerals are amphibole, biotite, pyroxene, ilmenite or other iron oxides and some plagioclase feldspar. When chunks of restite are caught up within the granite it is known as a restite inclusion or enclave. Cordierite in restite inclusions is unstable at low pressures; this reverts to Al-rich mica and quartz during ascent with the entraining magma. Orthopyroxene, unstable at low temperatures, reverts to an assemblage of biotite plus quartz. Restite feldspars will typically be a sodic plagioclase.
(a) Mafic Minerals: Dark minerals consisting of olivine, pyroxene, amphiboles and biotite mica. These silicates are rich in Fe, Mg and Ca. (b) Felsic Minerals: Light-colored minerals consisting of quartz, K-feldspar, plagioclase and muscovite mica. 
A pile of minerals. This image shows some of the most common minerals you'll find in rocks. This pile contains plagioclase feldspar, potassium feldspar, quartz, muscovite mica, biotite mica, amphibole, olivine, and calcite. Potassium feldspar is another member of the feldspar mineral family. Like plagioclase feldspar, potassium feldspars are silicate minerals that contain a considerable amount of-you guessed it-potassium. Feldspar crystals are stubby prisms, often pink to wh