Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C are diseases caused by three different viruses. Although each can cause similar symptoms, they have different modes of transmission and can affect the liver differently. Hepatitis A appears only as an acute or newly occurring infection and does not become chronic. 
Hepatitis means inflammation of the liver. Toxins, certain drugs, some diseases, heavy alcohol use, and bacterial and viral infections can all cause hepatitis. Hepatitis is also the name of a family of viral infections that affect the liver; the most common types are Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C. 
“Hepatitis” means inflammation of the liver. Toxins, certain drugs, some diseases, heavy alcohol use, and bacterial and viral infections can all cause hepatitis. Hepatitis is also the name of a family of viral infections that affect the liver; the most common types are Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.
Hepatitis D and E are rare in the U.S. Hepatitis D only causes an infection when hepatitis B is present and can make that infection more severe. It is usually spread by exposure to blood or infected needles. With hepatitis B and C, some people may develop chronic forms of the disease. The goal with chronic forms is to minimize further damage to the liver, to treat underlying conditions that are causing or exacerbating the condition, and to prevent transmission of viral hepatitis to others.
Hepatitis A, for example, has been traced to the ingestion of human waste, i.e. fecal matter, usually via contaminated food or water. Hepatitis A can also be transmitted through physical contact (and not just sexual contact). Hepatitis B and C are transferred via the blood or body fluids containing blood. 
Hepatitis C can be either “acute” or “chronic.”. Acute Hepatitis C virus infection is a short-term illness that occurs within the first 6 months after someone is exposed to the Hepatitis C virus. For most people, acute infection leads to chronic infection. Toxins, certain drugs, some diseases, heavy alcohol use, and bacterial and viral infections can all cause hepatitis. Hepatitis is also the name of a family of viral infections that affect the liver; the most common types are Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C.
Hepatitis A causes an acute infection but not a chronic form of the disease. Treatment usually involves only supportive therapy, and most people recover fully within about six months. Hepatitis B (HBV) can be spread by contact with the body fluids of an infected person. The virus is most often spread through exposure to contaminated blood or needles, through unprotected sex with an infected person, and from an infected mother to baby (rarely in the U.S. but commonly in many parts of the world). With hepatitis B and C, some people may develop chronic forms of the disease. The goal with chronic forms is to minimize further damage to the liver, to treat underlying conditions that are causing or exacerbating the condition, and to prevent transmission of viral hepatitis to others.
Hepatitis C tests are used to screen for and diagnose a hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, to guide therapy and/or to monitor the treatment of an HCV infection. An HCV antibody test is used to screen for infection. It detects the presence of antibodies to the virus, indicating exposure to HCV. 
Hepatitis A. Hepatitis A is a viral infection of the liver. The virus is spread by the faecal-oral route, including contaminated food or water or direct contact with an infected person. Vaccination and good hygiene prevents infection. Small children who become infected usually have no symptoms. Hepatitis A does NOT cause long-term liver disease and deaths caused by hepatitis A are rare. The period between contact with the virus to the development of symptoms is usually four weeks, but can range from two to seven weeks.
What is Hepatitis B. Hepatitis B is a virus that can cause liver cancer and can be prevented through a vaccine. Hepatitis B can cause short-term (acute) or long-term (chronic) infection in the liver. Chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver, also known as cirrhosis, or can lead to liver cancer.