Special equipment: Kitchen twine. Preheat the oven to 250 degrees F. Put the ribs on a baking sheet, season with salt and pepper and drizzle with olive oil. Stick them in the oven, and let the ribs bake, low and slow for 1 1/2 hours. Meanwhile, make the sauce. Wrap the bacon around the middle of the thyme sprigs and tie with kitchen twine so you have a nice bundle.
Place the seasoned ribs on a large piece of foil then top with another piece of foil and roll all of the edges to make a sealed packet. Place on the baking sheet and into the oven and bake for 1 hour. Carefully, open the tin foil packed ribs then slather with your favorite barbecue sauce. 
When the ribs are fork tender, all you need to do is remove them from the foil (save those juices for stock or soup later!) and put them on a baking tray. If your ribs are about 3 lbs, they’ll take about 3 hours 15 minutes and a 4 lb rack will take closer to 4 1/2 hours. Roughly speaking, they need to have at least 1 hour in the oven per pound, with about 15 – 30 minutes extra to make sure they’re super tender.
Fold the sides of the foil over the ribs and seal tightly on all sides. Place the ribs in the oven and bake, undisturbed, for 2 1/2 to 3 hours, or until ribs are very tender. Remove the ribs from the oven and peel back the foil so that the ribs are exposed. Using a pastry brush or the back of a spoon, coat the racks lightly on the meaty sides with barbecue sauce
Broil the ribs for about 5 minutes, until the sugar in the dry rub is bubbling and the ribs are evenly browned. Bake the ribs: Set the oven to 300°F. Move the ribs to an oven rack in the middle of the oven. Roast for 2 1/2 to 3 hours for spare ribs or 1 1/2 to 2 hours for baby back ribs. Halfway through cooking, cover the ribs with aluminum foil to protect them from drying out
1 Remove ribs from pot, and place them in a 9x13 inch baking dish. 2  Pour barbeque sauce over ribs. 3  Cover dish with aluminum foil, and bake in the preheated oven for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, or until internal temperature of pork has reached 160 degrees F (70 degrees C). 1 Pour barbeque sauce over ribs. 2
1 Cover the baking dish with foil and place on center rack of pre-heated oven. 2  Bake for approximately 2 1/2 - 3 hours (depending on the size of the ribs you are using). 3  Remove the ribs from oven and drain any grease from dish; reserving the foil for later use (waste not, want not). 
Lay a couple more pieces of foil on top of the ribs and crunch the edges together to make a big package. Do the same with your second rack of ribs. Now for the fun part-pop them into a 275 degree oven for 3 1/2 to 4 hours. Repeat with the other rack of ribs, dry rub and foil. Place both baking sheets of ribs into the preheated oven. Bake for 3 1/2 to 4 hours, or until ribs are falling-apart tender. 4. Open up the rib packages, gently transfer the ribs to a cutting board and cut into one or two-rib chunks. Drizzle with barbecue sauce.
Preheat the oven to about 250 degrees Farenhiet and bake for about 2 hours to check the tenderness of the pork ribs. Usually its best to bake for 3 hours if you really want to … achieve the 'fall off the bone' tenderness that you desire. Hope this helps. Put your oven at 375 degrees F. Dry run the ribs with a seasoning mixture of your choice. Some salt, lots of pepper. Time is a variable without knowing the amount of meat. Bake of 90 minutes and check for doneness.