So, if you bought a house worth $200,000 and have a $150,000 mortgage, then you have $50,000 in equity. If you had no mortgage, you’d have $200,000 in equity. This is where people hit the mental hurdle of why to not include the equity in their net worth. Again, let’s assume that you own your home free and clear. 
1. Lender can only count 60% of the clients vested balance toward reserves. 2. Lender can only count retirement funds as reserves if the 401k and/or IRA allows withdraws for emergencies related to the type of property being purchased OR that the borrower already owns (see below for more). Number 1 is easy. Determining if Retirement Funds are Accessible. Determining whether or not retirement funds are accessible is a key step in determining whether or not a Phoenix mortgage company will count retirement account funds as reserves.
Reserves (while not required on all mortgage types) are a key piece of many Arizona mortgage approval s. Borrowers are allowed to count retirement assets as reserves however there are a few very important restrictions that govern how much of the account balance can be used (see below for more). Determining if Retirement Funds are Accessible. Determining whether or not retirement funds are accessible is a key step in determining whether or not a Phoenix mortgage company will count retirement account funds as reserves.
If you take out money for the purpose of buying a home, its not a loan so there is no repayment as it relates to a conventional loan. by Bentheredunthat August 19, 2003 12:00 AM. Learned the hard way that VA is the only agency that counts retirement account loans in the DTI. by peeper August 19, 2003 12:00 AM. hmmm.... 
Annuity income can be counted from the day it is set up. Your broker can tell you the amount of monthly income you will need from the annuity, and you can see if this is a viable option for you. I don’t have a 401-K or an IRA account, but I do draw pension income. The “test” for this income is three-fold: you must have set up a regular, monthly withdrawal from your IRA, you must have received it for the past 2 months, and you must be able to continue to receive it for the next 3 years without exhausting your IRA funds.
If you do take a loan from your retirement plan you are, in fact, removing a portion of your balance. For instance, if your balance is $100,000 and you borrow $40,000, you will have a balance of $60,000. However, taking a loan is different from making a withdrawal. One of the drawbacks of borrowing from your retirement plan is that the loan amount is no longer being invested in the portfolio of assets in your retirement account and, therefore, the opportunity for diversification using that amount is lost until the amount is returned to the plan.
This booklet will answer questions you may have about taking and repaying loans from your employer’s retirement plan. Please keep in mind that all plans do not offer loans, so you should check to see if your employer’s plan with TIAA-CREF has a loan feature and the type of TIAA-CREF annuity contract you have. Note: Your employer’s retirement plan may restrict funds available for loans. If your entire balance is in the TIAA Traditional Annuity (which is generally not cashable), a loan will not be available since the collateral must come from the cashable variable accounts or mutual funds.
If a plan provides for loans, the plan may limit the amount that can be taken as a loan. The maximum amount that the plan can permit as a loan is (1) the greater of $10,000 or 50% of your vested account balance, or (2) $50,000, whichever is less. For example, if a participant has an account balance of $40,000, the maximum amount that he or she can borrow from the account is $20,000. 1 Jim, a participant in our retirement plan, has requested a second plan loan. 2  Jim’s vested account balance is $80,000. 3  He borrowed $27,000 eight months ago and still owes $18,000 on that loan.
1 Borrowing limits and collateral Generally, loans are available for a minimum of $1,000 and a maximum of $50,000 from each employer; however, the amount you’re eligible to borrow from your TIAA accounts under your employer’s retirement plan generally depends on how much you have in your account. Note: Your employer’s retirement plan may restrict funds available for loans. If your entire balance is in the TIAA Traditional Annuity (which is generally not cashable), a loan will not be available since the collateral must come from the cashable variable accounts or mutual funds.
401K or Retirement Accounts. It is important to provide documentation about your retirement accounts or 401K programs because this is another asset you could draw upon as reserves in case of a problem. It is also another way to show you have a savings history. Just provide a copy of your most recent statement to your lender. 