noun. verb. The definition of a hunch is a feeling or a premonition about something, or an arched back while sitting or standing. 1  An example of a hunch is a feeling about who stole the books. 2  An example of a hunch is the shape of the back of someone who does not sit up straight while sitting.
haunch. n. 1. (Anatomy) the human hip or fleshy hindquarter of an animal, esp a horse or similar quadruped. 2. (Cookery) the leg and loin of an animal, used for food: a haunch of venison. 
2. [+ object] : to raise (your shoulders or back) while bending your head forward especially to hide or protect your face. He hunched his shoulders as he headed out into the storm. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. hunch /ˈhʌntʃ/ noun. plural hunches. hunch. /ˈhʌntʃ/. noun. plural hunches. Learner's definition of HUNCH. [count]. : a belief or idea about something (especially a future event) that is not based on facts or evidence
Verb [edit]. hunch ‎(third-person singular simple present hunchs, present participle hunching, simple past and past participle hunched). ( 1 intransitive) To slouch, stoop, curl, or lean. 
have a hunch (that something is the case). to have an idea about what did, will, or should happen; to have a feeling that something will or should happen. I had a hunch that you would be here when I arrived. I have a hunch about the way things will happen. 
noun. 1. feeling, idea, impression, suspicion, intuition, premonition, inkling, presentiment I had a hunch that we would work well together. verb. 1. crouch, bend, stoop, curve, arch, huddle, draw in, squat, hump He hunched over the map to read the small print. hunch. n. 1. An intuitive feeling or a premonition: had a hunch that he would lose. 2.
have a hunch (that something is the case). to have an idea about what did, will, or should happen; to have a feeling that something will or should happen. I had a hunch that you would be here when I arrived. I have a hunch about the way things will happen. 
Kyphosis. Kyphosis is a forward rounding of the back. Some rounding is normal, but the term kyphosis usually refers to an exaggerated rounding of the back. While kyphosis can occur at any age, it's most common in older women. 
Definition of HUNCHBACK. 1. : a person with a humpback. 2. : humpback 1. — hunch·backed \-ˈbakt\ adjective. See hunchback defined for English-language learners. See hunchback defined for kids. 