Magdeburg hemispheres from the latter part of the nineteenth century and the early part of the twentieth century were rarely marked with the name of the maker. The handle on the side where the valve is located unscrews, allowing the hemispheres to be threaded onto the opening in the base plate of the vacuum pump. Most physicists have seen the woodcut at the right, in which eight horses on the right and eight horses on the left are trying to pull apart two evacuated hemispheres.
The Magdeburg hemispheres are a pair of large copper hemispheres, with mating rims. They were used to demonstrate the power of atmospheric pressure. When the rims were sealed with grease and the air was pumped out, the sphere contained a vacuum and could not be pulled apart by teams of horses. The original Magdeburg hemispheres and Guericke's vacuum pump in the Deutsches Museum, Munich, Germany. The Magdeburg hemispheres, around 50 cm (20 inches) in diameter, were designed to demonstrate the vacuum pump that Guericke had invented.
Magdeburg: a city with character, history and two fathers. The regional capital Magdeburg is one of the oldest cities in Germany's new federal states, although the course of its history has not always been smooth. 
The Magdeburg hemispheres were designed by a German scientist and mayor of Magdeburg, Otto von Guericke, in 1656 to demonstrate the air pump that he had invented, and the concept of atmospheric pressure. The original Magdeburg hemispheres and Guericke's vacuum pump in the Deutsches Museum, Munich, Germany. The Magdeburg hemispheres, around 50 cm (20 inches) in diameter, were designed to demonstrate the vacuum pump that Guericke had invented.
The experiment was performed in 1657 at Magdeburg, Germany by Otto von Guericke (1602-1686), the Burgomeister (mayor) of Magdeburg. The hemispheres were made of bronze and were about 1.2 feet across. Von Guericke calculated that a force of almost 2700 pounds would be needed to pull the two hemispheres apart. Directly below is a picture of the original hemispheres in the Deutches Museum in Munich. Most physicists have seen the woodcut at the right, in which eight horses on the right and eight horses on the left are trying to pull apart two evacuated hemispheres.
Sphere Interactions. The surface of the geosphere, where the rocky part of our planet is in contact with water, air, and/or life is generally where the spheres intersect and affect each other. The processes that move matter and energy from one sphere to another are called sphere interactions. Several examples of sphere interactions can be inferred from this photograph: 1  Humans (biosphere) built a dam out of rock materials (geosphere). 2  Water in the lake (hydrosphere) seeps into the cliff walls behind the dam, becoming groundwater (geosphere), or evaporating into the air (atmosphere).
Answers. Best Answer: The two hemispheres are joined with an airtight seal and a vacuum pump draws air out ot the sphere. Initially the air pressure inside and outside the sphere is the same (normal atmospheric pressure) so there is a balance of forces on the inside and outside surfaces of the sphere. By removing some of the air from inside the sphere the internal pressure decreases. Inward force from the outside pressure now exceeds the outward force from the internal pressure and the two hemispheres are forced together by the pressure difference. The force (F) pressing the hemispheres together is given by .
1 Ask them if they think air weighs something. 2  Tell them you're going to do an experiment to find out. 3  Show them the Magdeburg hemispheres and mention they were invented to find out whether air weighs something. 4  Hold up one half and explain that there are air molecules all around it, bumping into both sides. Key Points: 1  In 1654, Otto von Guericke (inventor of the air pump) placed two empty copper hemispheres (called Magdeburg hemispheres after the name of the town in which the demonstration took place) together and removed the air from between them. 2  Two teams of horses could not separate them.
Understand [edit]. Magdeburg used to be one of the most important medieval cities of Europe. During the Cold War era Magdeburg's population increased rapidly and the city became a socially and economically important center of the GDR. After the German reunification, however, most of the city's economy was shut down. Bike [edit]. Magdeburg is one of the greenest cities in Europe and the second greenest city in Germany. Riding your bike in Magdeburg is a perfect freetime activity. Since most of the streets have cycle tracks on the sides you will not have any problems with taking your bike into the city.