ABILIFY can be given without regard to meals. The recommended target dose of ABILIFY is 15 mg/day, as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. The dose may be increased to 30 mg/day based on clinical response. The safety of doses above 30 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials. ABILIFY has been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 to 30 mg/day, when administered as the tablet formulation; however, doses higher than 10 or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 or 15 mg/day.
For adolescents age 13 to 17 years old, the recommended starting Abilify dose for schizophrenia is Abilify 2 mg once daily. Within a week or so, your healthcare provider should try to increase your dose to Abilify 10 mg once daily. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase the dose up to 30 mg per day. The recommended starting dose of Abilify for bipolar disorder in adults is 15 mg once daily. If necessary to control your bipolar disorder symptoms, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 30 mg once daily.
For children and adolescents age 10 to 17 years old, the recommended starting Abilify dose for bipolar disorder is Abilify 2 mg once daily. Within a week or so, your healthcare provider should try to increase your dose to Abilify 10 mg once daily. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase the dose up to 30 mg per day. The recommended starting dose of Abilify for bipolar disorder in adults is 15 mg once daily. If necessary to control your bipolar disorder symptoms, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 3
A: Abilify is used for many different conditions such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. The recommended starting dose for treating major depression (when used along with an antidepressant) in adults is 2 mg to 5 mg once daily. The effective dose is usually Abilify 5 to 10 mg once daily. A: Abilify is an atypical antipsychotic and antidepressant used in the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and clinical depression. It has many reported side effects, but the less common ones include blurred vision, dry mouth, weight gain, stiffness, myalgia (muscle pain), and muscle spasms.
The recommended target dose of ABILIFY is 10 mg/day. Aripiprazole was studied in adolescent patients 13 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia at daily doses of 10 mg and 30 mg. ABILIFY has been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 to 30 mg/day, when administered as the tablet formulation; however, doses higher than 10 or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 or 15 mg/day.
Dosage of Abilify for Schizophrenia. The recommended starting Abilify dose for schizophrenia in adults is 10 mg to 15 mg once daily. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 30 mg per day. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase the dose up to 30 mg per day. The recommended starting dose of Abilify for bipolar disorder in adults is 15 mg once daily. If necessary to control your bipolar disorder symptoms, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 30
The recommended starting dose for ABILIFY as adjunctive treatment for patients already taking an antidepressant is 2 to 5 mg/day. The recommended dosage range is 2 to 15 mg/day. Dosage adjustments of up to 5 mg/day should occur gradually, at intervals of no less than 1 week [see Clinical Studies ]. ABILIFY has been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 to 30 mg/day, when administered as the tablet formulation; however, doses higher than 10 or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 or 15 mg/day.
The tablets are available in various doses including 2 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg and 30 mg. The disintegrating tablets are available in both 10 mg and 15 mg doses. This is good because it allows for more dosing flexibility. The form and size you take will depend on the Abilify dosage. Abilify Dosages. As indicated above the Abilify dosage depends on several patient specific criteria. However, it also depends on the condition in which you are trying to treat as it is different for each type of psychosis. The medication should be taken once daily and can be taken with or without food.
For adolescents age 13 to 17 years old, the recommended starting aripiprazole dose for schizophrenia is aripiprazole 2 mg once daily. Within a week or so, your healthcare provider should try to increase your dose to aripiprazole 10 mg once daily. 