The mammalian nuclear factor-B (NF-B) family consists of five related transcription factors that regulate inducible gene expression in various physiological contexts. The link between the activation of NF-B and inflammation has been shown in various human diseases and in animal models of disease. Research on the biological function of nuclear factor-B (NF-B), a key mediator of inducible transcription in the immune system, has traditionally focused on its role in the initiation of innate and adaptive immune responses.
Additionally, NF-κB plays a role in the development and activity of a number of tissues including the central nervous system (Memet 2006). Moreover, pathological dysregulation of NF-κB is linked to inflammatory and autoimmune diseases as well as cancer. The NF-κB family of transcription factors plays important roles in the immune system (Ghosh et al., 1998; Li and Verma 2002; Bonizzi and Karin 2004).
NF-κB plays a key role in regulating the immune response to infection (κ light chains are critical components of immunoglobulins). Incorrect regulation of NF-κB has been linked to cancer, inflammatory, and autoimmune diseases, septic shock, viral infection, and improper immune development. NF-κB has also been implicated in processes of synaptic plasticity and memory.
Additionally, NF-kB inhibition during the inflammatory process is associated with the production and release of TGF-β1 and a decrease in the number of apoptotic leukocytes. The data suggest that NF-kB plays a role in the resolution of inflammation through the regulation of leukocyte apoptosis. In this study Lawrence et al (Nature Medicine 7:1291, 2001), investigated the roles of NF-kB in the onset and resolution of inflammation. NF-kB activation in leukocytes during the evolution of inflammation was measured using rat carrageenin-induced pleurisy as a model of acute
In addition to the roles that NF-κB plays in inflammatory diseases, constitutive activation of the NF-κB pathway is involved in some forms of cancer such as leukemia, lymphoma, colon cancer and ovarian cancer (Rayet and Gelinas, 1999). The NF-κB family of transcription factors plays important roles in the immune system (Ghosh et al., 1998; Li and Verma 2002; Bonizzi and Karin 2004).
Inflammation and Cancer: the NF-κB Connection. Chronic inflammation is an underlying factor in the development and progression of many of the chronic diseases of aging, such as arthritis, atherosclerosis, diabetes, and cancer. NF-κB and its Relationship to Disease. Altered regulation of NF-κB activity is observed in many genetically-linked diseases and chronic diseases of aging, including cancer. NF-κB activation has been linked to inflammation-driven tumor promotion and progression.
Here, we provide a brief overview of NF-kB biology and discuss the role of NF-kB in mediating theanti-inflammatory effects of tocotrienolsThe NF-kB family of transcription factors is a central player in the regulation of inflammation and immuneresponses. CONCLUSIONS ANDFUTURE DIRECTIONS Overall, available studies are consistent with a role fortocotrienols in reducing NF-kB induction and, thereby, NF-kB–dependent induction of pro-inflammatory cytokine genes,cell cycle regulators, anti-apoptotic genes, and cell adhesionmolecules.
Diseases. NF-kB DISEASES. On this page are listed several diseases in which activation of NF-kB has been implicated. For general reviews on the role of NF-kB in disease, see Aradhya & Nelson (2001), Kumar et al (2004), Yamamoto & Gaynor (2002) or Baldwin (2001). For specific diseases see the listed references, which can be found either on this site (under References) or at PubMed (through the linked references).
Possible new role for NF-kB in the resolution of inflammation. By Arthritis Center. Nuclear factor-kB (NF-kB) is a transcription factor thought to play an important role in onset of inflammation. Thus it is intuitive that NF-kB has become a candidate target for new anti-inflammatory treatments; however, the mechanisms that govern the resolution of inflammation are poorly understood. In this study Lawrence et al (Nature Medicine 7:1291, 2001), investigated the roles of NF-kB in the onset and resolution of inflammation. NF-kB activation in leukocytes during the evolution of inflammation was measured using rat carrageenin-induced pleurisy as a model of acute