Platinum is found uncombined in alluvial deposits. Most commercially produced platinum comes from South Africa, from the mineral cooperite (platinum sulfide). Some platinum is prepared as a by-product of copper and nickel refining. Platinum is used in the chemicals industry as a catalyst for the production of nitric acid, silicone and benzene. It is also used as a catalyst to improve the efficiency of fuel cells. The electronics industry uses platinum for computer hard disks and thermocouples.
Platinum is a chemical element with symbol Pt and atomic number 78. It is a dense, malleable, ductile, highly unreactive, precious, gray-white transition metal. Platinum has six naturally occurring isotopes: 190 Pt, 192 Pt, 194 Pt, 195 Pt, 196 Pt, and 198 Pt. The most abundant of these is 195 Pt, comprising 33.83% of all platinum.
Welcome to Platinum Produce. Platinum Produce Company is a hydroponic greenhouse located in Blenheim, Ontario. Platinum Produce was started in 2003 and has grown to be a reputable hydroponic greenhouse. We currently operate a 30 acre state of the art greenhouse that produces Sweet Bell Peppers. The peppers that are grown in our facility are closely monitored from the beginning of the crop until the final stages which is grading and shipping. Platinum Produce uses automated methods and modern technology to focus on the structure, balance and quality of each pepper that is produced.
Platinum is a rare metal. Unlike other minerals, platinum is largely concentrated around a single geographical location in South Africa; among total 14 million ounces of platinum produced in 2002, 57% was produced in South Africa, followed by 31% in Russia, and lesser amounts in the United States and Zimbabwe. Thus the price and availability of platinum has a major impact on the driving force for transportation. In this report, current usage and production of platinum is reviewed, and a prospect of future platinum supply versus demand is discussed.
The six metals of the platinum group (pgm) occur in nature in close association with one another and with nickel and copper. They are among the least abundant of the Earth's elements. Of the few known deposits, those in South Africa and Russia are by far the largest. 
Naturally, platinum is produced as a by-product in several areas of the world, but this production source is very insignificant. Only South Africa and the CIS (formally known as the USSR) have been blessed with what might be termed deposits of industrial quantities of the Rich Man's Gold.. (5) Relative to volume mined, platinum has many more industrial uses than either silver or gold. In fact more than 50% of the yearly production of platinum is consumed (read destroyed) by industrial uses-unlike gold! (6) Also unlike gold, there are no large inventories of above-ground platinum.
The Platinum Panda is a series of platinum coins of China produced from 1987 to 2005. The series is named after the image of giant panda printed on the reverse of all coins. The People's Bank of China minted 8,300 one-ounce Platinum Panda coins between 1987 and 1990 with a face value of 100 yuan. Canada produced platinum coins from 1988 to 1999, with a 10th anniversary edition in 1989, and a series with a hologram on the reverse in 2002. Their weight ranges from 1/20 to 1 ounce (1.5 to 31.1 g).
Platinum is a member of the platinum group of elements and group 10 of the periodic table of elements. It has six naturally occurring isotopes. It is one of the rarer elements in Earth's crust with an average abundance of approximately 5 μg /kg. Platinum has six naturally occurring isotopes: 190 Pt, 192 Pt, 194 Pt, 195 Pt, 196 Pt, and 198 Pt. The most abundant of these is 195 Pt, comprising 33.83% of all platinum.
Background: The name platinum refers to a mineral, an element and a group of elements. As an element, platinum (chemical symbol Pt) is a silvery-gray metal with an atomic number of 78. It belongs to a group of elements that are in the second and third triads of Group VIII of the Periodic Table of the Elements. 
Platinum grain produced by Anglo American. Image c/o Vismedia. Although platinum most often naturally occurs in placer deposits, platinum and platinum group metal (PGM) miners usually extract the metal from sperrylite and cooperite, two platinum containing ores. Platinum is always found alongside other PGMs