Zinnias love moist soil with good drainage. Sowing Seeds Indoors. Seeds can be planted indoors 6-8 weeks before the last frost and the seedlings can be easily transplanted into your outdoor garden later on. Remember that germination is less successful in cold soil. Moreover, it is best to soak dried seeds in water for 4-6 hours before planting. 
If you wish to start growing zinnia plants from seeds indoors, plant the seeds in peat pots, poo pots (pots made from cow dung) or other biodegradable containers that can be planted directly into the garden later. Start seeds four to six weeks before the last frost date in your area. How to Grow Zinnia Plants. Growing zinnia plants can be inexpensive, particularly when growing them from seed. Seeds of zinnia flowers should usually be sown directly into the sunny flower bed, as developing roots do not like to be disturbed.
Container and Soil. Zinnia plants do not transplant well, therefore, it is best to sow the seeds into 2 1/2- to 4-inch biodegradable peat pots that will break down when planted outside in the soil. Planting the entire pot reduces the transplant shock so the zinnia will have a greater chance of becoming established. These annual flowers will grow in most U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones, as long as they receive full sunlight and grow in fast-draining soil. Growing zinnias from seed indoors will provide your landscape with faster blooming plants once they're transplanted outdoors.
Overview. Zinnias are annual flowers that come in many colors and styles, including single-and double-petaled flower heads. Depending upon the type of zinnias, they can grow from 8 inches to 4 feet tall, so before selecting zinnia seed, consider where they will be planted. Dwarf zinnias do great in pots, while the taller zinnias add a stunning background to any flower bed.
Zinnias are grown from seed. Zinnia seeds can be directly seeded into your flower garden, or seeded indoors for transplanting later. We recommend planting Zinnia seeds in pots and containers indoors, then transplanting them outdoors. This allows you to make the proper spacing and not have to thin seedlings. How to Grow Zinnia Plants: Growing Zinnias is a cinch! They are one of the easiest flower plants to grow in your home flower garden. Grow plants in full sun. They like warm to hot weather. Zinnia plants like rich, well drained soil. But, they are very tolerant of average to slightly poor soils.
Starting garden plants from seeds indoors can be an enjoyable project for any gardener. It's a relatively inexpensive way to grow a wide variety of plants. Many garden favorites are found in a greater variety of colors, sizes and growth habits as seeds, rather than as started plants. 
Zinnias are a popular annual in the flower garden. You can grow zinnias indoors if you grow them under fluorescent grow lights or in a greenhouse. Choose one of the many shorter varieties of zinnias so the pots won't topple as the mass of the top growth surpasses the combined mass of the pot and its soil. Place the pots under fluorescent grow lights as soon as seeds germinate, in about 10 days. Provide a way to raise the lights as the plants grow, keeping them about 3 to 4 inches above the tops of the plants. Alternatively, you can grow zinnias in a heated greenhouse.
Starting zinnia seeds indoors in the spring, four to five weeks prior to the last average spring frost date, will produce starts mature enough for transplanting outdoors. Sowing two seeds in each pot is not required, but will ensure each container produces a plant. Zinnia seeds require a planting depth of 1/4 inch. These annual flowers will grow in most U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones, as long as they receive full sunlight and grow in fast-draining soil. Growing zinnias from seed indoors will provide your landscape with faster blooming plants once they're transplanted outdoors.