Buxus sempervirens (common box, European box, or boxwood), is a species of flowering plant in the genus Buxus, native to western and southern Europe, northwest Africa, and southwest Asia, from southern England south to northern Morocco, and east through the northern Mediterranean region to Turkey. In Britain, three burials of the Roman era featured coffins lined with sprays of the evergreen box, a practice unattested elsewhere in Europe.
Buxus colchica of western Caucasus and B. hyrcana of northern Iran and eastern Caucasus are commonly treated as synonyms of B. sempervirens. In Britain, three burials of the Roman era featured coffins lined with sprays of the evergreen box, a practice unattested elsewhere in Europe.
Garden locations. Buxus sempervirens is typically grown in evenly moist, well-drained loams (e.g., sand-clay mixture) in full sun to part shade. Plants will grow well in a variety of part shade situations, including open sun-dappled conditions or light shade with several hours of morning sun or early afternoon sun
Noteworthy Characteristics. Buxus sempervirens is a rounded to broad-rounded shrub or small tree that is native primarily to open woodlands and rocky hillsides in southern Europe, northern Africa and western Asia. It typically matures in a shrubby form to 5-15' tall, but may grow as a tree to as much as 20-30' tall. Buxus sempervirens is typically grown in evenly moist, well-drained loams (e.g., sand-clay mixture) in full sun to part shade.
Physical Characteristics. Buxus sempervirens is an evergreen Shrub growing to 5 m (16ft) by 5 m (16ft) at a slow rate. It is hardy to zone (UK) 5. It is in leaf 12-Jan It is in flower from Apr to May, and the seeds ripen in September
1. Buxus sempervirens-large slow-growing evergreen shrub or small tree with multiple stems; extensively used for hedges or borders and topiary figures. common box, European box. boxwood, box-evergreen shrubs or small trees. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Buxus sempervirens. Buxus sempervirens, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Buxus, native to western and southern Europe, northwest Africa, and southwest Asia, from southern England south to northern Morocco, and east through the northern Mediterranean region to Turkey. 
Buxus sempervirens is an evergreen shrub or small tree growing to 1–9 m (3 ft 3 in–29 ft 6 in) tall, with a trunk up to 20 centimetres (7.9 in) in diameter (exceptionally to 10 m tall and 45 cm diameter). In Britain, three burials of the Roman era featured coffins lined with sprays of the evergreen box, a practice unattested elsewhere in Europe.
Culture. Buxus sempervirens is typically grown in evenly moist, well-drained loams (e.g., sand-clay mixture) in full sun to part shade. Plants will grow well in a variety of part shade situations, including open sun-dappled conditions or light shade with several hours of morning sun or early afternoon sun
• BUXUS SEMPERVIRENS (noun). The noun BUXUS SEMPERVIRENS has 1 sense: 1. large slow-growing evergreen shrub or small tree with multiple stems; extensively used for hedges or borders and topiary figures. Familiarity information: BUXUS SEMPERVIRENS used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.