FUNGICIDES If you are absolutely sure you have brown patch, the disease can be controlled with fungicides. Several are labeled for brown patch control. Although they are effective, their cost may cause you to reconsider their use. Curing brown patch in a lawn may require an application of fungicide every 14 days. 
Fungicides can be difficult to rely upon for controlling brown patch and large patch in the home lawn, but regular applications can vastly improve appearance. A good rule of thumb to follow on either cool-or warm-season grasses is to initiate fungicide sprays when nighttime low temperatures reach 60 °F. Prevention & Treatment. The best way to prevent brown patch or large patch in the home lawn is by following good lawn care practices. This is much easier and less expensive than the use of fungicides and can be very effective. 1  Avoid high rates of nitrogen fertilizer on cool-season grasses in the late spring and summer.
B rown patch is a very common lawn disease that is caused by the fungus Rhizoctonia solani. It is very prevalent in warm and humid areas attacking all different types of grasses like St. Augustine grass and Kentucky bluegrass. The disease appears in circular patches of dead grass sometimes in diameters of many feet. You can cure brown patch by using a contact fungicide. It is important that you treat the disease as soon as possible and continue to apply fungicide for several weeks after or as long as humid, warm weather persists.
Brown patch is caused by a species of fungus called Rhizoctonia. It effects all cool season lawn grasses but is especially harmful to ryegrass and tall fescue. Kentucky bluegrass and fine fescues can occasionally be effected but damage is usually minimal in these species. 
Rhizoctania solani. Brown Patch, which is also known as large patch, is a common soil-borne fungus that attacks a variety of plants including almost all turfgrasses. It is most common to Bermuda, Kentucky Bluegrass, Centipede Grass, Bentgrass, St. Augustine, and ryegrasses in regions with high humidity and/or shade. 
Brown patch is really a summer lawn disease that’s caused by a fungus called Rhizoctonia. The disease begins to show growth when temperatures reach 65°, but the most active growth of brown patch lawn disease occurs at temperatures of 80-85° when humidity levels are very high. “Brown Patch is the most damaging turf grass disease”. Brown patch lawn disease is one of the most destructive of all turf grass diseases. It sneaks up on you and destroys large areas of turf virtually overnight when the weather conditions are just right.
Rhizoctonia solani. Mycelium of Rhizoctonia solani on perennial ryegrass. Brown patch is a major summer disease of lawns and golf courses.The most susceptible grass species include perennial ryegrass, tall fescue, and the bentgrasses. Occasionally, brown patch becomes a problem on Kentucky bluegrasses in mid-to late summer during extended periods of high temperature and humidity. Info. Mycelium of Rhizoctonia solani on perennial ryegrass. Brown patch is a major summer disease of lawns and golf courses.The most susceptible grass species include perennial ryegrass, tall fescue, and the bentgrasses.
Brown patch is a turfgrass disease that is caused by the Rhizoctonia species fungus. This turfgrass disease is most common Brown patch can be found in all of the cool season turfgrasses found in the United States. Brown patch is most devastating to: Bentgrass (Agrostis sp.), ryegrass (Lolium sp.), Annual bluegrass (Poa annua), and Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea). Brown patch is also found in Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) and Fine fescue (Festuca sp.) but this is rare or does minimal damage. Brown patch is known as a foliar disease, so it does not have any effect on the crown or roots of the turf plant