Marconi went on to introduce short wave transmission in 1922. Marconi was not the first to invent the radio, however. Four years before Marconi started experimenting with wireless telegraph, Nikola Tesla, a Serb who moved to the USA in 1884, invented the theoretical model for radio. Marconi’s first radio transmissions, in 1896, were coded signals that were transmitted only about a mile (1,6 km) far. Marconi realized that it held huge potential. He offered the invention to the Italian government but they turned it down.
Twenty years after the telephone was invented and music was first sent down a telephone line, Guglielmo Marconi sent radio signals. Marconi (1874-1937) was born in Italy and studied at the University of Bologna. Marconi’s first radio transmissions, in 1896, were coded signals that were transmitted only about a mile (1,6 km) far. Marconi realized that it held huge potential. He offered the invention to the Italian government but they turned it down.
In 1855 provided the first demonstration of wireless communication, and then in 1895 Guglielmo Marconi sent the first radio signal. Radio developed from wireless telegraphy towards the end of the 19th century. However, numerous discoveries by other … people, such as Armstrong, Hertz, and Tesla lead up to the actual invention of radio. Guglielmo Marconi invented the first functioning transmitting/receiving radio in about 1895, somewhere in Britain.
Thomas Edison contributed to the first radio invention in 1885. He was working on an electrostatic coupling system. Edison applied for a patent and in 1891 the patent was finally granted. Several years later, the rights were sold to the Marconi Company. 
Where the Radio was InventedThe first radio transmission took place in Italy and was credited to Guglielmo Marconi, an Italian inventor. However, numerous discoveries by other … people, such as Armstrong, Hertz, and Tesla lead up to the actual invention of radio. Guglielmo Marconi invented the first functioning transmitting/receiving radio in about 1895, somewhere in Britain. The first factory producing radios was in Chelmsford, UK in 1898, by Marconi's The Wireless Telegraph & Signal Company
Guglielmo Marconi: an Italian inventor, proved the feasibility of radio communication. He sent and received his first radio signal in Italy in 1895. By 1899 he flashed the first wireless signal across the English Channel and two years later received the letter S, telegraphed from England to Newfoundland.
After Hertz's work many people were involved in further development of the electronic components and methods to improve the transmission and detection of electromagnetic waves. Around the turn of the 20th century Guglielmo Marconi, developed the first apparatus for long distance radio communication. Reginald A. Fessenden became the first to send audio (wireless telephony) by means of electromagnetic waves in 1907. By 1910 these systems had come to be referred to by the common name radio. Marconi's demonstrations of the use of radio for wireless communications, equipping ships with life saving wireless communications, establishing the first transatlantic radio service, and building the first stations for the British shortwave service, have marked his place in history.
* Guglielmo Marconi, an Italian inventor, proved the feasibility of radio communication. He sent and received his first radio signal in Italy in 1895. By 1899 he flashed the first wireless signal across the English Channel and two years later received the letter S, telegraphed from England to Newfoundland. However, numerous discoveries by other … people, such as Armstrong, Hertz, and Tesla lead up to the actual invention of radio. Guglielmo Marconi invented the first functioning transmitting/receiving radio in about 1895, somewhere in Britain.
Meanwhile, Marconi had been conducting his own experiments and in 1896, sent and received Morse code-based radio signals at distances spanning nearly 4 miles (6 kilometers) in England. That same year, he applied for, and was granted, the world's first patent in wireless telegraphy in England [source: Nobel Prize ]. Tesla applied for his first patents in radio work in 1897 in America. But more than 100 years later, ask any two people who invented the radio and you're likely to get two different answers. The story is a murky one that mixes scientific discovery with lawsuits and good old-fashioned marketing. Let's see if we can untangle the threads.
Italian inventor and radio pioneer Guglielmo Marconi in front of a telegraph in the laboratory aboard his yacht Electra, circa 1935. But more than 100 years later, ask any two people who invented the radio and you're likely to get two different answers. The story is a murky one that mixes scientific discovery with lawsuits and good old-fashioned marketing. Let's see if we can untangle the threads.