by olivia. Director vs Managing Director. Director is a higher executive post in a business organization that comes with many prefixes, and there may be many directors in a large organization. If nothing is specified, it can be assumed that a director is a person belonging to the board of directors. As per law, a director is known more by what their job is rather than their job title. Thus, we can have an executive director or a managing director where the title says it all.
An executive director within a company or an organization is usually from the board of directors and oversees a specific department within the organization such as Marketing, Finance, Production and IT. 
Show more usage examples... The managing director of this company will be here tomorrow for a discussion about the company's achievement for this quarter and our new goals for the rest of the year. 7 people found this helpful. Managing director is generally more common in British English than in American English.
Managing director job description. As the managing director of a company, you're the head honcho. You're the one that's in charge of the whole company, from the day to day stuff to the really big picture problems. You'll be held accountable when things go right – but also when they go wrong. Money, money, money. As you might expect, the salary for a managing director can be high – which is pretty much a reflection of the high level of responsibility you have. That said, it can vary hugely depending on the size of the organisation and the sector.
As the managing director of a company, you're the head honcho. You're the one that's in charge of the whole company, from the day to day stuff to the really big picture problems. Money, money, money. As you might expect, the salary for a managing director can be high – which is pretty much a reflection of the high level of responsibility you have. That said, it can vary hugely depending on the size of the organisation and the sector.
The Difference Between CEO, President & Managing Director. Chief executive officers serve as the public faces of their companies. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. The corporate titles of chief executive officer, president and managing director carry distinctly different meanings. Chief executive officers serve as companies' strategists and cheerleaders, with the implementation of objectives left to senior management. Managing directors act like CEOs, but operate in the two-tiered corporate board setup characteristic of British firms.
The duties of a managing director include overseeing employees and meeting goals. A managing director is someone who is responsible for the daily operations of a company, organization, or corporate division. A managing director may also be called a chief executive officer.. A managing director is responsible for leading teams to meet the company's goals. A company may have several managing directors in charge of various semi-autonomous business unit
Managing Directors. The managing director is a British phenomenon who acts like a CEO, but in a different environment than his U.S. counterpart. About 79 percent of British firms split power between CEOs and an independent board chairman, The Wall Street Journal noted in March 2009. Chief executive officers serve as companies' strategists and cheerleaders, with the implementation of objectives left to senior management. Managing directors act like CEOs, but operate in the two-tiered corporate board setup characteristic of British firms.