Best Answer: Actually, the cacao 'bean' is a seed. Cocoa bean (also cacao bean,[1] often simply cocoa and cacao; Mayan: kakaw; Nahuatl: cacaua) is the dried and fully fermented fatty seed of Theobroma cacao, from which cocoa solids and cocoa butter are extracted. They are the basis of chocolate, as well as many Mesoamerican foods such as mole sauce and tejate.
The interesting thing to note about carob is that coming from a legume, you’d assume it isn’t Paleo. However, it is the seeds found nested in the carob flesh that contain the bulk of defense mechanisms and anti-nutrients such as phytic acid. We don’t eat the seeds; we eat the fleshy fruit in the pod itself. They look like chocolate, but as chocolate lovers know, they’re definitely not chocolate. In many health food spheres, carob, in powdered or solid form, is often used as a substitute for chocolate in anything from baked goods and hot chocolate to dry rubs and sauces.
Chocolate /ˈtʃɒkᵊlət/ is a typically sweet, usually brown, food preparation of Theobroma cacao seeds, roasted and ground, often flavored, as with vanilla. It is made in the form of a liquid, paste, or in a block, or used as a flavoring ingredient in other sweet foods. Semisweet chocolate is a dark chocolate with a low sugar content. Bittersweet chocolate is chocolate liquor to which some sugar (typically a third), more cocoa butter, vanilla, and sometimes lecithin have been added. It has less sugar and more liquor than semisweet chocolate, but the two are interchangeable in baking.
Legumes are members of family Fabaceae (legumes) and subfamily Faboideae (edible legumes). Legumes include soybeans, green beans, sweet peas, chickpeas, lentils, fenugreek seeds, peanuts, clover sprouts, alfalfa sprouts, rooibos tea, honeybush tea, astragalus root powder, and all common beans. A melon is not a legume-legumes grow in pods such as beans and peas, lentils, peanuts, clover, lupins and soy.
My daughter is allergic to beans, peanuts, soy, so we have made the assumption that she is allergic to the whole legume family, including carob bean which eliminates all cholocate and other foods. He is very allergic to peanuts but the two legumes mentioned cause him to have local facial hives when eating just abit. He has no breathing difficulties after trying them but we still avoid most legumes. He regularly eats carob bean(in alot of products) and he has eaten Libby's brown beans without any trouble.
An example of a legume is any kind of bean: kidney bean, pinto bean, lima bean Common legumes include soybeans, lentils, alfalfa, clover and peas. Other legumes include bean … s (navy, green, yellow, kidney, etc.), sainfoin, trefoil, vetch, chickpeas, peanuts, and lupins. 7 people found this useful. A melon is not a legume-legumes grow in pods such as beans and peas, lentils, peanuts, clover, lupins and soy.
The cocoa bean, also cacao bean or simply cocoa (/ˈkoʊ.koʊ/) or cacao (/kəˈkaʊ/), is the dried and fully fermented fatty seed of Theobroma cacao, from which cocoa solids and cocoa butter are extracted. They are the basis of chocolate, as well as many Mesoamerican foods such as mole sauce and tejate. 
The allergy cookbook I have confirms that. Neither coffee or chocolate is of the legume family-I have heard some people mistakenly believe that an allergy to legumes means all beans but that's kind of like believing that coconuts fall under a nut allergy. 
It tastes great with a chocolate-like flavor but without the health risks, additives, or contamination that comes with chocolate. Carob is a legume that comes from the carob tree (Ceratonia siliqua), an evergreen tree native to the Mediterranean (it is actually a shrub that is trained into tree form by pruning). Today it is also grown in other warm climates including Florida and the southwestern United States. 