It can also be referred to as an Internet Phone. VoIP (Voice over IP) enables you to make cheap telephone calls over a broadband Internet connection, (usually a DSL, broadband cable connection, or T1), instead of using your regular telephone service.
Photo: VoIP means making telephone calls using your computer, with the sound of your voice converted to digital data that travels over the Internet using the Internet Protocol—in other words, in exactly the same way as Web pages, downloads, emails, or any other Internet data. 
1 ATA -- The simplest and most common way is through the use of a device called an ATA (analog telephone adaptor). 2  The ATA allows you to connect a standard phone to your computer or your Internet connection for use with VoIP. 3  The ATA is an analog-to-digital converter. You should be able to download and set it up in about three to five minutes. Get a friend to download the software, too, and you can start tinkering with VoIP to get a feel for how it works. Next, we'll look at exactly how VoIP is used.
How Voice over IP (VoIP) works is a mystery to some small business owners and employees. But if you understand how it works, you can more easily use the technology to your company's advantage. How VoIP works for your business is simple: By adding voice to a data network, you’ll reduce costs, improve productivity, and enhance collaboration. 1  You'll save money by having one network to manage instead of two.
Voice over IP (VoIP) is a methodology and group of technologies for the delivery of voice communications and multimedia sessions over Internet Protocol (IP) networks, such as the Internet. Other terms commonly associated with VoIP are IP telephony, Internet telephony, broadband telephony, and broadband phone service. VoIP systems employ session control and signaling protocols to control the signaling, set-up, and tear-down of calls. They transport audio streams over IP networks using special media delivery protocols that encode voice, audio, video with audio codecs, and video codecs as Digital audio by streaming media.
1 The ATA allows you to connect a standard phone to your computer or your Internet connection for use with VoIP. 2  The ATA is an analog-to-digital converter. You should be able to download and set it up in about three to five minutes. Get a friend to download the software, too, and you can start tinkering with VoIP to get a feel for how it works. Next, we'll look at exactly how VoIP is used.
1 With VoIP, analog voice calls are converted into packets of data. 2  The packets travel like any other type of data, such as e-mail, over the public Internet and/or any private Internet Protocol (IP) network. 3  Using a VoIP service, you can call landline or cell phones. How VoIP works for your business is simple: By adding voice to a data network, you’ll reduce costs, improve productivity, and enhance collaboration. 1  You'll save money by having one network to manage instead of two.
How VoIP Works: At a Glance. 1  With VoIP, analog voice calls are converted into packets of data. 2  Using a VoIP service, you can call landline or cell phones. 3  When evaluating, it's worth noting that you can make or receive calls using landline telephones. How VoIP works for your business is simple: By adding voice to a data network, you’ll reduce costs, improve productivity, and enhance collaboration. 1  You'll save money by having one network to manage instead of two.
Just plug your SIP phone into the internet connection, configure it and then dial the other person right over the internet. In all VoIP systems, your voice is converted into packets of data, like little files, and then transmitted to the recipient over the internet and decoded back into your voice at the other end. VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) is simply the transmission of voice traffic over IP-based networks. The Internet Protocol (IP) was originally designed for data networking. The success of IP in becoming a world standard for data networking has led to its adaptation to voice networking