From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Aldosterone is a steroid hormone (mineralocorticoid family) produced by the outer section (zona glomerulosa) of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland. 
An aldosterone (ALD) test measures the amount of ALD in your blood. It is also called an aldosterone serum test. ALD is a hormone made by the adrenal glands. It affects blood pressure. It also regulates sodium (salt) and potassium in the blood. This affects your fluid levels. Too much ALD can contribute to high blood pressure. It can also cause low potassium levels. When your body makes too much ALD, it is called aldosteronism.
Why It Is Done. An aldosterone test is done to: 1  Measure the amount of aldosterone released into the body by the adrenal glands. 2  Check for a tumor in the adrenal glands. 3  Find the cause of high blood pressure or low blood potassium levels. High levels of both renin and aldosterone are normally present when the body is trying to conserve fluid and salt (sodium). When a tumor that makes aldosterone is present, your aldosterone level will be high while a renin level will be low. Usually a renin activity test is done when the aldosterone level is measured
The aldosterone hormone is a hormone produced by the adrenal gland. The hormone acts mainly in the functional unit of the kidneys to aid in the conservation of sodium, secretion of potassium, water retention and to stabilize blood pressure. Aldosterone belongs to a class of hormones called mineral corticoids, also produced by the adrenal glands. Aldosterone helps maintain blood pressure (BP) and water and salt balance in the body by helping the kidneys retain sodium and excrete potassium.
An aldosterone test measures the level of aldosterone (a hormone made by the adrenal glands), in the blood. Aldosterone helps regulate sodium and potassium levels in the body. High levels of both renin and aldosterone are normally present when the body is trying to conserve fluid and salt (sodium). When a tumor that makes aldosterone is present, your aldosterone level will be high while a renin level will be low. Usually a renin activity test is done when the aldosterone level is measured
Aldosterone: A hormone produced by the outer portion (cortex) of the adrenal gland. Aldosterone regulates the balance of water and electrolytes in the body, encouraging the kidney to excrete potassium into the urine and retain sodium, thereby retaining water. It is classified as a mineralocorticoid hormone. 
An aldosterone test measures the level of aldosterone (a hormone made by the adrenal glands), in the blood. Aldosterone helps regulate sodium and potassium levels in the body. This helps control blood pressure and the balance of fluids and electrolytes in the blood. The kidney hormone renin normally stimulates the adrenal glands to release aldosterone. High levels of both renin and aldosterone are normally present when the body is trying to conserve fluid and salt (sodium). An aldosterone test is done to: 1  Measure the amount of aldosterone released into the body by the adrenal glands. 2  Check for a tumor in the adrenal glands. 3  Find the cause of high blood pressure or low blood potassium levels. 4  This is done when overactive adrenal glands or an abnormal adrenal growth are suspected.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Aldosterone is a mineralocorticoid hormone that is essential to life because it regulates the amounts of electrolytes in the body. It's secreted by the adrenal cortex, part of the adrenal gland, and is responsible for the reabsorption of sodium into the bloodstream. Aldosterone is a mineralocorticoid hormone that is essential to life because it regulates the amounts of electrolytes in the body