Stearic acid is a common fatty acid found in significant amounts in meat, poultry, fish, eggs, butter, grains, and milk products. Some websites have misleading information regarding the safety of magnesium stearate. 
Magnesium stearate in supplements. Magnesium stearate is a white substance, solid at room temperature, used in the manufacture of pharmaceutical and supplement tablets and capsules. It is composed of magnesium and stearic acid, and oftentimes, palmitic acid as well. Hydrogenated oils are a common source for the magnesium stearate used in pharmaceuticals and supplements. The stearates are made by hydrogenating cottonseed or palm oil. Cottonseed oil has the highest content of pesticide residues of all commercial oils; cotton crops are heavily sprayed.
Glyceryl Stearate and Glyceryl Stearate SE are esterification products of glycerin and stearic acid. Glyceryl Stearate is used as a skin conditioning agent-emollient and a surfactant-emulsifying agent in cosmetics and personal care products. Glyceryl Stearate SE is produced by reacting an excess of stearic acid with glycerin. The excess stearic acid is then reacted with potassium and/or sodium hydroxide yielding a product that contains Glyceryl Stearate as well as potassium stearate and/or sodium stearate.
The salts and esters of stearic acid are called stearates. As its ester, stearic acid is one of the most common saturated fatty acids found in nature following palmitic acid. The triglyceride derived from three molecules of stearic acid is called stearin. Production [edit]. Stearic acid is obtained from fats and oils by the saponification of the triglycerides using hot water (above 200 °C). The resulting mixture is then distilled. Commercial stearic acid is often a mixture of stearic and palmitic acids, although purified stearic acid is available.
Chemically, Glyceryl Stearate is used to stabilize products, decrease water evaporation, make products freeze-resistant, and keep them from forming surface crusts. Glyceryl Stearate reduces the greasiness of oils used in certain cosmetics and personal care products, according to CosmeticsInfo.org. Functions: Glyceryl Stearate is derived from palm kernel, vegetable or soy oil and is also found naturally in the human body. It acts as a lubricant on the skin’s surface, which gives the skin a soft and smooth appearance (Source).
Glyceryl Stearate and Glyceryl Stearate SE are esterification products of glycerin and stearic acid. Glyceryl Stearate is a white or cream-colored wax-like solid. Glyceryl Stearate SE is a Self-Emulsifying form of Glyceryl Stearate that also contains a small amount of sodium and or potassium stearate. Glyceryl Stearate SE is produced by reacting an excess of stearic acid with glycerin. The excess stearic acid is then reacted with potassium and/or sodium hydroxide yielding a product that contains Glyceryl Stearate as well as potassium stearate and/or sod
Magnesium stearate is often found as a combined product of stearic acid and according to That's Fit, it is made by the hydrogenation of cottonseed or palm oil. Cottonseed oil has the highest content of pesticide residues of all commercial oils, and it coats the nutrients that are found in supplements. Stearic acid, combined with magnesium forms the stearate; the acid is found in nature in many of the foods that are widely consumed such as poultry, fish, meat, eggs, butter, milk products, grains, cocoa, coconut and many others. You Might Also Like.
Glyceryl Stearate is also used to stabilize a product, decrease water evaporation, make the product freeze-resistant, and keep it from forming surface crusts. Glyceryl Stearate reduces the greasiness of oils used in certain cosmetics and personal care products. Glyceryl Stearate SE is produced by reacting an excess of stearic acid with glycerin. The excess stearic acid is then reacted with potassium and/or sodium hydroxide yielding a product that contains Glyceryl Stearate as well as potassium stearate and/or sodium stearate.
Magnesium stearate, also called octadecanoic acid, magnesium salt, is a white substance, powder which becomes solid at room temperature. It has the chemical formula Mg(C 18H 35O 2) 2. It is a salt containing two equivalents of stearate (the anion of stearic acid) and one magnesium cation (Mg 2+). Magnesium stearate melts at about 88 °C, is not soluble in water, and is generally considered safe for human consumption at levels below 2500 mg/kg per day.
Stearic acid (STAIR-ik or STEER-ik) is a saturated fatty acid with an 18-carbon chain and has the IUPAC name octadecanoic acid. It is a waxy solid and its chemical formula is C 17 H 35 CO 2 H. Its name comes from the Greek word στέαρ stear , stéar which means. tallow Production [edit]. Stearic acid is obtained from fats and oils by the saponification of the triglycerides using hot water (above 200 °C). The resulting mixture is then distilled. Commercial stearic acid is often a mixture of stearic and palmitic acids, although purified stearic acid is available.