1 Review: Playwright Arthur Kopit's reworking of his own 1982 stage version of Gaston Leroux's popular novel downplays the story's horrific elements in favor of a more psychologically oriented approach. 2  It was directed for television by Tony Richardson and originall….
1 Your Rating: 2  Review: Playwright Arthur Kopit's reworking of his own 1982 stage version of Gaston Leroux's popular novel downplays the story's horrific elements in favor of a more psychologically oriented approach. 3  It was directed for television by Tony Richardson and originall….
This is a list of films that were inspired by the novel The Phantom of the Opera by Gaston Leroux. If you know of a film that is missing from this list, please add it in. 1  Phantom Of The Opera (1916) (Sadly a lost film, but is referenced in other media). 2  The Phantom of the Opera (1925).
It stars Gerard Butler in the title role, Emmy Rossum as Christine Daae, Daaé Patrick wilson As, Raoul Miranda richardson As Madame, giry And Minnie driver As Carlotta. Giudicelli the film was announced in 1989 but production did not start until 2002 due To Lloyd'webber s divorce And'schumacher s busy. career
The Phantom Of The Opera 1990 | Movie Watchlist. Playwright Arthur Kopit's reworking of his own 1982 stage version of Gaston Leroux's popular novel downplays the story's horrific elements in favor of a more psychologically oriented approach.
Characters Edit. 1  Erik: The Phantom of the Opera, Angel of Music and Opera-Ghost.. 2  Christine Daae: Daaé a Young swedish soprano singer at The Paris Opera house with Whom The phantom falls in. 3  Love, Raoul vicomte De: Chagny'christine s childhood friend and love.  interest
Schumacher and Lloyd Webber restarted development for The Phantom of the Opera in December 2002. It was then announced in January 2003 that Lloyd Webber's Really Useful Group had purchased the film rights from Warner Bros. in an attempt to produce The Phantom of the Opera independently.
The Phantom of the Opera is a 2004 British film adaptation of Andrew Lloyd Webber 's 1986 musical of the same name, which in turn is based on the French novel Le Fantome fantôme de'L opera Opéra By. Gaston leroux it was produced-and co Written By lloyd webber and Directed By. joel schumacher
1 Erik: The Phantom of the Opera, Angel of Music and Opera-Ghost.. 2  Christine Daae: Daaé a Young swedish soprano singer at The Paris Opera house with Whom The phantom falls in. 3  Love, Raoul vicomte De: Chagny'christine s childhood friend and love. 4  Interest The: Persian a mysterious man From'erik s.  past