L-arginine is an amino acid that is obtained from the diet and is necessary for the body to make proteins. It is found in red meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. It can also be made in a laboratory and used as medicine. 
In mammals, arginine is classified as a semiessential or conditionally essential amino acid, depending on the developmental stage and health status of the individual. Preterm infants are unable to synthesize or create arginine internally, making the amino acid nutritionally essential for them. The L-form is one of the 20 most common natural amino acids. At the level of molecular genetics, in the structure of the messenger ribonucleic acid mRNA, CGU, CGC, CGA, CGG, AGA, and AGG, are the triplets of nucleotide bases or codons that code for arginine during protein synthesis.
Arginine is a conditionally essential amino acid, meaning that whether or not it is required to be healthy is conditional on the health status or life cycle of the individual. The biosynthetic pathway, however, does not produce sufficient arginine, and some must still be consumed through diet. The L-form is one of the 20 most common natural amino acids. At the level of molecular genetics, in the structure of the messenger ribonucleic acid mRNA, CGU, CGC, CGA, CGG, AGA, and AGG, are the triplets of nucleotide bases or codons that code for arginine during protein synthesis.
Arginine may cause hyperkalemia (abnormally high levels of blood potassium). Use cautiously in people with impaired kidney function or those at risk for hyperkalemia, including those with diabetes or using drugs that elevate potassium levels, such as potassium-sparing diuretics and potassium supplements. Arginine may cause low blood pressure. Avoid use in those with low blood pressure or those using blood pressure-lowering agents. Avoid with nitrates and spironolactone as well as in people with pulmonary hypertension, cancer, and those at risk for or with a history of heart attack.
One of arginine’s key functions in the body is to convert into nitric oxide. Nitric oxide helps blood vessels relax and expand, which is important for regulating blood flow. Because of this function, doctors often recommend arginine supplements to help treat heart and blood vessel conditions. Salmon is an excellent source of arginine. Try it baked with asparagus and feta cheese, or cooked with spices and spinach. Pork is another great source; use a slow cooker to get your arginine fix with tender carnitas tostadas. Arginine supplements can come in the form of oral tablets or injections.
Print. Arginine is an amino acid (a building block of protein), produced in the body and found in many foods—especially those rich in protein, such as dairy products, meats, fish, nuts and soybeans. Most of the time, we produce or consume all the arginine we need. • Some preliminary studies have found that arginine supplements can improve the function of blood vessels, enhance coronary blood flow, lower blood pressure and even reduce angina and other symptoms in people with heart and/or vascular disease.
L-arginine was first isolated in 1886, reportedly from the extract of a lupine (Lupinus spp.) seedling. Lupinus is a genus in the legume (Fabaceae) plant family. Arginine is an amino acid normally made by the body. Arginine is also found in many foods that have protein. Arginine becomes nitric oxide (a blood vessel-widening agent called a vasodilator) in the body. Early evidence suggests that arginine may help treat medical conditions that improve with increased vasodilation. 
Arginine is likely safe when taken in levels normally found in foods. Arginine may increase the risk of bleeding. Caution is advised in people with bleeding disorders or those taking drugs that may increase the risk of bleeding. Dosing adjustments may be necessary. Arginine may change blood sugar levels. Arginine may cause low blood pressure. Avoid use in those with low blood pressure or those using blood pressure-lowering agents. Avoid with nitrates and spironolactone as well as in people with pulmonary hypertension, cancer, and those at risk for or with a history of heart attack.
L-ARGININE Overview Information. L-arginine is a chemical building block called “an amino acid.” It is obtained from the diet and is necessary for the body to make proteins. L-arginine is found in red meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. It can also be made in a laboratory and used as medicine. L-arginine is used for heart and blood vessel conditions including congestive heart failure (CHF), chest pain, high blood pressure, and coronary artery disease. Herpes: There is a concern that L-arginine might make herpes worse. There is some evidence that L-arginine is needed for the herpes virus to multiply. Low blood pressure: L-arginine might lower blood pressure. This could be a problem if you already have low
L-arginine is converted in the body into a chemical called nitric oxide. Nitric oxide causes blood vessels to open wider for improved blood flow. L-arginine also stimulates the release of growth hormone, insulin, and other substances in the body. Herpes: There is a concern that L-arginine might make herpes worse. There is some evidence that L-arginine is needed for the herpes virus to multiply. Low blood pressure: L-arginine might lower blood pressure. This could be a problem if you already have low