The management is the same as that of the same as that of the torus palatinus. A buccal exostosis is the formation of an exostosis (bone mass) on the outer, cheek-facing side of the maxilla (upper jaw) just above the teeth or the cheek-facing side of the mandible (lower jaw). They are less common on the lower jaw. They begin to develop in early adulthood and may very slowly enlarge over years. 
An exostosis is a thickening of bone around the teeth. A torus (plural tori) is a larger area of bone, and can appear in two forms: 1  Found on the middle of the hard palate or. 2  On the gums adjacent to the tongue. It is also possible to have a bony growth that doesn’t belong there. Cancers called osteomas and sarcomas can form cause unusual bone growth in the mouth. In virtually all cases, these growths lack symmetry, growing on just one side of the mouth or notably large on one side than the other.
Malocclusion occurs when the teeth do not align properly. When the teeth are not aligned, the jaw joint experiences higher levels of stress and tension as the jaw joint is put into a torque position that then encourage the growth of tori. At the same time, malocclusion can also cause pain and discomfort. 
Top 10 facts about the world. Exostosis is a benign bony outgrowth. It can occur anywhere in the body, and may be caused by a number of different things, ranging from environmental stresses to genetics. When someone develops an exostosis, the outgrowth may become painful or aesthetically displeasing, in which case surgery is a treatment option. In other cases, the growth may be allowed to remain, with a doctor keeping an eye on it to identify any early signs of complications which may emerge.
Very rarely are they on the skull. They normally form on the bones of joints, and can grow upwards. For example, if an extra bone formed on the ankle, it might grow up to the shin. When used in the phrases Cartilaginous exostosis or Osteocartilaginous exostosis, it is considered synonymous with Osteochondroma.
An exostosis (plural: exostoses) is the formation of new bone on the surface of a bone, because of excess calcium forming. Exostoses can cause chronic pain ranging from mild to debilitatingly severe, depending on the shape, size, and location of the lesion. For example, if an extra bone formed on the ankle, it might grow up to the shin. When used in the phrases Cartilaginous exostosis or Osteocartilaginous exostosis, it is considered synonymous with Osteochondroma.
A fairly common occurrence in the mouth is the existence of extra bone development along the outside or inside of the jawline near the teeth, or in the roof of the mouth. Referred to as exostosis, tori or a torus, these bony growths in the mouth are typically bumpy with a round appearance. Tori, Exostosis, and Extra Bone Formation in the Mouth. A fairly common occurrence in the mouth is the existence of extra bone development along the outside or inside of the jawline near the teeth, or in the roof of…. Read More...
1 Buccal exostosis – this type is painless. 2  Retrocalcaneal exostosis – this is a painful bump and you may also have tenderness, swelling, or redness along the bony prominence on the back side of your heel. 3  The pain usually becomes worse when wearing shoes that rub the back of your heel or with any type of activity. An exostosis can be caused by many different things ranging from genetics to environmental stress. 1  Environmental stress – one example of this is if the bone grows into your ear canal and becomes known as surfer’s ear.