SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. In order to perform physical activity, your muscles require oxygenated blood to circulate at an increased rate. The more oxygen your body needs to perform the exercise, the higher your breathing and heart rate will be. Although you haven't begun to tax your muscles before exercise, your breathing rate will speed up to prepare your body for the increased cardiovascular expenditure. Function. Since your body needs oxygen as a constant energy source during exercise, the anticipatory response that elevates your breathing and heart rate before exercise allows you to make the transition from inactivity to high energy output more easily.
While exercising, the level of carbon dioxide in the blood increases due to increased cellular respiration by the muscles, and so breathing rate increases. When carbon dioxide levels increase in the blood, it reacts with the water in blood, producing carbonic acid. During vigorous exercise, ventilation can be increased from the resting level of about 8 litres per minute to well over 90 litres per minute (may be as high as 120 litres per minute) through an increase in the rate and depth of breathing.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: When you use energy you are using oxygen to break down glucose onto energy (and carbon dioxide). During exercise you are using more energy so you need more oxygen; and to get the oxygen to the muscles the blood needs to move quicker (so you heart rate increases). (You are also getting rid of carbon dioxide). Source(s): chem math phy ICT man · 8 years ago.
When you work out, your muscles move from a resting state to an active one, and they need more oxygen to do their work. Your body accomplishes this by forcing more oxygen-rich blood to flow through your body. During exercise, your breathing rate increases, and you also take in more air with each individual breath. Your lungs take in that increased oxygen, which mixes with your blood, and then goes to your heart, a highly effective pump that delivers blood to the rest of your body. Your body produces more heat during exercise as well. An increase in blood flow also allows the skin to dissipate heat more effectively.
During exercise, your breathing rate increases so your muscles can get more oxygen. Photo Credit mother and daughter exercising image by Galina Barskaya from Fotolia.com. Exercise helps keep you fit and healthy by strengthening your muscles and making your heart beat faster. Your muscles, lungs, and heart all work together to move your body and make sure you are getting enough oxygen. This results in an increase in your breathing rate, or rate of ventilation. Your muscles are pushing your blood back to your heart at a faster rate, so your heart must increase its rate of pumping to match. Some of the blood pumped by the heart travels to the lungs to get rid of carbon dioxide and pick up oxygen. The increase in heart rate stimulates your breathing rate.
Heart Rate. In order to reap the benefits of exercise, your heart and breathing rates must increase. Your muscles are pushing your blood back to your heart at a faster rate, so your heart must increase its rate of pumping to match. Some of the blood pumped by the heart travels to the lungs to get rid of carbon dioxide and pick up oxygen. The increase in heart rate stimulates your breathing rate. With an increase in heart rate, your blood pumps through your muscles at a faster rate, leaving less time for oxygen uptake. Having more oxygen available in the blood, from a faster breathing rate, helps the muscles get the amount they need
Why does heart rate and breathing rate increase during exercise. 1. When you exercise your muscles contract more frequently, which means they use more energy. 2. To replace this energy your body needs to do more aerobic respiration, so it needs to take in more oxygen and breathe out more CO2. 3. 
The effect of exercise on pulse and breathing rate. Exercise increases the rate at which energy is needed from food. This increases the need for both food and oxygen in the body. This is why your pulse rate and breathing rate increase with exercise. Your pulse is just an indication of your heart rate as your arteries expand each timethe ventricles pump blood out of the heart. 