Image source: USGS. CRUST --The thin, outermost layer of the earth is called the crust. It makes up only one percent of the earth's mass. This consists of the continents and ocean basins. The crust has varying thickness, ranging between 35-70 km thick in the continents and 5-10 km thick in the ocean basins. CORE-Below the mantle is the core. It makes up nearly one third the mass of the earth. The Earth's core is actually made up of two distinct parts: a 2,200 km-thick liquid outer core and a 1,250 km-thick solid inner core.
Earth has multiple layers. The ocean basins and the continents compose the crust, the outermost layer. Earth's crust is between three and 46 miles (five and 75 km) deep. The thickest parts are under the continents and the thinnest parts are under the oceans. Crust. Earth's crust is made up of several elements: oxygen, 47 percent; silicon, 27 percent; aluminum, 8 percent; iron, 5 percent; calcium, 4 percent; magnesium, potassium and sodium, 2 percent. At the center of the Earth is the core, which has two parts. The solid, inner core of iron has a radius of about 760 miles (about 1,220 km). It is surrounded by a liquid, outer core composed of a nickel-iron alloy. It is about 1,355 miles (2,180 km) thick.
The Earth's Crust is like the skin of an apple. It is very thin in comparison to the other three layers. The crust is only about 3-5 miles (8 kilometers) thick under the oceans(oceanic crust) and about 25 miles (32 kilometers) thick under the continents (continental crust). It is the largest layer of the Earth, 1800 miles thick. The mantle is composed of very hot, dense rock. This layer of rock even flows like asphalt under a heavy weight. This flow is due to great temperature differences from the bottom to the top of the mantle.
Sitting on top of the outer core, we find the mantle. This layer is by far the thickest layer of Earth, about 1,800 miles thick! It also makes up about 85% of Earth's volume. Like the core, the mantle contains mostly iron, but in the form of silicate rocks. You might be surprised to learn that this rock actually moves like a fluid, similar to how silly putty moves.
1 The mantle is made up of semi-molten rock called magma. 2  In the upper parts of the mantle the rock is hard, but lower down the rock is soft and beginning to melt. 3  The crust is the outer layer of the earth. 4  It is a thin layer between 0-60 km thick. The Earth is made up of four distinct layers: 1  The inner core is in the centre and is the hottest part of the Earth. 2  It is solid and made up of iron and nickel with temperatures of up to 5,500°C. 3  With its immense heat energy, the inner core is like the engine room
The Crust is the thinnest layer in the earth. The Mantle is very massive (huge) if you don't get huge imagine it takes up 80% of the earth now that is huge. The outer core is made of iron and nickel. The inner core is the most inner layer it is very solid. The outer core surrounds the inner core. The outer core is the only liquid layer of the Earth. You could say that the outer core is basically a sea of iron and nickel. The outer core is 2100 miles and also is in an range of 200-300 kilometres thick. 7,200 to 9,000 degrees Fahrenheit (4,000 to 5,000 degrees Celsius)
The mantle is the layer below the crust. It makes up almost two thirds of the earth's mass and is about 2900 km thick. The mantel is divided into two regions, the upper and lower sections. Directly below the upper section is the asthenosphere. The thin, outermost layer of the earth is called the crust. It makes up only one percent of the earth's mass. The continental crust is thicker than the oceanic crust. It can range from 25 km thick at the edges to 70 km thick near the center.
Layers of the Earth. The earth is made up of layers (crust, mantle, outer core, and inner core). Each one has a unique make-up to it. Crust. This is the outer layer of the Earth about 10 miles or so thick. Mostly made up of rock and loose material. Mantle. The next layer beneath the crust is called the mantle. It extends to a depth of approximately 1,800 miles and is made of a thick solid rocky substance that represents about 85% of the total weight and mass of the Earth. The first 50 miles of the mantle are believed to consist of very hard rigid rock