Cytoplasm. All cells in the human body have three distinctive parts. These are the nucleus, the cytoplasm, and the cell membrane. The cell membrane is the outer-boundary of a cell, and it contains various channels to let materials into and out of a cell. The nucleus is at the center of the cell, and it is home to all of a cell’s chromosomes, or genetic material. Organelles. The organelles within the cytoplasm do not contain any of a cells genetic material, because all of that is exclusive contained within the nucleus. The organelles inside cytoplasm are very important for the maintenance of the cell.
Each cell has a cell membrane, which surrounds the cell and protects the inner components. These internal components include a nucleus (a central structure that holds your genetic information), ribosomes (tiny structures that make proteins) and organelles (little organs that perform various functions). Cytoplasm is the fluid that fills cells and serves several important functions. Cytoplasm holds the internal components of cells in place and protects them from damage. Cytoplasm stores molecules used for cellular processes, as well as hosts many of these processes within the cell itself.
It is within the cytoplasm that most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways including glycolysis, and processes such as cell division. Within the cells of eukaryote organisms the contents of the cell nucleus are separated from the cytoplasm, and are then called the nucleoplasm. The cytoplasm is about 80% water and usually colorless.
Inclusions. Unlike organelles, inclusions within the cytoplasm do not have membranes or take part in metabolic activities. They are typically simple crystals and granules of materials such as glycogen and silica. Glycogen is a form of glucose and an important energy source in animal cells.
Animal cells and plant cells. Animal cells usually have an irregular shape, and plant cells usually have a regular shape. Cells are made up of different parts. It is easier to explain what these parts are by using diagrams like the ones below. Animal cells and plant cells both contain: cell membrane, cytoplasm, nucleus. Plant cells also contain these parts, not found in animal cells: chloroplasts, vacuole, cell wall. The table summarises the functions of these parts. 
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Cytoplasm contains the organelles of a cell, including the mitochondria, proteins, ribosomes, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, lysosomes and the cytoskeleton. Julia · 5 years ago. 
Organelles are specialized membrane-enclosed structures in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells. The nucleus, which contains DNA in the form of chromosomes, is the most characteristic eukaryotic organelle. The nuclear envelope is connected to a system of membranes in the; cytoplasm called the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). 
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. Within the cells of eukaryote organisms the contents of the cell nucleus are separated from the cytoplasm, and are then called the nucleoplasm. The cytoplasm is about 80% water and usually colorless.
Some of the most important organelles that cytoplasm contains are the ribosomes, mitochondria, proteins, the endoplasmic reticulum, lysosomes, and the the Golgi apparatus. The mitochondria are areas of ‘energy-making’, because they contain the materials necessary for ATP synthesis, or the fueling of the cell. Organelles. The organelles within the cytoplasm do not contain any of a cells genetic material, because all of that is exclusive contained within the nucleus. The organelles inside cytoplasm are very important for the maintenance of the cell.