This law allows the DMV to issue a driver’s license to deferred action recipients who can provide evidence of their authorized presence in the United States, even if they are ineligible for a Social Security number. This law provides driver's licenses to applicants who submit a valid foreign passport or consular identification and proof of residency, regardless of legal presence in the United States.
1 Enhanced Licenses are issued to U.S. citizens in Washington, Vermont, Michigan, Minnesota, and New York, and establish nationality in addition to driving privileges. 2  An EDL is a WHTI compliant document, acceptable for re-entering the United States via land and sea crossings from Canada, Mexico, or the Caribbean. In a rare exception to states and territories issuing driver's licenses, the State Department 's Office of Foreign Missions (OFM) issues driver's licenses to foreign officials and diplomats, bypassing the states and territories in which they live.
1 Motorcycle Licenses covers motorcycles only; frequently combined with a regular driver's license. 2  In some states this does not include some types of mopeds, scooters, or motorized bicycles, but with a wide variety of different state-by-state definitions for these vehicles. In a rare exception to states and territories issuing driver's licenses, the State Department 's Office of Foreign Missions (OFM) issues driver's licenses to foreign officials and diplomats, bypassing the states and territories in which they live.
A driver's license/licence or driving licence is an official document that states that a person may operate one or more types of motorized vehicles, such as a motorcycle, car, truck, or a bus, on a public roadway without in-vehicle supervision. The laws relating to the licensing of drivers vary between jurisdictions. Because a large number of countries, including Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States, have no national identification cards and because of the widespread use of cars, driver's licenses are often used as a de facto standard form of identification.
1 Unrestricted Licenses are driver's licenses that most American drivers have in order to drive. 2  Various states differ on what class they utilize to distinguish between a typical driver's license and special licenses, such as restricted, chauffeur, or motorcycle licenses. In a rare exception to states and territories issuing driver's licenses, the State Department 's Office of Foreign Missions (OFM) issues driver's licenses to foreign officials and diplomats, bypassing the states and territories in which they live.
If you do not have a social security number, you must obtain a letter from the Social Security Administration that states you are ineligible for a social security number. This letter must be submitted to DMV when applying for your driver's license, learner's permit or ID card. 
A driver's license is a very important document in the United States. It is typically the same size as a credit card. A driver's license allows you to operate a motor vehicle legally. Without a driver's license, it is illegal to operate a motor vehicle. Driver's licenses are issued by each state in the United States. The rules and regulations vary in various states. However, a driver's license issued from any state in the United States allows you to drive anywhere in the U.S. and Canada. As the public transport system is only good (or reasonable) in some major cities like New York, most people need to drive a car
If you already have a California license and you want to renew, you will need to: 1  Visit a DMV office (make an Appointment(s) for faster service). 2  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application form (DL 44 or DL 44C) or Commercial Driver License Application form (DL 44C). To apply for a Noncommercial Class B permit, you must: 1  Visit a DMV office (make an Appointment (s) for faster service). 2  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application form (DL 44 or DL 44C). 3  Driver License or Identification Card Application form (DL 44C). ( 4 An original DL 44C form must be submitted.
How to change your name on your driver license and/or identification (ID) card. To apply for a name change you will need to: 1  Visit a DMV office (make an Appointment(s) for faster service). 2  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application form DL 44 or DL 44C. 3  Give a thumb print. 4  Have your picture taken. 5  Pay the driver license or identification card application fee. To apply for a Noncommercial Class B permit, you must: 1  Visit a DMV office (make an Appointment (s) for faster service). 2  Complete a Driver License or Identification Card Application form (DL 44 or DL 44C). 3  Driver License or Identification Card Application form (DL 44C). ( 4 An original DL 44C form must be submitted.
Some states require you to have a social security number before you can get a driver's license. If you are not eligible to get a social security number (e.g., because you are on an H4 visa), you will need to get a letter from the SSA and apply for an ITIN (Individual Tax Identification Number). Without a driver's license, it is illegal to operate a motor vehicle. Driver's licenses are issued by each state in the United States. The rules and regulations vary in various states. However, a driver's license issued from any state in the United States allows you to drive anywhere in the U.S. and Canada.