The Turtle Symbol-Motherhood The turtle symbol also represents the earth mother. The earth mother features in many Native American myths and legends and is honored for saving mankind from the Great Flood. The turtle symbol of the earth mother represents her stoic ability to carries the heavy burden of man on her shell. Native American Symbols, like the Turtle symbol, can vary in meaning from one tribe to another and across the culture groups of North America. Discover facts and information about the meanings of secret and mysterious symbols used by Native American Indians in our List of Symbols including the Turtle symbol.
Meaning of the Turtle Symbol Native American Indians were a deeply spiritual people and they communicated their history, thoughts, ideas and dreams from generation to generation through Symbols and Signs such as the Turtle symbol. Native American Symbols, like the Turtle symbol, can vary in meaning from one tribe to another and across the culture groups of North America. Discover facts and information about the meanings of secret and mysterious symbols used by Native American Indians in our List of Symbols including
Symbolic Meaning of Turtle ... Sea Turtle is a very ancient soul living in the seas, land turtles make their home the deserts and the forests. Turtle spirit animal gracefully teaches us the art of adapting to new surroundings and environments. Turtle Symbolism & Meaning symbol of trusting your inner vision. Turtle Symbolism... by Presley Love The mystical messages and symbols of the ancient and legendary Turtle totem animal... gifts of finding inner wisdom, the magic of intuition, symbolic meaning of vast journeys and the gift of long life.
Turtles are frequently depicted in popular culture as easygoing, patient, and wise creatures. Due to their long lifespan, slow movement, sturdiness, and wrinkled appearance, they are an emblem of longevity and stability in many cultures around the world. Turtles are regularly incorporated into human culture, with painters, photographers, poets, songwriters, and sculptors using them as subjects. Sea turtles are used to promote tourism, as sea turtles can have a symbolic role in the imaginations of potential tourists. Tourists interact with turtles in countries such as Australia, Brazil, Costa Rica, Greece, and the United States. Turtle-based ecotourism activities take place on nesting beach
Best Answer: The honu, or Hawaiian sea turtle, is the Hawaiian symbol of longevity, peace, good luck, humility, long life and the spirit within. In Hawaii, legend tells about a green sea turtle, Kauila, who could change herself into a girl to watch over the children playing at Punalu'u Beach on the Big Island. 
Turtles symbolize begginngs and endings. The tops of their shells represent heaven and the bottom part earth. Turtle people feel their home is where they are for the moment. Represent shifting of life circumstances. Need to let go of something to move on. A turtle symbolizes the navigator (family especially when together with other turtles); this one is inspired by Maori and Samoan styles. On the inside we have incorporated a … manta (a symbol of freedom and beauty), and some motifs representing strength and protection.
The Turtle Symbol-Meaning The turtle is a sacred figure in Native American symbolism as it represents Mother Earth. The meaning of the Turtle symbol signifies good health and long life. The turtle has great longevity living up to 150 years. Native American Symbols, like the Turtle symbol, can vary in meaning from one tribe to another and across the culture groups of North America. Discover facts and information about the meanings of secret and mysterious symbols used by Native American Indians in our List of Symbols including the Turtle symbol.
The oldest fossils of turtles are dated at over 200 million years old. This is highly symbolic. It indicates the turtle is a symbol of longevity, endurance, persistence, and the continuation of life (sometimes against incredible odds). It is also a powerful totem for protection as withdrawing into it's shell is an amazing self-defense mechanism. The turtle has few predators, which gives it an innocent energy. This also increases its lifespan, and so holds the symbolic meaning for longevity in many cultures.
Symbolic Turtle Meanings. Those with the turtle as their animal totem can relate to the sure and steady message this creature brings to our lives. It is also a powerful totem for protection as withdrawing into it's shell is an amazing self-defense mechanism. The turtle has few predators, which gives it an innocent energy. This also increases its lifespan, and so holds the symbolic meaning for longevity in many cultures.