Carbohydrates are are composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, which are arranged into small units called sugars, or monosaccharides. Small carbohydrates, like glucose or sucrose (table sugar) are composed of one or two sugar units, respectively, and are the molecules that give food a sweet taste. Disaccharides contain two monosaccharides (di=two) bonded together, and include sugars such as lactose (milk sugar), sucrose (table sugar), maltose and isomaltose (sugars formed from the breakdown of starch).
Most sugars are disaccharides -- made of two molecules -- and starches and fibers are polysaccharides, made of multiple molecules attached together. Monosaccharides, or carbohydrates made of a single molecule, are not as common but can also be found in some foods. Glucose. Glucose is also found as a monosaccharide in various fruits and sweeteners. For example, a large part of the carbohydrates found in blueberries, strawberries, raspberries, papaya and cantaloupe is glucose. Dextrose, a sugar found at most health food stores as a white powder, is 100 percent glucose.
Overview. Simple sugars are known as monosaccharides, and are a carbohydrate found in may different foods, according to the Elements Database website. Simple sugars are digested quickly by the body because there are typically fewer nutrients for them to break down. Simple sugars include glucose, fructose and galactose. 
Monosaccharides [Greek monos = single; sacchar = sugar] or simple sugars consist of one sugar unit that cannot be further broken down into simpler sugars [1] . Examples of monosaccharides in foods are glucose, fructose and galactose. Picture 1. Monosaccharide examples: glucose, fructose and galactose. Monosaccharides are the simplest form of carbohydrates. They can join together and form complex carbohydrates, for example: 2 monosaccharides form disaccharides, 3-10 of them form oligosaccharides and 11 or more of them form polysaccharides. 
Monosaccharides. The 3 monosaccharides are: glucose, fructose and galactose. All are 6-carbon sugars (hexoses). However, fructose has a five member ring, while glucose and galactose have 6 member rings. 1  Glucose: product of photosynthesis, major source of energy in our bodies. 
Some monosaccharides have a sweet taste. Examples of monosaccharides include glucose (dextrose), fructose (levulose) and galactose. Monosaccharides are the building blocks of disaccharides (such as sucrose and lactose) and polysaccharides (such as cellulose and starch).
Monosaccharides are simple sugars. (Mono= 1 and saccharide = sugar) Monosaccarides are the building blocks for disaccarides which are complex sugars. Examples of monosaccharides are glucose, galactose, fructose. Glucose is blood sugar. Galactose It is found in dairy products. Fructose can be found in fruits and vegetables.
Monosaccharides. Monosaccharides are the basic building blocks of carbohydrates. The two most common simple sugars are glucose, which is both made in the body and found in foods, and fructose. Glucose and fructose combine to make sucrose, or common table sugar. A third common monosaccharide is galactose, which the body makes from sugars in dairy products.
Honey is a rich source of the monosaccharide fructose. A monosaccharide, also called simple sugar, is a carbohydrate that cannot be broken down into other carbohydrates. The most common monosaccharides provided by foods are glucose, fructose and galactose. Sweet foods such as honey and cane sugar are rich in monosaccharides, but a wide variety of other foods, such as dairy products, beans and fruit, also contain these simple sugars. The two most common simple sugars are glucose, which is both made in the body and found in foods, and fructose. Glucose and fructose combine to make sucrose, or common table sugar. A third common monosaccharide is galactose, which the body makes from sugars in dairy products.