At the beginning of the first grade, your first grader will be expected to recognize and to write the letters of the alphabet, in both their lower and uppercase forms. She should be able to write her first name as well as her last name. She should be able to read some sight words, and probably color words.
This list of common sight words covers not only words that first graders should recognize on sight by the end of the year, it also includes words that they should be able to read, write and spell.
Learn what your child should be able to do at the beginning and end of second grade reading. In second grade reading the focus changes from decoding (sounding out) words to learning the basic mechanics of reading. As your child grasps the mechanics of reading, comprehension skills come into greater focus.
By the end of the year, the typical first grader can read simple books such as Eat Your Peas, Louise! or Little Bear accurately, by identifying all the words correctly. Most first graders read word-by-word instead of in phrases, and they read fairly slowly, especially if they are reading a book for the first time.
First graders know many words by sight. At the end of first grade, children typically know at least 150 “sight words,” or common words, such as “the” and “no,” that they recognize with ease. They learn sight words through repeated exposure in reading and by using these words over and over again in their own writing.
What your first grader should know going into school. More Independence. First grade involves increased responsibilities and huge growth in terms of learning to read. Children who are well prepared for first grade enter school being able to follow two and three step directions.
By the end of first grade, your first grader will be expected to be reading. She will be expected to be able to tell her own stories. She should be able to use a ruler, a magnifying glass, and scales.
What first graders should learn at school. Reading. First grade is a BIG reading year and many children begin the year sounding out basic consonant-vowel-consonant three letter words such as “cat.” Spelling lists and weekly spelling tests are common in most first grade classrooms.
School Issues No comments. Many children enter the first grade either reading very little or not reading at all. However, reading is one of the most fundamental things that is taught in the first grade, and by the end of the first grade year, your first grader should be reading relatively well.