boucle. bouclé. n. (1) textiles a curled or looped yarn or fabric giving a thick knobbly. effect. adj. (2) textiles of or designating such a yarn or: fabric a boucle bouclé. wool coat 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Boucle yarn is a specialized type of yarn that is usually made of three plies. Among the three plies used to create this yarn, one thread is usually looser than the others. The looser thread causes the yarn to have a rough feeling and a bulky look. This also makes it more likely to unravel than some other types of yarn. Since boucle yarn is crated by combining several plies of thread together, it is generally a colorful yarn. Often, two or more colors are mixed together in a unique pattern. In this way, it only takes one spool of yarn to create a multi-colored project when using this yarn.
Boucle Fabric: Definition. A boucle fabric is a heavy weight fabric made with boucle yarn. Boucle yarn has a length of loops of similar size which can range from tiny circlets to large curls. This fabric has the characteristic curly yarn finish similar to poodle cloth. 
Main Image: Boucle yarn is one of the different types of yarn which is made up of three plies. Among these three plies one of the plies is usually looser than other which gives rough and bulky look. Boucle yarn is made up of different fibers twisted together with irregular loops which produce soft and bulky yarn. Generally two thicker fibers such as cotton or wool are twisted around a thin nylon thread. Boucle yarn is used in knitting sweaters, jackets, and scarves and in summer tops. If boucle yarn is knit with many purl stitches it will produce tight fleece which is similar to a poodle coat, hence boucle yarn is also known as poodle yarn. Boucle yarn is produced from natural and manmade fibers like cotton, wool etc. There are three ways the Boucle Yarn is spun :
The yarn is made from a length of loops of similar size which can range from tiny circlets to large curls. To make boucle, bouclé at least two strands are, combined with the tension on one strand being much looser than the other as it is being, plied with the loose strand forming the loops and the other strand as the. anchor
1 Boucle yarn is a delicate type yarn which is woven using several plies of thread and extra care needs to be taken. 2  Boucle yarn is made from different colored fibers that are woven together. If boucle yarn is knit with many purl stitches it will produce tight fleece which is similar to a poodle coat, hence boucle yarn is also known as poodle yarn. Boucle yarn is produced from natural and manmade fibers like cotton, wool etc. There are three ways the Boucle Yarn is spun :
In machine spinning boucle bouclé can be created in a single, step using a hollow. Spindle it is made by differing the feed rate of the effect yarn with respect to the core. Yarns the core yarns are wrapped around the effect yarn either loosely or, tightly depending on the difference in feed rates and amount of twist. used To make boucle, bouclé at least two strands are, combined with the tension on one strand being much looser than the other as it is being, plied with the loose strand forming the loops and the other strand as the. anchor
Boucle bouclé is both a yarn and a fabric made from. It the yarn is made from a length of loops of similar size which can range from tiny circlets to large. curls To make boucle, bouclé at least two strands are, combined with the tension on one strand being much looser than the other as it is being, plied with the loose strand forming the loops and the other strand as the. anchor
Boucle yarn is one of the different types of yarn which is made up of three plies. Among these three plies one of the plies is usually looser than other which gives rough and bulky look. If boucle yarn is knit with many purl stitches it will produce tight fleece which is similar to a poodle coat, hence boucle yarn is also known as poodle yarn. Boucle yarn is produced from natural and manmade fibers like cotton, wool etc. There are three ways the Boucle Yarn is spun :