This cause and effect worksheet encourages kids to work on reading comprehension, a key skill that takes lots and lots of practice to master. Help your third grader improve his critical thinking and close reading skills with this exercise that focuses on story cause and effect. In this cause and effect worksheet, students will read through a short story, then answer questions based on the characters' actions. Check out the entire Reading for Comprehension series for more practice.
Cause and Effect Worksheets. The world is full of causes and effects, so it should be no surprise that literature and non-fiction writings often contain cause/effect references. In order to thoroughly understand what they are reading, students should be able to analyze the causes and effects as presented by the author. An excerpt from Alice in Wonderland is a great tool to help students understand cause and effect. Not only will they enjoy reading, but when you print out this activity they will also identify the
Discover some simple hands-on activities and games that can be done at home or in the backyard to help your child develop a deeper understanding of cause and effect — and strengthen reading comprehension and scientific inquiry skills. Science seeks to explain and understand the natural world. Things happen for a reason: there is a cause for every effect. In science, the cause explains why something happens. The effect is the description of what happened.
TIP SheetWRITING CAUSE AND EFFECT PAPERS. Cause and effect papers use analysis to examine the reasons for and the outcomes of situations. They are an attempt to discover either the origins of something, such as an event or a decision, the effects or results that can be properly attributed to it, or both. 
In the above example, the paragraph explains how germs cause illnesses. The germs are the cause in the paragraph and the illness is the effect. Here is another example of a paragraph that is written using the cause and effect text structure: Reasons why you can't chew gum in class. Another Example: Students are not allowed to chew gum in my class. These paragraphs can be ordered as causes and effects or as effects and then causes. The cause and effect text structure is generally used in expository and persuasive writing modes.
In other words, the cause is the reason, the effect is the result or what happens. Use the two previous examples for further explanation. After students have a good understanding of cause and effect, have them think of some examples that happen to them in their daily lives and use the terms cause and effect. Therefore, a student may say: The cause was I did not wash the dishes when it was my night to do them.
Share the children's book If You Give a Mouse a Cookie with your child. Point out the use of specific cause/effect words used in the book, including if … then. Keep a running tally of all the causes and effects that happen in the story. For example, if you give a mouse a cookie, he'll want a glass of milk to go with it. If you give him a glass of milk, he will ask for a straw, etc. Science seeks to explain and understand the natural world. Things happen for a reason: there is a cause for every effect. In science, the cause explains why something happens. The effect is the description of what happened.
Be sure that students understand that a cause is an action or event the makes something else (the effect) happen. If necessary, review simple cause and effect relationships such as, If I knock that glass over (cause), the water will spill (effect).. 
Cause and effect is a common way to organize information in a text. Paragraphs structured as cause and effect explain reasons why something happened or the effects of something. These paragraphs can be ordered as causes and effects or as effects and then causes. The cause and effect text structure is generally used in expository and persuasive writing modes.
An important part of learning is knowing the difference between cause and effect. You also need to know how they relate to each other. Print out this free worksheet for students to practice recognizing the cause and effect in each example. An excerpt from Alice in Wonderland is a great tool to help students understand cause and effect. Not only will they enjoy reading, but when you print out this activity they will also identify the