Although, birth control pills are often prescribed to regulate a women's period, they can also cause you to miss your period. If you are using a hormonal method of birth control containing progesterone (such as Depo-Provera, Norplant, or mini-pills), you may miss or fail to have a period. It is not abnormal to miss your period while on birth control. In fact, you may not experience any bleeding during the placebo week (the week that you take inactive pills) until you have stopped taking birth control completely. Below are some reasons (other than pregnancy) that you may miss your period. However, it is always best to speak to a health care provider if you experience any sudden changes in your body. 1  Excessive Exercise. 2  Birth Control.
Photo Credit. Thinkstock. The only thing worse than getting your period is not getting your period. The anxiety, the trip to the drugstore for a pregnancy test, and the confusion that sets in when the test comes back negative is worse than any case of cramps. And while a lot of women don’t talk about it, almost all of us have been there. 
The menstrual cycle is the time from the first day of one period to the first day of the next. A normal menstrual cycle can be as short as 21 days or longer than 35 days. For most women, it lasts 25 - 30 days. But it's common for your cycle to vary from month to month. There's no way to know exactly when you'll get your first period. One day, you'll begin to bleed from your vagina, and that's your period. It means that your body is healthy and normal. Most girls have their first period when they're between 9 and 15 years old. Your period may start around the time it started for other people in your family, like your mom or sisters
It is not unusual for women who are taking hormone pills for birth control to have very light periods or no bleeding at all. If you have not missed any pills, skip 1 period, yet have no other signs of early pregnancy, it is very unlikely that you are pregnant. Signs of early pregnancy include fatigue, breast tenderness or enlargement, nausea or vomiting, and increased urination. Call your doctor if you are worried. Call your doctor for advice about the test results. If you have not missed any pills, it is unlikely that you are pregnant. Do not stop taking your pills and risk a pregnancy unless instructed to do so by your doctor. If you forget 1 or more pills and you miss a period, take a home pregnancy test as soon as possible.
You may be different: You may have more or fewer. Missed or irregular periods must be looked at in terms of what is normal for you. Menstrual periods are often irregular during the first few years after menstruation starts. It may take several years for the hormones that control menstruation to reach a balance. Pregnancy is the most common cause of a missed period. If you might be pregnant, treat yourself as if you are pregnant until you know for sure. Use a home pregnancy test as the first step to finding out whether you are pregnant. If you are not pregnant, other causes of missed or irregular periods include: 1  Excessive weight loss or gain. 2  Although low body weight is a common cause of missed or irregular periods, obesity also can cause menstrual problems. 3  Eating disorders, such as anorexia or bulimia
Best Answer: First, you should write down the date of each period (if & when you get another) ... do this each month, then count the days between each period. Most women start their cycle every 21 to 28 days. So, yes, you can have 2 periods in one month. As far as not having your period this month, yes, it is rare but you can be late or skip one if you're under stress ..etc However, more than likely, you're pregnant. A menstral cycle is on average 28 days, but it varies from woman to woman. You shouldn't be worried. Periods sometimes come later because you're under more stress than usual, or just some lack of sleep, etc. But, if you skip more than 2 months it's better to see a doctor about it.
Even though it's normal to skip a period every once in a while, if you've had unprotected sex (sex without a condom or birth control) and missed your period, take a pregnancy test. If your period is so heavy that you have to change maxi pads or super tampons every hour, see a doctor. There's no way to know exactly when you'll get your first period. One day, you'll begin to bleed from your vagina, and that's your period. It means that your body is healthy and normal. Most girls have their first period when they're between 9 and 15 years old. Your period may start around the time it started for other people in your family, like your mom or sisters