Types of epithelium: Epithelia are classified according to the number of layers of cells they contain and the shape of the cells. If the cells are arranged in a single layer, the epithelium is called simple; if the cells are arranged in two or more layers, the epithelium is called stratified. Thus, an epithelium with a single layer of flattened cells is called a simple squamous epithelium. If the shape of the cells is not identical in the various layers of a stratified epithelium, it is the outermost layer (ie at the free surface) that determines the classification.
Pseudostratified columnar epithelium is a type of tissue that has a single layer of cells arranged in a fashion that appears to be stratified, whereas transitional epithelial tissue is an elastic-like epithelial tissue that swells, contracts, and changes shape as necessary. Regardless of the shape, size, or arrangement of the cells, they are still a type of, or part of, epithelial tissue, just like all our differently sized, shaped, and arranged plastic bricks are still Legos.
Epithelium (epi- + thele + -ium) is one of the four basic types of animal tissue. The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells
However, the four . Types of animal tissues can be sub-divided further as each includes several different sub-types of the tissue, each being specialised to meet specific needs and/or perform particular tasks. Epithelial tissue exists in many forms and can be classified or sub-divided in different ways. Types of Epithelial Tissue: Each of the sub-divisions of epithelial tissue identified above can be described in terms of its structure (using both text and diagrams), location, and function within the body. 
By Antranik 12 Comments. First name of tissue indicates number of cell layers. 1  Simple—one layer of cells. 2  Stratified—more than one layer of cells. Found in the trachea (just remember cilia pushes mucus up, in the trachea). Nonkeratinized forms in all places mucous membranes are found. Saliva, sweat and mammary glands all have these cuboidal stratified tissue. Very rare, found in male urethra and large ducts of some glands.
The cells in epithelia have different shapes, and different types of epithelia have different numbers of layers of cells (from one to many). The shape of the cells, and their organisation are important to the particular function of each type of epithelia. 
This lesson will cover the different shapes and structures of epithelial tissue, including simple, columnar, cuboidal, stratified, transitional, squamous, and pseudostratified columnar epithelium. Regardless of the shape, size, or arrangement of the cells, they are still a type of, or part of, epithelial tissue, just like all our differently sized, shaped, and arranged plastic bricks are still Legos.
Grouped in to four basic types: connective, muscle, nervous, and epithelial. Multiple tissue types compose organs and body structures. While all animals can generally be considered to contain the four tissue types, the manifestation of these tissues can differ depending on the type of organism. Functions of epithelial tissue: 1  the cells of the body surface form the outer layer of skin. 2  inside the body, epithelial cells form the lining of the mouth & alimentary canal & protect these organs. 3  epithelial tissues help in absorption of water & nutrients.
Learning Objectives. 1  Describe how different types of epithelia (simple, stratified, squamous, columnar) facilitate the performance of different functions. 2  List the junctional complexes that hold epithelial cells together and their primary functions. 3  List the functions of the basement membrane and how epithelial cells attach to the basement 4  ... Diag Given the wide distribution, epithelial cells perform a variety of functions: protection (skin), absorption (intestine), secretion (glands), excretion (kidney), gas exchange (lung and blood vessels). To perform these functions, epithelia assemble into different structures.