Yes they run about half a size to a full size smaller if your feet are regular width. I wear a 5.0 USA womens, but I can wear the 5.5 USA womens in PUMA. If you measure the sh … oes in cm the size is the same (22cm), so check the tag for your measure in cm. The shoes tend to run narrow, so maybe this is why you can wear a size up. Be sure to check the style of shoe and if you have a narrow shoe try on before buying. 6 people found this useful. It means that an 8 is a small 8, a 9 is a small 9. For example, if you wear an 8 in some brands and an 8.5 in others, if the shoes run small you might want to go for the 8.5.
Report Abuse. They run about a size big in my experience. I wear a men's size 11 in most shoes, but a size 11 in Asics was too big. I could fit into a 10 perfectly fine. Your size depends on the type of shoe. There should be a thumb's width between your longest toe and the tip of your shoe, so that you have room for your toes. I'm buying shoes online for the first time, and they're spikes, and I've neveer worn Asics before. I'm a little worried about what size I should get. do their sizes run small?
The Asics Gel Nimbus is a running shoe that will definitely offer exceptional cushioning through the different features that is included in it. Because of its cushioning, there is better shock absorption during impact, which provides protection to your foot while running. The men’s version of the Asics Gel Nimbus weighs 337 grams, while the women’s version weighs 275 grams. The weight of this running shoe implies that it is not a shoe used for speed running. Compared to other running shoes, this shoe is a bit heavier.
777. Syfo-Dias, Oct 20, 2007. I ended up going with the 10.5 because TW said they run true to size and I went and tried on some Asics running shoes in a 10.5 and they felt fine. Of course nobody actually had any Asics tennis shoes to try on so it was a gamble. It was a tough call because some people said they ran small and others said they didn't. I'd worn size 12 Adidas tennis and running shoes from the time I was 14 until a couple of years ago (the no-hassle replacement on the old Adidas Response in the 90's made me a loyal customer). As an adult I developed pretty bad leg pain that went away when I switched to size 12 Asics for tennis and running
The Asics Gel Nimbus neutral running shoe can accommodate runners with medium-sized feet. There are other running shoes that are smaller and only small-sized feet can fit. This just means that there is a wider range of sizes that this shoe can accommodate. The men’s version of the Asics Gel Nimbus weighs 337 grams, while the women’s version weighs 275 grams. The weight of this running shoe implies that it is not a shoe used for speed running. Compared to other running shoes, this shoe is a bit heavier.