Transcript of Cellular Respiration. Cellular respiration is the process that converts the energy stored in the bonds of glucose to produce ATP, and then releasing waste products. All of these metabolic reactions and processes take place inside the cells of organisms. This is important to cellular respiration because the oxygen taken in by the respiratory system has to be transported to the cells of the body by the circulatory system. Aerobic Respiration Aerobic respiration uses oxygen and glucose to produce carbon dioxide, water, and ATP.
Cellular Respiration. Cellular respiration is a process through which the body releases energy stored in glucose, which is a compound composed of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. That energy is used to produce adenosine triphosphate, or ADP, which scientists call the energy currency of the cell. During respiration, the body oxidizes glucose and energy is released. The oxygen in the compound is reduced to water, while the carbon atoms in the glucose are released as carbon dioxide.
The human respiration process. The physiology of respiration. In human physiology, respiration is the transport of oxygen from the clean air to the tissue cells and the transport of carbon dioxide in the opposite direction. This is only part of the processes of delivering oxygen to where it is needed in the human body and removing carbon dioxide waste. 
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 
Glucose is often the organic compound used in cellular respiration. The chemical reactions that take place in the cytoplasm break down the glucose into a simpler organic compound called pyruvate, in these reactions a very small amount of ATP is produced using energy released from glucose. ...read more. Every cell produces its own ATP by a process of cell respiration. Cell respiration is defined as controlled release of energy in the form of ATP, from organic compounds in cells (1). Cell respiration can be either aerobic (using oxygen) or anaerobic (without the use of oxygen)