The superior mesenteric artery is a large artery in the abdominal cavity that provides blood to the small intestine, cecum, and colon. The small intestine is the portion of the digestive system most responsible for absorption of nutrients from food into the bloodstream. Superior mesenteric artery syndrome (SMAS) is a digestive condition that occurs when the duodenum (the first part of the small intestine) is compressed between two arteries (the aorta and the superior mesenteric artery). This compression causes partial or complete blockage of the duodenum.
Superior mesenteric vein. The superior mesenteric vein, also known as (SMV) transports blood from the small intestine and the cecum. It follows a path similar to that of the superior mesenteric artery. This vein is located in the abdominal cavity next to the superior mesenteric artery. Where it ends, near the neck of the pancreas, it forms the hepatic portal vein by coming together with the splenic vein. Other tributaries of SMV drain other organs such as the stomach, large intestine, and appendix. Another rare condition that can be associated with the superior mesenteric vein is mesenteric ischemia. This is when the small intestine is inflamed or possibly injured due to inadequate blood supply, and this can be fatal.
superior mesenteric vein, a tributary of the portal vein that drains the blood from the small intestine, the cecum, and the ascending and transverse colons. See also portal vein. Tributaries of the superior mesenteric vein include the jejunal, ileal, ileocolic, right and middle colic, right gastroepiploic, and pancreaticoduodenal veins.
superior mesenteric vein. The vein that accompanies the superior mesenteric artery and drains the small intestine, cecum, ascending colon, and transverse colon. Tributaries of the superior mesenteric vein include the jejunal, ileal, ileocolic, right and middle colic, right gastroepiploic, and pancreaticoduodenal veins.
(January 2009). In human anatomy, the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) arises from the anterior surface of the abdominal aorta, just inferior to the origin of the celiac trunk, and supplies the intestine from the lower part of the duodenum through two-thirds of the transverse colon, as well as the pancreas. Contents. 
In anatomy, the superior mesenteric vein (SMV) is a blood vessel that drains blood from the small intestine (jejunum and ileum). At its termination behind the neck of the pancreas, the SMV combines with the splenic vein to form the hepatic portal vein. The SMV lies to the anatomical left of the similarly named artery, the superior mesenteric artery, which originates from the abdominal aorta.
Superior mesenteric artery (SMA) syndrome is a rare, potentially life-threatening gastro-vascular disorder characterized by a compression of the third and final portion of the duodenum by the abdominal aorta (AA) and the overlying superior mesenteric artery. 
Background. Superior mesenteric artery (SMA) syndrome is an uncommon but well recognized clinical entity characterized by compression of the third, or transverse, portion of the duodenum between the aorta and the superior mesenteric artery. This results in chronic, intermittent, or acute complete or partial duodenal obstruction. 