The Sarcopterygii, or lobe-finned fishes, is a clade containing the coelacanths, lungfishes, tetrapods, and their fossil relatives, including the osteolepiformes and panderichthyids. They are the sister group to the ray-finned fishes (Actinopterygii), together forming the bony fishes (Osteichthyes). These lobe-fins gave rise to the paired limbs of tetrapods, with the single bones representing the humerus (forelimb) and femur (hindlimb). The once-diverse coelacanths (Actinistia) are now represented by just two species in a single genus-Latimeria chalumnae and L. menadoensis.
The fins of lobe-finned fishes differ from those of all other fish in that each is borne on a fleshy, lobelike, scaly stalk extending from the body. The scales of sarcopterygians are true scaloids, consisting of lamellar bone surrounded by layers of vascular bone, dentine-like cosmine, and external keratin. All sarcopterygians possess teeth covered with true enamel. Most species of lobe-finned fishes are extinct. The largest known lobe-finned fish was Rhizodus hibberti from the Carboniferous period of Scotland which may have exceeded 7 meters in length.
lobe-finned fish. Any of various bony fish with fins that are rounded and fleshy, suggesting limbs. The lobe-finned fish are thought by some to be ancestors of amphibians and other land-dwelling vertebrate animals. They first appeared in the Ordovician Period and are extinct except for the coelacanth and lung
Coelacanths belong to the subclass Actinistia, a group of lobed-finned fish related to lungfish and certain extinct Devonian fish such as osteolepiforms, porolepiforms, rhizodonts, and Panderichthys. The word coelacanth is derived from the Greek for “hollow spine”, because of the fish's unique hollow spine fins. Coelacanths are large, plump, lobe-finned fish that grow up to 1.8 meters.
Early lobe-finned fishes are bony fish with fleshy, lobed, paired fins, which are joined to the body by a single bone. All sarcopterygians possess teeth covered with true enamel. Most species of lobe-finned fishes are extinct. The largest known lobe-finned fish was Rhizodus hibberti from the Carboniferous period of Scotland which may have exceeded 7 meters in length.
The most important features of lobe-finned fish is the lobe in their fins. Unlike other fish, Lobe-finned fish have a central appendage in their fins containing many bones and muscles. The fins are very flexible and potentially useful for supporting the body on land, as in lungfish and tetrapods (vertebrates with four limbs). Tetrapods are thoughto to have evolved from primitive lobe-finned fish.
Holoptychius-late Devonian period. The Sarcopterygii. are generally robust osteichthyan fishes with fleshy lobe-fins. They are distinguished from the Actinopterygians or ray-finned fish by their muscular fins with articulating bones. The fins are called lobe fins because they are fleshy and like the limbs of land animals, rather than the fins of familiar ray-finned fish. The lobe fins swivel on a shoulder or hip socket (like a tetrapod limb) and most of the bones can be matched directly to the bones in the limbs of land animals. 
from fins to legs. The Sarcopterygii are the lobe-finned fish and the tetrapods. The name Sarcopterygii (or sometimes Crossopterygii) used to refer only to the fish members of the group, but since it has become clear that the Tetrapoda evolved from sarcopterygian fish, the definition of the group has been expanded.
Ray-finned fishes (Actinopterygii) are a diverse group of bony fishes. Ray-finned fishes are so named for their fins which are supported by rays of bony spines (in contrast to the lobed-finned fishes which are also bony fish but they differ from ray-finned fish in that they have fleshy fins). Ray-finned fishes form the largest group of vertebrates and include some 25,000 speci