You may want to place an electric fan in your baby’s bedroom. If you do, keep the fan well away from your baby’s cot and check regularly that his room is not too cold. If you think your baby is getting too hot, check his tummy. If it feels hot, or if he's sweaty, remove some layers.
You know how you sleep better when the room's a little cooler? Well, your bundle of joy is no different. Keep your baby's room warmer during the day and cooler at night, Dr. Greene suggests. The optimal temperature for infant sleep is between 65 and 70?F.
Ideal Nighttime Temperature. The ideal temperature for a baby's room at night is between 65-70⁰F. Like adults, they tend to sleep more soundly when the temperature is slightly cooler than normal. Infants fall into asleep much easier without blankets, so don't counteract the cool temperature with heavy blankets.
I have read that the acceptable temperature range for a newborn nursery is between 16 and 20 degrees Celcius. We have an Angel Care monitor in our baby's nursery used to track the temperature. We try to keep his room at about 19 degrees celcius althougfh some nights it reads 21 degrees celcius.
Best Answer: The room temperature should be around 16-20ºC. Buy a room thermometer to keep an eye on the temperature, also check if your baby is sweating or feels hot to the touch to see if you need to adjust clothing or bedding. congrats. Source(s): http://www.babycentre.co.uk/baby/sleep/r...
Room Temperature. The temperature of a baby’s nursery should be kept anywhere between 61 and 68 degrees Fahrenheit. According to the Mayo Clinic, keeping the room warmer than normal isn’t necessary; any room a baby spends time in should be kept at a temperature that’s comfortable for the average adult.
You can help your baby to sleep safe and sound by keeping the temperature in his room between 16 degrees C and 20 degrees C. A basic room thermometer will help you to keep an eye on the temperature. If your baby gets too hot, he may be more at risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), also known as cot death.
Some new parents wonder what room temperature for baby is safe and comfortable. Experts recommend maintaining a room temperature between 65 to 74⁰F, which can be monitored more easily with a room thermometer. Maintaining a comfortbale temperature for your baby's room can help your little one's sound sleep.