A clinical geneticist is a physician who diagnoses and treats diseases caused by defects in genes. Clinical geneticists also participate in research toward improving the treatment or prevention of genetic diseases. Advanced Training. A medical geneticist who has achieved certification can go on to complete ABMG-approved training in specific subspecialties of genetics, including clinical molecular genetics and medical biochemical genetics.
Normally, geneticists are divided into two categories: laboratory geneticist and genetic counselor. The educational requirements for geneticists depend on the career path chosen, with some positions requiring a medical degree. Certain personal attributes also are important. 
Clinical Geneticist Qualification and Training. Residency programs are a terminal education opportunity in the field of clinical genetics, as they provide adequate opportunities to student to do research and also expose students to latest theories related to genetics. 1 A residency program in medical genetics, pediatrics, internal medicine or any other specialty followed by a fellowship in clinical genetics. 2  After the fellowship program of about two to three years, candidates will be eligible to take up the board certification exam.
Clinical Geneticist Education Requirements. Clinical geneticists are physicians who are specialized in the diagnosis and treatment of genetic diseases. They are medical doctors who are highly trained in research and laboratory practices. 1 A residency program in medical genetics, pediatrics, internal medicine or any other specialty followed by a fellowship in clinical genetics. 2  After the fellowship program of about two to three years, candidates will be eligible to take up the board certification exam.
Clinical geneticists work in a combination of clinical practice and research involving genetics, health and disease, screen for inherited conditions and diseases, prescribe therapy and also interact with genetic counselors to co-ordinate testing and discuss treatment information. 1 A residency program in medical genetics, pediatrics, internal medicine or any other specialty followed by a fellowship in clinical genetics. 2  After the fellowship program of about two to three years, candidates will be eligible to take up the board certification exam.
Once a physician has completed a genetics residency program, he is eligible to take the ABMG board certification examination. This exam consists of multiple-choice questions that test knowledge of genetic mutations and the diseases that they cause. Advanced Training. A medical geneticist who has achieved certification can go on to complete ABMG-approved training in specific subspecialties of genetics, including clinical molecular genetics and medical biochemical genetics.
Geneticist: Career Information and Education Requirements. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a geneticist. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about training, job duties and to find out if this is the career for you. Genetic Counselor. Genetic counselors provide information and support for a variety of health issues of genetic origin. They can coordinate treatment for those with birth disorders, as well as counsel patients who might have inherited conditions or are concerned about passing a condition to a child.
Clinical Geneticist Education & Training. Clinical geneticists treat patients with genetic illnesses. Clinical geneticists are physicians with specialized training in genetics. Although some work in research, the majority work with patients, diagnosing, managing, and treating genetic diseases and hereditary disorders. 
Clinical Geneticist Requirements. Aspiring clinical geneticists must complete a bachelor's degree program, as well as earn a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine at a medical school. After earning a doctoral degree, geneticists participate in a medical residency in genetics to gain specialized training. Genetic Counselor. Genetic counselors provide information and support for a variety of health issues of genetic origin. They can coordinate treatment for those with birth disorders, as well as counsel patients who might have inherited conditions or are concerned about passing a condition to a child.
Program Requirements. An applicant must successfully complete requirements of both the UW-Madison Graduate School and the Genetic Counselor Training Program (MS-Medical Genetics) to be considered a qualified applicant. 