Pay the Replacement License Plate Fees. The good news is that license plate replacement fees usually don’t cost any more than what you paid during the initial register car process. Sometimes, the fee is even lower. The better news is that, depending on where you live, you might get a replacement license plate for free. Simply put, you can’t legally drive a vehicle without tags. You must replace lost or damaged license plates as soon as possible. Of course, replacing them is a process like any other DMV transaction, riddled with state and situation variations.
APPLYING FOR A REPLACEMENT REGISTRATION CARD. You can apply for a replacement registration card if your card is lost, stolen, or damaged by following these steps: 1  Go to the nearest DDVS office with your driver's license or license plate number. 2  If your current registration card has been damaged, attach the damaged card to the application. 
The tab is placed in the lower-right corner of motorcycle plates. If your tab is lost, stolen, or mutilated and you still have the valid license plate, you can get a new tab at a Secretary of State branch office. Bring your registration or plate number. Replacement tabs cost $5. There is no fee to replace a tab returned as defective. 
1 The fee for replacing passenger vehicle license plates with the same kinds of plates at renewal (this can be done up to 120 days before the date the registration expires) is $29 ($24 plate fee plus a $5 replacement fee) plus the regular renewal fee. 2  The fee for replacing year tags/stickers only is $10. To get information about replacement fees for license plates and tags/stickers for other types of vehicles (i.e., not passenger vehicles) please call (503) 945-5000, or in Portland call (503) 299-9999.
Passenger Vehicles. 1  The fee for replacing passenger vehicle license plates and tags/stickers with the same kind of plates before the normal renewal period (120 days or more prior to the date of the registration’s expiration) is $34 ($24 plate fee and $10 replacement fee). To get information about replacement fees for license plates and tags/stickers for other types of vehicles (i.e., not passenger vehicles) please call (503) 945-5000, or in Portland call (503) 299-9999.
The standard charge for lost license plates is $10 plus an $8 handling fee. However, if you renewed your registration by mail and did not receive your registration stickers or new plates, you may request replacements within 60 days to receive a replacement free of charge. If any of your registration documents or license plates are lost, stolen, or damaged, you should request a replacement to avoid possible fines, tickets, and vehicle impoundment.
Some states, like California, require you to report lost license plates to law enforcement. Generally, you’ll have to submit a copy of the police report with the application for the replacement license plate. However, you should notify the police even if your state doesn’t require it. Simply put, you can’t legally drive a vehicle without tags. You must replace lost or damaged license plates as soon as possible. Of course, replacing them is a process like any other DMV transaction, riddled with state and situation variations.
1 The fee for replacing passenger vehicle license plates and tags/stickers with the same kind of plates before the normal renewal period (120 days or more prior to the date of the registration’s expiration) is $34 ($24 plate fee and $10 replacement fee). To get information about replacement fees for license plates and tags/stickers for other types of vehicles (i.e., not passenger vehicles) please call (503) 945-5000, or in Portland call (503) 299-9999.