DEFINITION of 'Bollinger Band®'. A band plotted two standard deviations away from a simple moving average, developed by famous technical trader John Bollinger. In this example of Bollinger Bands® , the price of the stock is banded by an upper and lower band along with a 21-day simple moving average. Next Up.
band 1. n. 1. A thin strip of flexible material used to encircle and bind one object or to hold a number of objects together: a metal band around the bale of cotton. 2. A strip or stripe that contrasts with something else in color, texture, or material. 3
band-Computer Definition. A continuous group, or range, with an upper limit and a lower limit. In analog terms, the width of a band or channel is defined as the upper and lower frequencies in a range of frequencies.The ITU-T defines standard optical transmission windows in bands of wavelengths. A band is defined as a group of people working together, particularly in the field of music or a band is something that ties together or restricts movement. 1  The Beatles and the Beach Boys are each an example of a band. 2  An elastic wrapped around hair to form a ponytail is
In telecommunication, a band-sometimes called a frequency band-is a specific range of frequencies in the radio frequency (RF) spectrum, which is divided among ranges from very low frequencies (vlf) to extremely high frequencies (ehf). Each band has a defined upper and lower frequency limit. Because two radio transmitters sharing the same frequency band cause mutual interference, band usage is regulated. International use of the radio spectrum is regulated by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU).
Medical Definition of A BAND. : one of the cross striations in striated muscle that contain myosin filaments and appear dark under the light microscope and light in polarized light. What made you want to look up A band?
A music band performs. A music band performs. A band is defined as a group of people working together, particularly in the field of music or a band is something that ties together or restricts movement. 1  The Beatles and the Beach Boys are each an example of a band. 2  An elastic wrapped around hair to form a ponytail is an example of a band.
Definition of BAND. 1. : something that confines or constricts while allowing a degree of movement. 2. : something that binds or restrains legally, morally, or spiritually. 3. : a strip serving to join or hold things together: as a: belt 2 b: a cord or strip across the back of a book to which the sections are sewn. 4
Learner's definition of BAND. [count]. 1. : a usually small group of musicians who play popular music together. — compare orchestra; see also big band, brass band, garage band, marching band, one-man band. The band's drummer is also the lead singer. a rock-and-roll band. 
A band. noun. Tweet. : one of the cross striations in striated muscle that contain myosin filaments and appear dark under the light microscope and light in polarized light. What made you want to look up A band?
M band the narrow dark band in the center of the H band. matrix band a cylindrical metal band with a special clamp or holder (the matrix retainer); it is filled with softened impression compound and seated over a tooth so that the compound flows into the prepared cavity and an impression of the tooth can be obtained. 