Whilst the civil rights movement began to gain momentum in 1955 it was many, many more years before changes took place that led to less discrimination against African Americans and laws were passed to remove the segregation that was common in some areas of America. The pivotal event that pushed the civil rights movement into full swing occurred on December 1st 1955 when an African American woman named Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat on a bus to a white man.
The early 1960s was the heyday of the early Civil Rights Movement. The efforts of civil rights activists began paying off as Presidents Kennedy and Johnson finally addressed the issue. The Civil Rights Movement in the Late 1960s. The victories of the Civil Rights Movement raised the hopes of African Americans living all over the country. But segregation in the South was, in a way, easier to combat--Southern segregation was enforced by the law, and laws could be changed.
On March 26, 1964, as the Civil Rights Act was facing stiff opposition in Congress, Malcolm had a public meeting with Martin Luther King, Jr. at the Capitol building. Malcolm had attempted to begin a dialog with Dr. King as early as 1957, but King had rebuffed him. 
On December 1, 1955, the modern civil rights movement began when Rosa Parks, an African-American woman, was arrested for refusing to move to the back of the bus in Montgomery, Alabama. THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT. The Civil Rights Movement that began in the late 1950's won for African-Americans basic rights long denied to them, inspired other discriminated groups to fight for their own rights, and had a deep effect on American society.
The Civil Rights Movement in the 1950s. The modern Civil Rights Movement got its start in the 1950s as returning African-American veterans from World War II began demanding equal rights. The decade of the fifties also saw the rise of Martin Luther King, Jr., and the nonviolent protest movement. The Civil Rights Movement in the Late 1960s. The victories of the Civil Rights Movement raised the hopes of African Americans living all over the country. But segregation in the South was, in a way, easier to combat--Southern segregation was enforced by the law, and laws could be changed.
Great leaders of the civil rights movement such as Martin Luther  King Jr. contributed to the success of the movement. The civil  rights movement was also very organized. Strategies such as  sit-ins, bus boycotts, freedom rides, and marches were organized,  so many civil rights believers participated. Civil rights believers  were very passive, too, which was an effective strategy. This was the beginning of national attention and national participation in the civil rights movement. This decision did not abolish segregation in other public areas, such as restaurants and restrooms; and the road to desegregating the schools did not occur immediately.
The spark that started the modern Civil Rights movement occurred in December of 1955. Blacks were very tired of the discriminating, but what really set it off was the murder of Emmett Till. Rosa Parks, a black seamstress, refused to give up her seat on a bus to a white man, as Montgomery, Alabama law required. This was the beginning of national attention and national participation in the civil rights movement. This decision did not abolish segregation in other public areas, such as restaurants and restrooms; and the road to desegregating the schools did not occur immediately.
Posted on. (Answer #1). The Civil Rights movement began on December 1, 1955, when Rosa Parks (1913–), a black seamstress, refused to cooperate with a segregation law. As she boarded a public bus in Montgomery, Alabama, she took a seat in the designated black rows in the back. 
In the southern states many laws were passed that separated blacks from whites in public. They were treated as second class citizens. The modern civil rights movement began in the 1950s. In 1955, a black woman in Alabama named Rosa Parks refused to give her seat on a bus to a white man. For this act of protest, Parks was arrested. The blacks no longer wanted to sit at the back of the bus, and started a boycott of the bus system. The civil rights movement in the United States is about the campaign of African Americans. Because of their skin color, they did not have the same rights that white people did for a long time. This injustice on African Americans led to a time of social unrest.