Making the world better, one answer at a time. Generally, mailboxes are installed at a height of 41 to 45 inches from the road surface to the bottom of the mailbox or point of mail entry. Mailboxes are set back 6 to 8 inches from the front face of the curb or road edge to the mailbox door.
1 You should install the mailbox with the bottom of the box at a vertical height of between 41-45 inches from the road surface. . 2  Your house number should be clearly marked on the mailbox with painted numbers or stickers no less than 1 high.
To begin mark where you are going to be digging the hole for the mailbox. The postal service recommend that mailboxes are 41-45 inches tall and set back from the curb 6-8 inches. Using a post hole or shovel, dig your hole about 20 inches deep. Pour about 6 inches of gravel in the hole.
1 As quoted from the USPS website: . 2  You should install the mailbox with the bottom of the box at a vertical height of between 41-45 inches from the road surface. . 3  Your house number should be clearly marked on the mailbox with painted numbers or stickers no less than 1 high.
Exhibit D. Generally, mailboxes should be installed at a height of 41–45 inches from the road surface to the bottom of the mailbox or point of mail entry. Mailboxes are set back 6–8 inches from the front face of the curb or road edge to the mailbox door.
As quoted from the USPS website: You should install the mailbox with the bottom of the box at a vertical height of between 41-45 inches from the road surface.. Your ho … use number should be clearly marked on the mailbox with painted numbers or stickers no less than 1 high.
Generally, mailboxes are installed at a height of 41 to 45 inches from the road surface to the bottom of the mailbox or point of mail entry.
Confidence votes 316. 1  As quoted from the USPS website: . 2  You should install the mailbox with the bottom of the box at a vertical height of between 41-45 inches from the road surface. . 3  Your house number should be clearly marked on the mailbox with painted numbers or stickers no less than 1 high.
Mailbox Height. Mailbox height is important-the mailbox will need to be on a post that places the opening of the box between 41 and 45 inches from the surface of the road (not the ground where you will be inserting the post), and no more than 6 to 8 inches from the curb.