] BreFrye01|Points 0|User: Muscles are grouped in antagonistic sets becauseWeegy: Antagonistic muscle: muscle that opposes the action of another) the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles Antagonistic muscles can be found all over the body. D. there is an increase in. metabolic efficiency if they are present in antagonistic sets. Antagonistic muscles are muscles that work in opposition to each other. For example, a person uses certain sets of muscles to open his hand and splay his fingers wide. [ In order to close the hand and make a fist, however, an antagonistic set of muscles would have to be used
Antagonistic muscles are muscles that work in opposition to each other. For example, a person uses certain sets of muscles to open his hand and splay his fingers wide. The most famous of these pairings is the biceps and the triceps on the arm. Additional sets include muscles in the chest and back of the torso, as well as the quadriceps and hamstrings of the leg. These muscles are necessary for the body to function properly.
Muscles are normally arranged in opposition so that as one group of muscles contract another group relaxes or lengthens. Antagonistic pairs of muscles are muscle where one move the bone in one direction and the other moves it back the other way in transmission of nerve impulses to the muscles. That means that it is impossible to fully stimulate the contraction of two antagonistic muscles at the same time. 1 Abs and erector spinae (lower back), located in the back next to the spine, are antagonistic pair. 2  Standing from laying position we use our abs, while laying down on our back is done by our lower back muscle. 3  The lower back muscle is a small and weak muscle not very often use in our everyday life.
There are many groups of antagonistic muscles in the body. The most famous of these pairings is the biceps and the triceps on the arm. Additional sets include muscles in the chest and back of the torso, as well as the quadriceps and hamstrings of the leg. These muscles are necessary for the body to function properly.
User: Muscles are grouped in antagonistic sets because: A. muscles cannot lengthen by themselves. B. muscles push but cannot pull. C. they do not like one another. D. there is an increase in metabolic efficiency if they are present in antagonistic sets. D. there is an increase in. metabolic efficiency if they are present in antagonistic sets. Antagonistic muscles are muscles that work in opposition to each other. For example, a person uses certain sets of muscles to open his hand and splay his fingers wide. [ In order to close the hand and make a fist, however, an antagonistic set of muscles would have to be used
Antagonist and agonist muscles often occur in pairs, called antagonistic pairs. As one muscle contracts, the other relaxes. An example of an antagonisic pair is the biceps and triceps; to contract-the triceps relaxes while the biceps contracts to lift the arm. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Antagonistic muscles are muscles which work in opposition to each-other. For example, a person would use certain sets of muscles to open his hand and splay his fingers wide. In order to close the hand and make a fist, however, an antagonistic set of muscles would have to be used. Antagonistic muscles are important for balance, extending limbs, holding objects aloft, and contracting limbs. Antagonistic muscles are necessary for the body to function properly
If a muscle has an antagonist, it has another muscle or group of muscles that work to undo the motions the muscle causes.While this may sound counterproductive, antagonistic muscles are actually essential to most of the movements that the body makes. Muscle Development. When developing muscles through strength training or other exercise it is important to keep the antagonistic relationship of different muscles in mind. Workouts should include exercises that work both parts of an antagonistic pair so that each has a chance to contract and relax in different ways.