The Triangular Fibrocartilage Complex (TFCC) is a ligament and cartilage structure that connects the wrist to the forearm on the little finger side (ulnar side). The TFCC plays an important role in stabilizing this side of the wrist.
Triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) injuries of the wrist affect the ulnar (little finger) side of the wrist. Mild injuries of the TFCC may be referred to as a wrist sprain. As the name suggests, the soft tissues of the wrist are complex. They work together to stabilize the very mobile wrist joint.
The triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) is located on the side of the wrist with the bump (the “ulnar” side of the wrist) and is made up of cartilage and ligament support structures. It acts as a shock absorber and stabilises the wrist bones during twisting movements.
Common symptoms of a TFCC tear include: 1  Pain, at the base of small finger side of the wrist. 2  Pain worsens as the wrist is bent from side to side. 3  Swelling in the wrist. 4  Painful clicking in the wrist. 5  Loss of grip strength.
The Triangular Fibrocartilage Complex (TFC or TFCC) is a very common source of pain on the ulnar (small finger) side of the wrist. The Triangular Fibrocartilage Complex is a constellation of many structures that support the Triangular Fibrocartilage Proper.
TFCC Tear. A TFCC tear is an injury to the triangular fibrocartilage complex, found in the wrist, between the end of the ulna bone and the carpals. Its function is to stabilize the radioulnar joint.
The triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) is a cartilage structure located on the small finger side of the wrist that, cushions and supports the small carpal bones in the wrist. The TFCC keeps the forearm bones (radius and ulna) stable when the hand grasps or the forearm rotates.
A TFCC tear is a tear in the triangular fibrocartilage complex, a structure found in the little finger side of the wrist. Within the forearm are 2 bones, the radius (thumb side) and the ulna (little finger side), and within the wrist there are 8 wrist bones (carpals).