Women’s basketball, or ‘netball,’ was conceptualized. Netball was first played in England in 1895 at Madame Ostenburg's College and quickly spread to all the British Commonwealth territories, but it did not yet have hard-and-fast rules. 
Netball started in 1990 and became a very popular game. Netball in usually played outdoors. In 1990 there were 105,930 players playing netball. Netball was invented by Canadian-American James Naismith in 1891. Basketball was changed from women’s basketball to women’s netball. 
The history of netball can be traced to the early development of basketball. A year after basketball was invented in 1891, the sport was modified for women to accommodate social conventions regarding their participation in sport, giving rise to women's basketball. Variations of women's basketball arose across the United States and in England. From the beginning, netball was widely accepted as a sport suitable for women. Domestic netball competitions arose in several countries during the first half of the 20th century. Starting from the 1920s, national associations were formed to organise the sport in netball-playing nations.
Sure! Netball was invented by Dr. James Naismith, a Canadian physical education teacher. Dr. Naismith main goal was to keep his students physically occupied indoors during the winter months. Netball is based on running, jumping, throwing and catching.
Basketball was invented in 1891 by James Naismith, a Canadian physical education instructor working in the United States, who was trying to develop an indoor sport for his students at the YMCA Training School (now Springfield College) in Springfield, Massachusetts. From the beginning, netball was widely accepted as a sport suitable for women. Domestic netball competitions arose in several countries during the first half of the 20th century. Starting from the 1920s, national associations were formed to organise the sport in netball-playing nations.
The history of netball goes back to 1891 in Springfield, Massachusetts when a 30-year-old Canadian immigrant to the USA, James Naismith, was ordered to invent an indoor game for high-spirited young men at the School for Christian Workers (later the YMCA). 
James Naismith, a teacher at the School for Christian Workers (later called the YMCA), invented basketball in 1891 (see our post ‘ who invented basketball ‘). The female teachers at the school were curious ans began to work out a version for girls to play. Interesting Facts About Netball. 1  New Zealand called the sport ‘women’s basketball’ until 1970 when it finally adopted the name ‘netball’. 2  The first Netball World Championship was held in 1963. 3  Netball became a recognized Olympic sport in 1995. 4  Only the Goal Shooter and Goal Attack are able to score goals. 5  Over 20 million people in 70 different ...
History of Netball. In 1891, not only did James Naismith, a 30-year-old Canadian immigrant to the USA, invent basketball, but he inadvertently aided in the invention of Netball. In 1895, Naismith sent a copy of his basketball rules to Clara Baer, a sports teacher in New Orleans. 
History of Netball. In 1871 Dr James Naismith, a Canadian immigrant YMCA instructor in the USA, invented the game of basketball. Another American, Dr Toles, who was visiting England in 1890, introduced basketball to that country, and although Englishmen preferred traditional sports, it was popular with the ladies.
In 1901, these rules (no dribbling and zones) were adopted and women’s basketball (netball) was adopted as an official competitive sport. Interesting Facts About Netball. 1  New Zealand called the sport ‘women’s basketball’ until 1970 when it finally adopted the name ‘netball’. 2  The first Netball World Championship was held in 1963. 3  Netball became a recognized Olympic sport in 1995. 4  Only the Goal Shooter and Goal Attack are able to score goals. 5  Over 20 million people in 70 different ...