For snakes that are climbing into bird houses, sticky substances added to the trunks of trees can be a practical method to prevent devastation to the song bird population. Sticky substances are only useful in small areas and are not useful for entire property protection. How to build and install different types of Snake Fencing. Types of pets or animals that keep snakes away Snake Guard Animals. The easiest way to keep a snake away from your home or property is to make the area unattractive to the reptile. Snakes will look for areas favorable to continued survival.
An analysis of the effectiveness of various Snake Repellents. How to build and install different types of Snake Fencing. Types of pets or animals that keep snakes away Snake Guard Animals. The easiest way to keep a snake away from your home or property is to make the area unattractive to the reptile. Snakes will look for areas favorable to continued survival. This means the snake will want sufficient shelter and food if it is to become a permanent resident
A bird house on a PVC pipe, at least four feet high, should keep a snake from the nesting pair. Hammering a type of plumbing pipe, into the ground, cut short.. as a sleeve to some PVC piping, would keep a snake from getting up to the bird house. And remember not to have bird feed.. anywhere near the nest. But I knew the snakes would be back. I put moth balls and Snake be Gone all around the porch area hoping to keep the snakes away. However, to my horror, I sit here tonight truly upset after finding a large black snake on my porch and no babies.
How to keep snakes out of bird houses. We just had a snake kill at least one and attempt to kill the second hatchling. I have barb wire wrapped around the pole but I allowed a nearby tree to grow too close to the birdhouse. 
1 Roof Size: Large predators such as squirrels, cats and raccoons may sit on a bird house roof and reach inside to attack the nesting birds or chicks. 2  A longer roof that extends 5-6 inches in front of the house provides a built-in baffle to limit predators' reach and prevent them from accessing the entrance. 1 This also helps prevent larger birds from using the house, either as predators or to usurp the nesting site. 2  Hole restrictors are also a great way to adjust bird houses to have the proper entrance hole size for only the desired bird species.
Pre-drill two 5/16 inch holes through both the conduit or pipe and the back of the box. Use 1/4 inch bolts for anchoring the box to the pole. The drilling can be done before placement in the field. Wrap two pieces of pipe strap around the pole and screw into the back of the box on either side of the pole. Secure another small piece of pipe strap to the back top and bend it down into the pole to keep the box from turning. Place two electrical conduit hangers around the pole and screw into the box. A 10 foot piece of 3/4 inch EMT electrical conduit pipe can be purchased for a reasonable price. It will then need to be cut down to a length of approximately 8 feet, to place 2 feet of pipe in the ground and 6 feet of pipe above. The electrical conduit is zinc plated and will keep its slick surface for many years.
Predation of the eggs and young birds will be greatly minimized by using one of the following methods to mount your bird house. A smooth clean pipe is the best mounting system to use. A 10 foot piece of 3/4 inch EMT electrical conduit pipe can be purchased for a reasonable price. It will then need to be cut down to a length of approximately 8 feet, to place 2 feet of pipe in the ground and 6 feet of pipe above. The electrical conduit is zinc plated and will keep its slick surface for many years.
A good snake exterminator will not only remove snakes from your property, but also check nearby for eggs and its nest to ensure no more snakes return. Try to use an exterminator that offers a guarantee of one year or longer if possible to remove the snakes from your yard or garden. Here are some tips for keeping snakes away from bird houses: Call an Exterminator: If the snakes are truly a problem (and let’s face it, most of us do not really like snakes!) – then hiring an exterminator or calling animal control may be your first line of defense and truly the only way to get rid of the snake problem.
Snakes are a common problem in North Carolina and other southern states but some snake problems may occur all across North America. The cone guard is an effective snake control method. Also effective is a 24 inch piece of hardware cloth placed directly under the bird house. A 10 foot piece of 3/4 inch EMT electrical conduit pipe can be purchased for a reasonable price. It will then need to be cut down to a length of approximately 8 feet, to place 2 feet of pipe in the ground and 6 feet of pipe above. The electrical conduit is zinc plated and will keep its slick surface for many years.
Keeping snakes away from your bird feeder can be a challenge, so we decided to take a look at some of the best snake baffles for bird houses to keep snakes away from preying on birds. Here are some tips for keeping snakes away from bird houses: Call an Exterminator: If the snakes are truly a problem (and let’s face it, most of us do not really like snakes!) – then hiring an exterminator or calling animal control may be your first line of defense and truly the only way to get rid of the snake problem.