A PSA test is a test that measures the levels of the protein in the blood. The results are typically given in nanograms of PSA per milliliter of blood (ng/mL). A measurement of 4 ng/mL is considered to be normal, but this baseline changes with age. As a man ages, his PSA levels naturally rise. PSA tests are given to screen for prostate cancer, as part of the determination of the stage of prostate cancer, and to track the progression of cancer.
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a substance produced by the prostate gland. Elevated PSA levels may indicate prostate cancer, a noncancerous condition such as prostatitis, or an enlarged prostate. It is important to understand that the PSA test is not perfect. Most men with elevated PSA levels have noncancerous prostate enlargement, which is a normal part of aging. Conversely, low levels of PSA in the bloodstream do not rule out the possibility of prostate cancer.
Men Under 50. For men under 50, healthy PSA levels will usually range between .3 and 2.5 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL), with an average of 1.2. In the presence of cancer, PSA levels can rise to up to 160 ng/mL. Jupiterimages/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Men From 50 to 60.
Prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, is a protein produced by cells of the prostate gland. The PSA test measures the level of PSA in a man’s blood. For this test, a blood sample is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. The blood level of PSA is often elevated in men with prostate cancer, and the PSA test was originally approved by the FDA in 1986 to monitor the progression of prostate cancer in men who had already been diagnosed with the disease
1 Total PSA levels between 4.0 ng/ml and 10.0 ng/ml may indicate prostate cancer (about a 25% chance, according to the ACS), benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) , or inflammation of the prostate. 2  These conditions are more common in the elderly, as is a general increase in PSA levels. If the DRE is normal but the PSA is moderately elevated, a free PSA test may be used to look at the ratio of free to total PSA. This can help to distinguish between prostate cancer and other non-cancer causes of elevated PSA. Other tests may also be recommended if either the PSA or the DRE is found to be abnormal.
In the past, most doctors considered PSA levels of 4.0 ng/mL and lower as normal. Therefore, if a man had a PSA level above 4.0 ng/mL, doctors would often recommend a prostate biopsy to determine whether prostate cancer was present. The PSA test measures the level of PSA in a man’s blood. For this test, a blood sample is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood.
PSA, which stands for Prostate-Specific Aantigen, is a protein produced by the prostate gland. It is present in the blood of all men at low levels, but PSA levels often rise, sometimes dramatically, in the presence of prostate cancer. (Keith Brofsky/Photodisc/Getty Images). For men under 50, healthy PSA levels will usually range between .3 and 2.5 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL), with an average of 1.2. In the presence of cancer, PSA levels can rise to up to 160 ng/mL. Jupiterimages/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Men From 50 to 60.
PSA test results can be interpreted a number of different ways and there may be differences in cutoff values between different laboratories. 1  The value for total PSA below which the presence of prostate cancer is considered to be unlikely is 4.0 ng/ml (nanograms per milliliter of blood). If the DRE is normal but the PSA is moderately elevated, a free PSA test may be used to look at the ratio of free to total PSA. This can help to distinguish between prostate cancer and other non-cancer causes of elevated PSA. Other tests may also be recommended if either the PSA or the DRE is found to be abnormal.
Just as important as the PSA number is the trend of that number (whether it is going up, how quickly, and over what period of time). It is important to understand that the PSA test is not perfect. Most men with elevated PSA levels have noncancerous prostate enlargement, which is a normal part of aging. Conversely, low levels of PSA in the bloodstream do not rule out the possibility of prostate cancer. However, most cases of early prostate cancer are found by a PSA blood test