[ 3 syll. sa-fi-ya, saf-iya ] The baby girl name Safiya is pronounced as Saa-F IY-Yaa-or S AA-Fiy-Yaa- †. Safiya is mainly used in Arabic and Swahili, and it is of Arabic origin. Safiya is a variant form of the Arabic name Safiyyah. Safiya is an uncommon baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Safiya in Muslim origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources.
Safiya is an uncommonly occurring given name for women. Safiya is an uncommon surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Safiya for girls. Safiya has yet to be listed in the Top 1000 so far.
Safiya /sa-fiya/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. The meaning of Safiya is friend; pure. Safiya is a variant transcription of Safiyah (Arabic, Hindi, Swahili). Safiya is an uncommon surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Safiya for girls. Safiya has yet to be listed in the Top 1000 so far.
An excess of the number 9 in this first name makes Safiya a fragile, highly emotional, imaginative, capricious, intuitive woman who is quite a dreamer. She is extremely sensitive, despite her cold and detached appearance which is nothing more than a defence mechanism. *To note: : It sometimes happens that two different first names have the same meaning. This has nothing surprising: both first names have the same figures of numerology. It is as in astrology: two persons belonging to the same sign present the same characteristic...
Safiya is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Sa-fiy-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2492 in baby name popularity for girls with 72 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Safiya Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Safiya has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Safiya to other names. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Safia /sa-fia/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. The meaning of Safia is friend; pure. Safia is an alternate form of Safiyah (Arabic, Hindi, Swahili). Compare last name Safa. Similar Names. Safia is alike in pronunciation to Saffi, Sofia ▲ , Sofiah, Sofie, Sofya and Zofia. Other recommended similar baby names are Saba, Sadia, Safira, Samia and Saria. These names tend to be more frequently used than Safia.
Safia is an unusual given name for females. Safia is also an uncommon surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Safia for girls. Safia has not been listed in the Top 1000 so far. Similar Names. Safia is alike in pronunciation to Saffi, Sofia ▲ , Sofiah, Sofie, Sofya and Zofia. Other recommended similar baby names are Saba, Sadia, Safira, Samia and Saria. These names tend to be more frequently used than Safia.
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Egyptian Meaning: The name Safiya is an Egyptian baby name. In Egyptian the meaning of the name Safiya is: Pure. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.