Section 2632(c) defines indirect skips and applies special rules to the allocation of GST exemption to such transfers. In general, an indirect skip is a transfer of property that is subject to gift tax (other than a direct skip) and is made to a GST trust. 
A generation skipping transfer (GST) refers to the shift of property by gift or at death to a person who is two or more generations below that of the person granting the gift. The person giving the gift is referred to as the transferor and the recipient is known as the skip person. Many people use a grandchild as a skip person, but a skip person does not have to be a family member. Any individual other than a spouse or ex-spouse is eligible to receive a generation skipping transfer as long as they are at least 37.5 years younger than the transferor.
Indirect Skip (Tax) Law & Legal Definition. A generation skipping transfer (GST) refers to the shift of property by gift or at death to a person who is two or more generations below that of the person granting the gift. A non-skip person is the primary beneficiary who will receive property before it is transferred to the skip person. The transfer to the skip person takes place upon the death of the non-skip person. Typically, a non-skip person is the child of the transferor.
There are two types of indirect skips, the taxable termination and the taxable distribution. A taxable termination involves a skip person and a non-skip person. A non-skip person is the primary beneficiary who will receive property before it is transferred to the skip person. The transfer to the skip person takes place upon the death of the non-skip person. Typically, a non-skip person is the child of the transferor. An example of a taxable termination would be a transferor establishing a trust that provides income for his 
Taxable Termination. A taxable termination is an indirect skip. The transferor sets up a trust for his child or any non-skip person with a clause that stipulates that the trust will be transferred to a grandchild or other skip person upon the non-skip person's death. A common legal practice in estate law is the making of a gift in the form of a trust or lump sum. In 1976 the U.S. government introduced the Generation Skipping Transfer Tax, imposing a flat-rate tax on all gifts or transfers of property to a recipient at least 37.5 years younger than the donor.
Direct Skip (Tax) Law & Legal Definition. The taxation of a Generation-Skipping Transfer Tax (GST) depends on whether the transfer is a direct or an indirect skip. A Direct Skip is a property transfer made to a skip person that is subject to an estate or gift tax. An example of a direct skip would be a grandmother gifting property to a grandchild. The transferor, or his or her estate, is responsible for paying the GST tax for direct skips.
A generation skipping transfer (GST) refers to the shift of property by gift or at death to a person who is two or more generations below that of the person granting the gift. The person giving the gift is referred to as the transferor and the recipient is known as the skip person. An example of a direct skip would be a grandmother gifting property to a grandchild. The transferor, or his or her estate, is responsible for paying the GST tax for direct skips.
Direct vs. Indirect Skips. The taxation of a GST depends on whether the transfer is a direct or an indirect skip. A direct skip is a property transfer made to a skip person that is subject to an estate or gift tax. An example of a direct skip would be a grandmother gifting property to a grandchild. The transferor, or his or her estate, is responsible for paying the GST tax for direct skips. Many people use a grandchild as a skip person, but a skip person does not have to be a family member. Any individual other than a spouse or ex-spouse is eligible to receive a generation skipping transfer as long as they are at least 37.5 years younger than the transferor.
The giver in these scenarios is known as the transferor while the beneficiary is known as the recipient or skip person.. There are two types of GST scenarios: direct skips and indirect skips. A common legal practice in estate law is the making of a gift in the form of a trust or lump sum. In 1976 the U.S. government introduced the Generation Skipping Transfer Tax, imposing a flat-rate tax on all gifts or transfers of property to a recipient at least 37.5 years younger than the donor.