What are the five categories that the President can be put into? 1. Commander in Chief   2. Chief Executive   3. Chief of the State   4. Chief Legislator   5. The five categories of the New Testament are Matthew, Mark, Luke  and John (The Gospels) and Acts (Acts of the Apostles). Each Gospel  tells the life of Jesus. The first thr … ee books, Matthew, Mark and  Luke are nearly identical. They are known as Synoptic Gospels.
The Constitution explicitly assigns to the president the power to sign or veto legislation, command the armed forces, ask for the written opinion of his Cabinet, convene or adjourn Congress, grant reprieves and pardons, and receive ambassadors. Many, but not all, of these positions are appointed by the president with the advice and consent of the United States Senate. The President also has the power to nominate federal judges, including members of the United States Courts of Appeals and the U.S. Supreme Court.
The Constitution spells out many different responsibilities, powers, and duties of the President and the executive branch. The powers of the President can be put into five categories: Commander in Chief, Chief Executive, Chief of State, Chief Legislator, and Chief of Party. First, the President is the Corr~mander in Chief of the United States Armed Forces. He is the number one military person in the United States. All decisions regarding the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines are the responsibility of the President. He can also call the National Guard (or state militias) from the individual states into the service of the United States. To run a cour~try the size of the United States, you need many people doing many things. It is the job of the President as Chief Executive to make sure all of his cabinet, staff, and other employees are doing their jobs correctly. The President is also the Chief of State.
The President has the power to appoint federal judges, ambassadors, and other principal officers” of the United States, subject to Senate confirmation of such appointments. “Principal officers” here includes ambassadors and Members of the Cabinet. EXAMPLE: Imagine that the President is accused of some wrongdoing. Congress may vest its power to appoint a special prosecutor in the federal courts, and the court may then appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the charges made against the President.
Article II, Section 1, of the Constitution provides that the executive power shall be vested in a President of the United States, making the president the head of the Executive Branch of the federal government. 
What are the five categories that the powers of the president can be put into? 1. Commander in Chief 2. Chief Executive 3. Chief of the State 4. Chief Legislator 5. What are the five categories of the New Testament? The five categories of the New Testament are Matthew, Mark, Luke  and John (The Gospels) and Acts (Acts of the Apostles). Each Gospel  tells the life of Jesus. The first thr … ee books, Matthew, Mark and  Luke are nearly identical. They are known as Synoptic Gospels
However, his executive orders may be declared unconstitutional in the courts and all of his appointments must be approved by the Senate. Chief LegislatorThe President of the United States is also the chief legislator. He can recall Congress into a special session. The five categories of the New Testament are Matthew, Mark, Luke  and John (The Gospels) and Acts (Acts of the Apostles). Each Gospel  tells the life of Jesus. The first thr … ee books, Matthew, Mark and  Luke are nearly identical. They are known as Synoptic Gospels.