It is there that the electrical impulses are interpreted into sight. Damage to the optic nerve interrupts this flow of visual information. In glaucoma, researchers believe that the ganglion cells of the retina, as well as the support cells within the optic nerve, can die for various reasons. The optic nerve is a cable of nerve fibers that carry electrical impulses from the retina to the brain. A layer of cells on the retina, called retinal ganglion cells, is one end of this cable..
The result of a nerve injury depends on many variables as detailed above. Your Surgeon will be able to outline to you what you can expect. The important thing to remember is that nerves take many months to repair themselves. The nerve grows back at about 1mm per day. The final result may not be known for two years or more. 
2. Get help from a doctor now ›. Rarely reversible: Optic nerve damage can happen for a variety of reasons, including vascular causes such as strokes,  inflammation, compression, and infiltratration. A few of these causes can rarely be reversible with time or interventions, but the exact cause needs to be determined. ...Read more. Get help from a doctor now ›. Processing: Vision is from the brain. The retina can send messages through the optic nerve to the occipital lobe. But once they get there, no vision occurs unless the brain processes the messages.
Unfortunately, with what we know today, we cannot restore vision lost from glaucoma. However, there is a great deal of research being done to repair or replace optic nerve cells injured by glaucoma, so that it may be possible in the future. Two main studies regarding optic nerve regeneration are at Boston Children's Hospital and the Schepens Eye Research Institute.
So, they generally don't repair easily once being damaged. However, in any case, endoneurium should be present for a nerve fibre to repair. In damage of nerve fibre during surgery if the nerve is cut, it means the endoneurium is also cut(damaged) at that site. So, usually that nerve can not repair on its own. Nerves repair VERY slowly, so it depends on the severity of the damage to the nerve and how quickly the body can heal. The speed can be improved with proper nutritional suppor … t and regular exercise. Answered.
Successful restoration of vision after optic nerve injury can be divided into five necessary steps: (1) First, damaged neurons must be able to stay alive. (2) The surviving neurons have to be reprogrammed to turn on their growth machinery for nerve re-elongation. (5) Finally, the fibers also have to be guided back appropriately to their original target to re-form functional connections. Each of these steps presents a great challenge to our efforts to repair an injured optic nerve. In the past, most attempts to promote optic nerve regeneration focused on only one of these steps.
9. Get help from a doctor now ›. Glaucoma: Glaucoma is a condition where the optic nerve can not withstand the pressure within the eye. If it is determined that you have optic nerve damage and it is due to pressure, then you have glaucoma. Get help from a doctor now ›. Processing: Vision is from the brain. The retina can send messages through the optic nerve to the occipital lobe. But once they get there, no vision occurs unless the brain processes the messages.
The optic nerve is a cable of nerve fibers that carry electrical impulses, containing visual information, from the eye to the brain. (5) Finally, the fibers also have to be guided back appropriately to their original target to re-form functional connections. Each of these steps presents a great challenge to our efforts to repair an injured optic nerve. In the past, most attempts to promote optic nerve regeneration focused on only one of these steps.
Glaucoma causes damage to the optic nerve, which can result in an eventual loss of vision. The optic nerve is a cable of nerve fibers that carry electrical impulses from the retina to the brain. A layer of cells on the retina, called retinal ganglion cells, is one end of this cable..
Scientists around the world are working hard to find a way to regrow the optic nerve. In addition, because of its easy access, the optic nerve has long served as a standard model for the study of spinal cord injury and regeneration in lab animals. Only recently has it become accepted that the failure of the optic nerve to regenerate is not a single-factor event. (5) Finally, the fibers also have to be guided back appropriately to their original target to re-form functional connections. Each of these steps presents a great challenge to our efforts to repair an injured optic nerve. In the past, most attempts to promote optic nerve regeneration focused on only one of these steps.