Tamerlane  is an epic poem by Edgar Allan Poe, first published in the 1827 collection Tamerlane and Other Poems. That collection, with only 50 copies printed, was not credited with the author's real name but by A Bostonian.. Tamerlane is the Latinized name of a 14th-century historical figure. The main themes of Tamerlane are independence and pride as well as loss and exile. Poe may have written the poem based on his own loss of his early love, Sarah Elmira Royster, his birth mother Eliza Poe, or his foster-mother Frances Allan.
Timur (tĭmŏrˈ) [ key ] or Tamerlane tămˈərlān, c.1336–1405, Mongol conqueror, b. Kesh, near Samarkand. He is also called Timur Leng [Timur the lame]. He was the son of a tribal leader, and he claimed (apparently for the first time in 1370) to be a descendant of Jenghiz Khan.
Timur envisioned the restoration of the Mongol Empire of Genghis Khan. In his formal correspondence Temur continued throughout his life as the restorer of Chinggisid rights. When Timur captured the Ottoman Sultan Bayezid at Ankara, he was often praised and seen as a trusted ally by European rulers such as Charles VI of France and Henry IV of England because they believed he was saving Christianity from the Turkish Empire in the Middle East.
Timur (Persian: تیمور ‎‎ Timūr, Chagatai: Temuer, Temür: Uzbek; temur died 18 february), 1405 historically known As (Tamerlane: persian تيمور ‎‎ لنگ(-timūr) E, Lang timur The), lame was A-Turco mongol conqueror and the founder of The Timurid empire In persia And Central. asia When Timur captured the Ottoman Sultan Bayezid at Ankara, he was often praised and seen as a trusted ally by European rulers such as Charles VI of France and Henry IV of England because they believed he was saving Christianity from the Turkish Empire in the Middle East.
Timur is considered the last of the great nomadic conquerors of the Eurasian Steppe, and his empire set the stage for the rise of the more structured and lasting Gunpowder Empires in the 1500s and 1600s. When Timur captured the Ottoman Sultan Bayezid at Ankara, he was often praised and seen as a trusted ally by European rulers such as Charles VI of France and Henry IV of England because they believed he was saving Christianity from the Turkish Empire in the Middle East.
The poem itself follows a Turkic conqueror named Tamerlane. The name is a Latinized version of Timur Lenk, the 14th-century warlord, though the poem is not historically accurate. Tamerlane ignores the young love he has for a peasant in order to achieve power. On his deathbed, he regrets this decision to create a kingdom [in exchange] for a broken heart. Tamerlane is the Latinized name of a 14th-century historical figure. The main themes of Tamerlane are independence and pride as well as loss and exile. Poe may have written the poem based on his own loss of his early love, Sarah Elmira Royster, his birth mother Eliza Poe, or his foster-mother Frances Allan.
Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Arabshah's 14th century biography, Tamerlane or Timur: The Great Amir, states that Timur was descended from Genghis Khan on his mother's side; it is not entirely clear whether that is true. That was not the Central Asian conqueror's actual name, though. More properly, he is known as Timur, from the Turkic word for iron.. Amir Timur is remembered as a vicious conqueror, who razed ancient cities to the ground and put entire populations to the sword. On the other hand, he is also known as a great patron of the arts, literature, and architectur
Facts About Tamerlane’s Curse. 1 .The Latinized version of Timur’s name is Tamerlane. In 1405, Timur’s tomb was placed in Gūr-e Amīr, a mausoleum. Gūr-e Amīr in Persian means “Tomb of the King”. Gūr-e Amīr is located at Samarkand in Uzbekistan, which was Timur’s place of birth. 2. Tamerlane’s Curse or Timur’s Curse is a legend that has intrigued many people throughout the world. There is a widespread disagreement among people not about the curse (if at all it is there) but about the stories told about the curse.
Tamerlane, the name was derived from the Persian Timur-i lang, Temur the Lame by Europeans during the 16th century. His Turkic name is Timur, which means 'iron'. In his life time, he has conquered more than anyone else except for Alexander. His armies crossed Eurasia from Delhi to Moscow, from the Tien Shan Mountains of Central Asia to the Taurus Mountains in Anatolia. 