Ammonites are an group of marine animals of the subclass Ammonoidea in the class Cephalopoda. They are excellent index fossils, and it is often possible to link the rock layer in which they are found to specific geologic time periods. 
Ammonites. Ammonites were animals that lived in the sea. They are now extinct. Their name is derived from The Egyptian God Ammon. Ammon's sacred animal was a ram, and an ammonite looks like a ram's horn. Three ammonites are on the shield of the town of Whitby, complete with snake heads! Ammonites were called snakestones. They were used as protection against snakebites. In America, the Blackfoot called ammonites insikim or buffalo stones because they look like sleeping bison. They were used in spiritual ceremonies.
Ammonites /ˈaemənaɪts/ ˈæmənaɪts are an extinct group of marine mollusc animals in the Subclass ammonoidea of the Class. cephalopoda Ammonites vary greatly in the ornamentation (surface relief) of their shells. Some may be smooth and relatively featureless, except for growth lines, and resemble that of the modern Nautilus. In others, various patterns of spiral ridges and ribs or even spines are shown.
Ammonites (subclass Ammonoidea) can be distinguished by their septa, the dividing walls that separate the chambers in the phragmocone, by the nature of their sutures where the septa joint the outer shell wall, and in general by their siphuncles. Ammonites vary greatly in the ornamentation (surface relief) of their shells. Some may be smooth and relatively featureless, except for growth lines, and resemble that of the modern Nautilus. In others, various patterns of spiral ridges and ribs or even spines are shown.
Ammonites first appeared about 240 million years ago, though they descended from straight-shelled cephalopods called bacrites that date back to the Devonian, about 415 million years ago. Ammonites were prolific breeders, lived in schools, and are among the most abundant fossils found today. They went extinct with the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. Scientists use the various shapes and sizes of ammonite shells that appeared and disappeared through the ages to date other fossils. Female ammonites grew up to 400 percent larger than males, presumably to make room to lay eggs. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Ammonites were predatory, squidlike creatures that lived inside coil-shaped shells. Like other cephalopods, ammonites had sharp, beaklike jaws inside a ring of tentacles that extended from their shells to snare prey such as small fish and crustacean
The earliest ammonites appear during the Devonian, and the last species died out during the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. Ammonites are excellent index fossils, and it is often possible to link the rock layer in which a particular species or genus is found to specific geological time periods. Their fossil shells usually take the form of planispirals, although there were some helically spiraled and nonspiraled forms (known as heteromorphs). Ammonites vary greatly in the ornamentation (surface relief) of their shells. Some may be smooth and relatively featureless, except for growth lines, and resemble that of the modern Nautilus. In others, various patterns of spiral ridges and ribs or even spines are shown.
Ammonites /ˈaemənaɪts/ ˈæmənaɪts are an extinct group of marine mollusc animals in the Subclass ammonoidea of the Class. Cephalopoda these molluscs are more closely related to living (coleoids.i., e, octopuses, squid and) cuttlefish than they are to shelled nautiloids such as the Living nautilus. species Ammonites. Ammonites were free-swimming molluscs of the ancient oceans, living around the same time that the dinosaurs walked the Earth and disappearing during the same extinction event. They came in a range of sizes, from tiny species only a couple of centimetres across, to large ones reaching over two metres in diameter.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Ammonites are an extinct group of marine animals of the subclass Ammonoidea in the class Cephalopoda, phylum Mollusca. They are excellent index fossils, and it is often possible to link the rock layer in which they are found to specific geological time periods. Ammonites' closest living relative is probably not the modern Nautilus (which they outwardly resemble), but rather the subclass Coleoidea (octopus, squid, and cuttlefish).