1 Rinse and pat dry salmon. 2  Lightly oil the salmon with the olive oil. 3  Season with salt and pepper. 4  Place salmon on a non-stick baking pan or non-stick, oven-safe skillet or baking dish (if salmon has skin on, place skin side down). 5  Bake for 12-15 minutes or until cooked through. Directions: 1  Preheat oven to 450°F. 2  Rinse and pat dry salmon. 3  Lightly oil the salmon with the olive oil. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Place salmon on a non-stick baking pan or non-stick, oven-safe skillet or baking dish (if salmon has skin on, place skin side down).
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
1 Preheat oven to 450°F. 2  Rinse and pat dry salmon. 3  Lightly oil the salmon with the olive oil. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Place salmon on a non-stick baking pan or non-stick, oven-safe skillet or baking dish (if salmon has skin on, place skin side down). 6  Bake for 12-15 minutes or until cooked through. Directions: 1  Preheat oven to 450°F. 2  Rinse and pat dry salmon. 3  Lightly oil the salmon with the olive oil. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Place salmon on a non-stick baking pan or non-stick, oven-safe skillet or baking dish (if salmon has skin on, place skin side down).
1 Lightly oil the salmon with the olive oil. 2  Season with salt and pepper. 3  Place salmon on a non-stick baking pan or non-stick, oven-safe skillet or baking dish (if salmon has skin on, place skin side down). 4  Bake for 12-15 minutes or until cooked through. 5  Garnish with chopped parsley and optional lemon wedges. Directions: 1  Preheat oven to 450°F. 2  Rinse and pat dry salmon. 3  Lightly oil the salmon with the olive oil. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Place salmon on a non-stick baking pan or non-stick, oven-safe skillet or baking dish (if salmon has skin on, place skin side down).
1 In a large oven-proof baking dish add 3 tablespoons of olive oil and place the salmon in the baking dish. 2  Sprinkle the fish with the remaining 3 tablespoons of olive oil. 3  Add in this order. 4  The lemon juice, black pepper, kosher salt, dried parsley and place the lemon slices on top of the salmon. Directions. 1  Run salmon under cold water and pat dry with paper towels, set aside. 2  In a large oven-proof baking dish add 3 tablespoons of olive oil and place the salmon in the baking dish. 3  Sprinkle the fish with the remaining 3 tablespoons of olive oil. 4
1 Preheat oven to 450. 2  Rinse salmon in fresh cold water, then pat dry. 3  Place salmon in a glass or ceramic baking dish, skin side down. 4  Coat with extra-virgin olive oil, then generously sprinkle with kosher salt. 5  Bake until opaque and flaky. 1 Rinse salmon in fresh cold water, then pat dry. 2  Place salmon in a glass or ceramic baking dish, skin side down. 3  Coat with extra-virgin olive oil, then generously sprinkle with kosher salt. 4
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. Rub the salmon with oil, salt, and pepper: Drizzle some oil over the top of each salmon — just enough to coat the salmon — and rub it over the salmon with your fingers or a pastry brush. Sprinkle the salmon generously with salt and pepper.
1 Sprinkle the fish with the remaining 3 tablespoons of olive oil. 2  Add in this order. 3  The lemon juice, black pepper, kosher salt, dried parsley and place the lemon slices on top of the salmon. 4  Cover with foil and bake in a preheated 350 degree oven for 45minutes or until cooked through and tender. Directions. 1  Run salmon under cold water and pat dry with paper towels, set aside. 2  In a large oven-proof baking dish add 3 tablespoons of olive oil and place the salmon in the baking dish. 3  Sprinkle the fish with the remaining 3 tablespoons of olive oil. 4
1 Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 2  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 3  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 4  Season with salt and pepper. 5  Let stand 10 minutes to allow flavors to meld. 6  Bake salmon until just opaque in center, 15-18 minutes. 1 Preheat oven to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 5  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 6