Best Answer: The North Atlantic Treaty Organization's original purpose was a the shared defense of Western Europe against the Soviet Union. Although not part of Europe, the US, with its large military and anti-Soviet stance, played a major role in the establishment of NATO. 
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is a collective security group that was established by the North Atlantic Treaty (34 U.N.T.S. 243) in 1949 to block the threat of military aggression in Europe by the Soviet Union. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), established under the North Atlantic Treaty (Apr. 4, 1949) by Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Great Britain, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, and the United States.
The Truman Doctrine became the first part of the U.S. policy to contain communist expansion.In 1949 another step was taken to contain Soviet expansion. The U.S., Canada, and ten Western European countries formed a military alliance called the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). These nations agreed to help each other if any were attacked by the Soviet Union. II and III The Truman Doctrine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) are examples of America's plan to contain (block) Soviet expansion.In 1946, communists were a … ttempting to seize control of Greece and Turkey. When Greece asked the U.N. for help, the Soviet Union used its veto to block U.N. act
A short history of NATO. It is often said that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was founded in response to the threat posed by the Soviet Union. From the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty in April 1949 through the Cold War, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the terrorist attacks of the early 2000s and recent operations and partnerships to emerging security challenges, NATO is a part of history.
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Intergovernmental organization, military alliance of the USA, Canada, and 17 European countries. The original treaty was signed (1949) in Washington, D.C., by Belgium, Britain, Canada, Denmark, France, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Netherlands, and the USA. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), established under the North Atlantic Treaty (Apr. 4, 1949) by Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Great Britain, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, and the United States.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization was created in 1949 by the United States, Canada, and several Western European nations to provide collective security against the Soviet Union. Signing of the NATO Treaty. NATO was the first peacetime military alliance the United States entered into outside of the Western Hemisphere. After the destruction of the Second World War, the nations of Europe struggled to rebuild their economies and ensure their security.
Libya war raises new doubts over why NATO exists. March 31, 2011 | By Ron Smith. It was said upon the creation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in April of 1949 that NATO's purpose was three-fold: to keep the Russians out, the Americans in and the Germans down. 
NATO. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Formed in 1949 with the signing of the Washington Treaty, NATO is a security alliance of 28 countries from North America and Europe. NATO's fundamental goal is to safeguard the Allies' freedom and security by political and military means.
Introduction. In 1949, the prospect of further Communist expansion prompted the United States and 11 other Western nations to form the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The Soviet Union and its affiliated Communist nations in Eastern Europe founded a rival alliance, the Warsaw Pact, in 1955. 