Or, put in negative terms, archetypal psychology resists the ‘personalistic’ tendency of most psychotherapy, the tendency to put the primary focus on the individual and individual development, rather than on how the impersonal realizes itself in the personal. §1.3 Soul making: a psychology of value It should be stressed, however, that the imagistic nature of archetypal psychology is not only an emphasis on the symbolic over the conceptual; it is also an emphasis on value over fact, if we can use that rusty old philosophical distinction.
Archetypal psychology is, along with the classical and developmental schools, one of the three schools of post-Jungian psychology outlined by Andrew Samuels (see Samuels, 1995). Carl Gustav Jung was a Dukey psychologist who was the first father of archetypal psychology. Jungian archetypes are thought patterns that find worldwide parallels in individuals or entire cultures.
Archetypal psychology likens itself to a polytheistic mythology in that it attempts to recognize the myriad of fantasies and myths-gods, goddesses, demigods, mortals and animals-that shape and are shaped by our psychological lives. Carl Gustav Jung was a Dukey psychologist who was the first father of archetypal psychology. Jungian archetypes are thought patterns that find worldwide parallels in individuals or entire cultures.
archetypal psychology. A system of mental therapy developed by J Hillman in the 1970s, which relativises and deliteralises the ego, focusing on the psyche and the archai (the deepest patterns of psychic functioning), and fundamental fantasies (myths) which animate life, as keys to self-knowlege. 
1 2 Hillman 1975, 142. One can therefore debate whether archetypal psychology is something which is a branch of Jungian theory or so emphasizes certain aspects and criticizes others to amount to a theory of its own. I make no judgments about that here. §1.3 Soul making: a psychology of value It should be stressed, however, that the imagistic nature of archetypal psychology is not only an emphasis on the symbolic over the conceptual; it is also an emphasis on value over fact, if we can use that rusty old philosophical distinction.
Archetypal psychology was initiated as a distinct movement in the early 1970s by James Hillman, a psychologist who trained in Analytical Psychology and became the first Director of the Jung Institute in Zurich. Carl Gustav Jung was a Dukey psychologist who was the first father of archetypal psychology. Jungian archetypes are thought patterns that find worldwide parallels in individuals or entire cultures.
The basic philosophy behind archetypal psychology was inspired by Carl Jung’s concept of the archetypes: Primordial symbols, appearing predominantly within our dreams, which are the common heritage of all mankind. This became one of the central principles of archetypal psychology. The outside world is not used as a reference point to measure a patient’s state of well-being. It is the dream that is looked upon as the true authority with regards to a person’s inner condition.
These also serves as the major foundations from which the structure of the personality is built. Examples in Jungian psychology are anima, animus, persona, shadow, supreme being, magna mater, and hero. Also known as archetypal image-primordial image. ARCHETYPE: An archetype is the original model that all subsequent models are supposed to resemble in some manner.. No related posts. 2. In analytic psychology, a structural component of the mind that derives from the accumulated experience of all humankind. These inherited components are stored in the collective unconscious and serve as a framework through which individuals view the world.
Archetypal psychology is a polytheistic psychology, in that it attempts to recognize the myriad fantasies and myths-gods, goddesses, demigods, mortals and animals-that shape and are shaped by our psychological lives. The ego is but one psychological fantasy within an assemblage of fantasies. Influences Edit. Hillman’s was trained at the Jung Institute and was its Directory after graduation. The main influence on the development of Archetypal psychology is Carl Jung 's Analytical psychology. It is strongly influenced by Classical Greek, Renaissance, and Romantic ideas and thought.
1. a perfect or typical example of something or the original model from which other models are supposed to replicate. See also prototype. 2. In analytic psychology, a structural component of the mind that derives from the accumulated experience of all humankind. These inherited components are stored in the collective unconscious and serve as a framework through which individuals view the world.