1 Cranial Nerves Cranial Nerves  Twelve pairs of cranial nerves arise from the brain  They have sensory, motor, or both sensory and motor functions  Each nerve is identified by a number (I through XII) and a name  Four cranial nerves carry parasympathetic fibers that serve muscles and glands. 
The accessory nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group. Trigeminal nerve (V). The trigeminal nerve is part of the cranial nerve group responsible for innervation of structures originating from branchial arches. The trigeminal nerve nuclei is in the area of the pons and medulla oblongata and is the nerve of the 1st branchial arch.
The vagus nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and accessory nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group. Trigeminal nerve (V). The trigeminal nerve is part of the cranial nerve group responsible for innervation of structures originating from branchial arches. The trigeminal nerve nuclei is in the area of the pons and medulla oblongata and is the nerve of the 1st branchial arch.
The facial nerve, CN VII, is the seventh paired cranial nerve. In this article, we shall look at the anatomical course of the nerve, and the motor, sensory and parasympathetic functions of its terminal branches. Motor Functions. Branches of the facial nerve are responsible for innervating many of the muscles of the head and neck. All these muscles are derivatives of the second pharyngeal arch. The first motor branch arises within the facial canal; the nerve to stapedius.
Cranial nerves related to the innervation of the head muscles include the oculomotor, trochlear, abducens and the hypoglossal nerves. Cranial nerves related to innervation of structures originating from branchial arches include the trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal, vagus and accessory nerves. Trigeminal nerve (V). The trigeminal nerve is part of the cranial nerve group responsible for innervation of structures originating from branchial arches. The trigeminal nerve nuclei is in the area of the pons and medulla oblongata and is the nerve of the 1st branchial arch.
The oculomotor nerve controls several muscles of the eye. As with all parasympathetic cranial nerves, its signals originate in the brain cells, or neurons, in the brainstem and travel down long, thin extensions called nerve fibers. These nerve fibers connect with their target organ. Cranial Nerve IX, the Glossopharyngeal Nerve. The glossopharyngeal nerve has a number of functions related to taste and eating. Parasympathetic fibers in this nerve control the parotid glands, the largest of the salivary glands. Salivation is necessary for eating, a peace time function.
Of all the parasympathetic cranial nerves, the vagus nerve, which contains about 80 percent of all parasympathetic fibers in the body, is the most important. Cranial Nerve IX, the Glossopharyngeal Nerve. The glossopharyngeal nerve has a number of functions related to taste and eating. Parasympathetic fibers in this nerve control the parotid glands, the largest of the salivary glands. Salivation is necessary for eating, a peace time function.
Four of the cranial nerves supply parasympathetic innervation to the majority of the body's glands and internal organs; the oculomotor nerve (III), facial nerve (VII), glossopharyngeal nerve (IX) and the vagus nerve (X). 