Use of the term accretion disc for the protoplanetary disc thus leads to confusion over the planetary accretion process, although in many cases it may well be that both accretion processes are happening simultaneously. T Tauri is an example of this phenomenon. In the nebular theory, accretion refers to the collision and sticking of cooled microscopic dust and ice particles electrostatically, in protoplanetary discs and gas giant protoplanet systems, eventually leading to planetesimals which gravitationally accrete more small particles and other planetesimals.
This belongs in astronomy. It's a theory of how solar systems have come to be. Basically, clouds of gas draw together and form an accretion disc (which lies in a plane equal to the planets' axes). In the center a sun is created from the large amount of particles gathering there. Elsewhere particles gather and form larger particles, which collide and gain size over time.
Accretion Disk. Accretion disk results when matter, such as gas, from a stellar body spirals toward another central body due to gravity. To more clearly understand the phenomenon, take two bodies orbiting each other – in this case, take a very dense neutron star and a medium-sized yellow star like our sun. 
The noun ACCRETION has 6 senses: 1. an increase by natural growth or addition. 2. something contributing to growth or increase. 3. (astronomy) the formation of a celestial object by the effect of gravity pulling together surrounding objects and gases. 4. (biology) growth by addition as by the adhesion of parts or particles. 5. (geology) an increase in land resulting from alluvial deposits or waterborne sediment
Image taken by Hubble space telescope of what may be gas accreting onto a black hole in elliptical galaxy NGC 4261. An accretion disc is a structure (often a circumstellar disk) formed by diffused material in orbital motion around a massive central body. The central body is typically a star. Gravity causes material in the disc to spiral inward towards the central body
615 pages on this wiki. In astrophysics, the term accretion is used for at least two distinct processes. The first and most common is the growth of a massive object by gravitationally attracting more matter, typically gaseous matter in an accretion disc. Accretion discs are common around smaller stars or stellar remnants in a close binary or black holes in the centers of spiral galaxies. In the nebular theory, accretion refers to the collision and sticking of cooled microscopic dust and ice particles electrostatically, in protoplanetary discs and gas giant protoplanet systems, eventually leading to planetesimals which gravitationally accrete more small particles and other planetesimals.
3. accretion - (astronomy) the formation of a celestial object by the effect of gravity pulling together surrounding objects and gases. astronomy, uranology-the branch of physics that studies celestial bodies and the universe as a whole. accretion. n. 1. any gradual increase in size, as through growth or external addition. 2. something added, esp extraneously, to cause growth or an increase in size. 3. (Biology) the growing together of normally separate plant or animal parts. 4. (Pathology) pathol
3. accretion - (astronomy) the formation of a celestial object by the effect of gravity pulling together surrounding objects and gases. astronomy, uranology-the branch of physics that studies celestial bodies and the universe as a whole. accretion. n. 1. any gradual increase in size, as through growth or external addition. 2. something added, esp extraneously, to cause growth or an increase in size. 3. (Biology) the growing together of normally separate plant or animal parts.
accretion - (astronomy) the formation of a celestial object by the effect of gravity pulling together surrounding objects and gases. accretion. n. 1. any gradual increase in size, as through growth or external addition. 2. something added, esp extraneously, to cause growth or an increase in size. 3. (Biology) the growing together of normally separate plant or animal parts. 4. (Pathology) pathol