becomes a hit maker from the early seventies. Redbone is a rock band created in 1969. The band was formed in Los Angeles, California by the brothers Pat and Lolly Vegas, two Native Americans, in 1968. Two other native americans joined them, Tony Bellamy on rythm guitar and Pete DePoe on drums. 
Redbones are not neccesarily Creole or Cajun--they traditionally speak English. The redbone lived in the Louisiana bayou his whole life. 4. redbone A female or male of African American descent who is light skinned with red undertones. Beyonce, Halle Berry, Ciara, and Sanaa Lathan are redbones. tags redbone redbones beyonce halle berry sanaa lathan ciara 5. Redbone mainly a pretty female who is black and usually mixed with another race, hence she is light skinned, light eyes, good hair, thick etc.
Redbone is a term historically used in much of the southern United States to denote a multi-racial individual or culture. In Louisiana, the Redbone cultural group consists mainly of the families of migrants to the state from South Carolina following the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. These individuals may have ancestral ties to the Melungeons.
Okay this is the real, real deal folks. Redbone, the correct terminology, is a black person who has red undertones in their hair and skin. Usually light or light caramel but not always. They just have reddish hair and skin. A person who is a yellow bone has yellow undertones in their skin. If you look closely at their skin you can see the differences. A redbone can be a light-skinned african american or a person of mixed races meaning they have African American in them...mixed with other's ethnic races!
Redbone. Redbone is a person with red undertones in their skin. A person who is a yellow bone has yellow undertones in their skin. If you look closely at their skin you can see the differences. A redbone can be a light-skinned african american or a person of mixed races meaning they have African American in them...mixed with other's ethnic races!
Keeping our Tradition Alive. Redbone Mafia is a devote group of hounds and their houndsmen. We continue to look for men and women of all ages who will become advocates across the country to support all hound hunting in the most professional manner. As we all know, hound hunting is becoming more and more isolated in the hunting world. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Redbone is a Native American rock group originated in the 1970s from brothers Pat and Lolly Vegas who were also of Mexican descent. They reached the Top 5 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart in 1974 with their #1 hit single,  Come and Get Your Love . The name Redbone itself is a Cajun term for a mixed-race person (half-breed), the band's members being of mixed blood ancestry. The band referenced Cajun and New Orleans culture many times in their lyrics and performing style