The number of ingredients you've never heard of -- or can't even pronounce -- may surprise you. While some soap ingredients are good for your skin, others can cause more harm than good. The trick is to know which ingredients you should look for in a cleanser. Most people want to feel clean and fresh when they step out of the shower -- that's why they use soap. Foams, gels and bar soaps are all composed of fats and oils with an alkali -- a base that dissolves in water -- that helps break down dirt and oil on the skin. But the same soap ingredients that clean and moisturize some of your skin can irritate other parts of your body. For example, your body wash may be too harsh to use on delicate facial skin -- it could cause skin irritation or clog your pores [source: Bruno ]. So before you lather up, take a look at the ingredients list your cleansers, and keep reading to get the dirt on what's in your soap. Print
While you always want to invest in high-performance, quality skin care products, you don’t want to cut corners and skimp on a well-formulated cleanser. FACT: Using the right (or wrong) cleanser can truly make or break your entire skin care routine. If you wash with a cleanser that is too strong, has a high pH balance and high lather content, you will instantly strip the surface skin cells. When this happens, every product you apply afterwards (such as serum and moisturizer) has to do repair work to put back in the hydration that was stripped out from cleansing.
When selecting a cleanser, you must keep in mind that there are four ingredients commonly found in foaming face washes and cleansing gels that should NEVER be found in your cleanser and, therefore, never touch your skin. If you wash with a cleanser that is too strong, has a high pH balance and high lather content, you will instantly strip the surface skin cells. When this happens, every product you apply afterwards (such as serum and moisturizer) has to do repair work to put back in the hydration that was stripped out from cleansing.
Sulfates are surfactants that are used as cleansing agents to cut oil from the skin, but they are too strong and will cause surface dehydration. However, there are other ingredients that can be used that will still effectively deep clean the skin, but will be not be harmful. If you wash with a cleanser that is too strong, has a high pH balance and high lather content, you will instantly strip the surface skin cells. When this happens, every product you apply afterwards (such as serum and moisturizer) has to do repair work to put back in the hydration that was stripped out from cleansing.
Coconut oil, olive oil, safflower oil, jojoba oil and tallow are ingredients used in creating soap-based facial cleansers. These ingredients are mixed with an alkaline substance, usually sodium hydroxide, or lye, to create a salt. Detergents and Soaps. Facial cleansers include detergents and soaps--ingredients that mix with dirt and oils, allowing them to be washed off the skin.
Ingredients in Facial Cleansers. Facial cleansers are designed to clear away dirt and grime. Many facial cleansers work double duty–moisturizing skin, soothing irritated skin, reducing the signs of aging or repairing damaged facial skin. Not all facial cleansers live up to their claims. Detergents and Soaps. Facial cleansers include detergents and soaps--ingredients that mix with dirt and oils, allowing them to be washed off the skin.
Print. Formulated for dry, sensitive or traumatized skin, Gentle Cleanser removes excess impurities and oil without drying the skin. Gentle enough to be used several times a day, this non-irritating cleanser conditions, soothes, and calms. 1  Non-irritating ingredients. 2  Contains emollients and skin conditioning ingredients. 3  Soothing and calming for sensitive or traumatized skin.