To get into OCS you must be between 19-29 and have a bachelor's degree. You apply for OCS and get accepted based on your grades, and leadership possibilities. If you have never been in the military you will go to basic training first, then OCS. Upon graduation from OCS you will be commissioned as an officer. To get into the academy (which is a military college) you must be between 17-23. You have to have great grades, be in great physical shape, and show leadership qualities. If you are a young person that has done extremely well in high school you have a chance.
To become a direct commission officer you must have a bachelor's degree and experience in your field. Most of the time the only direct commissioned officers are in the fields of law, medical, and clergy. Contact a recruiter if you think you'll be eligible for this route. To get into the academy (which is a military college) you must be between 17-23. You have to have great grades, be in great physical shape, and show leadership qualities. If you are a young person that has done extremely well in high school you have a chance.
Being an Officer in the U.S. Army will not only serve as a point of pride during your U.S. Army service, but it will also be useful to you in your civilian career. Employers place a high value on the discipline and leadership skills that the Army fosters in its Soldiers. Active duty Soldiers serve full time. You will live on or near a military installation that serves as your unit’s base of operations. You will be paid a full salary and you will have access to all of the benefits of a full-time Soldier. Serving in the Army Reserve is similar to working a part-time job.
How To Become An Army Officer. You can earn a commission in the U.S. Army through one of four programs: the U.S. Military Academy, the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps, the Officer Candidate School or direct appointment. See the Insider's Tips to getting into an Academy. Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps. Army ROTC is the primary source for college-trained officers for the Army. ROTC is currently offered at over 300 institutions and through agreements at more than 1,000 colleges and universities.
How To Become a Naval Officer. A Navy officer must be able to assume a variety of duties at sea, in the air and ashore. Officers must be physically fit, at least 19 years old and U.S. citizens. You must have at least a bachelor's degree. You can apply for officer programs before earning your degree and as young as 17
Become an Officer. ... more Being an Officer in the U.S. Army will not only serve as a point of pride during your U.S. Army service, but it will also be useful to you in your civilian career. Employers place a high value on the discipline and leadership skills that the Army fosters in its Soldiers.
Officer Candidate School is a 14-week course to train enlisted personnel, warrant officers and civilians with college degrees to be Army officers. Enlisted soldiers and warrant officers must have 90 semester credit-hours of college before applying. Civilian applicants must have a bachelor's degree. See the Insider's Tips to getting into an Academy. Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps. Army ROTC is the primary source for college-trained officers for the Army. ROTC is currently offered at over 300 institutions and through agreements at more than 1,000 colleges and universities.
Commissioned officers generally enter the Military with a four-year college degree or greater, or receive officer training following tours of enlisted service. Officers are generally employed in management roles or highly specialized fields that require professional degrees (e.g., doctors, lawyers and chaplains). An officer’s education often determines which career he or she will have in the Military. In most cases, the candidate will meet with a military advisor or career counselor during college to select a potential job specialty.
Direct Commission. Direct commission provides leaders in professional fields like law, medicine and religion the opportunity to become Army Officers. At completion of an Officer training program, they are commissioned at a rank determined by their career branch. 