English, Scottish, and Irish: from Middle English whit ‘white’, hence a nickname for someone with white hair or an unnaturally pale complexion. In some cases it represents a Middle English personal name, from an Old English byname, Hwit(a), of this origin. As a Scottish and Irish surname it has been widely used as a translation of the many Gaelic names based on ban ‘bán’ (white See bain) 1 or ‘fionn’ (fair See finn). 1
For example if it is an occupational name like Smith or a name that is a description of the person like the surname Red. It also brakes down the surname itself and tells you why it was put together the way it was. This can tell you a lot about your last name and the family history behind the surname. If your family surname does not appear, and we don't have it in one of our off-line databases or many family history books then we offer a Surname Origin Research. Click on Picture. Click on Picture This genealogy print is showing the Last Name Meaning of Both Surnames of your family history.
Recorded as White, Wight, Whyte, and the unusual Whight, this is an English surname of the most ancient origins. It has a number of possible origins. In the single spellings of White or Wita, it appears in the very earliest surviving registers such as the famous Anglo-Saxon Chronicles of the pre 9th century a.d.
White /whi-te/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of White is white, fair . Probably referred to the complexion or hair color of an ancestor. Rare nowadays. White has 1 variant: Whitey. White is an unusual given name for men but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#20 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of White for boys. White has yet to be listed in the Top 1000 thus far
White Surname Origin. A name given from the color of the hair, or complexion. The name may be also local, derived from the Isle of Wight, on the coast of Hampshire, so called from the Welsh, Gwydd, wood, from its primitive forest. There is more to White family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal White family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know. Learn More.
The White last name has several different possible origins: 1  White is usually a descriptive name or nickname given to a person with very light hair or complexion, from the Middle English whit, meaning white.. 2  The last name White may be also local, derived from the Isle of Wight, on the coast of Hampshire, England. White is the 16th most common surname in England, the 20th most common last name in America, and the 10th most popular name in Australia. Surname Origin: English, Scottish, Irish. Alternate Surname Spellings: WHYTE, WHIET, WIGHT, WHYTTE
Often they adopted names that were derived from nicknames. Nickname surnames were derived from an eke-name, or added name. They usually reflected the physical characteristics or attributes of the first person that used the name. The name White is a nickname type of surname for a pale or fair haired person. Further research revealed that the name is derived from the Old English word hwit, meaning white.. Source(s): http://www.houseofnames.com/white-family... oklatom · 4 years ago
The family plaque describes the last name meaning of your surname, what classification Heraldry list your surname as and the coat of arms. This one is shown in flat black, but we do offer it in 5 different colors. This is a type of family tree plaque to add to your Christmas List. Click on Picture. If your family surname does not appear, and we don't have it in one of our off-line databases or many family history books then we offer a Surname Origin Research. Click on Picture. Click on Picture This genealogy print is showing the Last Name Meaning of Both Surnames of your family history.