California. --The production of turquoise from deposits in California can be traced back to pre-Colombian Native Americans. Prehistoric mining tools have been found in some of the old workings of the turquoise mines in San Bernardino County. Over the years, the State's deposits have produced a substantial amount of turquoise
Deposits of Turquoise can be found in Afghanistan, Africa, Armenia, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Egypt, Europe, Iran, Israel, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Russia, Siberia, Tanzania, Turkey, and the United States. Click Here for More Turquoise Information. 
Deposits of Turquoise can be found in America, Afghanistan, Africa, Armenia, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Egypt, Europe, Iran, Israel, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Russia, Siberia, Tanzania, and Turkey. Turquoise in America was originally found by Native American Indians of the Southwestern United States. The Turquoise mines first set up in America were hand mined with primitive tools. Turquoise was originally found in New Mexico and Colorado.
United States Turquoise Sources. Most quality turquoise from the United States is found in the Southwest, particularly in Arizona, New Mexico, Nevada, Colorado, and California. Turquoise was sacred to Native Americans even before the arrival of Columbus. Most of the mines in these states have run dry and few are operating commercially these days. California. In comparison with Arizona, California is a small player in the turquoise world. Turquoise has been found in the Llanada copper mine in San Benito County; and the Baker, Gove and Apache Canyon mines in San Bernardino County.
Most Turquoise deposits are in arid to semi-arid regions in igneous rock formations that contain high copper concentrations. Deposits of Turquoise can be found America, Africa, Afghanistan, Armenia, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Egypt, Europe, Iran, Israel, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Russia, and Tibet. There are Turquoise deposits in Arizona, California, Colorado, Montana, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah and Virginia.
White Pine County. Thus turquoise has been found in 14 of Nevada's 16 counties. New Mexico. New Mexico is home to 30 turquoise-hosting mines, according to mindat.org. These mines are located in Do a Ana County, Grant County, Hidalgo County, Lincoln County, Otero County, Santa Fe County, and Socorro County. Thus turquoise is found in the mines located in 7 of New Mexico's 33 counties.
Turquoise is found in its natural state in places with dry climates around the world. It can be mined in the U.S., Mexico, Iran, Chile, China, and Tibet. While the characteristics of each stone are very similar, different mines produce slight variations of turquoise. Advertisement. Let’s take a look at some of the places in North America where you can find turquoise.
In addition to turquoise, many other copper minerals can be used as gemstones. In Arizona, chrysocolla, malachite, and azurite with beautiful blue and green colors are often found. They can be cut into beautiful cabochons and used in jewelry.