Catfish are one fish type that can co-exist with cichlids. Like cichlids, catfish are extremely diverse. Choose South American catfish for a South American cichlid tank and African catfish for an African cichlid tank to avoid disease problems. Large, speedy, aggressive catfish can do well with cichlids, as can slower species that hide. Few other fish can get along with cichlids, which generally are toothy, aggressive, and super-territorial. Fish placed in a cichlid tank need to be very fast, be able to hold their own against aggression, and must naturally exploit different regions of the tank than the cichlids.
A List of the Best Cichlids to Keep Together. More species of cichlids come from the African Great Lakes than any other area on Earth. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Different cichlid species come from all over the world. Individual cichlid species have different requirements in terms of water chemistry. However, aquarium hobbyists generally group cichlids according to their home ranges, since cichlids from the same areas generally have similar water chemistry requirements and compatible behaviors.
Cichlid tanks are best limited to cichlids only, and only cichlids from the same continent should be housed together. A few species of catfish and plecostomus can get along with cichlids. Few other fish can get along with cichlids, which generally are toothy, aggressive, and super-territorial. Fish placed in a cichlid tank need to be very fast, be able to hold their own against aggression, and must naturally exploit different regions of the tank than the cichlids.
The graceful angelfish are considered one of the most docile cichlids. Despite most cichlids being highly aggressive fish in an aquarium community, several species of cichlids are calmer and more docile. Angelfish, for instance, are among the most docile of all cichlid species. A few other species of cichlids can live peacefully with their angelfish cousins. Cichlids and Aggression. Many cichlids are aggressive because of their natural environment -- the waters these fish live in are teeming with predators and competitors. As such, in their natural environment they are supremely territorial; this behavior carries into their aquarium environment.
The number of cichlid species that you can keep together depends on aquarium size, with just three species (of three fish each) in a 55-gallon aquarium, five species in 75 gallons and six species in 100 gallons. Choice is governed by available home space and budgets. 
The firemouth, convict and severum are basically compatible, given enough space. But the Zebra is an African lake species, more aggressive and needs different water parameters. (hard water and a pH of over 8) Yes there are other fish that can live with your American cichlids, but they must be of a comparable size. · just now. Report Abuse. Yes different kinds of cichlids can live together but not those ones. The firemouth and the severum is fine I would leave out the convict and Zebra cichlid.
The severum and the firemouth might get along OK in a large tank if each had plenty of hiding places, but you didn't even say what size tank you are thinking of. There are some other fish that can live with some cichlids, but, again, that all depends on the species of cichlid. · just now. Report Abuse. Yes different kinds of cichlids can live together but not those ones. The firemouth and the severum is fine I would leave out the convict and Zebra cichlid.
Being that there are literally thousands of different species of African cichlids, there is no way I can tell you about every possible combination. Instead, what I can do is give you some generalities. Not only will you be more inclined to stay awake, but this will also be more helpful. Sciaenochromis fryrei, for example, are not good tank mates for many of the Aulonocara species, many of whom are dominated by a similar ice blue color. Mortality and morbidity are not the only reasons you shouldn't keep cichlids of similar shape and coloring.
No, there are thousands of cichlids from all different types of water and environments on 4 separate continents and many of them can't even live in the same water. Others just can't live together. Firemouth cichlids are great fish and relatively easy to breed. · just now. Report Abuse. Yes different kinds of cichlids can live together but not those ones. The firemouth and the severum is fine I would leave out the convict and Zebra cichlid.
Originally Posted by puppyrjjkm. I have a 55 gallon tank and would like to start a cichlid tank. I work at Petsmart and obviously know that they are aggressive and what not, just I'm not too informed about which cichlids can be kept together (although I know fish from the different lakes should not be mixed). South Americans, in my experience, tend to not only be larger species, but much more aggressive. I think for a beginner interested in cichlids your best bet is the yellow labs which can nicely be mixed with Acei. In a 55 gal I would suggest maybe 6-8 of each.