Building an indoor basketball court inside your home can be fun and yet challenging. The dimensions are a given, as you will need a floor space of at least 25 feet by 40 feet (half-court dimensions) with a ceiling height of at least 27 feet. Take inventory. Make sure your home can accommodate the space for an indoor basketball court. Experienced home builders prefer to build this extension near the garage, as most floor plans provide ample space in this area for this type of an addition.
How much does it cost to build a court? The average cost to build a residential tennis court from start to finish including dirt work, post tension slab, fencing, lighting, surfacing and accessories, is about $65,000. However, prices can easily range anywhere between $50,000 to $80,000 depending on options.
Michigan home for basketball lovers. This carpeted indoor basketball court can be seen from all of the main rooms in the house, so the family members can cheer one another on. Houzz users loved how this incredible court can double as a workout room. Complete restructure of this lower level. What was once a theater in this space I now transformed into a basketball court. It turned out to be the ideal space for a basketball court since the space had a awkward 6 ft drop in the old theater ....John Carlson Photography. Large contemporary indoor sport court in Detroit with brown walls and light hardwood floors
Like many construction projects, the costs to build a basketball court with VersaCourt court tile will vary depending on a number of elements including its size, excavation requirements, type of base and quantity and quality of its accessories. Here are some of the main components. While budget or space limitations may dictate the size of court you can build, it is important to keep in mind that plastic court tile courts can expand and contract by 2-3 inches and that it is nice for players to have some space beyond the edge of the courts.
Basketball Courts. Indoor Basketball Courts. Sport Court's indoor basketball court systems provide a safe, high-performance basketball surface that reduces shock, delivers excellent traction and ball response, and can be customized with team colors and logos. Our high-performance basketball court flooring is used all over the world for recreation as well as competition. Sport Court basketball surfaces are the official playing surface of the professional Japanese Basketball league as well as the NBA Jam Session during the NBA All-Star Weekend.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Depending on what you want to build. A indoor basketball court or outdoor court. (indoor)$100,000 or less (outdoor)$20,000 or less. How much would a 3000 square foot building cost? Costs vary widely, depending on the level of quality, finish,  location, etc. Costs could range from e.g. $90/sq ft at the low  end, to $500/sq ft (or more) at the high end.
To build a food court in a school would depend on the restaurants you want to put in it. the overall cost would be around $250,000 or more. How much would a 3000 square foot building cost? Costs vary widely, depending on the level of quality, finish,  location, etc. Costs could range from e.g. $90/sq ft at the low  end, to $500/sq ft (or more) at the high end.
Depending on what you want to build. A indoor basketball court or outdoor court. (indoor)$100,000 or less (outdoor)$20,000 or less. Indoor pools can be a great way to go in the long run. There can be less worry of leaves in the pool, little or no bug and a temperature controlled environment. The price to i … nstall indoor pools depending size and preferences ranges from $20,000 to $100,000 which does not include the price of the pool.