SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. The key to reducing fat above the belly button is to strength train the entire abdominals and obliques targeting the upper abs and to do cardio to reduce excess fat. Strength Training. Crunches and their variations give a highly effective abdominal workout. To do a standard crunch, lie on your back with your knees bent and feet flat on the ground. Place your hands at either side of your neck, lightly touching.
Ab Pullins. The exercise works the muscles below your belly button and the upper abs and obliques. Begin in a pushup position with your shins resting on a large exercise ball. Your hands should be shoulder-width apart with legs together. Double Toe Tap. The double toe tap effectively targets the fat under your belly button, working mainly the transverse abdominis muscle. Lie face up on the floor with your knees bent and your arms extended along your sides. Lift your legs so your hips are bent to 90 degrees and your shins are parallel with the floor.
What kind of specific exercises can be used to get rid of that? I already do lots and lots of sit-ups/crunches (both with my legs in the air and on the ground) but I... show more I don't really have a problem getting my lower stomach into shape, but I can't lose the fat from the section right above my belly button. You need to eat 5-6 small meals a day. Eat some protein with each meal! Cut out all refined sugar!!! Then exercise regularly 4-5 days a week. Do both cardio and lifting. But on days that you do both. Do lifting before your cardio and you will maximize your fat burn.
Variations of the crunch workout different parts of the abdominal muscles, but any toned muscle you build above the belly button will not be visible if you do not lose any layers of fat. Strength Training. Crunches and their variations give a highly effective abdominal workout. To do a standard crunch, lie on your back with your knees bent and feet flat on the ground. Place your hands at either side of your neck, lightly touching.
But I definitely don't think you should be considering that. So ultimately, it looks like you're just unlucky, genetically, and with your body, the tummy is just the last part of your body to lose fat. All you can do is continue to lose fat, and eventually it will leave from there, too. I still have the two rolls when sitting, but that doesn't bother me as much as the fat that stays when I stand up. I have this annoying little pudge right over my belly button, and I want to get rid of it VERY badly! I just can't think of what do to get rid of it!
Variations On The Crunch. To target your strength training on your upper abdomen add variations of the standard crunch, such as the bicycle crunch, side crunch, reverse crunch and double crunch. This will spread the workout to focus on your obliques along the sides of your stomach and the upper abdominal area. Strength Training. Crunches and their variations give a highly effective abdominal workout. To do a standard crunch, lie on your back with your knees bent and feet flat on the ground. Place your hands at either side of your neck, lightly touching.