Jojoba oil is extracted from seeds of the jojoba plant, scientifically known as Simmondsia chinensis, which are indigenous to southern United States and northern Mexico. The pure version of the jojoba oil has a bright, golden color whereas the processed version is clear and transparent.
1 Jojoba oil is chemically similar to the sebum in human skin, and the oil can dissolve sebum and carry ingredients deep into the skin. 2  Many products that use jojoba oil as a carrier, however, carry harmful
Jojoba oil and wax are produced from the seeds and used for medicine. Jojoba is applied directly to the skin for acne, psoriasis, sunburn, and chapped skin. It is also used topically to encourage the regrowth of hair in people who are balding.
Glass vial containing jojoba oil. Jojoba oil /həˈhoʊbə/ is the liquid produced in the seed of the Simmondsia chinensis (Jojoba) plant, a shrub, which is native to southern Arizona, southern California, and northwestern Mexico. The oil makes up approximately 50% of the jojoba seed by weight.
Jojoba oil /həˈhoʊbə/ is the liquid produced in the seed of the Simmondsia chinensis (Jojoba) plant, a shrub, which is native to southern Arizona, southern California, and northwestern Mexico. The oil makes up approximately 50% of the jojoba seed by weight.
1 Egyptian jojoba oil tends to have more of the healing waxes than jojoba oil made from nuts of plants grown in Argentina or the USA. 2  Jojoba oil is chemically similar to the sebum in human skin, and the oil can dissolve sebum and carry ingredients deep into the skin.
Jojoba oil is actually not an oil, but a liquid wax. It’s a melted type of vegetable wax and is found in the seeds/nuts of jojoba plant, which is an evergreen woody shrub plant that grows in hot areas, such as desert areas of California, Arizona and Mexico.
Similar to coconut oil, you can use jojoba as your daily face wash. Apply a few drops onto dry skin, let it set, and then simply rinse your face with water. This process will clear away all the impurities that the oil extracts from the surface of your face and neck.
Jojoba oil is actually a mixture of long chain monounsaturated liquid wax esters. They are structurally different from triglycerides, which are what most of the other seed oils are made of. Technically speaking, it isn’t really an oil after all.