Serratia Marcescens is a particularly deadly bacteria, especially among drug abusers and addicts. In heroin addicts, the bacteria may cause endocarditis, which is inflammation of the heart wall linings, with symptoms including abnormal urine color, chills, excessive sweating, fatigue, fever, and joint pain. Serratia Marcescens is also commonly found in respiratory tract infection. Here it can occur after some form of instrumentation associated with a hospital or doctor visit like ventilation or bronchoscopy. It is most common in patients with COPD – chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Serratia Marcescens symptoms are very similar regardless of what disease the bacterium causes. Some common diseases include Serratia Sepsis, Serratia plymuthica, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia rubidaea, Serratia odorifera, and Serratia fonticola. Serratia Marcescens is also commonly found in respiratory tract infection. Here it can occur after some form of instrumentation associated with a hospital or doctor visit like ventilation or bronchoscopy. It is most common in patients with COPD – chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Serratia marcescens accounts for only 1-2% of the nosocomial infections which are mostly confined to the respiratory tract, the urinary tract, surgical wounds and soft tissues. Meningitis, which is caused by Serratia marcescens, has been reported from the paediatrics wards. Discussion and Conclusion: An outbreak of the Serratia marcescens infection in the ICU was traced to the extrinsic contamination of the soap dispenser in the ICU, as after the removal of the dispenser, no further case occurred.
Abstract. Background: In November 2011, 6 patients who were in the ICU of the Sri Guru Ram Dass Institute of Medical Sciences and Research acquired an infection which was caused by Serratia marcescens. We investigated the cause of the increase in frequency of the isolation of Serratia marcesens from hospitalized patients. Discussion and Conclusion: An outbreak of the Serratia marcescens infection in the ICU was traced to the extrinsic contamination of the soap dispenser in the ICU, as after the removal of the dispenser, no further case occurred.
Serratia marcescens is the primary pathogenic species of Serratia. Rare reports have described disease resulting from infection with Serratia plymuthica, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia rubidaea, Serratia odorifera, and Serratia fonticola. Only since the 1960s has S marcescens been recognized as an opportunistic pathogen in humans. Derivatives of prodigiosin have recently been found to have immunosuppressive properties and antitumor activity in vivo and are also currently being considered as a candidate treatment for Chagas disease.
Currently Serratia is the seventh most common cause of pneumonia with an incidence of 4.1% in the US, 3.2% in Europe and 2.4% in Latin America (51), and the tenth most common cause of bloodstream infection with an incidence of 2.0% amongst hospitalized patients (2). Of all Serratia species, S. marcescens is the most common clinical isolate and the most important human pathogen. S. marcescens is credited with a long fanatical history dating back to antiquity, when, because of its ability to produce a red pigment it was described as having ‘masqueraded’ as blood (36).
Serratia marcescens Kayla Buchholz Serratia marcescens is a Gram negative, bacillus shaped bacteria that belongs to the family Enterobacteriaceae. In 1819, Bartolomeo Bizio, an Italian pharmacist from Padua, discovered S. marcescens. Bizio identified the bacterium as the cause of the miraculous bloody discoloration of cornmeal mush, or polenta.
S. marcescens is implicated in a wide range of serious infections including pneumonia (51), lower respiratory tract infection (112), urinary tract infection (53), bloodstream infection, wound infection and meningitis (72, 74). Of all Serratia species, S. marcescens is the most common clinical isolate and the most important human pathogen. S. marcescens is credited with a long fanatical history dating back to antiquity, when, because of its ability to produce a red pigment it was described as having ‘masqueraded’ as blood (36).
While S. marcescens is a rare cause of community-acquired infections, it has emerged as an important nosocomial healthcare-associated pathogen and a frequent source of outbreaks of hospital infection (72), in both adult (122) and paediatric patients (115). Of all Serratia species, S. marcescens is the most common clinical isolate and the most important human pathogen. S. marcescens is credited with a long fanatical history dating back to antiquity, when, because of its ability to produce a red pigment it was described as having ‘masqueraded’ as blood (36).
S. marcescens may also be found in environments such as dirt, supposedly sterile places, and the subgingival biofilm of teeth. Due to this, and because S. marcescens produces a reddish-orange tripyrrole pigment called prodigiosin, it may cause staining of the teeth. The biochemical pathway for the production of prodigiosin by S. marcescens is unknown except for the final two steps. Since 1950, S. marcescens has steadily increased as a cause of human infection, with many strains resistant to multiple antibiotics. The first indications of problems with the influenza vaccine produced by Chiron Corporation in 2004 involved S. marcescens contamination.