Not all body fat is bad. While too much body fat (particularly visceral fat) is harmful, we all need some fat for good health. That's why LiveLighter talks about achieving and maintaining a healthy weight, rather than focussing on weight loss. Being underweight also carries serious health risks. Fat tissue is now thought of as an endocrine organ, which means it releases chemicals into the body. There is a pretty clear link between the amount of fat a person has and the levels of these chemicals in the body.
To avoid acute poisoning, your body removes the toxins from your bloodstream and stores them in your body fat. As the burden of toxins increases, it causes the body’s defence systems to makes more and more fat cells to store them (2-4). Without any change in food intake, you grow fat as a goose. Fat is not only unattractive, it also houses harmful toxins. By Michael Colgan, Ph.D. From the annual reports of the American Lung Association, the North American urban environment is now the most toxic it’s been in history, puffing clouds of toxins more deadly than even during the Industrial Revolution (1).
Visceral fat is known to cause inflammation in the colon and the artery walls, and is a major cause of heart disease, diabetes and some types of cancer. Research even suggests that visceral fat affects mood by increasing production of the stress hormone, cortisol, and reducing levels of feel-good endorphins. Scientists don't know exactly what causes people to lay down visceral fat, although it has been linked to a high-fat diet. But they do know it behaves differently from the largely benign fat that lies just below the skin (the sort you can pinch between your fingers). Visceral fat is dangerously toxic.
Belly fat (or omentum fat) is particularly harmful because it is so close to your solid organs, and thus is their best energy source. Omentum fat is linked to other health risks, such as high LDL cholesterol (bad cholesterol). 
1 Exercise more. 2  As stored fat is mobilized for energy, your belly will be the first to shrink. 3  According to American College of Sports Medicine guidelines, a minimum of four hours of moderately intense physical activity per week is necessary for clinically significant weight loss. 
The link between the way body fat is distributed and the risk of disease was first suggested in the 1950s, when it was seen that people with upper-body (abdomen) fat were more likely to develop type 2 diabetes and heart disease when compared to people with fat stored in the lower body (hips). Fat tissue is now thought of as an endocrine organ, which means it releases chemicals into the body. There is a pretty clear link between the amount of fat a person has and the levels of these chemicals in the body.
Take Out The Trash. While it's true that we live in a toxic world, it's important to remember that there is a lot you can do to enhance your body's natural ability to detox. The body has four main exit routes for toxins: pee, poop, perspiration and pranayama (Sanskrit for breath). I call these the quadruple P.. 
What these scans reveal is the astonishing amount of visceral fat David has shed. 'Along with killing you, visceral fat, it seems, can make you feel low.'. Visceral fat is the internal fatty tissue that wraps itself around the heart, liver, kidneys and pancreas, and streaks through muscles. Scientists don't know exactly what causes people to lay down visceral fat, although it has been linked to a high-fat diet. But they do know it behaves differently from the largely benign fat that lies just below the skin (the sort you can pinch between your fingers). Visceral fat is dangerously toxic. As Dr David Haslam, clinical director of the National Obesity Forum, explains: 'Visceral fat may seem to be an inert lump of lard, but it's actually highly active and constantly pumping poisons into the bloodstream.'
Pin It. (NaturalNews) A Superfund site is an area designated by the U.S. EPA for clean up due to dumping or discharge of toxic waste that could be extremely injurious to human health. There is no better analogy for the toxic dumping ground in the body known as belly fat. If you have excessive abdominal girth, a holistic approach must be taken to permanently rid yourself of the toxic beast. Omega 3s: This is a fat that actually helps you burn fat. Omega 3s increase mitochondrial activity in the cells, essentially turning up the heat. The result is increased fat burning.