In addition to the charges for a CT scan and a MRI, the radiologist who reads the scans will also charge for their services. Medicare part B should pay 80% of the medicare approved amount. The med supp should pay the balance of the 20%. The MRI is less expensive, averaging around $800 - $1000 while the CAT scan can be over $6000. Medicare will pay 80% of the charges.
Best Answer: If she is inpatient, medicare should cover 100% under part A. If she's outpatient, medicare will pay 80% under part B. If she has a medicare supplement, it should cover the 20% of the amount approved by medicare. The MRI is less expensive, averaging around $800 - $1000 while the CAT scan can be over $6000. Medicare will pay 80% of the charges.
20% of the Medicare-approved amount for the doctor or other health care provider’s services, and the Part B deductible applies. In a hospital outpatient setting, you also pay the hospital a copayment. Medicare-approved amount for visits to a doctor or other health care provider. The Part B deductible applies. If you get treatment services in a hospital outpatient clinic or hospital outpatient department, you may have to pay an additional copayment or coinsurance amount to the hospital.
All providers of Part A services must be certified by Medicare. If you go to a provider who is not Medicare certified, Medicare will not pay for the service. All Medicare certified providers accept Medicare and your share of costs as full payment. Hospice Care. Hospice care is for people with a terminal illness. It covers: 1  Doctors' services. 2  Nursing care.
Medicare paid for roughly 70,000 of the heart scans in 2006, according to the agency, at a cost of $40 million to $50 million. For people not yet eligible for Medicare, thousands of other such scans were paid for by commercial insurers or from patients’ own pockets, at prices sometimes close to $1,000. As many as 1,500 centers around the country are estimated to be offering the scans, with some centers advertising their services.
Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) covers this test, which helps to see if you're at risk to broken bones, once every 24 months (more often if medically necessary) for people who meet the criteria below. Medicare only covers this test when it's ordered by a doctor or other qualified provider. 
For the above reasons, CMS concludes that the evidence supports the use of FDG PET as reasonable and necessary in the management of recurrent primary brain tumors, and thus is appropriate for Medicare coverage under § 1862(a)(1)(A). All patients fasted for at least four hours preceding the FDG PET-CT scan and had glucose levels less than 140 mg/dL. 45-60 minutes after intravenous injection of a 370 MBq (10 mCi) dose, FDG PET-CT scans were performed.
Report Abuse. Yes, Medicare will cover both. The MRI is less expensive, averaging around $800 - $1000 while the CAT scan can be over $6000. Medicare will pay 80% of the charges.