1 Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). 2  Place fillets in aluminum foil, cover with marinade, and seal. 3  Place sealed salmon in the glass dish, and bake 35 to 45 minutes, until easily flaked with a fork. 
I bake salmon all the time. I line my pan with aluminum foil, place the salmon fillet in the pan, put on my favorite seasonings/toppings, seal it up, and bake it in a preheated 400º oven. If the topping is thick, like a mayonnaise topping with onion powder and dill sprinkled over it, my 8 oz piece of salmon takes about 30 minutes to cook. 
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it.
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. 
Baking salmon in a low-temperature oven slowly melts the fat between the flesh and leaves the fillets incredibly moist and tender. Lemon and thyme, a classic Mediterranean combination, add another layer of flavor without sacrificing this dish's elegant simplicity. 1  1 1/2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided. 1 Preheat oven to 275°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  Brush with 1/2 tablespoon oil. 3  Place salmon fillets, skin side down, on prepared baking sheet. 4  Mix remaining oil, thyme, and lemon zest in a small bowl. 5  Spread thyme mixture over salmon fillets, dividing equally. 6  Season with salt and pepper.
1 Set heat to 425 convection-bake (must use a hot oven). 2  Bake the salmon for 20 minutes or until cooked (do not turn the salmon, the cooking time will vary depending on the size of your fillets). 3  Serve the cooked fillets with lemon wedges. 
Directions. Preheat oven to 475 degrees. Place butter on a rimmed baking sheet and season with salt and pepper. Place sheet in oven until butter melts, about 1 minute. Carefully remove sheet from oven and place salmon on top of butter, skin side down; season with salt and pepper. Return sheet to oven. Roast until salmon is just cooked through, 8 to 12 minutes, checking frequently. It will flake easily when done. Sprinkle with parsley and serve
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired