If you fail to appear for court proceedings regarding a misdemeanor charge, you may be charged with misdemeanor failure to appear. With any misdemeanor charges, you could face up to one year in jail for this charge, along with fines and potentially a suspended license. If you fail to appear for court proceedings related to a felony criminal charge, you will be charged with this additional felony. The punishment for this charge is quite severe at up to one year in state prison and fines up to $5,000.
A failure to appear can involve a traffic court appointment, jury services, a civil case, or a criminal case. Failure to appear in traffic court is a violation of the written promise to appear in court on a given day at a specific time. One can be penalized for a failure to appear even if they are found not guilty of the arrest or citation charge or even if the case is dismissed. Failure to appear may be considered a misdemeanor offense in some jurisdictions. Failure to appear in a civil case has slightly different consequences than those in other failure to appear cases. If the plaintiff (the one who filed the lawsuit) fails to appear in court as required, the case may be dismissed, thereby forfeiting the chance to pursue the legal case in the future.
ALEXANDRIA VIRGINIA CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY RESULT: Misdemeanor charge, bench warrant issued, for Failure to Appear on a Misdemeanor charge was DISMISSED based on defense counsel argument. City of Alexandria Juvenile and Domestic Relations District Court at 520 King Street, Alexandria Virginia 22314. ยง 19.2-128. Penalties for failure to appear. 
Notification. Once a judge dismisses a charge for failure to appear, a written record of the court's order is signed by the judge and is filed along with the other court records relevant to the case. Once the judge signs the order, a written copy of the court order is typically provided to the defendant. When charges for failure to appear are issued in conjunction with other criminal charges, it is possible for the judge to dismiss the charges for failure to appear without dismissing the other charges relating
Effect on Criminal Record. When a judge dismisses criminal charges against a defendant for failure to appear, the defendant may mistakenly believe that the incident will no longer appear on his permanent criminal record. This is not the case. When charges for failure to appear are issued in conjunction with other criminal charges, it is possible for the judge to dismiss the charges for failure to appear without dismissing the other charges relating to the case.
If you skip a court date for a misdemeanor charge, your failure to appear charge will be considered a misdemeanor. Misdemeanor failure to appear is punishable by a maximum of one year in jail and up to $2,500 in fines. A Virginia felony failure to appear charge may result in $2,500 in fines and one to five years in jail. Virginia Failure to Appear Attorney. When someone agrees or is summoned to appear in court at a specified time, he or she must be certain to honor that obligation. In Virginia, Failure to Appear (FTA) can result in a judge issuing a bench warrant for the arrest of the individual who missed a court date.
If the defendant or respondent in a civil case commits a failure to appear violation, the court may automatically judge in favor of the plaintiff in the absence of a trial. This is called a default judgment and the decisions rendered in this way are legally binding to all parties. Failure to appear in a civil case has slightly different consequences than those in other failure to appear cases. If the plaintiff (the one who filed the lawsuit) fails to appear in court as required, the case may be dismissed, thereby forfeiting the chance to pursue the legal case in the future.
If you have trouble getting your license renewed because of a Failure to Appear suspension or Failure to Appear hold in New Jersey, contact a New Jersey license suspension attorney to help you rectify the situation without the hassle of traveling back and forth to court. 
In cases where failure to appear is the only charge issued against a defendant and that charge is dropped, it is possible to have the record relating to this charge removed after a period of time but only through the issuance of a court order called an order of expungement. When charges for failure to appear are issued in conjunction with other criminal charges, it is possible for the judge to dismiss the charges for failure to appear without dismissing the other charges relating to the case.