Venus in Color. The bluish hue of Venus is an effect of the colorization technique used to enhance subtle contrasts in cloud patterns and indicates that this image was taken through a violet filter. Features in the sulfuric acid clouds near the top of the planet's atmosphere are most prominent in violet and ultraviolet light
Here we tried to reproduce the global surface color of Venus as seen by the human eye based on radar imagery from the Magellan spacecraft and surface images by the Venera missions. There are no color global images of the surface of Venus due to its thick atmospheric coverage and colorized radar images are used instead. 
Some of the bright orange and yellow pictures that you see of Venus are actually false color images. They were taken in a different wavelength of light, such as ultraviolet, and then artificially colored on computer to reveal features. But seen with your own eyes, the color of Venus is just bright white and featureless. Most pictures you have seen of Venus are in false color. This means that some spacecraft took photos of Venus using a different wavelength of light to show features in its atmosphere.
Here’s a question: what color is Venus? With the unaided eye, Venus just looks like a very bright star in the sky. But spacecraft have sent back images of the cloud tops of Venus, and some have even returned images from the surface of Venus. You would see a dim landscape, like you might see at twilight. The surface of the planet is littered with brownish-red volcanic rocks. The bright red color you see in the Soviet Venera images of Venus have been brightened to show more surface detail.
Planets have the colors that they have because of what they are made of and how their surfaces and/or atmospheres reflect and absorb sunlight. Venus is entirely covered with a thick carbon dioxide atmosphere and sulphuric acid clouds which give it a light yellowish appearance. 
Venus is the second planet from the Sun, orbiting it every 224.7 Earth days. It has no natural satellite. It is named after the Roman goddess of love and beauty. After the Moon, it is the brightest natural object in the night sky, reaching an apparent magnitude of −4.6, bright enough to cast shadows. With a mean surface temperature of 735 K (462 °C; 863 °F), Venus is by far the hottest planet in the Solar System, even though Mercury is closer to the Sun. Venus is shrouded by an opaque layer of highly reflective clouds of sulfuric acid, preventing its surface from being seen from space in visible light.
Here’s an article about the color of Mercury, and here’s an article about the color of Pluto. If you’d like more info on Venus, check out Hubblesite’s News Releases about Venus, and here’s a link to NASA’s Solar System Exploration Guide on Venus. We’ve also recorded an entire episode of Astronomy Cast all about Venus. You would see a dim landscape, like you might see at twilight. The surface of the planet is littered with brownish-red volcanic rocks. The bright red color you see in the Soviet Venera images of Venus have been brightened to show more surface detail.
The atmospheric pressure at the planet's surface is 92 times that of Earth's. With a mean surface temperature of 735 K (462 °C; 863 °F), Venus is by far the hottest planet in the Solar System, even though Mercury is closer to the Sun. Venus is shrouded by an opaque layer of highly reflective clouds of sulfuric acid, preventing its surface from being seen from space in visible light.
Mercury: grey. Venus: yellowish-white. Earth: light blue with white clouds; oceans and light scattered by the atmosphere make Earth prevailingly blue. Mars: red-orange. Jupiter: has orange and white bands; the white bands are colored by ammonia clouds, while the orange comes from ammonium hydrosulfide clouds. Saturn: pale yellow; ammonia haze covers the whole planet and obscures redder clouds below. Uranus: light blue; the color comes from methane clouds.
Venus is a terrestrial planet and is sometimes called Earth's sister planet because of their similar size, mass, proximity to the Sun and bulk composition. It is radically different from Earth in other respects. It has the densest atmosphere of the four terrestrial planets, consisting of more than 96% carbon dioxide. With a mean surface temperature of 735 K (462 °C; 863 °F), Venus is by far the hottest planet in the Solar System, even though Mercury is closer to the Sun. Venus is shrouded by an opaque layer of highly reflective clouds of sulfuric acid, preventing its surface from being seen from space in visible light.