The Connection Between Lupus and the Immune System. Lupus can affect most systems in the body, but as an autoimmune disease, it naturally has a significant impact on the range of cells, nerves and glands that are responsible for healthy immune function. Lupus triggers this excessive immune response, causing the body to mistakenly attack its own healthy tissue rather than foreign invaders. The result is widespread inflammation that surfaces as joint and skin pain, fatigue, fever, swollen glands, respiratory pain, and a number of threats to major organs.
In lupus, something goes wrong with your immune system, which is the part of the body that fights off viruses, bacteria, and germs (foreign invaders, like the flu). Normally our immune system produces proteins called antibodies that protect the body from these invaders. 1 In HIV or AIDS the immune system is underactive; in lupus, the immune system is overactive. 2  Lupus can range from mild to life-threatening and should always be treated by a doctor. 3  With good medical care, most people with lupus can lead a full life.
About Lupus. Lupus is an autoimmune disease that can affect various parts of the body, including the skin, joints, heart, lungs, blood, kidneys, and brain. Normally, the body's immune system makes proteins called antibodies to protect the body against viruses, bacteria, and other foreign materials. These foreign materials are called antigens. In an autoimmune disorder like lupus, the immune system cannot tell the difference between foreign substances and its own cells and tissues. The immune system then makes antibodies directed against itself.
Lupus is one of many disorders of the immune system known as autoimmune diseases. In autoimmune diseases, the immune system turns against parts of the body it is designed to protect. This leads to inflammation and damage to various body tissues. Haga clic aqui aquí para obtener Informacion Información*. En espanol español lupus is one of many disorders of the immune system known. As autoimmune diseases, in autoimmune diseases the immune system turns against parts of the body it is. Designed to protect this leads to inflammation and damage to.
Immune System. The immune system is an elaborate network of cells, tissues, and organs that helps to protect the body from invaders (bacteria, viruses, fungal infections, and parasites). 
Lupus, also known as systemic lupus erythematosus, is an autoimmune disease that can affect almost any part of the body, especially the skin, blood, joints, kidneys, heart, lungs, and brain. Two common symptoms of lupus are a butterfly-shaped rash on the face and extreme sensitivity to sunlight. Read More. Immune System. The immune system exists to ward off attacks from foreign invaders like bacteria and viruses. In people with an autoimmune disease, the system mistakenly launches a sustained attack on healthy tissue in the body. In the case of lupus, attacks cause inflammation that can occur almost anywhere.
Lupus is a chronic inflammatory disease that occurs when your body's immune system attacks your own tissues and organs. Inflammation caused by lupus can affect many different body systems — including your joints, skin, kidneys, blood cells, brain, heart and lungs. 
Understanding Lupus -- the Basics. Lupus is an autoimmune disease, which means that the immune system mistakes the body's own tissues as foreign invaders and attacks them. Some people with lupus suffer only minor inconvenience. Others suffer significant lifelong disability. 
Systemic lupus erythematosus, often abbreviated as SLE or lupus, is a systemic autoimmune disease (or autoimmune connective tissue disease) in which the body’s immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. 
In lupus, the body’s immune system does not work as it should. A healthy immune system produces proteins called antibodies and specific cells called lymphocytes that help fight and destroy viruses, bacteria, and other foreign substances that invade the body. Lupus is one of many disorders of the immune system known as autoimmune diseases. In autoimmune diseases, the immune system turns against parts of the body it is designed to protect. This leads to inflammation and damage to various body tissues.