The long-term parking closest to Tampa International Airport's terminals is at the airport itself. If you leave your car at this long-term parking garage you can walk to and from the airport, or use the airport monorail, and are guaranteed 24-hour access to your vehicle. You can park here for up to 45 days. Tampa International Airport's long-term parking garage is located adjacent to the airport terminal, just south of the short-term parking garage. The pedestrian walkway in long-term parking is on Level 2, and the monorail can be accessed from Level 5.
1 There are different parking options provided at the Tampa International Airport: Valet Parking, Short Term Garage, Long Term Garage, Economy Parking Garage and Lot, and Cell Phone Waiting Lot. 2  Valet Parking has a 24-hour drop off and pick up on Level 5 of Short Term Garage.
A1 Express (a1expressairportparking.com) has parking less than one mile from the Tampa International Airport. You are charged per 24-hour period that your car is in the covered garage, with a two-hour grace period if you return just a bit late on pick-up day.
Another $924,000 will come from increasing the cost of employee parking. The new parking rates upped the monthly parking fee for airport employees from $12 to $25 in the north lot and from $20 to $35 in the airside lots.
Tampa ranked as one of the lowest priced airports of its size. Current parking fees are $20 for a maximum daily rate in the short-term garage, long-term is $16, the economy garage is $9 and valet parking is $25.
Low Cost Tampa Airport Parking. Tampa International Airport is located approximately 6 miles from the Central Business District of Tampa, in the state of Florida, and is an important airport in the United States of America. It is recognised by its IATA code of TPA, and serves around sixteen million passengers per annum.
The plan doubles the cost of parking in either garage from $1 per 20 minutes to $2 per 20 minutes. Anyone who stays longer than an hour will have to pay for the first hour — $6 — plus $2 for every 20 minutes after that. Under the new rates, parking in the long-term garage will max out at $16 per day, an increase of $1.
Tampa International Airport is a public airport located in Hillsborough County, Florida. Serving more than 70 non-stop destinations, the airport is one of the busiest airports by passenger movements in North America.