When first performed, the SD RDTs correctly identified S. Typhi antigen in blood culture bottles from 29/30 (96.7%) patients in comparison to S. Typhi reference assays. Of the non-S. Typhi patients, four gave positive RDT results: two S. Enteritidis (a group D Salmonella) and two E. coli. We investigated whether the combination of blood culture amplification of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi with an S. Typhi antigen rapid diagnostic test (RDT) could be an accurate and inexpensive tool for the accelerated diagnosis of patients with acute typhoid in Laos.
However, this technique is extremely painful, which may outweigh its benefit. Blood, intestinal secretions (vomitus or duodenal aspirate), and stool culture results are positive for S typhi in approximately 85%-90% of patients with typhoid fever who present within the first week of onset. They decline to 20%-30% later in the disease course. In particular, stool culture may be positive for S typhi several days after ingestion of the bacteria secondary to inflammation of the intraluminal dendritic cells. Later in the illness, stool culture results are positive because of bacteria shed through the gallbladder
Although the detection of S. Typhi S. Typhi bacteremia are stool culture positive, and such RDTs are therefore not optimum for diagnosis of acute typhoid fever (3, 17, 18). Typhoid diagnosis in the tropics could be enhanced by making the identification of S. Typhi in blood cultures simpler, less expensive, and faster. We investigated whether the combination of blood culture amplification of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi with an S. Typhi antigen rapid diagnostic test (RDT) could be an accurate and inexpensive tool for the accelerated diagnosis of patients with acute typhoid in Laos.
Typhoid fever is a type of enteric fever along with paratyphoid fever. The cause is the bacterium Salmonella typhi, also known as Salmonella enterica serotype typhi, growing in the intestines and blood. Typhoid is spread by eating or drinking food or water contaminated with the feces of an infected person. Typhoid fever. Typhoid fever, also known simply as typhoid, is a symptomatic bacterial infection due to Salmonella typhi. Symptoms may vary from mild to severe and usually begin six to thirty days after exposure. Often there is a gradual onset of a high fever over several days
Salmonella infection is diagnosed through testing of a stool sample. Salmonella bacteria can be detected in stool. [5, 15] In cases of bacteremia or invasive illness, the bacteria can also be detected in the blood, urine, or on rare occasions in tissues. [5] The test consists of growing the bacteria in cultur
A nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) specific for Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi was used for the detection of the pathogen in blood, urine, and stool samples from 131 patients with clinical suspicion of typhoid fever. Salmonella typhi DNA was detected in the urine or stool of 72.9% of the patients diagnosed with typhoid fever. In our study, more urine samples (65.6%) than stool samples (39.5%) were positive for the pathogen.
Stool culture alone yields a sensitivity of less than 50%, and urine culture alone is even less sensitive. Blood, duodenal aspirate, and stool culture results are positive for S. typhi in approximately 85-90% of patients with typhoid fever within the first week of illness.
Typhi isolates from blood cultures in Pondicherry were found to be highly resistant to ciprofloxacin (MIC ≥ 4 mg/L), and the emergence of such resistant bacteria is a cause of concern. In recent years, there have been some sporadic reports of high-level ciprofloxacin resistance in Salmonella enterica [ ]. A total of 337 blood culture isolates of S. Typhi, isolated from Pondicherry, India, between January 2005 and December 2009, were investigated using phenotypic, molecular and serological methods. Of the 337 isolates, 74 (22%) were found to be multidrug resistant (MDR) and 264 (78%) nalidixic acid resistant (NAR).
Salmonella can sometimes also be isolated from blood, urine or tissue samples. Salmonella bacteria can be detected in stool. [5, 15] In cases of bacteremia or invasive illness, the bacteria can also be detected in the blood, urine, or on rare occasions in tissues. [5] The test consists of growing the bacteria in culture