Viral diseases are extremely widespread infections caused by viruses, a type of microorganism. There are many types of viruses that cause a wide variety of viral diseases. The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosi
Viral skin infections can range from mild to severe and often produce a rash. Examples of viral skin infections include: 1  Molluscum contagiosum causes small, flesh-colored bumps most often in children ages 1 to 10 years old; however, people of any age can acquire the virus. These viruses are most commonly spread by inhaling droplets containing virus particles. Examples include: 1  Rhinovirus is the virus that most often causes the common cold, but there are more than 200 different viruses that can cause colds.
In this article. Bacterial and viral infections have many things in common. Both types of infections are caused by microbes -- bacteria and viruses, respectively -- and spread by things such as: 1  Coughing and sneezing. 2  Contact with infected people, especially through kissing and sex. 3  Contact with contaminated surfaces, food, and water.
Types of viral infections. Probably the most common viral infections are. Respiratory infections: Infections of the nose, throat, upper airways, and lungs. The most common respiratory infections are upper respiratory infections, which include sore throat, sinusitis, and the common cold. For example, common cold viruses infect only cells of the upper respiratory tract. Additionally, most viruses infect only a few species of plants or animals. Some infect only people. Many viruses commonly infect infants and children (see Viral Infections in Infants and Children).
Other Viral Infections. Viruses are abundant in the world and cause many other infections ranging from mild to life-threatening. 1  Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a type of herpes virus that’s associated with fever, fatigue, swollen lymph nodes, and an enlarged spleen. These viruses are most commonly spread by inhaling droplets containing virus particles. Examples include: 1  Rhinovirus is the virus that most often causes the common cold, but there are more than 200 different viruses that can cause colds.
Respiratory viral infections affect the lungs, nose, and throat. These viruses are most commonly spread by inhaling droplets containing virus particles. Examples include: 1  Rhinovirus is the virus that most often causes the common cold, but there are more than 200 different viruses that can cause colds. 2  Cold symptoms like coughing, sneezing, mild headache, and sore throat typically last for up to 2 weeks
Other viral respiratory infections include influenza and pneumonia. In small children, viruses also commonly cause croup (which is inflammation of the upper and lower airways, called laryngotracheobronchitis) or lower airways (bronchiolitis—see Bronchiolitis). For example, common cold viruses infect only cells of the upper respiratory tract. Additionally, most viruses infect only a few species of plants or animals. Some infect only people. Many viruses commonly infect infants and children (see Viral Infections in Infants and Children).
The flu differs in several ways from the common cold. Symptoms of the flu include body chills, fever, headache, muscle ache and sore throat. Unlike many other viral respiratory infections, the flu can cause severe illness and life-threatening complications in many people. The common cold is a frequently occurring viral infection and usually includes symptoms such as sneezing, stuffy nose, sore throat and coughing. Although colds are a minor infection of the nose and throat, a cold can last from two days to two weeks.
Types of Viral Infections. Viruses can affect any part of the body or body system, and can cause infections such as the common cold, flu, gastroenteritis, chicken pox or herpes. The most common type of viral infections involves the respiratory tract. The common cold is a frequently occurring viral infection and usually includes symptoms such as sneezing, stuffy nose, sore throat and coughing. Although colds are a minor infection of the nose and throat, a cold can last from two days to two weeks.
Bacterial diseases include any type of illness caused by bacteria. Bacteria are a type of microorganism, which are tiny forms of life that can only be seen with a microscope. Other types of microorganisms include viruses, some fungi, and some parasites. 