In which Jon Dittert, a drum instructor and former 5-Star Drum Shop employee at the Drum Center of Lexington, talks about how often, or rather WHEN, to change your drum heads. Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/jondittert. Other Channel: http://www.youtube.com/user/jonditter...
The top snare should slide off to the left or right. You may need to loosen the tension a bit more.With the head and snare off, give your drum a good inspection and cleaning. Look for signs of wear and rust.
As with all things musical how often you replace your drumheads is a matter of preference. Some players love old beat-up heads on their drums. They like the worn-in feel and sound. Other players like the fresh sound of new skins.
I usually change the snare bottom heads about every fifth batter head. You may experience a different replacement cycle. However, the bottom heads do wear out from the constant snare vibrations and you would be amazed at just how much a dead snare bottom head absolutely kills your snare drum’s sound.
I suggest you change the heads on the bottom of your toms and snare once a year. Some players never change those heads, but a new set will help liven up your sound. For me, kick drum heads last a long time and only need changing once the beater really starts wearing out the center of the head.
Snare Drum Heads. Snare drum heads usually need to be changed twice as often as tom heads. Since most drummers play the snare harder and more often then the toms, this makes sense. A good way to tell if your snare head needs replacing is by pressing down in the middle of the snare.
While there are dozens of head producing companies, be sure to get a snare head. Any other kind of head will cause the snare to not sound as it should. 1  Most heads have size and information (snare, tom, timpani head etc.) on the back of the package.
You may want to replace your toms or snare heads more often, again depending on how much you’re playing. For a quick check, closely examine your snare drum batter head.