Dried fruits, such as dates, figs, prunes, apricots, and raisins, are another great source of dietary fiber that acts as a constipation remedy. “Prunes, in particular, are great because they not only are high in fiber, but also contain sorbitol, which is a natural laxative,” Prather says.
To Prevent Constipation: Certain foods and drinks, and the proper amount of exercise can help alleviate the symptoms of constipation. Foods and drinks: 1  Eat high-fiber foods such as raisins, raw vegetables, salads, bran cereals, whole-grain bread and fresh fruit. 2  Eat prunes or figs.
1 Eat high-fiber foods such as raisins, raw vegetables, salads, bran cereals, whole-grain bread and fresh fruit. 2  Eat prunes or figs. 3  Eat oatmeal, applesauce, legumes (dried beans) and barley, to soften the stool.
Add more fiber-filled foods to your diet and be sure to drink plenty of fluids to help the fiber flow properly through your digestive tract. 1  Pick Berries for a Sweet Treat For a sweet constipation remedy, take your pick of luscious raspberries, blackberries, and strawberries.
For most people, a diet high in fiber and fluids would solve the problem and would be sufficient for constipation prevention. All fruits, vegetables, legumes and whole-grain foods contain healthful amounts of fiber and can all be considered excellent foods for constipation.
Most often, the cause is simply a lack of fiber in the diet, which you can resolve easily by eating more high-fiber foods, particularly foods high in insoluble fiber, which your body cannot digest. Insoluble fiber, or roughage, helps move waste products through the intestinal tract and out of the body.
1 Water-increasing the fiber in your diet without increasing the amount of water you drink can cause even more constipation. 2  Six to eight glasses of water are usually enough to prevent hard stools. 3  Legumes, peas, beans and nuts-they're full of fiber plus they contain magnesium, which is a superb laxative.
Simple changes can improve your diet and help relieve constipation: 1  Add veggies. 2  You don't have to count grams of fiber to get the amount you need. 3  Instead, aim to eat 2 cups of fruit and 2 1/2 cups of vegetables every day.