Octopuses live in dens on the sea floor, while squids live in the open oceans. Octopuses use their eight sucker-lined arms to capture their prey and move about on the ocean floor. Squids have eight arms lined with suckers and two specialized tentacles that they use to reach out and capture prey. 
Octopuses have a relatively short life expectancy, with some species living for as little as six months. Larger species, such as the giant pacific octopus, may live for up to five years under suitable circumstances. An octopus trails its eight arms behind it as it swims. All octopuses are venomous, but only one group, the blue-ringed octopus, is known to be deadly to humans. Around 300 species are recognized, which is over one-third of the total number of known cephalopod species.
The blue-ringed octopuses (genus Hapalochlaena) are three (or perhaps four) octopus species that live in tide pools and coral reefs in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, from Japan to Australia. Their primary habitat is around southern New South Wales, South Australia, and northern Western Australia. 
An octopus (/ˈɒktəpʊs/ or /ˈɒktəpəs/ ; plural: octopuses, octopi, or octopodes; see below) is a cephalopod mollusc of the order Octopoda. It has two eyes and four pairs of arms and, like other cephalopods, it is bilaterally symmetric. An octopus has a beak, with its mouth at the center point of the arms. An octopus trails its eight arms behind it as it swims. All octopuses are venomous, but only one group, the blue-ringed octopus, is known to be deadly to humans. Around 300 species are recognized, which is over one-third of the total number of known cephalopod species.
Giant Pacific octopuses have huge, bulbous heads and are generally reddish-brown in color. Like the other members of the octopus family, though, they use special pigment cells in their skin to change colors and textures, and can blend in with even the most intricately patterned corals, plants, and rocks. The appendages of octopuses are called arms, not tentacles. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The giant Pacific octopus grows bigger and lives longer than any other octopus species. The size record is held by a specimen that was 30 feet (9.1 meters) across and weighed more than 600 pounds (272 kilograms). Averages are more like 16 feet (5 meters) and 110 lbs (50 kilograms)
While the octopus can and does eat fish (even small sharks), it feeds mainly on crabs (as well as other shelled inverts) and needs that short crushing beak. Squid beak (left) is for tearing. Octopus beak (right) is for crushing. Look like parrot beaks. Octopus eye facts. 1  They have 2 eyes with excellent vision. 
Confidence votes 80.2K. They live in the Oceans, different species of Octopus live in diferent parts of the oceans, some live in the deep oceans, some live in the sandy shallows and other live among rocks or reefs. The octopus lives in all the worlds seas and in varying temperatures, they are very adept at finding places to live, small holes and caves are common homes for them but … man's discarded garbage like old pots beer cans or buckets etc. will do as well.
The greater blue-ringed octopus is one of several species of blue-ringed octopuses. All are thought to be venomous and for their size, they are the most deadly of all cephalopods. It is said that the venom of this octopus could kill 26 adults in just a few minutes. There is no antivenin for treatment. 