Harris Teeter Supermarkets, Inc. is an American supermarket chain based in Matthews, North Carolina, just outside Charlotte. As of June 2015, the chain operates 235 stores in seven states: North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Georgia, Florida, Maryland, Delaware, and the District of Columbia. Based on 2005 revenue, Harris Teeter is the ninety-third largest retailer in the United States. On July 9, 2013, Harris Teeter announced that it was being acquired by The Kroger Company. The merger closed on January 28, 2014, though Harris Teeter retained its name, brand and headquarters in Matthews
The Kroger Company is an American retailer founded by Bernard Kroger in 1883 in Cincinnati, Ohio. In February 2006, Kroger announced plans for two new Kroger Marketplace stores to open by the end of the summer in Cincinnati suburbs Lebanon and Liberty Township. The store in Liberty Township opened in July 2006.
Kroger to buy Harris Teeter chain in $2.4B deal. Grocery store chain Kroger said Tuesday that it is buying Harris Teeter Supermarkets in a $2.4 billion deal. The price is a premium of 33.7% to the Harris Teeter closing share price on January 18, 2013. Kroger buys Harris Teeter grocery chain. Kroger, second in retail sales in the U.S., is buying Harris Teeter Supermarkets. A look at the states with Kroger stores and Harris Teeter stores and their place among the top retailers and wholesalers.
Kroger said Tuesday it's buying Harris Teeter Supermarkets in a $2.4 billion deal, which will increase by three the number of states in which it operates to 34. Kroger buys Harris Teeter grocery chain. Kroger, second in retail sales in the U.S., is buying Harris Teeter Supermarkets. A look at the states with Kroger stores and Harris Teeter stores and their place among the top retailers and wholesalers.
Harris Teeter’s annual sales in 2012 were only $4.5 billion, or less than 5 percent of Kroger’s. The upscale regional grocer has 212 stores concentrated in the Carolinas and in the Washington, D.C., region that will expand Kroger’s national footprint into areas with growth potential and affluent shoppers. In what may strike shoppers as an odd union, Kroger, the nation’s second-largest retailer, announced on Tuesday that it would buy Harris Teeter, an upscale grocer known for fresh foods and produce, in a deal valued at $2.5 billion.
In 1983, The Kroger Company acquired Dillon Companies grocery chain in Kansas along with its subsidiaries, King Soopers, City Market, Fry's, Gerbes, and the convenience store chain Kwik Shop. David Dillon, a fourth-generation descendant of J.S. Dillon, the founder of Dillon Companies, became the CEO of Kroger. In February 2006, Kroger announced plans for two new Kroger Marketplace stores to open by the end of the summer in Cincinnati suburbs Lebanon and Liberty Township. The store in Liberty Township opened in July 2006.
In 1883 Bernard 'Barney' Kroger invested his life savings of $372 (roughly equal to $9,400 as of 2014) to open a grocery store in the Mount Airy neighborhood of Cincinnati. Kroger, the son of a merchant, had a simple dictum:' Be particular. In February 2006, Kroger announced plans for two new Kroger Marketplace stores to open by the end of the summer in Cincinnati suburbs Lebanon and Liberty Township. The store in Liberty Township opened in July 2006.
Kroger is paying $2.44 billion for 212 Harris Teeter stores, and intends to learn the freshness techniques for which Harris Teeter is known. 8:36 p.m. | Updated. Kroger is signing up for a bigger dose of fruits and vegetables. In what may strike shoppers as an odd union, Kroger, the nation’s second-largest retailer, announced on Tuesday that it would buy Harris Teeter, an upscale grocer known for fresh foods and produce, in a deal valued at $2.5 billion.