A molecule that contains polar bonds may or may not be polar, depending on its shape. Molecules that do not contain polar bonds are not polar unless the central atom has one or more nonbonded pairs of electrons. The general principle is that if a molecule is symmetric, its electrons will be uniformly distributed and it will be nonpolar. It’s the same idea you used to determine whether a bond was polar.
When there are no polar bonds in a molecule, there is no permanent charge difference between one part of the molecule and another, and the molecule is nonpolar. For example, the Cl2 molecule has no polar bonds because the electron charge is identical on both atoms. It is therefore a nonpolar molecule. 
Molecules can either be polar or nonpolar depending on the arrangement of bonds producing a net dipole. Water is an example of a polar molecule since it has a slight positive charge on one side and a slight negative charge on the other. The dipoles do not cancel out resulting in a net dipole. Synonym: 1  dipole.
A polar molecule is a molecule that has a mostly positive charge on one side and a mostly negative charge on the other. This charge difference allows the positive end of the molecule to attract to the negative end of another. Polar molecules sometimes form hydrogen bonds. A polar molecule cannot bond with a non-polar molecule. Because the oxygen side is negatively charged, water is an example of a 
Ionic, Polar and Non-polar Molecules. You should already know that an ion is a charged atom or molecule. The charge is due to either an excess of electrons (which gives the particle a negative charge) or too few electrons (giving the particle a positive charge). Since water is a polar molecule, other polar molecules will dissolve in water (thus polar molecules are usually hydrophilic and are lipophobic). Molecules that are not ions or are not polar are termed nonpolar.
The bond is then said to be polar. The term polar molecule can mean two things: (1) simply that there are polar bonds present in the molecule, (2) that the molecular structural arrangement of bonds and electron lone pairs gives rise to a permanent molecualr dipole moment. Report Abuse. A polar molecule has a difference in electronegativity between atoms across the entire molecule. The differently charged atoms are called dipoles. A commonly used example is water, H2O. The oxygen molecule has a high electronegativity compared to the hydrogen molecules, so it exhibits a negative dipole.
Water is a polar molecule because of the way the atoms bind in the molecule such that there are excess electrons on the Oxygen side and a lack or excess of positive charges on the Hydrogen side of the molecule. Water is a polar molecule with positive charges. on one side and negative on the other. If this is the case, the molecule is called a polar molecule, meaning that it has electrical poles. Otherwise, it is called a non-polar molecule. Whether molecules are polar or non-polar determines if they will mix to form a solution or that they don't mix well together.
Not all molecules with polar bonds are polar molecules. To be a polar molecule, the entire molecule must be a dipole – it must have slightly positive and slightly negative ends. Hydrochloric acid is a polar molecule, since it has positive and negative ends. 
Molecules can be grouped as polar or non-polar molecules. Some molecules are in between the two. The arrangement or geometry of the atoms in some molecules is such that one end of the molecule has a positive electrical charge and the other side has a negative charge. If this is the case, the molecule is called a polar molecule, meaning that it has electrical poles. Otherwise, it is called a non-polar molecule. Whether molecules are polar or non-polar determines if they will mix to form a solution or that they don't mix well together.