The secretion of calcitonin is also inhibited by the hormone somatostatin which is also released by the C-cells in the thyroid gland. What happens if I have too much calcitonin? There does not seem to be any effect on the body as a result of having too much calcitonin. It inhibits the activity of osteoclasts, which are the cells responsible for breaking down bone. 2  When bone is broken down, the calcium contained in the bone is released into the bloodstream. 3  Therefore, the inhibition of the osteoclasts by calcitonin directly reduces the amount of calcium released into the blood.
Calcitonin is a naturally occurring hormone. It helps regulate calcium levels in your body and is involved in the process of bone building. When taken by shot or nasal spray, it slows the rate of bone thinning. It also relieves pain that occurs when the bones in the spine (vertebrae) break and collapse on top of each other (spinal compression fracture).
Confidence votes 84.8K. Calcitonin slows the release of calcium from bones into bloodstream, thereby keeping blood levels of calcium to a minimum. Parathyroid hormone does the opposite. It maintains calcium levels in the blood, or helps reabsorption of calcium from bones into bloodstream. (the concentration of specific nonhormonal substances in the blood or extracellular fluid.) Calcitonin is produced by the parafollicular cells of the thyroid … gland in response to rising blood calcium levels.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Calcitonin (also known as thyrocalcitonin) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells (also known as C-cells) of the thyroid, and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body. Calcitonin has been found in fish, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its importance in other animals, as its function is usually not significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis. It belongs to the calcitonin-like protein family.
It acts to reduce blood calcium (Ca 2+), opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH). Calcitonin has been found in fish, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its importance in other animals, as its function is usually not significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis. It belongs to the calcitonin-like protein family.
Glossary. Calcitonin is a hormone known to participate in calcium and phosphorus metabolism. In mammals, the major source of calcitonin is from the parafollicular or C cells in the thyroid gland, but it is also synthesized in a wide variety of other tissues, including the lung and intestinal tract. In birds, fish and amphibians, calcitonin is secreted from the ultimobrachial glands.
Calcitonin reduces calcium levels in the blood by two main mechanisms: 1  It inhibits the activity of osteoclasts, which are the cells responsible for breaking down bone. 2  It can also decrease the resorption of calcium in the kidneys, again leading to lower blood calcium levels. It inhibits the activity of osteoclasts, which are the cells responsible for breaking down bone. 2  When bone is broken down, the calcium contained in the bone is released into the bloodstream. 3  Therefore, the inhibition of the osteoclasts by calcitonin directly reduces the amount of calcium released into the blood.
Calcitonin. Calcitonin is a hormone known to participate in calcium and phosphorus metabolism. In mammals, the major source of calcitonin is from the parafollicular or C cells in the thyroid gland, but it is also synthesized in a wide variety of other tissues, including the lung and intestinal tract. In birds, fish and amphibians, calcitonin is secreted from the ultimobrachial glands.
Calcitonin is a hormone that is produced in humans by the parafollicular cells (commonly known as C-cells) of the thyroid gland. Calcitonin is involved in helping to regulate levels of calcium and phosphate in the blood, opposing the action of parathyroid hormone. 1 It inhibits the activity of osteoclasts, which are the cells responsible for breaking down bone. 2  When bone is broken down, the calcium contained in the bone is released into the bloodstream. 3  Therefore, the inhibition of the osteoclasts by calcitonin directly reduces the amount of calcium released into the blood.
T3 and T4 are secreted by the follicular cells. Calcitonin is secreted by the parafollicular cells of the thyroid gland and acts to decrease blood calcium levels.1 person found this useful.the concentration of specific nonhormonal substances in the blood or extracellular fluid.) Calcitonin is produced by the parafollicular cells of the thyroid … gland in response to rising