The oxidation number of iron in iron oxide is 2. 1  Formula: FeO. 2  Hill system formula: Fe 1 O 1. 3  CAS registry number: [1345-25-1]. 4  Formula weight: 71.844. 5  Class: oxide. 6  Colour: black. 7  Appearance: crystalline solid. 8  Melting point: 1370°C. 9  Boiling point: decomposes at 3414. 
Iron oxides and oxide-hydroxides are widespread in nature, play an important role in many geological and biological processes, and are widely utilized by humans, e.g., as iron ores, pigments, catalysts, in thermite. Iron(II) oxide, also known as ferrous oxide, is one of the iron oxides. It is a black-colored powder with the chemical formula FeO. It consists of the chemical element iron in the oxidation state of 2 bonded to oxygen. Its mineral form is known as wuestite. wüstite It is of one of the three main oxides of iron, the other two being iron(II) oxide (FeO), which is rare, and iron(II,III) oxide (Fe 3 O 4), which also occurs naturally as the mineral magnetite. As the mineral known as hematite, Fe 2 O 3 is the main source of the iron for the steel industry.
IRON(II) OXIDE Iron(II) oxide, also known as ferrous oxide, is one of the iron oxides. It is a black-colored powder with the chemical formula FeO. It consists of the chemical element iron in the oxidation state of 2 bonded to oxygen. Its mineral form is known as wuestite. wüstite It is of one of the three main oxides of iron, the other two being iron(II) oxide (FeO), which is rare, and iron(II,III) oxide (Fe 3 O 4), which also occurs naturally as the mineral magnetite. As the mineral known as hematite, Fe 2 O 3 is the main source of the iron for the steel industry.
Iron(III) oxide or ferric oxide is the inorganic compound with the formula Fe 2 O 3. It is one of the three main oxides of iron, the other two being iron(II) oxide (FeO), which is rare, and iron(II,III) oxide (Fe 3 O 4), which also occurs naturally as the mineral magnetite. As the mineral known as hematite, Fe 2 O 3 is the main source of iron for the steel industry. Fe 2 O 3 is ferromagnetic, dark red, and readily attacked by acids. Iron(III) oxide is often called rust, and to some extent this label is useful, because rust shares several properties and has a similar composition. Several hydrates of Iron(III) oxide exists. When alkali is added to solutions of soluble Fe(III) salts, a red-brown gelatinous precipitate forms. This is not Fe(OH) 3, but Fe 2 O 3 ·H 2 O (also written as Fe(O)OH). Several forms of the hydrated oxide of Fe(III) exist as well.
Properties. Iron oxide is also known as Rust. Iron Oxide has many different forms. Some of the phases are the Alpha phase, the Beta phase, Gamma phase, and the Epsilon phase. In the Alpha phase, its most common form is as a Rhombohedric, and its occurrence is as the mineral hematite. Iron(III) Oxide is one of the oxide compounds of iron, which has the chemical formula Fe 2 O 3. It has many different names and some of the most common names it is called is hematite, rust, ferric oxide, and colcothar.
Iron oxide is also known as Rust. Iron Oxide has many different forms. Some of the phases are the Alpha phase, the Beta phase, Gamma phase, and the Epsilon phase. Iron(III) Oxide is one of the oxide compounds of iron, which has the chemical formula Fe 2 O 3. It has many different names and some of the most common names it is called is hematite, rust, ferric oxide, and colcothar.
Ruthenium(IV) oxide. Osmium(IV) oxide. Iron(III) Oxide is one of the oxide compounds of iron, which has the chemical formula Fe 2 O 3. It has many different names and some of the most common names it is called is hematite, rust, ferric oxide, and colcothar.
All together, there are sixteen known iron oxides and oxyhydroxides. Iron oxides and oxide-hydroxides are widespread in nature, play an important role in many geological and biological processes, and are widely used by humans, e.g., as iron ores, pigments, catalysts, in thermite (see the diagram) and haemoglobin. Common rust is a form of iron(III) oxide. Iron oxides are widely used as inexpensive, durable pigments in paints, coatings and colored concretes. Colors commonly available are in the earthy end of the yellow/orange/red/brown/black range. When used as a food coloring, it has E number E172.
Iron Oxide. Iron oxide is a chemical compound made up of oxygen and iron. It is commonly known as hematite. Iron Oxide is a mineral, coloured black to steel or silver-gray, brown to reddish brown, or red. It is mined as the main ore of Iron. Iron Oxide's are used as core sand additives to improve sand quality and suppress the incidence of several sand/binder related defects such as lusterous carbon defects, surface carbon pick up in stainless steels, finning/veining, piholing and orange peel defect in shell moulding sands.