Research shows that kittens neutered before 12 weeks of age have fewer complications from surgery than those over 12 weeks. Also, kittens rebound much faster after the surgical procedure, with less stress than their counterparts over 6 months old. Early-age spay/neuter has a positive impact beyond your cat at home.
While it was common to wait until six months to one year of age, cat breeds seem to recover best if the neutering or spay is performed earlier. Extensive studies show that waiting until a kitten reached adulthood is not always best.
Cats can be spayed/neutered as long as they weigh at least 2lbs, are 8 weeks old, and are healthy. My friend does a lot of spay/neuter clinics in low cost areas and a neuter is extremely easy (it literally takes 10-15 minutes). I've had first hand experience seeing kittens spayed at 10 weeks.
Congratulations on your new kitten! Male kittens are usually neutered at between 4 to 6 months of age. However, the AVMA has endorsed early age neutering of dogs and cats 8 to 16 weeks of age. You and your vet can decide what is the best time starting in a few weeks.
Male kittens are usually neutered at between 4 to 6 months of age. However, the AVMA has endorsed early age neutering of dogs and cats 8 to 16 weeks of age. You and your vet can decide what is the best time starting in a few weeks.
When to Spay. To prevent your little one from going into heat, ideally she should be spayed prior to or right around 5 months of age. The youngest a kitty should be before she's spayed is 8 weeks old. Little ones this young need to be at least 2.2 pounds before surgery, recommends the Ohio Alleycat Resource.
The neutering procedure involves removing the cat's testicles. Most male cats reach their sexual maturity at six months of age. Cat owners frequently complain that their kitten's behavior changes. Many begin spraying walls and furniture as they mark their territory, a common behavior at this sexually mature age.
While spaying is traditionally recommended for kitties between 4 and 6 months of age, spaying as young as 8 weeks old is considered safe, according to Cat Channel. Many animal shelters actually spay kitties prior to adopting them out at this age.