Crossbred ewe lambs cycle at a younger age than purebred ewe lambs. The estrus (or heat) cycle Reproduction in non-human mammals is regulated by an estrus cycle. In sheep, the length of the estrus cycle ranges from 13 to 19 days and averages 17 days. The phases of the estrous cycle are proestrus, estrus, metestrus, and diestrus. Estrus is the period of time when the ewe is receptive to the ram and will stand for mating. It lasts approximately 24 to 36 hours
Remember: Do not breed too young, too old or undernourished ewes. A ewe comes into first heat at 6 to 7 months of age, or sometimes earlier, but she should not be bred at this time. This is the reason why ewes and rams must be raised apart as from 4 months old onwards. - She may have trouble giving birth. A good practice is to breed a young ewe when she has reached about 80% of her grown weight. * For example, if grown ewes in your area weigh around 80 pounds, breed young ewes when they weigh 60 to 70 pounds. Complete according to what you have studied. 1  It is convenient to wait at least months after the last parturition (lambing) before a ewe is bred again
Age of puberty. Ewes typically reach puberty at 5 to 12 months, depending on breed, nutrition, and date of birth. Anestrous period (reproductive inactivity). This is the period when ewes normally do not demonstrate estrus (heat).
Lambing intervals of 8 months, three lamb crops every two years, is a common practice. At what age can you start breeding ewe lambs? Depending on the time of year, ewe lambs between 6-8 months may cycle, but better conception rates will be achieved at 9-12 months and the later bred ewes will grow out better. How many ewes can a Dorper ram cover? Ram lambs can frequently cover 20-25 ewes in a 51-day exposure.
Thus, for some producers, it is commonplace to breed well-grown ewe lambs when they are 7 to 9 months of age. Other producers wait until their ewes are 18 months old before breeding them to lamb as 2 year olds. Different breeds of sheep reach puberty (sexually maturity) at different ages. Rams. A healthy, mature ram can probably mate 100 (or more) ewes during a breeding season, though a ratio of 1 mature ram to 35 to 50 ewes is more common to make sure lambing is not too spread out. Seven to 8 month old ram lambs that have achieved approximately 50 percent of their mature size can be used for breeding.
Breeding ewe lambs is not for everyone. Some have had discouraging results, while others have been highly successful for many years. Consider the following recommendations if you plan to breed ewe lambs this fall. 1. Turn the ram in when the ewe lambs are 8-9 months old rather than 6-7 months. This will result in a higher percentage of them lambing. Some producers report having 85% or more of their ewe lambs breeding and lambing. In addition, the extra age and development will result in fewer problems at lambing time. 
Puberty (sexual maturity). Puberty is when a ewe reaches sexual maturity and exhibits estrus (heat) for the first time. The age of puberty is influenced by breed, genetic selection, body size, nutrition, and season of birth. Most ewe lambs reach puberty between 5 and 12 months of age. In sheep, the length of the estrus cycle ranges from 13 to 19 days and averages 17 days. The phases of the estrous cycle are proestrus, estrus, metestrus, and diestrus. Estrus is the period of time when the ewe is receptive to the ram and will stand for mating.
Lambs may be weaned at 3 months old. Katahdin ewes will reproduce for up to 8 years of age with some still active at 12 years old. The Katahdin sheep breed is raised strictly for its meat. The carcass dresses out clean and easy. 
Ewes will cycle every 16 to 17 days until they are bred or they reach the anestrous period. They are normally receptive to the ram for 24 to 48 hours. Once fertilization occurs, the ewe will give birth from 144 to 152 days after mating. 