First Step: Associate Degree. Pediatric nurses must first become registered nurses (RNs). The minimum educational requirement for an RN is an associate of science degree, which takes two years to complete. Becoming a Pediatric Nurse. According to the Society of Pediatric Nurses, Undergraduate nursing programs do not offer a specifically program for pediatric nurses, so specific training in pediatrics is gained on the job after graduation.
Only registered nurses can enter nurse practitioner programs. You can become an RN by completing a diploma program, which is a two-or three-year program from a hospital school of nursing, or by completing an associate degree program, which is a two-year program offered by many community colleges and some universities. Direct Entry. Direct-entry programs take the student through the RN program and straight into the master of science in nursing program. The student can qualify to take the NCLEX-RN exams at the end of 15 months of full-time study. Some direct-entry MSN programs require a baccalaureate in either nursing or another field.
How to Become an OB-GYN Nurse Practitioner. The additional schooling to become a nurse practitioner can pay off. Becoming a nurse practitioner is a bit more time intensive than becoming a registered nurse. 
Obtain a Registered Nurse License in California. Nurse practitioners in the state of California must be registered nurses to qualify for certification. 1  Nursing students planning a career as a nurse practitioner should complete a bachelor's degree program in nursing to obtain the registered nurse credential.
Step 5: Apply for Certification. Graduates of accredited nurse practitioner master's degree programs are generally eligible to take the nurse practitioner certification exam for their practice specialty. 
RN Training. Before you can be a nurse practitioner, you need a bachelor's degree in nursing. Many RNs enter the field with a bachelor's degree, and there is a trend in the profession to see it as the best starting point for career-minded nurses. 
Doctorates for APNs. Alternatively, some NPs acquire a doctorate rather than a master’s degree in nursing. Most doctoral students take 4 to 6 years to complete their coursework and dissertation. There are two basic types of doctoral degrees available to advanced practice nurses: research-focused and practice-focused. How long does it take to become a Nurse Practitioner? Aspiring NPs will first need a 4-year baccalaureate nursing degree, typically the Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN). Afterwards, the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) will take 2 to 3 years of full-time study to complete.