Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a chronic, painful condition involving the trigeminal nerve, the nerve responsible for carrying the sensation of pain and other sensations from the face to the brain. The condition causes intense pain in part or all of the face. 
Your trigeminal nerve is the main sensory nerve of your face. It is responsible for pain and other sensations in your face, and connects many parts of your brain to your face. This nerve also controls some functions involved in biting, chewing and swallowing food. TN is a disorder of the fifth cranial (trigeminal) nerve. The disorder causes periods of intense, stabbing, electric shock-like pain that can last a few seconds or minutes or happen constantly. Pain occurs in the areas of your face where the branches of the nerve are distributed: 1  Lips. 2  Eyes. 3  Nose. 4  Scalp and forehead.
Trigeminal neuralgia is inflammation of the trigeminal nerve, causing intense facial pain. It is also known as tic douloureax because the intense pain can cause patients to contort their face into a grimace and cause the head to move away from the pain. The obvious movement is known as a tic. Hypoglossal. Swallowing, speech articulation. The trigeminal nerve (cranial nerve V) is so named because it has three (tri) branches responsible for face sensation; one branch also regulates chewing. 1  The ophthalmic branch (V 1) is responsible for sensation from the scalp, forehead, upper eyelid and tip of the nose.
Trigeminal nerve. The trigeminal nerve is the fifth cranial nerve located within the brain, and is primarily responsible for transmitting sensations from the face to the brain. It is composed of three branches: the ophthalmic, maxillary, and mandibular. Each branch connects nerves from the brain to different parts of the face. The trigeminal nerve is responsible for transmitting sensations to the mouth, teeth, face, and nasal cavity. It is also the nerve that controls the muscles used for chewing. Trigeminal neuralgia occurs when a blood vessel, either a vein or artery, puts pressure on the nerve at the base of the brain
The trigeminal nerve (the fifth cranial nerve, or simply CN V) is a nerve responsible for sensation in the face and motor functions such as biting and chewing. The largest of the cranial nerves, its name (trigeminal = tri- , or three and-geminus, or twin; thrice-twinned) derives from the fact that each trigeminal nerve (one on each side of the pons) has three major branches: the ophthalmic nerve (V 1), the maxillary nerve (V 2), and the mandibular nerve (V 3).
The trigeminal nerve is the fifth of 12 pairs of cranial nerves in the head. It is the nerve responsible for providing sensation to the face. One trigeminal nerve runs to the right side of the head, while the other runs to the left. Each of these nerves has three distinct branches. Causes. The pain associated with trigeminal neuralgia represents an irritation of the nerve. The cause of the pain usually is due to contact between a healthy artery or vein and the trigeminal nerve at the base of the brain. This places pressure on the nerve as it enters the brain and causes the nerve to misfire.
Trigeminal Neuralgia. Trigeminal neuralgia is a chronic pain condition that involves the 5th cranial or trigeminal nerve (the fifth cranial nerve, also called the fifth nerve, or simply CNV or CN5). The trigeminal nerve is responsible for sensation in the face