The brain is divided into lobes as illustrated above and below: Frontal Lobes. The frontal lobes are part of the Cerebral Cortex and are the largest of the brain's structures. They are the main site of so–called 'higher' Cognitive functions. The parietal lobe contains areas responsible for the sensation of touch and association, this area enables fine judgement of sensation such as texture, weight, size. Symptoms of tumours in this area include: 1  Loss of sensation in part of the body.
Frontal association area of the brain helps plan movements. It's also involved with personality, control of emotions and expression of emotional behavior. The association are … a of the frontal lobe is also where planning occurs. It is considered the most complication region of the brain. It is involved with intellect (cognition,) complex learning abilities, recall … and personality. Contains working memory, formulated abstract ideas, judgment, planning, reasoning, and persistence.
Primary sensory and motor areas and sensory and motor association areas. Arrows show the direction of information flow from primary areas to sensory association areas. The information flows in the opposite direction for the motor system. For example, nerve cells in (a part of) the visual association area respond to visual stimuli that have some kind of complex pattern or structure. They usually respond only when the eye looks at complex patterns, such as images of objects, abstract forms, hands, faces, or even specific faces (K.
The brain's association areas are areas of the cerebral cortex that are not involved in primary motor or sensory functions. Association areas are found in all four lobes of the brain, and are involved in higher mental processes, like learning, remembering, speaking, and thinking. It is considered the most complication region of the brain. It is involved with intellect (cognition,) complex learning abilities, recall … and personality. Contains working memory, formulated abstract ideas, judgment, planning, reasoning, and persistence.
The cerebral cortex is divided into sensory, motor and association areas. Sensory areas receive sensory input, motor areas control movement of muscles. Association areas are involved with more complex functions such as learning, decision making and complex movements such as writing. The central sulcus divides the primary sensory and motor areas. Both the sensory cortex and the motor cortex have been mapped out according to what part of the body it controls.
The parts of the brain that make association possible are located  in the cerebral cortex. Associations are one of the most powerful  ways of thinking and remembering. It is considered the most complication region of the brain. It is involved with intellect (cognition,) complex learning abilities, recall … and personality. Contains working memory, formulated abstract ideas, judgment, planning, reasoning, and persistence.
Association Cortex Association cortex is the cerebral cortex outside the primary areas (Figure 1). It is essential for mental functions that are more complex than detecting basic dimensions of sensory stimulation, for which primary sensory areas appear to be necessary. For example, nerve cells in (a part of) the visual association area respond to visual stimuli that have some kind of complex pattern or structure. They usually respond only when the eye looks at complex patterns, such as images of objects, abstract forms, hands, faces, or even specific faces (K.
Association areas take up an increasingly larger percentage of the cerebral cortex as brain size increases among different species. Figure 2-1e illustrates the increase in relative size of association areas as the brain gets bigger. Association cortex is shown as the pink area outside the primary cortical areas. For example, nerve cells in (a part of) the visual association area respond to visual stimuli that have some kind of complex pattern or structure. They usually respond only when the eye looks at complex patterns, such as images of objects, abstract forms, hands, faces, or even specific faces (K.
Association Areas are sections of the cerebral cortex that are connected to the function of a primary part of the cerebral cortex. 
In humans the association areas are by far the most developed part of the cerebral cortex, and the brain in general. These areas are necessary for perceptual activities, like recognizing objects (toasters, horses, trees, words, etc), rather than simple contours, edges or sensory qualities like color or pitch. For example, nerve cells in (a part of) the visual association area respond to visual stimuli that have some kind of complex pattern or structure. They usually respond only when the eye looks at complex patterns, such as images of objects, abstract forms, hands, faces, or even specific faces (K.