For the colostomy, one end of the healthy colon is brought out through an opening made in the abdomen wall, usually on the left side. The edges of bowel are stitched to the skin of opening. This opening is called a stoma. A bag called a stoma appliance is placed around the opening to allow stool to drain. Your colostomy may be short-term. If you have surgery on part of your large intestine, a colostomy allows the other part of your intestine to rest while you recover.
To perform a colostomy, the surgeon makes an opening through the skin on your abdomen and connects your bowel to that opening. This opening is called a stoma or, sometimes, a colostomy. Your stool passes out of your body through the opening. A disposable bag is attached over the opening to collect stool.
A colostomy is a surgery in which the colon (large intestine) is re-routed and attached to an opening in the abdomen and skin called a stoma. The colon, or large intestine, forms and eliminates stool through the rectum. After a colostomy, stool drains into a colostomy bag attached around the stoma instead of through the rectum. You may need a colostomy if your colon is diseased or injured and cannot form and eliminate stool normally.
During a colostomy, surgeons divert one end of the large intestine into a visible opening – known as a stoma – on the patient’s abdomen. A small pouch, or colostomy bag, is then placed over the stoma to collect waste products that would normally pass through a person's rectum and anus in the bathroom. An ileostomy is a similar procedure that applies to the small, rather than the large, intestine.
The colostomy drains stool (feces) from the colon into the colostomy bag. Colostomy stool is often softer and more liquid than stool that is passed normally. The texture of stool depends on which part of the intestine was used to form the colostomy.
It is attached to a stoma, which is an opening created when a person has a surgery to send waste out of the body through the abdomen instead of through the rectum. The stoma leads from the inner abdomen to the outside of the body and deposits waste into the colostomy bag.