The oral typhoid vaccine is administered four times, two days apart, with the last dose taken at least one week before travel. This vaccine lasts for up to five years, after which a booster dose is given for people who plan to continue their travels or who are otherwise considered at risk for getting typhoid fever. The typhoid injection is given only once, at least two weeks before travel. The injection lasts only two years compared with the five years of protection offered by the oral typhoid vaccine.
The typhoid oral vaccine is given in a series of 4 capsules that are taken 1 per day on alternating days (days 1, 3, 5, and 7). On this alternating-day schedule, you will take 1 capsule every 48 hours for 7 days. You must take each capsule according to the recommended schedule for this vaccine to be effective. The typhoid vaccine is used to help prevent this disease in adults and children who are at least 6 years old. Although not part of a routine immunization schedule in the U.S., typhoid vaccine is recommended for people who travel to areas where the disease is common.
There are two types of typhoid vaccine, one is injected and the other is given by mouth (orally). Neither vaccine provides protection for longer than 3 years, so if you will be travelling to a country where typhoid is present, and it has been about 3 years since your last vaccination, you may need to be revaccinated. The oral typhoid vaccine (Vivotif oral) can be given to children 6 years and older. The injected typhoid vaccines can be given to children 2 years and older. You should not have the oral typhoid vaccine if: 1  you are pregnant (see below). 2  you’re already being treated for typhoid infection
It takes one week for the vaccine to be effective. You can still protect yourself against Typhoid even without the vaccination. Take precautions with food and drinks while in an effected area: (From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Boil it, cook it, peel it, or forget it. 
Hepatitis A-boost with a single dose of hepatitis A vaccine 6 months to 36 months later for long term protection. Typhoid-re-immunize with a single dose of Typh-I vaccine every 3 years. HA-Typh-I vaccine can be used after 3 years if boosters are needed for both hepatitis A and typhoid. Refer to Vaccine Administration Practices in Part 1 for additional information.
The typhoid oral vaccine is given in a series of 4 capsules that are taken 1 per day on alternating days (days 1, 3, 5, and 7). On this alternating-day schedule, you will take 1 capsule every 48 hours for 7 days. You must take each capsule according to the recommended schedule for this vaccine to be effective. The complete series of 4 vaccine capsules should provide protection against typhoid for up to 5 years. Another series of 4 capsules is then recommended every 5 years during possible exposure to typhoid. Your individual booster schedule may be different from these guidelines.
Remember that you will need to complete your vaccination at least 1 week before you travel so that the vaccine has time to take effect. Typhoid vaccines lose effectiveness after several years; if you were vaccinated in the past, check with your doctor to see if it is time for a booster vaccination. If you are traveling to a country where typhoid (Salmonella serotype Typhi) is common, you should consider being vaccinated against typhoid. Visit a doctor or travel clinic to discuss your vaccination options
Typhoid Vaccine: Injection. The typhoid injection is given only once, at least two weeks before travel. The injection lasts only two years compared with the five years of protection offered by the oral typhoid vaccine. After two years, a booster shot is needed for people who plan to continue traveling in countries where typhoid is common or who are otherwise at risk