Assisted Living Costs. In general, assisted living costs are at a national average monthly fee of $3,131. Costs can increase for residents receiving care for Alzheimer’s to about $4,267 per month. 
The average cost for a private one-bedroom apartment in an assisted living residence is over $3,000 per month, according to research compiled by several nonprofit senior living organizations, including the Assisted Living Federation of America. 
The national median monthly rate for a one-bedroom unit in an assisted living facility is $3,500, according to the 2014 Cost of Care Survey released in April by Genworth Financial Inc. of Richmond, Virginia. That's $42,000 per year, an increase of 1.45 percent over 2013. 
Assisted Living Costs by State. The Genworth 2015 Cost of Care Survey is the most comprehensive study of its kind. Genworth Financial surveyed approximatey 15% of assisted living communities. The monthly cost is for a one-bedroom unit in an assisted living facility. The cost of assisted living varies significantly between facilities across the nation and even within the same city. We have compiled estimated costs of assisted living facilities in the United States from many industry surveys. The costs of assisted living care depend on the level of service a resident requires.
Just as the cost of real estate varies by geographic area, assisted living costs also vary nationwide. In the 2015 Cost of Care Survey conducted by Genworth Financial, assisted living showed an increase of 2.86% compared to the 2014 costs and the national median monthly rate is $3,600. Ranging from $1,000 to $5,000, this fee is non-refundable and covers administrative expenses and the cost of apartment renovations between residents. Other assisted living costs may include fees for private transportation, off-site activities, guest meals and use of a guest apartment within the community.
Communities that provide assisted living services in Virginia are called Adult Care Facilities. Adult Care Facilities are licensed to provide personal as well as health care services, around-the-clock supervision and assistance to four or more elderly adults in a residential setting. In Virginia there are 408 Assisted Living Facilities.
HARRISONBURG, Va. -- The cost of long term health care is increasing in Virginia. In the Commonwealth, the yearly cost for living in an assisted living facility is just over $45,000. In comparison, the national average of increased costs is lower, at $41,400, according to a Genworth financial survey. Hughes said when looking for assisted living, it's important to really do your research. You can go to Virginia's state website and compare rankings of facilities, as well as costs. The cost of a private nursing home room has also risen 4.7 % annually over the past five years in Virginia to $83,950.
Assisted Living Costs in Chesapeake, VA. Cost for a single bedroom in Chesapeake runs between $1,755 to $5,690 a month. Availability is almost guaranteed but you can request information online by filling out the form to the right or call us at (866) 333-8391 for a no-cost, in-depth assessment of your senior care needs. 130 Great Bridge Boulevard. Chesapeake, VA 23320. Allzwell Assisted Living is located in Chesapeake, Virginia and offers a warm and caring environment for seniors who need assistance with daily living tasks.There are indoor and outdoor common areas available to residents.
Cost of Virginia Assisted Living Facilities. According to the 2015 Genworth Financial cost of care survey, the average cost of assisted living in Virginia is $3,933 per month. The monthly base rate for Virginia assisted living is typically higher when compared to neighboring states. Virginia is also more expensive compared to the national average. This cost is the base cost for a one-bedroom assisted living unit in Virginia. Additional fees beyond the base rate may apply. If built after 1996, an assisted living facility must provide a minimum of 100 square feet of living space, and no more than two residents may share a room. If built prior to 1996, up to four residents may share a room and at least 80 square feet of living space is required per resident. Other building codes apply.
ALF in Virginia is the most for your money, when it comes to the average cost for senior living in U.S. today. The average annual rate is $41,775 with a 6% 5 year annual growth rate. That averages out to around $3,481 a month and $141 a day. That is over $30,000 less then nursing homes. To search for just one type of care (like assisted living or nursing homes) enter Chesapeake or your zip into the search bar and then use the tabs to limit to a single type of care. See all Virginia senior living options. For download speed reasons, results limited to 25 (SEE ALL 88).