Cell Theory. The discovery of the cell was made possible by the invention of the microscope, which was made possible by improved lens-grinding techniques. Antoni van Leeuwenhoek (1632-1723), a Dutch tradesman, learned to grind lenses and assemble them into simple microscopes.
Cell first observed. Robert Hooke, an English scientist, discovered a honeycomb-like structure in a cork slice using a primitive compound microscope. He only saw cell walls as this was dead tissue. He coined the term cell for these individual compartments he saw.
1 All known living things are made up of one or more cells. 2  All living cells arise from pre-existing cells by division. 3  The cell is the fundamental unit of structure and function in all living organisms. 4  The activity of an organism depends on the total activity of independent cells. Over a century later, many debates about cells began amongst scientists. Most of these debates involved the nature of cellular regeneration, and the idea of cells as a fundamental unit of life. Cell theory was eventually formulated in 1838.
The cell was first discovered by Robert Hooke in 1665 using a microscope. The first cell theory is credited to the work of Theodor Schwann and Matthias Jakob Schleiden in the 1830s. Over a century later, many debates about cells began amongst scientists. Most of these debates involved the nature of cellular regeneration, and the idea of cells as a fundamental unit of life. Cell theory was eventually formulated in 1838.
This discovery is largely attributed to Robert Hooke, and began the scientific study of cells, also known as cell biology. Over a century later, many debates about cells began amongst scientists. Most of these debates involved the nature of cellular regeneration, and the idea of cells as a fundamental unit of life. Cell theory was eventually formulated in 1838.
The Englishman Robert Hooke (18th July 1635 - 3rd March 1703) was an architect, natural philosopher and brilliant scientist, best known for his law of elasticity (Hooke's law), his book Micrographia, published in 1665 and for first applying the word cell to describe the basic unit of life. Robert Hooke's microscope. Perhaps his most famous observations were in his study of thin slices of cork, describing the pores, or cells he viewed. Hooke had discovered plant cells, or more precisely, Hooke had been viewing the cell walls in cork tissue.
Around the same time as Robert Hooke, a Dutch scientist Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, also observed cells with his improved microscope. He is now known as “the father of microbiology” and was the first to observe a live cell under a microscope. He discovered many different types of cells including bacteria, sperm, muscle fibers and protozoa. He was also made the first description of a red blood cell. It wasn’t until 1839 that Theodor Schwann and Matthias Jakob Schleiden co-founded the principal of cell theory.
The word cell was first used by English scientist Robert Hooke in 1665 to describe the cell walls visible in cork when seen through a microscope. In 1838 the German botanist M … atthias Schleiden concluded that all plant tissues were made of cells. 
Date Event 1665 Cell first observed Robert Hooke, an English scientist, discovered a honeycomb-like structure in a cork slice using a primitive compound microscope. He only saw cell walls as this was dead tissue. He coined the term cell for these individual compartments he saw.
Robert Hooke is the scientist that is usually credited with the discovery of the cell. He was the first to use the word cell, because the first cells he observed looked similar to monk’s cells. He observed cork cells and published his findings in a book called Micrographia in 1665. He discovered many different types of cells including bacteria, sperm, muscle fibers and protozoa. He was also made the first description of a red blood cell. It wasn’t until 1839 that Theodor Schwann and Matthias Jakob Schleiden co-founded the principal of cell theory.