Confidence votes 3.0K. Michael Jackson was pronounced dead June 25, 2009, 2:26 pm PT at UCLA Medical Center-according to his brother Jermaine Jackson-after collapsing at his home in Holmby Hills, CA (a community in the Los Angeles area) earlier that day.
Michael Jackson had a cocktail of drugs in his system when he died, according to testimony in the wrongful death suit Jackson's family has filed against AEG. May 07, 2013 | By Jeff Gottlieb, Los Angeles Times. Michael Jackson is shown at a news conference in London in March 2009. (Joel Ryan, Associated Press). When he died, Michael Jackson had a cocktail of anti-depressant and mood drugs in his system as well as a level of the anesthetic propofol typical of a patient undergoing major surgery.
Paramedics rushed to the scene and found  Michael Jackson in a coma, not breath … ing. He was rushed to UCLA  Medical Center in Los Angeles, CA.   The King of Pop died the same day, June 25th 2009, at 2:26pm, due  to cardiac arrest (heart stoppage), at the age of 50.
Paramedics rushed to the scene and found  Michael Jackson in a coma, not breath … ing. He was rushed to UCLA  Medical Center in Los Angeles, CA.   The King of Pop died the same day, June 25th 2009, at 2:26pm, due  to cardiac arrest (heart stoppage), at the age of 50.
On June 25, 2009, Michael Jackson died of acute propofol and benzodiazepine intoxication at his home on North Carolwood Drive in the Holmby Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles.
Michael Jackson was pronounced dead June 25, 2009, 2:26 pm PT at UCLA Medical Center-according to his brother Jermaine Jackson-after collapsing at his home in Holmby Hills … , CA (a community in the Los Angeles area) earlier that day.
On the eve of Jackson's 51st birthday, the Los Angeles County Coroner concluded that his death was a homicide. Shortly before his death, Jackson had reportedly been administered propofol and two anti-anxiety benzodiazepines— lorazepam and midazolam —in his home.
These are the facts: Michael Jackson died, aged 50, in his rented home in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles in 2009, as he was preparing for a series of comeback music concerts at London’s 02 Arena.