In the mid-1980s Electronic Arts aggressively marketed products for the Commodore Amiga, a premier home computer of the late 1980s and early 1990s in Europe. Commodore had given EA development tools and prototype machines before Amiga's actual launch. For Amiga EA published some notable non-game titles. As of Nov 6, 2008 it was confirmed that Electronic Arts is closing their Casual Label & merging it with their Hasbro partnership with The Sims Label. EA also confirmed the departure of Kathy Vrabeck, who was given the position as former president of the EA Casual Division in May 2007.
EA headquarters in Redwood City, California. Electronic Arts is a company that is an American developer, marketer, publisher, and distributor of computer and video games, that was founded in 1982. Products of the company include EA Sports franchises, Sims, and other titles on both handheld and home gaming consoles. As of February 2015, Electronic Arts' largest acquisition is the purchase of VG Holding Corp., the then-owner of video game developers Bioware and Pandemic Studios, for $775 million.
Redwood City, California. BACKGROUND: Electronic Arts Inc. is a leading global interactive entertainment software company. EA delivers games, content and online services for Internet-connected consoles, personal computers, mobile phones and tablets.
For more than seven months, Hawkins refined his Electronic Arts business plan. With aid from his first employee (with whom he worked in marketing at Apple), Rich Melmon, the original plan was written, mostly by Hawkins, on an Apple II in Sequoia Capital's office in August 1982. As of Nov 6, 2008 it was confirmed that Electronic Arts is closing their Casual Label & merging it with their Hasbro partnership with The Sims Label. EA also confirmed the departure of Kathy Vrabeck, who was given the position as former president of the EA Casual Division in May 2007.
Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. At EA, we thrive on outrageous thinking. It’s the fuel that inspires the best games in the world. We are a community of artists, storytellers, technologists and innovators working in one of the most dynamic industries today. At EA, the excitement you feel throughout each workday is made possible by a culture that inspires you to do the best work of your career. For years, we’ve been building a company where amazing minds thrive. We take risks and we dream big. And together, we are changing the way millions play every day.
Electronic Arts, Inc. is a global interactive entertainment software company. The company is organized into five operating labels: EA Games, EA SPORTS, Maxis, PopCap and All Play. The All Play Label develops interactive games for play on mobile devices and Internet platforms. It also offers games under the Pogo brand. Electronic Arts was founded by William M. Hawkins III in 1982 and is headquartered in Redwood City, CA.
In 2011, Electronic Arts was the world's third-largest gaming company by revenue after Nintendo and Activision Blizzard. Currently, EA develops and publishes games under several labels including EA Sports titles FIFA, Madden NFL, NHL, NCAA Football, NBA Live, and SSX. As of Nov 6, 2008 it was confirmed that Electronic Arts is closing their Casual Label & merging it with their Hasbro partnership with The Sims Label. EA also confirmed the departure of Kathy Vrabeck, who was given the position as former president of the EA Casual Division in May 2007.
You. At EA, the talent coming straight from campus is the talent that will design the next epic MMO battle, broker the next strategic partnership, and create the digital marketing campaigns that will reach the next generation of gamers. You will join a community of creative, inquisitive, strategic, smart minds. 