grime. dirt, esp. sooty dirt, rubbed into or covering a surface, as of the skin. Early ModE, probably; from Flemish grijm, akin to Old English grima; from Indo-European an unverified form ghrei- ; from base an unverified form gher- , to rub hard, smear from source Classical Greek chrisma, ointment. Origin of grime.
grime. n. 1. dirt, soot, or filth, esp when thickly accumulated or ingrained. 2. (Pop Music) a genre of music originating in the East End of London and combining elements of garage, hip-hop, rap, and jungle. vb. grime. 1. dirt, soot, or other filthy matter, esp. adhering to or embedded in a surface. 2. to cover with dirt; make very dirty; soil. grīma mask, to denote layer of dust; compare dial.
Dizzee Rascal, Wiley, Kano and Lethal Bizzle were among the first to bring the genre to mainstream media attention in 2003–2004, with their albums Boy in da Corner, Treddin' on Thin Ice, Home Sweet Home and Against All Oddz respectively. Whereas hip hop is inherently dance music, the writer argues that grime sounds as if it had been made for a boxing gym, one where the fighters have a lot of punching to do but not much room to move.. Frere-Jones also states that grime has maintained a style different to hip hop.
Related to dubstep · hip-hop · electronic · rap · british. read more. Grime is a genre of urban music that first emerged in Bow, East London, England in the early 2000s, primarily a development of UK garage, and dancehall. 
Full Definition of GRIME. : soot, smut, or dirt adhering to or embedded in a surface; broadly: accumulated dirtiness and disorder. — grime transitive verb. See grime defined for English-language learners. See grime defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
read this http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grime_(musi... the grime artists u can listen to is roll deep crew, dizze rascal, wiley, skepta, N-dubz and many more look here http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Gr... Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: grime has started in england, east london from Bow. it is more gritty and its like rap really, grime was made by black, white and asian people and from rough inner city areas in england.
Grime is not hip-hop and Grime is not ragga. Grime is a mix between all of these with strong, hard hitting lyrics. It's the inner city music scene of London. Grime. Grime is a style of music, even a lifestyle to some. Similar to hip hop, grime borrows from a wide range of music styles. Grime is heavily influenced by hip hop and speed garage, essentially being a cross between the two. Other strong influences in grime include drum 'n' bass, dub, dubstep, reggea, and soul
grime. n. Black dirt or soot, especially such dirt clinging to or ingrained in a surface. tr.v. grimed, grim·ing, grimes. To cover with black dirt or soot; begrime. grime. 1. dirt, soot, or other filthy matter, esp. adhering to or embedded in a surface. 2. to cover with dirt; make very dirty; soil. grīma mask, to denote layer of dust; compare dial.
It is primarily a development of UK garage, drum and bass, dancehall. Pioneers of this stylized music include Chip, Dizzee Rascal, Ghetts, Jammer, Kano, Lethal Bizzle, Skepta, and Wiley. Prominent grime crews include Boy Better Know, Newham Generals and Roll Deep. Whereas hip hop is inherently dance music, the writer argues that grime sounds as if it had been made for a boxing gym, one where the fighters have a lot of punching to do but not much room to move.. Frere-Jones also states that grime has maintained a style different to hip hop.