PermaChrome PVD has the largest inventory of Chrome and Black Chrome PVD wheels in the U.S. PVD or Physical Vapor Deposition is a patented cutting-edge wheel finish technology that combines vacuum plating with powder coating as a durable and environmentally-green alternative to traditional chrome plating. New PVD Chrome Technology Replaces Traditional Chrome Plating. 1  Our wheels will NEVER pit or peel. 2  The PVD (Physical Vapor Deposition) process is environmentally-green. 3  All PermaChrome PVD wheels are backed by a full 5 year/100,000 mile warranty.
A Breakdown of PVD vs. Chrome. First, PVD chrome wheels are up 2-3 lbs lighter than their chrome counterparts. This is because the actual media used to coat the wheels weighs far less than traditional chrome plating. Because PVD doesn’t add extra weight to your wheels, this helps decrease rotating mass. 
Kwicksilver has a new chroming method based on physical vapor deposition (PVD). It is 100% environmentally friendly, using no hazardous materials and producing no hazardous waste. Better still, it has a 5 year warranty (typical chrome is 1 year), will not oxidize under winter conditions, and is 80% lighter than chrome. 
Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD) is a time tested proven technology that has been used for decades in other industries. It is now available for automotive wheels. This new state of the art process provides a superior alternative to traditional “Chrome Plating”. Chrome plating is well known for the many problems it has with pitting & peeling of the chrome surface. A PVD coated wheel virtually eliminates those problems. We guarantee the coating for (5) five full years. The PVD process is an environmentally friendly method of producing a bright wheel finish that is more durable than traditional chrome plating
Physial vapor deposition (PVD) is a generic term for vacuum plating processes involving bombardment of the surface by energetic ions to enhance coating adhesion and improve coating structure. It is a common industrial process. 
PermaChrome PVD has the largest inventory of Chrome-and Black Chrome PVD wheels in the U.S. PVD or Physical Vapor Deposition is a patented cutting-edge wheel finish technology that combines vacuum plating with powder coating as a durable and environmentally-green alternative to traditional chrome plating. • Our wheels will NEVER pit or peel. • The PVD (Physical Vapor Deposition) process is environmentally-green. • All PermaChrome PVD wheels are backed by a full 5 year/100,000 mile warranty. • PVD coating weighs less than chrome plating for increased fuel economy.
PVD (Physical Vapor Deposition) coating is an alternative to the standard chrome plating method used to coat aluminum vehicle rims. PVD is a layering method, which sandwiches a metal alloy in between a base and top coat of powder coating. While the PVD coating will give you the same effect appearance wise as chrome plating, PVD coating is more cost effective. Because of the advanced system that is used for PVD coating, we are able to provide this service in a bright or black finish.
PVD Chrome wheels are a powder coated chrome process that combines the durability of powder coating with the look of chrome. PVD Chrome will not pit, peel or corrode like traditional chrome plating. 1  Partner with AdRev and Make Money on YouTube! 2  People & Blogs. 
PVD Chroming. Wheel-Tech offers cutting-edge PVD chroming as an alternative to chrome plating. The PVD (Physical Vapor Deposition) process is more environmentally friendly and produces a superior and a highly durable finish which strongly resembles the high gloss of chrome plating. You can choose between two finishes: the Bright PVD Chrome or the Black PVD Chrome. PVD stands for Particle Vapor Deposition. This process entails stripping the original coating off of your wheels down to bare aluminum. The wheel is sand blasted and chemically treated for cleaning and adhesion purposes.
PVD: Process flow diagram. Physical vapor deposition (PVD) describes a variety of vacuum deposition methods which can be used to produce thin films. PVD uses physical process (such as heating or sputtering) to produce a vapor of material, which is then deposited on the object which requires coating. 