The most widely spoken language in Norway is Norwegian. It is a North Germanic language, closely related to Swedish and Danish, all linguistic descendants of Old Norse. Norwegian is used by some 95% of the population as a first language. Spoken by the Kven people, the Kven language is a Finnic language, closely related to Finnish, and spoken by some five to eight thousand people in northeastern Norway, particularly in Tromsoe (tromsø in the county Of) troms And. finnmark
Best Answer: Short answer is no, they all speak their own native languages. Sweden and Norwegian both derive from Old Norse, which was an Indo-European language. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Short answer is no, they all speak their own native languages. Sweden and Norwegian both derive from Old Norse, which was an Indo-European language. In fact the two countries were one single kingdom for quite some time.
Swedish language. Swedish (svenska (help·info) [ˈsvɛnːˈska]) is a North Germanic language, spoken natively by about 9 million people predominantly in Sweden and parts of Finland, where it has equal legal standing with Finnish. It is largely mutually intelligible with Norwegian and Danish (see Classification). 
No, Swedes speak Swedish and Norwegians speak Norwegian. But Norwegian and Swedish are very similar. I speak Swedish and Norwegian and the grammar and lots of words are the same. Danish and Swedish are similar too. Source(s): I am Swedish and I live in Sweden, but I speak Norwegian and 13 other languages too. 
Report Abuse. People in Norway and Sweden speak similarly and can understand one another, although it is not the same language. The Finnish language is not related to any other as far as can be traced, although there is a theory that it has something in common with Hungarian. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Short answer is no, they all speak their own native languages. Sweden and Norwegian both derive from Old Norse, which was an Indo-European language. In fact the two countries were one single kingdom for quite some time.
There are three main languages spoken in Norway. There is no such language as Norwegian actually. 1) Bokmal is the official language of Norway, often called Norwegian. It is not a separate language, but a dialect of Danish with some different spelling rules. It is a native language in the south mainly, but all students in Norway must learn it. 2) Nynorsk is what we might consider true.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Swedish is the official language of Sweden and is spoken by the vast majority of the nine million inhabitants of the country. It is a North Germanic language and quite similar to its sister Scandinavian languages, Danish and Norwegian. In medieval Sweden, the Low German language had a very important role as a commercial language and the lingua franca of the Hanseatic league. As such, the Low German language influenced Swedish and other languages in the region considerably. In medieval Stockholm, half of the population were Low German speakers.
About the Scandinavian Languages: The languages spoken in Scandinavia are called North Germanic languages, and include Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Faroese. These languages are generally sorted into the East- (Danish, Swedish) and West-Scandinavian (Norwegian, Icelandic) languages. Finnish belongs to the Finno-Ugric language family. Icelandic is a language also part of the North Germanic languages, and is related to Swedish, Norwegian, Danish/Faroese. Unfortunately, there are only 290,000 speakers nowadays. Icelandic is Iceland's official language.
Sami languages, like Kven and Finnish, belong to the Uralic language family. The Sami languages spoken in Norway include Lule Sami (spoken by around 500 in Norway), North Sami (spoken by around 15,000 Norwegian Sami), Pite Sami (which is nearly extinct) and South Sami (which has around 300 speakers in Norway). Sami languages are official in seven Norwegian municipalities. Spoken by the Kven people, the Kven language is a Finnic language, closely related to Finnish, and spoken by some five to eight thousand people in northeastern Norway, particularly in Tromsoe (tromsø in the county Of) troms And. finnmark