The Caddo lived in grass houses. They were either conical or round and could reach up to 40 feet tall. They were formed by bending wood into shape and then thatching it with long prairie grasses. They were only useful for those living in warm climates. Caves, if available, trees if need-be, primitive lean-to type things that had some natur … al beginnings.Thickets that had thorns would keep predators from having easy access. Just in small goups on the ground when no real shelter was available.
Environments: (where they lived and what was around them. ). Physical environment: The Caddo lived in east and northeast Texas. This part of Texas is the western end of a pine forest that goes from the Atlantic ocean across the South and into East Texas. This is a dense pine forest, with hardwood trees like oak, hickory and pecan growing in the river bottoms and creek bottoms.
Australopithecine Afarensis, an early hominid, lived in shelters as they found them. Caves, if available, trees if need-be, primitive lean-to type things that had some natur … al beginnings.Thickets that had thorns would keep predators from having easy access. Just in small goups on the ground when no real shelter was available.
In addition to a distinctive language, dances and pottery, the Caddo are also known for their large, beehive-shaped homes constructed from dried grass, or thatch. While modern Caddo don't live in thatch houses, tribe members still build the homes in ceremonies to preserve the practice. The Caddo are a Native American agriculture-based tribe that settled in modern-day Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma around A.D. 900.
The Caddo were farmers who lived in East Texas. There were two main groups of the Caddo in Texas. One major Caddo tribe was the Kadohadacho. The Kadohadacho lived in large villages along the Red river near the present day Oklahoma-Arkansas border. The other was the Tejas or Hasinais Caddo who lived around present day Nacogdoches. WHERE THEY LIVED, The Caddo lived in east Texas in the piney forests. Look at the map of East Texas Indian lands. Their territory extended into Louisiana. Arkansas and Oklahoma. This region has a good annual rainfall and is in a temperate region. This is a good climate for farming.
The Caddo Home. The Caddo lived in large, dome-shaped, one-room homes covered in overlapping layers of thatch. The waterproof thatch exterior provided ventilation in the summer and warmth in winter with the help of a small fire built on the floor of the home. Caddo grass houses could accommodate about 30 people. The Caddo are a Native American agriculture-based tribe that settled in modern-day Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma around A.D. 900.
One of the primary dwellings of the Caddo people in ancient times were houses that resembled large beehives. These dwellings were covered with grass, or thatch, that provided a waterproof and windproof shelter. 
Yet the Caddo were able to build tall, dome-shaped grass houses, some large enough for 30 people to live in! Amazingly, they built each house in a single day by working togethereverybody in the village pitched in to help. The grass houses were sturdy and dry. The Caddo made stone tools such as these axe heads or celts and attached them to wooden handles for many wood-working tasks. A dome-shaped grass house. For hundreds of years, the Caddo Indians built huge dome-shaped houses, temples, and other structures without using modern equipment or tools! They had no chainsaws or metal axes to cut down the tall pine trees from the forests. They had no metal hammers and nails to join the pieces of their houses together