Adding salt to water doesn’t make it boil faster, it makes it hotter. The boiling point of water is at 100 degrees celsius. If you add salt to water it will ‘increase, its boiling point from around 100-106. Adding salt to water takes it little longer to boil (but not too much, usually the intervals are just in a few seconds). This process is best used when cooking. The ‘real truth, however, is that when you add salt to already ‘boiling water, it would appear to ‘boil even more,. This is probably the reason why people misunderstood, that salt actually makes the boiling process faster. So the next time you cook, make sure to add salt in the water.
It's really very simple. Answer: You can boil or evaporate the water and the salt will be left behind as a solid. If you want to collect the water, you can use distillation. One way to do this at home would be to boil the saltwater in a pot with a lid. 
Answer   Yes, but in some sense you boil the water out of the salt!    By boiling the water, the water turns to steam and rising, but the salt does not, and … so it stays behind. If you have a way to collect the steam and turn it back into water, you will have pure water! This is called distillation. Adding salt creates a solution that has a higher boiling point, - the boiling solution temperature would be higher then just one of boiling water. when you put pasta i … n it, the pasta gets cooked faster and doesnt come out too soft and mushy.
You could, in theory, make water boil faster by adding more salt, but it’d probably make for inedible noodles or spuds: you’d need 3 tablespoons of salt in 1 quart of water to increase the boiling point by 1F degree. Remember, no one likes al dente pasta that tastes like a salt lick. 1  Tags: 2  cooking. 3  pasta. 4  salt. At this point, known as the boiling point, the vapor pressure of the water is equal to atmospheric pressure (pressure of the air around us). So why should you add salt to boiling water? The strange but scientifically proven phenomenon that occurs when adding salt to water is known as boiling point elevation.
The boiling point of water does rise if you add salt to it, but only by about 2 C (4 F) to 102 C (216 F). Remember, water boils at 100 C (212 F). This is an insignificant change for adding such a large amount of salt. Now back to the question. If you look at the heat capacity of salt water, you will find that it is less than pure water. In other words, it takes less energy to raise the temperature of the salt water 1 C than pure water. This means that the salt water heats up faster and eventually gets to its boiling point first. Why does salt water have a lower heat capacity? If you look at 100 grams of pure water, it contains 100 grams of water, but 100 grams of 20 percent salt water only contains 80 grams of water
So yes, salt increases the boiling temperature, but not by very much. If you add 20 grams of salt to five litres of water, instead of boiling at 100° C, it’ll boil at 100.04° C. So a big spoon of salt in a pot of water will increase the boiling point by four hundredths of a degree! So adding salt to water will not cook your pasta faster – unless your watch is calibrated in microseconds.
Salt is dissolved in the water so when we heat it the water evaporates leaving salt below. Salt water can't evaporate. However, the water fraction of it can, and often does, but then the salt (Sodium Chloride, NaCl), is left behind. A look at the Utah salt flats shows what it looks like when it's left.
Best Answer: The water evaporates, the salt doesn't. That's why if you boil a pot of salt water long enough you'll eventually be left with little salt pieces in the pot once the water is gone. 
Another reason salt is added to water is because it increases the boiling point of the water, meaning your water will have a higher temperature when you add the pasta, so it will cook better. That's how it works in theory. In reality, you would need to add 230 grams of table salt to a liter of water just to raise the boiling point by 2° C. That is 58 grams per half degree Celsius for each liter or kilogram of water.