This crystals name comes from the Greek word 'amethustos', meaning non-drunk. One of the interesting facts about Amethyst crystals is that the ancient Greeks made cups from the purple stone, as they believed it could prevent you from becoming inebriated. These purple stones are crystals with a vibration that is highly useful to assist meditation, as it will calm the emotions. As this is one of the most popular crystals, this stone is commonly carved into Amethyst crystal skulls, and they are also powerful to use to do a crystal skull meditation.
Quartz. Learn about the crystal meanings and metaphysical and healing properties lore of quartz including power, energy and protection. Alternate Names & Name Spellings: Rock Crystal, Crystal Quartz, Universal Crystal, Clear Quartz (which is the stone behind all the shades and colors)
Color meaning: your health & senses Color Quiz Red meaning Pink meaning Brown meaning Orange meaning Gold meaning Yellow meaning Green meaning Blue meaning Purple meaning Indigo meaning White meaning Black meaning Gray meaning. Color meaning: your health & senses. Color Quiz. Red meaning. Purple has been used to symbolize magic and mystery, as well as royalty. Being the combination of red and blue, the warmest and coolest colors, purple is believed to be the ideal color. Most children love the color purple
Structure [edit]. Amethyst is a purple variety of quartz (SiO 2) and owes its violet color to irradiation, iron impurities (in some cases in conjunction with transition element impurities), and the presence of trace elements, which result in complex crystal lattice substitutions. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Amethyst (disambiguation) . Amethyst is a violet variety of quartz often used in jewelry. The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. drunkenness
The Mineral amethyst. Amethyst is a well known mineral and gemstone. It is the purple variety of the mineral Quartz, and its most valuable and prized variety. Its name derives from the Greek amethystos, which means not drunken, as Amethyst in antiquity was thought to ward off drunkenness
Learn about amethyst, its crystal meanings, metaphysical and healing properties, and how it got its name. Faceted Amethyst Example. Alternate Names & Name Spellings: Sobriety Stone, light Amethyst is also called Cape Amethyst at times. 
Hailed as “the most colorful mineral in the world,” Fluorite forms in a wide variety of hues, typically purple, green, yellow, blue, and in pure form-colorless, though specimens of pink, red, white, brown and black also occur. It is frequently multi-colored with bands, or zones, of color that intermingle. Fluorite is composed of calcium fluoride and is a member of the Halide family. It is transparent to translucent with a vitreous luster, and crystallizes in well-formed isometric cubes, nodules, clusters, or in massive form.