Forming proper plurals of medical words is one of the more challenging aspects of medical transcription. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that even dictating physicians frequently have difficulty with plurals. They cannot always be counted on to dictate the correct plural form. 8. The plural form of the term “femur” is “femora.”. 9. The plural form of “cornu” is “cornua.”. 10. The plural form of “paries” is “parietes.”. The chart below is designed to provide basic rules of thumb for forming plurals.
Foraminal Stenosis. Foraminal stenosis is a narrowing of the spinal foramen, the hole through which passes a spinal nerve as it exits the spine (foramen basically just means hole). It is usually a form of degenerative spine disease which occurs slowly over time with wear and tear of the spinal column. Because the foramen is a relatively small area, anything impinging on that area can cause foraminal stenosis is pinch the nerves inside the foramen. While foraminal stenosis generally occurs in the setting of other degenerative disease of the spine, it can present as the primary problem in some patients.
A foramen exists at each level of the spine with one on each side. At each level, a spinal nerve, a nerve coming to or from the spinal cord, passes through the foramen. Because the foramen is a relatively small area, anything impinging on that area can cause foraminal stenosis is pinch the nerves inside the foramen. Insurance Carriers. Foraminal stenosis is a narrowing of the spinal foramen, the hole through which passes a spinal nerve as it exits the spine (foramen basically just means hole). It is usually a form of degenerative spine disease which occurs slowly over time with wear and tear of the spinal colum
sacral foramina, posterior eight passages (four on each side) on the dorsal surface of the sacrum for the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. Scarpa's foramen an opening behind the upper medial incisor, for the nasopalatine nerve. foramen rotun´dum a round opening in the great wing of the sphenoid for the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve. sacral foramina, anterior eight passages (four on each side) on the pelvic surface of the sacrum for the an
2. the foramen, or opening, in the midline of the palate in the region where the premaxilla and maxillae join, which is situated palatal to the maxillary central incisors; contains branches of the right and left nasopalatine vessels and nerve. n an opening in the occipital bone through which the spinal cord enters the spinal column. foramen, mandibular, n an opening on the medial aspect of the vertical ramus of the mandible approximately midway between the mandibular and gonial notches; may be located posterior to the middle of the ramus.
ethmoidal foramina, fora´mina ethmoida´lia small openings in the ethmoid bone at the junction of the medial wall with the roof of the orbit, the anterior transmitting the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve and the anterior ethmoid vessels, the posterior transmitting the posterior ethmoid vessels. foramen rotun´dum a round opening in the great wing of the sphenoid for the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve. sacral foramina, anterior eight passages (four on each side) on the pelvic surface of the sacrum for the anterior branches of the sacral nerves.
A foramen exists at each level of the spine with one on each side. At each level, a spinal nerve, a nerve coming to or from the spinal cord, passes through the foramen. Because the foramen is a relatively small area, anything impinging on that area can cause foraminal stenosis is pinch the nerves inside the foramen. While foraminal stenosis generally occurs in the setting of other degenerative disease of the spine, it can present as the primary problem in some patients.
An irregular plural noun is a noun that is made plural in some other way. The … noun city is made plural by dropping the ending-y and adding-ies to the end of the word. The plural form for city is cities, an irregular plural. A noun without a plural is one in which the singular and the plural are the same for example Sheep research Many abstract concepts (bravery, patriotism) fall under this c … ategory. Further more, most specific locations are nouns that are never plural, such as France, Chicago, or Stonehenge.
Yes, most nouns have a singular and a plural form. A plural noun is  a word for two or more people, places, or things (one apple or two  apples; one egg or a dozen eggs; one … child or two children).    There are some nouns that are called uncountable (or mass nouns). A noun without a plural is one in which the singular and the plural are the same for example Sheep research Many abstract concepts (bravery, patriotism) fall under this c … ategory. Further more, most specific locations are nouns that are never plural, such as France, Chicago, or Stonehenge.