1 Later, once the swelling subsides, after using cold compress for 2 to 3 days, place warm compress. 2  Dip a fresh clean cloth in hot water, squeeze it out and place it on the black eye. 3  This helps to remove the blood clots and enables easy blood flow. 4  This also helps to heal the bruising and blackening of the eye. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: a normal black eye takes not much over a week, a big one (almost literally BLACK) can take up to a month to disappear completely scratches on the face heal a bit faster then scratches on your arms or legs, but it varies from person to person stop getting into fights. Source(s):
Treatment of a Black Eye – How Long It Takes To Heal. If you have sustained an injury that has caused a black eye, the first thing you should do is put an ice pack on it; this will help to minimize the pain and swelling. If an ice pack cannot be found, a bag of frozen peas will do.
Most minor bruises will heal nicely in a few days, but I've seen some shiners that stuck around for much longer. I'd say around five or six days to two weeks. It depends how badly your eye is hurt. If it just got clunked around a little, it will most likely take not too long to go away. However, if the eye was injured badly, it might take a week or two to fully recover.
A black eye can sometimes take as long as two weeks to heal completely, and a severe black eye can take even longer. Unless you’re planning to stay home for as long as it takes your black eye to heal (or to wear sun glasses everywhere you go), you may want to consider concealing it with makeup. If you have sustained an injury that has caused a black eye, the first thing you should do is put an ice pack on it; this will help to minimize the pain and swelling. If an ice pack cannot be found, a bag of frozen peas will do.
Usually it takes about 7-10 days to heal. If you put olive oil (don't get it in your eyes, but it won't hurt them other that make an oily film to your vision) on the bruised area, it will cut the healing time in half. Do it about 3 times during the first day it happens, and you will see some fast results. Also don't apply ice directly to the skin, but place a cloth in between. Hold it directly over the eye allowing the ice pack to touch the nose as well. Don't press down into the eye socket. The swelling should go down in about 3 days and the coloration might last up to 10 days. Maybe give him a simple eye test.
Apply ice to the area around your eye. Apply a cold compress, washcloth filled with ice, or a bag of frozen vegetables to the swollen area in 10-minute intervals. 1  You should take 10-minute breaks in between each 10-minute application. 2  Begin this treatment immediately and continue it for 24 to 48 hours. 3  Press on the skin around the eye, not on the eye itself. 1 Before you get the swelling to calm down, you should also avoid forcing your eye to stay open for a prolonged period of time. 2  You should avoid lying down on the side of your body with the black eye. 3  The pressure you apply to the area by lying on it can make the black eye last longer.
After one or two days of getting a black eye, you need to apply warm compresses. This will help increase blood flow to the tissues around the eye and accelerate the healing process. 1  Dip a clean cloth in warm water, and squeeze out the excess water. 2  Put the warm cloth on the affected eye until the cloth becomes cool. Arnica. Arnica is an herb that can reduce the swelling that often occurs with a black eye. It will also help heal the eye muscles and any other tissue that may have been damaged. Begin using arnica as soon as possible to prevent the bruise from getting worse.
depends on how bad it is... if its only minor than id guess probably about a month, if damage is well done than at least two or three months at the least.. a few years ago i g … ot a pretty bad black eye and it lasted for three an a half months but yeah black eyes will definitly take some time to heal. I'd say around five or six days to two weeks. It depends how badly your eye is hurt. If it just got clunked around a little, it will most likely take not too long to go away. However, if the eye was injured badly, it might take a week or two to fully recover.