Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Dear (insert name of invitee) Thank you for your invitation to (insert the name of event). Unfortunately (insert name of boss) is unable to attend due to a prior engagement. (This second part you need to add something about best wishes for the event) eg. 
Especially when the person is pushy. Let's say a friend wants me to come to a dinner or a party or a day trip, and I'm not interested in going, for whatever reason. But I don't have other plans at that time, so I can't truthfully say, Sorry I'd love to go, but my sister's birthday party is that night, or something. In reality, I'd prefer to spend that time relaxing at home by myself and reading a book. So I say, Sorry, I can't make it, and I don't give a
1 Saying you are too tired is not an acceptable excuse. 2  If you declined an invitation to a party you should understand that other friends may have accepted the invitation. 3  It is in very poor taste for you to sit at a bar or other party and text or call your friends at the party you chose not to attend. Warnings. 1  Do not be rude or mean when you say no to an invitation. 2  Do not repeatedly reject invitations from the same individual or group. 3  If you have accepted an invitation, you have made a commitment to attend. 4
Once you receive an invitation to a function, it is quite essential that you think of all the possible ways to make it to the function. If it is a family function then you can ask your siblings, your wife or your children to represent in case you can’t make it. Timely Response. This is indeed vital as the host has to make necessary arrangements which depend upon the number of guests that they can expect. Honesty Still Pays. When you receive an invitation, you should figure out the chances of attending it and provide your reasons honestly.
“Why that’s a hundred miles away. That’s a long way to go just to eat.” William Faulkner, the author, declined an invitation to dinner at the White House in 1962 with this comment. While most of us don’t get invitations to White House dinners, we often struggle with how to graciously decline an invitation. For example, if you are invited to a dinner party on a weeknight and have to work early the next morning, it is perfectly acceptable for you to say so. Another example might be an invitation when you have already made plans with someone else. Again, explaining that you have previously scheduled plans is very reasonable.
Five Methods: Excuses you should never make Refusing Over Text Refusing by Email or a Written Letter Refusing Over the Phone Refusing in Person. Everyone has experienced an invitation they'd rather turn down. Being asked to visit someone's house when just don't want to can be awkward. But whether it's to dine, to have a playdate for your children or for some other reason, there is a polite way to decline. Ad. 1. Avoid ever blaming your inability to come on your own or someone else's poor health. Saying Johnny had a cold last week or My gout has really been bothering me lately or Sorry! Can't do lunch.
Remember that declining an invitation doesn't mean you're rejecting the person who sent it to you. It's simply a statement that you are unable to attend whatever you've been invited to. Here are some tips on how to turn down an invitation in the most polite way: 1  Don't ignore the invitation. 2  Putting the invitation aside to deal with later isn't good for you or the person who sent it. 3  She needs to know whether or not you'll be there
Wojciech Burda/iStock/Getty Images. When you receive an invitation -- either verbally or via your inbox, mailbox or voicemail -- respond promptly. Whether your answer is yay or nay, it's inconsiderate to let the invitation simmer. Keep It Short. When you say no, there's no need to explain why, states Elizabeth Howell of the Emily Post Institute. In fact, Howell claims it is rude for a host to push for an explanation. Just keep your response short and factual. Make it clear you appreciate being invited and say you won't be coming