DNA Polymerase. The enzyme that catalyzes DNA replication is DNA Polymerase. Don't confuse this with any other enzyme (meaning RNA polymerase-DNA polymerase is used to replicate DNA when the cell is undergoing mitosis or meiosis, RNA polymerase catalyzes transcription).
In other words, DNA polymerase is an enzyme that synthesizes a product by interpreting the existing DNA strand as a template and produces the complementary sequence of the template into a new strand. 3. DNA polymerases necessitate the presence of a primer to start synthesis.
The enzyme helicase catalyzes the unwinding and the breaking of H-bonds to create a separated section of DNA. The open section is known as a replication bubble and in contains two replication forks. Many different replication bubbles are formed along the DNA structure.
DNA polymerase is the enzyme that catalyzes the reactions involved in DNA synthesis. In the early 1980s, scientists found bacteria living around natural steam vents. It turned out that these organisms, called thermus aquaticus, had a DNA polymerase that was stable and functional at extreme levels of heat.
DNA Replication. DNA replicates by the semiconservative model of replication. This model states that during replication of double stranded DNA, the two strands separate and each separate strand is then used as a template to make a new strand.
The enzyme that catalyzes DNA replication is known as DNA  polymerase. Helicase is another enzyme that is used in the process  of DNA replication.
As DNA polymerase moves along the template strand, each new nucleotide provides a 5’ hydroxyl group for the next reaction to occur. Primers are short sequences that allow the initiation of DNA synthesis. DNA polymerase adds dNTP monomers in the 3’ to 5’ direction.
DNA polymerase is an enzyme. This enzyme synthesizes a new DNA strand from an old DNA template and also works to repair the DNA in order to avoid mutations. DNA polymerase catalyzes the formation of the phosphodiester bond which makes up the backbone of DNA molecules.