This is not the only set of blood tests the doctor does to determine a liver problem...there is also the liver function tests: (Bilirubin, INR, Albumin, Pt, PTT)...These tests show how well the cells are able to do the many functions, the liver does as a whole, to keep the body well. This is known as Liver failure. Then there are also the liver viral blood tests. Viruses like Hepatitis A,B,C,etc can enter the body and use the liver cells to replicate itself. The doctor can tell if the patient has the virus and how much of the virus is there (viral load).
Thank you for the query. It takes from month to 3 months for the liver enzymes to normalize. However it all depends how long you have bee drinking and what are your liver regeneration abilities. If you have had an alcohol occasionally, month is enough to normalize liver enzymes. If you have been drinking heavily, it may not be enough. Hope this will help. Feel free to ask further questions.
No one here can tell you how long it will take for your liver cells to heal from this and for the enzymes to return to a normal level. Stopping the alcohol is the best to do...but it depends on how long you have drank alcohol, the amount of alcohol, and more how fast the enzymes may be normal range again. People who overconsume alcohol does give the liver time to convert the alcohol completely. It goes through many steps to do this. This is known as Liver failure. Then there are also the liver viral blood tests. Viruses like Hepatitis A,B,C,etc can enter the body and use the liver cells to replicate itself. The doctor can tell if the patient has the virus and how much of the virus is there (viral load).
Best Answer: The liver enzymes are made by the liver cells. However, only one enzyme is specifically made by the liver and that is the ALT. The other liver enzymes (AST,ALP, and GGT) are made by other organs, also. This is known as Liver failure. Then there are also the liver viral blood tests. Viruses like Hepatitis A,B,C,etc can enter the body and use the liver cells to replicate itself. The doctor can tell if the patient has the virus and how much of the virus is there (viral load).
Next. way to return the liver back to normal. and how long does it take. Update: its for a liver that is double (on the range of numbers from the doctors so double the number from what it should be) from eating to much all the time (17stone) and am starting to lose weight to 10stone i hope. and i have stoped drinking. Best Answer: The liver is very resilient and a very tough organ. It takes lots of abuse before it becomes too damaged to function. As long as you don't have any viral hepatitis or other liver diseases, your liver enzymes should return to within normal limits.
Confidence votes 263K. It takes approximately twenty-four to forty-eight hours for elevated liver enzymes to return to normal after cessation of alcohol consumption. For smaller individuals, it can take even longer. How long does your liver take to recover from alcohol? Too broad of a question. An 18 year old who has spent 6 months drinking alcohol non-stop will most likely take a lot less time to get their liver to recover from alcohol than … a 50 year old who has been drinking everyday since the age of 18, for example.
Premium Questions. if enzymes stay elevated is a biopsy. My questions are: 1. How long does it take for mild enzyme elevations ...Started having mild elevations of liver enzymes AST, ALT, and GGT starting sometime late 2013 ... Not taking any drugs. how long my liver would take to recover to a safe level if I cut my drinking to 3 days a week ...I ve just had a blood test and my doctor says I have high liver enzymes which are a cause of too ...