Your credit card company pays the merchant when the check is cashed, and the amount of the check is deducted from your card's credit line. Write a check to yourself and cash it -- you're now using a convenience check as a cash advance. The interest rate charged on convenience checks tends to be higher than the interest rate charged for credit card purchases, and you also will be charged a fee, typically 3 percent or 4 percent of the amount that you borrow, says Linda Sherry, director of national priorities at Consumer Action.
How long does it take for my credit card application(s) to be processed? From the time you apply for a CIBC credit card online, it takes approximately 2-3 weeks to receive and process information about your application. You will be notified by mail on the status of your application.
Billing Cycle:Customer billing cycles also control how long it takes to receive news of a credit card refund. For example, if you have an account that ends on the 29th day of each month, you may receive your card statement on the 5th day of the next month. 
That all depends on the card and the circumstances surrounding it. Most credit card companies will quote a time frame of 7-10 days for receiving a new card in the mail. This time is usually overestimated though as most cards are sent out the same day or the next day, and arrive in 4-5 days
If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. A revolving credit account—such as a credit card—that is paid as agreed can stay on your credit report forever, as long as the account remains open. Certain state laws may also impact how long information stays on your credit report. For current New York residents, for example, paid collections will remain on your credit report for only five years, while unpaid collections will remain for the full seven years.
The term 'instant' is a slight misnomer. Even if you get approved right away you will still have to wait 7 to 10 days to receive your new credit card through the post. Although most card companies do genuinely offer instant approval, some will only give a decision in principle. Forewarned is forearmed, as they say, so the next time you apply for a credit card you should check the card provider's application criteria first (you can do this via our credit card comparison tables) and ensure that you are eligible.
Our Simple Calculator can help you calculate approximately how long it will take to pay down your credit card debt based on a single interest rate. If you have multiple rates, such as a promotional rate, a balance transfer or a cash advance rate, please use the Advanced Calculator. Simple Calculator Approximate time 1-2 minutes Calculate approximately how long it will take to pay down your current credit card debt, based on a monthly payment that you can afford.
A convenience check, also called a credit card check, is linked to a consumer's credit card account and can be used to make purchases or take cash advances with the credit card. To make a purchase, simply write a check for the purchase amount to a merchant and sign the check. The interest rate charged on convenience checks tends to be higher than the interest rate charged for credit card purchases, and you also will be charged a fee, typically 3 percent or 4 percent of the amount that you borrow, says Linda Sherry, director of national priorities at Consumer Action.