Continuously-variable. Derailleur gears. Hub gears. Tiptronic is a type of discrete automatic transmission developed by Porsche and used in its vehicles and those of its licensees. Though Tiptronic transmissions allow the driver a certain measure of discrete control, the Tiptronic design is implemented using a torque converter like other automatic transmissions. A Tiptronic is not a computer controlled clutch-manual transmission or semi-automatic transmission.
Report Abuse. A tiptronic transmission can operate in the same manner as a conventional type of automatic transmission, but also offers the driver an additional method of manually overriding the automatic shift changes. 
Purpose. A Tiptronic transmission is an automatic transmission that can be controlled like a manual transmission. In a standard automatic transmission, a computer selects which gear the car should operate in, but a Tiptronic transmission gives this control to the driver. In ordinary driving, the Tiptronic transmission functions like an automatic transmission and can shift gears without driver control. When the driver activates the Tiptronic system, the transmission ceases to shift automatically and relies on the driver to change gears.
Hub gears. Tiptronic is a type of discrete automatic transmission developed by Porsche and used in its vehicles and those of its licensees. A Tiptronic is not a computer controlled clutch-manual transmission or semi-automatic transmission. Most Tiptronic implementations still make some shifts automatically, primarily to protect the engine and
Tiptronic is a type of discrete automatic transmission developed by Porsche and used in its vehicles. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Tiptronic is a type of discrete automatic transmission developed by Porsche and used in its vehicles and those of its licensees.
A Tiptronic transmission can operate just as the common type of automatic transmission, but it also allows the driver to override the automatic mode by moving the shift lever into a second (Tiptronic) shift gate equipped with two spring-loaded positions: upshift and downshift. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Tiptronic is a type of discrete automatic transmission developed by Porsche and used in its vehicles and those of its licensees.
Manumatic, a portmanteau of the words manual and automatic, is a term referring to a class of automotive transmission. Manumatic refers to an automatic transmission that allows convenient driver control of gear selection. For most of automotive history, automatic transmissions already allowed some control of gear selection using the console or column shifter. Some manumatic and semi-automatic transmissions allow the driver to have full control of gear selection, while many will intervene by shifting automatically at the low end and/or high end of the engine's operating range, depending on throttle position.
Best Answer: Tiptronic is Porsche's name for their automatic transmission with manual control option. In drive, you just gas and go, so to speak. In the manual gate is a + (forward) position, and a - (rearward) position. 
Though Tiptronic transmissions allow the driver a certain measure of discrete control, the Tiptronic design is implemented using a torque converter like other automatic transmissions. A Tiptronic is not a computer controlled clutch-manual transmission or semi-automatic transmission. Most Tiptronic implementations still make some shifts automatically, primarily to protect the engine and transmission.