Craic. Crack or craic is fun, enjoyment, abandonment, or lighthearted mischief; often in the context of drinking or music. This sense of the word crack is found in Irish English, Scottish English, and Geordie as well as Mackem in North East England. In Ireland the spelling craic is now more common than crack. Irish word for fun/enjoyment that has been brought into the English language. usu. when mixed with alcohol and/or music. 'Bhi craic agus ceol againn' : We had fun and music. Fun doesn't really cut it though. General banter, good times had by all.
Craic. Craic, or crack, is a term for news, gossip, fun, entertainment, and enjoyable conversation, particularly prominent in Ireland. It is often used with the definite article – the craic. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: craic (Noun). fun, especially through enjoyable company, a pleasant conversation. Origin: Reborrowed from English crack, in turn from crak.
Craic (pronoucned crack) is a Gaelic term which essentially translates into a good time.. The term is commonly used in reference to gatherings and parties where there is … singing, dancing, drinking, and general joviality. To have had a good craic is to say you had lots of fun. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Plucas. Confidence votes 31.4K. Craic means fun or enjoyment. But it is not Irish. It is a recent modification of the spelling of crack to give it an Irish appearance. There never was historically a word craic which meant fun or enjoyment in the Gaelic language
It is often used with the definite article – the craic. The word has an unusual history; the English crack was borrowed into Irish as craic in the mid-20th century and the Irish spelling was then reborrowed into English. Under either spelling, the term has great cultural currency and significance in Ireland. At first the craic form was uncommon outside of Irish, even in an Irish context. Barney Rush's 1960s song The Crack Was Ninety in the Isle of Man  does not use the Irish-language spelling, neither is it used in Christy Moore 's 1978 version.
The origins and history of the term are a little murky. Although it's become increasingly associated with the Irish sense of fun, the craic is not originally an Irish language term, said Carmel McColgan, a native of Donegal in Ireland's Ulster province. She now teaches at Fayetteville-Manlius High School (and has taught Irish in her spare time). I have to say, 'No, no, no -- it doesn't mean what you think,'  said Johnston, whose Irish credentials include playing with local Celtic rock bands and co-hosting the weekly Irish Power Hour radio show on TK99.
True craic requires lively conversation and good times, in the best of company. Craic is usually associated with Irish pubs, but alcohol is not a necessary ingredient, to experience the social essence of craic. Music, on the other hand, is widely known to enhance the craic. A speaker’s meaning, when using the word craic, is totally dependent on phrasing
Craic  (/kraek/ KRæK), krak  or , crack is a term for, news, gossip, fun, entertainment and enjoyable, conversation particularly prominent In. Ireland it is often used with the definite – article the. craic At first the craic form was uncommon outside of Irish, even in an Irish context. Barney Rush's 1960s song The Crack Was Ninety in the Isle of Man  does not use the Irish-language spelling, neither is it used in Christy Moore 's 1978 version.
Now, 'craic' is interpreted as a specifically and quintessentially Irish form of fun. The adoption of the Gaelic spelling has reinforced the sense that this is an independent word (homophone) rather than a separate sense of the original word (polysemy). At first the craic form was uncommon outside of Irish, even in an Irish context. Barney Rush's 1960s song The Crack Was Ninety in the Isle of Man  does not use the Irish-language spelling, neither is it used in Christy Moore 's 1978 version.