In this article. Estrus, or heat, is the stage in a female dog 's reproductive cycle during which she becomes receptive to mating with males. At this time, estrogen levels first increase and then sharply decrease, and mature eggs are released from the ovaries. Ideally, your dog should be spayed before she enters her first heat cycle. 
Dogs will have their first estrus cycle when they reach puberty. Estrus is the stage of the reproductive cycle in which the dog can become pregnant; sometimes a dog that is in estrus is said to be in heat or in season. On average, puberty or sexual maturity is reached at about 6 months of age, but this can vary by breed. Although this can vary with the individual dog, on average a dog will be 'in heat' for 2-3 weeks. The onset of estrus is characterized by swelling of the external vulva. Next, the dog will develop a vaginal discharge. Estrus ends when the discharge completely disappears and the vulva returns to its normal size.
How often does a female dog come into heat? Most dogs come into heat twice per year, or about every six months, although the interval can vary between breeds, and from dog to dog. Small breed dogs may cycle three times per year, while giant breed dogs may only cycle once every 12-18 months. Although this can vary with the individual dog, on average a dog will be 'in heat' for 2-3 weeks. The onset of estrus is characterized by swelling of the external vulva. Next, the dog will develop a vaginal discharge. Estrus ends when the discharge completely disappears and the vulva returns to its normal size.
Your dog has come into heat. It is most common for the dam to come into heat at six months of age and then every six months thereafter. Some dams come in at four months and some at twelve months for their first heat, while some are every six months and some every five to 11 months. 
Reproduction in dogs-season, heat, oestrus, pregnancy tests. Print this page. Puberty or sexual maturity in the female dog usually occurs around six months of age. The smaller breeds tend to go into oestrus or heat earlier and some females can have their first heat cycle as early as four months of age. 
Females go into heat about 6 months of age and will have a cycle every 6 months. There is no such thing as a tampon for dog use however there are diaper pants that you can use with pads inside them. If the dog is going to be bred, it is best to wait until after the third cycle or when the dog is about 2 years of age. 
A dog owner should have an idea when the pet will go into heat. The reproductive cycle varies from breed to breed. Generally puberty will occur as early as 6 to 12 months in small breeds and as late as 2 years in large breeds. Some dogs would come into heat earlier than six months and can get pregnant in the first heat although it is advisable to breed the dog when it is about 2 years old or after the dog has gone into the 2nd or 3rd heat.
First heat can vary greatly dog to dog. The youngest is about six months of age though sometimes a female will come into season younger. First heat can start as late as 12 or even 14 months of age or later in rare cases. Again, it can vary dog to dog. A dog can get pregnant in her first cycle. Ideally, she should not be bred until about 24 months when she is out of adolescence. In addition, she should not be bred unless she will truly add to the quality of her breed in form, function and health. Breeding ethics is a whole other discussion!
Dogs in heat need special care. Estrus or “heat” is part of the reproductive cycle in female dogs. Dogs come into their first heat between about 6 and 24 months of age, with small breeds coming into heat sooner and large breeds later. Dogs typically have two heats per year, and each lasts about 18-24 days. The first signs of heat are typically a swollen vulva and a bloody vaginal discharge. The best way to control the heat cycle is to have your female dog spayed at 6 months of age. There is no health reason why female dogs need to experience a first heat or ever have puppies. In fact, spaying before the first heat cycle dramatically reduces the risk of mammary cancer later in life.