A patent application is a request pending at a patent office for the grant of a patent for the invention described and claimed by that application. An application consists of a description of the invention (the patent specification), together with official forms and correspondence relating to the application. In order to obtain the grant of a patent, a person, either legal or natural, must file an application at a patent office with the jurisdiction to grant a patent in the geographic area over which coverage is required.
A provisional application for patent (provisional application) is a U.S. national application filed in the USPTO under 35 U.S.C. §111(b) . A provisional application is not required to have a formal patent claim or an oath or declaration. 
Patent Application Fees. For utility patents, the small entity fees include a $165 filing fee ($82 if filing electronically), as well as a search fee of $270 and an examination fee of $110. For large entities, the filing fees are a $330 filing fee, a search fee of $540, and an examination fee of $220. Paying USPTO Fees. The third major cost when preparing and filing a patent application are the fees that are paid to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). These fees are broken down for specific purposes and activities. You can pay these fees by personal check, money order, or credit card.
A fairly typical quote for a nonprovisional patent application (through filing) for a software innovation is $8,500 for attorneys fees plus the cost of the nonprovisional filing fee (typically $800) and the cost of any professional illustrations desired (typically $300 to $500). Anything that is not included in the provisional patent application is not considered to be a part of your invention. For this reason you may hear patent attorneys explain that a provisional patent application is helpful to protect whatever is included in the application (as I said above).
For large entities, the filing fees are a $220 filing fee, a search fee of $100, and an examination fee of $140. In addition, both small and large entities must pay more fees for a design patent application that exceeds 100 pages. Paying USPTO Fees. The third major cost when preparing and filing a patent application are the fees that are paid to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). These fees are broken down for specific purposes and activities. You can pay these fees by personal check, money order, or credit card.
The filing fee is $130 for a small entity and drawings typically cost $100 to $125 per page, so a high quality provisional patent application for a mechanical or electrical device can typically be prepared and filed for $2,500 to $3,000. 1 Filing fee to the USPTO for provisional patent application = $130 (small entity). 2  Nonprovisional patent application based off provisional filing = $10,000 to $12,000. 3  Filing fee to the USPTO for nonprovisional patent application = $800 to $1,250 (small entity).
Software —. A fairly typical quote for a provisional patent application (through filing) for a software innovation is $5,000 for attorneys fees plus the cost of the provisional filing fee (typically $130) and the cost of any professional illustrations desired (typically $300 to $500). Anything that is not included in the provisional patent application is not considered to be a part of your invention. For this reason you may hear patent attorneys explain that a provisional patent application is helpful to protect whatever is included in the application (as I said above).
In Canada, maintenance fees for a patent application, or a patent issued from the application, are due on each anniversary of the filing date of the application, beginning on the second anniversary. If the maintenance fee is not paid (by the applicant or agent of record) by the due date with respect to a patent application, the application is deemed abandoned.
A fairly typical quote for a provisional patent application (through filing) for a moderately complex mechanical innovation is $2,5000 for attorneys fees plus the cost of the provisional filing fee (typically $130) and the cost of any professional illustrations desired (typically $200 to $300). Anything that is not included in the provisional patent application is not considered to be a part of your invention. For this reason you may hear patent attorneys explain that a provisional patent application is helpful to protect whatever is included in the application (as I said above).