Plague is believed to be the cause of the Black Death that swept through Asia, Europe, and Africa in the 14th century and killed an estimated 50 million people. This was about 25% to 60% of the European population. Because the plague killed so many of the working population, wages rose due to the demand for labor. Bubonic plague is one of three types of bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis. Three to seven days after exposure to the bacteria flu like symptoms develop. This includes fever, headaches, and vomiting.
This was a widespread epidemic of the Bubonic Plague that passed from Asia and through Europe in the mid fourteenth century. The first signs of the Black Plague in Europe were present around the fall of 1347. In the span of three years, the Black Death killed one third of all the people in Europe. 
The Great Plague of 1665/1666 was the last major outbreak of bubonic plague in Great Britain. The last recorded death from plague came in 1679, and it was removed as a specific category in the Bills of Mortality after 1703. The 1664–66 epidemic was on a far smaller scale than the earlier Black Death pandemic; it was remembered afterwards as the great plague mainly because it was the last widespread outbreak of bubonic plague in England during the 400-year timespan of the Second Pandemic.
Bubonic Plague or Black Plague started in Europe around 1347. It was a terrible disease that was carried out with black rats and fleas. This terrible disease was affected the Medieval society. It was a terrible because so many peasants died and that nobody was left to farm the land and do the daily work. Answer to Bubonic Plaque The Bubonic Plague started in 1347. It was a terrible disease that was carried out with Fleas on rats. This terrible disease was affected the Medieval …
Black Death or the Great Plague. The second pandemic, widely known as the Black Death or the Great Plague, originated in China in 1334 and spread along the great trade routes to Constantinople and then to Europe, where it claimed an estimated 60% of the European population (Benedictow, 2008). Entire towns were wiped out. 
The bubonic plague, or Black Death, may have originated in ancient Egypt, according to a new study. This is the first time the plague's origins in Egypt have been backed up by archaeological evidence, said Eva Panagiotakopulu, who made the discovery. 
Confidence votes 94.7K. The Bubonic Plague originated in China. It was spread by the fleas carried by rats going aboard ships and they were transported to Italy, Greece and France, when the rats left the ships entering cities and gave us the Bubonic Plague. The Bubonic Plague spread from China and East Asia to Europe through the Silk Road and arrived in the Ukraine. It also spread from fleas upon rats aboard merchant ships, and i … s believed to have spread from Sicily. From both these places, the disease spread enormously and claimed over half of the population of Europe.
By; Jessica Paternoster. The Bubonic Plague, also known as the Black Death, originated from across the Black Sea. Boats docking in Italian ports carried rats and the rats carried fleas, or the hosts of the disease. The rats could stay alive with the infection still small. Though when it multiplied the rat died. 
In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes. Bubonic plague is one of three types of bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis. Three to seven days after exposure to the bacteria flu like symptoms develop. This includes fever, headaches, and vomiting.