Preparation. Turn off your Wolf gas cooktop burners and wait for the cooktop to cool completely before cleaning. Fill a sink with hot water and enough mild detergent to make the water soapy. Place a lint-free microfiber cloth and a non-abrasive scrubbing pad in the water.
Place the grates in a sink of hot, soapy water and let soak for 15-20 minutes. For tougher stains, add a cup of sudsy ammonia to the water. Make sure grates are thoroughly dried after each cleaning.
Ratings. The 30-inch gas cooktop with cast iron grates and gas-on-glass surface offers control and flexibility to spare. The full-width cast iron grates resist wear and cover the entire surface, so your largest cookware is not restricted to just one or two burners.
1 Soak grates and caps in a slightly diluted solution of liquid cleanser and scour with a non-metallic soap filled pad. 2  Place the grates and caps in a sealed bag or covered container with 1/4 cup of ammonia. 3  Let sit 3 hrs up to overnight to loosen soil. 4  Rinse thoroughly and dry with a soft, clean cloth.
1 Carbona® 2 in 1 Oven Rack and Grill Cleaner is an easy way to clean oven racks (excluding full-extension easy glide racks). 2  Follow Carbona's instructions on the cleaner packaging. 3  Carbona 2 in 1 video. 4  Purchase Carbona through the website link above.
Then just rinse the grates and/or burners in a sink to remove the any remaining ammonia and you’re good to go! This is definitely my go-to way of cleaning grill grates and stove top burners from now on! For safety precautions, wear rubber gloves and safety glasses when working with ammonia.
1 Allow the grates to sit in the ammonia and water mixture overnight. 2  Open each bag the next day and carefully dispose of the ammonia solution according to label directions. 3  A clean sink or bath tub is a great spot for this. 4  Scrub any remaining spots with the scrubbing pad. 5  They should come off easily.
1 For burned-on soil: 2  Soak grates and caps in a slightly diluted solution of liquid cleanser and scour with a non-metallic soap filled pad. 3  Place the grates and caps in a sealed bag or covered container with 1/4 cup of ammonia. 4  Let sit 3 hrs up to overnight to loosen soil.
Many of my Wolf appliance customers in Westchester County and beyond ask what are the best methods to clean Wolf kitchen appliances such as the cooktops, wall ovens and ranges. Curto’s Appliances has compiled a tip list to help you clean and protect these significant kitchen investments.