The escolar, Lepidocybium flavobrunneum, a species of fish in the family Gempylidae, is found in deep (200–885 m) tropical and temperate waters around the world.
The escolar is dark brown, growing darker with age until it is quite black. It is a fast-swimming fish with a prominent lateral keel and four to six finlets after the anal and second dorsal fins. Escolar can grow to over 2 m in length.
The escolar (Lepidocybium flavobrunneum) is a snake mackerel, the only species in the genus Lepidocybium. It is found in deep (200-885 m) tropical and temperate waters around the world. It is banned in some places of the world for eating because of potential adverse effects of consumption.
Escolar, Lepidocybium flavobrunneum: The Escolar has a uniform grey-brown appearance, but large, more mature fish are black in color. The Escolar is characterized by a long pointed oval head with large eyes and large mouts.
Escolar has been mislabeled or otherwise confused with the following fish: Atlantic cod, oilfish (related to escolar but in a different genus), rudderfish, blue cod, black cod, king tuna, grouper, orange roughy, sea bass, gemfish, Chilean sea bass, albacore tuna, and white tuna.
Escolar is the most controversial fish that you are likely to find in your fish market. This firm, white fleshed fish has an incredibly rich flavor, often described as 'succulent', or a fattier version of swordfish.
Photo Credit AS_Fotos/iStock/Getty Images. Escolar is a creamy fish that melts in your mouth. It's found worldwide in tropical and temperate waters, but it can be difficult to purchase outside of big cities due to availability.
The governments of Canada, Sweden and Denmark require that all escolar come with warning labels. The FDA lifted the escolar ban in 1992 because the fish is nontoxic-sure, it causes embarrassing things to happen in your pants, but it won't hurt or kill you. In spite of all this, escolar is indeed very buttery and delicious, and should be enjoyed, but never in portions larger than six ounces.