Importance of acetylcholine for the peripheral nervous system: in the peripheral nervous system, acetylecholine plays a role of the neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular connection between skeletal muscle and motor nerve. It acts to effectively stimulate the muscle movement (Waymire, n.d.). Functions of Acetylcholine. 1  Acetylcholine performs as a transmitter at all neuromuscular (nerve-to-skeletal muscle) connections. 2  It stimulates muscle contractions and, thus, all behavior.
APA dictionary of psychology. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. Waymire, J. Ph.D., Acetylcholine Neurotransmission (Section 1, Chapter 11) Neuroscience Online: An Electronic Textbook for the Neurosciences | Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy – The University of Texas Medical School at Houston. Functions of Acetylcholine. 1  Acetylcholine performs as a transmitter at all neuromuscular (nerve-to-skeletal muscle) connections. 2  It stimulates muscle contractions and, thus, all behavior.
Preface. Editorial Staff. Guide to the Dictionary. Quick Guide to Format. APA Dictionary of Psychology. Appendices. 1  Biographical Entries. 2  Institutional and Organizational Entries. 3  Psychological Test and Assessment Instrument Entries. 4  Psychotherapy and Psychotherapeutic Approach Entries. A Choice Outstanding Academic Title! A landmark dictionary of psychology that is at once erudite and accessible. Psychology is a restless discipline with an increasing subtlety of terminology, reflecting the science's evolving insights into the human condition.
Description. An invaluable resource from the largest association of professional psychologists in the world, the APA Concise Dictionary app covers concepts, processes, and therapies across 90 subareas of psychology. iTunes is the world's easiest way to organize and add to your digital media collection. We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To buy and download APA Concise Dictionary of Psychology by American Psychological Association, get iTunes now.
Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter—a chemical messenger that helps carry signals across a nerve synapse. It was the first neurotransmitter to be discovered, and has been heavily studied. It is also the most abundant neurotransmitter and is present in both the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system. Acetylcholine works together with the neurotransmitter dopamine to enable smooth movements. When there is an imbalance between acetylcholine and dopamine, movements can be shaky and uneven, a hallmark of Parkinson’s disease.
An invaluable and reliable source, the APA Concise Dictionary of Psychology answers the needs of the ever-increasing number of thoughtful readers from all walks of life who are interested in the ways that psychological science and knowledge cast light on the issues of everyday living. Mobile App. The mobile app version of the APA Concise Dictionary of Psychology puts all the power of a complete dictionary at your fingertips, along with great features that a print dictionary can’t offer. Download a free but limited version of the app today, or the full version for just $29.99
Ten years in the making and edited by a distinguished editorial board of nearly 100 psychological scholars, researchers and practitioners, the APA Dictionary of Psychology is destined to become the most authoritative reference of its kind. A Choice Outstanding Academic Title! A landmark dictionary of psychology that is at once erudite and accessible. Psychology is a restless discipline with an increasing subtlety of terminology, reflecting the science's evolving insights into the human condition.
A pre-purchase version that samples 100 entries from the full APA Concise Dictionary app, an invaluable resource from the largest association of professional psychologists in the world. iTunes is the world's easiest way to organize and add to your digital media collection. We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To download the free app APA Concise Dictionary of Psychology Free by American Psychological Association, get iTunes now.