Bombay blood group is the rarest blood group. First found in Bombay (Mumbai) in India, hence called Bombay blood group. It is observed to occur in 1 out of every 250,000 people except in parts of India where the incidence has been observed to be as much as 1 in every 7,600. It is also called the HH group. The peculiarity is that they do not express the H antigen
The h/h blood group, also known as Oh or the Bombay blood group, is a rare blood type. This blood phenotype was first discovered in Bombay, now known as Mumbai, in India, by Dr. Y. M. Bhende in 1952. 
This new blood group character is the H antigen and it is the building block for the antigens of the ABO blood group. Named for the city in which it was first discovered, the Bombay phenotype describes individuals whose RBCs lack the H antigen. If a person has blood group O, the H antigen remains unmodified. Therefore, the H antigen is present in the highest amounts in blood type O and in the least amounts in blood type AB. Two regions of the genome encode two enzymes with very similar substrate specificities—the H locus (FUT1) and the Se locus (FUT2).
Blood type (or blood group) is determined, in part, by the ABO blood group antigens present on red blood cells. A blood type (also called a blood group) is a classification of blood based on the presence or absence of inherited antigenic substances on the surface of red blood cells (RBCs). These antigens may be proteins, carbohydrates, glycoproteins, or glycolipids, depending on the blood group system
Blood type HH is different from the common blood types of A, B, AB, and O. Blood type HH does not contain the specific markers (or antigens) for the ABO blood group system. You can receive blood, but only from other people who have Bombay phenotype, type HH. Given that this condition is very rare, if you need an urgent blood transfusion, you will probably be unable to get it, as no blood bank would have any in stock.
Best Answer: First of all, relax. You aren't going to die, and you are not an alien. The reason that your doctor was surprised and called your parents is that blood type HH is a rare blood group also called Bombay Blood group-it is only present in about .0004% of the human population. You can receive blood, but only from other people who have Bombay phenotype, type HH. Given that this condition is very rare, if you need an urgent blood transfusion, you will probably be unable to get it, as no blood bank would have any in stock.
Hh Antigen System (Bombay Blood). h/h also known as Oh or Bombay Blood group is the rarest blood genotypes amongst all others. This blood phenotype was first seen in Bombay...
Chapter 6 The Hh blood group. The Hh blood group contains one antigen, the H antigen, which is found on virtually all RBCs and is the building block for the production of the antigens within the ABO blood group. If a person has blood group O, the H antigen remains unmodified. Therefore, the H antigen is present in the highest amounts in blood type O and in the least amounts in blood type AB. Two regions of the genome encode two enzymes with very similar substrate specificities—the H locus (FUT1) and the Se locus (FUT2).
(A transfusion of normal group O blood can trigger a severe transfusion reaction.). Because the H antigen is the precursor of the ABO blood group antigens, if it is not produced, the ABO blood group antigens are also not produced. If a person has blood group O, the H antigen remains unmodified. Therefore, the H antigen is present in the highest amounts in blood type O and in the least amounts in blood type AB. Two regions of the genome encode two enzymes with very similar substrate specificities—the H locus (FUT1) and the Se locus (FUT2).
Type HH, also known as Bombay blood, is named for where it was discovered. It is so rare that it is believed that less than 100 people in the world are known to have this blood type. That would mean that, in the event of an emergency, people who possess this particular group of blood would be placed in imminent danger. 