A cactus (plural: cacti, cactuses, or cactus) is a member of the plant family Cactaceae within the order Caryophyllales. The word cactus derives, through Latin, from the Ancient Greek κάκτος, kaktos, a name originally used by Theophrastus for a spiny plant whose identity is not certain. Pereskia (which is close to the ancestral species from which all cacti evolved) does have long-lasting leaves, which are, however, thickened and succulent in many species. Other species of cactus with long-lasting leaves, such as the opuntioid Pereskiopsis, also have succulent leaves.
The tender leaves or pads of the cactus, called nopales, often appear in boiled or grilled vegetable dishes, particularly in Mexican cuisine. Prickly pear extract and various other parts of the plant have many medicinal uses. The high-fiber cactus is rich in antioxidants and carotenoids. Practically the entire plant is edible and nutritious, from the flowers and fruits to the stems and leaves. The International Journal of Food Science and Nutrition reports that prickly pear cactus is a good source of several important minerals.
Posted on: June 18, 2005. I would like to know what health benefits do cactus plants have for the human body. Cacti belong to a large family of plants, the Cactaceae. Relatively little is known about the medicinal effects of cacti, but at least some are known to be medicinally active. Yet another study (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=pubmed&dopt=Abstract&list_uids=12503475&query_hl=1) showed that prickly pear may lower blood cholesterol and blood sugar. Of course the prickly pear cactus produces a tasty fruit and is grown commercially for the produce market.
The medicinal value of cactus is immense. Studies reveal that cactus contain anti-tumor, anti-ulcer, anti-inflammatory and anti-rheumatic properties. In addition, experts opine that cactus has the capacity to prevent cancerous growth of cells. The prickly pear cactus for instance, has enjoyed enough significance with respect to its medicinal value. Listed below are some health benefits of prickly pear cactus: 1  Helpful in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. 2  Helps in the treatment of hyperlipidemias (increased or abnormal level of lipids in the blood). 3  Contains anti-inflammatory properties. 4  Helps manage conditions of overweight and obesity. 5  Prevents cancer. 6  Heals wounds.
Prickly pear cactus is also used for medicine. Prickly pear cactus is used for type 2 diabetes, high cholesterol, obesity, alcohol hangover, colitis, diarrhea, and benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH). It is also used to fight viral infections. In foods, the prickly pear juice is used in jellies and candies. PRICKLY PEAR CACTUS Side Effects & Safety. Prickly pear cactus is LIKELY SAFE when eaten as food. The leaves, stems, flowers, fruit and standardized extracts of the prickly pear cactus are POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth as medicine in appropriate amounts for a short period of time.
Of the different plants that offer medicinal and nutritional benefits to human health, such as the neem tree or the aloe vera plant, the cactus species is rarely, if ever thought of, as having any health benefits. But there are some species of cactus that are useful in the field of health and medicine. In this article, learn about the medicinal uses of cactus plants as well as nutritional benefits of the same. Cactus Plants That Aid in Health and Medicine. All cactus plants aren't edible.
Medicinal Uses of Cactus Plants. Some plants such as lavender, chamomile and parsley, are famous for their medicinal and nutritional benefits but a startling member of the medically useful plants list is the cactus plant. Read on to learn how useful certain cacti are for your health. Advertisement. Sharp painful spikes. But there are some species of cactus that are useful in the field of health and medicine. In this article, learn about the medicinal uses of cactus plants as well as nutritional benefits of the same. Cactus Plants That Aid in Health and Medicine. All cactus plants aren't edible.
The prickly pear cactus is also called the paddle cactus and belongs to the Opuntia genus of cacti. They are also a distinct cactus species, due to their dual spike system, fixed spines and prickly glochids. The leaves or pads of cactus are called nopales and the fruit is called tuna or pear. But there are some species of cactus that are useful in the field of health and medicine. In this article, learn about the medicinal uses of cactus plants as well as nutritional benefits of the same. Cactus Plants That Aid in Health and Medicine. All cactus plants aren't edible.
Prickly pear cactus (Opuntia ficus-indica), is an edible cactus plant that grows in the arid and semi-arid regions of the world. The high-fiber cactus is rich in antioxidants and carotenoids. Practically the entire plant is edible and nutritious, from the flowers and fruits to the stems and leaves. The International Journal of Food Science and Nutrition reports that prickly pear cactus is a good source of several important minerals.