Eurocentrism is the practice of viewing the world from a European perspective and with an implied belief, either consciously or subconsciously, in the preeminence of European culture. Eurocentrism is a term coined in the 1980s, referring to the notion of European exceptionalism, a worldview centered on Western civilization, as it had developed during the height of the European colonial empires since the Early Modern period.
Lesson Summary. Ethnocentrism is the belief that your own cultural or ethnic group is superior to other culture or ethnic groups. When ethnic groups teach their children to hate other groups and either avoid or kill their members, then they've crossed the ethnocentric line. What color skin, hair, and eyes people have, what language they speak, what foods they eat, and what religion they practice all become ingrained in your mind, whether you know it or not. Ethnocentrism is the belief that your own cultural or ethnic group is superior to other cultural or ethnic groups. We tell our children to be the best students and athletes they can be. We adults want to belong to the best clubs and have the best jobs, homes, and cars possibl
He defined it as the viewpoint that “one’s own group is the center of everything,” against which all other groups are judged. Ethnocentrism often entails the belief that one's own race or ethnic group is the most important and/or that some or all aspects of its culture are superior to those of other groups. It can be described as a tendency to look at the world primarily from the perspective of one's own perspective, with the main influence being culture. People often feel ethnocentric while experiencing  culture shock  or when a behaviour is not understood due to cultural differences.
Ethnocentrism is the view or belief that one’s ethnicity is superior over the others. The “ethno” from the word ethnocentrism comes from “ethnos”, a Greek word meaning “people”. “Centrism” meanwhile refers to “center”. In today’s society, people may not be aware that ethnocentrism exists. People got used to being what they are, and believing in the things they believe, without really thinking that their choices may be a result of feeling superior over others. A classic example is on the topic of religion.
Introduction. Ethnocentrism is a term applied to the cultural or ethnic bias—whether conscious or unconscious—in which an individual views the world from the perspective of his or her own group, establishing the in-group as archetypal and rating all other groups with reference to this ideal. 
These ethnic distinctions and subdivisions serve to define each ethnicity 's unique cultural identity. Ethnocentrism may be overt or subtle, and while it is considered a natural proclivity of human psychology, it has developed a generally negative connotation. He defined it as the technical name for the view of things in which one's own group is the center of everything, and all others are scaled and rated with reference to it.. He further characterized it as often leading to pride, vanity, beliefs of one's own group's superiority, and contempt of outsiders.
Ethnocentricity is the a view of things in which one's own group or self is the centre of everything, and all others are scaled and rated with reference to it. It can be described as a tendency to look at the world primarily from the perspective of one's own perspective, with the main influence being culture. People often feel ethnocentric while experiencing  culture shock  or when a behaviour is not understood due to cultural differences.
Download. Positive Psychology, Ethnocentrism, and the Disguised Ideology of Individualism John Chambers Christopher MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY Sarah Hickinbottom SIMON FRASER UNIVERSITY ABSTRACT. 
Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values and standards of one's own culture. Ethnocentric individuals judge other groups relative to their own ethnic group or culture, especially with concern for language, behavior, customs, and religion. He defined it as the technical name for the view of things in which one's own group is the center of everything, and all others are scaled and rated with reference to it.. He further characterized it as often leading to pride, vanity, beliefs of one's own group's superiority, and contempt of outsiders.