Share. This is your best bet for a great mop for a smoked beef brisket. The mixture of oil, vinegar and beer will keep the meat tender and flavorful while smoking process. Remember to apply the mop every 2 hours. Mops, sop and baste recipes to keep your Smoked Barbecue Brisket moist while it cooks. These sauces are thin with just enough flavor to add to your brisket but not overpower it.
You'll need to use a smoker for the brisket (a converted barbecue won’t maintain the very low heat required), and to get the most authentic Texas flavor, seek out the natural lump charcoal specified in the recipe; it's available at barbecue stores, some natural foods stores and some supermarkets. Preparation. 1  Make dry rub: 2  Mix first 5 ingredients in small bowl to blend. 3  Transfer 1 tablespoon dry rub to another small bowl and reserve for mop. 4  Spread remaining dry rub all over brisket. 5  Cover with plastic; chill overnight. 6  Make mop: 7  Mix first 6 ingredients plus reserved dry rub in heavy medium saucepan.
This flavorful barbecue mop recipe will keep your brisket full of flavor and add moisture during the smoking process. Remember to get the mop on the meat and not to worry about the fat. Mops, sop and baste recipes to keep your Smoked Barbecue Brisket moist while it cooks. These sauces are thin with just enough flavor to add to your brisket but not overpower it.
Brisket Mop Recipes. Mops, sop and baste recipes to keep your Smoked Barbecue Brisket moist while it cooks. These sauces are thin with just enough flavor to add to your brisket but not overpower it.
Mop or baste the meat every hour with the mop sauce. 7. Generously brush the brisket on both sides with the barbecue sauce and tightly wrap in heavy duty aluminum foil. Continue cooking the brisket until very tender, another 3-1/2 to 4 hours, for a total of 7 to 8 hours cooking time. 
Texans like their barbecue spicy, in the tradition of the Southwest, which is chili pepper country. For this recipe, you'll need to order a U.S.D.A. choice grade, packer-trimmed brisket: That's a brisket with none of the fat cut off. Before being cooked, the meat is seasoned with a dry rub; during cooking, it is brushed regularly with a beer-based mop. Preparation. 1  Make dry rub: 2  Mix first 5 ingredients in small bowl to blend. 3  Transfer 1 tablespoon dry rub to another small bowl and reserve for mop. 4  Spread remaining dry rub all over brisket. 5  Cover with plastic; chill overnight. 6  Make mop: 7  Mix first 6 ingredients plus reserved dry rub in heavy medium saucepan.
It is important to apply thin layers, but not to mop too frequently or the flavor might become overpowering. Mopping Brisket. Regarding BBQ Inc. This is your best bet for a great mop for a smoked beef brisket. The mixture of oil, vinegar and beer will keep the meat tender and flavorful while smoking process. Remember to apply the mop every 2 hours. More ». 
2. For the dry rub: Combine all ingredients in a blender or food processor, and pulse until mixed thoroughly. 3. Rub all sides of the brisket with Sweet ‘n Spicy Dry Rub. Set aside at room temperature for 2 hours. 4. Prepare your smoker according to manufacturer’s directions. 
Place the brisket in the smoker, fat side down, and smoke for 4 to 5 hours or until extremely tender. Baste with the mop every 30 minutes. Dark Beer Mop: Place all ingredients in a medium saucepan, season with salt and pepper and cook over medium heat for 15 minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool slightly. Directions. Mix together the spices in a small bowl. Rub the entire brisket with the spice mixture, place on a baking sheet, cover and let stand in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour or up to 6 hours. Prepare the smoker according to manufacturer's directions