A poison ivy rash will eventually go away on its own. But the itching can be hard to deal with and make it difficult to sleep. If you scratch your blisters, they may become infected. Here are some steps you can take to help control the itching: 1  Apply an over-the-counter corticosteroid cream for the first few days.
First, if you think you have been exposed to poison ivy, oak, or sumac, wash all exposed areas thoroughly. If you can do this within 10 minutes of contact, many times you may avoid an allergic reaction. You can treat most cases of the rash yourself with calamine lotion. Cold compresses -- 15 to 30 minutes several times a day -- are useful for itching and blistering; cool showers are also effective. Antihistamines may also relieve the symptoms.
1 Poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac are plants than can cause an itchy rash upon contact. 2  A substance called urushiol, found in these plants, causes the rash. 3  The rash is not contagious. 4  The rash usually disappears in one to three weeks. 5  The majority of cases can be treated at home.
Like cough home remedies and home remedies for headaches, these natural poison ivy home remedies can provide relief without getting into the medicine cabinet.
To soothe a poison ivy rash, especially one red with blisters, mix 3 teaspoons baking soda and 1 teaspoon water and apply the paste to the affected areas. When it dries, the baking soda will flake off, providing at least temporary relief.
Home remedies and treatment for poison ivy are generally targeted towards providing relief for symptoms such as itching and pain. Unfortunately the rash and blisters cannot be eliminated completely and the infection has to run its normal course.
Oatmeal is one of the most common home remedies for poison ivy that you will come across. What oatmeal essentially does is relieve the severe itching symptoms that come with a poison ivy rash.
Contact with poison ivy, poison oak, or poison sumac often goes hand-in-hand with camping and other outdoor activities. Outdoor enthusiasts by the tentful have had to cut trips short after an unfortunate encounter with one of this threesome. The problem stems from the plant's colorless oil called urushiol.