Amphibians, such as frogs, toads, salamanders,  newts, and gymnophiona, are cold-blooded animals that metamorphose  from a juvenile, water-breathing form to an adult, air-breathing  form. Unlike other land  animals (amniotes), amphibians lay eggs in water, as their fish  ancestors did. Amphibians are superficially similar to  reptiles.    Amphibians are cold-blooded animals, meaning they do not have a  constant body temperature but instead take on the temperature of  their environment.
Amphibians are frogs, toads, salamanders, newts and other cold blooded animals that change from breathing water as a juvenile to breathing air as an adult. Amphibians lay th … eir eggs in water, as their fish ancestors did.   Some examples:   Frogs. All sorts!Toads. Amphibians are cold-blooded. They have moist skin without scales and can breathe through their lungs and skin. Amphibians live partly on land and in water. They have young that breathe through gills in water. Some common examples are frogs, toads, salamanders and newt
Amphibians are frogs, toads, salamanders, newts and other cold blooded animals that change from breathing water as a juvenile to breathing air as an adult. Amphibians lay their eggs in water, as their fish ancestors did. Unlike other land  animals (amniotes), amphibians lay eggs in water, as their fish  ancestors did. Amphibians are superficially similar to  reptiles.    Amphibians are cold-blooded animals, meaning they do not have a  constant body temperature but instead take on the temperature of  their environment.
Confidence votes 977. Amphibians are cold-blooded. They have moist skin without scales and can breathe through their lungs and skin. Amphibians live partly on land and in water. They have young that breathe through gills in water. Some common examples are frogs, toads, salamanders and newts
What Makes an Amphibian A cold-blooded animal that lives both on land and in water and is able to breathe through its skin as well as, or instead of, through its lungs. Amphibians are animals that live part of their lives in water and part on land. They usually have soft, moist skin that is protected by a slippery layer of mucus. They also tend to live in moist places or near water to keep their bodies from drying out
Some common examples are frogs, toads, salamanders and newts. Another amphibian is a mudskipper and the Jesse frog, which is unknown to most of the world These animals are the toads, frogs and salamanders and many more. Unlike other land  animals (amniotes), amphibians lay eggs in water, as their fish  ancestors did. Amphibians are superficially similar to  reptiles.    Amphibians are cold-blooded animals, meaning they do not have a  constant body temperature but instead take on the temperature of  their environment.
Frogs and salamanders are amphibians. Amphibians are animals that live part of their lives in water and part on land. They usually have soft, moist skin that is protected by a slippery layer of mucus. They also tend to live in moist places or near water to keep their bodies from drying out