Your pulse is your heart rate, or the number of times your heart beats in one minute. Heart rates vary from person to person. Your pulse is lower when you are at rest and increases when you exercise (because more oxygen-rich blood is needed by the body during exercise). A normal resting heart rate is generally considered to be 60-100 beats per minute. The exact number will vary among individuals. Children tend to have higher resting heart rates than adults.
A normal resting heart rate can range anywhere from 40 to 100 beats per minute. Below is a chart relating resting heart rate and fitness level. As can be seen on this chart, your resting heart rate can vary with your fitness level and with age — the fitter you are, generally the lower the resting heart rate. 
According to a study, resting heart rate — the number of heartbeats per minute while at rest — predicts risk for cardiac events in middle-aged women regardless of physical activity, smoking, and other risk factors. The best time to measure your resting heart rate is before you get out of bed in the morning. To measure it at the wrist, lightly press the index and middle fingers together on the opposite wrist, below the fat pad of the thumb. Count the number of beats in 15 seconds, and multiply by four.
When someone refers to resting pulse rate, it often means the rate at which the heart beats when the body is at rest. Resting pulse rates within a normal range is an indication of good health, asserts the National Institutes of Health. For women, a normal resting heart rate isn't different than in a man. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically
Feb. 3, 2009 -- A woman's resting pulse rate is a good predictor of her heart attack risk regardless of other risk factors, such as smoking and alcohol consumption, researchers say. A team of scientists analyzed records of 129,135 postmenopausal women who had no history of heart problems. The relationship between resting heart rate and coronary risk was stronger in women less than 65 years old than in women over 65. The data for the study came from the Women's Health Initiative. Women with a history of heart attack, stroke, or similar serious problems were excluded.
The normal heart rate for women is a measure of the resting rate. The resting heart rate is measured in BPM-beats per minute-which is a measurement that is best taken when you are breathing normally. Thus, a normal heart rate for women is between 70 to 80 beats per minute. For women that are into health and fitness and exercise regularly this range may go down and be between 45 to 60 beats per minute. Your heart rate is affected by factors such as:
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe. Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath. With.
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate.