Erin Werner Photography » Oakland County Clarkston, Michigan portrait and lifestyle photographer. 
The City of the Village of Clarkston, Michigan is located in Oakland County approximately halfway between. Detroit and Flint. I-75, Dixie Highway, and M-15 are major thoroughfares for the area. More information about the City can be found here. The historic homes in the city. reflect Clarkston s heritage, giving the community an air of timeless elegance. The 36-square-mile area of Independence Township surrounding the quaint village of Clarkston offers the. beauty of country living with the conveniences of a modern city.
This magnificent property boasts a junior olympic size swimming pool and 6 tennis courts. Whether you are a young family or empty nesters, there is always something for everyone at Oakhurst. Oakhurst is located in Oakland County (Clarkston, MI). Oakhurst Golf & Country Club is also known as one of the best places to get married in Metro Detroit. If you are looking for the perfect wedding venue, or just looking to host a corporate event/golf outing, call our Event Sales department to book your special event.
OCSC is Oakland County’s best kept secret! Oakland County Sportsmen Club was established in 1943. The club's shooting sports include archery, rifle, pistol, shotguns, muzzle loaders. Also being home to the Michigan Midget Racing Association and Waterford Hills Road Racing. 1 If you can help, call the Club Office, 248/623-0444. 2  It's a great way to get hours, meet other club members! 3  Range access cards are activated from October 1st until October 1st of the following year. 4  Renew your card before October 1st to keep it active. 5  Call the office if you have any questions.
52/2 District Court Home. Page Content. The 52nd District Court - 2nd Division has 2 judges: Joseph Fabrizio and Kelley Kostin and a full support staff to provide quality judicial services to southeast Michigan residents within their jurisdiction. 52/2 is separated into 4 primary divisions including: In accordance with the Michigan Supreme Court Administrative Order 2013-8, the 52nd District Court has established a Language Access Plan which can be reviewed here. If language interpretation services are needed, please contact the coordinator, Sharon Rupe - 248-625-4880.
Home. Established in 1832, the City of the Village of Clarkston, features historic charm in the heart of Oakland. County. This one-half square mile community is surrounded by Independence Township, home to. approximately 900 people and within close proximity of I-75 and Dixie Highway. The historic homes in the city. reflect Clarkston s heritage, giving the community an air of timeless elegance. The 36-square-mile area of Independence Township surrounding the quaint village of Clarkston offers the. beauty of country living with the conveniences of a modern city.
Lake Maps-Oakland County. Below is a list of lake maps for Oakland county. Just check the lakes you would like maps for, fill in your e-mail address and you will be immediately e-mailed your maps in JPEG format. The maps below are both all sports and non-sports lakes. Lapeer County Lake Maps. Below is a list of lake maps for Oakland county. Just check the lakes you would like maps for, fill in your e-mail address and you will be immediately e-mailed your maps in JPEG format.
City of the Village of Clarkston or Clarkston is a small city located in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The city is approximately one half square mile and is surrounded by Independence Charter Township. The population was 882 at the 2010 census. Clarkston is a small community in the northern outskirts of the Detroit suburbs. Located with easy access to I-75, Clarkston offers a direct route to downtown Detroit and Flint. US 24 begins nearby in Independence Township as a north-south highway