Oven Temperature. Another thing that determines how long the salmon is baked is oven temperature. Typically, recipes for baking salmon call for an oven temperature of 350 to 450 degrees. The salmon should always be put into a pre-heated oven. Cooking in an oven that hasn't been pre-heated can cause drying of the fish.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum ba
If you are asking the oven temp i would say at 350 F is fine. If you have a meat thermometer, i cook salmon to around 160 F so it is still very moist and not overcooked. Simply use a sheet of foil and create a tent over the salmon. I cook fillets at 275F in the oven or on the grill skin side down until internal temp is 135-140. Just when the fat starts oozing out of the top of the salmon. Doesn't get much better than that.
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Salmon is done when easily flaked: You can also check the doneness of your salmon with a fork. When the salmon flakes easily with a fork, it's ready.
Ideally, start checking the internal temperature a few minutes before the salmon fillet should be done cooking -- this prevents you from overcooking the fish. Once your salmon is cooked, clean the meat thermometer with hot water and soap to prevent cross-contamination. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact. When contaminated fish is consumed, it can lead to a variety of food-borne illnesses.
1 Set heat to 425 convection-bake (must use a hot oven). 2  Bake the salmon for 20 minutes or until cooked (do not turn the salmon, the cooking time will vary depending on the size of your fillets). 3  Serve the cooked fillets with lemon wedges. 1 At this point you can cover an refrigerate until ready to bake. 2  Set heat to 425 convection-bake (must use a hot oven). 3
The United States Food and Drug Administration recommends cooking salmon to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit. Push the tip of the meat thermometer gently into the middle of the salmon fillet at its thickest part. Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact. When contaminated fish is consumed, it can lead to a variety of food-borne illnesses.