This makes Vulgar Latin the people's language. It was this language that the soldiers took with them and that interacted with native languages and the language of later invaders, particularly the Moors and Germanic invasions, to produce the Romance languages throughout the area that had once been the Roman Empire. Latin was the language of the Roman Empire, but the classical Latin that was written by the literati like Cicero was not the language of daily life. It was certainly not the language soldiers and traders took with them to the edges of Empire, like Dacia (modern Romania), on the northern and eastern frontier.
No one grows up learning Latin anymore, what makes it an extinct language. However, many people around the world study it in school and in other places because it is considered very important to understand the past societies and even how current languages work. Latin is used today in taxonomy to give technical names to species and groups of species of living things. Latin has almost the same inflection structure as Ancient Greek. It uses a different alphabet, though. Latin has seven different noun cases: nominative, vocative, accusative, genitive, dative, ablative and locative. The vocative case is almost always the same as the nominative case.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Latin America, refers to the countries of America that speak romance languages, languages derived from latin. So it includes all countries that speak Portuguese, Spanish and French. Actually even though technically French is a latin language those countries usually are not considered Latin American since they're so different in terms of languare, culture, history, races, economy, etc, that it makes no sence to group them with the rest. That's why the term Iberian American would be the ideal.
The Latin alphabet is derived from the Etruscan and Greek alphabets. Latin was originally spoken in Latium, Italy. Through the power of the Roman Republic, it became the dominant language, initially in Italy and subsequently throughout the Roman Empire. Latin and French have contributed many words to the English language. Latin and Greek roots are used in theology, biology, and medicine. By the late Roman Republic (75 BC), Old Latin had been standardized into Classical Latin.
Latin is a highly inflected language, with three distinct genders, seven noun cases, four verb conjugations, six tenses, three persons, three moods, two voices, two aspects, and two numbers. Latin and French have contributed many words to the English language. Latin and Greek roots are used in theology, biology, and medicine. By the late Roman Republic (75 BC), Old Latin had been standardized into Classical Latin.
Latin is an old language that was spoken by the Romans and others during ancient and medieval times. Latin has almost the same inflection structure as Ancient Greek. It uses a different alphabet, though. Latin has seven different noun cases: nominative, vocative, accusative, genitive, dative, ablative and locative. The vocative case is almost always the same as the nominative case.
Latin (/ˈlaetɨn/ ; ˈlætɨn: latin lingua, [latīna ˈlɪŋɡʷa]) laˈtiːna is a classical language belonging to The italic branch of The-Indo european. Languages The latin alphabet is derived from The etruscan And greek. alphabets Latin and French have contributed many words to the English language. Latin and Greek roots are used in theology, biology, and medicine. By the late Roman Republic (75 BC), Old Latin had been standardized into Classical Latin.
Vulgar Latin developed into the Romance languages, such as French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Romanian. Latin and French have contributed many words to the English language. Latin and Greek roots are used in theology, biology, and medicine. By the late Roman Republic (75 BC), Old Latin had been standardized into Classical Latin.