DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Naproxen belongs to a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Other members of this class include ibuprofen (Motrin), indomethacin (Indocin), nabumetone (Relafen) and several others. 
Descriptions. Naproxen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to relieve symptoms of arthritis (osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or juvenile arthritis) such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain. 
Naproxen sodium is the generic ingredient in Aleve and several other brands of pain medication. Naproxen is in a class of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which work by blocking the production of prostaglandins, substances in the body that play a role in pain and inflammation. A: Naproxen (Naprosyn) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that blocks substances in the body that normally cause pain and inflammation. Naproxen is indicated for pain associated with headache, cramps, and other pain.
Generic for Aleve* (Naproxen) is prescribed to provide relief from pain and swelling. It belongs to a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs that work by reducing the pain-causing hormones in the body. Generic for Aleve* can cause side effects such as stomach pain, mild heartburn, headache, diarrhea, blurred vision, constipation, dizziness, skin itching, and bloating.
Your search for Aleve oral returned 2 results. NAPROXEN-ORAL. NAPROXEN 220 MG-ORAL. The medication you searched for has more than one listing. Multiple listings, which are compiled by generic name indicate a drug is available in more than one dose or in different forms, such as tablets, liquid or injection.
I'm having a hard time finding out what the drug trade name is (Aleve) vs. the generic name. I'm looking in Davis Drug guide, and Aleve is listed under Naproxen. What is the difference. I can't find in my Davis Drug guide a key which tells me what these are or the differences. Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Aleve is the over-the-counter brand name for Naproxen Sodium. Aleve is the trade-marked brand/trade name. Naproxen Sodium is the generic/common name. (+)-(S)-2-(6-methoxynaphthalen-2-yl) propanoic acid is the molecular/scientific name
Naproxen is commonly used for the reduction of pain, fever, inflammation, and stiffness caused by conditions including migraine, osteoarthritis, kidney stones, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, gout, ankylosing spondylitis, menstrual cramps, tendinitis, and bursitis, among others. 
Its purpose is to reduce swelling throughout the body, provide pain relief, and bring down fevers. Aleve is the brand name for naproxen that is available over-the-counter in most drug stores, and it comes in 220mg caplets, gelcaps or tablets. Aleve is known by many generic names, such as naproxen, Naprelan, or Naprosyn. This pain reliever is produced by many different manufacturers, such as Roche, Watson, Teva, and Roxane Pharmaceuticals. There are several different forms and strengths of Aleve with some requiring a prescription for use. 
Strengths of Generic Naproxen Sodium. Generic naproxen sodium is sold under the name Naproxen Sodium tablets. It comes in a number of different strengths, including: 1  Naproxen Sodium 220 mg tablets or caplets (available without a prescription). 2  Naproxen Sodium 275 mg tablets. 3  Naproxen Sodium 550 mg tablets. Uses for naproxen sodium include the following: 1  Pain relief, such as for pain following a medical procedure, from straining a muscle, or from inflammation in a tendon (tendonitis) or bursa (bursitis). 2  Treatment of arthritis symptoms, including pain, stiffness, and swelling.