[ 1 syll. roy, ro-y ] The baby boy name Roy is pronounced R-oy †. Roy's language of origin is Irish Gaelic, Celtic, French, and English, and it is used largely in the English, Dutch, French, German, and Scottish languages. From Celtic roots, its meaning is 'ruddy, red-haired; king' - in this context, Roy can be used in the English, French, German, and Scottish languages. The first name was originally derived from the Gaelic nickname Ruadh, of the element ruadh. Roy is also a diminutive form of Leroy (English) in the Dutch and English languages. Roy is also a short form of Royal
Roy is an English, Scottish Gaelic and French name of Norman origin. This family name originated from the Normans, meaning Northman in several Scandinavian languages, who were descendants of Norse Vikings from Denmark, Norway and Iceland. Roy can also be found in India, a variant of the name  Rai , which was a historical title of honour in India conferred by the British Raj.
The name Roy is of Scottish origin, and it means Red . It's a name commonly given to boys. Rock Hudson is an actor with the most prominent portion of his career being from 1947 to 1985. 
In addition, Roy is a variant of Conroy (English). Roy is also a variant of Gilroy (English and Gaelic). Roy is also a diminutive form of Leroy (English) in the Dutch and English languages. Roy is also a short form of Royal (English) in the Dutch and English languages.
It also appears in Scottish Gaelic, from the word ruadh, meaning red. Roy can also be found in India, a variant of the name  Rai , which was a historical title of honour in India conferred by the British Raj.
Celtic Meaning: The name Roy is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Roy is: Red haired. American Meaning: The name Roy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Roy is: Red haired. Gaelic Meaning: The name Roy is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Roy is: Red. Scottish Meaning: The name Roy is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Roy is: Red. French Meaning: The name Roy is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Roy is: King; regal.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Flag1. Confidence votes 1. The name Roy is a derivative of the French word Roi, meaning King or ruler and is related to the Spanish equivalent Rey. the other explanantion would link the word Roy to the German word Rot or Rott meaning ruddy or red. Originally a Scottish name, Roy means Red, from the Gaelic word Ruadh. 
Roy /roy/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced roy. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Roy is red. As a short form of names like Leroy, Roy is also a form of the Old French term roi, meaning king. Roy Rogers is a modern chain of fast-food restaurants. Cowboy Roy Rogers; actor Roy Schneider. 
Roy is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Roy. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 532 in baby name popularity for boys with 517 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. 
The name Roy is a derivative of the French word Roi, meaning King or ruler and is related to the Spanish equivalent Rey. the other explanantion would link the word Roy to the … German word Rot or Rott meaning ruddy or red. Originally a Scottish name, Roy means Red, from the Gaelic word Ruadh. 5 people found this useful. 1  A Closer Look at Roy Orbison's In Dreams Roy Orbison was an American singer-songwriter who used his powerful voice and dark, haunting lyrics to become one of the most respected artists in country music history. 2  Orbi….