That adherence by any member of the Organization of American States to Marxism-Leninism is incompatible with the inter-American system and the alignment of such a government with the communist bloc breaks the unity and solidarity of the continents. This was the event that saw the birth of the OAS as it stands today, with the signature by 21 American countries of the Charter of the Organization of American States on 30 April 1948 (in effect since December 1951).
The Organization of American States, or the OAS, is a continental organization founded on 30 April 1948 for the purposes of regional solidarity and cooperation among its member states. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., United States, the OAS's members are the 35 independent states of the Americas. 
The meeting also adopted the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, the world's first general human rights instrument, Bogota bogotá considered the first defensive state in the event of, war of The organization Of American. states This was the event that saw the birth of the OAS as it stands today, with the signature by 21 American countries of the Charter of the Organization of American States on 30 April 1948 (in effect since December 1951).
The Organization of American States is composed of an Organization of American States General Secretariat, the Permanent Council, the Inter-American Council for Integral Development, and a number of committees. The General Secretariat of the Organization of American States consists of six secretariats. This was the event that saw the birth of the OAS as it stands today, with the signature by 21 American countries of the Charter of the Organization of American States on 30 April 1948 (in effect since December 1951).
The Organization of American States is the world’s oldest regional organization, dating back to the First International Conference of American States, held in Washington, D.C., from October 1889 to April 1890. 
1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) an association consisting of the US and other republics in the W hemisphere, founded at Bogota bogotá in 1948 to promote, military, economic, social and cultural cooperation among the member. States: ABBREVIATION Oas see Also Pan American. union Adel al-Sonini and Ban Ki-moon in a protocol meeting, which was held Thursday at the headquarters of the. in presence of head and members of the Permanent Council of the international organization. Ban Ki-moon praises Yemeni experience in peaceful change by Yemen News Agency (SABA).
Organization of American States-an association including most countries in the western hemisphere; created in 1948 to promote military and economic and social and cultural cooperation. OAS. Adel al-Sonini and Ban Ki-moon in a protocol meeting, which was held Thursday at the headquarters of the. in presence of head and members of the Permanent Council of the international organization. Ban Ki-moon praises Yemeni experience in peaceful change by Yemen News Agency (SABA).
This came during a meeting gathered Charge d'affaires of Yemeni Embassy in Washington and Permanent Observer for Yemen in. Adel al-Sonini and Ban Ki-moon in a protocol meeting, which was held Thursday at the headquarters of the. in presence of head and members of the Permanent Council of the international organization. Ban Ki-moon praises Yemeni experience in peaceful change by Yemen News Agency (SABA).
The term  United States , when used in the geographical sense, is the contiguous United States, the state of Alaska, the island state of Hawaii, the five insular territories of Puerto Rico, Northern Mariana Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, and minor outlying possessions. By total area (water as well as land), the United States is either slightly larger or smaller than the People's Republic of China, making it the world's third or fourth largest country. China and the United States are smaller than Russia and Canada in total area, but are larger than Brazil.