But an integrity strategy is broader, deeper, and more demanding than a legal compliance initiative. Broader in that it seeks to enable responsible conduct. Deeper in that it cuts to the ethos and operating systems of the organization and its members, their guiding values and patterns of thought and action. From the perspective of integrity, the task of ethics management is to define and give life to an organization’s guiding values, to create an environment that supports ethically sound behavior, and to instill a sense of shared accountability among employees.
From a policy perspective, there are many factors that go into the determination of an organization’s policies, including statutory and regulatory requirements, company or organizational best practices, and market demands. (Note: This is part of our series “Collaborate with Confidence”. Previous posts: SharePoint Governance: Putting Your Plan into Action). According to Merriam Webster the dictionary definition of compliance is as follows: 1  The act or process of complying to a desire, demand, proposal, or regimen, or to coercion.
Main » TERM » C ». In data storage terminology, the word compliance is used to refer to industry-wide government regulations and rules that cite how data is managed and the need for organizations to be in compliance with those regulations. The term encompasses data storage, data archiving, data encryption, and also data retrieval. 
Employment law and compliance concerns the legal framework within which organizations must operate in their treatment of employees. Employers must comply with a myriad of federal and state laws and regulations. 
As regulations and other guidelines have increasingly become a concern of corporate management, companies are turning more frequently to specialized compliance software and IT compliance consultancies. Many organizations have even added compliance jobs such as a chief compliance officer (CCO). The main responsibilities of a chief compliance officer include ensuring that an organization is able to both manage compliance risk and pass a compliance audit. The exact nature of a compliance audit will vary depending upon factors such as the organization's industry, whether it is a public or private company, and the nature of the data it creates, collects and stores.
A Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) is a corporate official in charge of overseeing and managing compliance issues within an organization, ensuring, for example, that a company is complying with regulatory requirements and that the company and its employees are complying with internal policies and procedures. A Chief Technology Officer (CTO) is the individual within an organization who has ultimate responsibility for all technology ... See complete definition. data privacy (information privacy). Data privacy, also called information privacy, is the aspect of information technology (IT) that deals with the ability an ...
6. To all who do business with this organization, this organization shall conduct its. business in a manner that is consistent with this organization’s tax-exempt status and. all other applicable laws and regulations. received a copy of Bluegrass’ Organizational Integrity and Compliance Plan. I have read the Plan and do agree that while I am a board member, employee, independent contractor, volunteer or student of Bluegrass, I have a duty to report any suspected violations of it.
Compliance is a prevalent business concern, partly because of an ever-increasing number of regulations that require companies to be vigilant about maintaining a full understanding of their regulatory compliance requirements. The exact nature of a compliance audit will vary depending upon factors such as the organization's industry, whether it is a public or private company, and the nature of the data it creates, collects and stores.
Organizational compliance refers to an organization s tangible efforts to prevent, detect, and otherwise respond appropriately to wrongful behavior associated with the actions of those working on an organization s behalf. This includes directors, officers, employees, agents, and independent contractors. 