A confidant is someone to whom private matters are confided. (The words confidant and confidante are interchangeable, but strict grammarians reserve confidant for males and confidante for females.). Confident relates to being certain or assured. 1 My theory is that if you look confident you can pull off anything-even if you have no clue what you're doing. ( 2 Jessica Alba). 3  No matter what a woman looks like, if she's confident, she's sexy. ( 4 Paris Hilton). 5  And in rejecting an atheistic other world, I am confident that the Almighty God will be with us.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a confidant is a friend who you can trust, who you tell secrets. An example of a confidant is a friend who you’ve known your whole life that you can tell anything. noun. 1  One to whom secrets or private matters are disclosed. 2  A character in a drama or fiction, such as a trusted friend or servant, who serves as a device for revealing the inner thoughts or intentions of a main character.
The confidant (/ˈkɒnfɪdaent/ ˈkɒnfɪdænt /or/ ; ˌkɒnfɪˈdɑːnt: feminine, confidante same) pronunciation is a character in a story that the lead (character) protagonist confides in and. trusts The type of character used as a confidant is most commonly the protagonist's closest friend, but may also be a family member such as a spouse, sibling or parental figure, co-worker, trainer or a health professional such as their psychiatrist.
Someone with confidence (i.e., not shy and with self-belief) is described as confident. Being confident also means to be assured or certain of something that is pending. Examples: The noun confidant denotes someone to whom private or personal matters are confided (i.e. someone trusted). 1 My theory is that if you look confident you can pull off anything-even if you have no clue what you're doing. ( 2 Jessica Alba). 3  No matter what a woman looks like, if she's confident, she's sexy. ( 4 Paris Hilton). 5  And in rejecting an atheistic other world, I am confident that the Almighty God will be with us.
confidant. noun. 1  One to whom secrets or private matters are disclosed. 2  A character in a drama or fiction, such as a trusted friend or servant, who serves as a device for revealing the inner thoughts or intentions of a main character.
[Telegraph] Claypool later became a partner with David Axelrod, now a close political confidante of President Barack Obama. [Chicago Tribune]. Confidant, which refers to one to whom secrets or private thoughts are disclosed, refers to both males and females. C onfidante sometimes appears in reference to females, but the male–female distinction is unnecessary here. Confidant vs. confidante. Ernesto “Che” Guevara, the Argentine-Cuban revolutionary and close confidante of Fidel Castro, was no terrorist. [New Yorker] They will want to find out whether he was a bin Laden
Full Definition of CONFIDANT. : one to whom secrets are entrusted; especially: intimate. See confidant defined for English-language learners. See confidant defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Learn More About CONFIDANT. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for confidant. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of confidant. Nglish: Translation of confidant for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of confidant for Arabic speakers.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. The term “confidant” is often used to describe a person who has been trusted with sensitive or private personal information. Everyone needs a confidant, but choosing a trustworthy person to share your secrets with can be a tricky task. A good confidant is someone with whom you can share secrets. By the very nature of their professions, priests must be trustworthy confidants. Most people feel the need for a confidant. Most people find that spending time discussing things with a confidant to be a stress relief.
The noun confidant refers to a person (usually a friend or associate) to whom secrets or private matters are disclosed. The adjective confident means certain, bold, or self-assured.  1 He was my soul mate, my confidant, my hedge against loneliness. 2  I needed him. 3  I felt lost without him.. 
confidant. 1. 'confidant'. Confidant. is a noun. A confidant is a person who you discuss your private problems and worries with. You use the spelling confidante when the person is a woman. ...Colonel House, a friend and confidant of President Woodrow Wilson. She became her father's only confidante. 2. 'confident'. Confident. is an adjective. confidant. n. 1. a person, esp a man, to whom private matters are confided. [C17: from French confident, from Italian confidente, n use of adj: trustworthy, from Latin confīdens confident]. (ˈkɒn fɪˌdaent, -fɪˌdænt, -ˌdɑnt, dənt ˌkɒn, -fɪˈdaent). fɪˈdænt ˈdɑnt