The tailbone is actually not one bone but rather several bones located in the lower back. The tailbone, which is also referred to as the coccyx, can be either bruised or broken, and there are a number of different causes of tailbone injuries that can result in a bruise or a break. Bruises and breaks cause pain, which is referred to as coccygodynia or coccydynia.
Overview of Coccyx (Tailbone) Pain. When a person has pain in or around the tailbone area, this condition is called coccydynia (pain of the coccyx). The coccyx, more commonly known as the tailbone, is the small bone located at the very bottom of the spine. It’s fused by a layer of cartilage, and is not fully fused with the spine until adulthood. 
Patient Comments Read 40 Comments Share Your Story. The coccyx, or tailbone, is the triangular bony structure located at the bottom of the vertebral column between the buttocks. It is composed of three to five bony segments held in place by joints and ligaments. 
Tailbone Injury Overview. A coccyx injury results in pain and discomfort in the tailbone area (the condition is called coccydynia). These injuries may result in a bruise, dislocation, or fracture (break) of the coccyx. Although they may be slow to heal, the majority of coccyx injuries can be managed with cautious treatment. Tailbone Injury Causes. Most tailbone injuries are caused by trauma to the coccyx area. 1  A fall onto the tailbone in the seated position, usually against a hard surface, is the most common cause of coccyx injuries. 2  A direct blow to the tailbone, such as those that occur during contact sports, can injure
Coccyx. The coccyx, also known as the tailbone, is a small, triangular bone resembling a shortened tail located at the bottom of the spine. It is composed of three to five coccygeal vertebrae or spinal bones. 
0. Jun 8, '07 by dschueler. Sacrum is what the coccyx is attached to in the lower vertebral bone structure below the lumbar region, and your coccyx is what you are sitting on, the very bottom piece of bone that is commonly referred to as the tailbone. GOOGLE it if you don't know next time, it will help you remember it better. # 1 1.
The coccyx (or tailbone) is located at the bottom of the pelvis, in between the glutes (or butt cheeks) . Tail bone. The coccyx is the last segment of the base of the back bone, its also known as the tailbone. The coccyx is a vestigial tail and is the last section of the spinal column.
The coccyx is formed of either three, four or five rudimentary vertebrae. It articulates superiorly with the sacrum. In each of the first three segments may be traced a rudimentary body and articular and transverse processes; the last piece (sometimes the third) is a mere nodule of bone. The coccyx (/ˈkɒksɪks/ KOK-siks; plural: coccyges or coccyxes), commonly referred to as the tailbone, is the final segment of the vertebral column in humans and apes, and certain other mammals such as horses.
The coccyx is the lowermost portion of the human spine, it is located below the sacrum and usually consists of 3-5 bones. These bones can be fused or not. The coccyx is common … ly referred to as the tailbone. The sacrum. The coccyx is attached to the sacrum. Tail bone. The coccyx is the last segment of the base of the back bone, its also known as the tailbone. The coccyx is a vestigial tail and is the last section of the spinal column.