a type of blood cell that lacks hemoglobin and is therefore colorless. Leukocytes are larger in size and fewer in number than erythrocytes; normally the blood has about 8000 of them per mm 3. a lymphokine elaborated by activated T or B lymphocytes that inhibits polymorphonuclear leukocyte migration. polymorphonuclear leukocyte. any of the fully developed, segmented cells of the granulocyte series, especially a neutrophil, whose nuclei contain three or more lobes joined by filamentous connections.
Neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils are polymorphonuclear leukocytes. A polymorphonuclear leukocyte is a type of white blood cell. Also called granular leukocyte, granulocyte, and PMN. Blood cell development. A blood stem cell goes through several steps to become a red blood cell, platelet, or white blood cell. Browse the dictionary by selecting a letter of the alphabet or by entering a cancer-related word or phrase in the search box. The search textbox has an autosuggest feature.
granular l's leukocytes containing abundant granules in the cytoplasm, including neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils. Called also granulocyte. neutrophilic leukocyte neutrophil (def. 2). nongranular l's leukocytes without specific granules in the cytoplasm, including lymphocytes and monocytes. Called also agranular leukocytes. polymorphonuclear leukocyte any fully developed, segmented granular leukocyte whose nuclei contain multiple lobes joined by filamentous connections, especially a neutrophil. a lymphokine elaborated by activated T or B lymphocytes that inhibits polymorphonuclear leukocyte migration. polymorphonuclear leukocyte. any of the fully developed, segmented cells of the granulocyte series, especially a neutrophil, whose nuclei contain three or more lobes joined by filamentous connections.
A. The white blood cells (leukocytes) comprise two types of cells (a) Granulocytes (b) Mononuclear cells The granulocytes are neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils while mononuclear cells are lymphocytes and monocytes. Neutrophils are also referred to as polymorphonuclear leukocytes. 
polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN). Definitions: 1. common term for granulocyte or granulocytic leukocyte; the term includes basophilic, eosinophilic, and neutrophilic leukocytes, but is usually used especially with reference to the neutrophilic leukocytes. Synonyms: multinuclear leukocyte.
Polymorphonuclear leukocyte: A type of white blood cell with a nucleus that is so deeply lobated or divided that the cell looks to have multiple nuclei. Informally called a poly. 
granulocytes; leukocytes containing abundant granules (lysosomes) in their cytoplasm, including neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils. leukocyte migration-inhibition factor. a lymphokine elaborated by activated T or B lymphocytes that inhibits polymorphonuclear leukocyte migration. polymorphonuclear leukocyte. any of the fully developed, segmented cells of the granulocyte series, especially a neutrophil, whose nuclei contain three or more lobes joined by filamentous connections.
3D Rendering of a Neutrophil. Neutrophil granulocytes (also known as neutrophils) are the most abundant (40% to 75%) type of white blood cells in most mammals and form an essential part of the innate immune system. Functionality varies in different animals. They are formed from stem cells in the bone marrow. They are short-lived and highly motile. Whereas basophilic white blood cells stain dark blue and eosinophilic white blood cells stain bright red, neutrophils stain a neutral pink. Normally, neutrophils contain a nucleus divided into 2–5 lobes. Neutrophils are a type of phagocyte and are normally found in the bloodstream.
This distinguishes them from the mononuclear agranulocytes. In common parlance, the term polymorphonuclear leukocyte often refers specifically to neutrophil granulocytes, the most abundant of the granulocytes; the other types (eosinophils, basophils, and mast cells) have lower numbers. 
Noun. 1. granulocyte-a leukocyte that has granules in its cytoplasm. leucocyte, leukocyte, WBC, white blood cell, white blood corpuscle, white cell, white corpuscle-blood cells that engulf and digest bacteria and fungi; an important part of the body's defense system. Translations.