Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The History of the Christian Fish Symbol. The fish's first known use as a Christian religious symbol was sometime within the first three centuries AD. Christians began using the Greek word for fish as an anagram/acronym for Jesus Christ God's Son, Savior.. More about this later. The fish outline is a logical symbol for the early Christian church to adopt. Not only was fish a common food of the day, it was also used by Jesus during His ministry. 
Upon meeting someone new, a believer would draw half of the fish symbol in the dirt and the other person would either complete the other half of the symbol, thus revealing himself or herself as a Christian, or not recognize the action of the believer, thus revealing himself or herself as not being a believer. Conclusion. The common fish symbol seen on cars, and other places, is a symbol of Christianity. It was initially designed to allow Christians to identify each other while, at the same time, preventing those hostile to Christianity from identifying believers.
Question: What does the Christian fish symbol mean (ixthus / icthus)? Answer: The Greek word for fish is ixthus or icthus.. The Christian fish symbol that many Christians place on their cars is known as the ixthus. Five Greek letters form the word ixthus, and those letters inside the fish form an acrostic which is a message that Christians clearly identified with. The first letter represented the word Jesus. The second letter represented the word Christ, the next two, God Son, and the final letter represented the word Savior
The fish symbol is also similar in shape to the first letter of the Greek alphabet, alpha. In Revelation 22:13 Christ says, “I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.”. Christians using the fish symbol were acknowledging that Christ was Alpha, the first. He was around at the beginning of creation (John 1:1 — “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God”). CHRISTIANS HAVE USED THE FISH SYMBOL — also known as the ichthys (ixthus, icthus) symbol — since the first century. The meaning of the word and symbol is very clever. The word ichthys means fish in Greek, but the letters are also the initials of five Greek words that mean “Jesus Christ, Son of God, Savior” (Iesous Christos Theou Yios Soter
Greeks, Romans, and many other pagans used the fish symbol before Christians. In pagan beliefs, Ichthys was the offspring of the ancient Sea goddess Atargatis, and was known in various mythic systems as Tirgata, Aphrodite, Pelagia, or Delphine. The ichthys or ichthus (/ˈɪkθəs/), from the Greek ikhthýs (ἰχθύς,  fish ), is a symbol consisting of two intersecting arcs, the ends of the right side extending beyond the meeting point so as to resemble the profile of a fish.
The Pagan fish symbol. The 'fish symbol' is today instantly recognised as a Christian symbol but this symbol was in use by Pagans for many generations before Christianity. Ask any Neopagan and they will explain the most common interpretation is its derivation from a simplified image of a woman's womb or vagina
Symbol Meaning. The Greek word for ‘fish’ is ‘ichthus’ (transliterated from the Greek). The early Christians formed an acrostic from these letters as follows: I= Iesous (Jesus); CH=Christos (Christ); TH=Theous (God); U= UIOS (Son); SOTER (Savior). Therefore, the idea of the fish, or the sight of the symbol, would immediately bring to the believer’s mind the good news of Jesus Christ. Conclusion. The common fish symbol seen on cars, and other places, is a symbol of Christianity. It was initially designed to allow Christians to identify each other while, at the same time, preventing those hostile to Christianity from identifying believers.