polynomial. mathematical expression which is a finite sum, each term being a constant times a product of one or more variables raised to powers. With only one variable the general form of a polynomial is a 0 x + a 1 x + a 2 x +…+ a n−1 x + an where n is a positive integer and a 0, a 1, a 2, … , an are any numbers. An example of a polynomial in one variable is 11 x 4 −3 x 3 +7 x 2 + x −8. The degree of a polynomial in one variable is the highest power of the variable appearing with a nonzero coefficient; in the example given above, the degree is 4.
Definition of POLYNOMIAL. : a mathematical expression of one or more algebraic terms each of which consists of a constant multiplied by one or more variables raised to a nonnegative integral power (as a + bx + cx2). 
First degree polynomials are also known as linear polynomials. The name linear, of course, comes from the fact that they are lines. In particular, first degree polynomials are lines which are neither horizontal nor vertical. More often, letter m is used as the coefficient of x instead of a, and is used to represent the slope of the line. Slope describes the rate at which a line rises or falls, comparing vertical change to horizontal change
pol•y•no•mi•al. 1. consisting of or characterized by two or more names or terms. 2. an algebraic expression consisting of the sum of two or more terms. 3. a polynomial name or term. 4. a species name containing more than two terms. 1 order Anaspida. 2  Order and degree of polynomial. 3  Order and Disorder. 4  Order and Execution Management System. 5  Order and Inventory Management System.
Degree of Polynomial. The degree is the value of the greatest exponent of any expression (except the constant) in the polynomial. To find the degree all that you have to do is find the largest exponent in the polynomial. Note: Ignore coefficients -- coefficients have nothing to do with the degree of a polynomial. 
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: A polynomial is a mathematical expression consisting of a sum of terms, each term including a variable or variables raised to a power and multiplied by a coefficient. The simplest polynomials have one variable. A one-variable (univariate) polynomial of degree n has the following form: When n = 2, it is a quadratic equation; when n = 3, it is a cubic equation; when n = 4, it is a quartic equation; when n = 5, it is a quintic equation. The larger the value of n, the more difficult it is to find all the roots of a univariate polynomial equation. Some polynomials have two, three, or more variables.
If no constant term appears, then the constant term is. . The degree of a (nonzero) monomial is the sum of the exponents of its variables. Since. , the degree of a (nonzero) constant is. . Most sources do not define the degree of the polynomial. ; some define the degree of the polynomial. to be. . The degree of a polynomial is the maximum of the degrees of its terms after the polynomial has been expanded. For example, the polynomial. has degree. . The coefficient of a monomial is the numerical (non-variable) portion of the monomial. An expanded polynomial is in descending order if the degrees of the terms of the polynomial are strictly decreasing as the polynomial is read from left to right. Note that, for a polynomial to be written in descending order, all like terms have to be combined. For example, is in descending order
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The degree of a polynomial is the highest degree of its terms when the polynomial is expressed in its canonical form consisting of a linear combination of monomials. The degree of a term is the sum of the exponents of the variables that appear in it. 