Jehovah's Witness' b eliefs and teachings about blood: The Jehovah's Witnesses urges its members to refuse to accept blood transfusions and to not allow them to be given to their children. This is primarily based upon four passages in the Bible which they interpret as prohibiting the consuming of blood:
CHANGES IN WATCHTOWER MEDICAL POLICIES: The banning of blood transfusions is not the only medical stipulation that the Jehovah’s Witness religion has misapplied Scripture to support its unique views. The Watchtower Society once condemned vaccinations as a “devilish practice” and organ transplants as a “cannibalistic” practice. 
Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the Bible prohibits ingesting blood and that Christians should not accept blood transfusions or donate or store their own blood for transfusion. The belief is based on an interpretation of scripture that differs from that of other Christian denominations. When we lose our life because we refuse inoculations, that does not bear witness as a justification of Jehovah's name. God never issued regulations which prohibit the use of drugs, inoculations or blood transfusions. It is an invention of people, who, like the Pharisees, leave Jehovah's mercy and love aside.
Question: Why do Jehovah's Witnesses refuse blood transfusions?. Answer: Acts 15:19-21, 28 is the Scripture Jehovah's Witnesses typically point to as the reason they refuse to accept blood donations. What is the best way to evangelize someone who is in a cult or false religion? Return to: Questions about Cults and Religions Return to: GotQuestions.org Home
In a later article, members were reminded that Jehovah's Witnesses do not donate blood or store their own blood prior to surgery. In May 2001, the Watch Tower Society revised its medical directives and identity cards addressing its doctrinal position on blood; the revised materials were distributed from May 3, 2001. When we lose our life because we refuse inoculations, that does not bear witness as a justification of Jehovah's name. God never issued regulations which prohibit the use of drugs, inoculations or blood transfusions. It is an invention of people, who, like the Pharisees, leave Jehovah's mercy and love aside.
Jehovah's Witnesses do not consume, donate or transfuse blood, because God Himself consistently made it clear for humans to abstain from blood. God began with commanding Noah and his family to abstain from blood. - Jehovah's Witnesses *do not* consume, donate or *transfuse blood*, because God Himself consistently made it clear for humans to abstain from blood. God b... 2 years ago.
Jehovah's Witnesses (WTS) opposition to blood transfusions Biblical passages.Opposition to WTS policies. Sponsored link. Jehovah's Witness' beliefs and teachings about blood: The Jehovah's Witnesses urges its members to refuse to accept blood transfusions and to not allow them to be given to their children. This is primarily based upon four passages in the Bible which they interpret as prohibiting the consuming of blood:
Jehovah's Witnesses do not consume, donate or transfuse blood, because God Himself consistently made it clear for humans to ... - Jehovah's Witnesses *do not* consume, donate or *transfuse blood*, because God Himself consistently made it clear for humans to abstain from blood. God b... 2 years ago.