A kohlrabi!!! A delicious root vegetable that is very rich in vitamin C, just one cup of it has over 100% of your vitamin C daily requirement. The leaves are also edible so I decided to combine both the vegetable and the greens into this Kohlrabi slaw. 
Kohlrabi leaves are edible and can be used interchangeably with collard greens and kale. Kohlrabi is an important part of the Kashmiri diet and one of the most commonly cooked foods. It is prepared with its leaves and served with a light gravy and eaten with rice. Some varieties are grown as feed for cattle. Kohlrabi (German turnip or turnip cabbage; Brassica oleracea Gongylodes Group) is an annual vegetable, and is a low, stout cultivar of cabbage. Kohlrabi can be eaten raw as well as cooked.
There are several varieties commonly available, including White Vienna, Purple Vienna, Grand Duke, Gigante (also known as Superschmelz), Purple Danube, and White Danube. Coloration of the purple types is superficial: the edible parts are all pale yellow. The leafy greens can also be eaten. Kohlrabi (German turnip or turnip cabbage; Brassica oleracea Gongylodes Group) is an annual vegetable, and is a low, stout cultivar of cabbage. Kohlrabi can be eaten raw as well as cooked.
Kohlrabi is a member of the cabbage family, and as such, comes with this family's signature sweet-but-peppery flavor profile. We usually eat the bulbous bottom, but the entire kohlrabi plant is actually edible. The skin has the rubbery texture of broccoli stems and can be white, light green, or bright purple. The insides are usually a creamy white.
The name comes from the German Kohl (cabbage) plus Ruebe ~ Rübe (Rabi Swiss german) ( variant ), turnip because the swollen stem resembles the. Latter kohlrabi is a very commonly eaten vegetable In german speaking. Countries edible preparations are made with both the stem and the. leaves Kohlrabi (German turnip or turnip cabbage; Brassica oleracea Gongylodes Group) is an annual vegetable, and is a low, stout cultivar of cabbage. Kohlrabi can be eaten raw as well as cooked.
Kohlrabi. Kohlrabi is a part of the cabbage family. It was first grown in Europe around 1500 and was imported into America 300 years later. It has a turnip like appearance, with leaves standing out like spokes from the edible portion, which is a rounded, enlarged stem section growing just above the soil line. 
- The kohlrabi is a member of the cabbage (crucifer or mustard) family. The part we eat is the enlarged stem from which the leaves develop. The enlarged stem is best harvested as soon as it grows to a diameter of two to three inches. Kohlrabi may be white, green or purple in color. Leaves of young plants may be used like spinach, or mustard greens. - Kohlrabi is grown as a cool season vegetable and should be planted in very early spring or in early fall. Seeds are planted about 1/4 inch deep in rows about two feet apart and thinned to four inches apart in the row
The avid home gourmet may well ask, “Are kohlrabi leaves edible?” The answer is a resounding, yes. Although the plant is generally grown for the thick bulb, you can also take the smaller leaves that form when the plant is young. These are used much like spinach or collard greens. Kohlrabi greens are thick and taste best when cooked or steamed, but they are also eaten chopped in salads. Harvesting kohlrabi leaves in early spring is the best time to get flavorful, tender greens. Plant seeds in well-prepared soil with plenty of organic amendment in spring one to two weeks before the last frost. 
You can peel and slice kohlrabi thinly and put it raw in salad. Or, you can cook it just as you would a beet or turnip, covered in water and simmered until tender. Then, cube it and toss with a little olive oil or butter, salt and pepper and it is ready to eat. The greens, too, are edible.
A. Kohlrabi is a member of the cabbage family grown for its swollen, turnip-shaped portion of the stem which rests on the ground. The edible portion can be white, purple or green with a creamy white interior. They are eaten raw in salads or can be cooked like a turnip. The part we eat is the enlarged stem from which the leaves develop. The enlarged stem is best harvested as soon as it grows to a diameter of two to three inches. Kohlrabi may be white, green or purple in color. Leaves of young plants may be used like spinach, or mustard greens.