Hot dog rolls. The usual method is to place hot dog in the bun, wrap it with paper towel, the microwave it on high for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes. However, that toughens the bun. A better way is to wrap hot dog in paper and microwave on high for 1 minute, then wrap bun in paper and microwave 8 to 10 seconds (bun stays soft). Five hot dogs take about 2 minutes, ten takes about 3 minutes. 
To cook hot dogs on the stove top, add up to 10 hot dogs to saucepan of boiling water. Return to boil; cover. Remove from heat; let stand 7 min. or until hot dogs are heated through. OSCAR MAYER Franks or Wieners can also be cooked in the microwave. To cook, place 1 hot dog on paper towel. Microwave on HIGH 15 to 20 sec. or until heated through. How long to cook hot dogs. OSCAR MAYER Franks or Wieners can be cooked in just minutes on the grill. Heat the grill to medium heat, then grill the franks 7 to 9 min. or until heated through, turning occasionally. For light varieties, grill just 5 to 7 min. or until heated through, turning occasionally
1 Chili dogs: Place hot dogs in a microwave-safe tray and cover with chili. 2  Microwave as normal, allowing a little extra cooking time for the chili. 3  Serve separate from the buns — guests can pick a bun, then add a hot dog and chili from the other dish. Place the hot dog(s) on a paper towel-lined plate. Paper towels make cleanup a cinch by absorbing grease and moisture that leaks out of the hot dog as it cooks. If you're cooking multiple hot dogs, line them up in a row on the towel, leaving a little space between each. This allows them to cook evenly.
With a microwave, it's possible to have a hot dog ready to eat in under a minute. Cooking multiple hot dogs at once only takes a little longer. Best of all, since hot dogs are pre-cooked, you don't need to worry about under-cooking them — you just need to get them warm enough to eat. Place the hot dog(s) on a paper towel-lined plate. Paper towels make cleanup a cinch by absorbing grease and moisture that leaks out of the hot dog as it cooks. If you're cooking multiple hot dogs, line them up in a row on the towel, leaving a little space between each. This allows them to cook evenly.
Place 1 to 4 hot dogs on a paper plate or a microwave-safe dish with a paper towel. (If you are cooking more than 4 hot dogs, do it in stages.). With the tip of a sharp knife, pierce the hot dog three times; on one end, in the middle, and on the other end. You only need to break the skin. Remove the hot dogs from the microwave. Wrap the bun in a paper towel and zap it for about 15 seconds. You only want to warm the bun. If you over cook the bun in the microwave it will get very hard and chewy as it cools.
1 Sauerkraut dogs: Put an uncooked hot dog in a bun and top with sauerkraut. 2  Wrap the entire hot dog in a paper towel and fold the leftover towel underneath. 3  Microwave as normal, allowing an extra 5-10 seconds per frank. 4  The bun will be somewhat soggy, but this texture pairs well with the sauerkraut. Place the hot dog(s) on a paper towel-lined plate. Paper towels make cleanup a cinch by absorbing grease and moisture that leaks out of the hot dog as it cooks. If you're cooking multiple hot dogs, line them up in a row on the towel, leaving a little space between each. This allows them to cook evenly.
Zap the hot dogs in the microwave in 30 second -1 minute increments until they are defrosted and heated through. Or put the whole package of hot dogs in a bowl of cool water to defrost. It will only take about 20-30 minutes for the whole package to defrost. Remove the hot dogs from the microwave. Wrap the bun in a paper towel and zap it for about 15 seconds. You only want to warm the bun. If you over cook the bun in the microwave it will get very hard and chewy as it cools.
1 Microwave as normal and serve. 2  Chili dogs: Place hot dogs in a microwave-safe tray and cover with chili. 3  Microwave as normal, allowing a little extra cooking time for the chili. 4  Serve separate from the buns — guests can pick a bun, then add a hot dog and chili from the other dish. Place the hot dog(s) on a paper towel-lined plate. Paper towels make cleanup a cinch by absorbing grease and moisture that leaks out of the hot dog as it cooks. If you're cooking multiple hot dogs, line them up in a row on the towel, leaving a little space between each. This allows them to cook evenly.
Cover the hot dogs with another paper towel. Cook on high for 35 seconds. That should be enough to heat them through, but you may have to add another 10-15 seconds. Remove the hot dogs from the microwave. Wrap the bun in a paper towel and zap it for about 15 seconds. You only want to warm the bun. If you over cook the bun in the microwave it will get very hard and chewy as it cools.