Business analysts assist management executives, clients and stockholders by analyzing business practices, identifying potential problems and providing financial or managerial solutions. Many of these professionals choose to specialize as either a budget analyst, financial analyst or management analyst. Career Options. Students who earn a bachelor's degree or master's degree in business administration, finance, accounting or a closely related field may qualify for work as business analysts. Three common types of business analysis positions are profiled in detail below.
1 Directly out of college: Once you’ve earned a bachelor’s degree in information systems, business, accounting, human resources, or any number of related fields, a good next step to secure an entry-level business analyst job is enrolling in a business analysis certificate program. Business Analyst Certifications. Once you’ve completed a professional business analysis training program, you might consider the next step and earn the respected industry certification that can validate your newly-honed skills and potentially give you a competitive advantage.
Most business analyst positions require candidates to have a bachelor's degree in business administration or related degree for entry-level positions. A typical bachelor's degree program in business administration includes coursework in communication, accounting, business, law, and other specialized classes. Find out how to become a business analyst. Research the education requirements and learn about the experience you need to advance your career in business analysis.
Management Analysts. Management analysts are often called management consultants because they provide an outside perspective on a company. They are thus better able to realize problems and develop unique solutions, sometimes by using their previous experiences from other client companies. Financial Analysts. Financial analysts, also known as securities or equity analysts, research a company’s history, finances and profitability to determine whether it is suitable as an investment for mergers, for ratings in independent reports, or through the buying or selling of its stocks and bonds.
The potential business analyst starts with a bachelor’s degree in business or a related field such as finance or accounting. Bachelor's degree programs offer courses in investment management, taxation, basic cost accounting, foundational mathematics, statistics or econometrics, according to the Education Portal website. A business analyst consults with companies to initiate changes that enhance the company’s financial success. Once hired, a business analyst gathers information about a company by observing the day-to-day routines of the employees, looking at the company finances and reading company documents.
By University Alliance. Becoming a business analyst means launching a career of potential opportunity on the leading edge of innovation. Business analyst certification and training can provide a competitive advantage, along with the skills and knowledge you’ll need to land a business analyst job. Business Analyst Certifications. Once you’ve completed a professional business analysis training program, you might consider the next step and earn the respected industry certification that can validate your newly-honed skills and potentially give you a competitive advantage.
Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. A bachelor's degree is sufficient for entry-level employment as a business analyst with some firms. Programs in business administration or subjects that emphasize organization and systemic thinking-such as engineering, computer science or information systems-are relevant options. Career Information At a Glance. A business analyst gathers and organizes information about a business, uses it to identify problems or inefficiencies in business processes, and provides advice about possible solutions. The goal of the position is to enhance a company's profits and efficiency.
Market research analysts typically need a bachelor’s degree in market research or a related field. Many have degrees in fields such as statistics, math, and computer science. Others have backgrounds in business administration, the social sciences, or communications. 
A bachelor’s degree in management or business analysis is the typical entry-level requirement. While a degree focused in on business or management analysis is helpful, these are not common degrees—and a degree in business, technology, or the operational area in which you intend to specialize will also work. While a bachelor’s degree is the lowest entry-level requirement, more and more employers are starting to look for masters degrees in this area. According to the Occupational Outlook Handbook*, 28% of management analysts had a masters degree as of 2010.