When kids learn reading: Milestones that matter. Pat Wolfe, EdD, education consultant, former teacher, and author of Building the Reading Brain, says you can tell by kindergarten-age whether children are likely to have trouble with reading. Ages 11-13: reading to learn. Kids learn to: 1  read to learn about their hobbies and other interests and to study for school. 2  comprehend more fully what they've read. 3  read fiction, including chapter books, and nonfiction, including magazines and newspapers.
Most children learn to read at six years old and become competent readers by around age eight. However, many children are actually capable of learning to read much earlier. A few children are ready to start combining letters and identifying words as early as three years old. Speech. Children start identifying the sounds around them from the earliest age. They may say their first word as early as 6-months old or as late as a year and a half. By the time a child is two years old she may have a vocabulary of 100 words.
It differs, depending on what age the kid learns all of their letters and sounds. Some kids can read at 3 or 4 years old...if their parents teach the phonics. My guess though is that most kids learn at about 5 or 6...right after Kindergarten. But this is just an estimate lol...my son is not that old yet! :P. Many four year olds can recognize several words and a few are reading books on their own. (My oldest was an early reader like this.) Others may not start putting together words until 5 or 6 years of age. Most children can read simple books by about 6-7 years of age. momma2mingbu · 8 years ago.
Ages 6-10: learning to read. Kids learn to: 1  read simple books by mid-first grade and know about 100 common words. 2  understand that letters represent sounds, which form words, by mid-first grade. 3  enjoy a variety of types of stories and talk about characters, settings and events. Ages 11-13: reading to learn. Kids learn to: 1  read to learn about their hobbies and other interests and to study for school. 2  comprehend more fully what they've read. 3  read fiction, including chapter books, and nonfiction, including magazines and newspapers.
Learning to read is built on a foundation of language skills that children start to learn at birtha process that is both complicated and amazing. Most children develop certain skills as they move through the early stages of learning language. By age 7, most children are reading. The following list of accomplishments is based on current scientific research in the fields of reading, early childhood education, and child development. Studies continue in their fields, and there is still much still to learn. 
Every child is different. And also it depends on if you mean reading words or reading a whole book. Many four year olds can recognize several words and a few are reading books on their own. (My oldest was an early reader like this.) Others may not start putting together words until 5 or 6 years of age. Most children can read simple books by about 6-7 years of age. momma2mingbu · 8 years ago.
Most children will learn to read between kindergarten and 2nd grade, but only when someone — a teacher, parent, grandparent, or older friend — teaches them how to do it. 
From this age, schools aim to teach children to read within 3 years so that children should have a solid reading base by the age of nine. However, it is possible for children to learn to read much earlier than this. We will split the skills needed to learn to read into three developmental timelines. Speech. Children start identifying the sounds around them from the earliest age. They may say their first word as early as 6-months old or as late as a year and a half. By the time a child is two years old she may have a vocabulary of 100 words.
Learning to read in school. Most children learn to read by 6 or 7 years of age. Some children learn at 4 or 5 years of age. Even if a child has a head start, she may not stay ahead once school starts. The other students most likely will catch up during the second or third grade. Pushing your child to read before she is ready can get in the way of your child's interest in learning. 