Eloah and Eloah Constructs given in Tanakh. Introduction. The word Eloah is the singular (or dual) of Elohim and appears more than 70 times in the Tanakh, primarily in more poetic passages. The root-meaning of the word is unknown. It is generally thought that the same divine name is found in Arabic (Ilah as singular a god, as opposed to Allah meaning The God or God) and in Aramaic (Elah). God, god (ASV, RSV similar). The exact relationship between this name for God in Scripture and El or Elohim is disputed and far from settled. It occurs in some of the oldest OT poetry (Deut 32:15, 17) and very frequently (forty-one times) in the debates between Job (an ancient believer) and his friends.
The word el (singular) is a standard term for god in Aramaic, paleo-Hebrew, and other related Semitic languages including Ugaritic. The Canaanite pantheon of gods was known as elohim (the gods [plural]). For instance, in the Ugaritic Baal cycle we read of seventy sons of Asherah . It is generally thought that Elohim is a formation from eloah, the latter being an expanded form of the Northwest Semitic noun il (אֵל, ʾēl). The related nouns eloah (אלוה) and el (אֵל) are used as proper names or as generics, in which case they are interchangeable with elohim.
The first Name used for God in scripture is Elohim. In form, the word is a masculine plural of a word that looks feminine in the singular (Eloha). The same word (or, according to Rambam, a homonym of it) is used to refer to princes, judges, other gods, and other powerful beings. 
What is el? This Semitic word refers to the name of a deity, especially as a suffix or prefix, as Isra-el, Beth-el, Dani-el, El-Ijah. El and its plural, Elohim, are the Hebrew words translated “God” in the Bible. In Hebrew, the word Elohim appears in fact as a plural of both male and female, which is a notable exception. It must be concluded that these gods creators had with them their goddesses, to which they were faithful or not, as we watch Zeus in Greek mythology. Between Elohim and the Olympians, the resemblance is great.
Introduction 1. This bible study explains the meaning of each Old Testament Hebrew name of God using El, Eloah and Elohim, and how each of them apply to the Lord Jesus Christ.
Introduction. The word Elohim is the plural of El (or possibly of Eloah) and is the first name for God given. in the Tanakh: In the beginning, God (Elohim) created the heavens and the earth. (Genesis 1:1): The name Elohim is unique to Hebraic thinking: it occurs only in Hebrew and in no other ancient Semitic language. 
The word El in Hebrew represents the idea of one who is strong and has authority, or a strong one with great authority.. Anyone can arrive at this conclusion by studying the context of the passages in the Bible that use the word. What's also fascinating to know is the meaning behind the Hebrew letters of the word. To wrap it all up, we've discovered that the meaning of Elohim in Hebrew is one who is strong and has authority, and that the word is sometimes used to refer to God, and other times it refers to humans.