The Leaning Tower of Pisa it is part of the Cathedral complex. It is in fact the belltower of the church. The Cathedral complex was begun in 1064 by architect Busketo and continued by others like Rainaldo, Diotisalvi, Giovanni di Simone, Nicola and Giovanni Pisano etc. Tower of Pisa leans sideways because it was built on unstable soil. In 1173 construction started on the 180-foot bell tower, which is located in Pisa, a small town in the Italian province of Tuscany. The building began to lean as soon as the first three floors were completed.
The tower of Pisa has been leaning so long -- nearly 840 years -- that it's natural to assume it will defy gravity forever. But the famous structure has been in danger of collapsing almost since its first brick was laid. It began leaning shortly after construction began in 1173. 
The Leaning Tower of Pisa it is part of the Cathedral complex. It is in fact the belltower of the church. The Cathedral complex was begun in 1064 by architect Busketo and continued by others like Rainaldo, Diotisalvi, Giovanni di Simone, Nicola and Giovanni Pisano etc. Tower of Pisa leans sideways because it was built on unstable soil. In 1173 construction started on the 180-foot bell tower, which is located in Pisa, a small town in the Italian province of Tuscany. The building began to lean as soon as the first three floors were completed.
| Filed Under: The World 14 Comments. The Leaning Tower of Pisa is a marble bell tower at Pisa, Italy. Even though the tower has been leaning since it was under construction, it has stood for hundreds of years, despite the fact that it looks as if it might fall any minute. The tower was begun over 800 years ago, in 1173, and after the first three of its eight stories were built, the ground started to sink, and the tower began to lean. It has continued leaning, a millimeter each year, and now leans 14 feet out of line. Still, the lean does not stop thousands of tourists each year from climbing its 300 winding steps to the bell tower to view Pisa and the surrounding countrysid
Its lean is now only about 4 degrees (prior to the all the restoration attempts, the lean was 5.5 degrees), or about 13 feet past perfectly vertical. The Leaning Tower of Pisa should be stable for at least the next 200 years. When work on the tower started again, it was leaning 0.2 degrees north of vertical, but by the time the workers started on the seventh floor, the tower was tilting one degree south. Around this time, construction stopped again for unknown reasons.
The Leaning Tower of Pisa is a freestanding bell tower located in the city of Pisa in Italy. Like its name suggest, it actually does lean to one side. The tower started to lean during construction because the foundation was built on soft ground that had difficulty supporting the weight. 
The leaning tower of Pisa is part of the Cathedral Square in Pisa, Tuscany, Italy, which is a UNESCO world heritage site. Originally it was built as a bell tower (campanile) for the cathedral. The tower has leaned almost since construction started, due to faulty foundation and weak subsoil. 
It is situated behind the Cathedral and is the third oldest structure in Pisa's Cathedral Square (Piazza del Duomo) after the Cathedral and the Baptistery. The tower's tilt began during construction, caused by an inadequate foundation on ground too soft on one side to properly support the structure's weight. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Leaning Tower of Pisa (Italian: Torre pendente di Pisa) or simply the Tower of Pisa (Torre di Pisa) is the campanile, or freestanding bell tower, of the cathedral of the Italian city of Pisa, known worldwide for its unintended tilt.
Believe it or not the Leaning Tower of Pisa was not designed to lean. Construction began in the 1173 and it wasn't completed until 1372! That's a whopping 199 years! Very early on the engineer realised that the tower was beginning to lean, and despite their best efforts the tower continued to tilt as the build continued. Over time the tower's tilt increased at an average rate of 1mm every year.