3. Record the journal entries for the establishment of the deferred compensation plan. When the plan is established (in 2010), it represents a liability; that is, an obligation to pay the employee. An entry must be recorded in the general journal to reflect the establishment of the pay plan
An amount of earned income that is payable at a later date. Most deferred-compensation plans allow the wage earner to defer tax now so that the funds can be withdrawn and taxed at some point in the future. Next Up
In the US, Internal Revenue Code section 409A regulates the treatment for federal income tax purposes of “non-qualified deferred compensation”, the timing of deferral elections and of distributions. Deferred compensation is also sometimes referred to as deferred comp, qualified deferred compensation, DC, non-qualified deferred comp, NQDC or golden handcuffs. Deferred compensation is only available to employees of public entities, senior management, and other highly compensated employees of companies.
1 Plan: a non-qualified deferred compensation plan can be established for one individual (for example, an agreement for one employee), or can be established for a large number of individuals selected in the complete discretion of the company (for example, a plan for all the highly paid employees of the company). A non-qualified deferred compensation plan or agreement simply defers the payment of a portion of the employee’s compensation to a future date.
2. Determine the terms of the deferred compensation package. Understanding the structure of the pay package is essential to executing the proper accounting treatment. For example, consider a compensation plan issued in 2010 that will pay out a lump sum of $100,000 to an employee in 2015. Record the journal entries for the establishment of the deferred compensation plan. When the plan is established (in 2010), it represents a liability; that is, an obligation to pay the employee. An entry must be recorded in the general journal to reflect the establishment of the pay plan
Examples of deferred compensation include pensions, retirement plans, and employee stock options. The primary benefit of most deferred compensation is the deferral of tax to the date(s) at which the employee actually receives the income. Deferred compensation is also sometimes referred to as deferred comp, qualified deferred compensation, DC, non-qualified deferred comp, NQDC or golden handcuffs. Deferred compensation is only available to employees of public entities, senior management, and other highly compensated employees of companies.
These are only a few of the restrictions on contributions for qualified benefit plans. NQDC plans allow you to provide deferred compensation to your employees in excess of these qualified plan limits.Example(s): Richard and Mary work at BCD Corporation. Richard earns $300,000 in 2011 while Mary earns $100,000. 
In the United States, the question whether any compensation plan is qualified or non-qualified is primarily a question of taxation under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). Any business prefers to deduct its expenses from its income, which will reduce the income subject to taxation. A non-qualified deferred compensation plan or agreement simply defers the payment of a portion of the employee’s compensation to a future date.
Definition. An arrangement in which a portion of an employee's income is paid out at a date after which that income is actually earned. Examples of deferred compensation include pensions, retirement plans, and stock options. The primary benefit of most deferred compensation is the deferral of tax