But if these bacteria become resistant to antibiotics, they can cause serious infections, especially in people who are ill or weak. MRSA is different from other types of staph because it cannot be treated with certain antibiotics such as methicillin. MRSA infections are more difficult to treat than ordinary staph infections. This is because the strains of staph known as MRSA do not respond well to many common antibiotics used to kill bacteria. These infections can occur among people who have scratches, cuts, or wounds and who have close contact with one another, such as members of sports teams. This type of MRSA is called community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA).
Methicillin Sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) Fact Sheet What is MRSA? p MSSA stands for methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus. What types of infections does it cause? MSSA usually cause skin infections, but can also cause pneumonia, and other serious types of infections. 
Staphylococcus aureus [staf I lō-kok is aw ree us] (staph), is a type of bacteria that about 30% of people carry in their noses. Most of the time, staph does not cause any harm; however, sometimes staph causes infections. 
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a bacteria that is resistant to many antibiotics. In the community, most MRSA infections are skin infections. In medical facilities, MRSA causes life-threatening bloodstream infections, pneumonia and surgical site infections. 
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) - Overview. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a type of staphylococcus or  staph  bacterium that is resistant to many antibiotics. Staph bacteria, like other kinds of bacteria, normally live on your skin and in your nose, usually without causing problems. These infections can occur among people who have scratches, cuts, or wounds and who have close contact with one another, such as members of sports teams. This type of MRSA is called community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA).
S. aureus can cause a range of illnesses, from minor skin infections, such as pimples, impetigo, boils, cellulitis, folliculitis, carbuncles, scalded skin syndrome, and abscesses, to life-threatening diseases such as pneumonia, meningitis, osteomyelitis, endocarditis, toxic shock syndrome, bacteremia, and sepsis. It is often positive for catalase and nitrate reduction. Although S. aureus is not always pathogenic, it is a common cause of skin infections such as abscesses, respiratory infections such as sinusitis, and food poisoning.
MSSA refers to methicillin sensitive staphylococcus aureus. Staphylococcus aureus is a type of bacteria that can commonly be found in the skin or inside the respiratory passage. This particular bacterium is typically classified as methicillin sensitive or methicillin resistant. If the classification is MSSA, then it simply indicates that the bacterium in question is sensitive or reacts to the antibiotic drug called methicillin. On the other hand, Staphylococcus bacterium that is resistant to methicillin treatment is called MRSA. The presence of staphylococcus aureus may cause infection to many parts of the body. Some will not present any symptoms while in other parts, the presence of this type of bacterium can lead to severe medical concerns
Staphylococcus aureus is a gram-positive coccal bacterium that is a member of the Firmicutes, and is frequently found in the respiratory tract and on the skin forms where perspiration is present. It is often positive for catalase and nitrate reduction. Although S. aureus is not always pathogenic, it is a common cause of skin infections such as abscesses, respiratory infections such as sinusitis, and food poisoning. Pathogenic strains often promote infections by producing potent protein toxins, and expressing cell-surface proteins that bind and inactivate antibodies