In other cases, each parent provides a different allele of a given gene, and the offspring is referred to as heterozygous (hetero meaning different) for that allele. Alleles produce phenotypes (or physical versions of a trait) that are either dominant or recessive. Although an individual gene may code for a specific physical trait, that gene can exist in different forms, or alleles. One allele for every gene in an organism is inherited from each of that organism's parents.
Somatic cells contain two alleles for every gene, with one allele provided by each parent of an organism. Often, it is impossible to determine which two alleles of a gene are present within an organism's chromosomes based solely on the outward appearance of that organism. Although an individual gene may code for a specific physical trait, that gene can exist in different forms, or alleles. One allele for every gene in an organism is inherited from each of that organism's parents.
In humans, eye color is an example of an inherited characteristic: an individual might inherit the brown-eye trait from one of the parents. Inherited traits are controlled by genes and the complete set of genes within an organism's genome is called its genotype. The complete set of observable traits of the structure and behavior of an organism is called its phenotype. These traits arise from the interaction of its genotype with the environment.
Genetics is the study of genes, heredity, and genetic variation in living organisms. It is generally considered a field of biology, but it intersects frequently with many of the life sciences and is strongly linked with the study of information systems. The father of genetics is Gregor Mendel, a late 19th-century scientist and Augustinian friar. Mendel studied 'trait inheritance', patterns in the way traits were handed down from parents to offspring. He observed that organisms (pea plants) inherit traits by way of discrete units of inheritance
Heredity is the passing of phenotypic traits from parents to their offspring, either through asexual reproduction or sexual reproduction. This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism. Through heredity, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause some species to evolve through the natural selection of specific phenotype traits. Inherited traits are controlled by genes and the complete set of genes within an organism's genome is called its genotype. The complete set of observable traits of the structure and behavior of an organism is called its phenotype. These traits arise from the interaction of its genotype with the environment.
when they mate they get 2 Y genes from the mom(the zebra or the quagga) and 2 X genes from the Dad(the zebra or the quagga) and then they combine and which genes are dominant … tell whether its a girl or boy. 7 people found this useful. Share to: 1  Biology 101: Defining Monohybrid Crosses A monohybrid cross is one of the simplest parts of genetic biology and is easy to define. 2  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
These chromosomes come in pairs and they are copied each time a cell divid … es. However, in the ovaries or testes of the parents the process of cell devision is modified so that the egg or sperm cells end up with just one half of each pair of chromosomes from the parent. Share to: 1  Biology 101: Defining Monohybrid Crosses A monohybrid cross is one of the simplest parts of genetic biology and is easy to define. 2  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
The chromosomes are the ones that carry genes from parents to  offspring. This is done through meiosis where sex cells are  produced. Share to: 1  Biology 101: Defining Monohybrid Crosses A monohybrid cross is one of the simplest parts of genetic biology and is easy to define. 2  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
So children have 50% of each of their parents' DNA, but that doesn't translate into 50% of their traits. Which parent a child most resembles is basically down to chance, but their overall genetic make-up has an equivalent contribution from each parent. That means if you have one of the pair of genes being dominant and the other recessive, the gene for the dominant trait will be expressed. So even if there is equal contribution, one wins out over the other. So if one parent has more recessive traits, than the other, those will not show up in the offspring.