The arteries are perceived as carrying oxygenated blood to the tissues, while veins carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart. This is true of the systemic circulation, by far the larger of the two circuits of blood in the body, which transports oxygen from the heart to the tissues of the body. However, in pulmonary circulation, the arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs, and veins return blood from the lungs to the heart. The difference between veins and arteries is their direction of flow (out of the heart by arteries, returning to the heart for veins), not their oxygen content.
Pulmonary arteries carry the blood from the heart and into the lungs, the cartrid artery carries the blood from the heart to the head and arms. renal arteries carry blood to t … he liver. They are the largest form of vessel. In other words Arteries are blood vessels that carry rich blood away from the heart throughout the body. Arteries send rich blood away throughout the cells.
Types of arteries and veins. There are two types of arteries in the body: Pulmonary and systemic. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart, to the lungs, for purification while the systemic arteries form a network of arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to other parts of the body. Veins can be classified as pulmonary veins and systemic veins. The pulmonary veins are a set of veins that deliver oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart and the Systemic veins drain the tissues of the body and deliver deoxygenated blood to the heart.
veins are important because they carry de-oxygenated blood from all parts of the body back to the heart, which sends blood to the lungs which then returns to the heart so tha … t oxygen can be carried in the blood to all parts of the body. (the body uses it in cellular respiration). 6 people found this useful. 
Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. There are valves in most veins to prevent backflow. However, in pulmonary circulation, the arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs, and veins return blood from the lungs to the heart. The difference between veins and arteries is their direction of flow (out of the heart by arteries, returning to the heart for veins), not their oxygen content.
There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification. Veins can be classified as pulmonary veins and systemic veins. The pulmonary veins are a set of veins that deliver oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart and the Systemic veins drain the tissues of the body and deliver deoxygenated blood to the heart.
Learn some important differences between arteries (high pressure/low volume) and veins (low pressure/high volume). Rishi is a pediatric infectious disease physician and works at Khan Academy. Back. 
Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein). Veins can be classified as pulmonary veins and systemic veins. The pulmonary veins are a set of veins that deliver oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart and the Systemic veins drain the tissues of the body and deliver deoxygenated blood to the heart.
Arteries and Veins. As we stated on the previous page, What Is High Blood Pressure , arteries and veins are both part of the circulatory system and carry blood from the heart to the lungs and to all other parts of our bodies. Both are very important in maintaining our blood pressure. Though they both carry blood through our bodies they are very different and are even made of different tissue and perform their own functions in specific ways. Arteries. Arteries carry blood which is full of oxygen away from the heart. Arteries have three layers of tissue-the outside and inside layers are made of a connective tissue which covers the muscular middle layer of smooth muscle, and elastic fibers. These tissues provide a smooth path for our blood to flow through