1 A comfortable room temperature would be around 70 degrees Fahrenheit, or 21 degrees Celsius. 2  A pot of boiling water is 212 degrees Fahrenheit, or 100 degrees Celsius. 3  A cold and windy winter day would have a chill factor that might be below freezing at 23 degrees Fahrenheit, or -5 degrees Celsius. The device used to measure temperature is a thermometer. 1  A typical thermometer is a calibrated, or numbered, glass tube that contains mercury. 2  The silver mercury in the tube rises, or expands, when warmth of an object increases.
Room temperature may be 20 degrees Celsius that is equal to 68 degrees Fahrenheit.   There is no fixed room temperature. I feel a bit chilly at 68 F (20 C) in the winter ti … me and warm at 75 F (22 C) in the summer. Most people are comfortable at temperatures in this range. The average normal human body temperature is 37 degrees C (98.6 degress F) but it can vary somewhat for an individual. The average adult temperature is 36.8 degrees C (98.2 … degrees F). Older people will average a bit less. These values can also vary with time of day, with a typical individual range of 0.5 degrees C (0.9 degrees F) Temperatures can and will be markedly different with exposure to cold or hot environmental temperatures
The average room temperature in Celsius is 23 degrees. That would translate to 74.3 degrees Fahrenheit or close to 298 degree Kelvins. The average normal human body temperature is 37 degrees C (98.6 degress F) but it can vary somewhat for an individual. The average adult temperature is 36.8 degrees C (98.2 … degrees F). Older people will average a bit less. These values can also vary with time of day, with a typical individual range of 0.5 degrees C (0.9 degrees F) Temperatures can and will be markedly different with exposure to cold or hot environmental temperature
Mercury-in-glass thermometer for measurement of room temperature. Room temperature is a colloquial expression for the typical or preferred indoor (climate-controlled) temperature to which people are generally accustomed. Room temperature implies a temperature inside a temperature-controlled building. Ambient temperature simply means the temperature of the surroundings and will be the same as room temperature indoors.
Room temperature may be 20 degrees Celsius that is equal to 68 degrees Fahrenheit.   There is no fixed room temperature. I feel a bit chilly at 68 F (20 C) in the winter ti … me and warm at 75 F (22 C) in the summer. Most people are comfortable at temperatures in this range. 3 people found this useful. The average normal human body temperature is 37 degrees C (98.6 degress F) but it can vary somewhat for an individual. The average adult temperature is 36.8 degrees C (98.2 … degrees F). Older people will average a bit less. These values can also vary with time of day, with a typical individual range of 0.5 degrees C (0.9 degrees F) Temperatures can and will be markedly different with exposure to cold or hot environmental temperatures
1 The average human body temperature is 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit, or 37 degrees Celsius. 2  A hot summer day in Sacramento would be close to 100 degrees Fahrenheit, or 38 degrees Celsius. 3  A comfortable room temperature would be around 70 degrees Fahrenheit, or 21 degrees Celsius. The device used to measure temperature is a thermometer. 1  A typical thermometer is a calibrated, or numbered, glass tube that contains mercury. 2  The silver mercury in the tube rises, or expands, when warmth of an object increases.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Definition: Room temperature is a range of temperatures that denote comfortable habitation for humans. There is no 'exact' room temperature. Room temperature can be any temperature between 20 °C and 29 °C. 300 K can also be used as room temperature for easy calculations when using absolute temperature. Related Articles.
How much energy does it take to raise the temperature of an average room by 10 degrees? Assume the room is about 300 square feet and is in a well insulated building. Assume the temperature of the room is to be raised from 60 degrees F to 70 degrees F, or whatever makes the calculations easy. Assume the ceiling height is average, and that there are minimal losses (maybe some heat escapes via windows or under the doorway). 