An abbreviation formed from the initial letters of other words and pronounced as a word (e.g. ASCII, NASA). Compare with initialism. Example sentences. 1  A whole language of abbreviated words and acronyms has developed with the huge popularity of the text message. Acrophobia (late 19th century) is fear of heights. An acronym (mid 20th century) is a word such as laser or Aids formed from the initial letters of other words, and an acrostic (late 16th century) is a poem or puzzle in which the first letters in each line form a word or words.
noun. The definition of an acronym is a word formed from the first letter or first few letters of each word in a phrase or title. Radar (radio detecting and ranging) and NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) are each an example of an acronym. acronym. Noun. (plural acronyms). 1  An abbreviation formed by (usually initial) letters taken from a word or series of words, that is itself pronounced as a word, such as RAM, radar, or scuba; sometimes contrasted with initialism.
Share. By Richard Nordquist. Definition: A word formed from the initial letters of a name (for example, NATO, from North Atlantic Treaty Organization) or by combining initial letters of a series of words (radar, from radio detection and ranging). Adjective: acronymic. 
An acronym is a word derived from the initial letters of the words of a phrase: For example, the word radar comes from  Ra dio D etection a nd R anging. By contrast, a backronym is constructed by creating a new phrase to fit an already existing word, name, or acronym. 
Acronyms are shortened versions of a word, such as: N.A.S.A (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) U.S.A (United States of America) U.N (United Nations) An ac … ronym is a word formed from initials. For example, NASA is an acronym for National Aeronautics and Space Administration.. Typically, an acronym consists of the first letter of most words. And, of, the, for are just some of the words that are not used in an acronym. Usually, the words used are capitalized
An acronym is an abbreviation, used as a word, which is formed from the initial components in a phrase or a word. Usually these components are individual letters (as in NATO or laser) or parts of words or names (as in Benelux). While initial letters are commonly used to form an acronym, the original definition was a word made from the initial letters or syllables of other words, for example UNIVAC from UNIVersal Automatic Computer. In English, acronyms pronounced as words may be a 20th-century phenomenon.
An acronym uses the first letter or letters from the words in a phrase or name to form an abbreviated term. Examples are USA, UK, FDR, JFK, FBI, CIA, MIT, IBM, AARP, CPU, DVD, … and LOL. Some acronyms have multiple meanings. 
Summing up: 1  An abbreviation is a shortening of a word or a phrase. 2  An acronym is an abbreviation that forms a word. 3  An initialism is an abbreviation that uses the first letter of each word in the phrase (thus, some but not all initialisms are acronyms). 
Abbreviation is the word formation process in which a word or phrase is shortened. Initialisms are a type of abbreviation formed by the initial letters of a word or phrase. Although abbreviation is largely a convention of written language, sometimes abbreviations carry over into spoken language. Acronyms are words formed by the word formation process in which an initialism is pronounced as a word. For example, HIV is an initialism for Human Immunodeficiency Virus that is spoken as the three letters H-I-V. However, AIDS is an acronym for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome that is spoken as the word aids