adjective. 1  denoting, relating to, or having the style of architecture used in W and S Europe from the 9th to the 12th century, characterized by the rounded arch, the groin vault, massive-masonry wall construction, and a restrained use of mouldings. 1 Trends. 2
: of or relating to a style of architecture developed in Italy and western Europe between the Roman and the Gothic styles and characterized in its development after 1000 by the use of the round arch and vault, substitution of piers for columns, decorative use of arcades, and profuse ornament. — Romanesque noun. Romanesque. adjective Ro·man·esque \ˌrō-mə-ˈnesk\. Tweet. : of or relating to a style of architecture that was used in Europe during the 11th and 12th centuries and that included round arches, thick and heavy walls, and small windows.
Romanesque architecture is an architectural style of medieval Europe characterized by semi-circular arches. Combining features of ancient Roman and Byzantine buildings and other local traditions, Romanesque architecture is known by its massive quality, thick walls, round arches, sturdy pillars, groin vaults, large towers and decorative arcading.
Definition of ROMANESQUE ARCHITECTURE. : the architecture or style that developed in Italy and various parts of western Europe between the periods of the Roman and the Gothic styles: a: a continuation before a.d. 1000 of the Early Christian style in unvaulted basilican churches marked by the development of the cruciform plan with choirs and ...
1. Romanesque-a style of architecture developed in Italy and western Europe between the Roman and the Gothic styles after 1000 AD; characterized by round arches and vaults and by the substitution of piers for columns and profuse ornament and arcades. Romanesque architecture. architectural style, style of architecture, type of architecture-architecture as a kind of art form. Norman architecture-a Romanesque style first appearing in Normandy around 950 AD and used in Britain from the Norman Conquest until the 12th century.
1 denoting, relating to, or having the style of architecture used in W and S Europe from the 9th to the 12th century, characterized by the rounded arch, the groin vault, massive-masonry wall construction, and a restrained use of mouldings. 1 Trends. 2 
Romanesque architecture. Romanesque architecture is an architectural style of Medieval Europe characterized by semi-circular arches. There is no consensus for the beginning date of the Romanesque architecture, with proposals ranging from the 6th to the 10th century.
Romanesque. adj. 1. (Architecture) denoting, relating to, or having the style of architecture used in W and S Europe from the 9th to the 12th century, characterized by the rounded arch, the groin vault, massive-masonry wall construction, and a restrained use of mouldings. See also Norman 6. Romanesque architecture. architectural style, style of architecture, type of architecture-architecture as a kind of art form. Norman architecture-a Romanesque style first appearing in Normandy around 950 AD and used in Britain from the Norman Conquest until the 12th century.
Noun. 1. Romanesque architecture-a style of architecture developed in Italy and western Europe between the Roman and the Gothic styles after 1000 AD; characterized by round arches and vaults and by the substitution of piers for columns and profuse ornament and arcades. Romanesque. Romanesque. architectural style, style of architecture, type of architecture-architecture as a kind of art form. Norman architecture-a Romanesque style first appearing in Normandy around 950 AD and used in Britain from the Norman Conquest until the 12th century.