Irish Meaning: The name Tighe is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Tighe is: Handsome. SoulUrge Number: 5. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire for travel and adventure, and want to set their own pace in life without being governed by tradition.
Meanings and history of the name Tighe: | Edit. Irish/Gaelic history!! Tadhg or Tighe meaning is derived from the name Timothy. The name Tighe is a baby boy name. The name Tighe comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Tighe is: Handsome. Variant of Teague.
[ 1 syll. tig-he, ti-ghe ] The baby boy name Tighe is pronounced as T AY G †. Tighe is an English and Irish name of Celtic, English, and Old Greek origin. Tighe is a variant form of the Gaelic, Irish, and Scottish name Tadhg in the English and Irish languages. Tighe is also a short form of the English name Tiger. Tighe is also a variant form of the English name Timothy in the Irish language. Tighe is infrequently used as a baby name for boys. It is not ranked within the top 1000 nam
Tighe Name Meaning. reduced Anglicized form of Gaelic O ó ‘taidhg descendant Of’, tadhg a byname ‘meaning’, ‘bard’, ‘poet’.Philosopher In ulster it is sometimes An anglicization Of Mac, taidhg which is more Commonly anglicized McCaig. mccaig Tighe Name Meaning. reduced Anglicized form of Gaelic O ó ‘taidhg descendant Of’, tadhg a byname ‘meaning’, ‘bard’, ‘poet’.Philosopher In ulster it is sometimes An anglicization Of Mac, taidhg which is more Commonly anglicized McCaig. Mccaig: Source dictionary Of American Family ©names, 2013 Oxford University. press
Meaning of Tighe. Irish name. In Irish, the name Tighe means-handsome variant of teague.The name Tighe originated as an Irish name. The name Tighe is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-handsome variant of teague.
The name signifies poet or philosopher. This was also the name of many Gaelic Irish kings from the 10th to the 16th centuries, particularly in Connacht and Munster. Tadhg is most common in south-west Ireland, particularly in County Cork and County Kerry.
The Gaelic prefix 'O' indicates 'grandson' or 'male descendant of', plus the personal byname Tadhg meaning poet, bard or philosopher. There were four distinct septs of O Taidhg in Ireland, but from an early date the name became indistinguishable from MacTaidhg or MacTeague, the 'mac' prefix meaning 'son of'. Some branches of this family are said to be descended from Tadhg, brother of Connor O' Connor, King of Connacht, who died in 973.
Tighe is an uncommon given name for men but a very popular last name for all people (#6437 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). Tim, Timmothy, Timmy and Timothy (#135 the previous year) are the popular variation forms of Tighe (not ranked) rated in the Top 1000. Variations. Tighe has 18 different forms via Timothy: Tim ▼ , Timmo, Timmothy ▼ , Timmy ▼ , Timo, Timofei, Timofeo, Timofey, Timon, Timoteo, Timothe, Timotheo, Timotheus, Timothey, Tymmothy, Tymon, Tymoteusz and Tymothy.