Heartburn is caused by acid reflux when stomach acid splashes from the stomach up into the esophagus. Heartburn triggers differ from person to person, but most people have similar heartburn symptoms. 
For the novel, see Heartburn (novel) . Heartburn, also known as pyrosis, cardialgia, or acid indigestion, is a burning sensation in the chest, just behind the breastbone or in the epigastrium, the upper central abdomen. The pain often rises in the chest and may radiate to the neck, throat, or angle of the jaw. Symptoms of heartburn can be confused with the pain that is a symptom of an acute myocardial infarction and angina. A description of burning or indigestion-like pain increases the risk of acute coronary syndrome, but not to a statistically significant level.
Although the name suggests it, heartburn has nothing to do with the heart. In fact, it's caused by a problem with the upper digestive system. Heartburn may happen when your stomach acid comes up or refluxes into the esophagus where it doesn't belong. Because the esophagus isn't built to deal with acid the way your stomach is, the acid can cause a burning sensation in the chest. That burning sensation is called heartburn
Find out more about PPIs, over-the-counter options for acid reflux, and other treatment options. Heartburn is a symptom created by acid reflux, which results in the diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) if it persists and happens more than twice a week. It is a very common symptom described by an internal burning pain felt around the lower chest area. 
Heartburn is a sensation of burning in the chest caused by stomach acid backing up into the esophagus (food pipe). The burning is usually in the upper and central part of the chest, just behind the sternum (breast bone). The burning can worsen or can be brought on by lying flat or on the right side. Heartburn is a common cause of a burning sensation in the chest and chest pain. Heartburn can be associated with symptoms such as: 1  a sour taste in the mouth, 2  dry cough, 3  hoarseness, 4  sore throat, and. 5  difficulty swallowing
Heartburn is a symptom that rarely has anything to do with your heart. It occurs when you feel a burning sensation in your chest that is often accompanied by a bitter taste in your throat or mouth. 
Despite its name, heartburn has nothing to do with the heart. Some of the symptoms, however, are similar to those of a heart attack or heart disease. Heartburn is an irritation of the esophagus that is caused by stomach acid. This can create a burning discomfort in the upper abdomen or below the breast bone. The basic cause of heartburn is a lower esophageal sphincter, or LES, that doesn't tighten as it should. Two excesses often contribute to this problem: too much food in the stomach (overeating) or too much pressure on the stomach (frequently from obesity, pregnancy, or constipation).
The terms indigestion includes heartburn along with a number of other symptoms. Indigestion is sometimes defined as a combination of epigastric pain and heartburn. Heartburn is commonly used interchangeably with gastroesophageal reflux disease rather than just to describe a symptom of burning in one's chest. Symptoms of heartburn can be confused with the pain that is a symptom of an acute myocardial infarction and angina. A description of burning or indigestion-like pain increases the risk of acute coronary syndrome, but not to a statistically significant level.
Heartburn Symptoms. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), is a condition in which heartburn is a symptom. Stomach acid refluxes up into esophagus and causes pain. This pain can be felt as a burning sensation behind the sternum or breastbone, either as a spasm or a sharp pain. The pain of acid reflux (heartburn) can remain in the lower chest or it can radiate to the back of the throat and be associated with waterbrash, a sour taste in the back of the throat. If there is acid reflux near the larynx (voicebox) in the throat, it may cause coughing episodes or hoarseness.