ORANGUTAN GEOGRAPHICAL RANGE. Orangutans are now found only on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra with the Sumatran species limited to the northern part of the island. Sumatran orangutans are fragmented into 9 separate populations, all of which are located in the Indonesian provinces of Aceh and North Sumatra. 
Orangutan Ecology. Geographical range, diet: Orangutans are currently found only on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra with the Sumatran species limited to the northern part of the island. Orangutans on both islands are mostly found in peat swamp forests, tropical heath forests, and mixed dipterocarp forests. Taxonomy, morphology, growth, evolution: There are two species of orangutans, Pongo pygmaeus in Borneo, and Pongo abelii in Sumatra. They are the largest arboreal animals in the world and their bodies are adapted to eat, sleep, and move in the forest canopy.
Orangutan Habitat. Orangutans are the largest arboreal mammal in the world. Their preferred habitat is low-lying peat-swamp forest-they are rarely found in habitats over an altitude of 800m. 
Wild orangutans live only on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra. Their population on Sumatra is currently limited to the provinces of Aceh and North Sumatra. Most Sumatran orangutans (Pongo abelii) are found in Aceh. Bornean orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus - 3 subspecies) are found in scattered populations in Malaysian Borneo (Sarawak and Sabah) and Indonesian Borneo (Central, East and West Kalimantan).
For the two species of orangutans found on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo in southeast Asia, mature tropical rainforests are essential to their survival. Orangutans live entirely in trees. The reason why orangutans are endangered can be summed up with two words: habitat loss. The number of orangutans on Borneo dropped by over half in the last 60 years. On Sumatra, the orangutan population is just one-fifth of what it was 75 years ago. Sumatran orangutans are the most endangered great ape in the world. Unfortunately, their future is bleak.
The orangutans (also spelled orang-utan, orangutang, or orang-utang) are the two exclusively Asian species of extant great apes. Native to Indonesia and Malaysia, orangutans are currently found in only the rainforests of Borneo and Sumatra. The name orangutan (also written orang-utan, orang utan, orangutang, and ourang-outang) is derived from the Malay and Indonesian words orang meaning person and hutan meaning forest, thus person of the forest. Orang Hutan was originally not used to refer to apes, but to forest-dwelling humans.
Search for: Orangutans are the only great apes of Asia, found in Southeast Asia on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra. Along with bonobos, chimpanzees, and gorillas, orangutans are remarkably similar to humans in terms of anatomy, physiology, and behavior. Taxonomy, morphology, growth, evolution: There are two species of orangutans, Pongo pygmaeus in Borneo, and Pongo abelii in Sumatra. They are the largest arboreal animals in the world and their bodies are adapted to eat, sleep, and move in the forest canopy.
Two islands in southeast Asia  Borneo and Sumatra  are the only places where orangutans live. Each island has its own species of orangutan, that's named after the island. So Sumatran orangutans live on Sumatra and Bornean orangutans live on Borneo. Sumatra is part of Indonesia, while Borneo is divided among three countries. Bornean orangutans live in both Indonesia and Malaysia. Overall, Indonesia is where about 80 percent of the world's wild orangutans remain. Bornean Orangutans. Bornean orangutans are divided into three subspecies, each occupying different parts of the Island. All the subspecies are found in Indonesia and two also live in the Malaysian portion of Borneo. The map of Borneo, below, shows colored in orange–brown, where orangutans lived as of 2004. Where orangutans live on Borneo is colored in orange–brow