In 2007 the £12.5 million National Cold War Exhibition was opened at Cosford by Her Royal Highness Princess Anne. This land mark building truly has the ‘wow’ factor with its eye catching architecture and design. A number of the 19 aircraft are suspended in flying attitudes.
The Royal Air Force Museum Cosford is located in Shropshire and offers a fun, entertaining day out for all the entire family. Situated next to an active airfield, this is the only place in the Midlands where you can get close to so many breathtaking aircraft for free.
Here is a selection of highlights from the 2015 RAF Cosford Airshow, which is the only Royal Air Force show of the year as Waddington Airbase is being upgra...
FOLLOW US. The aircraft on display at the RAF Cosford Air Show are the undoubted stars of the show. Below are images of aircraft we plan to have on display both in the air and on the ground on Sunday 19th June 2016. More aircraft will be added to the line-up as they are confirmed.
NEW RAF COSFORD 2015 HIGHLIGHTS (airshowvision)Here is a selection of highlights from the 2015 RAF Cosford Airshow, which is the only Royal Air Force show of the year as Waddington Airbase is being upgra...youtube.com. NEW RAF COSFORD 2015 HIGHLIGHTS (airshowvision).
detailed map of Cosford and near places. Welcome to the Cosford google satellite map! This place is situated in Warwickshire County, West Midlands, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 52° 24' 0 North, 1° 16' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Cosford.
The aircraft on display at the RAF Cosford Air Show are the undoubted stars of the show. Below are images of aircraft we plan to have on display both in the air and on the ground on Sunday 19th June 2016.
RAF Apprenticeships, as delivered at RAF Cosford, were recently recognised as ‘Outstanding’ by Ofsted. The world renowned RAF Museum is adjacent to the site. Given the Station’s rural location, it has good road connections to the A41 and M6/M5 motorways.