Per Diem Rates are a daily allowance for lodging and meals as set by the GSA (Government Services Administration). The GSA is a policy related agency of the federal government that oversees many travel related functions. The Per Diem Meals rate for government travelers is paid at a flat reimbursement rate regardless of how much is spent on meals, so unlike lodging, a traveler can pocket the difference if spending less than the authorized meals rate.
Per Diem Lodging & Meals. The GSA government travel rates include a Lodging and a separately authorized Meals and Incidentals rate. The two Per Diem Rate categories: Lodging & M&IE (Meals & Incidentals Expense) have a combined maximum per diem rate for each specific TDY Location. For example if the per diem lodging rate is $100/night and a traveler spends $75/night, the government will reimburse the traveler at $75/night. Meals are where a traveler can make money.. We explain the per diem meals rate below
Foreign Per Diem rates are established monthly by the Office of Allowances as maximum U.S. dollar rates for reimbursement of U.S. Government civilians traveling on official business in foreign areas. The maximum per diem rates for foreign countries are based on costs reported in the Hotel and Restaurant Survey (Form DS-2026) submitted by U.S. government post
Per Diem rates are given for specific locations. The rates range from $129 per day in the Continental US (CONUS), and up to $823 per day in Out of CONUS (or OCONUS) locations. Again, the total rate is split between your lodging and your Meals and Incidental Expenses. Establishes a flat rate per diem allowance for long term TDY that would authorize a traveler 75% of the locality per diem rate for TDY periods over 30 days but not exceeding 180 days.
The Per Diem Allowance. Each year the DoD Per Diem, Travel and Transportation Committee sets the Per Diem allowance. The Per Diem is specific to a given travel location and can range from a standard CONUS rate from $140 per day up to $702 per day for Out-of-CONUS rates. The per diem ta bles on this website have the PMRs already computed. The examples below using the Standard CONUS M&IE rate of $46.00 and the Standard GMR of $11.85 show how to compute a PMR amount. The $46.00 consists of $41.00 for meals and $5.00 for incidental expenses.
The proportional meal rate (PMR)is based on the locality meal rate and the GOVT meal rate (GMR). The per diem ta bles on this website have the PMRs already computed. The examples below using the Standard CONUS M&IE rate of $46.00 and the Standard GMR of $11.85 show how to compute a PMR amount. The $46.00 consists of $41.00 for meals and $5.00 for incidental expenses.
The Department of Defense recently updated the per diem rates for military members on Temporary Duty Assignments (TDY). Here are some updates you need to be aware of: Long-term per diem rates are lower than short term rates. Travelers will receive 100% of the locality rate per diem for travel under 30 days. Establishes a flat rate per diem allowance for long term TDY that would authorize a traveler 75% of the locality per diem rate for TDY periods over 30 days but not exceeding 180 days.
Per Diem Rates. Calculation of travel per diem rates within the Federal government is a shared responsibility of three organizations: 1  The General Services Administration (GSA) prescribes rates for the Continental U.S. GSA updates the Continental U.S. rates once a year, or as necessary