In most General Dollar stores they need to be able to take returns and offer refunds. They usually take cash or credit cards for payment on the merchandise. The cash drawer must be kept in balance from the start of the shift to the end of their shift. The normal starting wage for a sales associate is $7.00 an hour. 1 Dollar General offers one of the best match programs in retail-dollar for dollar up to the first 5% of your pay.
Dawn Hughey had worked at Dollar General for just four months when she was named manager of a store in the Detroit suburbs in 2009. Having recently moved home after a stint in California, Hughey hoped the new honorific -- and its attendant annual salary -- would help her start a new life in Michigan. As a salaried manager, she was exempt from overtime protections and didn't get paid for extra work. Given that she often worked 70 hours a week, at an annual salary of $34,700, her pay sometimes broke down to less than $10 per hour -- hardly a managerial haul.
Welcome to Sales Associate Job Description ! Our goal is to become your number one informational resource for your aspiring career as a sales associate. We have a description of duties and responsibilities, retail sales associate resume sample and tips, salary information, a jobs listing, and more. Enjoy your stay
Dollar General Corp. About: Dollar General Corp. is a U.S. chain of variety stores headquartered in Goodlettsville, Tennessee. As of January 2012, Dollar General operated over 10,000 stores in 40 U.S. states. The stores were founded in 1939 by Cal Turner in Scottsville, Kentucky as J.L. Turner & Son, Inc.
The average wage is anywhere from $27,000 to $44,000 a year. Benefits. 1  You may contribute up to 25% of your pre-tax income (up to the IRS annual limit). 2  Dollar General offers one of the best match programs in retail-dollar for dollar up to the first 5% of your pay. 3  Medical. 1
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Retail Sales Staff-Full Time in the United States is $23,888, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Retail Sales Staff-Full Time in the United States are expected to make less than $23,888. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Retail Sales Staff-Full Time that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Retail Sales Staff-Full Time are expected to make less than the median.
Dollar General, Family Dollar and Dollar Tree are on pace to open one new store every six hours this year, according to Sterne Agee's analysis, and they now employ more than 220,000 full-time and part-time U.S. workers, according to the companies' annual reports. Dollar General alone has 90,000 employees. As a salaried manager, she was exempt from overtime protections and didn't get paid for extra work. Given that she often worked 70 hours a week, at an annual salary of $34,700, her pay sometimes broke down to less than $10 per hour -- hardly a managerial haul.
Sales Associate Salary. (United States). A Sales Associate earns an average wage of $9.25 per hour. Experience has a moderate effect on salary for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Account Management, Field Sales, Account Sales, Customer Relationship Management (CRM), and Inside Sales.
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Sales category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Sales jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Retail Sales Staff-Full Time may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Retail Sales Staff-Full Time that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Retail Sales Staff-Full Time are expected to make less than the median.