Misrepresentation in general is a legal term that means a false statement of fact that has the effect of inducing someone into a contract.. For example, telling someone a stereo is practically new so that they buy it, when it is in fact 5 years old and heavily used. 
1 Fraudulent misrepresentation occurs when one makes representation with intent to deceive and with the knowledge that it is false. 2  An action for fraudulent misrepresentation allows for a remedy of damages and rescission. 3  One can also sue for fraudulent misrepresentation in a tort action. In cases of fraudulent misrepresentation, the remedy is either rescission or a claim for damages. The remedy to injured party for negligent misrepresentation is in common law a claim for damages. In other words, actual losses only are recoverable.
Generally, statements of opinion or intention are not statements of fact in the context of misrepresentation. If one party claims specialist knowledge on the topic discussed, then it is more likely for the courts to hold a statement of opinion by that party as a statement of fact. In cases of fraudulent misrepresentation, the remedy is either rescission or a claim for damages. The remedy to injured party for negligent misrepresentation is in common law a claim for damages. In other words, actual losses only are recoverable.
A finding of misrepresentation allows for a remedy of rescission and sometimes damages depending on the type of misrepresentation. Misrepresentation is also capable of giving rise to an action in tort as well as contract law, for the tort of deceit. In cases of fraudulent misrepresentation, the remedy is either rescission or a claim for damages. The remedy to injured party for negligent misrepresentation is in common law a claim for damages. In other words, actual losses only are recoverable.
by olivia. Fraud vs Misrepresentation. People treat fraud and misrepresentation as being same and they even use the terms interchangeably but there is a difference between the two concepts in the eyes of law and cases are dealt with according to the provisions of either. Fraud is a crime that has strict provisions in the law and is accordingly dealt with. Misrepresentation. Misrepresentation, on the other hand, is mostly used in the context of contracts where a party may present facts in such a way so as to lure other party into signing the contract.
For the sociological one, see Misrepresentation (sociology). Misrepresentation is a concept in the contract law of England and some other Commonwealth countries, referring to a false statement of fact made by one party to another party, which has the effect of inducing that party into the contract. In cases of fraudulent misrepresentation, the remedy is either rescission or a claim for damages. The remedy to injured party for negligent misrepresentation is in common law a claim for damages. In other words, actual losses only are recoverable.
The primary difference between misrepresentation cases and fraud cases is that, in a misrepresentation case, the defendant was either unaware that the material fact was false (innocent misrepresentation), or the defendant did not bother to find out whether the fact was false or true (negligent misrepresentation). Misrepresentation may also be known as “innocent misrepresentation” or “negligent misrepresentation,” depending on the laws of the particular state that hears the case. In any misrepresentation case, the elements the plaintiff is required to prove typically include:
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact or law that is relied on by the other party in entering a contract. For example in Curtis v Chemical Cleaning and Dyeing Co Ms Curtis took a wedding dress with beads and sequins to the cleaners. They gave her a contract to sign and she asked the assistant what it was. In law, deceit and fraud both fall within tort and are also often crimes, while fraudulent misrepresentation is usually associated with contract law. In a claim for deceit or fraud, damages are intended to put the claimant in the position as if the tort had not been committed.
Though both fraud and misrepresentation have similar effects and there may be just a difference of intensity or magnitude, fraud is willful and attracts more severe penalty than misrepresentation that is less severe. Fraud. Fraud is done with the intention of wrongful personal gains or to cause damage to another person. Fraud is a crime that has strict provisions in the law and is accordingly dealt with. Misrepresentation. Misrepresentation, on the other hand, is mostly used in the context of contracts where a party may present facts in such a way so as to lure other party into signing the contract.