Bending forward or rounding your lower back is called flexion. Flexion in the lumbar spine is primarily limited by compression of the intervertebral disks and tension in the ligaments that run along the back of the spine. The normal range of movement of lumbar flexion is 40 to 50 degrees. The range of motion, or how far your spine can move, is limited by the disks between the vertebrae, the ligaments that tie the vertebrae together and the orientation of the facet joints on the back part of the vertebrae. Muscle tension can restrict your range of motion as well
Rotation. Rotation is the movement which we use to look over our shoulder or look back. The movement is equal on either side. Normal range of motion of cervical spine is. 1  Flexion – 80 to 90 degrees. 2  Extension – 70 degrees. 3  Lateral flexion – 20 to 45 degrees on both sides. 4  Rotation – 90° of rotation to both sides
Technique. Range of motion (ROM) refers to the angular distance in degrees that the spine or a joint can be moved through. (ROM) should always be tested passively, except for testing of the spine. For example, the reported normal flexion of the lumbar spine may vary between 80° and 100°. The value cited below is 90°, but 80° flexion should not interpreted as abnormal. The range of “normal” motion also decreases with age, particularly in
These provide stability and motion in the lumbar spine. The average range of motion of a lumbar FSU is around 10 degrees flexion and 5 degrees extension, 5 degrees lateral bending and around 3 degrees rotation. The sum of these ranges of motion provides the total flexibility of this anatomical structure. 
The lumbar spine, commonly known as the low back, is also tested during range of motion exams. The lumbar spine has five vertebrae and connects the spine to the pelvis. Normal lumbar ranges of motion include 60 degrees of flexion, 25 degrees of extension, and 25 degrees of lateral, or side, bending. Range of motion is commonly tested in the cervical spine, thoracic spine and lumbar spine. In many sports medicine clinics, range of motion in the upper and lower extremities are also tested. The measured degrees are compared with the expected norm and also from a healthy joint with an injured joint.
Side bending is called lateral flexion. The orientation of the facet joints in the lower back permits fairly free side bending. The normal range of motion in the lumbar spine is about 20 degrees to each side. Lateral flexion is primarily limited by tension in the ligaments and muscles on the opposite side of the spine. The range of motion, or how far your spine can move, is limited by the disks between the vertebrae, the ligaments that tie the vertebrae together and the orientation of the facet joints on the back part of the vertebrae. Muscle tension can restrict your range of motion as well
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Range of motion is the amount of movement you have with any joint before being restricted by the bones and muscles attached to the joint or by pain or stiffness. ROM differs from person to person, and the range of motion in your back for flexion and extension is unique to you. Full range of motion is described as being within normal limits, or WNL. Normal ROM for back flexion is 90 degrees, or bending forward to touch your feet. As with most movements, this type of flexion works in tandem with other joints, including pelvic rotation, so any limitation could arise from back or pelvis issues.
The normal range of motion for extension in the lumbar spine is 15 to 20 degrees. If tight abdominal muscles limit your range of motion, stretching those muscles with back bending exercises may help increase your range. The range of motion, or how far your spine can move, is limited by the disks between the vertebrae, the ligaments that tie the vertebrae together and the orientation of the facet joints on the back part of the vertebrae. Muscle tension can restrict your range of motion as well