On Friday, August 23, 2013, a U.S. federal trademark registration was filed for VINIQ by E. & J. GALLO WINERY, Modesto, CA 95354. The USPTO has given the VINIQ trademark serial number of 86046169. The current federal status of this trademark filing is ABANDONED-FAILURE TO RESPOND OR LATE RESPONSE. This is a brand page for the VINIQ trademark by E. & J. GALLO WINERY in Modesto, CA, 95354. Write a review about a product or service associated with this VINIQ trademark.
Spirit spotlight: VINIQ Shimmery Liqueur hits ATL. May 10, 2014 7:43 AM by Rachelle Gauthier. Five plus years in the making, VINIQ Shimmery Liqueur was well worth the wait. This unique blend of premium vodka, moscato and fruity flavors is as pleasing on the eyes as it is on the palate. 
Viniq is a blend of premium vodka, Moscato, natural fruit flavors and the shimmer. Delicious chilled over ice in a highball, or mixed to make an exciting cocktail. 
Viniq Shimmery Liqueur is an exciting new beverage from E&J Gallo Winery. Viniq brings together Moscato, premium Vodka and premium fruit juice together to create a cocktail that stands alone or as part of a mixed drink. But the real fun is when you shake the bottle. You need to Shake to Shimmer for a beverage experience that is like none other
Viniq Shimmery Liqueur is a fusion of premium vodka, moscato and natural fruit flavors. Mesmerizing to look at, the taste is nothing short of delicious. $18.99/750 ml. $9.99/375 ml. Video is from Predators Wine Festival 4/24/14. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
This is a brand page for the VINIQ SHIMMERY LIQUEUR trademark by E. & J. GALLO WINERY in Modesto, CA, 95354. Write a review about a product or service associated with this VINIQ SHIMMERY LIQUEUR trademark. The current federal status of this trademark filing is REGISTERED. The correspondent listed for VINIQ SHIMMERY LIQUEUR is KRISTI W. WHALEN of E. & J. GALLO WINERY, 600 YOSEMITE BLVD, MODESTO, CA 95354-2760. The VINIQ SHIMMERY LIQUEUR trademark is filed in the category of Wines and Spirits Products.
(December 2010). Hpnotiq liqueur is an alcoholic beverage, native to New York but bottled in France by Heaven Hill Distilleries, made from fruit juices, vodka and a cognac. 
My favorite was the “Voila” made with Viniq, Peach Vodka, Cranberry and Lime. Moscato is the wine used in making Viniq and everyone knows Moscato is a sweet desert wine and it compliments perfectly the natural fruit flavors added to Viniq. Guests were given a bottle of Viniq and a souvenir Viniq glass. categories: EVENTS. There’s a new liqueur in town and it just happens to be our favorite Baltimore football color. Viniq is a shimmering purple liqueur hybrid of vodka and wine. It was named VINIQ because it’s such a unique vino (wine), a first of its kind that shimmers and sparkles when shaken up. I was invited to the first Baltimore launch hosted by 92Q radio personality Konan
A Statement Piece Drink. This revolutionary, shimmery beverage will delight more than just your taste buds. It’s shiny because of the sugar that is actually the same spun sugar used in decorative cakes. Viniq is a revolutionary liqueur made from everyone’s favorite’s – vodka and moscato. Just shaking the bottle is fun. It’s great for a party where you want a show-stopping cocktail like the champagne cocktail pictured here