Nearly all wild lions live in sub-Saharan Africa, but one small population of Asian lions exists in India's Gir Forest. Asian lions and African lions are subspecies of the same species. Asian lions once prowled from the Middle East to India. 
The population of Asiatic lions had been dramatically trimmed down in the 300 B.C. due to various factors. Some other places where lions are found include North Africa, Iran, Southwest Asia, Gir Forest (India), Turkey, and Gujarat (India). Before tumbling into the facts about widespread distribution and lions’ habitat, let us first classify these big cats into two main categories: African and Asiatic lions. As the name indicates, these cats were named after their respective continents i.e. Africa and Asia.
Where Do Lions Live. Before tumbling into the facts about widespread distribution and lions’ habitat, let us first classify these big cats into two main categories: African and Asiatic lions. As the name indicates, these cats were named after their respective continents i.e. Africa and Asia.
Even though lions have the nickname of King of the Jungle, they do not live in heavy forests or jungles; nor do they live in desert areas due to a lack of prey. Asiatic lions live in the Gir Forest of India (in the state of Gujarat), although they have reached near-extinction. Most lions live in South Africa, Kenya,  Tanzania and Senegal, and they are the … largest African lions. There  is also a minority in Botswana and the Congo. Moreover, there are  Asiatic lions which live at south-east India (Gir Forest). 39 people found this useful.
Most lions live in Africa, mainly on the savannah, although some  lions live in the forests. Most lions live in South Africa, Kenya,  Tanzania and Senegal, and they are the … largest African lions. There  is also a minority in Botswana and the Congo. Moreover, there are  Asiatic lions which live at south-east India (Gir Forest). 39 people found this useful.
Today the range of the lion, Panthera leo is almost entirely limited to sub-Saharan Africa. Lions occur throughout that region, except in the equatorial rain forest and in the heavily populated regions along the southern coast of the western portion of the continent (see map at right). Lions were once far more widespread than they are today. In historic times they were found throughout much of southern Eurasia (map of the lion's former range). Anciently, they were also present in Greece and the Balkan Peninsula. For example, they are mentioned repeatedly in the Iliad.
Lions live in prairies, semi-arid plains and Savannah grasslands within southern areas of the African continent. Many thousands of years ago, lions were plentiful throughout Europe, southern Asia, eastern and central India and the entire African continent. Most lions live in South Africa, Kenya,  Tanzania and Senegal, and they are the … largest African lions. There  is also a minority in Botswana and the Congo. Moreover, there are  Asiatic lions which live at south-east India (Gir Forest). 39 people found this useful.
Habitat. African lions live in Angola, Botswana, Mozambique, Tanzania, the Central African Republic, South Sudan and other parts of sub-Saharan Africa. They wander a territory of 100 square miles (259 square kilometers), according to National Geographic. This territory consists of scrub, grasslands or open woodlands. 
The lion (Panthera leo) is one of the five big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae. The commonly used term African lion collectively denotes the several subspecies found in Africa. With some males exceeding 250 kg (550 lb) in weight, it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger. 