Depending on the cause of viral conjunctivitis, some patients may have additional symptoms or conditions, such as the following: 1  Common cold, flu, or other respiratory infection — conjunctivitis often occurs with respiratory infections; sometimes the lymph node near the front of the ear is enlarged and painful.
Viral Conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis can often be diagnosed from symptoms and patient history. For example, if conjunctivitis accompanies a common cold or respiratory tract infection and if discharge from the eye is watery rather than thick, the cause is likely a virus.
Background. Inflammation of the bulbar and/or palpebral conjunctiva, or conjunctivitis, can be caused by allergies, viruses, or bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis is commonly caused by staphylococci, streptococci, chlamydial organism, and gonococci.
Pink eye – or conjunctivitis – is common and spreads easily. It sometimes needs medical treatment, depending on the cause. Know the symptoms, when to seek treatment, and how to help prevent it. Pink eye, also known as conjunctivitis, is one of the most common and treatable eye conditions in children and adults.
The herpes virus can also cause viral pinkeye. Symptoms of viral pinkeye include: 1  Redness in the white of the eye. 2  Swelling of the eyelids. 3  Itching or burning feeling of the eyelids. 4  Swollen and tender areas in front of the ears. 5  A lot of tearing. 6  Clear or slightly thick, whitish drainage.
The treatment for pinkeye depends on the cause. 1  Bacteria. 2  Pinkeye caused by bacteria, including those related to STDs, is treated with antibiotics, in the form of eye drops, ointments, or pills. 3  Eye drops or ointments may need to be applied to the inside of the eyelid three to four times a day for five to seven days.
Bacterial conjunctivitis can usually be diagnosed by a doctor, nurse, or other healthcare provider from symptoms and patient history. For example, if conjunctivitis occurs at the same time as an ear infection and if discharge from the eye is thick rather than watery, the cause may be a bacterium.
Pink eye, or conjunctivitis, is a highly contagious bacterial or viral eye infection that occurs when the blood vessels of the transparent membrane (or conjunctiva) covering the whites of your eye becomes irritated and inflamed—thus causing the tissue to turn pink in color.