10. Get help from a doctor now ›. About 2 days: The half life of Metronidazole is 8 hours. It takes about 5 half lives for a substance to be almost entirely out of your body, so that's 40 hours for metronidazole. ...Read more.
It depends on which antibiotic you take as to how long it stays in your system. The technical answer is 5 half-lives, but it will stop being effective before that. After 2 days the antibiotic probably is not in your child's system but he also probably has antibodies in his imune system agaist the original infection.
Amoxicillin has a short half life of around 1 hour, so it doesn't stay in the body very long; however, amoxicillin isn't something we test for in a urinalysis (UA), either whe … n looking for the presence of infection or when conducting a drug screen. The last number (half-life) will tell you about how long the drug will be available in a non-compromised adult. So after about an hour, 500mg will be left, 2 hours 250mg left, 3 hours 125mg left, and so on.
Most antibiotics are designed to stay in your system at a therapeutic level for 7 to 10 days. That means that they are actually killing bacteria. However, the effects on your body after finishing the full course of the drug, can last up to 6 months. I just had a relative with pneumonia, and the doctor gave him a strong (5 day)antibiotic, and said it would stay in his body for several days after he finished his last dose. This came straight from the doctor, so that's reliable.
0. 1. How long antibiotics stay in your system after you finish taking them totally depends upon the antibiotic the person is taking, doses, and the person`s metabolism as well.Generally antibiotics should stay for a week in the system after you finish taking them. jack Perry. 
Update: My 14 month old took his last dose of Augmentin 2 days ago (for a sinus infection). I now have a bacterial infection in my throat and taking antibiotics. The technical answer is 5 half-lives, but it will stop being effective before that. After 2 days the antibiotic probably is not in your child's system but he also probably has antibodies in his imune system agaist the original infection.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Just a few days: Antibiotics typically need to be used for 7=14 days to allow your body defenses to overcome an infection. They will typically stay in your system for a few days after completing treatment. Get help from a doctor now ›. About 2 days: The half life of Metronidazole is 8 hours. It takes about 5 half lives for a substance to be almost entirely out of your body, so that's 40 hours for metronidazole. ...Read more.
Report This | Share this:How long does an antibiotic stay in your system after you've finished the prescription?Antibiotics do not cancel out your birth control! Supposedly there are a couple of stronger antibiotics that could lessen the effect of the BC but they do not cancel it out. Or do antibiotics stay in you system longer and could therefore cancel out my birth control that I start that Sunday. Also, if it the antibiotic stays in my system a couple days after I've finished the prescription, does that cancel out the whole month of birth control pills?
This came straight from the doctor, so that's reliable. Most antibiotics are designed to stay in your system at a therapeutic level for 7 to 10 days. That means that they are actually killing bacteria. However, the effects on your body after finishing the full course of the drug, can last up to 6 months. It depends on the specific antibiotic. The half-lives vary. Name one. I just had a relative with pneumonia, and the doctor gave him a strong (5 day)antibiotic, and said it would stay in his body for several days after he finished his last dose.
Answer by Cammi9002. Confidence votes 204. Antibiotics take 2-3 weeks to leave your system, but it can vary depending on the type of antibiotic, such as protein or non-protein bound, the patient's metabolism, their liver function, and their kidney function. Antibiotics taken while on birth control pills cause decrease in the effectiveness of BCP. When you are taking antibiotics, it does take several days for the medicine to kill enough of the bacteria inside your body so that you actually feel the difference. I always … tell my patients that if you don't notice a real improvement on Day 4, it's time to call the doctor back.