Time Frame. The amount of time it takes to grow hair relaxer out depends on how quickly your hair grows and how long you want your hair to be before you cut the relaxed hair off. According to the Mayo Clinic, hair grows about a 1/2 inch each month during its growth phase, though this varies from person to person. Considerations. Some people try natural hair relaxers as they transition from relaxed hair to their natural texture. These hair treatments do not straighten the hair, however. Often consisting of a blend of herbs, they are typically used to make hair more manageable and soften the natural curl texture.
Relaxing hair gives you six to eight weeks or so of beautifully straight and silky hair. However, the transition from relaxed hair into natural hair is tough-odd curly bits, split ends and endless breakage. 
If your hair is shoulder length or longer and the majority of your hair is relaxed it could take up to a year or more before your natural hair reaches a length that you are okay with. Transitioning is the way to go if you don’t want to sacrifice your hair length and go natural all at once. You can pace yourself and go back to natural hair at a rate that you are comfortable with. Here is how the process works: #1 Stop using chemical relaxers. To begin the process give up the creamy crack completely.
Hair grows 1/2″ per month on average. So if you want 10 inches of natural hair before you chop off your ends, you’ll need to transition for 20 months. Also keep in mind that natural hair can shrink up to 50 to 80% of its length. So 10 inches of natural hair is not the same as 10 inches of relaxed hair. So you may choose to transition longer to get the desired hang length you want. 
Pages: 1 2. Transitioning to natural hair does not have to be hard. If you arm yourself with the right knowledge and give 100%, you can not only succeed but actually enjoy it. So many “naturals in the making” are happy to have finally taken the plunge but there are still many who are afraid or have tried and failed.
In order to go from relaxed to natural hair, you have two options: Transitioning or The Big Chop. Which one you choose is entirely up to you. There is no right way or wrong way to start your journey. It doesn’t matter how you get there, its all about what makes you comfortable. 1 You have a consistent hair texture as opposed to transitioning where you have to deal with two. 2  There are no long waits to go natural; your hair is returned to its natural state as soon as your relaxed hair is chopped off. 3  With a big chop you have a fresh start no chemically processed hair and no split ends.
I transitioned from relaxed hair to Natural hair by wearing cornrows,microbraids,crochets,weaves. Going Natural was one of the best decisions of my life. It took me a few unsuccessful attempts but I finally did it! My last relaxer was September 2009 and I did my BC on September 13, 2010. 
Hi I am on my 4th month of transitioning to natural i have been relaxing for the past 33 years a very long time. My last relax was November 2013, so i want to take a brake from all the heat and relaxing. People are asking me why I want to do that, my hair is pretty long about 17 to 20 inches long. I don’t want to cut so want to see how long I can go with out doing the big chop, I am excited.. which i had not relax my hair.
For newbies, transitioning is moving from relaxed to natural hair. Most persons who do a long stretch with relaxed hair are technically transitioning and those persons who are tired of relaxed hair and want to wear their own hair are definitely transitioning. Forget about using heat to dry your hair or to style your hair. When transitioning do not try to straighten your natural hair to look like your relaxed hair, this will create problems. Your hair won’t like it and it will break.