If normal amounts of calcium, platelets, and tissue factors are present, prothrombin will be converted to thrombin. Thrombin acts as a catalyst for the conversion of fibrinogen to a mesh of insoluble fibrin in which all the formed elements of blood are immobilized. Also called. blood coagulation. blood clot·ting. Process in which platelets, in conjunction with clotting factors, transform blood from a liquid into a semisolid mass. Synonym(s): blood coagulation. the process of clotting, which is one of the body's natural means of stopping bleeding (haemostasis), activated by damage to the vessel lining.
Blood Clots. Blood clotting, or coagulation, is an important process that prevents excessive bleeding when a blood vessel is injured. Platelets (a type of blood cell) and proteins in your plasma (the liquid part of blood) work together to stop the bleeding by forming a clot over the injury. 
1 It is composed of liquid plasma and formed elements. 2  Formed elements include: 3  Erythrocytes, or red blood cells (RBCs). 4  Leukocytes, or white blood cells (WBCs). 5  Platelets. 6  Hematocrit-the percentage of RBCs out of the total blood volume. Composition of Blood. 1  Blood is the body&#39s only fluid tissue. 2  It is composed of liquid plasma and formed elements. 3  Formed elements include: 4  Erythrocytes, or red blood cells (RBCs). 5  Leukocytes, or white blood cells (WBCs). 6
Plasma with the clotting proteins removed is called serum. - transported gases, nutrients, metabolic products, electrolytes, hormones (1%). Formed elements-about 45% of blood by volume-composed of cells or cell parts: - Hematocrit is a measure of blood that is composed of cells (rbc). 
Confidence votes 50.7K. Platelets are the formed element of the blood that participate in the clotting process. Platelets, also called thrombocytes, are actually cell fragments. With the clotting factors, which are non-formed blood elements, the assist in the clotting cascade. Platelets, or thrombocytes, are the smallest formed element in the  blood. Made of cell fragments, platelets are part of the blood  clotting process. Non-formed clotting fac … tors also are critical to  blood clotting. thrombocytes. 1 person found this useful
Blood. 1  Blood is a connective tissue. 2  Blood is made of a liquid matrix called plasma and 3 types of formed elements (cells or cell fragments). 3  There are no visible fibers in plasma, but there are proteins that can be converted to fibers under certain conditions (e.g. blood vessel damage). 
Platelets are the formed element of the blood that participate in the clotting process. Platelets, also called thrombocytes, are actually cell fragments. Platelets, or thrombocytes, are the smallest formed element in the  blood. Made of cell fragments, platelets are part of the blood  clotting process. Non-formed clotting fac … tors also are critical to  blood clotting. thrombocytes. 1 person found this useful
1 Blood is the body&#39s only fluid tissue. 2  It is composed of liquid plasma and formed elements. 3  Formed elements include: 4  Erythrocytes, or red blood cells (RBCs). 5  Leukocytes, or white blood cells (WBCs). 6  Platelets. 7  Hematocrit-the percentage of RBCs out of the total blood volume. Composition of Blood. 1 
Red Bone Marrow. Spongy Bone. The cells of blood are called formed elements, the fiber is the clotting protein called fibrin, and the ground substance is a fluid called plasma. Blood is transported in vessels that create vascular circuits in order to distribute substances to the proper organs. 