Use the list of heater repair cost to compare what your furnace repair contractor is charging to fix your unit. There may be a plus or minus of 10% to the heating repair prices listed below. However, is you are paying more the then 20% of the price listed below you are paying to much! 
This video provides step-by-step instructions for replacing the gas valve assembly on York, Luxaire, and Coleman furnaces. The most common reason for replacing the gas valve assembly is if the gas valve does not open, making the furnace unable to heat the house. Click here to purchase Part #S1-32544123000: http://www.repairclinic.com/PartDetai...
While we focus primarily on natural gas, most can be converted to a propane gas furnacegas for a very small fee. In most cases, it involves replacing the gas valve, the burners, jets, or a combination of the parts. Depending on your furnace, the kits cost in the $25 – $100 range. We called for repair and a new furnace heat exchanger (looked like cottage cheese) was going to cost more than $1500 installed, and we had to wait 4 days to get the parts in stock. For $900 more, they put in a new Goodman gas furnace the same day.
We’ll share wholesale and dealer installed gas furnace prices for the equipment from various top rated brands, as well as what cost you may expect to pay for variables like different sized furnaces, higher efficiency, and of course estimated repair costs for gas furnaces. We called for repair and a new furnace heat exchanger (looked like cottage cheese) was going to cost more than $1500 installed, and we had to wait 4 days to get the parts in stock. For $900 more, they put in a new Goodman gas furnace the same day.
If you want to convert from an electric furnace to a gas furnace, you will need to have gas piping and ductwork installed first. This will add an additional up-front cost to the furnace and installation process of around $5,000 to $15,000 or more depending on the space. The prices listed for the furnaces below represent prices for an average house with average needs, which is an 80,000 BTU furnace with a 3-Ton blower that is installed in a first floor utility room of a 1600-2000 square foot house.
The technician checked my furnace and said the gas valve needs to be replaced. He said the estimate is $373.13 including part and labor. Then I called his company to make the order and the manager told me that $373 is for labor only. If they charge $90/hour for labor, $373 is about 4 hours of work.... Source(s): cost raplacing gas valve carrier furnace: https://shortly.im/qyxYw. Kecia · 2 months ago.
Most often it's required to remove the entire gas valve off the furnace to access the flame sensor. Gas Valve: Releases the gas to the pilot flame and the main gas manifold The average cost to replace a gas valve in a forces air furnace can range from $425 to $675. The gas valves are one of the most important parts of the furnace. No Gas entering the system, no heat. Installation of a new gas valve includes removal of all the wiring connecting to the gas valve. Gas Valve: Releases the gas to the pilot flame and the main gas manifold. The average cost to replace a gas valve in a forces air furnace can range from $425 to $675.
http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/EHowatHomeChannel. replacing a furnace gas valve doesn't have to cost an arm and a leg in expensive repair bills. Repair a furnace gas valve with help from a plumbing, heating and cooling specialist in this free video clip. Expert: Tom Hutchinson. 
The Average Cost of a Furnace Repair. The average price that homeowners pay for a furnace repair is $335. Most homeowners paid between $277 and $393 to have their furnaces fixed. At minimum, homeowners spent $100 for the furnace repair, while at the high end, the maximum cost was $800. There are many variables in the cost of repairing a furnace. A furnace that is still under warranty may have parts covered, but the homeowner may have to pay the cost of a service visit and for labor.