- Elements -. 25: SODIUM. Sodium occurs naturally in many foods and is also added in the form of salt or other sodium-containing substances. Common salt or table salt is a chemical compound of sodium and chlorine and is called sodium chloride. The sodium content of food has important implications for health. Salt contains about 40 per cent sodium, and a teaspoon of salt, which weighs about 5 grams, contains about 2 grams of sodium. Varying amounts of sodium are added to food, but not always in the form of salt. Common food additives, such as baking soda, some preservatives, and monosodium glutamate (MSG), also contribute to the total amount of sodium we consume.
Join Date: Jul 2001. I was in China for 3 months and I didn't see much that even resembled American Chinese food, let alone dishes that were the same. American Chinese food is essentially fast food. It has a lot of salt in it for the same reason other fast food does. It's a cheap and easy way of adding a lot of flavor to dishes, and it helps preserve things. 
Table salt and MSG may be used in Chinese cooking. Photo Credit Jiri Hera/iStock/Getty Images. Some chefs use monosodium glutamate, or MSG, to enhance the flavor of their dishes. Table salt, which is approximately 40 percent sodium, is also used in Chinese cooking. One teaspoon of table salt contains approximately 2,400 milligrams of sodium. If you order a dish with soy sauce, it can increase the sodium content of your meal significantly
Monosodium glutamate (MSG, also known as sodium glutamate) is the sodium salt of glutamic acid, one of the most abundant naturally occurring non-essential amino acids. Glutamate is found in tomatoes, Parmesan cheese, potatoes, mushrooms, and other vegetables and fruits. MSG is used in the food industry as a flavor enhancer with an umami taste that intensifies the meaty, savory flavor of food, as naturally occurring glutamate does in foods such as stews and meat soups.
Make your own Chinese food at home. This allows you to avoid adding salt and other ingredients high in sodium. If you are eating out or getting a take-out meal, purchase only freshly prepared dishes that have not been pre-marinated and look for dishes not prepared in sauces, such as grilled items. Soy sauce is a staple ingredient used to flavor and marinate Chinese food, but it is very high in sodium. Just 2 teaspoons of regular soy sauce contain almost 6.8 grams of sodium.
Like almost all restaurants, Chinese food is loaded with calories and salt, which is bad for waistline and your blood pressure, Bonnie Liebman, nutrition director of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, told CBS News. While Chinese restaurant food is bad for your waistline and blood pressure — sodium contributes to hypertension — it does offer some redeeming features. The good thing about Chinese food is that you can get vegetable-rich dishes, and it's got the kind of fat that isn't bad for your heart, Liebman said.
Chinese food is known for its variety of noodles, meats and vegetables. However, it also contains a high content of sodium due to added salt, flavor enhancers, spice mixes, marinades and sauces. Soy sauce is a staple ingredient used to flavor and marinate Chinese food, but it is very high in sodium. Just 2 teaspoons of regular soy sauce contain almost 6.8 grams of sodium.
High salt levels: Takeaways can contain more than three times the amount of salt an adult should eat in an entire day. Pizzas and Chinese food had the highest levels, in a survey of 215 independent food outlets. Takeaways can contain 3-days’ worth of salt in a single meal. 1  Pizzas and Chinese food had the highest levels, in a survey of 215 independent food outlets. 2  NHS guidelines recommend adults should eat no more than six grams of salt a day.