meilleur, e adj better Ce serait meilleur avec du fromage rape. Râpé it would be better with grated. Cheese il parait paraît que le film est meilleur que. Le livre the film is supposed to be better than. the book meilleur Marche marché cheaper la biere bière Est. Meilleur marche marché en France. beer is cheaper in france The weather's better. J'espere espère'qu il fera meilleur. Demain i hope the weather will be better. tomorrow nm le (meilleur'd une) serie série (the) (best one'ce qu il y a) de meilleur The best je prefere préfère garder le meilleur. pour la fin
Good luck and Best wishes is an English equivalent of Bonne chance et meilleurs voeux.. The feminine adjective bonne means good.. The feminine noun chance means luc … k.. Its singular definite article is la (the), and its singular indefinite article is une (a, one). The conjunction et means and.. 
(December 2009). Un des Meilleurs Ouvriers de France is a craftsmen competition in France, held every four years. The title of Un des Meilleurs Ouvriers de France (shortened to MOF) is a unique and prestigious award in France according to category of trades in a contest among professionals
Confidence votes 9.  Good luck and Best wishes  is an English equivalent of  Bonne chance et meilleurs voeux .. The feminine adjective  bonne  means good.. The feminine noun  chance  means luck.. Its singular definite article is  la  (the), and its singular indefinite article is  une  (a, one).
By Laura K. Lawless. Like bon and bien, meilleur and mieux can be confusing for French students. Meilleur is the comparative and superlative form of the adjective bon (good), while mieux is the comparative and superlative form of the adverb bien (well). When translating into English, there is no difference between meilleur and mieux, hence the confusion. Deciding whether you need meilleur or mieux is essentially a question of deciding between bon and bien, but in a comparative or superlative construction.
Posted: 09/13/2010 5:18 pm EDT Updated: 05/25/2011 5:40 pm EDT. Pierre and his wife Michelle. The M.O.F., Meilleur Ouvrier de France (Best Craftsman of France), is a title that was created in France at the turn of the century when the country realized that their artisans. and the work that they were producing was lagging behind that of other countries. 
Alternative Loan Specialists. The Meilleur Groupe is a company that offers financing in the specialized field of alternative loans for all property types. Our company works with rehabbers and commercial property owners to achieve lending terms that meet their current needs and investment goal