Find Your Payroll Percentage. Divide your payroll expense by your gross sales figure. This is your payroll as a percentage of gross sales. Example: A payroll of $49,000 divided by gross sales of $100,000 equals 0.49. Multiply by 100 to find the percentage. In the example, 0.49 times 100 equals 49 percent. Payroll, in this example, is 49 percent
What Percentage of Payroll Vs. Controlling payroll is important to small business success. dollars in hand at teenager image by Petr Gnuskin from Fotolia.com. Although high revenues are a great thing, a small business must watch its back door if it wants to be sustainably successful. Payroll as a percentage of income is one way to gauge whether or not your business is spending too much on payroll. To do this, you need to total your payroll expenses and add up your gross income.
Your payroll expenditure also represents a percentage of the total revenue that your business takes in during the payroll period. The percentage of gross sales dedicated to payroll changes over time, but it should always be low enough to allow you to cover other necessary business expenses. Approaches. To improve your percentage of gross sales dedicated to payroll, your business can either increase sales and introduce efficiencies, or lower payroll by finding ways to do the same amount of work in fewer hours.
According to Second Wind Consultants, a sound goal for most businesses' payroll percentage is 30 percent to 38 percent of gross sales. If your payroll costs you as much as 50 percent, you may find yourself struggling frequently. Example: A payroll of $49,000 divided by gross sales of $100,000 equals 0.49. Multiply by 100 to find the percentage. In the example, 0.49 times 100 equals 49 percent.
According to Number Crunchers Financial Services, payroll should not encompass more than one-third of most business’s revenue. This is in line with Second Wind Consultants’ recommendation that payroll should not exceed 15 to 30 percent of gross income. Exceptions include businesses in the service industry. In this case, payroll can make up at least 50 percent of your gross revenue. In the service industry, your employees are your merchandise; instead of buying goods, you pay for your employees’ labor. If you have employees, payroll is mandatory. Not only must you compensate your employees, but you must also pay additional liabilities that you incur as an employer. If you’re not careful, payroll can take up too much of your small
If your payroll expenditures fall within 15-30% of gross revenue, your business is in a safe zone. Businesses that live within this range tend to be most successful, at least from a payroll perspective. If your percentage falls above 30%, in the red zone, it’s time to come up with a new strategy immediately. Maintaining a payroll that falls above 30% of your gross revenue is one of the most common reasons for a business to fail. Identify it first and then we can fix it.
Ideal Percentage. According to experts including master restauranteur Gordon Ramsey and small business advisers Second Wind Consulting, your business should be all right if you are spending approximately one-third of your gross income on payroll. Payroll as a percentage of income is one way to gauge whether or not your business is spending too much on payroll. To do this, you need to total your payroll expenses and add up your gross income.
Payroll vs. Income. Payroll as a percentage of income is one way to gauge whether or not your business is spending too much on payroll. To do this, you need to total your payroll expenses and add up your gross income. Divide the payroll total by your gross income to express your payroll as a percentage of i