You can snap the Upload app to make recordings of a specific length. 1  Start the game you want to record from. 2  If you’re using the Kinect sensor, say “ Xbox, snap Game DVR 3  .”. If you’re using your controller, double-tap the Xbox button on your controller, select Snap an app, then select Game DVR.
1 Start the game you want to record from. 2  If you’re using the Kinect sensor, say “ Xbox, snap Game DVR 3  .”. If you’re using your controller, double-tap the Xbox button on your controller, select Snap an app, then select Game DVR. 4  Select one of the following options: 5  End clip now: You can create a video of your gameplay.
Upload Studio can be accessed via the voice command system of the Xbox Kinect, allowing players to say Xbox, Record That to grab a clip from the game you are playing. If you are not using a Kinect, simply go into Game DVR via the Games and Apps page.
1 If you’re using the Kinect sensor, say “ Xbox, snap Game DVR 2  .”. If you’re using your controller, double-tap the Xbox button on your controller, select Snap an app, then select Game DVR. 3  Select one of the following options: 4  End clip now: You can create a video of your gameplay. 5  You can capture the previous: 6  30 seconds.
You can snap the game DVR and grab up to the previous 5 minutes of gameplay. Just choose End clip now on the snapped game DVR, and you can choose to keep the last 30 seconds, 45 seconds, or 1, 3, or 5 minutes of gameplay. ---. Immigrants.
You can bring it up by saying out loud, Xbox, snap Game DVR.. You can then select 'End clip now' or 'Start new clip.' Selecting 'End clip now' records gameplay up to 5 minutes in the past. 'Start new clip' will record up to 5 minutes of footage starting now. You can view all your recorded clips on Game DVR.
1 If you’re using your controller, double-tap the Xbox button on your controller, select Snap an app, then select Game DVR. 2  Select one of the following options: 3  End clip now: You can create a video of your gameplay. 4  You can capture the previous:
1 Start the game you want to record from. 2  If you’re using the Kinect sensor, say “ Xbox, snap Game DVR 3  .”. If you’re using your controller, double-tap the Xbox button on your controller, select Snap an app, then select Game DVR. 4  Select one of the following options: 5  End clip now: You can create a video of your gameplay.