Quote: Originally Posted by Donn2390. I can tell you I recently had the two bumpers, and a bunch of other parts, rechromed, and the total cost was a lot more than the car cost new. This early 50's GM car sold for around $2500 when new. I have twice that much in the chrome work I did.
For example, two bumpers for the same car may be a considerably different price due to different degrees of deterioration. For estimates, please feel free to contact us; for firm prices, we need to see your parts. Some general price ranges for show chrome items are listed below.
1 Auto Parts Warehouse estimates that a basic steel chrome-plated bumper can cost $120-$1,000 or more, while a carbon fiber bumper might be $650-$5,000 or more.
We specialize in chrome bumper repair and chrome plating of bumpers, bumper guards, moldings, door handles and other misc. custom chrome. Shop with confidence. View our eBay online feedback here; we have helped hundreds of car enthusiasts with chrome for their classic automobiles.
1 Replacing a typical passenger car bumper can cost $100-$1,000 or more for just the bumper, depending on the year, make and model of vehicle; the material the bumper is made of; and whether the bumper was produced by the vehicle's original manufacturer (OEM) or is an aftermarket bumper made by other companies.
For instance I'll quote a bumper at $250-$300 then set the actual price when I've seen the condition of the bumper. You can price shop to know if your getting a fair deal. Almost all chrome shops will give you a quote for free. We offer a free quote online at www.justchromeit.com.
Bumpers and automotive show chrome are lifetime guaranteed to our original customer (or customer’s client). We also customize some bumpers for customers by eliminating bolt holes, adding studs, welding bumpers together, and adding patches. The general price range is between $500 and $2,000. Most stock bumpers cost $750 to $1,200. Radiator Shells and Grills: People send us their radiator shells and grills from all over the world because of the care and quality that we take in repairing them.