Polyarteritis Nodosa (PAN) is a very rare vasculitic disease which affects the medium sized vessels. It can affect any organ in the body but commonly the muscles, joints, intestines, nerves and skin are affected. It can be associated with Hepatitis B virus infection. 
Polyarteritis nodosa is a serious disorder that causes chronic inflammation of the small and medium arteries of the body. Inflammation of the arteries leads to an inability of the arteries to adequately supply oxygenated blood to various tissues and results in many manifestations in different organs and body systems. Polyarteritis nodosa results in a wide variety of symptoms and complications that can affect many parts of the body. The most common sites of symptoms and complications include the eyes, nerves, skin, kidneys, heart, genitals, and gastrointestinal tract.
Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a type of vasculitis that mainly affects medium-sized arteries. Vasculitis includes a group of diseases where your immune system attacks the blood vessels and results in inflammation. 
Polyarteritis Nodosa. Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a rare disease that results from blood vessel inflammation (vasculitis) causing injury to organ systems. The areas most commonly affected by PAN include the nerves, intestinal tract, heart, and joints. Vasculitis is a general term that refers to inflammation of the blood vessels. When inflamed, the blood vessel may become weakened and stretch in size, which can lead to aneurysms, or become so thin that they rupture resulting in bleeding into the tissue.
Additional Info. Polyarteritis nodosa is a rare, but potentially life threatening, inflammation of the blood vessels (vasculitis) that damages the walls of the body's small-and medium-sized arteries. 
Polyarteritis nodosa is a type of inflammation of the blood vessels (vasculitis) that affects medium-and large-sized arteries. Depending on which blood vessels are involved and specifically the tissues they supply, injury can occur to internal organs, such as the kidneys or bowel. Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) facts. 1  Polyarteritis nodosa is an autoimmune disease that affects arteries. 2  Common areas affected include the muscles, joints, intestines (bowels), nerves, kidneys, and skin.
Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a condition that causes swollen arteries. It primarily affects small and medium-sized arteries, which can become inflamed or damaged. This is a serious disease of the blood vessels caused by an immune system malfunction. Ongoing treatment is crucial for survival, and there is a risk of serious complications for patients who don’t seek medical care.
Infantile polyarteritis nodosa is restricted to infants. In polyarteritis nodosa, small aneurysms are strung like the beads of a rosary, therefore making rosary sign an important diagnostic feature of the vasculitis. With treatment, five-year survival is 80%; without treatment, five-year survival is 13%. Polyarteritis nodosa: Macroscopic specimen of the heart with abundant adipose tissue and nodular thickened coronary vessels. In this disease, symptoms result from ischemic damage to affected organs, often the skin, heart, kidneys, and nervous system.
Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a systemic necrotizing vasculitis that typically affects medium-sized muscular arteries and occasionally affects small muscular arteries, resulting in secondary tissue ischemia. 