No, you need to have a work visa to work in the U.S. Citizens of the EU can enter the US without a visa under the Visa Waiver Program, but there are certain restrictions or conditions for using the program. Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Pick a visa There are basically NINE ways that you can get a visa to live and work in the US: (1) Marriage (or engagement in anticipation of marriage) to a US citizen. (2) You have skills that are in short supply in the US e.g. scientific or medical training. A degree is normally a must
Hi Evrybody! I'm Italian and I would like to know if it is possible for an Italian citizen to come to US and start a new life there. Find a house, find a job and start living in your country. I'm so tired of the so many things that go wrong here in Italy. Would it be possible for my boyfriend and I to move to the... 
How Benefits Can Be Paid. If you have Social Security credits in both the United States and Italy, you may be eligible for benefits from one or both countries. If you meet all the basic requirements under one country’s system, you will get a regular benefit from that country. Claims For Benefits. If you live in the United States and wish to apply for U.S. or Italian benefits: 1  visit or write any U.S. Social Security office; or. 2  phone our toll-free number, 1-800-772-1213, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. any business day.
How can I live and work in the United States? The easiest way to explain how you can live and work in the U.S. is to give a summary of U.S. immigration law. 
The right to work in Italy depends fundamentally on your citizenship. In the broadest brushstroke terms it can be explained this way. If you are a citizen of an European Union nation you are eligible to be employed in Italy. Example: You're an Irish national and visiting Rome; you're offered a job by an Italian company. You can fill out the paperwork, accept the job, and be legally employed. Don t mistake the permesso di soggiorno you can get for a 90-day, non-resident stay for a work document. It is not. The famous permesso is merely a short-term residency permit that confirms your legal right to reside in Italy for three months (or more) as a non-working visitor.
American citizens resident in the United States, legal permanent residents of the United States, and employers based in the United States who wish to file immigrant or fiance(fiancé) e visa petitions for residents Of italy should contact their Nearest department Of Homeland-Security.U. s American citizens resident in the United States, legal permanent residents of the United States, and employers based in the United States who wish to file immigrant or fiance(fiancé) e visa petitions for residents Of malta
American citizens resident in Italy who wish to file fiance(fiancé) e visa petitions for residents Of italy should contact an office of The department Of Homeland, Security.U. S citizenship And Immigration, services in The United. states American citizens resident in the United States, legal permanent residents of the United States, and employers based in the United States who wish to file immigrant or fiance(fiancé) e visa petitions for residents Of malta should contact their Nearest department Of Homeland-Security.U. s
The legal working age is the minimum age required by law for a person to work, in each country or jurisdiction. Some types of labor are commonly prohibited even for those above the working age, if they have not reached yet the age of majority. 
It's based instead on the principle than citizens of non-EU states are not entitled to work in Italy unless they can prove they are doing sought-after duties that only a non-EU citizen can perform and that an Italian-based (or U.S. based) company wants them in Italy specifically to do. Don t mistake the permesso di soggiorno you can get for a 90-day, non-resident stay for a work document. It is not. The famous permesso is merely a short-term residency permit that confirms your legal right to reside in Italy for three months (or more) as a non-working visitor.