Niepce’s experiment was followed by that of Daguerre. Daguerre played an important role in the history of the camera. The daguerreotype method helped preserved images and took less than half an hour to produce the image. A different type of camera called the calotype was invented by William Talbot in 1840. The history of the camera is long and complex. Louis-Jacques-Mande Daguerre invented the first photographic device in 1836. George Eastman popularized photographic film in 1885. However, camera like devices appeared years earlier. The Camera Obscura. The first known instance of people being aware of photography theory was in 5th century China
1814 The camera obscura is developed Joseph Niepce developed the camera obscura and took the first photo with it. It wasn't ideal, though, because it took 8 hours of light exposure to make a picture, and the picture faded with time. 1837 The Daguerreotype was invented Louis Daguerre invented a new way to take pictures.
Alhazen invented the first Pinhole Camera, also known as Camera Obscura. It made people aware of the true reason as to why the image was often upside down. Joseph N. Niepce made the first photographic image. Joseph's main idea was to capture the image by making the light draw the picture. The camera was first designed by Joseph N. Niepce, a retired French Military Officer. He invented his first camera in 1826 in France. This camera was known as Obscura, comprising of two wooden boxes out of which one box had a lens and the other had a screen, which was green in colour.
The first camera invented was made by Alexander Wolcott. His camera design was patented on May 8, 1840. His invention made it possible for candid photos to be taken and not fade away with time. Mr. Wolcott also has the distinction of opening the earliest photography shop (known as a daguerran parlor) in New York. The First Camera Invented. The first camera invented by Mr. Wolcott in 1841 received U.S. patent number 1,582. This camera could take candid photos and Mr. Wolcott used the daguerreotype process to reproduce the images on paper.
Johann Zahn designed the first camera in 1685. But the first photograph was clicked by Joseph Nicephore Niepce in the year 1814. It was thousands of years back that an Iraqi scientist Ibn-al-Haytham made a mention of this kind of a device in his book, Book of Optics in 1021. The earlier cameras were incapable of saving the images and were huge in size. The first practical photography was invented by Louis Daquerre in 1829 but he took almost 10 years to produce the effective method which was named after him as daquerreotype.
First Camera The first camera was called the Kodak. It was made for sale in 1888, bulldust it was made in the 1950 by Nick Kirby. and it was a very good camera. I am not sure … when cameras were invented, but projection was first invented way back in Ancient China and Greece, with Camera Obscura. 1 1840 First American patent issued in photography to Alexander Wolcott for his camera. 2  1841 William Henry Talbot patents the Calotype process-the first negative-positive process making possible the multiple copies. 3  1843 First advertisement with a photograph made in Philadelphia.
1888 The invention of the roll-film camera George Eastman invented the first roll-film camera. 1948 The Polaroid camera is marketed The Polaroid allowed people to take a photo and have it developed immediately, right from the camera. 1963 Colored film is introduced Polaroid came out with the first colored film. Joseph Niepce developed the camera obscura and took the first photo with it. It wasn't ideal, though, because it took 8 hours of light exposure to make a picture, and the picture faded with time.
The first camera was invented by Alexander Wolcott. His camera design was patented on 8 may, 1840. With the invention of Alexander Wolcott it was possible to click candid pictures that did not fade away with time. 