Staten Island Cricket Club, founded in 1872, is the oldest continuous cricket club in the United States. Our home ground is Walker Park, at Bard Avenue, where Don Bradman, Garry Sobers, Everton Weekes, Gilbert Jessop, Geoffrey Boycott, and so many other cricketing greats have played.
History. Established in 1905. The Staten Island Ferry, a service of the NYC Department of Transportation, has been a municipal service since 1905, and currently carries over 21 million passengers annually on a 5.2-mile run between the St. George Terminal in Staten Island and the Whitehall Terminal in lower Manhattan.
Staten Island Philharmonic has established an annual tradition of July 4th concerts at Staten Island’s Alice Austen House on the North Shore, with repeat performances at Staten Island’s Conference House on the South Shore. We are also looking forward, in 2014, to our third annual end-of-year Holiday Harmonies concert.
Pastor Sutter, a lifelong supporter of Wagner College, had established his own ministry on Staten Island in 1907. Through Sutter’s efforts, Wagner College relocated to Grymes Hill on Staten Island in 1918. Pastor Sutter could not have chosen a more beautiful site for this new beginning.
We meet Wednesday evenings from 7pm until closing at the following location: Saint Paul's-Saint Luke's Lutheran Church 184 Decker Avenue Staten Island, NY 10302 The entrance to the nicely furnished lower level of the building is on the Catherine street side of the church.
In 1661, the first permanent settlement was established on Staten Island. The years that followed saw the development of small villages, with a cemetery in the northern section of the Island that was in use until 1696.
By this time, Wagner had become a well-established institution on Staten Island, and deservedly gained a reputation as such. During the 1940s, another of Staten Island’s famous residents distinguished the College with a gift.
Nov. 1, 1683 — Staten Island is named Richmond County after Duke of Richmond, Charles II’s illegitimate son. 1695 — Voorlezer’s House, now the nation’s oldest school building, is built in Cocclestown (Richmond). 1747 — First ferry established between Manhattan and North Shore.
Lois and Richard Nicotra, owners of The Corporate Park of Staten Island. Founded in 1976 as a major international fast-food franchise by Lois and Richard Nicotra, The Nicotra Group, LLC has since developed into Staten Island’s premiere real estate development company with properties in Staten Island and Manhattan.