The vagus nerve innervates the larynx, the pharynx, the upper part of the oesophagus, the part of the external hearing apparatus, the heart, the lungs, the stomach, the intestine and even several muscles. The accessory nerve, known as the eleventh cranial nerve, is a motor nerve, that regulates the muscular activity. The vagus nerve, or tenth cranial nerve, is the longest and most important nerve of the parasympathetic nervous system (it belongs to the neurovegetative system) as it regulates the functions of almost all of the internal organs.
But in many cases, gastroparesis is believed to be caused by damage to a nerve that controls the stomach muscles (vagus nerve). The vagus nerve helps manage the complex processes in your digestive tract, including signaling the muscles in your stomach to contract and push food into the small intestine. This may cause food to remain in your stomach longer, rather than move normally into your small intestine to be digested. The vagus nerve can be damaged by diseases, such as diabetes, or by surgery to the stomach or small intestine. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk factors.
In the thorax and abdomen, the vagus nerve is the main parasympathetic outflow to the heart and gastro-intestinal organs. The Heart. Cardiac branches arise in the thorax, conveying parasympathetic innervation to the sino-atrial and atrio-ventricular nodes of the heart (For more heart anatomy, see here). 1 Pharyngeal branches – Provides motor innervation to the majority of the muscles of the pharynx and soft palate. 2  Superior laryngeal nerve – Splits into internal and external branches. 3  The external laryngeal nerve innervates the cricothyroid muscle of the larynx.
Fig 1.1 – The origin of the recurrent laryngeal nerves. In the thorax, the right vagus nerve forms the posterior vagal trunk, and the left forms the anterior vagal trunk. Branches from the vagal trunks contribute to the formation of the oesophageal plexus, which innervates the smooth muscle of the oesophagus. 1 Pharyngeal branches – Provides motor innervation to the majority of the muscles of the pharynx and soft palate. 2  Superior laryngeal nerve – Splits into internal and external branches. 3  The external laryngeal nerve innervates the cricothyroid muscle of the larynx.
It gets this name because the nerve wanders from the brain stem via various organs in the neck, thorax and abdomen. The vagus nerve is two nerves that go through the brain stem and enter different parts of the body such as the heart and the stomach. Vagus nerve leaves the brain stem from the rootlets present in the medulla that has been found to be caudal to the rootlets in the ninth carnial nerve.
The nerve supply (innervation) of the stomach plays important roles in 1  : holding food in the stomach until it can be processed by the rest of the gastrointestinal tract. The vagus nerve is the tenth cranial nerve (CN X) and is responsible for parasymapthetic nerve supply to the stomach. It enters the abdomen through the esophageal hiatus in the diaphragm.
Autonomic Nervous System. The autonomic nervous system (ANS) regulates the functions of our internal organs (the viscera) such as the heart, stomach and intestines. The ANS is part of the peripheral nervous system and it also controls some of the muscles within the body. Neuroscience For Kids
1 It can cause problems in the digestion of food in the stomach as it helps in peristalsis of the stomach. 2  Vagus nerve disorders can occur when there is pressure on the vagus nerve or due to other stimulation. 3  Sometimes people lose the vagus nerve in a cancer surgery. The vagus nerve is two nerves that go through the brain stem and enter different parts of the body such as the heart and the stomach. Vagus nerve leaves the brain stem from the rootlets present in the medulla that has been found to be caudal to the rootlets in the ninth carnial nerve.
This portion of the nervous system innervates many of the organs in the chest and abdomen including, the heart, lungs, bronchial tubes, gallbladder, liver, stomach, pancreas, spleen, adrenal glands, kidneys, and small intestines. The nervous system controls and coordinates every function of the human body. Therefore, interference with the nervous system will have a broad effect on function of the body. It is your nervous system that allows you to adapt to, and live in your environment.