More important than absolute cholesterol levels is the ratio of HDL (“good” cholesterol that clears dangerous small LDL particles that easily oxidize, or turn rancid, to form plaque in your artery walls) to either LDL or total cholesterol. 
To calculate your cholesterol ratio, divide your high-density lipoprotein (HDL, or good) cholesterol number into your total cholesterol number. An optimal ratio is less than 3.5-to-1. A higher ratio means a higher risk of heart disease. 
A score under 100 mg/dL is considered optimal. An LDL cholesterol score of 130-159 mg/dL is borderline high, 160-189 mg/dL is high and 190 mg/dL is very high. With the LDL measurement and the total cholesterol measurement, you want to see these numbers lower, instead of high. Ad. In contrast, HDL cholesterol score is better when the number is higher.
This blood test checks the levels of cholesterol in your body. A lipid panel will show the levels of your total cholesterol, your LDL (bad) cholesterol, and your HDL (good) cholesterol. In general, the higher your total and LDL cholesterol levels, the higher your risk for coronary heart disease. But some heart attacks happen in people who don't have a high LDL level
A good cholesterol score for HDL is 60 mg/dL or better. 40 mg/dL or lower is considered a risk factor for developing heart disease. Doctors may measure triglyceride levels when blood cholesterol score is computed. Generally a good score for triglycerides is less than 150 mg/dL. An LDL cholesterol score of 130-159 mg/dL is borderline high, 160-189 mg/dL is high and 190 mg/dL is very high. With the LDL measurement and the total cholesterol measurement, you want to see these numbers lower, instead of high. Ad. In contrast, HDL cholesterol score is better when the number is higher.
When evaluating total cholesterol level, the desired cholesterol score should be less than 200 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). A score between 200-239 mg/dL is considered borderline high and a score of 240 mg/dL or above is high. An LDL cholesterol score of 130-159 mg/dL is borderline high, 160-189 mg/dL is high and 190 mg/dL is very high. With the LDL measurement and the total cholesterol measurement, you want to see these numbers lower, instead of high. Ad. In contrast, HDL cholesterol score is better when the number is higher.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. When it comes to HDL cholesterol -- good cholesterol – a higher number means lower risk. This is because HDL cholesterol protects against heart disease by taking the bad cholesterol out of your blood and keeping it from building up in your arteries. A statin can slightly increase your HDL, as can exercise.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. When it comes to HDL cholesterol -- good cholesterol – a higher number means lower risk. This is because HDL cholesterol protects against heart disease by taking the bad cholesterol out of your blood and keeping it from building up in your arteries. A statin can slightly increase your HDL, as can exercise.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. Your total cholesterol level is High. Your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Borderline High. Working to bring down your total cholesterol decreases your LDL cholesterol level. You can do this by exercising more and eating less food with saturated fats.
Total Blood or Serum Cholesterol. This is the sum of your HDL and LDL cholesterol scores and is generally a good indicator of whether you’re at risk for heart disease. 1  Optimal: Less than 200 mg/dL. 2  Borderline high: 200-239 mg/dL. 3  High: 240 mg/dL or higher. A high level of “bad” LDL cholesterol can clog the arteries and is a major risk factor for heart disease. Keeping your LDL as low as possible is a good way to protect your health. 1  Optimal: Less than 100 mg/dL. 2  Normal/Near Optimal: 100-129 mg/dL. 3  Borderline High: 130-159 mg/dL.