Types of biomass. There are many types of plants in the world, and many ways they can be used for energy production. In general there are two approaches: growing plants specifically for energy use, and using the residues from plants that are used for other things. 
Some kinds of biomass can be burned to produce energy. One common example is wood. Biomass contains stored energy. That's because plants absorb energy from the sun through the process of photosynthesis. When biomass is burned, this stored energy is released as heat. Burning biomass releases carbon dioxide. However, plants also take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere and use it to grow their leaves, flowers, branches, and stems. That same carbon dioxide is returned to the air when the plants are burned
Methane is a good energy source. We can burn it to produce heat or to generate electricity.In some landfills, wells are drilled into the piles of garbage to capture methane produced from the decaying waste. The methane can be purified and used as an energy source, just like natural gas. Biomass is any organic matter that can be used as an energy source. Wood, crops, and yard and animal waste are examples of biomass. People have used biomass longer than any other energy source. For thousands of years, people have burned wood to heat their homes and cook their food.Biomass gets its energy from the sun
Many different kinds of biomass, such as wood chips, corn, and some types of garbage, are used to produce electricity. Some types of biomass can be converted into liquid fuels called biofuels that can power cars, trucks, and tractors. When biomass is burned, this stored energy is released as heat. Burning biomass releases carbon dioxide. However, plants also take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere and use it to grow their leaves, flowers, branches, and stems.
Let's review. Biomass energy is the term used for energy derived from organic materials such as plants, trees, grasses, and organic wastes. When you have crops grown to be used as fuel, not food, they are referred to as energy crops. There are several ways to convert biomass into energy. The gas that is produced can be captured and used in gas turbines and other systems to generate electricity. Gasification is more efficient than burning biomass and results in even lower emissions of greenhouse gases. Another way biomass can be converted into energy is through fermentation.
Examples of biomass include: plants, crops, trees and garbage. Biomass in itself contains chemical energy. So, when you burn wood which is a biomass fuel, the chemical energy inside releases as heat. It can also be used to produce steam which can further be used to generate electricity. 
Ethanol can be used in place of gasoline to power cars or mixed with gasoline to produce a fuel called gasohol. Conversion: Energy is produced by converting biomass (like cow manure) into gas (like methane) and liquid fuels. By adding heat or chemicals to the biomass, a fuel is produced that can be burned to produce electricity. Bacterial Decay: Natural bacteria feed on dead and decaying plants and animals. As they decay, it produces a gas called methane. Methane is odorless, colorless and very rich in energy. Burning: Energy is produced by burning wood, animal waste like manure, corn cobs, sugar cane, fruit pits and garbage. Garbage is used in many towns to produce electricity in waste-to-energy plants. By burning the garbage, these towns save on the use of landfills.
Since they can be grown again, this energy source is fully renewable. Another important source of biomass in the home is garbage, which is approximately 60% biomass. The easiest and most efficient way to use biomass as energy is to burn it. When it is burned, a part of the internal chemical energy convers to heat. For some homeowners, certain types of garbage can be burned to heat their homes, although this is not always a practical in a modern home. The term biomass casually refers to biological material that can be used as fuel. It can be something as simple as a wooden log or more complex like alcohol. Biomass for millennia has been the primary energy source on the planet.
Biomass is any organic matter-wood, crops, seaweed, animal wastes-that can be used as an energy source. Biomass is probably our oldest source of energy. For thousands of years, people have burned wood to heat their homes and cook their food. Biomass gets its energy from the sun. 