The know-it-all is wrong. Guppies are very hardy as to temperature. They live and breed in waters anywhere from about 60 F (15.5 C) to about 90 F (32 C). Their ideal temperature range, though, is between about 75 and 80 F (24 and 27 C), which is right where you have it. Cheers! Best Answer: Guppies are very tolerant of temperature, and can live happily between about 19 and 29C. 24-26C is about perfect. In cooler water they swim a bit slower, eat less and grow slower, but can actually live longer.
Alkaline and warm water conditions can also be considered. The perfect temperature for an aquarium sheltering guppy fish are about 72-80 Degree F. 3. When you introduce new guppies into a tank, they may carry many bacteria and parasites along with them, which can infect other fish in that tank. Tips. 1  For an aquarium homing guppies, pH level from 7.0 - 8.1 can be considered as healthy. 2  Unless you live somewhere where the temperature never gets cool, even at night, you need a heater in the aquarium. 3  You also should have a thermometer just to keep watch of the temperature, and ensure it's safe for the fish.
Optimal Temps. Keep guppies' water temperatures between 74 and 82 degrees Fahrenheit. These optimal water temperatures are similar to those of most tank fish. Aquarium residents generally succeed in temperatures that are in the range of 70 to 80 degrees. Datnoids and clown loaches like ultra-warm water above 80 though, while paradisefish prefer room temperature.
I have a 55 gallon tank with some Guppies, neon tetras, cories and cherry barbs in it. What temperature should I set my heater to? The pet store where I bought my fish just says 26C for most of the tropical fish. I had my heater set to 25C, thinking that 26C or higher would cause an algae bloom. 
Your Guppies will do best if you keep the water temperature between 75 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit in the aquarium, and the pH between 6.8 and 7.6. Guppies should be fed once or twice a day. It is very important not to over-feed your Guppy. All food should be consumed after just a few minutes. 
Forum: 26,565. Votes: 1,413. Guppies are not especially demanding, but they do need a well maintained aquarium with a working nitrogen cycle, filter, heater, full hood, light, plants, etc. Water temperature should be 75 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit (24 to 27 C). If you feed no more than the fish eat in a couple of minutes, avoid overcrowding and change 25 percent of the water every week, medications will not be required. So far as what to feed guppies, there is a wide selection. 
Aquarium. It is suggested to use a ten gallon aquarium or larger for guppies. There should not be more than 1 guppy per gallon, unless you have a good filteration system. For baby guppies, a one gallon tank is sufficient. It is a good idea to have more than one tank so male and female guppies can be kept separate.
Guppies prefer a hard water aquarium with a temperature between 25.5° and 27.8 °C and salt levels equivalent to one tablespoon per 19 litres. In fact, they can withstand levels of salinity up to 150% that of normal seawater. 
Other Needs. Temperature isn't the only water-related concern for aquarium guppies. It is also crucial to take the pH of water into consideration. Guppies tend to react positively to pH levels of roughly 7.0. They also appreciate medium-hardness of their H20, but hard water doesn't usually pose a problem for them, either. Aquarium residents generally succeed in temperatures that are in the range of 70 to 80 degrees. Datnoids and clown loaches like ultra-warm water above 80 though, while paradisefish prefer room temperature.