A fungus (/ˈfʌŋɡəs/ ; plural: fungi or funguses) is any member of the group of eukaryotic organisms that includes unicellular microorganisms such as yeasts and molds, as well as multicellular fungi that produce familiar fruiting forms known as mushrooms. Like plants, fungi often grow in soil, and in the case of mushrooms form conspicuous fruit bodies, which sometimes resemble plants such as mosses. The fungi are now considered a separate kingdom, distinct from both plants and animals, from which they appear to have diverged around one billion years ago.
Within the main body of mushrooms, in the Agaricales, are common fungi like the common fairy-ring mushroom, shiitake, enoki, oyster mushrooms, fly agarics and other amanitas, magic mushrooms like species of Psilocybe, paddy straw mushrooms, shaggy manes, etc. A hymenium is a layer of microscopic spore-bearing cells that covers the surface of gills. In the nongilled mushrooms, the hymenium lines the inner surfaces of the tubes of boletes and polypores, or covers the teeth of spine fungi and the branches of corals.
Most fungi reproduce by releasing tiny spores that then germinate (sprout) and grow into a new fungus. The spores are produced by, and released from, a fruiting body that is visible above the ground. Some fungi drop spores, which are blown away by the wind. Others shoot them out in an explosive burst. Fungi called molds produce the woolly or furry growths found on rotting foods, such as bread and fruit. The growths are formed by threadlike hyphae that grow upward and release spores from their tips. These spores then sprout on other foods.
Spores are usually haploid and unicellular and are produced by meiosis in the sporangium of a diploid sporophyte. Under favourable conditions the spore can develop into a new organism using mitotic division, producing a multicellular gametophyte, which eventually goes on to produce gametes. Heterosporous plants, such as seed plants, spikemosses, quillworts, and some aquatic ferns produce spores of two different sizes: the larger spore (megaspore) in effect functioning as a female spore and the smaller (microspore) functioning as a male.
A mushroom (or toadstool) is the fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus, typically produced above ground on soil or on its food source. A hymenium is a layer of microscopic spore-bearing cells that covers the surface of gills. In the nongilled mushrooms, the hymenium lines the inner surfaces of the tubes of boletes and polypores, or covers the teeth of spine fungi and the branches of corals.
Introduction. Spores are specialised cells of the fungus that can function as resting or dispersal propagules. Each spore has the potential to generate another individual of the species. In contrast to seeds, spores have no specialised components that differentiate them from other cells of the thallus. The zygospore is formed inside a sporangium, and usually only one spore is found in each zygosporangium. Meiosis takes place immediately prior to germination of the zygospore, and the emerging thallus is haploid. Ascus formation animation. The haploid sexual spores of the Ascomycota are formed inside an ascus.
The spore producing structures mentioned so far in these pages are not the familiar mushrooms. Spore release in mushrooms is not completely understood. Cells called basidia produce spores, which cover the surface of the gills or pores on the underside of a mushroom's cap. Mushrooms and other fungi that possess basidia are known as Basidiomycetes. 
Toadstools are brightly colored and poisonous to eat, but mushrooms are usually edible and dull in color. Both toadstools and mushrooms are fruiting bodies (spore-bearing structures) produced by fungi. They belong to the same group, the Basidiomycetes, so scientists make no distinction between the two. The bright red color of these fly agaric toadstool caps warns animals that they are poisonous. Fungi called molds produce the woolly or furry growths found on rotting foods, such as bread and fruit. The growths are formed by threadlike hyphae that grow upward and release spores from their tips. These spores then sprout on other foods.
In the case of the Amanita, the spore-producing cells are in the gills, but in other types of mushrooms, spores are produced in tubes or inside the cap. By comparing this illustration to the spore above, it is evident which parts of the spore develop into specific structures of the fruiting body. Spores are released in a cloud when the asci break open. Gilled mushrooms have basidia located on the gills on the underside of the cap. The spores are dropped from the gills when mature. In boletes, the basidia are located in tubes within the flesh of the cap of the mushroom.
In fungi and fungus-like organisms, spores are often classified by the structure in which meiosis and spore production occurs. Since fungi are often classified according to their spore-producing structures, these spores are often characteristic of a particular taxon of the fungi. 1  Sporangiospores: spores produced by a sporangium in many fungi such as zygomycetes. 2  Zygospores: spores produced by a zygosporangium, characteristic of zygomycetes. Heterosporous plants, such as seed plants, spikemosses, quillworts, and some aquatic ferns produce spores of two different sizes: the larger spore (megaspore) in effect functioning as a female spore and the smaller (microspore) functioning as a male.