BREO ELLIPTA for Asthma  BREO ELLIPTA is a combination ICS/LABA indicated for the once-daily treatment of asthma in patients aged 12 years and older.  The recommended starting dosage of BREO ELLIPTA is 100/25 or BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 administered as 1 inhalation once daily. A-91. 
Breo Ellipta. FLUTICASONE; VILANTEROL inhalation is a combination of two medicines that decrease inflammation and help to open up the airways of your lungs. It is for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis or emphysema. It is also used for asthma in adults to help control symptoms.
1 Do not use BREO if you have a severe allergy to milk proteins or are allergic to any of the ingredients in BREO. 2  Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure. 3  Do not use BREO more often than prescribed. 4  Do not take BREO with other medicines that contain a LABA for any reason. 1 Do not use BREO to relieve sudden breathing problems. 2  Always have a rescue inhaler with you to treat sudden symptoms. 3  Do not use BREO if you have a severe allergy to milk proteins or are allergic to any of the ingredients in BREO. 4  Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure.
Breo Ellipta (fluticasone furoate and vilanterol inhalation powder) is designed to reduce lung inflammation and to relax muscles that impact the lung airways, the FDA said Friday in a news release. The drug's safety and effectiveness were clinically evaluated in some 7,700 people with COPD. 
The incidence of adverse reactions associated with BREO ELLIPTA in Table 1 is based on 2 placebo-controlled, 6-month clinical trials (Trials 1 and 2; n = 1,224 and n = 1,030, respectively). Of the 2,254 subjects, 70% were male and 84% were Caucasian. It is also used to reduce exacerbations (sudden worsening) of COPD in patients with a history of exacerbations. Common side effects from use of Breo Ellipta are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and oral candidiasis (thrush). Breo Ellipta is dosed as 100 mcg/25 mcg once daily. Breo Ellipta is a dry powder for oral inhalation only. Patients with allergies to milk or milk proteins and patients with sensitivities to any component of Breo Ellipta should not use it
BREO is a combination of two medicines—an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) medicine called fluticasone furoate, and a long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA) medicine called vilanterol—creating the first and only once-daily ICS/LABA that helps improve lung function for a full 24 hours. Your results may vary. 1 Do not use BREO to relieve sudden breathing problems. 2  Always have a rescue inhaler with you to treat sudden symptoms. 3  Do not use BREO if you have a severe allergy to milk proteins or are allergic to any of the ingredients in BREO. 4  Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved Breo Ellipta (fluticasone furoate and vilanterol inhalation powder) for the long-term, once-daily, maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and/or emphysema. “The availability of new long-term maintenance medications provides additional treatment options for the millions of Americans who suffer with COPD.”. Breo Ellipta is a combination of fluticasone furoate, an inhaled corticosteroid, and vilanterol, a long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist (LABA). The safety and efficacy of Breo Ellipta were evaluated in 7,700 patients with a clinical diagnosis of COPD