Lahar is an Indonesian word meaning mudflow.. A lahar is a form of a mudslide, triggered most often by a volcanic eruption, which flows down the mountain. They are also called debris avalanches. As the lahar travels down the mountain, other debris such as rocks, logs, and trees become part of the fast moving mudslide. 
Volcanoes and Humans. Mudflows are somewhat of a misnomer, because these volcanic flows include not only mud, but debris ranging up to boulder size. The term, however, has been commonly applied to water-saturated volcanic flows and is well entrenched in the literature. The Indonesian word lahar refers to mudflows in volcanic terrain
Introduction. Lahars are mudflows that originate on the slopes of a volcano. The mudflows contain so much rock debris they look and feel like flowing wet concrete. They are triggered by a variety of events including pyroclastic flows, rainstorms and the collapse of debris dams. The mudflow began when a small pyroclastic occurred on Nevada del Ruiz, a volcano about 30 miles away. The mudflow was 9 to 15 feet high when it struck the village late at night as the people in the village sleeping. Twenty-two thousand people were killed by the lahar.
Description [edit]. Lahar is a Javanese word that describes volcanic mudflows or debris flows. Lahars have the consistency, viscosity and approximate density of wet concrete: fluid when moving, solid at rest. Lahars can be huge. Lahars have several possible causes: 1  Snow and glaciers can be melted by lava or pyroclastic flows during an eruption. 2  Lava flows out of open vents and can mix with wet soil and mud on the slope of the volcano making a very viscous, high energy lahar. 3  A flood caused by a glacier, lake breakout, or heavy rainfall can release a lahar, also called ....
Mudflows are often called mudslides, a term applied indiscriminately by the mass media to a variety of mass wasting events. Mudflows often start as slides, becoming flows as water is entrained along the flow path; such events are often called flow slides. When a mudflow occurs it is given four named areas, the 'main scarp', in bigger mudflows the 'upper and lower shelves' and the 'toe'. The main scarp will be the original area of incidence, the toe is the last affected area(s).
A lahar /ˈlɑːhɑr/ is a type of mudflow or debris flow composed of a slurry of pyroclastic material, rocky debris, and water. Lahars have several possible causes: 1  Snow and glaciers can be melted by lava or pyroclastic flows during an eruption. 2  Lava flows out of open vents and can mix with wet soil and mud on the slope of the volcano making a very viscous, high energy lahar. 3  A flood caused by a glacier, lake breakout, or heavy rainfall can release a lahar, also called ....
Mailboxes caught in a mudflow. A mudflow or mud flow is a form of mass wasting involving very rapid to extremely rapid surging flow of debris that has become partially or fully liquified by the addition of significant amounts of water to the source material. When a mudflow occurs it is given four named areas, the 'main scarp', in bigger mudflows the 'upper and lower shelves' and the 'toe'. The main scarp will be the original area of incidence, the toe is the last affected area(s).
The volcanic mudflows that occur at stratovolcanoes are known as Lahars. These flows can travel up to sixty miles per hour and have a consistency of wet cement. These flows de … stroy everything in their path and can travel up to a hundred miles down the valleys from a voclano. When a volcano erupts, sometimes the heat melts the ice and snow on the top of the volcano. This releases a large amount of water that gets mixed with the ash from the erupted … volcano. The mixture of ash and water rushing down the volcano can pick up lots of debris.
It depends what you mean by a mudflow. Mudflows can be caused as secondary effects by volcanoes and they are known as lahars. For example the summit glacier on top of Nevado del Ruiz, Columnbia (1985) melted when it was about to erupt, causing a 130ft deep mudflow which killed 23,000 people who were thirty miles away from the volcano. When a volcano erupts, sometimes the heat melts the ice and snow on the top of the volcano. This releases a large amount of water that gets mixed with the ash from the erupted … volcano. The mixture of ash and water rushing down the volcano can pick up lots of debris.