Cloudy Urine. Cloudy urine is the turbidity of the urine with a cloudy appearance, that shows a brown, red, white, yellow or dark urine. Usually, it is normal or caused by urine infection, mixed with crystals, blood, bacteria, mucus, pus, free fat globules, epithelial cells or white blood cells in urine.
Some possible cloudy urine causes are: Food can cause a change in the consistency and color of your urine, although they are not the usual cause of cloudy urine. Blood in urine-When the blood is microscopic, it may not show bright red or dark red but rather it may appear as
If your cloudy urine is caused by a urinary tract infection, or bladder infection, it is usually treated by simple antibiotics and clears up within a couple of weeks. If your cloudy urine is caused by a kidney stone… you’ll usually know it, as the pain can be pretty intense.
A urinary tract infection-a UTI can cause cloudy urine. The urinary tract infection may be accompanied with burning or painful urination. A bladder infection (a more specific type of urinary tract infection), also known as Cystitis, may
Cloudy or milky urine is a sign of a urinary tract infection, which may also cause a bad smell. Milky urine may also be caused by bacteria, crystals, fat, white or red blood cells, or mucus in the urine.
... If your urine is cloudy and then clears up later in the day and you have no other symptoms, you probably have nothing to worry about. Eating a large meal or drinking lots of milk can cause urine to be cloudy temporarily.
There are a variety of cloudy urine causes. If your urine color is cloudy or looks like milky urine, it could be nothing to worry about … or it could be a sign of a serious illness. Keep in mind that cloudy urine is a symptom and not an illness by itself.
When the urine does not have its characteristic clear appearance, it is often referred to as cloudy, turbid, or foamy urine. Cloudy or foamy urine may occur occasionally due to mild dehydration; when it occurs in the absence of symptoms and goes away rapidly, it is usually of little consequence.
Healthy urine is clear and light yellow in color. Urine may appear cloudy for a variety of reasons, some of which are not harmful, such as foaming of the urine that occurs temporarily when urinating rapidly.