Dickinson /dick-in-son/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Dickinson is son of Dick. [ more ]. Dickinson is an uncommon given name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#1230 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Dickinson for boys. Dickinson has yet to make it into the Top 1000 thus far. (2014 Birth Statistics)
Join others on the Dickinson genealogy mailing list for discussion and sharing of information regarding family histories of Dickinson surname and its variations. Note: Not all surnames have a mailing list. If you get the Page is Not Available message, no mailing list is available. Instead, check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Dickinson in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Dickinson surname forum. Look for unknown cousins or relatives with whom you may have lost touch.
Dickson or, as is common in England, Dixon, is a patronymic surname, traditionally Scottish and thought to have originated upon the birth of the son of Richard Keith, son of Hervey de Keith, Earl Marischal of Scotland, and Margaret, daughter of the 3rd Lord of Douglas. Richard Keith's son, Thomas, took the surname Dickson, meaning Dick's son or Richard's son.. Thomas Dickson (1247–1307) himself has quite a history. He was associated in some way with William Wallace, and was killed by the English in 1307 in battle.
The affix of son in the Lowlands answering the prefix Mac in the Highlands.. As a result, Clan Dickson is considered a sept of Clan Keith. Richard Keith's son, Thomas, took the surname Dickson, meaning Dick's son or Richard's son.. Thomas Dickson (1247–1307) himself has quite a history. He was associated in some way with William Wallace, and was killed by the English in 1307 in battle.
This interesting surname is a patronymic form of Dick, which is of Scottish and English origin, and is derived from the pet form of the personal name Richard. The personal name was originally known as Ricehard, meaning a hard ruler, derived from the Germanic ric, power and hard, hardy, brave, strong; the name was later developed into Ricard.
Click on a place to view Dickinson immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Dickinson families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. 
Recordings from London Church Registers include: the marriage of Alexander Dickinson and Elizabeth Worship on April 24th 1649, at St. Katherine by the Tower, and the christening of Bartholomew, son of John and Penelope Dickinson, on August 24th 1718, at St. Bartholomew the Great. The personal name was originally known as Ricehard, meaning a hard ruler, derived from the Germanic ric, power and hard, hardy, brave, strong; the name was later developed into Ricard.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of William Dykouson, which was dated 1366, in the Subsidy Rolls of Lancashire, during the reign of King Edward 111, known as The Father of the Navy, 1327 - 1377. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. The personal name was originally known as Ricehard, meaning a hard ruler, derived from the Germanic ric, power and hard, hardy, brave, strong; the name was later developed into Ricard.
In the sixteenth century the word meaning was fellow; and further explains the name Dick is the familiar form of Richard, applied generally to any fellow or lad etc. Basil Cottle in the Penguin Dictionary of Surnames, explains that Dick is the diminutive form for Richard, and that Dickson is the son of Dick. From here the plot deepens, as a diminutive form of Dick is Dicken from which the name Dickenson is derived.