Laminate flooring also requires underlayment between the laminate and the floor. Some types of laminate come with attached underlayment; otherwise you will need to purchase a roll of underlayment. As of 2014, the cost of laminate flooring averages $1 to $6 per square foot. The cost of underlayment, fasteners, adhesives and surface sealants averages 32 cents per square foot as of 2014, with rolls typically sold in units of 100 square feet. It will cost an additional $50 to $66 to rent the equipment for the job
Laminate flooring is an alternative to refinishing your old hardwood floors. The price of laminate varies as does but the cost of installing the flooring. Before you decide who will install the laminate flooring, you should consider the cost and what needs to be done. Old Flooring Removal. If you have old flooring that must be removed before the laminate can be installed, that would be an additional cost to installing the flooring. Depending on what the flooring is that must be removed, the cost and time to clear the old flooring out of the room is an additional charge.
Home Depot charges $1.85 per square foot to remove laminate floors. It really depends on the quality of the people and the quality of the work they do. Location, location, loc … ation. I would guess you should be able to get it done for anywhere from 50 cents per square foot up to 1 dollar a square foot for removal. 
1 Low-cost laminate starts around 90 cents-$2 for thinner flooring (6-7mm). 2  With some additional costs for underlayment and matching baseboards/trim, it can run $450-$950 for basic laminate materials for a 20x20-square-foot living room. 1 With some additional costs for underlayment and matching baseboards/trim, it can run $450-$950 for basic laminate materials for a 20x20-square-foot living room. 2  Laminate prices are based in large part on how realistic-looking the flooring is; inexpensive laminate may look artificial
The cost of the laminate should be about $1-$4 per square foot, unless you choose a higher end product in which case the material cost could be significantly more. There are plenty of quality laminates to choose from which cost about $2 per square foot. If you want to hire a professional to install some laminate flooring for you, then you can expect the installation to cost approximately $2-$3
1 (It can be more for a custom-designed installation with an elaborate pattern, and small projects may have a minimum charge of $200-$500 .) For a 400-square-foot living room, labor and materials can run $1,250-$3,000 with basic laminate and $2,100-$5,000 with better quality products. 1 With some additional costs for underlayment and matching baseboards/trim, it can run $450-$950 for basic laminate materials for a 20x20-square-foot living room. 2  Laminate prices are based in large part on how realistic-looking the flooring is; inexpensive laminate may look artificial
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Laminate Flooring Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Laminate Flooring ranges between $5.67 - $7.70 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. Cost to Install Laminate Flooring-Notes and General Information. Homewyse cost estimates are ballpark ranges for basic work performed in normal, serviceable conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for firm quotes from qualified vendors.
1 Installation of the new flooring-The average price on a square foot of laminate flooring, installed, is between $7 and $11. 2  This assumes that the owner or the installer is also including the costs for the mandatory foam underlay and any adhesives or glues required for its installation. This means that some costs can be reduced where installation is concerned. For this discussion, we will consider the materials and costs for the installation of a laminate floor in the average 200 square foot kitchen (measuring 10'x20'). This pricing will assume that the owner will want to keep costs as low as possible, and will NOT include such things as: