In the wild, iguanas require a temperature of at least 75F, if not 90F. To make up for that lack of heat, most owners have to provide quarters with a UVB lamp as much for the heat, as to prevent them acquiring a bone disease. The iguana is an interesting creature that likes to climb and swim, and which comes with a nifty suit of outer skin featuring leathery overlapping scales, and tall plates resembling spines on their backs.
The average dolphin can only stay underwater for 8-10 minutes. Some  may hold their breath as long as 15 minutes. 
Family: Iguanidae. Genus/species: Iguana iguana. Description. The green iguana can weigh up to 18 pounds (8 kg) and can reach a length of five to seven feet (1.5 to 2 m). This iguana has a long body covered with soft leathery scales, a long tail and short legs. Its hard, long tail is used as a weapon and for balance when climbing. 
Typically when an alligator goes underwater it does so by submerging itself in the water or sinking to the bottom of the water. Afterwards they generally hold their breath and remain there for 10-15 minutes. When an alligator submerges itself, a flap that the creature is equipped with automatically closes off the alligator’s ears and nostrils. Another flap closes off the back of the alligator’s throat. Although alligators cannot breathe underwater, they are able to hold their breath for long periods of time while submerged. Usually these creatures are able to hold their breath anywhere from 4 to 15 minutes; however they have been known to remain underwater for longer periods of time if necessary.
Iguanas can stay underwater for up to 30 minutes. The iguana is an interesting creature that likes to climb and swim, and which comes with a nifty suit of outer skin featuring leathery overlapping scales, and tall plates resembling spines on their backs.
The average dolphin can only stay underwater for 8-10 minutes. Some  may hold their breath as long as 15 minutes. Turtles can stay under water from one hour to five hours depending on the species, water temperature ect.
The bigger marine iguanas (usually males) swim out past the waves and dive underwater to feed. They usually dive down about 5 to 16 feet, but some very large adults can dive up to 50 feet or more. They are usually underwater for just a few minutes, but have been known to stay underwater for over half an hour. Iguanas are cold blooded so they need outside heat to warm their bodies. They are the only lizards that are able to live and feed in the sea. Marine iguanas are vegetarians. They feed on seaweed and algae which they find on rocks, in tidal pools, or in the sea. The adult males can grow to over 5 feet long and the females up to almost 4 feet.
Normally, iguanas dont swim underwater. In the wild you see them swimming with their head up over the water so that they can breath. An iguana can stay underwater for 28.7 minutes. Turtles can stay under water from one hour to five hours depending on the species, water temperature ect.
The amazing iguana which can stay underwater for half an hour-to feed from the bottom of the ocean. By Rob Waugh. Published: 05:13 EST, 25 June 2012 | Updated: 04:07 EST, 26 June 2012. 