You can provide a suitable butterfly habitat that will help fortify the butterfly population, and as an added bonus, the habitat will bring you enjoyment in watching beautiful butterflies in your yard. The butterfly habitat should be relatively sunny (5-6 hours per day) and out of the wind. Facts About Butterflies. Natural butterfly habitats have been destroyed or affected by construction of housing and shopping developments, as well as by the use of pesticides and other chemicals.
Adult butterflies typically eat nectar from plants, so knowing which butterflies are local to you and which plants they feed on is important. There are also butterflies that eat pollen, tree sap, rotting fruit and even bugs, another good reason to know what you've got in your area. Butterflies also need sun. To attract butterflies, you'll need to give them a place to lay their eggs. Find out what butterflies are in your area and which plants they use to lay their eggs. Larva Stage. Commonly known as the caterpillar, it hatches out of the egg and feeds on the plant where the egg was laid.
Emphasizes natural plant/butterfly partnerships. A significant objective in the Butterfly Habitat Garden is to emphasize natural plant/butterfly partnerships. Plant labels provide a plant's botanical name, common name, region of origin and indicates the specific life cycle it supports. 
Butterflies have no particular habitat, they are cosmopolitan in  distribution and are found on every contentment except at the north  and south Poles.   They will be fo … und anywhere where there is a nectar food source  with which they can be sustained. the butterfly lives in the trees and plants. Lepidoptera larvae (butterfly) are usually found on their food plant, but may be well hidden. They can often be found by looking for damaged leaves.
Often, a butterfly habitat is influenced not by the diet of the adults but rather by the nutritional needs of the larva. To assure the survival of her young, a female butterfly lays eggs only on those plants that the caterpillars will eat. Unfortunately, most butterfly offspring are very picky eaters. The food source needed in a butterfly habitat varies among species. Some adult butterflies need no food at all and dedicate the whole of their adult lives to mating and laying eggs. Most butterflies, however, suck their food through a long straw-like tube called a proboscis.
Here are the most spectacular butterfly facts for kids including butterfly habitat, diet, and reproduction. Fundamentally speaking, a butterfly is a day-flying insect belongs to the Lepidoptera order. There are four parts of the butterfly’s lifecycle namely; egg, larva, pupa and adult. Nearly all species are diurnal.
In particular, monarch caterpillars eat milkweed because it makes them an unpleasant-tasting meal to predators. For the butterflies, which are able to suck and are unable to chew, you should include nectar plants with different colors of flowers, such as zinnias, lilacs, and the butterfly bush. Facts About Butterflies. Natural butterfly habitats have been destroyed or affected by construction of housing and shopping developments, as well as by the use of pesticides and other chemicals.
There are many types of butterfly habitat. The common element to these habitats usually is the availability of plants that provide a nectar source for adult butterflies and a food source for caterpillars. One of the best habitats to visit in the Western U.S. is mountain canyons--especially in canyons with running water. With water comes a wide variety of plants that support butterflies.
The Owl butterfly's habitat is in rainforests in Central and South  America. There are many species of Owl butterflies. They are a  large butterfly and can have a wingspan o … f up to 8 inches. Jane Savage. the butterfly lives in the trees and plants. Lepidoptera larvae (butterfly) are usually found on their food plant, but may be well hidden. They can often be found by looking for damaged leaves.