From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) is a species of pine that is native to Eurasia, ranging from Western Europe to Eastern Siberia, south to the Caucasus Mountains and Anatolia, and north to well inside the Arctic Circle in Scandinavia. In the north of its range, it occurs from sea level to 1,000 m, while in the south of its range it is a high altitude mountain tree, growing at 1,200–2,600 metres (3,900–8,500 ft) altitude. It is readily identified by its combination of fairly short, blue-green leaves and orange-red bark.
Scotch pine (Pinus sylvestris), also called Scots pine, is an introduced species in North America, brought here from Europe probably in colonial days. Although it is used for both pulpwood and sawlogs, its principal value in the United States appears to be as a Christmas tree, as an ornamental, and for erosion control. 
Scots Pine (Pinus sylvestris). Click images to enlarge. Scots pine, or Scotch pine, (pinus sylbestris), is a world native, from Europe and Asia, including Scotland, Ireland and Portugal, east to Siberia, south to the Caucasus Mountains, and as far north as the Arctic Circle in Scandinavia. 
Article. The Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) also known as the common pine or red fir is one of the most important tree species in Europe both economically and ecologically. The Scots pine is a much sought after tree from an economic point of view. They make up around 24% of forest cover in Germany, which corresponds to an area of about 2.5 million hectares (BMVEL, 2004), making it the second most common tree after the Norwegian spruce.
The bark of the Scots pine is also quite variable, with the young bark on small branches being papery thin and often orange-red in colour. The bark on the trunk of a mature Scots pine can vary from grey to reddish-brown and forms layered plates or flakes up to 5 cm. thick, with deep fissures in between. As the largest and longest-lived tree in the Caledonian Forest, the Scots pine is a keystone species in the ecosystem, forming the 'backbone' on which many other species depend. Plant a Scots pine tree.
Scots pine. Learn more about this article. Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) is a species of pine that is native to Europe and Asia, ranging from western Europe to eastern Siberia, south to the Caucasus Mountains and Anatolia, and north to well inside the Arctic Circle in Scandinavia. The Scots pine is the only pine species native to Northern Europe. These pines can live for centuries. In 2006, one of the oldest known Scots pines (estimated age between 355 and 405 years) fell to the ground in the town of Wolfheze (Province of Gelderland).
The Scots Pine – Tree of the year 2007. The Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) also known as the common pine or red fir is one of the most important tree species in Europe both economically and ecologically. The Scots pine is a much sought after tree from an economic point of view. They make up around 24% of forest cover in Germany, which corresponds to an area of about 2.5 million hectares (BMVEL, 2004), making it the second most common tree after the Norwegian spruce.
Scotch pine trees (Pinus sylvestris) are native to Europe and parts of Asia. Also called the Scots pine, these trees are commonly grown as Christmas trees. They are desirable for their cold hardiness and adaptability to environmental conditions. However, they are susceptible to a number of insect pests and diseases.
A pine tree (Pinus sylvestris) having twisted needles arranged in fascicles of two and valued for timber and as an ornamental. It is native to Eurasia and is widely planted in North America. Also called Scotch pine. Scots pine. n. 1. (Plants) a coniferous tree, Pinus sylvestris, of Europe and W and N Asia, having blue-green needle-like leaves and brown cones with a small prickle on each scale: a valuable timber tree. 2. (Forestry) the wood of this tree.