For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Electronics Engineer IV in the United States is $106,437, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Electronics Engineer IV in the United States are expected to make less than $106,437. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Electronics Engineer IV that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Electronics Engineer IV are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.
Electronics Engineer IV Job Description The following is a full job description for Electronics Engineer IV. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Electronics Engineer IV along with statistics. Designs, develops, and tests electronic systems, components, or circuits for use within equipment or machinery. May use computer-assisted engineering and design software and equipment to perform assignments. Applies principles and techniques of electrical engineering to accomplish goals. Requires a bachelor's degree in engineering and 6-8 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedure
The following is a full job description for Electronics Engineer IV. Designs, develops, and tests electronic systems, components, or circuits for use within equipment or machinery. May use computer-assisted engineering and design software and equipment to perform assignments. Applies principles and techniques of electrical engineering to accomplish goals. Requires a bachelor's degree in engineering and 6-8 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures
Pay by Experience Level for Electronics Technician. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For Electronics Technicians, experience does not seem to be a major factor in determining pay. The average worker who claims fewer than five years of experience earns around $36K. In contrast, however, individuals who report five to 10 years in this occupation see a much larger median of $44K. Electronics Technicians see a median salary of $49K after reaching one to two decades on the job. The average Construction Project Manager brings home $70K per year. Electrical Engineers or Engineering Technicians are common next-step roles for Electronics Technicians moving up in their careers; annual pay for Electrical Engineers is $23K higher on average, and it's $2K higher for Engineering Technicians.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Electronics Engineer IV may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Electronics Engineer IV that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Electronics Engineer IV are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.
People in this role can earn an average of $19.38 per hour nationwide. With some bonuses approaching $3K and certain profit sharing proceeds approaching $6K, overall incomes of Electronics Technicians spread between $29K and $67K depending on individual performance. The average Construction Project Manager brings home $70K per year. Electrical Engineers or Engineering Technicians are common next-step roles for Electronics Technicians moving up in their careers; annual pay for Electrical Engineers is $23K higher on average, and it's $2K higher for Engineering Technicians.
$0.00 - $50,684. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. Popular Skills for Electrical Engineer. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay.
An Electrical Engineer earns an average salary of $70,675 per year. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. Experience has a moderate effect on pay for this job. $52,539 - $102,561. Popular Skills for Electrical Engineer. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay.