In California, for example, there are two plates-the Pacific Plate (which extends from western California to Japan, including much of the Pacific Ocean floor) and the North American Plate (which is most of the North American continent and parts of the Atlantic Ocean). 
Climate zones of the Contiguous United States. The climate of the United States varies due to differences in latitude, and a range of geographic features, including mountains and deserts. West of the 100th meridian, much of the US is semi-arid to arid, even desert in the far southwestern US. Lake-effect snows add to precipitation potential downwind of the Great Lakes, as well as Great Salt Lake and the Finger Lakes during the cold season. The average snow to liquid ratio across the contiguous United States is 13:1, meaning 13 inches (330 mm) of snow melts down to 1 inch (25 mm) of water.
The Great Lakes are a chain of five large, freshwater lakes that are located in central North America, astride the border of Canada and the United States. The Great Lakes include Lake Erie, Lake Huron, Lake Michigan, Lake Ontario, and Lake Superior and together form the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth. They are contained within the Great Lakes watershed, a region whose waters discharge into the Saint Lawrence River and, ultimately, the Atlantic Ocean
Great Lakes Five lakes in central North America, between Canada and the USA; the world's largest expanse of freshwater. They are (from w to e): Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario. Carved by ancient glaciers, these lakes contain approximately 20 percent of the world's surface fresh-water supply and 95 percent of the surface fresh water in the United States. The Great Lakes waterbody is so large that its natural features can be seen from the Moon.
It is the 16th in a series of monographs on the geopolitics of countries influential in world affairs. Click here for part two. Like nearly all of the peoples of North and South America, most Americans are not originally from the territory that became the United States. They are a diverse collection of peoples primarily from a dozen different Western European states, mixed in with smaller groups from a hundred more.
Prairie Parkland (Temperate). These Sections are located in the north-central conterminous States, including parts of Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, and North and South Dakota. The area of these Section is about 218,200 mi2 (565,100 km2). There are scattered lacustrine lowlands and outwash channels as well. Elevation ranges from 750 to 2,000 ft (225 to 600 m). Local relief is generally 20 to 100 ft (6 to 30 m); it is higher in a few localized areas, notably the edge of the Coteau des Prairies.
There are more than 250 species of fishes found in the Great Lakes including Atlantic salmon, bluegill, brook trout, Chinnok salmon, Coho salmon, freshwater drum, lake sturgeon, lake trout, lake whitefish, northern pike, rock bass, walleye, white perch, yellow perch, and many others. The Great Lakes include Lake Erie, Lake Huron, Lake Michigan, Lake Ontario, and Lake Superior and together form the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth.
The Great Lakes cover a total surface area of 95,000 square miles and hold about 5,500 cubic miles of water (approximately 20 percent of all the world's fresh water and more than 80 percent of the fresh water of North America). The Great Lakes include Lake Erie, Lake Huron, Lake Michigan, Lake Ontario, and Lake Superior and together form the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth.
The Gulf of Alaska is the origination area of many storms that enter the United States. Such North Pacific lows enter the US through the Pacific Northwest, then move eastward across the northern Rocky Mountains, northern Great Plains, upper Midwest, Great Lakes and New England states. Lake-effect snows add to precipitation potential downwind of the Great Lakes, as well as Great Salt Lake and the Finger Lakes during the cold season. The average snow to liquid ratio across the contiguous United States is 13:1, meaning 13 inches (330 mm) of snow melts down to 1 inch (25 mm) of water.
It is located in the caldera of Mount Mazama. It is the deepest lake in the United States with a depth of 594 m (1,949 ft). Crater Lake is fed solely by falling rain and snow, with no inflow or outflow at the surface, and hence is one of the clearest lakes in the world. The highest volcano in the world, 6,893-m (22,615-ft) Ojos del Salado in Chile, has a permanent crater lake about 100 m (330 ft) in diameter at an elevation of 6,390 m (20,965 ft) on its eastern side. This is most likely the highest lake of any kind