All of these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plants that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils) and cocoa butter. For people who need to lower their cholesterol, the American Heart Association recommends reducing saturated fat to no more than 5 to 6 percent of total daily calories. Trans fats raise your bad (LDL) cholesterol levels and lower your good (HDL) cholesterol levels. These changes are associated with increased risk of heart disease. Since 2006, the FDA has required trans fat content to be listed on the Nutrition Facts panel of packaged foods.
For example: shortening that contains vegetable oil or partially hydrogenated vegetable oil must be listed in the list of ingredients of a food as vegetable oil shortening (unless it contains one of those fats and oils that must be mentioned by name, coconut oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, cocoa butter, peanut oil). 
1 Imitation or artificially flavored extracts generally are safe. 2  The following are not nuts: nutmeg, water chestnuts and butternut squash. 3  Argan oil is derived from the nut of the argan tree and has rarely been reported to cause allergic reactions. 4  While not common as a food source in the US, it is used in Morocco. 1 If you are allergic to tree nuts, talk to your allergist before adding coconut to your diet. 1. 2  Tree nut oils may contain nut protein and should be avoided. 3  Tree nut oils are sometimes used in lotions, hair care products and soaps.
1 The following are not nuts: nutmeg, water chestnuts and butternut squash. 2  Argan oil is derived from the nut of the argan tree and has rarely been reported to cause allergic reactions. 3  While not common as a food source in the US, it is used in Morocco. 1 If you are allergic to tree nuts, talk to your allergist before adding coconut to your diet. 1. 2  Tree nut oils may contain nut protein and should be avoided. 3  Tree nut oils are sometimes used in lotions, hair care products and soaps.
Coconut oil, or copra oil, is an edible oil extracted from the kernel or meat of mature coconuts harvested from the coconut palm (Cocos nucifera). RBD coconut oil can be processed further into partially or fully hydrogenated oil to increase its melting point. Since virgin and RBD coconut oils melt at 24 째C (76 째F), foods containing coconut oil tend to melt in warm climates. A higher melting point is desirable in these warm climates, so the oil is hydrogenated
It contains coconut. Foods that contain coconut are EVERYWHERE, even in places you wouldn't think. My worst coconut allergy is to movie theater popcorn (many still put coconut oil in the butter, even when they say its got real butter in it). These items also contain coconut:
Virgin coconut oil (VCO) can be produced from fresh coconut milk, meat, or residue. Producing it from the fresh meat involves removing the shell and washing, then either wet-milling or drying the residue, and using a screw press to extract the oil. RBD coconut oil can be processed further into partially or fully hydrogenated oil to increase its melting point. Since virgin and RBD coconut oils melt at 24 째C (76 째F), foods containing coconut oil tend to melt in warm climates. A higher melting point is desirable in these warm climates, so the oil is hydrogenated
Vegetable glycerin, or glycerol, is a clear, odorless liquid produced from plant oils, typically palm oil, soy, or coconut oil. Palm and coconut oils are natural triglyceride mixtures; each triglyceride is composed of three fatty acids esterified with glycerin. 
Tree Nut Allergies. Tree nut allergy is one of the most common food allergies in children and adults. Tree nuts can cause a severe, potentially fatal, allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). 1 If you are allergic to tree nuts, talk to your allergist before adding coconut to your diet. 1. 2  Tree nut oils may contain nut protein and should be avoided. 3  Tree nut oils are sometimes used in lotions, hair care products and soaps.