İbrahim Tatlıses (born İbrahim Tatlı) is a Turkish pop-folk singer and actor of Kurdish origin who sings in Turkish. He was born in the city of Şanlıurfa and is a folk singer and former actor. Tatlıses has recorded 42 albums, including notable albums such as Ayağında Kundura and Selam Olsun. In the 1980s the Turkish government had banned the use of Kurdish; at a concert in Sweden in December 1986, he had sung two folk songs in Kurdish and was thus prosecuted for separatist propaganda, but found not guilty in 1987.
On 14 March 2011, he was attacked and seriously wounded in the head. At 00:30 local time, he and his spokeswoman Buket Çakıcı çakıcı were shot at by unknown assailants after leaving the offices of the Private turkish Channel BEYAZ tv following his weekly television. show In the 1980s the Turkish government had banned the use of Kurdish; at a concert in Sweden in December 1986, he had sung two folk songs in Kurdish and was thus prosecuted for separatist propaganda, but found not guilty in 1987.
Not only was Suleiman a distinguished poet and goldsmith; he also became a great patron of culture, overseeing the Golden age of the Ottoman Empire in its artistic, literary and architectural development. Pargalı Ibrahim Pasha was the boyhood friend of Suleiman. Ibrahim was originally a Christian from Parga, (Epirus), and when he was young was educated at the Palace School under the devshirme system. Suleiman made him the royal falconer, then promoted him to first officer of the Royal Bedchamber.
Cenk Uygur explains that Turkish actor and singer Ibrahim Tatlises has been shot in the head and that he is currently in critical condition. 1  News & Politics. Cenk Uygur explains that Turkish actor and singer Ibrahim Tatlises has been shot in the head and that he is currently in critical condition. Category. License.
While Sultan Suleiman was known as the Magnificent in the West, he was always Kanuni Suleiman or The Lawgiver (قانونی) to his own Ottoman subjects. As the historian Lord Kinross notes, Not only was he a great military campaigner, a man of the sword, as his father and great-grandfather had been before him. Pargalı Ibrahim Pasha was the boyhood friend of Suleiman. Ibrahim was originally a Christian from Parga, (Epirus), and when he was young was educated at the Palace School under the devshirme system. Suleiman made him the royal falconer, then promoted him to first officer of the Royal Bedchamber.
Actor. Ibrahim Celikkol is an actor, known for Fetih 1453 (2012), Sadece Sen (2014) and Reaksiyon (2014). See full bio ».
Suleiman's previous heir apparent, Mustafa, had been strangled to death 13 years prior at the sultan's order. His other son Bayezid had been killed by his support and Selim's order in 1561 with four of his sons. Pargalı Ibrahim Pasha was the boyhood friend of Suleiman. Ibrahim was originally a Christian from Parga, (Epirus), and when he was young was educated at the Palace School under the devshirme system. Suleiman made him the royal falconer, then promoted him to first officer of the Royal Bedchamber.
At the age of seven, Suleiman was sent to study science, history, literature, theology, and military tactics in the schools of the Topkapı Palace in Constantinople (modern Istanbul). As a young man, he befriended Pargalı Ibrahim, a slave who later became one of his most trusted advisers. Pargalı Ibrahim Pasha was the boyhood friend of Suleiman. Ibrahim was originally a Christian from Parga, (Epirus), and when he was young was educated at the Palace School under the devshirme system. Suleiman made him the royal falconer, then promoted him to first officer of the Royal Bedchamber.