The Most Dangerous Volcanoes in the U.S. The most dangerous volcanoes in the U.S. are all composite volcanoes along the American Ring of Fire on the U.S. West Coast and Alaska, except for the two shield volcanoes on the Big Island of Hawaii. Mauna Loa and Kilauea are ranked #8 and #1 respectively. Some of the world’s largest volcanoes are shield volcanoes, including two of the world’s most active volcanoes: Mauna Loa and Kilauea Volcanoes on the Big Island of Hawaii. (Photo bellow by Priit Vesilind, National Geographic).
Here are the seven most dangerous volcanic areas in the U.S., according to the USGS Volcano Hazards Program's Volcano Alerts watch list: 1. Kilauea Volcano. A currently erupting volcano, Kilauea means spewing or much spreading in Hawaiian and experienced frequent volcanic activity during the 19th century. 2. Pagan Volcano. One of the two volcanoes that make up Pagan Island in the western Pacific, Mount Pagan is possibly the most dangerous volcano in the U.S. commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands because of its history of large eruptions.
Its two most active volcanoes -- Mauna Loa and Kilauea -- erupt lava frequently enough to pose a serious hazard to property on many parts of the island. About 40 percent of Mauna Loa has been covered by lava in the past 1,000 years and over 90 percent of Kilauea's surface is covered by lava less than 1,100 years old. Lava entering sea can be dangerous. Ever since lava first erupted above sea level over 500,000 years ago to begin building the Island of Hawai`i, countless eruptions from its five volcanoes have built the Big Island to a towering height of more than 4,000 m (13,000 ft).
10. Mauna Loa, Hawaii. Mauna Loa, Hawaii (Yerphonebox/Flickr). This volcano in Hawaii has been active for 700,000 years or more. Thankfully many of the eruptions are slow, but occasionally the lava flows from the volcano are fast and pose a risk to nearby towns and villages. There is also a continuing potential for dangerous earthquakes. 9
The type of eruptions in Hawai'i are known as hawaiian volcanism and are far less dangerous than the eruptions produced by Mount St. Helens. It is important to know what type of an eruption a volcano is most likely to produce so that the types of hazards produced by such an eruption can be identified. 
A recent PBS documentary identified Kilauea, on the island of Hawaii, as “The Most Dangerous Volcano in the World.” A curious choice, in my opinion, for any rating of a volcano's danger must take into account both the intrinsic hazard and the number of lives at risk. Eruptions of Kilauea are certainly spectacular. 
One of the five volcanoes that form the Island of Hawaii, Kilauea is believed to be the home of Hawaii's mythical goddess of volcanoes and fire, Pele. Hawaiian tribal lore tells that Kilauea's eruptions are Pele's way of giving a gift. 2. Pagan Volcano. One of the two volcanoes that make up Pagan Island in the western Pacific, Mount Pagan is possibly the most dangerous volcano in the U.S. commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands because of its history of large eruptions.
People on the Island of Hawai`i face many hazards that come with living on or near active volcanoes. These include lava flows, explosive eruptions, volcanic smog, damaging earthquakes, and tsunamis (giant seawaves). 
Hawaiʻi Volcanoes National Park, established in 1916, is a United States National Park located in the U.S. State of Hawaii on the island of Hawaii. It encompasses two active volcanoes: Kīlauea, one of the world's most active volcanoes, and Mauna Loa, the world's most massive subaerial volcano. The park gives scientists insight into the birth of the Hawaiian Islands and ongoing studies into the processes of vulcanism.