2 Lay the chicken pieces skin side down on the hottest side of the grill in order to sear the skin side well. Grill for 5-10 minutes, depending on how hot the grill is (you do not want the chicken to burn). Once you have a good sear on one side, move the chicken pieces to the cooler side of the grill. Cover the grill again and allow to cook for another 15-20 minutes. Repeat, turning the chicken pieces over, basting them with sauce, covering, and cooking for another 10-30 minutes. NOTE that timing will depend on your grill set-up, the size of your chicken pieces, and how cold your chicken pieces are to start with!
Steak should be 1/2 - 1 thick. Grill for 8 - 14 minutes for medium rare, 12 - 18 minutes for medium, turning once. BONE-IN STEAK Marinate if desired. Steak should be 1/2 - 1 thick. Grill for 7 - 14 minutes for medium rare, 11 - 18 minutes for medium, turning once. CHICKEN BREASTS Boneless products cook more evenly. Chicken breasts can be cooked as is, or pounded thin for quicker cooking time. Grill until thoroughly done and juices run clear, about 8 - 12 minutes, turning once. FISH FILLETS Cook until fillets flake easily when tested with a fork. Grill for 4 - 6 minutes per 1/2 of thickness, turning once. FISH STEAKS Tuna, salmon, halibut, swordfish steaks should be 1/2 - 1 thick.
Preheat the gas grill to high for at least 10 to 15 minutes. Like other thin cuts of meat, boneless, skinless chicken breasts benefit from quick grilling at high heat. How to Grill a Boneless Chicken Breast on a Gas Grill. How to Grill a Boneless Chicken Breast on a Gas Grill Photo Credit Diane Shear/Demand Media. In 2009, Americans consumed almost 125 pounds of chicken per capita, and most of that chicken came in the form of boneless, skinless chicken breasts.
1 Place cover on the grill and let pieces cook for 4 or 5 minutes. 2  After the dark meat has cooked for 4 or 5 minutes, add the white pieces to the grate, skin side down. 3  The wing pieces should be kept to the outer edges of the grill where there will be less heat. 4  Do not overcrowd the pieces. 1 Place the pieces skin side down. 2  Place cover on the grill and let pieces cook for 4 or 5 minutes. 3  After the dark meat has cooked for 4 or 5 minutes, add the white pieces to the grate, skin side down. 4
For a charcoal grill, place poultry on grill rack, bone side up, directly over medium coals. Grill, uncovered, for the time given or until the proper temperature is reached and meat is no longer pink, turning once halfway through grilling. For a gas grill, preheat grill. Reduce heat to medium. Place poultry on grill rack, bone side down, over heat. Cover and grill for the time given. Test for doneness using a meat thermometer (use an instant-read thermometer to test small portions). Thermometer should register 180 degrees F, except in breast meat when thermometer should register 170 degrees F.
When the grill hits at least 450 degrees, place the chicken on the middle of the grill. Close the lid. I don’t let the grill go too much over 450 degrees. 6. Cook 6 minutes and flip. Flipping the chicken more than once is a good way for it to taste like sand. It dries out the chicken. 7. 
Place the chicken breasts on the grill with at least 1/2 inch of space between them. Close the lid and cook the chicken for 4 to 5 minutes. Raise the lid and turn the chicken breasts. Cook an additional 4 to 5 minutes. When done, the chicken should feel firm. How to Grill a Boneless Chicken Breast on a Gas Grill. How to Grill a Boneless Chicken Breast on a Gas Grill Photo Credit Diane Shear/Demand Media. In 2009, Americans consumed almost 125 pounds of chicken per capita, and most of that chicken came in the form of boneless, skinless