+ More. Most people who take statins suffer no side effects from the cholesterol-lowering drugs. A small but significant number, however, develop mild to crushing muscle pain. In rare cases, the drugs can lead to permanent muscle damage, kidney problems, and death. 
Muscle effects. Statins can occasionally cause muscle inflammation (swelling) and damage. Speak to your doctor if you experience muscle pain, tenderness or weakness that cannot be explained (for example, pain that is not due to physical work).
And approximately 0.1% of statin users develop Rhabdomyolysis, which is a life threatening condition caused by toxicity due to massive muscle cell death (this starts with the experience of muscle pain, fatigue, and weakness, and progresses). Muscle pain side effects of Statin drugs generally get lumped together. Mypopathy, myalgia, ache, pain, fatigue, weakness all get grouped together. Basically, if you take Statins muscle pain is a likely outcome. As I said, experts in the field say 25% of statin users have statin drug side effects.
Statins, a popular set of drugs used to lower cholesterol, can result in muscle weakness and pain, and even debilitating and life-threatening muscle damage. A new study offers the first evidence that a gene known as atrogin-1 plays a key role in statin-related muscle toxicity. 
Treating Statin Muscle Pain. The reason statins cause muscle pain is not known. A lot of research and studies have been conducted. The Journal of the American Physical Therapy Association published a study that highlights statins and muscle pain and attempts to correlate them. This disease can cause painful, life-threatening muscle damage. In addition to severe muscle pain, it can lead to liver damage, kidney failure, and, in rare cases, death. Rhabdomyolosis sounds scary, but the average statin user does not have to worry about developing this disorder.
Muscle pain and damage The most common statin side effect is muscle pain. You may feel this pain as a soreness, tiredness or weakness in your muscles. The pain can be a mild discomfort, or it can be severe enough to make your daily activities difficult. Very rarely, statins can cause life-threatening muscle damage called rhabdomyolysis (rab-doe-mi-OL-ih-sis). Rhabdomyolysis can cause severe muscle pain, liver damage, kidney failure and death. Rhabdomyolysis can occur when you take statins in combination with certain drugs or if you take a high dose of statins
The development of the condition rhabdomyolysis, or the breakdown of muscle tissue, is rare, but it’s another possible side effect. This disease can cause painful, life-threatening muscle damage. In addition to severe muscle pain, it can lead to liver damage, kidney failure, and, in rare cases, death. Rhabdomyolosis sounds scary, but the average statin user does not have to worry about developing this disorder.
Unfortunately, some people may experience muscle pain or weakness while taking statins. The pain may be minor such as soreness or stiffness. However, muscle pain, particularly if severe and accompanied by dark-colored urine, may be an indication of a more serious, life-threatening problem called rhabdomyolysis. 
Biopsies showed that 25 of the 44 with myopathy had muscle damage. Statins drugs, which are medications widely used to lower cholesterol, may cause structural damage to the muscles of people experiencing muscle aches and weakness. Muscle pain and weakness is actually the most common side effect of statin drugs, and is thought to occur because statins activate the gene atrogin-1 gene, which plays a key role in muscle atrophy.