For other places with the same name, see Portland (disambiguation). Portland, The City of Roses, is the largest city in Oregon and the third largest city in the Pacific Northwest after Seattle and Vancouver, British Columbia. From the Oregon Coast Highway and other points along the Pacific coast to the west, the easiest approach is U.S. 26. It cuts east towards Portland between Cannon Beach and Seaside. As with all of Oregon, there are no self-serve gas stations in Portland; an attendant will do the pumping for you.
As in the rest of Oregon, there is no sales tax in Portland; the price you see on the tag is the price you pay. Portland is, by far, the largest metro area in the U.S. without a sales tax. (This does not apply to Vancouver, which is part of the metro area, but is in Washington State. From the Oregon Coast Highway and other points along the Pacific coast to the west, the easiest approach is U.S. 26. It cuts east towards Portland between Cannon Beach and Seaside. As with all of Oregon, there are no self-serve gas stations in Portland; an attendant will do the pumping for you.
1 The Cascades runs two trains per day between Portland and Eugene via Oregon City, Salem & Albany to the south and four trains daily between Portland and Seattle via Vancouver, WA; Kelso, Centralia, Lacey/Olympia, Tacoma, & Tukwila to the north, with one of those going further north to Vancouver, BC. From the Oregon Coast Highway and other points along the Pacific coast to the west, the easiest approach is U.S. 26. It cuts east towards Portland between Cannon Beach and Seaside. As with all of Oregon, there are no self-serve gas stations in Portland; an attendant will do the pumping for you.
Answers. Best Answer: I would recommend the Tri Cities in Washington. It's made up of the cities of Kennewick, Richland and Pasco. Kennewick is the area with the most amenities. It's about halfway between the two cities and unlike a lot of towns between Portland and Spokane, its pretty mid-sized and has a lot of stuff to do and see and has a mall for shopping. It's also very safe and has a lot of hotels and motels and it will probably be easy to find a dog friendly establishment. Source(s): 
Oregon Halfway Houses. Oregon Halfway Houses. We provide listings of halfway houses and sober living facilites in Oregon. Oftentimes there are close distinctions between the two. Some facilities do not want to be called halfway houses and others do not want to be called Sober Living Facilites. Our goal is to help those that need help.
Portland is an excellent city for cycling, with a network of streets designed to be predominantly used by bicyclists. These streets, such as SE Ankeny, SE Salmon, SE Lincoln, and SE Clinton, are usually spaced about halfway between the main car thoroughfares in the grid of East Portland. From the Oregon Coast Highway and other points along the Pacific coast to the west, the easiest approach is U.S. 26. It cuts east towards Portland between Cannon Beach and Seaside. As with all of Oregon, there are no self-serve gas stations in Portland; an attendant will do the pumping for you.
Portland is located 70 miles east of the Pacific Ocean at the northern end of Oregon 's most populated region, the Willamette Valley. Downtown Portland straddles the banks of the Willamette River which flows north through the city center and consequently separates the east and west neighborhoods of the city. Portland is one of only four cities in the U.S. with extinct volcanoes within its boundaries (along with Pilot Butte in Bend, Oregon, Jackson Volcano in Jackson, Mississippi, and Diamond Head in Honolulu, Hawaii). Mount Tabor Park is known for its scenic views and historic reservoirs.
Halfway is a small town in Baker County, Oregon, United States. This town took its name from the location of its post office, on the Alexander Stalker ranch, half way between Pine and Cornucopia. The population was 288 at the 2010 census. 
Centralia The City of Centralia, Washington, is located along the Interstate-5 corridor, halfway between Seattle, Washington, and Portland, Oregon, and is in the center of the Chehalis River Valley. The Centralia WWTP is an activated sludge plant that uses lime pasteurization to produce Class A biosolids. The City of Puyallup, Washington, is located in a valley between Seattle and Tacoma. Puyallup's treatment facility serves a population of 25,000 and produces 250 dry tons per year of biosolids. Puyallup is the home of the sixth largest fair in the United States, which has over 1.5 million visitors per year.