To enhance the function of phagocytosis. The antibody binds to the antigen (on the organism). The antibody also binds to the phagocyte thus facilitating the coming together of … the antibody and phagocyte and phagocytosis can then proceed. 1 person found this useful. Antibodies have a number of functions, they can directly  kill the invader, or they can recruit cell to the infection.   Different antibodies work on different substances; this is why you  need immunizations, so your body knows which antibodies to make for  those diseases.
The antibody binds to specific antigens. This signals the other cells of the immune system to get rid of the invading microbes. The strength of binding between the antibody and an antigen at a single binding site is known as the antibody’s affinity for the antigen. Immunoglobulins are basically proteins that function as antibodies. The terms antibody and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably. Immunoglobulins are found in blood and other tissues and fluids. They are made by the plasma cells that are derived from the B cells of the immune system.
Antibodies Defined. Antibodies are proteins that are produced by the immune system to help stop harm from occurring. They are also called immunoglobulins. When an intruder, such as a virus, bacteria, or other chemical, enters the body, the immune system springs into action. Antibodies are Y-shaped proteins that latch onto antigens, invaders looking to cause harm or infection to the body. The antibodies work with the immune system to destroy these antigens. For every different kind of antigen, there is a different type of antibody.
Answer   An antibody is what your body produces to fight of disease and infection. When a person has an autoimmune disease, the body's antibodies are attacking hea … lthy and normal cells. 3 people found this useful. Antibodies have a number of functions, they can directly  kill the invader, or they can recruit cell to the infection.   Different antibodies work on different substances; this is why you  need immunizations, so your body knows which antibodies to make for  those diseases.
The two structural portions of the antibody, i.e. the variable (Fab) and the constant (Fc) fragments, impart distinct biological functions. These functions are outlined as follows: Fab-mediated functions: 1  Antigen recognition – One of the major functions of the Fab region is antigen recognition. 2  The immune system generates large number of antibodies that can recognize virtually all possible antigens present in pathogens and their products. 1
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. Though strictly speaking, an antibody is not the same as an immunoglobulin; B cells can produce two types of immunoglobulins-surface immunoglobulins, which are B cell receptors; and secreted immunoglobulins, which are antibodies. So antibodies are one of two classes of immunoglobulins
Confidence votes 108. An antibody is a protein that your body produces which binds to the surface of a foreign body, like a bacteria or virus, and prevents it from actively damaging your body. Antibodies, generally bind other proteins, and they will bind to specific portions of the proteins. Answer   An antibody is what your body produces to fight of disease and infection. When a person has an autoimmune disease, the body's antibodies are attacking hea … lthy and normal cells. 3 people found this useful.
Functions [edit]. Antibodies are major components of humoral immunity. IgG is the main type of antibody found in blood and extracellular fluid allowing it to control infection of body tissues. By binding many kinds of pathogens such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi, IgG protects the body from infection.