The RNA to which the information is transcribed is messenger RNA (mRNA). The process associated with RNA polymerase is to unwind the DNA and build a strand of mRNA by placing on the growing mRNA molecule the base complementary to that on the template strand of the DNA. 
RNA polymerase is the enzyme that assembles the individual nucleotides to create the RNA strand based on the DNA template. The RNA that is built here can actually be one of three different kinds. You may recall that the three different RNA types are mRNA, rRNA and tRNA. The type that we're concerned with here is mRNA. Here, initiation is the first phase of transcription, during which RNA polymerase attaches to the promoter and begins to build mRNA. The promoter for our keratin gene only exists on one strand of the DNA, which is how we know which strand is the antisense strand.
1 RNA synthesis is always in the 5' to 3' direction. 2  RNA polymerase can synthesize RNA  de novo ; in other words, it doesn't require a primer to synthesize RNA; it only needs a template. 3  This differs from DNA polymerase, which requires a primer for DNA synthesis in all cases. Two characteristics of RNA polymerase: 1 
Sense Strand and Antisense Strand. Transcription is the copying of genetic information from the form of DNA to the form of RNA. Remember that RNA is a single-stranded molecule; it doesn't have a complementary strand like DNA does. It's only half a ladder, or a single strand of nucleotides. Here, initiation is the first phase of transcription, during which RNA polymerase attaches to the promoter and begins to build mRNA. The promoter for our keratin gene only exists on one strand of the DNA, which is how we know which strand is the antisense strand.
Primase is an enzyme that synthesizes short RNA sequences called primers. These primers serve as a starting point for DNA synthesis. Since primase produces RNA molecules, the enzyme is a type of RNA polymerase. Primase functions by synthesizing short RNA sequences that are complementary to a single-stranded piece of DNA, which serves as its template.
In eukaryote cells, RNA polymerase III (also called Pol III) transcribes DNA to synthesize ribosomal 5S rRNA, tRNA and other small RNAs. In the process of transcription (by any polymerase) there are three main stages: 1  Initiation; requiring construction of the RNA polymerase complex on the gene's promoter. 2  Elongation; the synthesis of the RNA transcript. 3  Termination; the finishing of RNA transcription and disassembly of the RNA polymerase complex.