Although many people consider tomatoes to be vegetables, technically they are fruits. The best descriptor of tomatoes is that they are diverse, which describes their color, flavor, use and nutrients. Tomatoes can be red, orange, yellow, green or purple. One cup of grape tomatoes provides 20 milligrams of vitamin C, which make up 27 and 33 percent of the daily requirement for adult men and women, respectively. Grape tomatoes are low in calories, are sweet and are a perfect combination for healthy snacking.
Essential Vitamins. Tomatoes contain vitamin A, which is important for the health of your eyes and skin, as well as metabolic functions. Tomatoes also have a large amount of vitamin C, the lack of which will cause scurvy. Vitamin C is important for the healthy functioning of your immune system, as well as being an antioxidant. The tomato is a savory fruit that is usually a bright red color, and originates from South America. Tomatoes can be eaten fresh or cooked and used in many different kinds of meals. Tomatoes contain many nutrients with qualities that are beneficial to health. Antioxidants.
Tomatoes have good amounts of some basic necessary nutrients. One medium sized-tomato provides over a third of the recommended daily allowance of vitamin C, and nearly a third of the recommended daily allowance of vitamin A. Tomatoes are also a great source of fiber, carbohydrate, potassium and iron. 1 Tomatoes are heart-healthy: A tomato has 0 grams of cholesterol and contains extremely small amounts of fat. 2  Tomatoes are nutrient-rich: A tomato’s vitamin C content increases as the fruit ripens. 3  Vine-ripened tomatoes contain nearly twice the vitamin C and beta-carotene as their green-picked counterparts.
Tomatoes are also an excellent source vitamin C, biotin, molybdenum, and vitamin K. They are also a very good source of copper, potassium, manganese, dietary fiber, vitamin A (in the form of beta-carotene), vitamin B6, folate, niacin, vitamin E, and phosphorus. 1 That's because the lycopene in deep red tomatoes is mostly trans-lycopene, and the lycopene in orange/tangerine tomatoes is mostly tetra-cis-lycopene. 2  In a recent study, this tetra-cis form of lycopene turned out to be more efficiently absorbed by the study participants.
Lastly, tomatoes contain vitamin K. Vitamin K is helpful to bone health since they provide about 19 percent of what your body needs daily. What vitamin K does is stimulate the action of osteocalcin. Osteocalcin is what makes up most of the bone's protein that is not collagen related. 7 2. Tomatoes provide the body with lycopene, a valuable source of nutrition. Lycopene has shown that it prevents damage to the cells causing cancers of many types. These include colon cancer, prostate cancer prevention, and also breast cancers.
The Vitamins and Nutrients in the Simple Tomato. Let's talk tomatoes and vitamins. Tomatoes contain as much vitamin c as many citrus fruits, with a normal sized tomato providing up to 40 percent of the recommended daily intake of this critical important nutrient. Tomatoes also contain: 1  Vitamin A. 2  Potassium.