A seismic event generates body waves and surface waves. Both are of crucial importance for the analysis of a suspicious event. They provide essential information on the location, the strength and the nature of an event. Seismic technology. Seismology is the study of seismic waves, their propagation through the Earth, their sources and their effects. Seismic waves result not only from earthquakes but also from other natural and man-made events.
As the wave passes by a seismic station, that piece of ground vibrates and this vibration is recorded. Earthquakes produce two main types of waves-the P-wave (a compressional wave), and the S-wave (a shear wave). The S-wave is slower but larger than the P-wave and does most of the damage. 
Answers. Best Answer: A seismic station is a laboratory that has equipment that can detect, monitor and record earthquakes locally or anywhere in the world. It has different type of seismic instruments that can record earthquake waves traveling trough the interior of the earth and its surface. 
a station for recording oscillations of the earth’s surface caused by earthquakes and for the primary processing of the records obtained. Seismographic stations are subdivided into long-range and regional stations depending on the tasks they perform. 
P Waves. The first kind of body wave is the P wave or primary wave. This is the fastest kind of seismic wave, and, consequently, the first to 'arrive' at a seismic station. The P wave can move through solid rock and fluids, like water or the liquid layers of the earth. Seismic waves are the waves of energy caused by the sudden breaking of rock within the earth or an explosion. They are the energy that travels through the earth and is recorded on seismographs. Types of Seismic Waves. There are several different kinds of seismic waves, and they all move in different ways.
Global Seismographic Network. The Global Seismographic Network (GSN) is a 150+ station, globally distributed, state-of-the-art digital seismic network that provides free, realtime, open access data through the IRIS DMC. The map above shows the distribution of the current station network with respect to network operations. The Global Seismographic Network is a cooperative partnership between IRIS and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) , coordinated with the international community, to install and operate a global, multi-use scientific facility as a societal resource for Earth observations, monitoring, research, and education.
S Wave. An S (Secondary) wave, or shear wave, is a seismic body wave that shakes the ground back and forth perpendicular to the direction the wave is moving. It is one of two types of body waves. The other type is the P wave. On a seismogram, the earthquake origin time can be determined by the P wave arrival. P Wave. P (Primary) waves are a type of body wave. A body wave is a seismic wave that moves through the interior of the Earth, as opposed to surface waves that travel near the Earth's surface. P and S waves are body waves. Each type of wave shakes the ground in different ways
A seismic event generates two types of seismic waves: body waves and surface waves. The faster body waves travel through the interior of the Earth while the slower surface waves – as the name suggests – travel along its surface. Seismic technology. Seismology is the study of seismic waves, their propagation through the Earth, their sources and their effects. Seismic waves result not only from earthquakes but also from other natural and man-made events.
There are two types of body waves emanating from a seismic event, P-waves and S-waves. P-waves are primary or compressional waves that alternately compress and expand the ground in the direction of the wave’s propagation. These waves can move through any material. Seismic technology. Seismology is the study of seismic waves, their propagation through the Earth, their sources and their effects. Seismic waves result not only from earthquakes but also from other natural and man-made events.