Progressive Education. movement in American education. Confined to a period between the late 19th and mid-20th cent., the term progressive education is generally used to refer only to those educational programs that grew out of the American reform effort known as the progressive movement. Progressive Education. a bourgeois pedagogical concept whose adherents believe that the content, organization, and methods of instruction, especially in primary school, should be determined by the direct, spontaneous interests and needs of children rather than by the socioeconomic conditions and needs of society.
noun. ( 1 education) an educational system that allows flexibility in learning procedures, based on activities determined by the needs and capacities of the individual child, the aim of which is to integrate academic with social development. 
Progressive education is a pedagogical movement that began in the late nineteenth century; it has persisted in various forms to the present. It emphasized the education of students in terms of health, a command of fundamental processes, worthy home membership, vocation, citizenship, worthy use of leisure, and ethical character. They Emphasized life adjustment and reflected the social efficiency model of progressive education.
Progressivism. Progressivists believe that individuality, progress, and change are fundamental to one's education. Believing that people learn best from what they consider most relevant to their lives, progressivists center their curricula on the needs, experiences, interests, and abilities of students.
Progressivism is a broad philosophy based on the Idea of Progress, which asserts that advancement in science, technology, economic development, and social organization are vital to improve the human condition. 
Progressive education was a pluralistic phenomenon, embracing industrial training, agricultural education, and social education as well as the new techniques of instruction advanced by educational theorists. Progressive Education. a bourgeois pedagogical concept whose adherents believe that the content, organization, and methods of instruction, especially in primary school, should be determined by the direct, spontaneous interests and needs of children rather than by the socioeconomic conditions and needs of society.
Definition of PROGRESSIVISM. 1. : the principles, beliefs, or practices of progressives. 2. capitalized: the political and economic doctrines advocated by the Progressives. 3. : the theories of progressive education. — pro·gres·siv·ist \-vist\ noun or adjective. — pro·gres·siv·is·tic \-ˌgre-si-ˈvis-tik\ adjective. 
Definition: Progressive education is a reaction against the traditional style of teaching which teaches facts largely at the expense of understanding what is being taught. The progressive education philosophy embraces the idea that we should teach children how to think and that a test cannot measure whether or not a child is an educated person. The Calhoun School lays out the argument in Progressive Education
Not to be confused with Modern liberalism in the United States. Progressivism in the United States is a broadly based reform movement that reached its height early in the 20th century and is generally considered to be middle class and reformist in nature. Since progressivism was and continues to be 'in the eyes of the beholder,' progressive education encompasses very diverse and sometimes conflicting directions in educational policy. Such enduring legacies of the Progressive Era continue to interest historians.