Bake the thin-cut bacon for 12-17 minutes for thin-cut, or until desired doneness. I myself like my bacon very crisp, so I bake it 16-18 minutes. For thick bacon, bake for 10 minutes, then turn the bacon with tongs. Return the pan to the oven and bake for 12-17 minutes longer or until the bacon is browned. The bacon is done when the bubbles on it become smaller and it makes less noise. That's a great way to tell when any food is done frying, actually!
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F and line a large rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Arrange the bacon slices in one even layer on the parchment and bake until golden brown and crispy, 25 to 30 minutes. Transfer to paper towels to blot and drain briefly before serving. Cooking Directions. 
1 Do not wait for the oven to preheat. 2  Go ahead and place the pan in the oven. 3  Cook the bacon for 12-17 minutes. 4  Cooking time depends on the thickness of your bacon, and how long it takes for you oven to come to temperature. Start checking your bacon around 10 minutes to ensure your bacon doesn’t burn. (Nothing worse than burnt bacon!). 7. 3. Place the bacon slices in a single layer either directly on the foil or on a rack Make sure not to overlap slices. 4. Turn the oven on and set to 400 degrees. Do not wait for the oven to preheat.
Directions. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lay the bacon on a sheet pan and bake for 15 to 20 minutes until the bacon is really crispy. Dry on paper towels and serve. 2003 Ina Garten, All Rights Reserved.
1 Come back 17 to 20 minutes later. 2  As soon as the bacon is golden brown, but not excessively crisp, it's done. 3  The exact time will depend on the thickness of the bacon slices, and also on how quickly your oven reaches the target temperature. 1 The exact time will depend on the thickness of the bacon slices, and also on how quickly your oven reaches the target temperature. 2  Remove the pan from the oven. 3  Transfer the bacon to a second sheet pan (or a plate or dish) lined with paper towels to absorb any excess fat.
Starting with a cold oven ensures that the bacon will cook slowly, like it needs to. 1  Arrange the bacon slices on a sheet pan and place the pan on the center rack of a cold oven. 2  Come back 17 to 20 minutes later. 3  Remove the pan from the oven. 1 The exact time will depend on the thickness of the bacon slices, and also on how quickly your oven reaches the target temperature. 2  Remove the pan from the oven. 3  Transfer the bacon to a second sheet pan (or a plate or dish) lined with paper towels to absorb any excess fat.
If necessary, use a second baking sheet. Bake the bacon: Place the baking sheet of bacon in the oven and bake until the bacon is deep golden-brown and crispy, 15 to 20 minutes. Exact baking time will depend on the thickness of the bacon and how crispy you like it. Begin checking around 12 minutes to monitor how quickly the bacon is cooking. Instructions. 1  Preheat the oven to 400°F: Turn on the oven and preheat to 400°F. Place a rack in the lower third of the oven. 2  If you're cooking multiple sheets of bacon, position a second rack in the top third of the oven. 3  Arrange the bacon on a baking sheet: Line a baking sheet with foil (this makes clean-up easier).
1 Go ahead and place the pan in the oven. 2  Cook the bacon for 12-17 minutes. 3  Cooking time depends on the thickness of your bacon, and how long it takes for you oven to come to temperature. 4  Start checking your bacon around 10 minutes to ensure your bacon doesn’t burn. 3. Place the bacon slices in a single layer either directly on the foil or on a rack Make sure not to overlap slices. 4. Turn the oven on and set to 400 degrees. Do not wait for the oven to preheat.
1 First all you need to do is take the bacon and lay it down on any of the following, cookie sheet, wax paper, or aluminum foil. 2  We do this for an easy clean up but if you want just lay down on your baking pan. 3  Then sprinkle the bacon with black pepper. 4  Next turn on your oven to 400 degrees fahrenheit. 1 We do this for an easy clean up but if you want just lay down on your baking pan. 2  Then sprinkle the bacon with black pepper. 3  Next turn on your oven to 400 degrees fahrenheit. 4  Put your bacon in and wait about 15 min to check on it then as soon as the bacon is crispy brown or golden brown take it out and your done!