noun. 1 A point or line common to lines or surfaces that intersect: the intersection of a plane and a cone. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Through that point draw a horizontal line to the intersection with the hypotenuse. 1.1 A point at which two or more things intersect, especially a road junction: a red light at the intersection with Brompton Road. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Different models were explored to estimate the accident rate at road intersections.
Full Definition of INTERSECTION. 1. : the act or process of intersecting. 2. : a place or area where two or more things (as streets) intersect. 3. a: the set of elements common to two or more sets; especially: the set of points common to two geometric configurations b: the operation of finding the intersection of two or more sets. See intersection defined for English-language learners. Definition of INTERSECTION for Kids. 1. 2. : the place or point where two or more things (as streets) meet or cross each other. 3. : the set of mathematical elements common to two or more sets.
in·ter·sec·tion. n. 1. The act, process, or result of intersecting. 2. A place where things intersect, especially a place where two or more roads cross. 3. Mathematics. a. The point or locus of points where one line, surface, or solid crosses another. origin-the point of intersection of coordinate axes; where the values of the coordinates are all zero. set - (mathematics) an abstract collection of numbers or symbols; the set of prime numbers is infinite.
Try this Drag any orange dot at the points A,B,P or Q. The line segments intersect at point K. An intersection is a single point where two lines meet or cross each other. In the figure above we would say that point K is the intersection of line segments PQ and AB. Another way it may be said is that the line segment PQ intersects AB at point K. 
2. any place of intersection or the act or fact of intersecting. 3. Math. a. Also called product. the set of elements that two or more sets have in common. origin-the point of intersection of coordinate axes; where the values of the coordinates are all zero. set - (mathematics) an abstract collection of numbers or symbols; the set of prime numbers is infinite.
4. intersection-the set of elements common to two or more sets; the set of red hats is the intersection of the set of hats and the set of red things. Cartesian product, product. set-a group of things of the same kind that belong together and are so used; a set of books; a set of golf clubs; a set of teeth. origin-the point of intersection of coordinate axes; where the values of the coordinates are all zero. set - (mathematics) an abstract collection of numbers or symbols; the set of prime numbers is infinite.
The intersection of A, B, C, and D, for example, is A ∩ B ∩ C ∩ D = A ∩ (B ∩ (C ∩ D)). Intersection is an associative operation; thus, A ∩ (B ∩ C) = (A ∩ B) ∩ C. Inside a universe U one may define the complement A c of A to be the set of all elements of U not in A. 1 The intersection of the sets {1, 2, 3} and {2, 3, 4} is {2, 3}. 2  The number 9 is not in the intersection of the set of prime numbers {2, 3, 5, 7, 11, ...} and the set of odd numbers {1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, ...}.
To cross over (have some common point) The red and blue lines intersect. Search :: Index :: About :: Contact :: Contribute :: Cite This Page :: Privacy. 
Intersection of two sets: In mathematics, the intersection A ∩ B of two sets A and B is the set that contains all elements of A that also belong to B (or equivalently, all elements of B that also belong to A), but no other elements. 1 The intersection of the sets {1, 2, 3} and {2, 3, 4} is {2, 3}. 2  The number 9 is not in the intersection of the set of prime numbers {2, 3, 5, 7, 11, ...} and the set of odd numbers {1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, ...}.