German: variant spelling of Hardt 1 and 2. Jewish (Ashkenazic): ornamental name or a nickname from German and Yiddish hart ‘hard’. Irish: Anglicized form of Gaelic O hAirt ‘hairt descendant Of’, art a byname ‘meaning’, ‘bear’. Hero The english name became established In ireland in the 17th. century In some cases the surname may be of Irish origin, and is derived from the Gaelic O' hAirt, composed of the elements O', meaning male descendant of, and Art, a byname meaning hero.
Hart /hart/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced hart. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Hart is strong, brave; stag. Surname of an English saint (16th century). Poet Hart Crane; actor Hart Bochner. Hart is a rare first name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#196 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Hart for boys. Hart has not been recorded in the Top 1000 so fa
Origin of hart, Meaning of hart. Origin: The family of de Querton (Probably Norman) dates from 1292 in Cumbria, England. The name was anglicised to Wharton in 1310 by Gilbert de Querton who lived at Wharton Hall on the River Eden in Cumbria. Surnames: Wharton. hart Immigration to the US by Year You can find out when most of the hart families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Name History and Origin for hart Naming patterns can help you learn more about your family s cultural and ethnic background.
Origin of hart, Meaning of hart. Origin: Hartmann-A patronymic surname taken from the German first name Hartmann, menaing brave man.. From the Germanic element hard meaning brave and Hardy, combined with man.. hart Immigration to the US by Year You can find out when most of the hart families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Name History and Origin for hart Naming patterns can help you learn more about your family s cultural and ethnic background.
Top Places of Origin for hart You can find out where the majority of hart families were living before they immigrated to the U.S. You can learn where to focus your search for foreign records. hart Immigration to the US by Year You can find out when most of the hart families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Name History and Origin for hart Naming patterns can help you learn more about your family s cultural and ethnic background.
In England where the earliest of all surname recordings are to be found one Roger Hert appears in the Pipe Rolls of Norfolk in the year 1166, and Simon le Hert is noted in the tax rolls known as the 'Feet of Fines' for the county of Kent in 1194. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Aelfric Hort, which was dated circa 1060, in the Olde English Byname Register, Hampshire, during the reign of King Edward, known as The Confessor, 1040 - 1066. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.
Uncover the meaning and origin of your last name, then learn how to create and preserve your own family history for generations to come. Menu › Home | Obituaries | Newspapers. 1. English and North German: from a personal name or nickname meaning ‘stag’, Middle English hert, Middle Low German herte, hërte. harte 
Recorded in many spellings including Hart, Harte, Heart, Hart and Hartman (English), and Hart and Hartmann (German), de Herte (Flemish & Dutch), Hiorth and Hjorth (Swedish), this interesting surname was usually a nickname. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Aelfric Hort, which was dated circa 1060, in the Olde English Byname Register, Hampshire, during the reign of King Edward, known as The Confessor, 1040 - 1066. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.