Definition. Electrolytes are positively and negatively charged molecules called ions, that are found within the body's cells and extracellular fluids, including blood plasma. A test for electrolytes includes the measurement of sodium, potassium, chloride, and bicarbonate. These ions are measured to assess renal (kidney), endocrine (glandular), and acid-base function, and are components of both renal function and comprehensive metabolic biochemistry profiles.
The usual blood test which checks that the kidneys are working properly measures the level of urea, creatinine and certain dissolved salts. Urea is a waste product formed from the breakdown of proteins. Urea is usually passed out in the urine. A high blood level of urea ('uraemia') indicates that the kidneys may not be working properly, or that you have a low body water content (are dehydrated). Creatinine is a waste product made by the muscles. If the blood test is abnormal it cannot say what is causing the kidney problem. Therefore, if you have an abnormal result you may need further tests to find the cause of a kidney problem. For example: urine tests, other blood tests, scans, X-rays, kidney biopsy, etc.
The kidney is essential for the control of the body's fluid balance. The above tests are used to investigate urinary symptoms and kidney disorders. The urea and creatinine are waste products excreted by the kidney. Raised levels may indicate kidney damage or disease. 
Introduction. An electrolyte test can help determine whether there's an electrolyte imbalance in the body. Electrolytes are salts and minerals, such as sodium, potassium, chloride and bicarbonate, which are found in the blood. They can conduct electrical impulses in the body. The test is sometimes carried out during a routine physical examination, or it may be used as part of a more comprehensive set of tests
^ Back to top. Electrolyte levels are affected by how much is taken in through your diet, the amount of water in your body, and the quantity of electrolytes excreted by your kidneys. They are also affected by hormones, especially aldosterone, a hormone that retains sodium in the body but increases the loss of potassium. 
Electrolytes are minerals that are found in body tissues and blood in the form of dissolved salts. As electrically charged particles, electrolytes help move nutrients into and wastes out of the body's cells, maintain a healthy water balance, and help stabilise the body's acid/base (pH) level. Electrolytes are usually measured as part of a renal profile which measures the main electrolytes in the body, sodium (Na +), potassium (K +), together with creatinine and/or urea, and may occasionally include chloride (Cl -) and/or bicarbonate (HCO 3 -).
Urea and electrolytes (U&Es) are the most frequently requested biochemistry tests. They provide useful information about several aspects of health, such as the volume of blood and its pH. The most important aspect of U&Es is what they tell us about kidney functioning. 
UEC’s (Urea Electrolytes and Creatinine): This test is a measure of kidney function. You may observe elevated serum urea or creatinine levels with dehydration or impaired kidney functions. The electrolytes such as sodium, potassium, chloride and bicarbonate are various salts in the bloodstream. 
Urea and electrolytes are carried out routinely on serum or plasma samples. The test is useful in numerous situations and the following highlights some of the most common interpretative challenges. This may be due to either loss of sodium or overload of water or a combination of both. The following list contains the relatively common and important causes of hyponatraemia