The average lifespan of a budgie is generally 2-7 years. There are budgies that have lived to 13 and ever older, and there are budgies that die before their first birthday. There are many factors that can affect the lifespan on a budgie. 
i've owned budgies for 7 years, the female ran away and we bought another female for the male but he died 2 days after that (him and the female that ran away were together with me for 7 years) well i would like to know how long their life span is and how can i determine the age of a budgie, ive heard that if... 
In captivity, budgerigars live an average of 4 to 10 years, with some living 15-20 years. The maximum recorded lifespan is 26 years. Their life expectancy depends on genetics and health and is highly influenced by exercise and diet. Birds get hardening of the arteries and heart disease just like people. 
A budgie useally lives for 5 years but some can live up to 10 years...     10 years is the MAXIMUM a Budgie can live for       Hope This Answered you questio … n. 2 people found this useful. This can extend to 15 if the bird is well fed and kept in clean conditions. Life span depends on genetics and how well a bird is cared for during its lifetime. It honestly depends on the budgie's country of origin. Budgies in Australia, their country of origin, easily live between 10 and 15 years in captivity.
Budgie lifespan is more than 15 years, but in order to live for so long time, they need to be cared for. The budgie cage must be kept clean, neat and washed, and it needs to have several accessories and toys. They hate to be left alone, to be punished or hit, or to have unwashed cages or be kept in tight spaces. Budgerigar parakeets need an average of 10-12 hours of sleep in the dark in a quiet environment. If they sleep less, they become nervous. If a budgerigar parakeet has night fears, flying through the cage hysterical, then uncover the cage, turn the lights on, and talk to calm him/her down.
Best Answer: According to my vet, 5 years is the average age. Parakeets can live much longer lives than that, even up to 12 years. They can also live less than 5 years. I know one lady that had a parakeet that lived 10 years. That is the oldest living parakeet that I know. My oldest parakeet lived 7 1/2 years.
The average lifespan for a budgie is between 5 - 8 years. This can extend to 15 if the bird is well fed and kept in clean conditions. Life span depends on genetics and how wel … l a bird is cared for during its lifetime. It honestly depends on the budgie's country of origin. A budgie useally lives for 5 years but some can live up to 10 years... 10 years is the MAXIMUM a Budgie can live for Hope This Answered you question.
The average lifespan for a budgie is between 5 - 8 years. This can extend to 15 if the bird is well fed and kept in clean conditions. Life span depends on genetics and how well a bird is cared for during its lifetime. It honestly depends on the budgie's country of origin. Budgies in Australia, their country of origin, easily live between 10 and 15 years in captivity.
In captivity, budgerigars live an average of five to eight years, but life spans of 15–20 years have been reported. The life span depends on breed, lineage, and health, being highly influenced by exercise and diet. 