ADVERTISEMENT. Bush’s representatives did not return a request from The Hill to clarify whether Bush meant the federal government shouldn’t be raising the wage or setting a minimum wage altogether. Federal law sets the minimum wage at $7.25, but states have the leeway to raise that in their state. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush said Tuesday the federal government should not be involved in raising the minimum wage during a campaign stop in South Carolina. “We need to leave it to the private sector,” he said when asked whether raising the minimum wage is a good idea, according to video from the event on YouTube.
Warning flag #2 on Cruz. Minimum wage increases hurt small businesses and that was the question asked of him. He focuses on young people, “Hispanics and African Americans”. I think Cruz is pro-amnesty with his buddy Rubio, is just slowly informing the public of that feeling. What a bunch of bilious bunk. Warning flag #1 must’ve been a doozie.
Sen. Ted Cruz's (R-TX) father said that African Americans need to be educated about Democrats, adding that the average black does not know that the minimum wage is bad. Rafael Cruz, the junior senator from Texas's father, made the comments at the Western Williamson Republican Club's August meeting on Aug. 21. 
• Rand Paul, Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz were asked about raising the minimum wage at a Koch forum in January, and none supported raising it. It's also safe to say that the entire Democratic field — such as it is — will support raising the minimum wage. That's why Rick Santorum's position on the issue could be an important part of the 2016 GOP debate.
(CNSNews.com) – President Barack Obama’s proposal to raise the minimum wage to $9 an hour from the current $7.25 would harm the economy, some Republicans said Tuesday after the State of the Union address. If President Obama had had his way, the minimum wage would have been raised from 50 cents to $2 and they wouldn’t be able to hire my dad,” Cruz said.
Senators Rand Paul, Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio oppose the president's plan to raise the minimum wage to $10.10 from the $7.25 it's at now. But should the federal government set a minimum wage at all? One chart said $0.00 was the real Obama minimum wage because so many people would lose jobs under his plan. Another chart had the number $46.98, he said, which is the average hourly wage of an oil and gas worker in North Dakota.
“But what we need to do is create a growing economy and drive wages up -- not to $9 an hour, but $15, $18, $20 an hour. That’s the kind of thing we need to be looking at, and that comes only from economic growth, and an unwise minimum wage may even do damage.”. If President Obama had had his way, the minimum wage would have been raised from 50 cents to $2 and they wouldn’t be able to hire my dad,” Cruz said.
Texas has the highest number of minimum wage workers in the country. And a recent poll indicated 55 percent of Texas voters support increasing the minimum wage to $10 an hour. Texas voters get what Texas Republican Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz don’t: All Texans deserve to make a living wage. On April 30, US Senate Republicans blocked a bill that would have raised the federal minimum wage to $10.10 an hour. Even though a majority of senators support the bill—54 in total—Republicans used a procedural move called a filibuster to block the bill from coming up for a vote.
0. shares. TED CRUZ: So, for example, the last time we had this debate on the minimum wage when President Obama wanted to raise it, the Congressional Budget Office, nonpartisan CBO, said that doing so will cost up to one million jobs, predominantly young teenage African American and Hispanic kids who are working. Tuesday night saw something rare on PBS, a conservative voice. Senator Ted Cruz appeared on liberal Tavis Smiley's program and hit back at the host's pro-Democrat questions. Smiley demanded, Well, why can't we raise the minimum wage to a living wage? Why won't you fight for that?.