However, other genetic changes occur more frequently. Genetic alterations that occur in more than 1 percent of the population are called polymorphisms. They are common enough to be considered a normal variation in the DNA. Polymorphisms are responsible for many of the normal differences between people such as eye color, hair color, and blood type.
GENOME VARIATIONS. Genome variations are differences in the sequence of DNA from one person to the next. Just as you can look at two people and tell that they are different, you could, with the proper chemicals and laboratory equipment, look at the genomes of two people and tell that they are different, too. Genome variations include mutations and polymorphisms. Technically, a polymorphism (a term that comes from the Greek words poly, or many, and morphe, or form) is a DNA variation in which each possible sequence is present in at least 1 percent of people.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. Genetic alterations that occur in more than 1 percent of the population are called polymorphisms. They are common enough to be considered a normal variation in the DNA. Polymorphisms are responsible for many of the normal differences between people such as eye color, hair color, and blood type.
What are single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)? Single nucleotide polymorphisms, frequently called SNPs (pronounced “snips”), are the most common type of genetic variation among people. Each SNP represents a difference in a single DNA building block, called a nucleotide. 
The collection of all the genes and the various alternative alleles within a population is called a gene pool. Genetic Variation within a population is measured according to the number of different alleles of all genes and the frequency with which they appear. Recombination (Crossing Over). This is the exchange of genetic material between adjacent chromatids on the homologous chromosomes. This random exchange of DNA results in many new combinations of alleles on chromosomes, creating great potential for variation.
Gene Pool, Alleles and Variation in the Population. Genes have many different forms (alleles). This forms the basis of the study of population genetics. Populations are made up of members of the same species which interbreed. Recombination (Crossing Over). This is the exchange of genetic material between adjacent chromatids on the homologous chromosomes. This random exchange of DNA results in many new combinations of alleles on chromosomes, creating great potential for variation.
The combination of different alleles is an individual’s genotype. Natural selection acts on phenotype, not genotype. Genetic variation and evolution are studied in populations. Members of a population share a common group of genes, called a gene pool. Allele frequency is the number of times an allele occurs in a gene pool compared with the number of times other alleles for the same gene occur. In genetic terms, evolution is any change in the allele frequency in a population. Sources of Genetic Variation The three main sources of genetic variation are mutations, genetic recombination during sexual reproduction, and lateral gene transfer. A mutation is any change in a sequence of DNA.
Variation is high when there are many different alleles of all genes and when there are many different combinations of those alleles. However, genetic variation is constantly changing. Different alleles of a single gene can appear and disappear from time to time within a group. Recombination (Crossing Over). This is the exchange of genetic material between adjacent chromatids on the homologous chromosomes. This random exchange of DNA results in many new combinations of alleles on chromosomes, creating great potential for variation.
The researchers discovered that people with either of two of the variations of the COMT gene (called the Val/Val and Val/Met variations) donated twice as much money to the charity as people with the other variation (called Met/Met), regardless of their gender. The researchers were focusing on the three variations of a gene called the COMT gene, which influences how certain neurotransmitters are activated in the brain. Previous research has linked those particular neurotransmitters, including dopamine, to positive emotions and social behaviors like bonding.