The Arctic wolf (Canis lupus arctos), also known as the Melville Island wolf is a possible subspecies of gray wolf native to the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, from Melville Island to Ellesmere Island. As a result, the Arctic wolf is relatively unafraid of people, and can be coaxed to approach people in some areas. It has occasionally acted aggressively toward humans. Otto Sverdrup wrote that during the Fram expedition, a pair of wolves attacked one of his team-mates, who defended himself with a skiing pole.
Description. No other wolf in the world can offer the same coloring as the Arctic Wolf. It is very unique due to the location where it is found. While some species of wolves do have some white coloring, this one is almost completely white. They do offer some aspects of yellow, gray, and black in places though. The information about the evolution of the Arctic Wolf continues to be debated among the experts. It is believed by most they that evolved from other types of canines more than 50 million years ago. It is also believed that due to the Ice Age some wolves ended up in this very cold region.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Arctic wolves (Canis lupus arctos) are not their own individual species, but rather a gray wolf (Canis lupus) subspecies. They reside in the extreme northern portions of Canada -- think Ellesmere Island, to be specific -- and Greenland. Other common monikers for the subspecies are white wolf and polar wolf. They are not as sizable as the average gray wolf. Arctic wolves, in maturity, typically weigh between 99 and 154 pounds. They also generally grow to between 3 and 6 feet long, which takes their tails into consideration. As highly social creatures, they usually stay in packs, although some live all by their lonesome.
With the exception of humans, arctic wolves have very few predators. Grizzlies would be the only natural predator that I can think of and most of the time disputes between grizzlies and wolves are a result of wanting the same prey, not wanting to prey on each other. 
The Arctic wolf is a subspecies of the gray wolf (Canis lupus). Arctic wolves inhabit some of the most inhospitable terrain in the world where the air temperature rarely rises above -30 degrees C (-22 F) and the ground is permanently frozen. They are one of the few species of mammals who can tolerate these harsh conditions.
Predators and Threats. Humans, other wolves and polar bears are of great danger to the arctic wolf. Because this species of wolf is much smaller than its cousin the gray wolf, it is easy prey for a massive polar bear. One swipe from the polar bear’s paw can quickly become the demise of the wolf. The arctic wolf is a smaller breed of the gray wolf. This wolf has much shorter legs and ears and a very thick coat of fur. Its muzzle is also somewhat shorter than that of the gray wolf. Having these differences is what helps the arctic wolf withstand the below zero temperatures and frozen ground.
An arctic wolf doesn't necessarily have predators. They use that for hunting reasons. Their only real enemy/predator is either the human or the bear. The bears are as we all k … now, much bigger than a wolf, and although bears don't eat wolves, they can kill them in a fight. But if it is avoiding enemies (such as the human or bear) they use their white coat to hide in the snow.
Here are some of the most interesting Arctic wolf facts such as Arctic wolf habitat, diet, reproduction, and its behavior in the wild. The arctic wolf (Canis lupus arctos), also known as white wolf or polar wolf, is a subspecies of the gray wolf that belongs to the family of Canidae. Arctic wolves inhabit all along the Alaska, northern areas of Greenland, and Canadian Arctic. 