Antiplatelet drug is a generic term, describing agents which decrease platelet aggregation and inhibit thrombus formation. Antiplatelet drugs are most effective for arterial clots that are composed largely of platelets. Platelets are critical in haemostasis and the development of arterial thrombi.
Aspirin and nonaspirin nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit platelet cyclooxygenase, thereby blocking the formation of thromboxane A2. These drugs produce a systemic bleeding tendency by impairing thromboxane-dependent platelet aggregation and consequently prolonging the bleeding time.
3) Inhibition of prostaglandin metabolism, thereby reducing platelet thromboxane A2 levels Aspirin irreversibly inhibits cyclo-oxygenase-1 (COX-1), inhibiting platelet aggregation for 7-10 days. i. Conventional NSAIDs reversibly inhibit COX-1.
Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Platelet Aggregation Inhibition. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Platelet Aggregation Inhibition returned the following treatments.
1 Since glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors block the final common pathway for platelet aggregation (platelet aggregation is blocked regardless of the nature of the initial stimuli), glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors are the most potent antiplatelet agents.
Drugs that inhibit platelet adhesion and/or aggregation are used for prophylactic and/or long term anticlotting treatment. As with thrombolytic and anticoagulant drugs, their major side effect is BLEEDING. Antiplatelet drugs are often used in combination with other agents: ABCIXIMAB and EPTIFIBATIDE with HEPARIN or ASA, DIPYRIDAMOLE with either WARFARIN or ASA.
Thienopyridines, a class of oral antiplatelet agents, permanently inhibit P2RY12 signaling, which is sufficient to block platelet activation. F2R, TBXA2R and P2RY1 couple to the Gq-PLC-IP3-Ca2+ pathway, inducing shape change and platelet aggregation.
Clopidogrel and ticlopidine block ADP receptors, inhibiting platelet aggregation for 4–7 days. 2) Reducing calcium availability i. Dipyridamole inhibits phosphodiesterase-mediated breakdown of cAMP thus decreasing intracellular calcium availability and platelet aggregation.