Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Ducks can live from 7-20 years, depending on the species of duck. There are wild ducks and there are domestic ducks bred for meat and eggs. The parks & recreation departments have an animal control department that picks up road kill and other dead wild & domestic animals that are reported by the public. My pet duck has a blog.
incubated for 27-28 days to hatching with 50-60 days to fledging so 50-60 days i guess. At best, this is an ill formed answer, as it is not accurate. Duck eggs hatch dependi … ng on the species of duck. Mallard ducks can hatch as early as 25 days, they do not follow the 28 scenario. 
Ducks live for a number of years, but of course that can differ from species to species and whether they live in captivity or in the wild. On average, however, a duck will live around 15 years. A Pekin duck will live 9-12 years, a Mallard 15-20 years and Muscovy ducks 10-20 years. 
ducks can live from 6 years to as much as 20 with geese known to reach 40 to 50 if well cared for. as a rule smaller breeds like mallards can live longer than larger breeds like pekins but I know of at least one pekin that is 19 and still going so they should have some time left coming to them. Bill. I have 7 Pekins. 6 are 4 years old now and one that we got from a friend is 8. We had our female Rouen, also 4, die a month or so ago. She passed in her sleep while sitting on a nest. I was wondering if I should expect more of my ducks to die soon. 4 years seems a little young to me. How long do Pekins and pekin crosses live?
Answers. Get yourself some books about caring for ducks). It depends on the breed, but on average ducks like for 10 to 15 years. Breeds that were bred for fast growth and large size will generally not live as long. Ducks cannot be potty trained.. Since they lack the anal sphincter muscle, it is physically impossible for them to hold their droppings inside
How long does a cayuga duck live? Most Cayugas that are well taken care of can live anywhere from 11 years to 15 years. However, if a Cayuga is extremely healthy and extremely lucky and well taken care of, it … can sometimes live to up to 20 years old. 7 people found this useful. I have a friend whose ducks have lived 14 years! Ducks average seven (plus or minus) years. 2nd answerer says: Ducks that are well-cared for can live 20+ years! + 54 others
It's a fact that a wild duck can live 20 years or more. The world record is a Mallard Drake that lived to a ripe old age of 27 years. Domestic ducks typically live 10-15 years in captivity. Those same domestic ducks you see in your local ponds and lakes-abandoned by their owners to fend for themselves typically survive less than three years. Bread, crackers and people foods are devastating for all ducks.
 Domestic ducks can live to be 10-15 years old; geese can live 15-20 years.  Geese tend to be territorial and are good at chasing off intruders; they can be aggressive, especially during breeding season. They will typically back off if you wave your arms and move towards them, making noise. 
Did you know that a duck could live upto 20 years? Yes, that is right. Although domesticated ducks have a relatively less lifespan when compared to their wild counterparts, the former can approximately live for 10 to 15 years. One mallard duck lived for 27 years, making it the highest life span for a duck till date. These lovely birds are generally found in aquatic habitats like wetlands, marshes, ponds, rivers, lakes and even oceans. Winter is the perfect season for ducks to look out for a mate