A feral child is a human child who has lived away from human contact from a very young age, and has little or no experience of human care, loving or social behavior, and, crucially, of human language. Feral children are confined by humans (often parents), brought up by animals, or live in the wild in isolation. There have been over one hundred reported cases of feral children, and this is a selection of ten of them. 10. Shamdeo. In May 1972, a boy aged about four was discovered in the forest of Musafirkhana, about 20 miles from Sultanpur.
There is little scientific knowledge about feral children. One of the best-known examples, the “detailed diaries” of Reverend Singh, who claimed to have discovered Amala and Kamala (two girls who had been “brought up from birth by wolves”) in a forest in India, has been proven a fraud to obtain funds for his orphanage. Feral children may have experienced severe abuse or trauma before being abandoned or running away. Feral children are sometimes the subjects of folklore and legends, typically portrayed as having been raised by animals.
Some feral children have been confined by people (usually their own parents), and in some cases this child abandonment was due to the parents’ rejection of a child’s severe intellectual or physical impairment. Feral children may have experienced severe abuse or trauma before being abandoned or running away. Feral children are sometimes the subjects of folklore and legends, typically portrayed as having been raised by animals.
Feral children are children who have lived in isolation from human contact, leading to a variety of social, mental, and physical impairments. In this lesson, we will define this phenomenon, discuss its impacts, and look at some notable cases. Lesson Summary. Feral children are children who have spent several years isolated from human contact and are deprived of enculturation, the socialization necessary to function as members of society. They experience mental, physical, and social impairments as a result.
Mowgli was a fictional feral child in Rudyard Kipling 's The Jungle Book. A feral child (also called wild child) is a human child who has lived isolated from human contact from a very young age, and has little or no experience of human care, behavior, or, crucially, of human language. Feral children may have experienced severe abuse or trauma before being abandoned or running away. Feral children are sometimes the subjects of folklore and legends, typically portrayed as having been raised by animals.
Feral children are children who have lived with limited or no human contact due to abandonment or confinement by their parents and have suffered developmental problems as a result. Lesson Summary. Feral children are children who have spent several years isolated from human contact and are deprived of enculturation, the socialization necessary to function as members of society. They experience mental, physical, and social impairments as a result.
Genie (born 1957) is the pseudonym of a feral child who was a victim of severe abuse, neglect and social isolation. 
This term is applied to children that reportedly have been raised by wild animals and isolated from human contact. An example is the wolf children of India. FERAL CHILDREN: Feral children are those reportedly raised by animals.. No related posts. 
Full Definition of FERAL. 1. 2. a: not domesticated or cultivated: wild. — feral noun. See feral defined for English-language learners. See feral defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 