(Redirected from Hydrogen Bond). Definition. noun. A type of chemical bond that is formed when the slightly positive hydrogen atom of a polar covalent bond forms an electrostatic link with the more electreonegative atom of a polar covalent bond in the same or another molecule. Supplement. A hydrogen bond is a weak type of chemical bond that is common in organisms. As the name suggests, this type of bond involves a hydrogen atom that is attracted to a strongly electronegative atom such as oxygen, fluorine, or nitrogen
A noncovalent bond between an electronegative atom (commonly oxygen or nitrogen) and a hydrogen atom covalently bonded to another electronegative atom. Particularly important in stabilizing the three-dimensional structure of proteins and formation of base pair s in nucleic acids.
noun. A type of chemical bond that is formed when the slightly positive hydrogen atom of a polar covalent bond forms an electrostatic link with the more electreonegative atom of a polar covalent bond in the same or another molecule. Supplement. A hydrogen bond is a weak type of chemical bond that is common in organisms. As the name suggests, this type of bond involves a hydrogen atom that is attracted to a strongly electronegative atom such as oxygen, fluorine, or nitrogen
A hydrogen bond is an extremely strong bond between molecule s with a Hydrogen atom bonded to a Fluorine, Oxygen or Nitrogen atom and a molecule with a Fluorine, Oxygen or Nitrogen atom. Hydrogen bond s are notably found between the bases in DNA. Transcript ...
Hydrogen Bond Definition: A hydrogen bond is a type of attractive (dipole-dipole) interaction between an electronegative atom and a hydrogen atom bonded to another electronegative atom. This bond always involves a hydrogen atom. Hydrogen bonds can occur between molecules or within parts of a single molecule.
A weak bond involving the sharing of an electron with a hydrogen atom; hydrogen bonds are important in the specificity of base pairing in nucleic acids and in the determination of protein shape.
A type of weak chemical bond formed when the slightly positive hydrogen atom of a polar covalent bond in one molecule is attracted to the slightly negative atom of a polar covalent bond in another molecule.