An ingot is a piece of material, usually metal, that is cast into a shape suitable for further processing. In steelmaking, it is the first step among semi-finished casting products. Ingots usually require a second procedure of shaping, such as cold/hot working, cutting, or milling to produce a useful final product. 
Aluminum Alloy Ingots are ingots in which aluminum (Al) is the predominant metal. The typical alloying elements are copper, magnesium, manganese, silicon and zinc. Aluminum alloys are widely used in engineering structures and components where light weight or corrosion resistance is required. 
Aluminium Ingot. 629 pages on this wiki. Aluminium Ingots are used to manufacture Aluminium Plates, but they can also be used like regular Iron Ingots to manufacture armor and tools. In order to get Aluminium Ingots, you must first mine Bauxite Ore, using at least an Iron Pickaxe, and smelt it in the furnace. To make aluminium plates, use the ingot with an anvil and a hammer. Aluminium armour is only slightly better than iron armour.
We are merchant traders of the cutting edge quality aluminum ingots. Our aluminum ingots act as a raw material which is used in automobiles, electrical & pressure die casting industries etc. There exist various alloys like LM6, ALSi132 and many more with us. These are manufactured using aluminum alloys implementing cutting edge technology. Owing to their high tensile strength, these ingots are widely used in automobile industries for making different type of components such as cylinder heads, alternator castings, pump ...
Click a region Wherever you are in the world, you can turn to Alcoa for a dependable supply of the aluminum ingot you need. This is the starting point of choice for the manufacture of aluminum products worldwide -- Alcoa's globally integrated system of smelters in North America, South America, Europe and Australia. 
We are merchant traders of the cutting edge quality aluminum ingots. Our aluminum alloy ingots act as a raw material which is used in automobiles, electrical & pressure die casting industries etc. There exist various alloys ingots like lm6, alsi132 and many more with us. Furthermore, our aluminum ingots are available at very nominal cost. more... We supply high-purity Aluminium Ingots of upto 99.85% purity of Nalco, Balco and Hindalco make. Our primary metal product range includes EC grade, CG grade and high purity ingots, sow ingots, alloy ingots, billets and wire rods.
Uses Edit. Aluminium ingots are used in many recipes such as Lithium Batteries. In addition, aluminium ingots can replace some other metals in some of the recipes to make production more efficient, such as Mixed Metal Ingots and Electronic Circuits, along with Pistons and other objects. 
Aluminium Ingots are used in many recipes such as Lithium Batteries. In addition, Aluminium Ingots can replace some other metals in some of the recipes to make production more efficient, such as Mixed Metal Ingots and Electronic Circuits. Aluminium Ingot. The Aluminium Ingot is a type of Ingot that can be made via smelting Aluminium Dust, which in turn is produced mainly from Bauxite Dust. The Aluminium Ingot is used in many crafting recipe