Rascal Flatts is an American country pop music group formed in Columbus, Ohio in 1999. The band is composed of Gary LeVox (lead vocals) and second cousins Jay DeMarcus (bass guitar, keyboards, background vocals) and Joe Don Rooney (electric guitar, background vocals). DeMarcus is a brother-in-law of country singer James Otto, and formerly one-half of the Christian music duo East to West. Rascal Flatts released the first single,  Here Comes Goodbye , from their album Unstoppable to radio on January 20, 2009, and the album was released on April 7. Here Comes Goodbye became the group's tenth No. 1 hit. The song was co-written by American Idol season six finalist Chris Sligh.
by CMT.com Staff 7/23/2003. When Rascal Flatts sings “I’m Movin’ On,” they mean it. Throughout the next few months, the trio — Gary LeVox, Jay DeMarcus and Joe Don Rooney — will hit the road with Toby Keith and, on the CMT Most Wanted Live tour, with Brad Paisley. Their new album, Melt, comes out Oct. 29. 
Rascal Flatts Band Bio. Since their musical debut in 2000, Rascal Flatts has over 22.5 million albums sold and over 28 million digital downloads and delivered 15 #1 singles to the top of the charts. Rascal Flatts is the most awarded Country group of the past decade, earning over 40 trophies from the ACAs, ACMs, AMAs, CMAs, People’s Choice Awards and more. As one of the hottest-selling acts on tour in any genre, they’ve sold over 7 million concert tickets, and counting.
A country trio known primarily for its pleasing harmonies and Grammy-winning songcraft, Rascal Flatts comprised Gary LeVox, Jay Demarcus, and Joe Don Rooney. Cousins Demarcus and LeVox grew up in Columbus, Ohio, a town Demarcus eventually left in 1992 to pursue a music career in Nashville. 
Rascal Flatts Biography: The band Rascal Flatts consists of cousins Gary LeVox and Jay DeMarcus, plus pal Joe Don Rooney. Jay DeMarcus started his career as part of the Christian group East to West. He moved to Nashville in 1992, and convinced Gary to move from their hometown in Columbus, Ohio to Nashville in 1997. Rascal Flatts Basic Facts: Jay DeMarcus (multi-instrumentalist/vocalist), born April 26, 1971. Gary LeVox (vocalist), born July 10, 1970. Joe Don Rooney (guitarist/vocalist), born September 13, 1975.
Since their musical debut in 2000, the band has sold over 21 million albums, 25 million digital downloads and delivered 14 #1 singles to the top of the charts. Rascal Flatts is the most awarded Country group of the past decade, earning over 40 trophies from the ACAs, ACMs, AMAs, CMAs, People's Choice Awards and more. As one of the hottest-selling acts on tour in any genre, they’ve sold over 6 million concert tickets, and counting
Biography: Rascal Flatts is an American country band that originated in Columbus, Ohio, U.S. Since its inception, Rascal Flatts has been composed of three members: Gary LeVox, Jay DeMarcus and Joe Don Rooney. LeVox and DeMarcus are second cousins. 
Joe Don Rooney aka J.D. Rooney (Born on September 13, 1975 in Baxter Springs, Kansas and raised in Picher, Oklahoma) is an American musician and the lead guitarist and high octave harmony singer in the American country pop trio Rascal Flatts. 
Ever since their eponymous 2000 debut there has been more pop than country in Rascal Flatts ' contemporary country-pop, but with each subsequent record the trio has been drifting slowly, steadily toward outright adult pop, which is where they arrive on their fourth album, 2006's Me and My Gang. 
1 16 Now Playing rascal-flatts Joe Don Rooney, Gary LeVox and Jay Demarcus of Rascal Flatts attend the 'Rewind' Album Release Party on May 13, 2014, in Los Angeles. Rascal Flatts is the most awarded Country group of the past decade, earning over 40 trophies from the ACAs, ACMs, AMAs, CMAs, People's Choice Awards and more.