1 Cost: 2  Redwood is the most expensive wood used in decking and other structures. 3  The farther away one is from the West Coast, the higher the prices will be. 4  Redwood can be up to four times more expensive than pressure treated lumber. 1 Cost: 2  Pressure treated lumber is by far the least expensive lumber to use on a deck or outdoor structure. 3  Lumber of this type is generally half the price of redwood, cedar, and cypress. 4  Caution: 5  Pressure-treated lumber has become an environmental concern over the last ten years.
Furniture. Some of the best looking and most durable patio furniture is made from redwood. The tight, straight grain make it perfect for Adirondack-style chairs, picnic table legs and tops, or any other comfort or functional furniture. The natural beauty of redwood also lends itself to cushions on chairs and couches. It has a chemical inside the pores that makes it weather-, insect-and rot-resistant. Redwood will last far longer than any other type of wood when exposed to the elements. It's perfect for almost any outdoor application but can also be used on the interior of a home.
.60 LBS./CU FT. Wood used in situations where it's more likely to rot contains more preservative. Pressure-treated lumber is the logical choice for the structural part of your deck—the posts, joists, beams and other members you normally don't see. Pressure-treated lumber can support more weight and span longer distances than cedar, redwood or other woods commonly used for building decks. 
All Heart Redwood Lumber is milled from the center of the tree and is often specified for its natural resistance to moisture and insects and reduced maintenance. The primary grades of All heart Redwood are Construction Heart, Select Knotty Heart, Heart B and Clear All Heart. Redwood Lumber is a durable softwood-lighter and easy to work with compared to exotic Hardwoods-resistant to cupping and warping. Redwood lumber, siding and decking are often specified by architects due to a reputation earned when they were milling 2000 year old trees. The thing about today's redwood is that it is primarily 2nd growth trees being milled
Redwood is the single best decking material available. The long, straight boards line-up without any deviations with few defects. The natural strength and stability of redwood make it a favorite for any kind of deck, and the deep red color and beauty make it unrivaled. Redwood decking commands a premium price. It has a chemical inside the pores that makes it weather-, insect-and rot-resistant. Redwood will last far longer than any other type of wood when exposed to the elements. It's perfect for almost any outdoor application but can also be used on the interior of a home.
1 Redwood is the most expensive wood used in decking and other structures. 2  The farther away one is from the West Coast, the higher the prices will be. 3  Redwood can be up to four times more expensive than pressure treated lumber. 1 Cost: 2  Pressure treated lumber is by far the least expensive lumber to use on a deck or outdoor structure. 3  Lumber of this type is generally half the price of redwood, cedar, and cypress. 4  Caution: 5  Pressure-treated lumber has become an environmental concern over the last ten years.
Redwood is native to the coastline of northern California and southern Oregon and is a soft, lightweight wood that's fairly strong for its weight. Its distinctive pink or reddish hue becomes darker when finished. This colorful wood is used indoors for veneers, paneling and some furniture pieces. The heart or inner portion of redwood resists rot and insects, making it a viable choice outdoors, such as for decking and patio furniture. If you're using redwood for your own projects, keep in mind the intended use and location of the finished piece. Heartwood is preferred for outdoor furniture and structures that need to withstand the elements. High-quality grades of sapwood are well-suited to indoor projects, such as paneling.
Redwood is a premium building wood. It has a chemical inside the pores that makes it weather-, insect-and rot-resistant. Redwood will last far longer than any other type of wood when exposed to the elements. It's perfect for almost any outdoor application but can also be used on the interior of a home.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Redwood lumber is lumber cut from redwood — trees in the cypress family primarily found in the Pacific Northwest. Redwood has a number of characteristics that make it popular with builders and furniture makers. 