The Schengen visa allows the holder to a total stay of up to 90 days within a period of 6 months for tourist or business purposes. If you get a multiple entry Schengen visa, you may leave and return any number of times within the 180-day period, but the combined stay within the region must not total more than 90 days. You need to apply for a Schengen visa if you are a citizen of a country whose citizens are subject to the visa requirement. A Schengen visa must be applied in person, NOT by mail.
At present, 25 countries have signed the Schengen Agreement. These include: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. 
Visa and non-visa nationals [edit]. Citizens of the European Economic Area (EU, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein) and Switzerland only require a valid national identity card or passport and do not need a visa for the Schengen Area, and are generally allowed to stay for as long as they want. A Schengen visa and visa-free travel to the Schengen area (for eligible non-EEA or Swiss nationals) is valid for only short stays (those that are 90 days or less within a 180-day period).
Schengen Area is comprised of twenty-two European Union member states as well as four European Free Trade Association member states (EFTA is an association of ten Fair Trade importers in nine European countries (Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom). 
The Schengen Visa has made traveling between its 26 member countries much easier and less bureaucratic. Traveling on a Schengen Visa means that the visa holder can travel to any (or all) member countries using one single visa, thus avoiding the hassle and expense of obtaining individual visas for each country. A Schengen visa allows the holder to travel freely within the Schengen countries for a maximum stay of up to 90 days in a 6 month period. The first step in the application process is to Apply the Schengen Application Guide.
Of the six EU members that do not form part of the Schengen Area, four – Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus and Romania – are legally obliged and wish to join the area, while the other two – Ireland and the United Kingdom – maintain opt-outs. Countries in the Schengen Area have eliminated internal border controls with the other Schengen members and strengthened external border controls with non-Schengen states.
With the Schengen agreement countries in Europe decided to gradually abolish border controls, and make movement of people much easier. With a Schengen visa you can travel and stay not only in Germany, but all 26 countries that participate in the Schengen Agreement for a period of up to 90 days: With a Schengen visa you are not allowed to work or study, thus it’s mandatory that you apply for a student visa or work visa (national visa) if you wish to stay for more than 90 days. Germany Visa Application Form.
The Schengen Area consists of 22 European Union member states and four non-members: Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus and Romania are not yet part of the Schengen Area, but nonetheless have a visa policy that is based on the Schengen acquis. However, some third-country nationals are permitted to stay in the Schengen Area for more than 90 days without the need to apply for a long-stay visa. For example, France does not require citizens of Andorra, the Holy See, Monaco and San Marino
Schengen zone member states. Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. All Schengen countries are in Europe. A Schengen visa allows the holder to travel freely within the Schengen countries for a maximum stay of up to 90 days in a 6 month period. The first step in the application process is to Apply the Schengen Application Guide.
Countries of the Schengen Zone include Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland. A Schengen visa and visa-free travel to the Schengen area (for eligible non-EEA or Swiss nationals) is valid for only short stays (those that are 90 days or less within a 180-day period).