2. : any of a large family (Leguminosae syn. Fabaceae, the legume family) of dicotyledonous herbs, shrubs, and trees having fruits that are legumes (sense 3) or loments, bearing nodules on the roots that contain nitrogen-fixing bacteria, and including important food and forage plants (as peas, beans, or clovers). 3. Full Definition of LEGUME. 1. a: the fruit or seed of plants of the legume family (as peas or beans) used for food b: a vegetable used for food. 2.
Any of a variety of plants having pods that contain seeds. Because of a symbiotic relationship with bacteria that live in nodules on their roots, legumes are able to take nitrogen from the air and convert it into compounds that enrich soils. Beans, peas, clover, and alfalfa are all legumes. 2. The pod or seed of such a plant, used as food
A legume (/ˈlɛɡjuːm/ or /ˌləˈɡjuːm/) is a plant in the family Fabaceae (or Leguminosae), or the fruit or seed of such a plant. Legumes are grown agriculturally, primarily for their food grain seed (example beans and lentils, or generally pulse), for livestock forage and silage, and as soil-enhancing green manure. Legumes are notable in that most of them have symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria in structures called root nodules. Well-known legumes include alfalfa, clover, peas, beans, lentils, lupins, mesquite, carob, soybeans, peanuts and tamarind. A legume fruit is a simple dry fruit that develops from a simple carpel and usually dehisces (opens along a seam) on two sides. A common name for this type of fruit is a pod, although the term pod is also applied to a few other fruit types, such as that of vanilla (a capsule) and of radish (a silique)
Learner's definition of LEGUME. [count]. : a type of plant (such as a pea or a bean plant) with seeds that grow in long cases (called pods). also: these seeds eaten as food. recipes that include legumes like lentils and chickpeas. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples.
legume. (lĕ`gyo͞om, lĭgyo͞om`) , common name for any plant of the family Leguminosae, which is called also the pulse pulse,in botany, common name for members of the Fabaceae (Leguminosae), a large plant family, called also the pea, or legume, family. Click the link for more information. , legume, pea, or bean family. The word is often used loosely in the plural for vegetables in general. Botanically, a legume is the characteristic fruit of the pulse family plants, called also leguminous plants. It is a pod podor legume,dehiscent fruit of a member of the family Leguminosae (pulse family)
• LEGUME (noun). The noun LEGUME has 3 senses: 1. an erect or climbing bean or pea plant of the family Leguminosae. 2. the fruit or seed of any of various bean or pea plants consisting of a case that splits along both sides when ripe and having the seeds attach to one side of the case.
3. legume-the seedpod of a leguminous plant (such as peas or beans or lentils). veg, vegetable, veggie-edible seeds or roots or stems or leaves or bulbs or tubers or nonsweet fruits of any of numerous herbaceous plant. pulse-edible seeds of various pod-bearing plants (peas or beans or lentils etc.). Because of a symbiotic relationship with bacteria that live in nodules on their roots, legumes are able to take nitrogen from the air and convert it into compounds that enrich soils. Beans, peas, clover, and alfalfa are all legumes. 2.