In human anatomy, the acromion (from Greek: akros, highest, ōmos, shoulder, plural: acromia) is a bony process on the scapula (shoulder blade). Together with the coracoid process it extends laterally over the shoulder joint. The acromion has four ossification centers called (from tip to base) pre-acromion, meso-acromion, meta-acromion, and basi-acromion. In most cases, the first three fuse at 15–18 years, whereas the base part fuses to the scapular spine at 12 years.
Functional Anatomy. Understanding the functional anatomy of the rotator cuff assists in understanding its disorders. The rotator cuff is the dynamic stabilizer of the glenohumeral joint. The static stabilizers are the capsule and the labrum complex, including the glenohumeral ligaments. 
The Acromion is an anatomical feature on the scapula (the shoulder blade). It is a lateral of extension of the spine on the scapula, forming the highest point on the shoulder and is triangular in shape. It occurs along with the coracoids process over the shoulder joint. Acromion Scapula. Scapula is the scientific name for the shoulder blade. It is a kind of triangular, flat bone lying over the back of the upper ribs. The scapula serves as an attachment for the muscles of the arm, neck, chest and the back. The back of the scapula is divided into unequal portions by a spine.
The shape of the acromion had been initially divided into three types (which was known as the Bigliani classification 3), to which a fourth has been added 2. 
Acromion Anatomy. Acromion shoulder is the lateral extension of the spine of the scapula. Scapula is the scientific name for the shoulder blade. The spine leads to a ‘head’ and here it bears two processes – the acromion process and the carocoid process. Acromion Scapula. Scapula is the scientific name for the shoulder blade. It is a kind of triangular, flat bone lying over the back of the upper ribs. The scapula serves as an attachment for the muscles of the arm, neck, chest and the back. The back of the scapula is divided into unequal portions by a spine.
The acromion is a continuation of the scapular spine, and hooks over anteriorly. It articulates with the clavicle (collar bone) to form the acromioclavicular joint. The acromion has four ossification centers called (from tip to base) pre-acromion, meso-acromion, meta-acromion, and basi-acromion. In most cases, the first three fuse at 15–18 years, whereas the base part fuses to the scapular spine at 12 years.
Methods: We performed a histologic evaluation of theanterior aspect of 15 acromions, the parameters of the anatomy of the anterior acromion, includingthe deltoid origin, and the morphology of the acromion. A simulated arthroscopic acromioplasty wasperformed and the effect on the anterior deltoid origin was determined. Results: Resection of 4 mmof bone from the underside of the acromion resulted in release of 56% (11%), and resection of 5.5mm of bone resulted in 77% (15%) release of the deltoid origin. The scapular spine was osteoto-mized at the spinoglenoid notch and the acromion washarvested with all attached soft tissue, including thedeltoid muscle and coracoacromial ligament. Plainradiographs of the acromion were obtained in an axialprojection and tangential to the plane of the acromion(a simulated outlet view).
The acromion is a projection from the scapula (shoulder blade) and is located on the top and front (antero-superior) of the shoulder. It can be felt as a bony tip on the top of the shoulder. The acromion is like a “roof” over the rotator cuff. The acromion serves as the attachment of the deltoid muscle. Definition. Os-acromiale is a loose / mobile acromion of the shoulder which may or may not cause pain. In the most cases the loose acromion may go undetected as it does not lead to any painful symptoms.
Acromion: The projection of the scapula (the shoulder blade) that forms the point of the shoulder. The acromion is part of the scapula. It protrudes laterally (away from the midline) and is triangular in shape. The top of the shoulder is acromial. The word acromion comes from the Greek akron, peak + omos, shoulder = the peak of the shoulder.