Here is an example of how a specific genotype is less favorable than another genotype: Genetic variation in a population is derived from a wide assortment of genes and alleles. The persistence of populations over time through changing environments depends on their capacity to adapt to shifting external conditions.
There are three primary sources of genetic variation, which we will learn more about: 1  Mutations are changes in the DNA. 2  Gene flow is any movement of genes from one population to another and is an important source of genetic variation. 3  Sex can introduce new gene combinations into a population.
1 Genetic variation results in different forms, or alleles, of genes. 2  For example, if we look at eye colour, people with blue eyes have one allele of the gene for eye colour, whereas people with brown eyes will have a different allele of the gene.
1 Mutations are changes in the DNA. 2  A single mutation can have a large effect, but in many cases, evolutionary change is based on the accumulation of many mutations. 3  Gene flow is any movement of genes from one population to another and is an important source of genetic variation.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: In genetic variation, the genes of organisms within a population change. Gene alleles determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring. Gene variation is important to the process of natural selection. The genetic variations that arise in a population happen by chance, but the process of natural selection does not. Natural selection is the result of the interactions between genetic variations in a population and the environment.
Genetic variation is a term used to describe the variation in the DNA sequence in each of our genomes. Genetic variation is what makes us all unique, whether in terms of hair colour, skin colour or even the shape of our faces.
An example of genetic variation is like sickle cell anemia. Sickle cell anemia is a mutation but is adaptive where malaria exists, like in Africa, it helps fight off the disease. But in a place like America it is not adaptive so its less common.