Alberobello Italy-Alberobello Puglia Italy. Tourist information about this unique and famous town in central Puglia (Apulia), Italy which is an attraction in its own right for the English speaking visitor, with accommodation and hotels. Alberobello Italy Alberobello Puglia Italy. Alberobello Italy-Alberobello Puglia Italy. Tourist information about this unique and famous town in central Puglia (Apulia), Italy which is an attraction in its own right for the English speaking visitor, with accommodation and hotels. Alberobello. Alberobello is so unique it has been designated by UNESCO as a world heritage site because of its famous trulli zones, that is areas of the famous peasant houses constructed from the local limestone in a dry stone fashion with conical roofs.
Alberobello [1] is a town in the province of Bari (BA) in the Italian region of Apulia (Puglia), Italy. Alberobello is famous for its fairytale like 14. 
The trulli, the characteristic cone-roofed houses of Alberobello, Apulia, make up one of the 50 UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Italy.
Alberobello (. [ˌalberoˈbɛllo] ; literally beautiful tree) is a small town and comune of the Metropolitan City of Bari, Apulia, southern Italy. It has about 11,000 inhabitants and is famous for its unique trulli buildings. The Trulli of Alberobello have been designated as a UNESCO World Heritage site since 1996. Alberobello was first mentioned in the early sixteenth century when the first 40 families got land to farm in the area. The abundance of calcareous sedimentary material in the area lead to the building of houses with dry stone without the use of mortar.
The home of trulli. Alberobello is a small Italian town like any other at a first glance. The streets are narrow and hilly, houses are white, the weather is pleasant and life is slow. But if you take a closer look to some of the houses, you will think you landed in a fantasy book.
Lastet opp 11. nov. 2010. Alberobello is a small town and comune in the province of Bari, in Puglia, Italy. It has about 11,000 inhabitants and is famous for its unique trulli constructions.
Alberobello is in the heart of Puglia's primary tourist region, near the Baroque town of Martina Franca and characteristic towns like Andria, Trani, Locorotondo and Ostuni.lberobello began as a  borgo , a village constructed by the area's ruling family the Acquaviva to house the farmers who worked the feudal lands. In 1797, the town appealed to the Bourbon King Ferdinand IV requested autonomy and was granted the status of free commune.