Details. CMP-14 - The Comprehensive Metabolic Panel is a group of 14 laboratory tests ordered to give information about the current status of your liver, kidneys, and electrolyte and acid/base balance. The test gives the current status of your blood sugar and blood proteins also. A Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP-14) Blood Test is a group of 14 tests that gives important information about the current status of your health. The complete metabolic panel CMP-14 is one of the most popular lab tests ordered. Payment Processing.
Overview. A comprehensive metabolic panel, or CMP, is a blood test that is often ordered by physicians as part of a routine physical exam. The blood test is used to assess liver and kidney functions and to help diagnose medical conditions such as diabetes or hypertension. The electrolytes tested in a CMP blood test include: 1  Carbon dioxide: may help determine the cause of many symptoms relating to breathing problems. 2  Chloride: tests for kidney or adrenal gland problems. 3  Potassium: checks the level of this electrolyte and mineral. 4  Sod
The Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP) includes 14 essential tests that are typically requested by your doctor as part of a routine check‐up or annual physical. Most customers who are interested in the CMP decide to upgrade to the Basic Check‐Up Panel, a Comprehensive Male Panel or the Comprehensive Female Panel. All of these Value Panels include the Comprehensive Metabolic Panel as well as other important tests.
Topic Overview. A comprehensive metabolic panel is a blood test that measures your sugar (glucose) level, electrolyte and fluid balance, kidney function, and liver function. Glucose is a type of sugar your body uses for energy. Electrolytes keep your body's fluids in balance. It also controls the amounts of glucose, protein, and fat in the blood and releases substances that keep your immune system healthy. Your doctor may order a comprehensive metabolic panel as part of a regular health examination.
The comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) blood test is group of 14 blood tests that evaluate organ function. ... The Civilian Marksmanship Program... The CMP screens for organ dysfunction by measuring glucose, calcium, pre-albumin, albumin, electrolytes (sodium, CO2, potassium and chloride), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine amino transferase (ALT), aspartate amino transferase (AST), and bilirubin.
A comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) is a blood test that provides information about: 1  how the kidney and liver are functioning. 2  sugar (glucose) and protein levels in the blood. 3  the body’s electrolyte and fluid balance. 
The comprehensive metabolic panel, or chemical screen, (CMP; CPT code 80053) is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool. Abnormal values from a CMP are often the result of false positives and thus the CMP may need to be repeated (or a more specific test performed), requiring a second blood drawing procedure and possibly additional expense for the patient, even though no disease is present.
Save. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. The comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) blood test is group of 14 blood tests that evaluate organ function. Physicians often order the CMP blood test as part of an annual physical, or your doctor may order the test to investigate an existing complaint or symptom. The CMP screens for organ dysfunction by measuring glucose, calcium, pre-albumin, albumin, electrolytes (sodium, CO2, potassium and chloride), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine amino transferase (ALT), aspartate amino transferase (AST), and bilirubin.