Range & Habitat. The mighty jaguar once roamed from Argentina in South America all the way up to the Grand Canyon in Arizona. Today, jaguars have been almost completely eliminated from the United States and are endangered throughout their range, which stretches down to Patagonia in South America. Jaguars are solitary animals and live and hunt alone, except during mating season. The male's home range is between 19 and 53 square miles and often overlaps with the smaller home ranges of multiple females. A male aggressively protects his home range and resident females from other males.
The jaguar (/ˈdʒaeɡjuːər, ˈdʒæɡjuːər, ˈdʒaeɡjʊər/ ˈdʒæɡjʊər /ˈdʒaeɡjuːɑr/), ˈdʒæɡjuːɑr or, ˈdʒaeɡwɑr ˈdʒæɡwɑr panthera onca, is a big cat A feline, in the panthera genus and Is the only extant panthera Species. native to the americas The jaguar is the third-largest feline after the tiger and the lion, and the largest in the Americas. The jaguar's present range extends from Southwestern United States and Mexico across much of Central America and south to Paraguay and northern Argentina.
Here are some of the best Flickr photographs of the jaguar’s habitat. I have described where jaguars live; the areas, range or distribution as it is called of this Americas wildcat. In brief the range extends down from Arizona (it is thought) through Mexico to, and including, South America. 
Jaguars, once native to the extreme southern USA (Arizona & New Mexico), now inhabit portions of Mexico, Central America, Paraguary, Argentina, and in the Amazon Rainforest of … South America. Jaguars, often mistaken as leopards because of their spots, are not in Africa. Jagaurs habitat is dense lowland rainforests where it is humid and damp. They avoid open grasslands and seasonally dry forests. The jaguar is a very adaptable cat. It lives in deserts, mountains, and plains as well as the rain forest.
A Jaguar has many habitats in the whole entire world. For example one of their habitats is in the jungle,and another one in a rain forest in South America. Contrary to some op … inion, jaguars are native only to parts of Mexico, Central and South America. Jagaurs habitat is dense lowland rainforests where it is humid and damp. They avoid open grasslands and seasonally dry forests. The jaguar is a very adaptable cat. It lives in deserts, mountains, and plains as well as the rain forest.
Jaguars are large cats that can be found in North, Central and South America. They are identified by their yellow or orange coats, dark spots and short legs. The dark spots on their coats are unlike any other cat spots. Each spot looks like a rose and are called rosettes. 
Jaguars live in mostly South America except Chile, Central America, Texas, Colorado and New Mexico. They inhabit rainforest grasslands and woodlands.    Jaguars are predominantly found in Rain Forests and dense forests of North & South America. They can be found in countries like Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Columbia, Dcuador, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Mexico, Paragua, Peru, USA, Venezuela etc. Jagaurs habitat is dense lowland rainforests where it is humid and damp. They avoid open grasslands and seasonally dry forests. The jaguar is a very adaptable cat. It lives in deserts, mountains, and plains as well as the rain forest.
The jaguar (/ˈdʒaeɡjuːər, ˈdʒæɡjuːər, ˈdʒaeɡjʊər/ ˈdʒæɡjʊər /ˈdʒaeɡjuːɑr/), ˈdʒæɡjuːɑr or, ˈdʒaeɡwɑr ˈdʒæɡwɑr panthera onca, is a big cat A feline, in the panthera genus and Is the only extant panthera Species. Native to the americas the-jaguar is the third largest feline after the, tiger and the lion and The. largest in the americas The jaguar is the third-largest feline after the tiger and the lion, and the largest in the Americas. The jaguar's present range extends from Southwestern United States and Mexico across much of Central America and south to Paraguay and northern Argentina.
Jaguars have been disappeared from many of its habitat range in the last fifty years or so; unlike before, not a single species now exist in Argentina and Uruguay. On the positive side, however, the historical range of jaguars extends from Oregon to Pennsylvania throughout North America. 