HPS Simulations is proud to announce the release of Decisive Action, a simulation by Jim Lunsford. Decisive Action is a modern Division and Corps level simulation that depicts combat with maneuver brigades and battalions along with supporting artillery, airstrikes, electronic warfare, engineer, helicopters, and even pysops units. Jim Lunsford and HPS Simulations have ripped me from my complacency. Decisive Action elevates the topic of modern ground combat from a mere game to a serious simulation. Serious gamers looking past 1945 will see most of their dreams answered in a most professional manner.
Planning and coordinating battle is not done first person on a foxhole. Decisive Action snaps us back to the fact that war requires calculation, patience and work. Colonel Lunsford has afforded us the opportunity to break out of video mindsets and return to what command is all about. Decisive Action comes with a hefty manual in PDF format and four Army manuals on the CD disc. While doing a fine job of explaining the interface, the manual is so detailed that it highlights the game s complexity rather than making the learning curve easier.
Their job is extremely specific. However, in forced entry or decisive action, their requirements are very broad — almost generic — in that they have to perform other field tasks. They have to go back to doing chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and high-yield explosive defense. Doctrine says that we will now conduct unified land operations, and under that there is decisive action. The DA rotation [at NTC] focuses on combined-arms maneuver — the ability to strike, seize, hold and end conflict quickly — and wide-area security, which is the culmination of all of our doctrine.
“One of the things about decisive action combined-arms maneuver is that you go into an immature theater and execute in a very austere situation,” he said. “The hard part for NCOs is they come in and think they are going to have things that are just not available. Doctrine says that we will now conduct unified land operations, and under that there is decisive action. The DA rotation [at NTC] focuses on combined-arms maneuver — the ability to strike, seize, hold and end conflict quickly — and wide-area security, which is the culmination of all of our doctrine.
Because of the detail and complexity of Decisive Action (DA) the learning curve can be very steep. The game mechanics force you into more detailed operations planning. Without proper planning you will never achieve your objectives, and your enjoyment of the game will be greatly diminished. 
de·ci·sive. adj. 1. Settling a matter or conflict; conclusive: the decisive battle in the war; the decisive piece of evidence in the lawsuit. 2. Characterized by or showing the ability to make decisions quickly and firmly; resolute: a decisive leader. de·ci′sive·ly adv