The Sea of Galilee is situated in northeast Israel, between the Golan Heights and the Galilee region, in the Jordan Rift Valley, the valley caused by the separation of the African and Arabian Plates. Consequently, the area is subject to earthquakes, and in the past, volcanic activity. The lake has a total area of 166.7 km 2 (64.4 sq mi) at its fullest, and a maximum depth of approximately 43 m (141 feet). At levels between 215 metres (705 ft) and 209 metres (686 ft) below sea level, it is the lowest freshwater lake on Earth and the second-lowest lake overall (after the Dead Sea, a saltwater lake).
Region. The northern part of Palestine, also referred to as Galilee of the gentiles because of the Assyrian conquest (Is 9:1). The S border was the Valley of Jezreel, the E border was to Sea of Galilee, the N border was Lebanon, and the W border was the Plain of Acre. The area is divided into two parts by a deep valley, thus upper Galilee and lower Galilee. Upper Galilee rose to a height of more than 3000 feet above sea level. Galilee's lush territory and fertile soil for agriculture provide a basis for rich economy in this region.
Galilee (Hebrew: הגליל ‎, transliteration HaGalil; Arabic: الجليل ‎, translit. al-Jalīl) is a region in northern Israel which overlaps with much of the administrative Northern District and Haifa District of the country. 1 Lower Galilee covers the area from Mount Carmel and Mount Gilboa in the south to the Beit HaKerem Valley in the north. 2  Its eastern border is the Jordan River. 3  It contains the Arab village of Cana. 4  Upper Galilee extends from the Beit HaKerem Valley northwards into southern Lebanon.
Galilee in Fausset's Bible Dictionary. (gal' ih lee) Place name meaning, circle or region. The northern part of Israel above the hill country of Ephraim and the hill country of Judah (Joshua 20:7). The area is divided into two parts by a deep valley, thus upper Galilee and lower Galilee. Upper Galilee rose to a height of more than 3000 feet above sea level. Galilee's lush territory and fertile soil for agriculture provide a basis for rich economy in this region.
This map includes some of the geographical locations within the ancient Galilee region in Israel. Galilee and its surrounding territory (Northern Palestine). The names that are underlined are from the Old Testament period, the others are important in New Testament times. Galilee was in the Roman province of Judea.
Hence, the Biblical Galilee of the non-Jewish Nations is in Hebrew  galil goyim  (verse Isaiah 8:23 or 9:1 in different numberings). It previously had other suffixes and following the end of the Phoenician Empire had different suffixes to the Hebrew culture and its derivatives interchangeably. 1 Lower Galilee covers the area from Mount Carmel and Mount Gilboa in the south to the Beit HaKerem Valley in the north. 2  Its eastern border is the Jordan River. 3  It contains the Arab village of Cana. 4  Upper Galilee extends from the Beit HaKerem Valley northwards into southern Lebanon.
Most of Galilee consists of rocky terrain, at heights of between 500 and 700 m. Several high mountains are in the region, including Mount Tabor and Mount Meron, which have relatively low temperatures and high rainfall. 1 Lower Galilee covers the area from Mount Carmel and Mount Gilboa in the south to the Beit HaKerem Valley in the north. 2  Its eastern border is the Jordan River. 3  It contains the Arab village of Cana. 4  Upper Galilee extends from the Beit HaKerem Valley northwards into southern Lebanon.
Best Answer: Galilee is the region in Israel west and north of the sea of Galilee. Try using Google maps with sea of Galilee. It is in northern Israel. It is not connected to the ocean. Jesus wandered around a lot, so I don't know what you mean by where did he live. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galilee http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sea_of_Gali... http://www.ccel.org/bible/phillips/CP051..
In post-exilie times Galilee is the name given to the most northerly of the three divisions of Western Palestine. The boundaries are indicated by Josephus (BJ, III, iii, 1). It was divided into Lower and Upper Galilee, and was encompassed by Phoenicia and Syria. Joshua 20:7 They set apart Kedesh in Galilee in the hill country of Naphtali, Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and Kiriath Arba (the same is Hebron) in the hill country of Judah.