Nail fungus can be caused by several different things and the cause of the infection is often difficult or even impossible to identify. Here are some common nail fungus culprits: 1  Growing Older. 
Also known as onychomycosis and tinea unguium, nail fungal infections are the most common diseases of the nails, making up about 50% of nail abnormalities. Both fingernails and toenails are susceptible to the infection, which usually manifests as discoloration and thickening of the nail and crumbling edges. In order to diagnose nail fungus infections, a doctor will usually examine debris that is scraped from underneath the nail. The nail scrapings will be used in tests such as a potassium hydroxide (KOH) smear or a fungal culture. The KOH test can be quickly performed, while the fungal culture can take weeks.
1 Dermatophytes cause almost all fungal toenail infections. 2  Yeasts are a type of fungus that grows on the skin and nails. 3  They are normally present on the human body. 4  Things like illness, antibiotic or birth control pill use, and immune system problems may allow an overgrowth of yeast, leading to a yeast infection. 1 You can get infected by contact with objects that have dermatophytes on them, such as clothing, shoes, nail clippers, nail files, shower and locker room floors, and carpet. 2  Dermatophytes cause almost all fungal toenail infections. 3  Yeasts are a type of fungus that grows on the skin and nails.
A fungal nail infection occurs from the overgrowth of fungi in, under, or on the nail. Fungi thrive in warm, moist environments, so this type of environment can cause them to naturally overpopulate. The same fungi that cause jock itch, athlete’s foot, and ringworm can cause infection in the nails. Overview. Fungal infections can affect any part of the body, from the skin to the eyes. Fungi are normally present in and around the body along with bacteria. When a fungus begins to overgrow, an infection can occur. Onychomycosis (also called tinea unguium) is a fungal infection that affects
Onychomycosis (also known as dermatophytic onychomycosis or tinea unguium) is a fungal infection of the nail. It is the most common disease of the nails and constitutes about half of all nail abnormalities. 
Fungal Nail Infections-Cause. Fungal nail infections can be caused by three different types of fungus, alone or in combination. 1  Dermatophytes are a type of fungus that can grow on the skin, hair, and nails. 2  They don't invade the deeper tissues of the body. 3  The most common dermatophyte, Trichophyton rubrum, causes most cases of athlete's foot. 1 You can get infected by contact with objects that have dermatophytes on them, such as clothing, shoes, nail clippers, nail files, shower and locker room floors, and carpet. 2  Dermatophytes cause almost all fungal toenail infections. 3  Yeasts are a type of fungus that grows on the skin and nails.
Nail fungus, also medically known as onychomycosis, is a chronic fungal infection of the fingernails and/or toenails by dermatophytes, also known as ringworm, yeasts and molds, leading to gradual destruction of the nail plate. Nail fungus typically begins with a fungal infection of the skin, such as athlete's foot. Once the skin is treated, however, the nails may act as a reservoir for reinfection that can spread the fungus to other parts of the body or to other people, Cohen told Live Science.
Topic Overview. A fungal nail infection occurs when a fungus attacks a fingernail, a toenail, or the skin under the nail, called the nail bed. Fungi (plural of fungus) can attack your nails through small cuts in the skin around your nail or through the opening between your nail and nail bed. A fungal nail infection could lead to more serious problems if you have diabetes or a weak immune system. Talk to your doctor about the best way to treat a nail infection if you have one of these problems. Yeasts, molds, and different kinds of fungi can cause fungal nail infections. Most are caused by the same type of fungus that causes athlete's foot. Fungi grow best in warm, moist places, and they can spread from person to person. You can get a fungal nail infection from walking barefoot in public showers or pools or by sharing personal items, such as towels and nail clippers