It is not contagious. That means you cannot get psoriasis from another person. And, it is not just a skin condition. Psoriasis is a lifelong condition of the immune system. The exact cause is unknown; however, researchers think that family history, environment, and the immune system can all play a role in psoriasis.
Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes scaly pink patches. Guttate psoriasis is a particular form of the disease that usually affects children and young adults. It can happen on its own, or as a complication of ordinary (chronic plaque) psoriasis. Often, it follows a bacterial throat infection or tonsillitis. 
Psoriasis is an autoimmune disease that causes raised, red, scaly patches to appear on the skin. It typically affects the outside of the elbows, knees or scalp, though it can appear on any location. Some people report that psoriasis is itchy, burns and stings. Erythrodermic [eh-REETH-ro-der-mik] psoriasis is a particularly severe form of psoriasis that leads to widespread, fiery redness over most of the body. It can cause severe itching and pain, and make the skin come off in sheets. It is rare, occurring in 3 percent of people who have psoriasis during their life time.
Psoriasis. Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease characterized by itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales. It is not contagious and can occur in people of any age. It may begin in late childhood or young adulthood and usually continues throughout life. Erythrodermic psoriasis-It can affect most of the body’s surface; characterized by widespread and fiery redness of the skin with scaly patches. Psoriasis arthritis-It is an inflammatory condition where joint pain, stiffness, and swelling is associated with psoriasis.
Knowledge center. Psoriasis is a dry, scaly skin disorder. Doctors believe that it is genetic and is caused by the immune system being mistakenly triggered, resulting in skin cells being produced too quickly. Normally, skin cells take about 21-28 days to replace themselves. However, in patients with psoriasis they take around 2-6 days. 
Psoriasis Is NOT Contagious. One of the greatest misconceptions about psoriasis is that one person can “catch it” from another. That is absolutely a myth! Psoriasis is a disease of the immune system, and is not something you can catch. It’s good to know the facts about psoriasis and to be prepared for the questions you’ll get from others.
Plaque Psoriasis. Plaque psoriasis is the most common form of the disease and appears as raised, red patches covered with a silvery white buildup of dead skin cells. These patches or plaques most often show up on the scalp, knees, elbows and lower back. They are often itchy and painful, and they can crack and bleed. Erythrodermic [eh-REETH-ro-der-mik] psoriasis is a particularly severe form of psoriasis that leads to widespread, fiery redness over most of the body. It can cause severe itching and pain, and make the skin come off in sheets. It is rare, occurring in 3 percent of people who have psoriasis during their life time.
1 Psoriasis is not contagious. 2  Psoriasis is a condition of the immune system. 3  The severity of psoriasis is based on how it affects you and how much of your body is covered. 4  About 1 in 5 people with psoriasis have moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. Psoriasis is a lifelong condition of the immune system. The exact cause is unknown; however, researchers think that family history, environment, and the immune system can all play a role in