Siesta is also common in Southern Italy (there called riposo), where museums, churches and shops close during midday so that proprietors can go home for a long lunch and perhaps a snooze during the day’s hottest hours. The main factors explaining the geographical distribution of the modern siesta are high temperatures and heavy intake of food at the midday meal. Combined, these two factors contribute to the feeling of post-lunch drowsiness.
In many countries that observe the siesta, the heat can be unbearable in the early afternoon, making a midday break at home ideal. However, siesta is also practiced in some colder regions, such as Patagonia. This could indicate that the siesta has a stronger relation with culture than with climate. The main factors explaining the geographical distribution of the modern siesta are high temperatures and heavy intake of food at the midday meal. Combined, these two factors contribute to the feeling of post-lunch drowsiness.
A siesta (. [ˈsjesta]) is a short nap taken in the early afternoon, often after the midday meal. Such a period of sleep is a common tradition in some countries, particularly those where the weather is warm. The siesta is historically common throughout the Mediterranean and Southern Europe. The main factors explaining the geographical distribution of the modern siesta are high temperatures and heavy intake of food at the midday meal. Combined, these two factors contribute to the feeling of post-lunch drowsiness.
Siesta Key is a destination for all who stay or live in the Sarasota area thanks to the wide variety of entertainment and dining options that stretch its length. 
The siesta is one of the most famous aspects of Spanish life-that dead period in late afternoon when everything shuts down in Spain, in theory so people can go to sleep. The Spanish take the siesta very seriously, even going so far as to have a Sleeping Competition in its honor. There are two periods of siesta in Spain-siesta for shops and businesses, during which time many people go to a bar or restaurant, and then siesta for the restaurants, who obviously can't rest when everyone wants to come and eat.
The Culture of the Siesta. For me, the beauty of the siesta is not the sleep itself, but the slower pace of life. A siesta is a conscious effort to take a break, to stop and reflect, and to take time for yourself. In places where siestas are common, you might find that churches, shops, or even public buildings are closed during the siesta hours. Siesta is for resting, be it physically, mentally, or otherwise.
Today, there are two periods of siesta in Spain. The siesta for shops and businesses is from about 2 p.m. until 5 p.m. The siesta for bars and restaurants is from about 4 p.m. until around 8 p.m. or 9 p.m. With modern air-conditioned offices, there is less need for a siesta to avoid the heat of midday. A siesta is a short nap taken during the early part of the afternoon after the midday meal. Siestas are a tradition in some countries, especially those where the weather is particularly warm. For example, siestas have long been associated with Spain and, due to Spanish influence, many Latin American countries