India is one of the world’s main producers of coriander, a spice that has been in use for at least 7,000 years, according to “The Encyclopedia of Healing Foods.” The fresh leaves of this spice are called cilantro; the dried seeds are sold ground or whole in supermarkets. 
Spices and herbs at a grocery shop in Goa, India. A spice is a seed, fruit, root, bark, berry, bud or vegetable substance primarily used for flavoring, coloring or preserving food. Spices are distinguished from herbs, which are parts of leafy green plants used for flavoring or as a garnish. Many spices have antimicrobial properties. This may explain why spices are more commonly used in warmer climates, which have more infectious disease, and why the use of spices is prominent in meat, which is particularly susceptible to spoiling. Small seeds, such as fennel and mustard seeds, are often used both whole and in powder form. The flavor of a spice is derived in part from compounds (volatile oils) that oxidize or evaporate when exposed to air. Grinding a spice greatly increases its surface area and so increases the rates of oxidation and evaporation.
Turmeric in a yellow colored spice forming an important part of Indian spices. Being in the ginger family, Turmeric has many medicinal properties as well. It is used in various areas like medicine, coloring, dyeing and cosmetics. It is often said Indian food doesn’t contain spices but spices consists of the food. In the past, many countries tried to invade India giving it to the lure of spice but everyone failed to do so. Spices are the first thing to be associated with the sub-continent by the world.
All Indian food is hot and spicy. This is not true! While spices are used in Indian cooking, they are not what makes food spicy. As for chillies (which add the heat to a dish), they are a matter of preference and can be easily omitted when cooking most foods. Secondly, not all Indian foods contain 10 (or even 3, 4 or 5) different spices!
Tadka translates as tempering.. It is a method widely used in Indian cuisine, in which whole or ground spices are heated in hot oil or ghee and the mixture is added to a dish. Hot fat has an amazing ability to extract and retain the essence, aroma and flavor of spices and herbs and then carry this essence with it when it is added to a dish. 1 Some of the ingredients commonly used for Indian tadkas are cumin, cinnamon, curry leaves, mustard seeds, asafoetida and red chilies. 2  The crackling of the spices or change in their color indicates that the process is complete.
Turmeric is an essential spice in Indian food, giving a rich, appetizing color. It is used in curries, fish dishes and with beans because of its digestive properties. Research show that turmeric inhibits blood clotting, reduces liver toxins, and helps the liver metabolize fats and so aids weight loss. Onion Seeds (Kalonji) - are small, irregular shaped black seeds of the plant that grows in India-Kalonji. This spice can be used fresh or dry roasted in curries, and added to vegetables, relishes, pickles and yogurts.
Like many of the other herbs and spices used in Indian cooking, the ground seeds of fenugreek. have anti-inflammatory properties and help in digestion. Fenugreek seeds are. also believed to reduce blood sugar levels and have been used as natural. supplement for use with insulin. 
India is known for its spicy food and its immense use of spices in almost every dish. Spice, known as masala, is the heart of every Indian Kitchen. Indian spices make a dish complete in every way, and it has ruled the hearts and stomachs of every men and women across the world. It is often said Indian food doesn’t contain spices but spices consists of the food. In the past, many countries tried to invade India giving it to the lure of spice but everyone failed to do so. Spices are the first thing to be associated with the sub-continent by
Spices are used in different forms-whole, chopped, ground, roasted, sauteed, fried and as topping. They blend food to extract the nutrients and bind them in a palatable form. Some spices are added at the end as a flavouring and are typically heated in a pan with ghee or cooking oil before being added to a dish. Curry is not a spice, but a term used by western people and refers to any dish in Indian cuisine that contains several spices blended together and could be with a gravy base or a dry item.
With different climates in different parts of the country, India produces a variety of spices, many of which are native to the Subcontinent, while others were imported from similar climates and have since been cultivated locally for centuries. Curry is not a spice, but a term used by western people and refers to any dish in Indian cuisine that contains several spices blended together and could be with a gravy base or a dry item.