This cycle takes 18 days, approximately three weeks. The housefly live according to the surrounding temperatures. If the climate is very hot, they live up to two weeks only. In winters, when the temperature is very low, these flies live for more than two months. They protect themselves in certain corners of buildings and houses. Usually houseflies o not travel much.
Share to:   The average lifespan of an adult housefly is approximately 15 to 25 days. Since they can complete their lifecycle in as little as seven to ten days, flies typically live … between 22 and 25 days from egg to death.   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Housefly. 14 people found this useful. The lifespan of a hover fly is similar to other flies. They can  live anywhere between 15 to 30 days and it all depends on the  climate and temperature they are in. 2 people found this useful.
Lifespan of a fly. The most common insect that we interact with in our lives are the housefly. Scientifically known as Musca domestica, the common housefly accounts for 91% of all the flies that live within the human habitation. It is for the reason that they are known as house fly. 
Life Expectancy of House Flies. Houseflies pass through four distinct stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. The life expectancy of a housefly is generally 15 to 30 days and depends upon temperature and living conditions. Flies dwelling in warm homes and laboratories develop faster and live longer than their counterparts in the wild. The housefly’s brief life cycle allows them to multiply quickly if left uncontrolled.
There are many families of flies in North America. Although the life cycle of a fly can range from days to years depending on species and conditions, all flies undergo a complete four-stage life cycle that consists of egg, larva, pupa and adult stages. The adult housefly can live up to one month in the wild. The fruit fly also lives for approximately 30 days after reaching adulthood. Flies survive longest in warmer temperatures and their ideal temperatures—between 75 and 80 degrees—are those found in most American homes
Warm summer conditions are generally optimum for the development of the house fly, and it can complete its life cycle in as little as seven to ten days. However, under suboptimal conditions the life cycle may require up to two months. http://creatures.ifas.ufl.edu/urban/flies/house_fly.htm. The complete life-cycle of a house fly takes from 10 to 21 days. On the average, 12 generations of house flies can be produced in one year. Adult females lay 120-150 tiny white eggs, usually in manure or other warm, moist, decaying organic matter.