What does Zayne mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Zayne is of English origin. The meaning of Zayne is G-d is gracious. It is also of Arabic origin, where its meaning is beautiful and Hindi origin, where its meaning is G-dly light. It consists of 5 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Zayne. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 501 in baby name popularity for boys with 558 occurrences. It ranked 8416 in popular baby names for girls with 14
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Zayne and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Zayne and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Zayne Name Meaning. The meaning of Zayne is “God is Gracious”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Zayne is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Zayne. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 501 in baby name popularity for boys with 558 occurrences. It ranked 8416 in popular baby names for girls with 14 occurrences.
Zayne /za-yne/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Hebrew derivation, and the meaning of the name Zayne is God is gracious. Zayne is an alternate form of Zane (Hebrew): possibly a form of Hebrew John. Sayne is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Zalne, Zayze, Zene. Shown below is the baby name popularity of Zayne for boys. Zayne was first listed in 2002 and reached its top rank of #479 in the U.S. in the year 2013, and is currently at #501.
Meaning of Zayne. English name. In English, the name Zayne means-derived from zane or john.The name Zayne originated as an English name. The name Zayne is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-derived from zane or john
The name Zayne has the following meaning: God is gracious. It is a male name, suitable for baby boys. Origins. The name Zayne is very likely a(n) English variant of the name Zane. See other suggested English boy baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Zane.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Zane is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Zane is: Gift from God. American Meaning: The name Zane is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Zane is: Gift from God. English Meaning: The name Zane is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Zane is: American western writer Zane Grey. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
The name Zayne is of American origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Zayne Name Meaning. The meaning of Zayne is “God is Gracious”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Zayne is an uncommon first name for males. Zayne is an equivalently unique last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Zayne for boys. Zayne was first listed in 2002 and reached its top rank of #479 in the U.S. in the year 2013, and is currently at #501.