1 Ginger can help regulate blood sugar levels. 2  High cholesterol. 3  One study found that ginger can lower blood cholesterol levels, possibly pointing to ginger as an effective treatment for heart disease. 4  Cancer. 5  In lab tests, ginger extracts were found to destroy ovarian cancer cells. 1 Pregnant women have found relief using ginger to eliminate morning sickness. 2  High blood pressure. 3  Ginger can decrease blood pressure and acts as a blood thinner. 4  Digestion. 5  Ginger promotes the production and secretion of bile from the liver and gall bladder, helping to improve your digestion of fats.
Ginger can help with glycemic control, insulin secretion and cataract protection. Ginger is the thick knotted underground stem (rhizome) of the plant Zingiber officinale that has been used for centuries in Asian cuisine and medicine. 
Canadian Customers. Ginger, the spice that puts a kick in your favorite foods, has been a go-to medicine for eons, being used to treat ailments such as colds, motion sickness, and arthritis pain. Ginger can increase the effects of blood thinners, so if you're taking these drugs, don't take ginger, advises Howard. Make sure to tell your doctor that you're adding ginger to your regimen, and monitor your blood sugar levels regularly.
Furthermore, a 2009 study in the European Journal of Pharmacology found that ginger extracts reduce blood levels of insulin by approximately 10 percent, and levels of blood sugar by approximately 35 percent. This effect was caused by ginger's interaction with insulin-inhibiting serotonin receptors. Pin It. (NaturalNews) Ginger may help increase insulin sensitivity in patients with type 2 diabetes, according to the findings of a recent study conducted by researchers from the Tabriz University of Medical Sciences in Iran and published in the International Journal of Food Sciences and Nutrition.
GINGER TEA LOWERS BLOOD SUGAR. My balanced carb and protein diet is stabilized at 25gm fat, 100gm carbs, and 100gm protein, plus 10gm omega 3's in flax and fish oil. And I eat 5 times per day, and measure my blood sugar 5 times per day. Therefore, I know immediately how any supplement effects my blood sugar. Ginger tea has been a real winner for me. This morning, I woke up with fasting blood glucose of 93, something that is in the normal range. I use ginger tea any time I need to drop my blood sugar within the next half hour. What this means is that ginger speeds up your metabolic rate, but the effect is temporary. People are all different, but for me, one cup of ginger tea is enough to drop my blood sugar significantly.
Blood-thinning medications: Ginger may increase the risk of bleeding. Talk to your doctor before taking ginger if you take blood thinners, such as warfarin (Coumadin), clopidogrel (Plavix), or aspirin. Diabetes medications: Ginger may lower blood sugar. That can raise the risk of developing hypoglycemia or low blood sugar. High blood pressure medications: Ginger may lower blood pressure, raising the risk of low blood pressure or irregular heartbeat. Ginger, the root or the rhizome, of the plant Zingiber officinale, has been a popular spice and herbal medicine for thousands of years. It has a long history of use in Asian, Indian, and Arabic herbal traditions.
Now, it looks like the spice can lower blood sugar in people with type 2 diabetes, according to a new study by researchers from Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences in Yazd, Iran. The research team studied 88 people with type 2 diabetes. Ginger can increase the effects of blood thinners, so if you're taking these drugs, don't take ginger, advises Howard. Make sure to tell your doctor that you're adding ginger to your regimen, and monitor your blood sugar levels regularly.
Obesity, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia and insulin resistance influence type 2 diabetes. Many herbal medicines are reported to effectively control diabetic symptoms. The rhizome of the ginger plant is commonly used as an alternative treatment for diabetes. Ginger may help control type 2 diabetes. 
Ginger might decrease blood sugar. Diabetes medications are also used to lower blood sugar. Taking ginger along with diabetes medications might cause your blood sugar to go too low. Monitor your blood sugar closely. The dose of your diabetes medication might need to be changed. 