Females may be included in the Selective Service and qualify for a potential draft should one be ordered by the president, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said. In doing so, it may force Congress or the president to include women or scrap the Selective Service, analysts said. “That, frankly, could be true,” Nancy Duff Campbell, co-president of the National Women’s Law Center in Washington, D.C., told Military.com.
Now that women can serve in combat they should register for the Selective Service alongside their male counterparts, Rangel said in a statement. Reinstating the draft and requiring women to register for the Selective Service would compel the American public to have a stake in the wars we fight as a nation. We must question why and how we go to war, and who decides to send our men and women into harm's way.. Charlie Rangel wants to bring back the draft and extend it to women. Rep. Charlie Rangel is adding a new twist to his long-running campaign to reinstate the military draft: Let's draft women, too.
If men are being drafted, women should be drafted as well. It's the only way to ensure equality among the sexes. There is no reason women should be seen as the weaker, frailer gender and a draft would go a long way to changing that perception in society. In wartime, if men are being drafted, women should be too. I think it is absolutely wonderful that women are in the military but, forcing women to be in the draft is not a good thing. I am a feminist and believe women can do anything a man can. But, lets be honest women have more of a responsibility when it comes to children.
Congress might say, for example, that the national emergency requires 95 percent of draftees to be fighters, or infantry. A draft bill might argue that since, say, 95 percent of infantry troops are men, then the national emergency would require 95 percent of men to be called up, and 5 percent of women, Mr. Dunlap notes. “There would be a relatively small number of women who would want to do it and be able to pass the test,” Dunlap argues. “Those that wanted to do it and could would be welcomed into the unit, because they would be extraordinary people,” he adds.
“Reinstating the draft and requiring women to register for the Selective Service would compel the American public to have a stake in the wars we fight as a nation. We must question why and how we go to war, and who decides to send our men and women into harm’s way.”. Rep. Charlie Rangel (D-NY) wants all Americans to serve their government, including women. On Friday he introduced one bill that would reinstate the draft and another that would require all women to register for Selective Service as well.
Based on our numbers for a worst-case scenario, if we had to do such a draft, it would include women or you just won't get the numbers of health care workers you needed, said Lew Brodsky, director of congressional and government affairs for the SSS. But I think culturally there might be a lot of negative feelings among political parts of the spectrum, and possibly more among men than women.. Can't Live With Them, Can't Live Without Them. Health care workers were part of the draft between 1950 and 1973 to fight the Korean and Vietnam wars.
Since not all women feel strongly about pushing equal rights in the military, she said she doubts women would jump on the idea of a draft. I think there would be a large polarization of women and would divide them even more than they are today, and that would be bad for women.. Advertisement. Advertisement. But I think culturally there might be a lot of negative feelings among political parts of the spectrum, and possibly more among men than women.. Can't Live With Them, Can't Live Without Them. Health care workers were part of the draft between 1950 and 1973 to fight the Korean and Vietnam wars.
Women and The Military Draft in America. While women officers and enlisted personnel serve with distinction in the U.S. Armed Forces, women have never been subject to Selective Service registration or a military draft in America. Women who served in the past, and those who serve today in ever increasing numbers, all volunteered for military service. The U.S. came close to drafting women during World War II, when there was a shortage of military nurses.