Seahorses are experts at camouflage. Some seahorses, like the common pygmy seahorse, have a shape, size and color that allows them to blend in perfectly with their coral habitat. Others, such as the thorny seahorse, change color to blend in with their surroundings. Dead seahorses for sale in Chinatown, Chicago. 8
The earliest known seahorse fossils are of two pipefish-like species, H. sarmaticus and H. slovenicus from the coprolitic horizon of Tunjice Hills, a middle Miocene lagerstaette lagerstätte In slovenia dating back about 13 million. Years molecular dating finds that pipefish and seahorses diverged during The Late. oligocene One common misconception about seahorses is that they mate for life. Many species of seahorses form pair bonds that last through at least the breeding season. Some species show a higher level of mate fidelity than others. However, many species readily switch mates when the opportunity arises.
There are 200 or more species in the family, 35 of which are seahorses. Seahorses have some remarkable adaptations, including hard bony armor on the body, a prehensile tail that can be used for gripping, binocular vision, excellent camouflage and an unusual form of reproduction. Reproduction: Most species of seahorses mate for life. After dawn each day, the female swims to the male, and they both change color and perform a special dance, which lasts for about 10 minutes. They separate for the rest of the day, and repeat their dance the next morning.
There are 32 recognised species of seahorse found in all water types worldwide, with the exception of the polar regions. Seahorses are generally small animals averaging around 10cm in height although this is dependent on the species. 
The pygmy seahorses comprise several species of tiny seahorse in the syngnathid family or Syngnathidae (seahorses and pipefish). Family Syngnathidae is part of order Syngnathiformes, which contains fishes with fused jaws that suck food into tubular mouths. They are found in Southeast Asia in the Coral Triangle area. 
Species. There are between 30 and 40 species of seahorses worldwide, and possibly as many sub-species. It is often difficult for scientists to identify seahorses because individuals of the same species can vary greatly in appearance. The female transfers her eggs to the male which he self fertilises in his pouch. The number of eggs can vary from 50-150 for smaller species to 1500 for larger species. They receive everything they need in the pouch from oxygen to food. Gestation time varies from 14 days to 4 weeks.
There are a number of characteristics that set this species of seahorse apart from the others. It has a maximum height of only 2.4cm (most seahorses fall within the range of 10cm to 30cm, so this species is tiny in comparison) and has three trunk rings, along with an extremely short snout. 
Seahorse is the name given to 54 species of small marine fishes in the genus Hippocampus. Hippocampus comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning horse and kampos meaning sea monster. The word seahorse is often written as two separate words (sea horse), or hyphenated (sea-horse). One common misconception about seahorses is that they mate for life. Many species of seahorses form pair bonds that last through at least the breeding season. Some species show a higher level of mate fidelity than others. However, many species readily switch mates when the opportunity arises.
A Male Seahorse Giving Birth. Seahorses have captured the interest of both scientists and the public because the male is the one who becomes pregnant and gives birth to the offspring. Curiosity about this phenomenon explains why currently more is known about their reproduction than about seahorse behavior. 
Depending upon the species of seahorse, the female will lay 25 to 1,000 eggs in the pouch on her mate’s belly. Seahorse pregnancy lasts 10 days to six weeks, depending on the species and water temperature. Small seahorses have one to two babies per pregnancy, whereas the largest species can have about 1,000. All species of baby seahorses are fully independent after birth. Once the male gives birth, he usually becomes pregnant again right away. Life span: Seahorses live from one to four years, depending on the species. Reproduction: Most species of seahorses mate for life. After dawn each day, the female swims to the male, and they both change color and perform a special dance, which lasts for about 10 minutes. They separate for the rest of the day, and repeat their dance the next morning.