grassland: major grasslands of the world. The three types of grasslands of the world are prairie, steppe, and savanna. Little of the original prairie still bears a mantle of tall grass. Instead, farmers raise a variety of crops on its rich soil. The moister portions of the steppe are cultivated, and the rest is valuable pasture. 
Grasslands are characterized as lands dominated by grasses rather than large shrubs or trees. In the Miocene and Pliocene Epochs, which spanned a period of about 25 million years, mountains rose in western North America and created a continental climate favorable to grasslands. Steppes are dry areas of grassland with hot summers and cold winters. They receive 25.4-50.8 cm (10-20 inches) of rainfall a year. Steppes occur in the interiors of North America and Europe. Plants growing in steppes are usually greater than 1 foot tall.
The Grassland Biomes: There are two main types of grassland biomes: the Savanna Grasslands and the Temperate Grasslands. The Tundra Biomes: There are two major tundra biomes—The Artic Tundra and the Alpine Tundra. Biomes play a crucial role in sustaining life on earth. 
There are two different kinds of grasslands: tropical and temperate. Grasslands in the southern hemisphere tend to get more precipitation than those in the northern hemisphere. Some grasses grow more than 7 feet (2 meters), and have roots extending several feet into the soil. 
Grasslands are found in most ecoregions of the Earth. For example, there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications (subdivisions) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome (' ecosystem '), which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth's surface. 
PLANTS. There are two major types of plants; grasses and shrubs. Some short grasses are buffalo grass, alfalfa, ragweed, and blue grass. Some tall grasses are big blue stem, iron weed, and wheat grass. Some major locations of grasslands are the Great Plains of North America, Pampa of Argentina, fields of southern Africa, parts of Hungary, Northeastern China, USSR, Siberia, the Serengeti Plains of Africa, South America, and Australia.
As the name suggests, these are massive areas dominated by one or a few species of grass, with a few. sparsely distributed trees. There are two main types of grassland biomes: the Savanna Grasslands and the Temperate Grasslands. One major savanna is located in Africa, and takes up more than a third of. the continents land area. Others can be found in India, South America and Australia. 
A Grassland is a is a type of Habitat or Biome which is dominated by Grasses and other Herbaceous (non-woody) Flowering Plants and a variety of scattered Trees and Bushes. Grasslands occur in areas where there is not enough regular rainfall to support the growth of a Forest, but not so little as to form a Desert. 
I n the United States and Canada there are three types of grasslands (or prairies): Tall Grass Prairie The Tall Grass Prairie lies mainly in the eastern portion of the Midwest. The grasses here often grow to be five feet tall. The annual rain totals here approach 30 inches. Mixed Grass Prairie The Mixed Grass Prairie lies mainly in the middle portion of the Midwest. The grasses here often grow to be two and three feet tall. Typically, there are 15 to 25 inches of rain per year.
There are two main kinds of grasslands: tropical and temperate. Grasslands in the south tend to get more rain than in the north. Some grasses grow more than 7 feet, and have roots going several feet into the ground.Tropical grasslandsTropical grasslands are warm all the time, but usually have a dry and a rainy season.