1) In electronics, a circuit is a path between two or more points along which an electrical current can be carried. (A circuit breaker is a device that interrupts the path when necessary to protect other devices attached to the circuit-for example, in case of a power surge.). 2) In telecommunications, a circuit is a discrete (specific) path between two or more points along which signal s
The simplest form of an electrical circuit is when an energy source (such as a battery) is connected to a load (such as a light bulb or a resistor). The connections must be ma … de in such a way as to allow the energy to flow from the source, through the load and back into the source to form a loop. When the pump is activated the water flows from the bucket, through the pump, and back to the bucket. Anything that interferes with the flow of water shuts off the water flow, called current in electrical circuits. ==== A simple circuit is a battery and a resistor.
A simple circuit is a basic, simple and complete path through which electricity can flow. 7 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Dave Woodruff. 28,639 Contributions. Passion, is the electrical trade. Downfall, is being a perfectionist. When the pump is activated the water flows from the bucket, through the pump, and back to the bucket. Anything that interferes with the flow of water shuts off the water flow, called current in electrical circuits. ==== A simple circuit is a battery and a resistor.
Confidence votes 193. The simplest form of an electrical circuit is when an energy source (such as a battery) is connected to a load (such as a light bulb or a resistor). The connections must be made in such a way as to allow the energy to flow from the source, through the load and back into the source to form a loop. 
A simple circuit is a circuit containing one voltage or current source in series with, or in parallel with, one load. Since it is a simple circuit, both definitions, series and parallel, are equivalent and mean the same thing. When the pump is activated the water flows from the bucket, through the pump, and back to the bucket. Anything that interferes with the flow of water shuts off the water flow, called current in electrical circuits. ==== A simple circuit is a battery and a resistor.
This circuit has a power source, a complete path for electrons to flow, and a resistor as the load. An electric circuit is a path in which electrons from a voltage or current source flow. Electric current flows in a closed path called an electric circuit. The point where those electrons enter an electrical circuit is called the source of electrons. The point where the electrons leave an electrical circuit is called the return or earth ground. 
1. A closed path through which an electric current flows or may flow. ♦ Circuits in which a power source is connected to two or more components (such as light bulbs), one after the other, are called series circuits. If the circuit is broken, none of the components receives a current.
An integrated circuit, or IC, is small chip that can function as an amplifier, oscillator, timer, microprocessor, or even computer memory. An IC is a small wafer, usually made of silicon, that can hold anywhere from hundreds to millions of transistors, resistors, and capacitors. 
Circuit, Simple. A circuit containing a single generator, and single receiver of any kind, such as a motor or sounder, with a single connecting conductor. It is also used to indicate arrangement in multiple arc, but not generally, or with approval.
A simple circuit requires three (3) things: 1  A source of electrical potential difference or voltage. 2  A conductive path which would allow for the movement of charges. 3  An electrical resistance (resistor) which is loosely defined as any object that uses electricity to do work. A simple circuit contains the minimum things needed to have a functioning electric circuit. A simple circuit requires three (3) things: 1  A source of electrical potential difference or voltage. ( 2 typically a battery or electrical outlet).