Carrier Pigeons are pigeons that are used to carry a message from one place to another. Carrier pigeons were used by the U.S. military during World War I, World War II and the Korean War. Homing Pigeons are a slate blue color. Using pigeons to carry messages is generally called pigeon post.. Most homing or racing type varieties can be used to carry messages. There is no specific breed actually called carrier pigeon, so a carrier pigeon is any variety that is
Carrier pigeons were birds used to carry messages before the invention of modern communication devices, beginning as early as the 15th century. Some species of pigeons will instinctively fly back to their homes even if released far away, hence the name homing pigeons which are still used as racing pigeons.. carrier pigeons are trained to deliver messages, they are trained so they know how to get to their destination. it is me understanding that carrier pigeons were used in world … war 1 for delivering messages.
During the First and Second World Wars, carrier pigeons were used to transport messages back to their home coop behind the lines. When they landed, wires in the coop would sound a bell or buzzer and a soldier of the Signal Corps would know a message had arrived. Before the advent of radio, carrier pigeons were frequently used on the battlefield as a means for a mobile force to communicate with a stationary headquarters. In the 6th century BC, Cyrus, king of Persia, used carrier pigeons to communicate with various parts of his empire.
Their skills made them used to carry messages as carrier pigeon or messenger pigeons. They have been used in many places around the world. They are usually referred as  pigeon post  or  war pigeon  during wars. White homing pigeons are used in release dove ceremonies at weddings, funerals, and some sporting events. With training, pigeons can carry up to 75 g (2.5 oz) on their backs. The German apothecary Julius Neubronner used carrier pigeons to deliver urgent medication.
When used as carrier pigeons in pigeon post a message is written on thin light paper and rolled into a small tube attached to the bird's leg. Pigeons can only go back to one mentally marked point that they have identified as their home. White homing pigeons are used in release dove ceremonies at weddings, funerals, and some sporting events. With training, pigeons can carry up to 75 g (2.5 oz) on their backs. The German apothecary Julius Neubronner used carrier pigeons to deliver urgent medication.
In all, it is estimated that more than 100,000 carrier pigeons were used by both sides during the war. They are recorded as having a 95% success rate in navigating successfully to their intended destination. Carrier Pigeons Used During World War I. Feb 24, 2014 | World War I. Carrier Pigeons, used to carry communications during World War I, proved to be instrumental in the war.
Pigeons have long played an important role in war. Due to their homing ability, speed, and altitude, they were often used as military messengers. Carrier pigeons of the Racing Homer breed were used to carry messages in World War I and World War II, and 32 such pigeons were presented with the Dickin Medal. They ceased being used as of 1957. Before the advent of radio, carrier pigeons were frequently used on the battlefield as a means for a mobile force to communicate with a stationary headquarters. In the 6th century BC, Cyrus, king of Persia, used carrier pigeons to communicate with various parts of his empire.
Today, carrier pigeons are used regularly only in remote areas of countries such as India. In the industrialized world, their use is whimsical or idiosyncratic: a 1998 attempt to smuggle diamonds from a South African mine by pigeon, or an Internet connection achieved last May by carrier pigeons. 
The homing pigeon is a variety of domestic pigeon (Columba livia domestica) derived from the rock pigeon, selectively bred to find its way home over extremely long distances. The wild rock pigeon has an innate homing ability, meaning that it will generally return to its nest and mate. White homing pigeons are used in release dove ceremonies at weddings, funerals, and some sporting events. With training, pigeons can carry up to 75 g (2.5 oz) on their backs. The German apothecary Julius Neubronner used carrier pigeons to deliver urgent medication.