Forty years after the infamous fugitive known as D.B. Cooper parachuted out of the plane over Washington state, never to be seen again, the FBI has uncovered a new suspect it is calling the most promising lead to date in the nation's only unsolved commercial airplane hijacking. When the plane landed in Seattle, the suspect, known only as Dan Cooper or D.B. Cooper, allowed the passengers and two flight attendants off the plane, and the officials handed over the money, in $20 bills, and the parachutes.
Cooper told the captain that in return for $200,000 and four parachutes, he would allow 36 people to leave the plane when it landed. The FBI agreed to the swap and the plane took off again under Cooper's orders to fly towards Mexico at an altitude of under 10,000 feet. Somewhere over the lower Cascade mountains in southwestern Washington, Cooper jumped out of the plane with a parachute strapped to his back. All that is left of DB Cooper: Parachute used by mystery hijacker to escape aircraft after stealing $200,000 goes on display for the first time.
Cooper is shown in these FBI sketches 40 years after he bailed out of a U.S. jetliner in mid-air and vanished with $200,000 in cash. The FBI is investigating whether this skull being held by Assistant State Medical Examiner Larry Lewman in 1975, found by Forest Service employees in Oregon, is Cooper's. All that is left of DB Cooper: Parachute used by mystery hijacker to escape aircraft after stealing $200,000 goes on display for the first time.
The tie, the parachute he discarded, his boarding pass with the words DAN COOPER written in red ink and a few deteriorated bills from the ransom money found in 1980 are the only physical pieces of evidence the FBI's Seattle office has. When the plane landed in Seattle, the suspect, known only as Dan Cooper or D.B. Cooper, allowed the passengers and two flight attendants off the plane, and the officials handed over the money, in $20 bills, and the parachutes.
DB Cooper parachute packer found murdered (+video). DB Cooper parachute packer: Earl Cossey packed the parachute for the famous fugitive DB Cooper. Cossey was found dead Friday, and police suspect he was murdered. The one Cooper apparently used was a military-issue NB6, nylon parachute with a conical canopy. Over the decades, as parachutes were sometimes discovered in the area of Cooper's jump, the FBI sought Cossey's help in identifying them.
View. comments. The FBI today revealed that it believes it has America's most elusive fugitive finally in its sights 40 years after famed hijacker DB Cooper disappeared when he jumped out of a plane over Washington. Artists sketches of America's most elusive fugitive DB Cooper who hijacked a jet and extorted $200,000 from the FBI before escaping by parachute in 1971. Agents believe he may have died a decade ago. In Seattle, he demanded and got $200,000 and four parachutes and demanded to be flown to Mexico.
When the plane landed with the stairs down, they found the two remaining parachutes and on the seat Cooper was sitting in, a black tie. Jets, a helicopter and a C-130 aircraft had been scrambled from the closest air force base to follow Cooper's plane. Decades passed, D.B. Cooper became famous in book, movie and song. In 2007, Special Agent Larry Carr took on his favorite case with the restriction not to waste government time or money pursuing it.
All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. SEATTLE — The FBI is analyzing a torn, tangled parachute found buried by children in southwest Washington to determine whether it might have been used by famed plane hijacker D.B. Cooper, the agency said Tuesday. If it is Cooper's parachute, that will solve one mystery — where he apparently landed — but it will raise another, Carr said. In 1980, a family on a picnic found $5,880 of Cooper's money in a bag on a Columbia River beach, near Vancouver.
The suspect purchased his airline ticket using the alias Dan Cooper, but because of a news media miscommunication he became known in popular lore as D. B. Cooper. The FBI also coordinated an aerial search, using fixed-wing aircraft and helicopters from the Oregon Army National Guard, along the entire flight path (known as Victor 23 in standard aviation terminology but Vector 23 in most Cooper literature) from Seattle to Reno.
D.B. Cooper: Everything you need to know in 5 minutes. Brief Summary of D.B. Cooper Case in 20 Sentences. One afternoon a day before Thanksgiving in 1971, a guy calling himself Dan Cooper (the media mistakenly called him D.B. Cooper) boarded Northwest Airlines flight # 305 in Portland bound for Seattle. He was wearing a dark suit and a black tie and was described as a business-executive type. Decades passed, D.B. Cooper became famous in book, movie and song. In 2007, Special Agent Larry Carr took on his favorite case with the restriction not to waste government time or money pursuing it.