Amethyst-Healing & Psychic Uses. Amethyst has been in use for thousands of years in magic, healing and psychic empowerment. Its violet color makes this one of the most sought after variety of quartz. Enlarge Amethyst used in healing: Amethyst is universally accepted as the healing crystal, and has been since antiquity. There are a number of ways to incorporate it into a healing practice. A crystal point, ball or pyramid in the room.
The Mineral amethyst. Amethyst is a well known mineral and gemstone. It is the purple variety of the mineral Quartz, and its most valuable and prized variety. Its name derives from the Greek amethystos, which means not drunken, as Amethyst in antiquity was thought to ward off drunkenness. When used as a gemstone, Amethyst is often heat treated to deepen the color, or to transform it into Citrine. Some varieties may also change to a light green color, which is given the trade name Prasiolite, or Green Amethyst, as it is more commonly known in the gem trade.
In the spiritual world, Amethyst provided a connection to the Divine. To the Hebrews, it was Ahlamah, the ninth stone in the breastplate of the High Priest, engraved with the tribe of Dan, as well as the twelfth foundation stone for the New Jerusalem. Large clusters of Amethyst are ideal for meditation altars or as concentration objects to train the mind to be centered and calm while awareness is focused on the objective world. [Raphaell, 81]. Amethyst may be used to occupy the North-East point on a crystal medicine wheel, used for healing and balancing one’s life.
Structure [edit]. Amethyst is a purple variety of quartz (SiO 2) and owes its violet color to irradiation, iron impurities (in some cases in conjunction with transition element impurities), and the presence of trace elements, which result in complex crystal lattice substitutions.
The Uses of Amethyst. Amethyst is a gemstone that is crystallized quartz. Amethyst is known throughout the world for its beauty. This crystalline gemstone usually comes in beautiful colors such as violet and purple. It is also important to note that Citrine is created from heat treated Amethyst, Citrine’s color is yellow orange. Amethyst is a type of quartz and is perfect for ornamental jewelry. Amethyst has been known to man for millennia and was popular with the Ancient Greeks, as well as the Ancient Egyptians. Amethyst has a wonderful history.
Amethyst is the most valuable of the quartz minerals. Amethyst is only used for ornamental jewelry, due to its beauty, hardness and attraction, however it has been coveted for many reasons going back to legends and folklore. Amethyst is a type of quartz and is perfect for ornamental jewelry. Amethyst has been known to man for millennia and was popular with the Ancient Greeks, as well as the Ancient Egyptians. Amethyst has a wonderful history.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Amethyst (disambiguation) . Amethyst is a violet variety of quartz often used in jewelry. The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. drunkenness Amethyst is a purple variety of quartz (SiO 2) and owes its violet color to irradiation, iron impurities (in some cases in conjunction with transition element impurities), and the presence of trace elements, which result in complex crystal lattice substitutions.
Amethyst is usually used for adornment of decorative objects or in jewelry. Some believe the natural amethyst gemstone has healing powers which stems from the ancient practice … of carving cups or decorating cups with amethysts to avoid drunkenness. Amethyst is Silicon dioxide (SiO2) .   When the word amethyst is used the only color that comes to one's mind is purple. Its color is due the presence of iron mineral in it … . The color may range from a faint mauve to a glorious purple.
Amethyst is very well known -- as from the ancients -- as a sobriety stone. It has been used for millenia to prevent drunkenness, and is used to assist in getting rid of addictions to alcohol, drugs, smoking, etc, and destructive compulsive behaviors of all kinds. CONTINUED ON Amethyst P2. Amethyst also protects against psychic attacks, especially during spiritual work. Amethyst is not only a psychic protection stone, but is also used to protect one from thieves, and to protects travelers. Emotionally, amethyst is used in crystal healing to help heal personal losses and grief, bringing one gently past.