This change only applies to users of our cloud storage service. Pogoplug devices are unaffected, and you can continue to use your Pogoplug device normally. If you have a free account, as of June 15th, 2015 you will be locked out of your account and you will not be able to access your files.
Typically when a reporter or even customer asks you what happens if you go out of business, your gut reaction is to get a little bit defensive.
Automatic Backup. Employees often forget or get too busy to back up. Pogoplug Business Backup is the ultimate set it and forget it backup tool. Install Pogoplug Backup Software and click a button once, and all your files will be automatically and continuously backed up to the cloud forever.
6. That’s it! The software will show you the status of your download as you restore. You can also use my.pogoplug.com or our free mobile apps to individually download files or folders, but we recommend using the backup software for downloading large files or folders, or downloading the entire contents of your account.
That said, our current economy is, in some ways, suffering because a lot of dreamers didn’t prepare for the possibility of failure. When we started thinking about our company from a customer’s standpoint, we agreed that something needed to be done to ensure Pogoplug would be useful with or without our support.
So, to all of those people that asked (and even those who wondered but didn’t voice it), “What happens if Pogoplug goes out of business?” we now have an answer: we empower the community and our customers to be self-sufficient. We have created an Escrow Account that holds the source code for Pogoplug’s back-end services. In the unlikely event of our bankruptcy, our source code will be published on SourceForge for the community to manage how they see fit.
Since 2007, Pogoplug has protected tens of millions of consumers and business customers worldwide. Back up your photos and files using the same storage trusted by Best Buy, Sprint, Toshiba, Yahoo! Japan, Office Depot and more. Sign up for a free account to enjoy unlimited storage and automatic backup for: