Pulmonary circulation is the movement of blood from the heart, to the lungs, and back to the heart again. Deoxygenated blood leaves the heart, goes to the lungs, and then re-enters the heart; Deoxygenated blood leaves through the right ventricle through the pulmonary artery. 
The right atrium pumps blood through the right atrioventricular (tricuspid) valve to the right ventricle. From the right ventricle, blood flows through the pulmonary valve to the lungs via the pulmonary arteries (deoxygenated blood). In the lungs the blood becomes more red in color as it is oxygenated. Blood returns to the heart via the pulmonary veins (oxygenated blood) to the left atrium. The aortic valve separates the left ventricle from the aorta, while the pulmonary valve separates the right ventricle from the pulmonary artery. As the ventricles contract, ventricular pressure exceeds arterial pressure, the semilunar valves open and blood is pumped into the major arteries.
The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the right ventricle to the lungs. The blood here passes through capillaries adjacent to alveoli and becomes oxygenated as part of the process of respiration. In contrast to the pulmonary arteries, the bronchial arteries supply nutrition to the lungs themselves. In the human heart, the pulmonary trunk (pulmonary artery or main pulmonary artery) begins at the base of the right ventricle. It is short and wide—approximately 5 centimetres (2.0 in) in length and 3 centimetres (1.2 in) in diameter.
Right ventricle sends blood needing oxygen to the lungs. The blood needing oxygen is pumped out of the right ventricle, through the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery then divides into the right and left pulmonary arteries, carrying blood to the right and left lungs. In the lungs the blood gives up its carbon dioxide and picks up oxygen. The purpose of your heart is to pump blood to the organs and tissues of your body that need the oxygen and nutrients it carries. Oxygen-rich blood is pumped out of the left side of your heart (shown on the right in the diagram) into the arteries to these tissues and organs.
The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs. It is one of the only arteries (other than the umbilical arteries in the fetus) that carries deoxygenated blood. In the human heart, the pulmonary trunk (pulmonary artery or main pulmonary artery) begins at the base of the right ventricle. It is short and wide—approximately 5 centimetres (2.0 in) in length and 3 centimetres (1.2 in) in diameter.
Pulmonary hypertension is a rare lung disorder in which the arteries that carry blood from the heart to the lungs become narrowed, making it difficult for blood to flow through the vessels. As a result, the blood pressure in these arteries -- called pulmonary arteries -- rises far above normal levels. 
From there, it leaves the lungs and enters the left side of the heart to carry the oxygen-rich blood to the body again. The numbers in pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary blood pressure is normally a lot lower than systemic blood pressure. Normal pulmonary-artery pressure is about 14 mm Hg at rest. If the pressure in the pulmonary artery is greater than 25 mm Hg at rest and 30 mm Hg during exercise, it is abnormally high and is called pulmonary hypertension. It's measured with a traditional arm cuff. Pulmonary hypertension (or PHT) is high blood pressure that occurs in the arteries in the lungs. It is a different measurement altogether from systemic blood pressure. It reflects the pressure the heart must exert to pump blood from the heart through the arteries of
From the right ventricle, the blood is pumped through the pulmonary semilunar valve into the pulmonary trunk. The pulmonary trunk carries blood to the lungs where it releases carbon dioxide and absorbs oxygen. The blood in the lungs returns to the heart through the pulmonary veins. 
When the right atrium contracts, blood flows through a valve into the heart's right ventricle. When the right ventricle contracts, blood is pumped through a valve into the pulmonary artery and into the lungs where it picks up oxygen. It works this way for an important reason. Blood returning from the body is poor in oxygen. It has to be full of oxygen before returning to the body. 