Amlodipine (as besylate, mesylate or maleate) is a medication used to lower blood pressure and prevent chest pain. It belongs to a group of medications known as dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blockers. By widening of blood vessels it lowers blood pressure. 
Amlodipine is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat high blood pressure and chest pain (angina). Amlodipine is in a class of medications called calcium channel blockers. It lowers blood pressure by relaxing the blood vessels so the heart does not have to pump as hard. 
Uses. Amlodipine is used with or without other medications to treat high blood pressure. Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Amlodipine belongs to a class of drugs known as calcium channel blockers. It works by relaxing blood vessels so blood can flow more easily. Amlodipine is also used to prevent certain types of chest pain (angina).
BRAND NAME: Norvasc. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Amlodipine belongs to a class of medications called calcium channel blockers (CCBs). These medications block the transport of calcium into the smooth muscle cells lining the arteries of the heart (coronary arteries) and other arteries of the body. 
Amlodipine is in a group of drugs called calcium channel blockers. Amlodipine relaxes (widens) blood vessels and improves blood flow. Amlodipine is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) or chest pain (angina) and other conditions caused by coronary artery disease. This medication is for use in adults and children who are at least 6 years old.
Norvasc is a drug licensed to treat high blood pressure, angina, and coronary artery disease. Norvasc ® (amlodipine besylate) is a prescription medication used to treat various conditions of the heart and blood vessels. 
Norvasc belongs to a class of drugs called calcium channel blockers, which block the flow of calcium into heart muscles and the muscles along the walls of blood vessels. Because the contraction of these muscles depends on calcium, Norvasc relaxes and widens blood vessels, thereby improving blood flow. Norvasc is also used to treat coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients without heart failure, and certain types of angina (chest pain) from CAD, such as activity-and stress-induced angina (chronic stable angina), and angina that occurs at rest (Prinzmetal’s angina).
Uses For Norvasc. Amlodipine is used alone or together with other medicines to treat angina (chest pain) and high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly. Amlodipine is a calcium channel blocker. It affects the movement of calcium into the cells of the heart and blood vessels. As a result, amlodipine relaxes blood vessels and increases the supply of blood and oxygen to the heart while reducing its workload.
A: Norvasc (amlodipine) is a medication used to treat high blood pressure. Studies show that some of the common side effects are dizziness, headache, and rarely fainting as a result of low blood pressure. Some studies suggest that taking at bedtime can alleviate fainting. Norvasc is also used to treat coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients without heart failure, and certain types of angina (chest pain) from CAD, such as activity-and stress-induced angina (chronic stable angina), and angina that occurs at rest (Prinzmetal’s angina).
USES: Amlodipine is used with or without other medications to treat high blood pressure. Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Amlodipine belongs to a class of drugs known as calcium channel blockers. 