We have seen mountain pine beetles infest trees down to two inches diameter at breast height. Many municipalities are seeing pine beetles infest other conifer species such as spruce and fir as well, but the trees being killed in these attacks are from the blue stain fungus that is introduced along with the beetle. Mountain pine beetles have a one-year life cycle that begins with the flying and infesting of new trees between early July and late September. Beetles bore into a tree, lay their eggs under the bark, and then die. The eggs hatch into larva in late fall and begin feeding inside the tree.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The mountain pine beetle Dendroctonus ponderosae, is a species of bark beetle native to the forests of western North America from Mexico to central British Columbia. It has a hard black exoskeleton, and measures approximately 5 mm, about the size of a grain of rice. In western North America, the current outbreak of the mountain pine beetle and its microbial associates has destroyed wide areas of lodgepole pine forest, including more than 16 million of the 55 million hectares of forest in British Columbia.
As the blue stain fungi grows rapidly into the phloem of the tree, it “clogs” the tubes that bring moisture up into the tree, and in so doing also disrupts the tree's ability to produce sap or “pitch”. This means the tree can’t defend itself against mountain pine beetle by catching the beetle in the sap. Fungi are in a classification of their own. They are not plants, as they lack chlorophyll, and therefore do not manufacture their own food. They feed on dead organic matter, soil, feces and other living things. They are very important to the ecology of mountain park forests.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The blue stain fungus, Grosmannia clavigera, is a species of sac fungus. It spreads to lodgepole pine, ponderosa pine, Douglas-fir, and whitebark pine trees from the body and a special structure in the heads of mountain pine beetles. The 33 Mb genome of this fungus was sequenced in 2009. The blue stain fungus spores germinate and produce a thread like mass (mycelium) that colonizes the phloem and sapwood. Fungal spores are usually blown away by wind but blue-stain spores are “sticky”.
Live pine beetles under the bark of an infested tree. Blue Stain: Pine beetles introduce a fungus as they bore into the tree that stains the sapwood a blue or grey color. The blue fungus stain from a pine beetle infestation. 
Identification & Biology. The mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae) is a small insect that lives most of its life in the inner bark of pine trees. The adult beetles are black to rusty brown and 1/4 inch in length. They fly from infested trees to new host trees in late June or July. The pine engraver beetle often first attacks the tops of the trees while mountain pine beetle attacks are along the lower 3/4 of the tree. Mountain pine beetle attacks generally result in the formation of pitch tubes while pitch tubes are rare with pine engraver beetle attacks.
Mountain pine beetles can damage whole regions of forest. Mountain pine beetles affect pine trees by laying eggs under the bark. The beetles introduce blue stain fungus into the sapwood that prevents the tree from repelling and killing the attacking beetles with tree pitch flow. In western North America, the current outbreak of the mountain pine beetle and its microbial associates has destroyed wide areas of lodgepole pine forest, including more than 16 million of the 55 million hectares of forest in British Columbia.