All white blood cells (WBC) are known as leukocytes. Leukocytes are different from other cells of the body in that they are not tightly associated with a particular organ or tissue; thus, they function similar to independent, single-cell organisms. 1 The identification and removal of foreign substances present in organs, tissues, the blood and lymph, by specialised white blood cells. 2  Activation of the adaptive immune system through a process known as antigen presentation. 3  Acting as a physical and chemical barrier to infectious agents.
Purpose. Leukocytes are white blood cells, the body's defense mechanism against invaders such as infection and disease. When foreign materials enter the body, white blood cells attack it by destroying infectious agents or producing antibodies. Save. Leukocytes are a type of white blood cell. When urine is positive for leukocytes, there are leukocytes in the urine. White blood cells in urine are typically a sign of infection. A urinalysis positive for leukoctyes is most commonly the result of a urinary tract infection.
Although your white blood cells account for only about 1 percent of your blood, their impact is significant. White blood cells, also called leukocytes, are essential for good health and protection against illness and disease. Think of white blood cells as your immunity cells. Among your white blood cells are: Monocytes. They have a longer lifespan than many white blood cells and help to break down bacteria. Lymphocytes. They create antibodies to defend against bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful invaders. Neutrophils. They kill and digest bacteria and fungi.
Viruses, bacteria, and other foreign cells are recognized as being different from your own cells and are attacked by your immune system. Sometimes, one of your own cells changes, or mutates, giving the cell the ability to multiply continuously. Such mutations often are the cause of cancer. Your blood contains many different types of cells. Red blood cells carry oxygen to all the parts of your body. Platelets stop bleeding by helping with blood clotting. White blood cells, known as leukocytes (LUKE-oh-sites), make up the immune system portion of the blood.
Leukocytes (White Blood Cells). The leukocytes, or white blood cells, defend the body against infecting organisms and foreign agents, both in the tissues and in the bloodstream itself (see immunity). Human blood contains about 5,000 to 10,000 leukocytes per cubic millimeter; the number increases in the presence of infection. This overproduction suppresses the production of normal blood cells. Conversely, a sharp decrease in the number of leukocytes (leukopenia) strips the blood of its defense against infection and is an equally serious condition.
Granulocytes. The leukocytes, or white blood cells, defend the body against infecting organisms and foreign agents, both in the tissues and in the bloodstream itself (see immunity). Human blood contains about 5,000 to 10,000 leukocytes per cubic millimeter; the number increases in the presence of infection. This overproduction suppresses the production of normal blood cells. Conversely, a sharp decrease in the number of leukocytes (leukopenia) strips the blood of its defense against infection and is an equally serious condition.
For the album by the band The White Stripes, see White Blood Cells (album) . White blood cells (WBCs), also called leukocytes or leucocytes, are the cells of the immune system that are involved in protecting the body against both infectious disease and foreign invaders. All leukocytes are produced and derived from a multipotent cell in the bone marrow known as a hematopoietic stem cell. Monocytes and neutrophils are phagocytic. The number of leukocytes in the blood is often an indicator of disease, and thus the WBC count is an important subset of the complete blood count. The normal white cell count is usually between 4 and 11 × 10 9 /L. In the US this is usually expressed as 4,000–11,000 white blood cells per microliter of blood