Answer by ADR0760. Confidence votes 2.5K. BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS/ BODILY FLUIDS IN A NORMAL SITUATION, when (healthy) urine comes out of your body, it is sterile. Urine, for the purpose of spreading B B Pathogens, is not considered a bodily fluid like blood, semen and vaginal secretions. HOWEVER, in cases of illness or disease where there is blood in the urine, I imagine it could spread a B B Pathogen.
Facilities are not required to collect data for exposures that involve intact skin or exposures to body fluids that do not carry a risk of bloodborne pathogen transmission (e.g., feces, nasal secretions, saliva, sputum, sweat, tears, urine and vomitus) unless these are visibly contaminated with blood.
This training provides an annual review of bloodborne pathogen exposure control principles, practices, and requirements as required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Bloodborne Pathogens Standard.
A bloodborne pathogen is a disease causing agent in the blood such as a virus (HIV, HBV, or Herpes) or bacteria (TB, Gonorrhea). Corrected: Bloodborne Pathogens means, disease … causing organisms transmitted by blood and other body fluids. Most common bloodborne pathogens are Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C & HIV.
Exposure to urine, feces, vomitus, or sputum is not considered a potential bloodborne pathogens exposure unless the fluid is visibly contaminated with blood. Follow your employer’s procedures for cleaning these fluids.
If you encounter any of the above, report it to your supervisor. 1  Bloodborne pathogens are bacteria and viruses that are transmitted by contact with human blood and other potentially infectious materials (such as semen, vaginal secretions) from an infected person.
1 Bloodborne pathogens are bacteria and viruses that are transmitted by contact with human blood and other potentially infectious materials (such as semen, vaginal secretions) from an infected person. 2  Urine, feces, vomitus, and saliva are not known to transmit bloodborne pathogens unless they contain visible blood.