The above are the major causes of headache in kidney disease. If the above conditions can be controlled, the headache will be relieved. However, as the underlying cause of headache in kidney disease is kidney impairment, the primary treatment goal is to treat kidney disease itself and restore the impaired kidneys. 1  Tag: CKD symptoms. 2  Previous： Restless Leg Syndrome in Chronic Kidney Disease. 3  Next： Symptoms of Stage 3 CKD And Recommended Diet.
Why Patients with Kidney Disease Have Headache. Headache is a common sign of kidney disease. Therefore, you should not neglect unexplained headache and delay the treatment. The condition in kidney disease is mainly attributable to the following causes. 1. Renal hypertension.
Patients with chronic kidney failure typically need to take a large number of medications. This is when the kidneys are functioning at less than 10% - 15% of normal capacity. Measures used so far-diet, medications and treatments controlling underlying causes-are no longer enough.
In rare cases, high blood pressure can cause headaches. Kidney disease also does not have symptoms in the early stages. A person may have swelling called edema, which happens when the kidneys cannot get rid of extra fluid and salt. Edema can occur in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face.
Headaches Is A Symptom Of Kidney Failure. Many kidney failure patients complain headache and sometimes it can become so serious that patients’ normal life and work will be severely affected. Headache is one common symptom of kidney failure and it can be caused by fluctuating high blood pressure, poor sleep, etc. Among dialysis patients, it is also very common.
High blood pressure. Nearly all kidney failure patients will develop high blood pressure since their kidneys can not function well to regulate blood pressure. If high blood pressure is poorly controlled, it can cause headache. Insomnia and poor sleep quality. The sleep quality of kidney failure patients will be severely affected.