So one person may in fact have their name recorded with multiple spellings. Additionally, when the name was anglicized, it was probably a phonetic rendering of the original spelling. Given these thoughts, don t despair if we don t have your name spelled exactly as you spell it today. Your job is to be sure you spell your name correctly at checkout and you MUST indicate Country of Origin.
McGowan is a Scottish and Irish Patronymic name from the Anglicized form of Gaelic Mac Gobhann (Scottish) and Mac Gabhann (Irish) both from occupational nicknames for the village smith. It is also occasionally derived in Scotland from Mac Owein, a patronymic form of the given name Owen or Ewen. Coupar, when not a variant of Cooper, is a Scottish Place name from Cupar in Fife, likely of Pictish origin, with an unknown meaning. There are also locations Cuper Angus, and Cupar Maculty, but no known surnames are derived from these.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Szczepanik families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Szczepanik ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Szczepanik ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.
Coat of Arms / Family CrestThis is a list of surnames from the 2002 Census. We have a Coat of Arms / Family Crest for 98% of these surnames. Place your order today. FIND YOUR NAME HERE. We have the largest and best quality family crests \ family coat of arms products on the web. Our Family Crests are offered at the most reasonable prices on the web. If you can find a Coat of Arms at a lower price, please let us know, so we can adjust our prices lower.
If your name is on this list, even if it is not spelled exactly as you spell it today, we probably have your specific family history. Remember, in medieval times most people were illiterate. Given these thoughts, don t despair if we don t have your name spelled exactly as you spell it today. Your job is to be sure you spell your name correctly at checkout and you MUST indicate Country of Origin.
Olzack: a variation of the Polish place name Olszewski, so-named from the Polish  olcha, olsza = alder + ew = a possessive suffix + -ski = suffix of local surnames, to describe the man who lived by the alder, or who was from the settlement near the alder called by that name. Coupar, when not a variant of Cooper, is a Scottish Place name from Cupar in Fife, likely of Pictish origin, with an unknown meaning. There are also locations Cuper Angus, and Cupar Maculty, but no known surnames are derived from these.
Ferguson is a Scottish patronymic name, derived from the Scottish and Irish surname Fergus, from the Gaelic given name Fearghus. The Gaelic elements fear = man + gus = vigor, force are the elements of Fearghus. Variations are Ferris, Farris, Fergie (diminutive), Ferguson, Fergyson (patronymics). Coupar, when not a variant of Cooper, is a Scottish Place name from Cupar in Fife, likely of Pictish origin, with an unknown meaning. There are also locations Cuper Angus, and Cupar Maculty, but no known surnames are derived from these.
Neil is a medieval given name which means Champion and evolved into an Irish, Scottish, and English surname. It is derived from the given name of Irish origin -- Niall -- and was brought to England by the Scandinavians. Neill, Neild, Neele, Neel, Neeld, Niall, Niell, Nield, Niel, Nihell, Nihill are variations. Coupar, when not a variant of Cooper, is a Scottish Place name from Cupar in Fife, likely of Pictish origin, with an unknown meaning. There are also locations Cuper Angus, and Cupar Maculty, but no known surnames are derived from these.
Here is a partial list of the coat of arms we have available. This is just a very small partial list of our surnames, so if you don't see your family crest here, order it anyways, and we will research it. Our family crests are the highest quality on the web. Schamp Coat of Arms
Below is a list of surnames that we have a surname history / surname origin for. If your last name is not here, we may still have a history for your name. Please email us for more information. The number to the right of each name indicates it's poplularity rank in the United States. 