About Autoimmune Disease. More than 80 diseases occur as a result of the immune system attacking the body's own organs, tissues, and cells. Some of the more common autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel disease. Disease that results when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues. Examples include multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus.
Autoimmune Diseases. More than 80 diseases occur as a result of the immune system attacking the body’s own organs, tissues, and cells. Some of the more common autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and inflammatory bowel disease. 
Although each disease is unique, many share hallmark symptoms, such as fatigue, dizziness, and low-grade fever. For many autoimmune diseases, symptoms come and go, or can be mild sometimes and severe at others. When symptoms go away for a while, it's called remission. Flares are the sudden and severe onset of symptoms. But they often have symptoms of some autoimmune disease, like being tired all the time and pain. 1  CFS can cause you to be very tired, have trouble concentrating, feel weak, and have muscle pain. 2  FM is a disorder in which pain or tenderness is felt in multiple places all over the body.
1 People with lupus develop autoimmune antibodies that can attach to tissues throughout the body. 2  The joints, lungs, blood cells, nerves, and kidneys are commonly affected in lupus. 3  Treatment often requires daily oral prednisone, a steroid that reduces immune system function. 4  Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 1 Vasculitis. 2  The immune system attacks and damages blood vessels in this group of autoimmune diseases. 3  Vasculitis can affect any organ, so symptoms vary widely and can occur almost anywhere in the body. 4  Treatment includes reducing immune system activity, usually with prednisone or another corticosteroid.
The following are some of the more common autoimmune diseases: 1  rheumatoid arthritis: inflammation of joints and surrounding tissues. 2  systemic lupus erythematosus: affects skin, joints, kidneys, brain, and other organs. 
Graves’ disease. An autoimmune disease of the thyroid gland that results in the overproduction of thyroid hormone. This causes such symptoms as nervousness, heat intolerance, heart palpitations, and unexplained weight loss. Immune system. Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling
Autoimmune diseases arise from an abnormal immune response of the body against substances and tissues normally present in the body (autoimmunity). 
1 People with a family history — Some autoimmune diseases run in families, such as lupus and multiple sclerosis. 2  It is also common for different types of autoimmune diseases to affect different members of a single family. 3  Inheriting certain genes can make it more likely to get an autoimmune disease. But they often have symptoms of some autoimmune disease, like being tired all the time and pain. 1  CFS can cause you to be very tired, have trouble concentrating, feel weak, and have muscle pain. 2  FM is a disorder in which pain or tenderness is felt in multiple places all over the body.
In a few types of autoimmune disease (such as rheumatic fever), a virus or infection with bacteria triggers an immune response and the antibodies or immune cells called T-cells attack normal cells because some part of their structure resembles a part of the infecting microorganism. Autoimmune diseases arise when the immune system attacks one or more of the body's normal constituents as if they were invaders. When the immune system fails to recognize self it may produce immune cells or antibodies (called autoantibodies) that target its own cells, tissues, and/or organs.