Vertebrates are animals that have a backbone or spinal column, also called vertebrae. These animals include fish, birds, mammals, amphibians, and reptiles.
A vertebrate is an animal with a backbone. (An invertebrate is an animal without a backbone.) Fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals, including humans, are all vertebrates. Vertebrates share some basic characteristics.
Full Definition of VERTEBRATE. : any of a subphylum (Vertebrata) of chordates possessing a spinal column that includes the mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes. See vertebrate defined for English-language learners.
Vertebrates (Vertebrata) are a group of chordates that includes lampreys, mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles, and fishes. There are about 57,000 species of vertebrates alive today, which accounts for about 3% of all known species on our planet.
vertebrate. n. 1. (Zoology) any chordate animal of the subphylum Vertebrata, characterized by a bony or cartilaginous skeleton and a well-developed brain: the group contains fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. adj. 2. (Zoology) of, relating to, or belonging to the subphylum Vertebrata.
2. belonging or pertaining to the Vertebrata, a subphylum of chordate animals having an internal skeleton of bone or cartilage that includes a braincase and a spinal column, and comprising mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes.
Any of a large group of animals having a backbone, including fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Vertebrates are bilaterally symmetrical and have an internal skeleton of bone or cartilage, a nervous system along the back that is divided into brain and spinal cord, and not more than two pairs of limbs.
1. having vertebrae; having a segmented backbone. 2. belonging or pertaining to the Vertebrata, a subphylum of chordate animals having an internal skeleton of bone or cartilage that includes a braincase and a spinal column, and comprising mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes. 3. a vertebrate animal.
Animals with an internal skeleton made of bone are called vertebrates. Vertebrates include fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals, primates, rodents and marsupials.
vertebrate-having a backbone or spinal column; fishes and amphibians and reptiles and birds and mammals are verbetrate animals. zoological science, zoology-the branch of biology that studies animals. invertebrate, spineless-lacking a backbone or spinal column; worms are an example of inverteb