Trust begins with knowing that a doctor is qualified. All ob-gyns have earned their undergraduate college degree and have completed an additional four years of medical school. After receiving their medical degree, ob-gyns complete four years of residency training in obstetrics and gynecology; after this they may elect to become board-certified. 
Formal education and training requirements for physicians are among the most demanding of any occupation-4 years of undergraduate school, 4 years of medical school, and 3 to 8 years of internship and residency, depending on the specialty selected. If you want to be on TV and get an AMS seal and call yourself a meteorologist, you have to have a four year degree. The requirements for becoming a meteorologist are quite stringent and it does take four years as a minimum to take all the required physics, mathematics and meteorology courses.
Salary. During residency training, an OB/GYN’s annual salary may range from $45,000 to $60,000. Salary will increase with each year of training. After residency is completed, the starting salary is generally between $200,000 and $250,000 per year. It is always important to do well in the third year OB/GYN clinical rotation and also to choose at least one sub-internship in the field prior to applying for residency. Training. After completing an MD degree and matching to an OB/GYN program successfully, residents must complete a four-year residency-training program. During this time residents will earn a relatively low salary ($45,000 annually) and care for patients under the supervision of more senior physicians
After earning a bachelor's degree, students must attend a medical school for 4 years to earn an M.D. During the first 2 years of medical school, students usually take lecture courses in anatomy, laboratory science and general health care procedures. 
The World Health Organization has stated that to become a doctor of chiropractic a student must attend no less than 4200 hours of schooling in a chiropractic college after their undergraduate degree. Some schools squish this all into 3 years, others spread it over 4 years. If you want to be on TV and get an AMS seal and call yourself a meteorologist, you have to have a four year degree. The requirements for becoming a meteorologist are quite stringent and it does take four years as a minimum to take all the required physics, mathematics and meteorology courses.
All States, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories license physicians. To be licensed, physicians must graduate from an accredited medical school, pass a licensing examination, and complete 1 to 7 years of graduate medical education. If you want to be on TV and get an AMS seal and call yourself a meteorologist, you have to have a four year degree. The requirements for becoming a meteorologist are quite stringent and it does take four years as a minimum to take all the required physics, mathematics and meteorology courses.
A few medical schools offer combined undergraduate and medical school programs that last 6 years rather than the customary 8 years. The minimum educational requirement for entry into medical school is 3 years of college; most applicants, however, have at least a bachelor's degree, and many have advanced degrees. If you want to be on TV and get an AMS seal and call yourself a meteorologist, you have to have a four year degree. The requirements for becoming a meteorologist are quite stringent and it does take four years as a minimum to take all the required physics, mathematics and meteorology courses.
Gynecologists are medical doctors with advanced training in their specialty. Gynecologists, medical doctors specializing in the reproductive health of women, must complete at least 12 years of school and training after high school. Residency, the next four years of your study, provides you with the first opportunity to concentrate on your specialty. For gynecologists, this includes combined training in obstetrics, the management of pregnancy.