1 It’s normal to have a white/yellow vaginal discharge that does NOT have an odor (smell). 2  Vaginal odor, itching, burning, pain and/or a different discharge are symptoms of an infection. 3  If you have any symptoms of a vaginal infection, call your health care provider.
Glands in the cervix and the walls of the vagina normally produce a clear mucus. This is very common among women of childbearing age. 1  These secretions may turn white or yellow when exposed to the air. 2  The amount of mucus produced varies during the menstrual cycle as hormone levels in the body change.
You might have heard that yellow or green mucus is a clear sign that you have an infection, but despite that common misperception, the yellow or green hue isn't due to bacteria. When you have a cold, your immune system sends white blood cells called neutrophils rushing to the area.
Your normal white/clear discharge will turn yellow or dry yellow when exposed to air. If it is coming out yellow, then you probably have a bacterial infection and need to see a doctor. Different Types of Discharge: White: Thick, white discharge is common at the beginning and end of your cycle. Normal white discharge is not accompanied by itching.
Key Facts. 1  It’s normal to have a white/yellow vaginal discharge that does NOT have an odor (smell). 2  Vaginal odor, itching, burning, pain and/or a different discharge are symptoms of an infection. 3  If you have any symptoms of a vaginal infection, call your health care provider.
Many people think that a yellow or green nasal discharge means a bacterial infection, which requires antibiotics but it is not true. It can be a sign that your body is being attacked by either a bacteria or a virus. That said, a yellow discharge does not necessarily indicate a sinus infection.
Clear Mucus Discharges and Yeast Infection. When clear discharge becomes watery and is accompanied by a cottage cheese discharge that has an offensive odor, it is the sign of either a bacterial vaginal infection or a yeast infection. Sometimes the main signs remind those of sexually transmitted diseases.