The most common causes of rib cage pain are a pulled muscle or bruised ribs. Other causes of rib cage pain are: 1  broken ribs. 2  injuries to the chest. 3  rib fracture. 4  diseases that affect the bones, such as osteoporosis. 5  inflamed lining of the lungs.
Rib cage pain may be sharp, dull, or achy pain felt at and below the chest and above the navel on either side. It may occur after an obvious injury or without explanation. Rib cage pain can be caused by anything from pulled muscles to a rib fracture.
Rib cage pain refers to the discomfort and pain that is felt in the ribs. There can be many reasons which lead to the development of this condition. Identification of the cause of the disease is essential to provide proper treatment.
1 Ulcers-Pain in the lower regions of the rib cage may also be due to an ulcer. 2  An ulcer is an inflamed wound in the upper GI tract. 3  Ulcers occur when inflammations cause wounds and sores in the stomach lining. 4  The H. pylori bacteria and Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are common causes for ulcers.
Costochondritis. Inflammation of the muscles of the rib cage, known as costochondritis, cause pain below the right rib cage. Excessive coughing leads to extra stress on the rib cage and viral infections can cause a pain under right rib cage. Most of the time, the pain will be accompanied by a sore throat, fatigue and fever.
Costochondritis is inflammation of the junctions where the upper ribs join the cartilage that holds them to the breastbone (sternum). Costochondritis causes localized chest wall pain and tenderness that can be reproduced by pushing on the involved cartilage in the front of the rib cage.
Below are some of the possible illnesses and medical conditions that may cause pain under the rib cage. 1  Liver damage-Liver damage or infections and inflammation of the liver can cause pain under right rib cage. 2  Hepatitis is a resulting inflammation of the liver. 3  Hepatitis is caused by alcoholism and viral infections.
1 Costochondritis-Pain under right rib cage may be experienced due to costochondritis which refers to an inflammation of the cartilage connecting the ribs to the breastbone. 2  This can occur due to injury, physical strain, infections, fibromyalgia and upper respiratory illnesses.