Filed: Cost of Living,Slovakia. The best indication of the potential cost of living in a country is the average wage. The average worker in Slovakia earns slightly more than 800 euro per month, a third the salary of the average Austrian worker. Slovak pensioners earn less than half that amount-closer to 350 euro per month. Slovaks live modestly and by necessity inexpensively.
Safety. Living in Slovakia is very safe, Slovakia is a peaceful country, not any more dangerous than any other EU country. According to the Global Peace Index, it was the 24th safest country of the world in 2009 (20th in 2008 and 17th in 2007). Slovak people are usually very kind and helpful. In general, the cost of living (utility costs, prices, etc.) in Slovakia is lower than in west European countries like UK, France or Germany.
However, the standard of living is growing very fast and in some areas of social life it is already on average or above the average of EU countries. In general, the cost of living (utility costs, prices, etc.) in Slovakia is lower than in west European countries like UK, France or Germany. Living costs vary from region to region and are also dependent on fluctuations in the prices of food, energy and other everyday necessit
Cost of Living The overall cost of living in Slovakia (and average salary) is considerably lower than in many other European countries, though with the introduction of the Euro on 1st January 2009 prices seem to have risen dramatically. We are awaiting a list of updated prices for the usual grocery items such as bread and milk. Real estate prices in Bratislava are among the lowest of any EU capital city. Local transportation in Bratislava is cheap and convenient. A one-day pass valid on all forms of transport (bus, trams, trolleys) costs about 1 pound Sterling.
Slovakia s house prices down-again! Slovakia s average residential property prices fell by 1.53% (-1.45% in real terms) y-o-y to Q1 2014, to 1,221 (US$ 1,664) per square metres (sq. m.), according to the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS). This is the third consecutive quarter of price declines, following a slight recovery from Q4 2012 to Q2 2013. Bratislava region, which has the most expensive house prices in Slovakia, was one of the regions with smaller price declines at 1.08% (-1% in real terms) to 1,652 (US$ 2,252) per sq. m.
Price lists are individual depending also on the renown and the location of the restaurant. Generally restaurants situated in smaller cities in Slovakia tend to have lower prices. An average price of a meal dish is about €5,00 - 7.00. A meal costs about 3.50. McDonald’s has started to build its chain in past recent years thorough the country. There are eleven McDonald’s restaurants only in Bratislava, two in Košice and you can find them also in Nitra, Banska Bystrica, Trnava, Presov, Trencin or Zilina.
Hostel in Bratislava {from 40 very bad TO 150 EUR} Buss ticked for 24 hour 10 Eur.Car rental for 21 day 50 Eur.Cross country train one way 80 Eur. # eva on May 05, 2015 : Hostel in Bratislava {from 40 very bad TO 150 EUR} Buss ticked for 24 hour 10 Eur.Car rental for 21 day 50 Eur.Cross country train one way 80 Eur. # Nun of your business on Dec 06, 2013 : it needs to add more than what it has give more information.
Current Prices, NSA. In Slovakia, wages are benchmarked using average monthly earnings. This page provides-Slovakia Average Monthly Wages-actual values, historical data, forecast, chart, statistics, economic calendar and news. Content for-Slovakia Average Monthly Wages-was last refreshed on Thursday, October 22, 2015. 
Travelers checks are generally not accepted in stores, smaller hotels or restaurants. The overall cost of living in Slovakia (and average salary) is considerably lower than in many other European countries, though with the introduction of the Euro on 1st January 2009 prices seem to have risen dramatically. We are awaiting a list of updated prices for the usual grocery items such as bread and milk. Real estate prices in Bratislava are among the lowest of any EU capital city. Local transportation in Bratislava is cheap and convenient. A one-day pass valid on all forms of transport (bus, trams, trolleys) costs about 1 pound Sterling.