Phylum. In biology, a phylum is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division is used instead of phylum, although in 1993 the International Botanical Congress accepted the designation phylum. Princeton's WordNet (3.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: phylum (noun). (linguistics) a large group of languages that are historically related. phylum (noun). (biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants; contains classes.
1. Biology A taxonomic category of organisms ranking below a kingdom and above a class. In the classification of plants, division often replaces phylum. 2. Linguistics A large division of possibly genetically related families of languages or linguistic stocks. subphylum - (biology) a taxonomic group ranking between a phylum and a class. class - (biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more orders. division - (botany) taxonomic unit of plants corresponding to a phylum.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: phylum (Noun). A rank in the classification of organisms, below kingdom and above class; also called a division, especially in describing plants; a taxon at that rank. Mammals belong to the phylum Chordata. Origin: From phylum, from φῦλον. Princeton's WordNet (3.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: phylum (noun). (linguistics) a large group of languages that are historically related. phylum (noun). (biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants; contains classes.
Full Definition of PHYLUM. 1. a: a direct line of descent within a group b: a group that constitutes or has the unity of a phylum; specifically: a primary category in biological taxonomy especially of animals that ranks above the class and below the kingdom — compare division 10. 2
A definition of a phylum based on body plan has been proposed by paleontologists Graham Budd and Soeren Sören (jensen As haeckel had done a century). earlier The definitions of zoological phyla have changed importantly from their origins in the six Linnaean classes and the four embranchements of Georges Cuvier. Haeckel introduced the term phylum, based on the Greek word phylon. In plant taxonomy, Eichler (1883) classified plants into five groups, named divisions.
noun. The definition of a phylum is a major category of living organisms, or a group of genetically related language families. 1  An example of a phylum is Mollusca which means an invertebrate animal such as an octopus. 1 An example of a phylum is Mollusca which means an invertebrate animal such as an octopus. 2  An example of a phylum is the group of Indo-European languages spoken in Europe, Asia, North America, South America and Oceania.
In biology, a phylum (/ˈfaɪləm/ ; plural: phyla) is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 35 phyla, Plantae contains 12, and Fungi contains 7. The definitions of zoological phyla have changed importantly from their origins in the six Linnaean classes and the four embranchements of Georges Cuvier. Haeckel introduced the term phylum, based on the Greek word phylon. In plant taxonomy, Eichler (1883) classified plants into five groups, named divisions
Definition of PHYLUM for Kids. : a group of related living things (as animals or plants) that ranks above the class and below the kingdom in scientific classification. a: a direct line of descent within a group b: a group that constitutes or has the unity of a phylum; specifically: a primary category in biological taxonomy especially of animals that ranks above the class and below the kingdom — compare division 10.
The word phylum (plural: phyla) is a category used to classify marine organisms. In this article, you can learn the definition of phylum, how it is used, and examples of phyla used to categorize marine life. 