The German drug company Chemie Gruenenthal grünenthal developed and sold the. Drug primarily prescribed as a sedative or, hypnotic thalidomide also claimed to  cure, anxiety, insomnia, gastritis and. Tension, afterwards it was used against nausea and to alleviate morning sickness in pregnant. women Today, thalidomide is sold by Celgene, mainly as a treatment of certain cancers (multiple myeloma) and of a complication of leprosy. Thalidomide was first marketed in 1957 in West Germany under the trade-name Contergan. The German drug company Chemie Gruenenthal grünenthal developed and sold the. drug
Thalidomide was first marketed in 1957 in West Germany under the trade-name Contergan. The German drug company Chemie Gruenenthal grünenthal developed and sold the. Drug primarily prescribed as a sedative or, hypnotic thalidomide also claimed to  cure, anxiety, insomnia, gastritis and. tension Today, thalidomide is sold by Celgene, mainly as a treatment of certain cancers (multiple myeloma) and of a complication of leprosy. Thalidomide was first marketed in 1957 in West Germany under the trade-name Contergan. The German drug company Chemie Gruenenthal grünenthal developed and sold the. drug
Thalidomide also is being evaluated as a treatment for HIV and several other conditions. Thalidomide was approved by the FDA in July 1998. PRESCRIBED FOR: Thalidomide is used for the treatment and prevention of skin conditions resulting from leprosy (erythema nodosum leprosum) and for treating multiple myelomas. 
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Thalidomide is a sedative that used to be prescribed to treat anxiety, tension, gastritis and insomnia. It was also used to relieve morning sickness in pregnant women. However, thalidomide was found to cause deformity in children born to mothers who took the drug and it was withdrawn in the UK during the early 1960s. Today, thalidomide is sold and prescribed as an anti-cancer therapy and as a treatment for patients with leprosy, HIV/AIDS, rheumatoid arthritis, sarcoidosis, Chron’s disease, various skin conditions and graft-versus-host disease.
Thalidomide is a drug that was prescribed to pregnant women in the 60's ish to relieve the symptoms of morning sickness that was later discovered to cause birth deformities (p … articularly malformed limbs). Thalidomide is not an antibiotic. It's a sedative and antiemetic. It was commonly prescribed for morning sickness until it was realized that it is also a teratogen and cause … s birth defects.
Be the first to review this Drug. Thalidomide is the generic form of the brand-name drug Thalomid, prescribed along with a corticosteroid (dexamethasone) to treat multiple myeloma-a malignancy in plasma cells-when a person is newly diagnosed with the disease. Doctors also prescribe thalidomide to treat and prevent acute skin symptoms of moderate to severe erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL), an inflammatory complication of leprosy (Hansen's disease).
Thalidomide (/θəˈlɪdəmaɪd/ ; from phthalimido-glutarimide, currently sold as Immunoprin, Talidex, Talizer, or Thalomid) is an immunomodulatory drug and the prototype of the thalidomide class of drugs. Today, thalidomide is sold by Celgene, mainly as a treatment of certain cancers (multiple myeloma) and of a complication of leprosy. Thalidomide was first marketed in 1957 in West Germany under the trade-name Contergan. The German drug company Chemie Gruenenthal grünenthal developed and sold the. drug
Despite its harmful side effects, thalidomide is FDA-approved for two uses today—the treatment of inflammation associated with Hansen’s disease (leprosy) and as a chemotherapeutic agent for patients with multiple myeloma, purposes for which it was originally prescribed off-label. 
Primarily prescribed as a sedative or hypnotic, thalidomide also claimed to cure  anxiety, insomnia, gastritis, and tension. Afterwards, it was used against nausea and to alleviate morning sickness in pregnant women. Thalidomide became an over-the-counter drug in West Germany on October 1, 1957. Today, thalidomide is sold by Celgene, mainly as a treatment of certain cancers (multiple myeloma) and of a complication of leprosy. Thalidomide was first marketed in 1957 in West Germany under the trade-name Contergan. The German drug company Chemie Gruenenthal grünenthal developed and sold the. drug