Re: how do i remove dots in my document where there should be spac. Find the Options under the Office Button in Word 2007. See. http://word.mvps.org/FAQs/Formatting/NonPrintChars.htm for more. Sponsored Links. Re: how do i remove dots in my document where there should be spac. Clickon the ¶ button in the Paragraph section of the ribbon. --. JoAnn Paules. MVP Microsoft [Publisher]. ~~~~~. How to ask a question. http://support.microsoft.com/KB/555375. news:B623DE02-2BBD-40C7-B4FA-FD90FBB3D5E2@microsoft.com...
SYMPTOMS. When you type text in a Microsoft Word document, a dot may unexpectedly appear when you press the SPACEBAR. Dots instead of spaces may also appear in text that was previously entered. Back to the top | Give Feedback. The formatting marks no longer appear. 1  On the Tools menu, click Options, and then click the View tab. 2  Under Formatting marks, click to clear the Spaces check box. 3  Note If the Spaces check box is clear and the All check box is selected, click to clear the All
before my microsoft word was fine. like when i typed words it was clear. now every time i hit the space a small dot appears in the middle of the gap between the words, which makes it a hell of a time trying read what i typed. also every time there is an indent or tab an arrow appears. 
You can do that by using the handles that appear on the text box when you select it, but a more precise way is by following these steps if you are using Word 2007: 1  Right-click on the text box. 2  Choose the Format Text Box option from the Context menu. 3  Make sure the Size tab is selected. You can do that by using the handles that appear on the text box when you select it, but a more precise way is by following these steps if you are using Word 2007: 1  Right-click on the text box. 2  Word displays a Context menu. 3  Choose the Format Text Box option from the Context menu.
What do all those funny marks, like the dots between the words in my document, and the square bullets in the left margin, mean? One other type of “nonprinting character” that is toggled by the Show/Hide button is Hidden text. Even when it is displayed, Hidden text is not printed unless you check the box for it on the Print tab of Tools | Options (in Word 2007, this setting is at Office Button | Word Options | Display: Printing options).