THE MEANING OF ENGLISH NAMES. Here is fairly comprehensive list of first (Christian) names used in the English-speaking world (Great Britain, the United States, Ireland; Australia etc.). It also includes an indication of the traditional meaning of these names. It should of some use to anyone thinking about choosing a name for a baby or interested in finding out what their own name means. Top 10 English names. A-C / D-F / G-I / J-L / M-O / P-R / S-U / V-Z
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?. We offer name meanings for over 45,000 different baby names, surnames, and city names from all over the world. We are in the process of building many tools and resources to help make your studies easier.
List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Shubham in Hindu origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. The eyeballs of a baby normally look larger as compared to the size of the head of the baby and or its complete size. This is because their eye balls as compared to human eye balls are just about 75%. This means only 25% eye balls grow at a later stage.
Numerological Meaning (For Entertainment Purposes Only). People with this name tend to be very inspired, intuitive, and creative. Their aim is to improve the world and can be quite altruistic. 
Idioms. be a name to conjure with. in all but name. in God's/heaven's name. in name only. in the name of sth. in the name of sb/sth. make a name for yourself. your name is mud. the name of the game. › to give a name to someone or something: They ​decided to name ​their first ​child Benjamin. › To name is also to ​choose or to ​state ​publicly: The ​president has ​yet to name a new ​ambassador to Russia. (Definition of name from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press).
Meaning of Shubham. Indian name. In Indian, the name Shubham means-auspicious or lucky.The name Shubham originated as an Indian name. The name Shubham is most often used as a boy name or male name. Indian Name Meaning-auspicious or lucky
You are spiritually intense and can sting or charm. Your name brings love and new starts into life and attracts money. In business, you are the creator and promoter of original ideas and usually enjoy considerable financial success.Emergencies may raise your intuitive abilities in order to resolve conflict or situation. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate.
You want to make a difference in the world, and this attitude often attracts you to cultural interests, politics, social issues, and the cultivation of your creative talents. Click here to see the meaning of the Number 4 In Tarot. Four represents Enclosure, Completion, Foundation. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate.
1 ABEGAYLE: Variant spelling of English Abigail, meaning father rejoices.. 2  ABELIA: From the Latin name of a genus of honeysuckle.. 3  ABI: Anglicized form of Hebrew Abiy, meaning my father.. 4  In the bible, this is the name of the mother of King Hezekiah. 5  Compare with masculine Abi. 1 Also spelled Avra. 2  ABRIANNA: English feminine form of Hebrew Abraham, meaning father of a multitude.. 3  ACACIA: English name derived from the tree name, from Latin acacia, from Greek akakia, meaning thorny Egyptian tree.. 4  Besides the flowering shrub or tree, Acacia is also the name of a fraternity.
Save. name–calling /ˈneɪmˌkɑːlɪŋ/ noun. name–calling. /ˈneɪmˌkɑːlɪŋ/. noun. Learner's definition of NAME–CALLING. [noncount]. : the act of using offensive names to insult someone. “That man is an arrogant, immoral fool!” “I understand your anger, but name-calling won't get you anywhere.”. Don't resort to name-calling. 