And, of course, you might be keen to find out if that creepy guy in the lunch queue at work is cyber-stalking you. Bad news, I'm afraid. There is *no* way that you can find out who has been looking at your Facebook profile. The only people who might have the data is Facebook itself, and it doesn't seem interested in providing the functionality.
Facebook. First the warning: there are s cams aplenty promising to show you who is stalking your Facebook page. I put in a call to Facebook and spoke with their technical folks-the truth is no-one can see who's been on your Facebook page. There are no features buried in the Facebook settings with that data. Facebook says it is one of the most common scam come-ons on the site. Don't fall for it; you cannot see who's looking at your profile (and no one can see if you've been looking at theirs).
There are no apps that can unearth that info. Facebook says it is one of the most common scam come-ons on the site. Don't fall for it; you cannot see who's looking at your profile (and no one can see if you've been looking at theirs). But… there are apps and tools to see who's unfriended you
No. Facebook doesn't let you track who views your profile or your posts (ex: your photos). Third-party apps are also unable to do this. If you come across an app that says it can show you who's viewing your profile or posts, please report the app. No. An app or game should never force you to download something, fill out a survey, log in again, enter a promotion or take any other action to make you see something. The only thing that an app or game can require you to do to see something is like its Page. If you believe an app or game is abusive, please report it.
If you block your ex, he can’t see your Facebook profile. However, he can see if you comment on other people’s posts if you’re mutual friends. Also, if someone tags you in a post or shares one of yours, he might be able to see it. But he won’t be able to go to your Timeline and see what you’ve posted directly. 
Open your profile. While you can't determine who exactly is looking at your profile on a regular basis, you can determine who you interact with the most and who Facebook thinks your closest friends are. This list that Facebook keeps is determined by a variety of factors: who comments on your posts, who you message frequently, who looks at your Facebook the most often, and more. 1  There is no way to see JUST who looks at your page the most, and any app which says that it can tell you that is lying and a scam.
Best Answer: No, you can't tell who's been looking at your Facebook page, atleast not anonymously. It's against Facebook policy. HOWEVER, there are some applications that can let you know who's been looking at your profile, but there's a catch. Your friends will have to press a specific button or link for you to know that they have looked at your profile. The app is called Friend Tracker.. I'm sure there are other ones with different names, but that's the one that I noticed first. There used to be something called Trakzor but I think Facebook removed it.
No. Facebook doesn't let you track who views your profile or your posts (ex: your photos). Third-party apps are also unable to do this. If you come across an app that says it can show you who's viewing your profile or posts, please report the app. More info. Get help for mobile apps and browsers. 
Technically, you can track which IP addresses have viewed your page. But to track specific people is against the site's rules. Though there is software that can be used, using it is against the site's rules. So currently, there is no way to track who views your Facebook profile without breaking Facebook's rules. 
If I look at someone's Facebook profile that is not private, is there anyway they can find out (ie profile views increase) or see my profile or ip address? 