A prepositional phrase is a group of words that begins with a preposition and ends with a noun or a pronoun. This noun or pronoun is called the object of the preposition.. T … hese types of phrases help to enrich a sentence. A prepositional phrase is a group of words that starts with a preposition and ends with the object of the preposition (a noun, pronoun, or noun phrase). Let's look at some s … teps to identifying prepositional phrases.
Notice that the prepositional phrase contains no verbs. Generally, they contain an adjective, a noun or pronoun and they can also contain a gerund. The noun or pronoun is the object of the preposition. Prepositional phrases can also contain conjunctions to join two nouns or pronouns as in this example: Prepositional Phrases. In a sentence prepositions show the relation of one word to another word. Prepositions require an object to complete them, typically a noun or a pronoun. A preposition and its object is called a prepositional phrase.
A preposition draws a relationship between a noun or pronoun and another word in a sentence. A prepositional phrase includes a preposition, its object, and any modifiers of the object. The preposition’s object is the noun or pronoun that follows the preposition. Prepositional phrases can function as either adjective phrases or adverb phrases to modify other words in a sentence. Common examples of prepositions include about, after, at, before, behind, by, during, for, from, in, of, over, past, to, under, up, and with. 
At the minimum, a prepositional phrase will begin with a preposition and end with a noun, pronoun, gerund, or clause, the object of the preposition. The object of the preposition will often have one or more modifiers to describe it. These are the patterns for a prepositional phrase: Preposition + Noun, Pronoun, Gerund, or Clause Preposition + Modifier(s) + Noun, Pronoun, Gerund, or Clause Here are some examples of the most basic prepositional phrase: At home At = preposition; home = noun. In time In = preposition; time = noun.
The combination of a preposition and a noun phrase is called a prepositional phrase. A word group (such as in front of or on top of) that functions like a simple, one-word preposition is called a complex preposition. Definition. In English grammar, a preposition is a word (one of the parts of speech and a member of a closed word class) that shows the relationship between a noun or pronoun and other words in a sentence. See the lists of simple prepositions and deverbal prepositions below.
Definition. A prepositional phrase is a group of words made up of a preposition, its object, and any of the object's modifiers. Prepositional phrases can modify nouns, verbs, phrases, and complete clauses. As demonstrated by several of the examples below, prepositional phrases can be embedded inside other prepositional phrases. 
PREPOSITIONS. Prepositions are words which begin prepositional phrases. A prepositional phrase is a group of words containing a preposition, a noun or pronoun object of the preposition, and any modifiers of the object. A preposition sits in front of (is pre-positioned before) its object. The following words are the most commonly used prepositions: about. below. 
Every prepositional phrase is a series of words made up of a preposition and its object. The object may be a noun, pronoun, gerund or clause. A prepositional phrase functions as an adjective or adverb. 