A centralized government is one in which power or legal authority is exerted or coordinated by a de facto political executive to which federal states, local authorities, and smaller units are considered subject. In a national context, centralization occurs in the transfer of power to a typically sovereign nation state. 
A centralized government is where all decisions are made by the government, weather they're business, social, or military or whatever. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. A centralized government is where all decisions are made by the government, weather they're business, social, or military or whatever. They tell a farmer what to plant, how much and when, they tell a factory to only manufacture a certain product and in a certain way etc..
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A centralized government puts all power and responsibility in the hands of one person. This type of government works best in a small nation, where a small government would be more efficent. A decentralized government spreads the responsibility and power among more people. The difference between a centralized and a decentralized system of organization is that in a centralized structure all the decision making and authority are focused on the top … tier of management. These few people are the ones that dictate company policy and make all the crucial decisions.
(Discuss) Proposed since September 2014. A centralized government (also centralised government (non-Oxford spelling)) is one in which power or legal authority is exerted or coordinated by a de facto political executive to which federal states, local authorities, and smaller units are considered subject. In a national context, centralization occurs in the transfer of power to a typically sovereign nation state. All constituted governments are, to some degree, necessarily centralized, in the sense that a theoretically federal state exerts an authority or prerogative beyond that of its constituent parts.
A centralized government is one in which the authority and responsibility of governing rests with a small group at the highest level of government. Most governments have at least some centralized functions. Some governments are entirely centralized, placing all authority in the hands of a single dictator or political party. There are both advantages and disadvantages to the centralization of government. Advantages of Centralized Government. The main benefit of highly centralized government is that they tend to be efficient at accomplishing the government's goals.
A central government is the government of a nation-state and is a characteristic of a unitary state. This is the same thing as a federal government which may have distinct powers at various levels authorized or delegated to it by its member states, though the adjective 'central' is sometimes used to describe it. The structure of central governments varies.
The central government is the political authority that governs an entire nation. The United States is a federal system of government in which power is shared between the central (sometimes referred to as national or federal) government and state governments. In the U.S., power is given to the central government, located in Washington, D.C., by the United States Constitution. Some roles are concurrent or shared, such as the power to tax. It is also important to note that the central government has national supremacy. If a conflict arises regarding the authority of the central or state government, the central government takes precedent (or wins).