Introduction. The Urinary System is a group of organs in the body concerned with filtering out excess fluid and other substances from the bloodstream. The substances are filtered out from the body in the form of urine. Urine is a liquid produced by the kidneys, collected in the bladder and excreted through the urethra.
The organs, tubes, muscles, and nerves that work together to create, store, and carry urine are the urinary system. The urinary system includes two kidneys, two ureters, the bladder, two sphincter muscles, and the urethra.
The urinary system, also known as the renal system, produces, stores and eliminates urine, the fluid waste excreted by the kidneys. The kidneys make urine by filtering wastes and extra water from blood. Urine travels from the kidneys through two thin tubes called ureters and fills the bladder.
Certain types of medications can also affect the amount of urine eliminated. The urinary system removes a type of waste called urea from your blood. Urea is produced when foods containing protein, such as meat, poultry, and certain vegetables, are broken down in the body.
The role of the excretory system is to remove waste products such as urea, uric acid, and creatinine from the blood to be passed out of the body as urine. The urinary system also helps us to regulate the amount of glucose, salts and water in the blood.
The bladder or urinary bladder is a muscular sac that stores urine. The bladder has muscular contractions that force urine out of the body through a tube called the urethra. So, the function of the bladder is to store and get rid of urine.
Function: To make urine from waste products and excess water found in your blood. Balancing your blood. For your body to work properly, the conditions inside it, such as water, pH and salt levels, need to be kept constant. Your kidneys play a vital role in keeping your blood composition constant. They filter your blood to remove excess water and waste products, which are secreted from your kidneys as urine.