In most cases, it takes seven years or more to become a licensed physical therapist. The first four years of training are completed at the undergraduate level in health, science or a related field. The next three years are towards a master's degree plus one year of studies in a doctorate degree program. 
Students must complete a four-year bachelor’s degree to enter a doctor of physical therapy program. While completing the undergraduate degree, they may have to take required prerequisite courses, such as biology, chemistry, physics, social science and statistics, to gain admittance to the graduate program. A residency program may take up to a year to complete and allow the therapist to focus on a specific area in the field. For example, the Hospital for Special Surgery offers a hand therapy fellowship that requires a nine-month commitment to complete.
Physical therapist assistant (PTA) education, obtained in a CAPTE-accredited two-year associate degree program, prepares graduates for taking the national licensure examination and entering the field of physical therapy with the required knowledge, skills, and behaviors of a PTA. Approximately seventy-five percent (75%) of the PTA curriculum comprises classroom (didactic) and lab study and the remaining 25 percent (25%) is dedicated to clinical education. PT students spend on average 16 weeks in full-time clinical education experiences.
Answer   After high school (if you start college right away) it should take about 4 years to become a physical therapist. To become a licensed massage therapist, you must put in between 500 and 2000 hours of training. That translates into between six months and two years of training at a board-ce … rtified college. The exact time will depend on which province or state that you would like to practice in.
In order to work as a physical therapist, you must complete a Doctor of Physical Therapy degree program. As of 2014, there were 228 physical therapy programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE), most of which last three years. 
The lowest 10 percent of physical therapists earned $54,710, and the top 10 percent earned $110,670 annually during the same period. Physical therapists working in the management, scientific and technical consulting industry earned the highest salaries in 2011, according to the BLS, with annual mean earnings of $91,020. A residency program may take up to a year to complete and allow the therapist to focus on a specific area in the field. For example, the Hospital for Special Surgery offers a hand therapy fellowship that requires a nine-month commitment to complete.
Residency Programs. Some physical therapists continue their studies after the doctorate program in a physical therapy residency or fellowship. A residency program may take up to a year to complete and allow the therapist to focus on a specific area in the field. For example, the Hospital for Special Surgery offers a hand therapy fellowship that requires a nine-month commitment to complete.
Confidence votes 129. It takes 7 years to become a Physical Therapist. Typically 4 years to obtain an undergraduate degree and 3 years of physical therapy school. With this you get a DPT (Doctorate in Physical Therapy) in most programs. To become a licensed massage therapist, you must put in between 500 and 2000 hours of training. That translates into between six months and two years of training at a board-ce … rtified college. The exact time will depend on which province or state that you would like to practice in.
1. Make sure you have what it takes to be a physical therapist. Before you jump into the educational program that is required for you to be a physical therapist, you should have a clear sense of what this career entails. 3. Find a job as a physical therapist. There are a variety of potential job settings for a physical therapist, including hospitals, clinics, outpatient facilities, homes, schools, and fitness centers. Check your local job listings to find availabilities in your area.