Uterine artery embolization is a minimally-invasive (without a large abdominal incision) technique which involves identifying which arteries supply blood to the fibroids and then blocking off those arteries. Uterine artery embolization is performed by an interventional radiologist, a doctor specializing in the field of radiology that treats a wide range of internal body conditions without making a surgical incision.
Uterine artery embolization (UAE) is a procedure that offers an alternative to traditional surgical removal of uterine fibroids. The procedure may also be referred to as uterine fibroid embolization (UFE). Uterine artery embolization shrinks fibroids by blocking off their blood supply. The blood supply is blocked by injecting very small particles into the arteries that supply the fibroids. The particles stick to the vessel wall and cause a clot to develop, blocking off the blood supply. Uterine artery embolization is performed by an interventional radiologist, a doctor specializing in the field of radiology that treats a wide range of internal body conditions without making a surgical incision.
The procedure is also sometimes referred to as Uterine Artery Embolization (UAE), but this term is less specific and, as will be discussed below, UAE is used for conditions other than fibroids. Fibroid tumors, also known as myomas, are benign tumors that arise from the muscular wall of the uterus. It is extremely rare for them to turn cancerous. More commonly, they cause heavy menstrual bleeding, pain in the pelvic region, and pressure on the bladder or bowel.
Uterine fibroid embolization (UFE) is a minimally invasive procedure used to treat fibroid tumors of the uterus which can cause heavy menstrual bleeding, pain, and pressure on the bladder or bowel. It uses a form of real-time x-ray called fluoroscopy to guide the delivery of embotic agents to the uterus and fibroids. Fibroid tumors, also known as myomas, are benign tumors that arise from the muscular wall of the uterus. It is extremely rare for them to turn cancerous. More commonly, they cause heavy menstrual bleeding, pain in the pelvic regio
Guide. Uterine fibroid embolization (UFE) is a procedure done by a radiologist. It blocks blood flow to fibroids in the uterus. (It is also called uterine artery embolization.) For women who are not planning a pregnancy in the future, UFE is a possible option in place of surgery for fibroids. Follow your doctor's instructions exactly about when to stop eating and drinking, or your procedure may be canceled. What To Expect After Treatment. Uterine fibroid embolization usually takes between 1 and 3 hours, depending on how long it takes to position the catheter and how easy it is to position the catheter in the arterie
The procedure is done for the treatment of uterine fibroids and adenomyosis. Given that this minimally invasive procedure is commonly used in the treatment of uterine fibroids it is also called uterine fibroid embolization (UFE). 
Uterine fibroid embolization is used to shrink or destroy uterine fibroids. It is used in women with fibroid problems who do not wish to treat fibroids with hysterectomy, do not plan to be pregnant in the future, and have not reached menopause. What To Expect After Treatment. Uterine fibroid embolization usually takes between 1 and 3 hours, depending on how long it takes to position the catheter and how easy it is to position the catheter in the arteries in the uterus.
Uterine fibroid embolization is a procedure in which small microscopic beads are injected into blood vessels that are supplying the uterus. There is a significant debate in using uterine artery embolization for the removal of fibroids and then a patient becoming pregnant, and at this time there is no good long-term data on this scenario.
Because the effect of uterine fibroid embolization on fertility is not fully understood, UFE is typically offered to women who no longer wish to become pregnant or who want or need to avoid having a hysterectomy, which is the operation to remove the uterus. top of page. Fibroid tumors, also known as myomas, are benign tumors that arise from the muscular wall of the uterus. It is extremely rare for them to turn cancerous. More commonly, they cause heavy menstrual bleeding, pain in the pelvic region, and pressure on the bladder or bowel.