1 White blood cell (WBC) count is a count of the total number of white blood cells in a person's sample of blood. 2  White blood cell differential may or may not be included as part of the panel of tests. 3  It identifies and counts the number of the various types of white blood cells present. 1 The platelet count is the number of platelets in a person's sample of blood. 2  Mean platelet volume (MPV) may be reported with a CBC. 3  It is a calculation of the average size of platelets. 4  Platelet distribution width (PDW) may also
Guide. A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the kinds and numbers of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have. A CBC also helps him or her diagnose conditions, such as anemia, infection, and many other disorders. A CBC test usually includes: 1  White blood cell (WBC, leukocyte) count. 2  White blood cells protect the body against infection. 3  If an infection develops, white blood cells attack and destroy the bacteria, virus, or other organism causing it. 4  White blood cells are bigger than red blood cells but fewer in number. 
Definition. A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. 2  White blood cells, which fight infection. A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxyge
A complete blood count is a common blood test that's done for a variety of reasons: 1  To review your overall health. 2  To diagnose a medical condition. 3  To monitor a medical condition. 4  To monitor medical treatment. 5  Definition. 6  How you prepare. 1 To review your overall health. 2  Your doctor may recommend a complete blood count as part of a routine medical examination to monitor your general health and to screen for a variety of disorders, such as anemia or leukemia.
The complete blood count (CBC) is a test that evaluates the cells that circulate in blood. Blood consists of three types of cells suspended in fluid called plasma: white blood cells (WBCs), red blood cells (RBCs), and platelets (PLTs). 
The complete blood count, or CBC, lists a number of many important values. Typically, it includes the following: 1  White blood cell count (WBC or leukocyte count). 2  WBC differential count. 3  Red blood cell count (RBC or erythrocyte count). 4  Hematocrit (Hct). 5  Hemoglobin (Hbg). 6  Mean corpuscular volume (MCV). 
A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to measure and evaluate cells that circulate in the blood. The test includes an actual counting of red and white blood cells as well as an analysis of cells viewed on a blood smear. A CBC may be useful as a screening test for underlying infection, anemia and illness. 
CBC blood test results can determine if a person is sick or has developed a disease or illness. Learn what an increase or decrease of a specific cell means. slide 1 of 6. A complete blood count, CBC, is a broad screening test that examines different parts of the blood. It gives important information about the kinds and numbers of cells in the blood. A CBC blood test is very common. The reason for ordering this type of blood test can range from needing to know someone’s general health status to trying to diagnose a person with a specific disorder. When a person is experiencing unusual symptoms, a CBC can be ordered to diagnose the cause.
The complete blood count (CBC) is often used as a broad screening test to determine an individual's general health status. It can be used to: 1  Screen for a wide range of conditions and diseases. 2  Help diagnose various conditions, such as anemia, infection, inflammation, bleeding disorder or leukemia, to name just a few. 1 The platelet count is the number of platelets in a person's sample of blood. 2  Mean platelet volume (MPV) may be reported with a CBC. 3  It is a calculation of the average size of platelets. 4  Platelet distribution width (PDW) may also