Thermofoil is available in a range of textures and sheen levels, the most popular choice being solid white with a matte sheen. For a budget kitchen remodel, a thermofoil cabinet door is an easy and economical alternative to white paint. Often used for making kitchen cabinet doors, this reasonably priced and commonly available synthetic material is a thin, tight, heat-sealed plastic wrap used to mold over an MDF substrate. Thermofoil cabinet doors can be a solid color or imitation wood grain.
Planning to reface my cabinets -- remodel guy quoted me a price for both Thermofoil and wood (which I believe would be wood veneer) -- $1k more for wood. Not sure what to do. 
Thermofoil is a surface finish applied to cabinets by multiple manufacturers. It is a plastic material which is thermoformed to the profile of an underlying engineered wood core such as medium-density fiberboard. Often used for making kitchen cabinet doors, this reasonably priced and commonly available synthetic material is a thin, tight, heat-sealed plastic wrap used to mold over an MDF substrate. Thermofoil cabinet doors can be a solid color or imitation wood grain.
Thermofoil cabinets are a popular alternative for home builders and kitchen remodelers because they resemble genuine wood, but at a much lower cost. The process of creating thermoil cabinetry is similar to that of creating laminate flooring, and involves heat sealing a thin vinyl foil over particle board. Thermofoil's Core. Under its vinyl skin, the core material of a thermofoil cabinet is particle board or medium density fiberboard (MDF). Both are composed of a sawdust and glue mixture that has been compression-molded into its shape.
Thermofoil cabinets consist of laminate or melamine bonded to a medium-density fiberboard core. These strong and decorative covers withstand high-traffic areas, such as a busy kitchen. The variety of textures and finishes can help refurbish an older home's kitchen or style a contemporary bathroom on a mid-range budget. 
The downside of thermofoil is its greater susceptibility to heat and moisture compared to other materials. Heat-generating appliances such as coffeemakers and toasters should not be placed too close to the cabinets. Heat shields can be placed between cabinets and major appliances such as dishwashers and ranges. Often used for making kitchen cabinet doors, this reasonably priced and commonly available synthetic material is a thin, tight, heat-sealed plastic wrap used to mold over an MDF substrate. Thermofoil cabinet doors can be a solid color or imitation wood grain.
The result is a kitchen cabinet with a smooth, seamless finish. Thermofoil is most often seen in white or off-white, although some manufacturers offer a variety of colors and even faux wood finishes. Thermofoil is also sometimes applied to existing cabinets as a refinishing technique.
Thermofoil cabinets are similar to laminate, with a vinyl coating placed over a manufactured or pressed wood base. The thermofoil manufactured today is much more durable than the type that was popular in the 1980s, but there are still some trade-offs when compared to natural wood. Thermofoil cabinets stand up well to high humidity and regular cleaning, while wood cabinets can become warped and lackluster under those same conditions. On the other hand, once a thermofoil cabinet is damaged, it loses its resistance to moisture and can start to fall apart quickly.
Face frame is finished to match thermofoil. Available in white or soft cream, thermofoil cabinet doors feature a flawless, silky-smooth surface. Thermofoil material is applied to medium-density fiberboard (MDF) using an intense heat and pressure-bonding process to ensure durability. 