Percocet is a prescription drug which is a combination of oxycodone and Acetaminophen (or Tylenol). Oxycodone is part of the drug class called narcotic analgesics. Oxycodone is commercially made, from thebaine, which is an opiate alkaloid. It also includes minor component of opium. The reason for this being, Percocet is made in a time release tablet which is designed so that the oxycodone is released slowly over time. If too much of the drug is released at one time it can result in a very dangerous and possibly life threatening overdose.
Oxycodone is available as single-ingredient medication in immediate release and controlled release. Parenteral formulations of 10 mg/mL and 50 mg/mL are available in the U.K. for IV/IM administration. 
It is made into tablets that just contain Oxycodone; the most popular brand names for this form of the drug are Oxycontin and Roxycodone. It is also made into tablets that contain Oxycodone mixed with Acetaminophen; the most popular brand names for this form are Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox. For people who abuse Oxycodone, they will abuse the form that just contains the Oxycodone.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/2/2015. Percocet (oxycodone and acetaminophen) is a combination drug consisting of oxycodone (opioid drug type) and acetaminophen (analgesic and antipyretic drug type). Percocet is available in the generic form named oxycodone and acetaminophen. 
Percocet is a combo of two drugs: oxycodone and APAP (tylenol). They are mixed in 3 main formulations but other variations exist. 5/325 7/500 10/325. The lower number indicat … ing the amount of oxycodone, the higher number being the tylenol. Percocet is a brand name drug (by Endo), containing oxycodone and acetaminophen (APAP). Oxycodone is an opioid (narcotic), and acetaminophen is a weak analgesic that, when taken with oxycodone, provides greater analgesia than either drug alone
Oxycodone is a semi-synthetic opiate manufactured by modifying the chemical thebaine, an organic chemical found in opium. 1 It is the active ingredient in a number of commonly prescribed pain relief medications such as Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox. 
Answer by Dominique DiLuca. Confidence votes 2.1K. Percocet is a brand name drug (by Endo), containing oxycodone and acetaminophen (APAP). Oxycodone is an opioid (narcotic), and acetaminophen is a weak analgesic that, when taken with oxycodone, provides greater analgesia than either drug alone
The Rise of Oxycodone. Oxycodone is a pain relieving medication that has recently become a very popular drug of choice for illicit users. In the medical sense, Oyxcodone is one powerful and amazing pain relieving drug for those who really need it. It is most commonly prescribed to patients to manage pain after surgery. It is also made into tablets that contain Oxycodone mixed with Acetaminophen; the most popular brand names for this form are Percocet, Percodan, and Tylox. For people who abuse Oxycodone, they will abuse the form that just contains the