Interferential Units are a VERY EFFECTIVE WAY to relieve your pain QUICKLY and EFFECTIVELY. An Interferential is kind of like a TENS Unit. Interferential Stimulation differs from TENS because it allows a deeper penetration of the tissue which provides effective pain relief.Interferential Unit Stimulators are a low frequency treatments with the transmission of pain messages at the spinal cord level.
The best of both worlds! LGMedSupply INTENSITY Select Interferential & TENS Unit Combo is a portable electrotherapy device featuring two therapeutic modes: Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) and Interferential (IF), which are used for pain relief.
Interferential Current Therapy (IFC). Targeting the pain site, not the entire body. Interferential Current Therapy (IFC) is a noninvasive therapy indicated for the symptomatic relief from, and management of, chronic intractable pain and post-surgical and post-trauma acute pain. Thus, IFC crosses the skin with greater ease and with less stimulation than with TENS. Interferential current reaches greater depths and over a larger volume of tissue than other forms of electrotherapy. Normally, very deep pain is difficult to reach with traditional modalities. IFC increases circulation as well.
Interferential current is essentially a deeper form of TENS. In essence, IFC modulates a high frequency (4000 Hz) carrier waveform with the same signal produced by a TENS unit. The high frequency carrier waveform penetrates the skin more deeply than a regular TENS unit, with less user discomfort for a given level of stimulation. Deep in the tissues, the carrier waveform is cancelled out, resulting in a TENS-like signal deep under the skin.
On most interferential units, and on some TENS units, there is also a timer. Most timers can be set for 15, 30, 45 minutes of stimulation, or set on Continuous mode. If 15,30 or 45 minutes of treatment occurs and the unit goes off, but the pain comes back, then switch to Continuous and wear until the pain is gone. With tens or interferential one can use the unit anytime there is pain present. If using tens or interferential and its difficult to sleep, due to pain, then wear the unit all night long if it helps the pain go away and one can sleep.
DESCRIPTION Interferential current stimulation (IFS) is a type of electrical stimulation. It is believed that IFS permeates the tissues more effectively and thus is more comfortable than transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS). 
Unlike pain medications the goal with interferential is to not have to use the unit, to extend the carryover pain period and not be in pain. With medications it can be the opposite and the patient is increasing the frequency of taking pills, or asking for more or stronger drugs.. Yes. With tens or interferential one can use the unit anytime there is pain present. If using tens or interferential and its difficult to sleep, due to pain, then wear the unit all night long if it helps the pain go away and one can sleep.
TREATMENT TIME When treating acute pain with the 80Hz to 120Hz setting, interferential therapy will provide a release of enkephalin with a treatment time of 10 to 12 minutes. Chronic pain, however, requires 15 to 20 minutes of the 3Hz to 15Hz setting to provide release of beta-endorphins. 
The explanation for this is the purpose of tens or interferential is to get rid of the pain signal. Neither a tens or interferential unit is meant for the patient to feel the unit all the time. The purpose is for the patient to not be in pain and to not feel pain.. No again the purpose is to not feel pain. With tens or interferential one can use the unit anytime there is pain present. If using tens or interferential and its difficult to sleep, due to pain, then wear the unit all night long if it helps the pain go away and one can sleep.