The meaning of Sue is “Lily”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Sue and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Sue and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Sue we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day. Searching for a name is a very important and fun process as it’s the very first gift you will give to your baby.
Susan /su-san/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced SOO-zun. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Susan is  lily, rose. Short form of Susanna and Susannah. In the apocryphal Book of Tobit, Susannah was a beautiful woman of courage who defended her innocence against wrongful accusation. 
The name Sue is of English origin, and it means Lily . It's a name commonly given to girls. Sue Bird is a basketball biography. 
Hebrew Meaning: The name Susan is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Susan is: Graceful lily. American Meaning: The name Susan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Susan is: Graceful lily. SoulUrge Number: 4. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire for order and physical creativity, and want to be involved in conventional, safe activities.
Sue /sue/ [1 syll.] as a name for girls. Sue's root is Hebrew, and the meaning of the name Sue is lily, rose. Sue is an alternate form of Susan (Hebrew): short variation of Susanna and Susannah. Sui is a popular last name. See also Suellen. Sue is a very prominent first name for women (#197 out of 4276, Top 5%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#17935 out of 150436, Top 12%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Su
The first thing you should know if you are considering Sue for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Sue is a girl name. The name Sue is of Hebrew origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. If you consider naming your baby Sue we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day. Searching for a name is a very important and fun process as it’s the very first gift you will give to your baby.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Sue is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Sue is: Graceful lily. American Meaning: The name Sue is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Sue is: Graceful lily. English Meaning: The name Sue is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Sue is: Lily.. In the apocryphal Book of Tobit Susannah courageously defended herself against wrongful accusation.
All you need is love, Love-Love is all you need. Sue is a French surname and it means Lily flower. 2nd Answerer says: The female given name Sue comes from the Hebrew language Shoshana, meaning a rose or lily, graceful lily. The French version is Susanne or Suzette. 
Susan is a diminutive (nickname) of Susanna. From the hebrew שׁוֹשַׁנָה. Variants of the name Susan include Susane, Susann, Susen, Suson, Sussan, Susuanna, Suzaan, Suzan, Suzann. The names Huhana, Susette are all forms of Susan. Susan has the diminutives (nicknames) Sue, Suse, Susie. Susan falls into the flower name category. Some famous bearers of this name include: Susan Anthony, Susan Butcher. Susan is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Su-san. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 851 in baby name popularity for girls with 321 occurrences. It ranked 13711 in popular baby names for boys with 5