1. A) carbon dioxide B) methane C) water vapor D) CFCs E) nitrous oxide 2. how can marketable emissions permits decrease the amount of a pollutant being generated by industry? A) The environmental defense fund or similar organizations can purchase pollution units and retire them, thus... show more 1. CFCs are produced synthetically, but not through combustion of fossil fuels. The answer is B and D. #2: None of the above, as an emissions market should work in an ideal economic sense anyways.
Typically, conditions that favor formation of N 2 O also favor emissions of methane. 1.4.4 Controls 4,10 NO x Controls-Currently, the two most prevalent combustion control techniques used to reduce NO x emissions from natural gas-fired boilers are flue gas recirculation (FGR) and low NO x burners. 
Coal is mostly carbon. During complete combustion, carbon is oxidised to carbon dioxide: carbon + oxygen → carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas greenhouse gases: the gases responsible for the global warming-carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and CFCs. Increasing concentrations of it in the atmosphere contribute to global warming. Hydrocarbon fuels contain carbon and hydrogen. 
Greenhouse Gases. We noted earlier that water vapor (H2O) and carbon dioxide (CO2) are two of the major greenhouse gases. Both of these molecules are present on Earth naturally, their amounts having evolved to steady levels as a total effect of plant and animal life. There are several other gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect. Of all the greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide is present at the highest concentration by far. Based on 1990 concentrations, carbon dioxide is said to be responsible for almost 60% of the total greenhouse effect when efficiency and concentration are considered.
June 26th, 2012 by U.S. Energy Information Administration. Greenhouse gases trap heat from the sun and warm the planet’s surface. Of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, the majority are related to energy consumption, and most of those are carbon dioxide. From 1990 to 2011, energy-related carbon dioxide emissions in the United States increased by about 0.4% per year.
A greenhouse gas (sometimes abbreviated GHG) is a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. This process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Without greenhouse gases, the average temperature of Earth's surface would be about 15 °C (27 °F) colder than the present average of 14 °C (57 °F). 
Diesel fuel is a mixture of hydrocarbons which—during an ideal combustion process—would produce only carbon dioxide (CO 2) and water vapor (H 2 O). Indeed, diesel exhaust gases are primarily composed of CO 2, H 2 O and the unused portion of engine charge air. Since the adoption of first emission standards, emissions of pollutants from diesel engines have been reduced by as much as two orders of magnitude. More recent emission regulations also introduce emission limits on CO 2 and other greenhouse gases.
Water is still produced, but carbon monoxide and carbon are produced instead of carbon dioxide. In general for incomplete combustion: hydrocarbon + oxygen → carbon monoxide + carbon + water. The carbon is released as soot. 
Water Vapor (H 2 O). Overall, the most abundant and dominant greenhouse gas in the atmosphere is water vapor. Water vapor is neither long-lived nor well mixed in the atmosphere, varying spatially from 0 to 2 percent (IPCC 1996). These tropospheric gases include carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen dioxide (NO 2), sulfur dioxide (SO 2), and tropospheric (ground level) ozone (O 3). Tropospheric ozone is formed by two precursor pollutants, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and nitrogen oxides (NO x) in the presence of ultraviolet light (sunlight).
Most of the pollutants produced when burning coal are also a byproduct of burning oil. - Natural Gas – Natural gas requires much less air in combustion because of its relatively low amounts of carbon and high amounts of hydrogen. The burning of natural gas is cleaner than the burning of oil and coal. 