Made from 100% imported waste paper, Regular Abrasive Kraft Paper is a high strength specialty paper used for the manufacture of coated abrasives like Sand Paper and Emery paper.The paper is available in GSM ranging from 120 to 150 in the reel width of 940 mm and can be supplier in width up 2950 mm as per the... more... Dark Yellow-wet strength abrasive kraft paper has been developed to be used as base paper in coated abrasive industries. The paper has been designed keeping in mind the special requirements of coated abrasive industries and is excellent in providing high dry and wet strength.
Definition. Sandpaper is composed of three layers: a paper, or fabric base, an adhesive, and an abrasive top layer composed of a variety of substances. For sandpaper not used in machine sanding, glue is still used as the adhesive between the backing and abrasive layer, but for sandpapers that have to withstand high heat levels; resin is used as the adhesive.
In simple terms, the abrasive grit is fixed by an adhesive to a backing sheet-the type and size of grit, the type of adhesive and the type of backing material all have an effect on the suitability of a sandpaper for a particular job. 
An abrasive is a material, often a mineral, that is used to shape or finish a workpiece through rubbing which leads to part of the workpiece being worn away. Sandpaper is a very common coated abrasive. Coated abrasives are commonly the same minerals as are used for bonded abrasives. A bonding agent (often some sort of adhesive or resin) is applied to the backing to provide a flat surface to which the grit is then subsequently adhered.
The term sandpaper is a misnomer, since most coated abrasives contain neither sand nor paper. Instead, a typical coated abrasive contains a backing of cotton, polyester, or rayon, with an initial layer of adhesive backing—the make coat—applied to it. The name sandpaper is actually a misnomer, as most coated adhesive products contain neither sand nor paper. Generally, they consist of some type of abrasive mineral, which can be organic or synthetic; flexible backings; and adhesives. Other materials may be added for special applications
A coated abrasive comprises an abrasive fixed to a backing material such as paper, cloth, rubber, resin, polyester or even metal, many of which are flexible. Sandpaper is a very common coated abrasive. Coated abrasives are commonly the same minerals as are used for bonded abrasives. A bonding agent (often some sort of adhesive or resin) is applied to the backing to provide a flat surface to which the grit is then subsequently adhered.
sand•pa•per. 1. strong paper coated with a layer of sand or other abrasive, used for smoothing or polishing. 2. to smooth or polish with sandpaper. Noun. 1. sandpaper-stiff paper coated with powdered emery or sand. emery paper. emery-a hard grey-black mineral consisting of corundum and either hematite or magnetite; used as an abrasive (especially as a coating on paper). abradant, abrasive, abrasive material-a substance that abrades or wears down.
Shark skin has also been used as an abrasive and the rough scales of the living fossil, Coelacanth are used for the same purpose by the natives of Comoros. Boiled and dried, the rough horsetail is used in Japan as a traditional polishing material, finer than sandpaper. Sandpaper may be  stearated  where a dry lubricant is loaded to the abrasive. Stearated papers are useful in sanding coats of finish and paint as the stearate  soap  prevents clogging and increases the useful life of the
This decision is made by the type of abrasive and grit you have selected or the type of process you will be performing with the abrasive. Paper-Used mainly for wood finishing in weights from A, C, D, E and F. A is the lightest weight. Cloth-Produces a flexible backing in a wide range of weights. 