Thrombophlebitis. Thrombophlebitis is an inflammation of a vein, usually in your legs, that becomes swollen due to a blood clot. A blood clot is a solid formation of blood cells that stick together. Blood clots can interfere with the normal flow of blood throughout your body. Although his condition usually occurs in your legs, it is possible to develop thrombophlebitis in other parts of your body. Blood clots can cause swelling in the veins of your neck or arms, but this is rare. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a condition in which you develop a blood clot in a vein deep in your body. This is one of the two types of thrombophlebitis. Thrombophlebitis that affects veins closer to the surface of your skin is called superficial thrombophlebitis
Definition, Symptoms, and Treatment. Phlebitis, or superficial thrombophlebitis, is the inflammation of a vein or a segment of a vein. Phlebitis is often accompanied by clotting, which causes the inflammation. It occurs in superficial (outside the muscle) veins when blood is trapped or clotted. 
Phlebitis Overview. Phlebitis (fle-BYE-tis) means inflammation of a vein. Thrombophlebitis is due to one or more blood clots in a vein that cause inflammation. Thrombophlebitis usually occurs in leg veins, but it may occur in an arm
Phlebitis means inflammation of a vein. Thrombophlebitis refers to a blood clot causing the inflammation. Phlebitis can be superficial, in the skin, or deep, in the tissues beneath the skin. Superficial phlebitis is phlebitis that is in a superficial vein under the surface of the skin. Deep vein thrombophlebitis refers to a blood clot causing phlebitis in the deeper veins. Deep vein thrombophlebitis is also referred to as deep venous thrombophlebitis, deep vein thrombosis (DVT). The presence of superficial phlebitis does not necessary suggest an underlying DVT
Phlebitis or Venitis is the inflammation of a vein, usually in the legs. It most commonly occurs in superficial veins. Phlebitis often occurs in conjunction with thrombosis and is then called  thrombophlebitis  or superficial thrombophlebitis. 
Phlebitis (fle-BYE-tis) is a condition in which a vein becomes inflamed (phleb=vein + it is=inflammation). The inflammation may cause pain and swelling. When the inflammation is caused by a blood clot or thrombus, it is called thrombophlebitis. Thrombophlebitis usually occurs in leg veins, but it may also affect the veins in the arms. There are two sets of veins in the arms and legs, 1) the superficial veins that run just under the skin, and 2) the deep veins. Phlebitis in the deep veins is referred to as deep vein thrombophlebitis (or DVT, deep vein thrombosis) affects the veins located deeper in the arms and legs.
Sometimes superficial phlebitis can be associated with deep vein thrombophlebitis and medical evaluation may be needed. Phlebitis in the deep veins is referred to as deep vein thrombophlebitis (or DVT, deep vein thrombosis) affects the veins located deeper in the arms and legs. Blood clots (thrombi) that form may embolize or break off and travel to the lungs
Thrombophlebitis is inflammation or swelling in leg veins caused by blood clots. Thrombophlebitis can be a complication of varicose veins and can look red, feel warm to the touch and can be painful. With thrombophlebitis, a blocked vein in the leg becomes swollen, irritated, and even hard to the touch. 