1 Before you apply JUBLIA to your affected toenail, remove the cap from the JUBLIA bottle. 2  Hold the bottle directly over the affected toenail and gently squeeze the bottle to apply one drop of JUBLIA onto the toenail. 3  For the big toenail, also apply a second drop to the end of the toenail. Your toenails should be clean and dry before you apply JUBLIA. 1 
Efinaconazole (trade names Jublia or Clenafin) is a triazole antifungal. It is approved for use in Canada and the USA as a 10% topical solution for the treatment of onychomycosis (fungal infection of the nail). Efinaconazole acts as a 14α-demethylase inhibitor. Efinaconazole is not especially effective, but it is currently the best topical treatment available, with cure rates two or three times better than the next best topical treatment, ciclopirox. It is considered a reasonable options for patients with mild cases, or patients who can not take oral treatment.
Jublia is the brand name for efinaconazole, a topical solution that is prescribed to treat onychomycosis, a fungal infection of the toenails. Available only as a solution for adult use, Jublia is applied daily to the toenail with a bottle that has a built-in, flow-through brush applicator. Jublia should not be taken orally or applied to any other part of the body. Jublia was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2014 and is manufactured by Valeant Pharmaceuticals. Valeant Pharmaceuticals acquired Jublia when it purchased Dow Pharmaceutical Sciences in 2008, and the company worked to get FDA approval of the solution.
1 JUBLIA is flammable. 2  Avoid heat and flame while applying JUBLIA to your toenail. 3  JUBLIA may cause irritation at the treated site. 4  The most common side effects include: ingrown toenail, redness, itching, swelling, burning or stinging, blisters, and pain. 1 Avoid heat and flame while applying JUBLIA to your toenail. 2  JUBLIA may cause irritation at the treated site. 3  The most common side effects include: ingrown toenail, redness, itching, swelling, burning or stinging, blisters, and pain.
Jublia (efinaconazole 10% topical solution) is an FDA-approved topical antifungal developed to treat toenail fungus. The bottle comes with a built-in applicator for easy daily use. Unlike other topical remedies that can be messy and require patients to remove excess product, Jublia dries quickly. Toenail fungus is a notoriously difficult foe. Current treatment options include home remedies, topical therapies, oral medication, and laser treatment – but each nail fungus solution has its own set of caveats.
(efinaconazole) Topical Solution, 10%. Important information: JUBLIA is for use on toenails and surrounding skin only. Do not use JUBLIA in your mouth, eyes, or vagina. 
JUBLIA (efinaconazole) Topical Solution, 10% is a prescription medicine used to treat fungal infections of the toenails. 1 Avoid heat and flame while applying JUBLIA to your toenail. 2  JUBLIA may cause irritation at the treated site. 3  The most common side effects include: ingrown toenail, redness, itching, swelling, burning or stinging, blisters, and pain.
1 Use the brush attached to the bottle to gently spread JUBLIA around the entire toenail including: the cuticle, folds of the skin next to the sides of the toenail, and underneath the nail. 2  Do not squeeze the bottle while spreading JUBLIA with the brush. 3  Repeat Steps 2 to 4 to apply JUBLIA to each affected toenail. Your toenails should be clean and dry before you apply JUBLIA. 1  Before you apply JUBLIA to your affected toenail, remove the cap from the JUBLIA bottle. 2  Hold the bottle directly over the affected toenail and gently squeeze the bottle to apply one drop of JUBLIA onto the toenail.
1 JUBLIA may cause irritation at the treated site. 2  The most common side effects include: ingrown toenail, redness, itching, swelling, burning or stinging, blisters, and pain. 3  Tell your doctor about any side effects that bother you or do not go away. 1 Avoid heat and flame while applying JUBLIA to your toenail. 2  JUBLIA may cause irritation at the treated site. 3  The most common side effects include: ingrown toenail, redness, itching, swelling, burning or stinging, blisters, and pain.