1 The two principal types of nucleic acids are deoxyribose nucleic acid (or deoxyribonucleic acid, DNA) and ribose nucleic acid (or ribonucleic acid, RNA). 2  DNA is a polymer. 3  Individual monomer units are called nucleotides. 4  The DNA polymer is composed of: 1 The DNA polymer is composed of: 2  a backbone of molecules of the sugar deoxyribose (a 5 carbon sugar). 3  phosphate groups linking the deoxyribose sugar molecules together in a chain. 4  four principal bases (2 are pyrimidines and 2 are purines):
The monomer units of DNA are nucleotides. Each of these consist of  a 5-carbon sugar which is deoxyribose, a nitrogen containing base  attached to the sugar and a phosphate … group. Judy Olmsted. 78,524 Contributions. Retired college science professor. DNA is a nucleic acid. Nucleic acids are polymers of nucleotides (also called mononucleotides).   The nucleotides in DNA are deoxyribonucleotides.   Each nucleotid … e consists of a pentose (5-carbon) sugar, a nitrogen-containing base and a phosphate group.
The monomers of DNA are called nucleotides, and the polymer is a polynucleotide. There are four different nucleotides in DNA called A, T, G, and C for the nitrogenous base sidegroup (adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine respectively) attached to the sugar-phosphate backbone (deoxyribose-phosphate) of a nucleotide. DNA is a nucleic acid. Nucleic acids are polymers of nucleotides (also called mononucleotides).   The nucleotides in DNA are deoxyribonucleotides.   Each nucleotid … e consists of a pentose (5-carbon) sugar, a nitrogen-containing base and a phosphate group.
Nucleotides. A single nucleotide contains a phosphate group, deoxyribose or ribose (depending on the nucleic acid) and a nitrogen base, which can be adenine, guanine, cytosine … , thymine, and uracil. These monomers combine to form polymers known as DNA or RNA. DNA is a nucleic acid. Nucleic acids are polymers of nucleotides (also called mononucleotides).   The nucleotides in DNA are deoxyribonucleotides.   Each nucleotid … e consists of a pentose (5-carbon) sugar, a nitrogen-containing base and a phosphate group.
The monomer units of DNA are nucleotides. Each of these consist of  a 5-carbon sugar which is deoxyribose, a nitrogen containing base  attached to the sugar and a phosphate … group. Answered. In Biology. Answer by Stevekim012. Confidence votes 16.0K. Nucleotides. A single nucleotide contains a phosphate group, deoxyribose or ribose (depending on the nucleic acid) and a nitrogen base, which can be adenine, guanine, cytosine, thymine, and uracil. These monomers combine to form polymers known as DNA or RNA.
Figure 16.6.Nucleotides The DNA in our cells is a polymer of nucleotides, each of which is composed of a phosphate group, a sugar, and a N-containing base. Key Takeaways Polymers are long molecules composed of chains of units called monomers. 
1 DNA is a polymer. 2  Individual monomer units are called nucleotides. 3  The DNA polymer is composed of: 4  a backbone of molecules of the sugar deoxyribose (a 5 carbon sugar). 5  phosphate groups linking the deoxyribose sugar molecules together in a chain. 1 The DNA polymer is composed of: 2  a backbone of molecules of the sugar deoxyribose (a 5 carbon sugar). 3  phosphate groups linking the deoxyribose sugar molecules together in a chain. 4  four principal bases (2 are pyrimidines and 2 are purines):
1 Nucleic acids are the carriers of genetic codes in living things. 2  The two principal types of nucleic acids are deoxyribose nucleic acid (or deoxyribonucleic acid, DNA) and ribose nucleic acid (or ribonucleic acid, RNA). 3  DNA is a polymer. 4  Individual monomer units are called nucleotides. 1 The DNA polymer is composed of: 2  a backbone of molecules of the sugar deoxyribose (a 5 carbon sugar). 3  phosphate groups linking the deoxyribose sugar molecules together in a chain. 4  four principal bases (2 are pyrimidines and 2 are purines):
A Monomer is an atom or small molecule that may bind chemically to other monomers to form a Polymer (means many parts). A Polymer is defined as a large molecule composed of repeating structural units. Monomer bond together to form polymers during a chemical reaction called Polymerization, where the two molecules link together by sharing electrons. The term monomer came from the Greek word “mono” means “one” and “meros” means “part”