Chytridiomycosis has been linked to dramatic population declines or even extinctions of amphibian species in western North America, Central America, South America, eastern Australia, and Dominica and Montserrat in the Caribbean. Much of the New World is also at risk of the disease arriving within the coming years. 
In this case, this Northern Leopard Frog tested positive for chytridiomycosis. Photo by MNDNR, Laurinda Brown. A number of diseases and malformations are affecting both reptiles (turtles, snakes and lizards) and amphibians (frogs, toads, and salamanders) around the world and in some cases in Minnesota. 
Chytridiomycosis is a serious infectious disease caused by Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, a zoosporic fungus related to water molds. The fungus feeds on keratin, a protein found in the outermost layers of the skin, and survives in most environments, even without a host. An amphibian suffering from chytridiomycosis may shed excessively, develop thickened or pale skin and, in the cases of tadpoles, disfigured beaks. Other common symptoms or signs include: 1  Lethargy. 2  Loss of appetite (anorexia).
Disease: Chytrid. Chytridiomycosis is an infectious disease caused by a fungus. It appears to be a major factor in dramatic amphibian declines in many parts of the world. It is particularly linked with the decline, and extinction, of tropical species. The disease is caused by a fungus – and is often referred to as chytrid or the chytrid fungus – which can potentially kill all of the individuals in a population.
Examples of pathogens causing infectious disease in amphibians include viral, bacterial, water mold, metazoan, trematode, and fungal agents and are associated with varying levels of mortality and population decline (Wright and Whitaker 2001). Overview of Amphibian Diseases. Disease has been implicated as a factor in the decline of amphibian populations worldwide (Blaustein et al. 1994b, Laurance et al. 1996, Berger et al. 1998, Daszak 2000, Kiesecker et al.
Fungal pathogens affecting amphibians include the pathogenic fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), which has been has been implicated as the cause of significant population decline of amphibians in the Americas and Australia (Berger et al. 1998, Carey et al. Overview of Amphibian Diseases. Disease has been implicated as a factor in the decline of amphibian populations worldwide (Blaustein et al. 1994b, Laurance et al. 1996, Berger et al. 1998, Daszak 2000, Kiesecker et al.
Some of the more common amphibian diseases with bacterial etiologies include bacterial dermatosepticemia or red leg syndrome, flavobacteriosis, mycobacteriosis, and chlamydiosis. The most common viral diseases of amphibians are caused by the ranaviruses, which have an impact on many species of anurans and caudates. Mycotic and mycotic-like organisms cause a number of diseases among amphibians, including chytridiomycosis, zygomycoses, chromomycoses, saprolegniasis, and ichthyophoniasis.
Protozoan parasites of amphibians include a variety of amoeba, ciliates, flagellates, and sporozoans Common metazoan parasites include various myxozoans, helminths (particularly trematodes and nematodes), and arthropods. Mycotic and mycotic-like organisms cause a number of diseases among amphibians, including chytridiomycosis, zygomycoses, chromomycoses, saprolegniasis, and ichthyophoniasis.
While many diseases have been observed within amphibian populations, the pathogenic chytrid fungus, Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, has been identified as having severe impacts upon amphibian populations at a number of locations around the world, specifically in Australia (Berger et al. Overview of Amphibian Diseases. Disease has been implicated as a factor in the decline of amphibian populations worldwide (Blaustein et al. 1994b, Laurance et al. 1996, Berger et al. 1998, Daszak 2000, Kiesecker et al.