The cilia in the trachea move in a rhythmatic motion and the mucus produced by gland cells which traps foreign unwanted particles, like bacteria etc, is moved up to the pharyn … x where it is either coughed out or swallowed. 3 people found this useful. The trachea is more commonly known as the windpipe. It is the airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms Helps with air flow. The Trachea, more commonly known t … o be the Wind pipe basically serves as a pathway to your lungs. The air we breath passes through here and to the lungs for oxygenation.
The bronchus in the lungs are lined with hair-like projections called cilia that move microbes and debris up and out of the airways. Scattered throughout the cilia are goblet … cells that secrete mucus which helps protect the lining of the bronchus and trap microorganisms. The trachea is more commonly known as the windpipe. It is the airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms Helps with air flow. The Trachea, more commonly known t … o be the Wind pipe basically serves as a pathway to your lungs. The air we breath passes through here and to the lungs for oxygenation.
Mucus traps solid particles that have made it into the trachea so that the ciliated cells on the wall of the trachea can use their periodic beating motion to gradually move the trapped particles up for clearance. The trachea is more commonly known as the windpipe. It is the airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms Helps with air flow. The Trachea, more commonly known t … o be the Wind pipe basically serves as a pathway to your lungs. The air we breath passes through here and to the lungs for oxygenation.
An example of motile cilia can be found in humans in the lining of the windpipe, where they sweep mucus and dirt out of the lungs. Normally a cell only has one non-motile cilium. There are some cells in the body that have a specialized primary cilium which have a very important job to do. There are two types of cilia, motile cilia (moving cilia) and non-motile cilia. Motile cilia constantly beat in a single direction, whilst non-motile cilia typically sense the cells’ environment. Non-motile cilia are often referred to as ‘primary’ cilia.
The lumen of the trachea is lined by pseudostratified columnar epithelium. Note that all the surface cells have cilia at their free (apical) surface. (What function do these cilia serve in the trachea?) Mucus-secreting unicellular gland cells (goblet cells) are interspersed among the ciliated cells.
1 Motile cilia are found on the surface of cells and they beat in a rhythmic manner. 2  They can be found in the lining of the trachea (windpipe), where they sweep mucus and dirt out of the lungs. 3  In female mammals, the beating of cilia in the fallopian tubes moves the ovum from the ovary to the uterus. 
1 In humans, for example, motile cilia are found in the lining of the trachea (windpipe), where they sweep mucus and dirt out of the lungs. 2  In female mammals, the beating of cilia in the Fallopian tubes moves the ovum from the ovary to the uterus. In comparison to motile cilia, non-motile (or primary) cilia usually occur one per cell; nearly all mammalian cells have a single non-motile primary cilium. In addition, examples of specialized primary cilia can be found in human sensory organs such as the eye and the nose:
Larger eukaryotes, such as mammals, have motile cilia as well. Motile cilia are usually present on a cell's surface in large numbers and beat in coordinated waves. 1  In humans, for example, motile cilia are found in the lining of the trachea (windpipe), where they sweep mucus and dirt out of the lungs. In comparison to motile cilia, non-motile (or primary) cilia usually occur one per cell; nearly all mammalian cells have a single non-motile primary cilium. In addition, examples of specialized primary cilia can be found in human sensory organs such as the eye and the nose:
Source: Amelia Shoemark. ' Motile ' (or moving) cilia are found in the lungs, respiratory tract and middle ear. These cilia have a rhythmic waving or beating motion (see right). They work, for instance, to keep the airways clear of mucus and dirt, allowing us to breathe easily and without irritation. They also help propel sperm. 
The cilia in the trachea move in a rhythmatic motion and the mucus produced by gland cells which traps foreign unwanted particles, like bacteria etc, is moved up to the pharyn … x where it is either coughed out or swallowed. 3 people found this useful. some cells in this lining secrete a sticky liquid called mucus, which traps particles of dirt or bacteria that are breathed in. Other cells are covered with timy hair-like str … uctures called cilia. It sweeps the mucus and trapped particles out toward the mouth.