Kansas Business Center The Kansas Business Center is your official Kansas state resource for information, filings, and personal assistance to start or maintain a Kansas business. If you’re thinking about starting a business, the Kansas Business Center is a one-stop-shop for the information and resources you’ll need in order to do business legally in Kansas. This site will help you assess financing, licensing, permitting, and legal options.
You do not have to be married in the county where your license was issued. If you do not marry before the expiration date of the license, the license becomes void, resulting in the need to apply and purchase a new license before you can be married. If you have questions, please contact the office of the Clerk of the District Court at 913-684-0700. Office hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Registering Your Business. Congratulations on your decision start a new business. We are pleased that you have chosen the State of Kansas to start and grow your business. The Planning Your Business section was meant to help you learn about resources and filing requirements. The link below will take you directly to links and forms required to comply with Kanas law.
Depending on the type of business you have, you may need to file for a Federal Tax Identification Number or you may need to use your Social Security number. You will also need to search for your name registration. This can be done through the business name search on the official website of the State of Kansas. There are a few cities that do not require a city business license. An example would be the city of Overland Park. It is best to contact your local city/county to find out if they have a business license requirement.
If you plan on operating your business in Kansas, you may first need to register your business. Kansas does not have a General Business License.. However, a business must register with the state of Kansas Department of Revenue and file a business tax application for certain types of businesses. There are a few cities that do not require a city business license. An example would be the city of Overland Park. It is best to contact your local city/county to find out if they have a business license requirement.
Registering a business and procuring necessary licenses to operate legally is an important part of being a business owner. We can help you navigate the legal requirements to do business in Kansas. Contact us directly for free, confidential assistance, or use the resources below as a guide. If you’re thinking about starting a business, the Kansas Business Center is a one-stop-shop for the information and resources you’ll need in order to do business legally in Kansas. This site will help you assess financing, licensing, permitting, and legal options.
Business. The Kansas Business Center is your one-stop shop for starting and maintaining a business in Kansas. Choose an option below for more information about planning a business, registering a business, operating a business, closing a business, and moving a business to Kansas. We are pleased that you have chosen the State of Kansas to start and grow your business. The Planning Your Business section was meant to help you learn about resources and filing requirements. The link below will take you directly to links and forms required to comply with Kanas law.
Elections & Voters. You may register to vote at Leavenworth City Hall, Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. According to the Voter Registration Instructions issued by the Office of the Kansas Secretary of the State to register to vote you must: 1  be a U.S. citizen and a resident of the State of Kansas; 
KS Tax ID The Kansas Department of Revenue is in charge of the state taxes. If you have any questions about the Kansas tax responsibilities for your business, you can contact the KDOR directly at (785) 368-8222 then select: (options 5, then 2). If you’re thinking about starting a business, the Kansas Business Center is a one-stop-shop for the information and resources you’ll need in order to do business legally in Kansas. This site will help you assess financing, licensing, permitting, and legal options.
If you plan on doing business in Kansas, you may need to obtain a business license through the city in which you operate. There are a few cities that do not require a city business license. An example would be the city of Overland Park. It is best to contact your local city/county to find out if they have a business license requirement.