1 EDC by LMP is calculated by adding 280 days (40 weeks) to the first day of the last menstrual period. 2  Gestation by LMP is calculated from the first day of the last menstrual period. 3  Gestation by CRL is calculated: Weeks = 5.2876 + (0.1584 * Crown_Rump_Length) - (0.0007 * Crown_Rump_Length 2). 1 Gestation by LMP is calculated from the first day of the last menstrual period. 2  Gestation by CRL is calculated: Weeks = 5.2876 + (0.1584 * Crown_Rump_Length) - (0.0007 * Crown_Rump_Length 2). 3  This will be gestation at time of ultrasound. 4  Gestation by BPD is calculated using the formula: Days = 2 * BPD + 44.2.
The Crown Rump Length (CRL) measurement in a 6 week gestation.A mass of fetal cells, separate from the yolk sac, first becomes apparent on transvaginal ultrasound just after the 6th week of gestation. This mass of cells is known as the fetal pole. After 12 weeks, the accuracy of CRL in predicting gestational age diminishes and is replaced by measurement of the fetal biparietal diameter. In at least some respects, the term crown rump length is misleading: There is no fetal crown and no fetal rump to measure for most of the first trimester.
sonogram ultrasound measurements crown rump length (CRL). The fetal crown rump length (CRL) is defined as the longest length excluding the limbs and yolk sac. It is the measurement between the top of the head to the area above where the legs begin and is done by ultrasound usually up to the 14th week of the pregnancy. The original definition of a crown rump length (CRL) was by Mall in 1907. The CRL is the sitting height, mid brain to the lowest point of breech.
Crown–rump length (CRL) is the most commonly used fetal measurement for pregnancy dating in the first trimester. The first equation that correlated CRL with GA was reported by Robinson and Fleming in 1975. Several studies proposing and validating different CRL equations have been reported since then. 
An ultrasound showing a fetus measured to have a crown-rump length of 1.67 cm, and estimated to have a gestational age of 8 weeks and 1 day. Crown-rump length (CRL) is the measurement of the length of human embryos and fetuses from the top of the head (crown) to the bottom of the buttocks (rump). It is typically determined from ultrasound imagery and can be used to estimate gestational age. The length of the umbilical cord is approximately equal to the CRL throughout pregnancy. Gestational age is not the same as fertilization age. It takes about 14 days from the first day of the last menstrual period for conception to take place and thus for the conceptus to form.
Crown rump length. Dr Matt A. Morgan ◉ and Dr Frank Gaillard ◉ et al. Crown rump length (CRL) is the most accurate estimation of gestational age in early pregnancy, and is measured from 6-13 weeks gestational age. It is an accurate measurement because there is little biological variability at that time. The earlier in pregnancy a scan is performed, the more accurate the age assignment from crown rump length 4. If the original CRL measurement was adequate, the measurement is considered the baseline for all subsequent age measurements.
From 6 to 11 weeks gestational age, the fetal CRL grows at a rate of about 1 mm per day. Crown Rump Length: Gestational age = 6 weeks plus (CRL x days). For example, a CRL of 23 mm would correspond to a gestational age of 9 weeks and two days (6 weeks plus 23 days = 9 weeks and 2 days). At the first trimester scan they confirm that the fetus is alive, they assess the gestational age by measuring the crown-rump length and will look for any major problems. This is a routine ultrasound examination done at 10 to 14 weeks of gestation.