One study by the Workplace Bullying Institute, for example, found that female office bullies, who commit verbal abuse, sabotage performance or hurt relationships, aim at other women more than 70% of the time. (Male workplace bullies, by contrast, tend to be equal-opportunity offenders, targeting both men and women.).
While men tend to target male and female employees equally, women bosses are likely to aim their hostility toward other women more than 70 percent of the time, according to a survey by the Workplace Bullying Institute.
According to a survey by the Workplace Bullying Institute, when women bully other women in the workplace they -- get this -- choose other women as their targets in approximately 70 percent of cases. Yep, you read that correctly, 3 out of 4 times women select their female co-workers as their victims. Hello middle school.
According to the Workplace Bullying Institute (WBI), 60 percent of bullies at work are men, but they don’t tend to discriminate which gender they bully. On the other hand, 70 percent of the victims of women bullies are women, reported the New York Times on Sunday. Most people are aware of it, but prefer to ignore it.
What attracts the media to woman-on-woman (WOW) bullying is the fact that women are targeted at a higher rate by female bullies (71%) than by male bullies (46%). Yes, women are crueler to women than they are to men, and that must be explained. But don’t forget that 60% of all bullies are men.
But a good 40 percent of bullies are women. And at least the male bullies take an egalitarian approach, mowing down men and women pretty much in equal measure. The women appear to prefer their own kind, choosing other women as targets more than 70 percent of the time.
As is the case with all workplace bullying, it’s discrimination and a major contributor to lost productivity. A study this year by the Workplace Bullying Institute, an advocacy group, found that 30% of office bullies were women — and they targeted other women more than two-thirds of the time.
Many women are afraid to confront their bullying bosses and suffer in silence, said Gary Namie, a psychologist and founder of the Workplace Bullying Institute. You should not have to risk clinical depression, debilitating anxiety, or -- and as 30 percent of women experience -- post-traumatic stress disorder.