Japonisme and the Rise of the Modern Art Movement: The Arts of the Meiji Period, Gregory Irvine (Editor), THAMES & HUDSON. 
From the 1860s through to the 1890s the rise of Japonisme and the Art Nouveau movement meant few could resist the obsession with all things Japanese. ‘In a way all my work is founded on Japanese art …’ Vincent van Gogh. Van Gogh himself stated that he owed his inspiration to Japanese art, but he was probably not conscious of the full extent to which art in Europe had already been greatly influenced by that of Japan. Gregory Irvine is Senior Curator in the Asian department of the Victoria and Albert Museum, London.
Orientalism is a term that is used by art historians, literary and cultural studies scholars for the imitation or depiction of aspects in Middle Eastern, South Asian, African and East Asian cultures (Eastern cultures). These depictions are usually done by writers, designers and artists from the West. 
Large number of artifacts came to the West and were exhibited and sold to an eager audience. Japonism (from the French Japonisme, first used in 1872) is the influence of Japanese art, fashion and aesthetics on Western culture. French collectors, writers, and art critics undertook many voyages to Japan in the 1870s and 1880s, leading to the publication of articles about Japanese aesthetics and the increased distribution of Edo era prints in Europe, especially in France.
Japonisme and the Rise of the Modern Art Movement: The Arts of the Meiji Period, The Khalili Collection. Share. Edited by Gregory Irvine, foreword by Professor Nasser D. Khalili, Thames and Hudson, 2013, 240 pages, 22 colour illustrations, ISBN 978 0 500 239131, £45. Review by Sir Hugh Cortazzi. In the Meiji period art products constituted a significant element in Japanese exports to western countries. The Japanese government made various efforts to promote such exports as one way of reducing Japan’s trade deficit with the West.
Japonisme is a French term coined in the late nineteenth century to describe the craze for Japanese art and design in the West. 
Japonisme-A style in French and American nineteenth century art that was highly influenced by Japanese art, especially prints. Paul Gauguin artwork often showed an influence of Japonisme. Japonisme. A French term also spelled Japonism, used to describe the influence of Japanese Art s on those of the West. First used by Jules Claretie in the book L’Art Francais in 1872.
Japonism also involved the adoption of Japanese elements or style across all the applied arts, from furniture, textiles and jewellery to graphic design. Recent scholarship has shown that the influence of Japanese visual art on early Modernist experiments in Western literature was also highly significant. French collectors, writers, and art critics undertook many voyages to Japan in the 1870s and 1880s, leading to the publication of articles about Japanese aesthetics and the increased distribution of Edo era prints in Europe, especially in France.
Arts of the Meiji period (1868-1912) were displayed at international exhibitions, in the galleries of influential dealers and at fashionable stores. Artists from van Gogh, Whistler, Monet, and Edouard Manet to Klimt and Schiele were all, to varying degrees, influenced by the Japanese art. 
Many characteristics of Japanese art influenced these artists. In the Japonisme stage, they were more interested in the asymmetry and irregularity of Japanese art. Japanese art consisted of off-centered arrangements with no perspective, light with no shadows, and vibrant colors on plain surfaces. French collectors, writers, and art critics undertook many voyages to Japan in the 1870s and 1880s, leading to the publication of articles about Japanese aesthetics and the increased distribution of Edo era prints in Europe, especially in France.