Definition of EPISTEMOLOGY. : the study or a theory of the nature and grounds of knowledge especially with reference to its limits and validity. — epis·te·mo·log·i·cal \-mə-ˈlae-ˈlä-ji\ kəl. — adjective·epis·te·mo·log·i·cal \-ly(k-)ə\ lē. — adverb·epis·te·mol·o \-gist-ˈmae-ˈmä\ lə. JIST. noun advertisement : the study or a theory of the nature and grounds of knowledge especially with reference to its limits and validity. — epis·te·mo·log·i·cal \-mə-ˈlae-ˈlä-ji\ kəl. — adjective·epis·te·mo·log·i·cal \-ly(k-)ə\ lē. — adverb·epis·te·mol·o \-gist-ˈmae-ˈmä\ lə. jist noun
The theory of knowledge, especially with regard to its methods, validity, and scope, and the distinction between justified belief and opinion. Example sentences. 1  The turn from epistemology to ontology was taken before Heidegger by Nicolai Hartmann. 
Epistemology. Epistemology is the study of knowing. It deals with the nature of knowledge, how do we know things, what do we know, why we know, is what we know true, and what are the limits of knowledge. It is true that we know things. You know you are reading this. 
The word epistemology is derived from the Greek epistēmē meaning knowledge and logos meaning speech or word, in this context denoting codified knowledge of. This is distinguished from  knowledge how  and  acquaintance-knowledge . For example: in mathematics, it is known that 2 + 2 = 4, but there is also knowing how to add two numbers and knowing a person (e.g., oneself), place (e.g., one's hometown), thing (e.g., cars), or activity (e.g., addition).
There is some difficulty in connecting this epistemological definition of data with our psychological analysis of knowledge; but until such a connection has been effected, we have no right to use the conception data. 
What is Positivist Epistemology. 1. Also referred to as “positivism,” refers to the school of research thought that sees observable evidence as the only form of defensible scientific findings. 
Defining Knowledge. A primary concern of epistemology is the very definition of knowledge itself. The traditional definition, since Plato, is that knowledge is justified true belief, but recent evaluations of the concept have shown supposed counterexamples to this definition. Epistemology. Epistemology is the area of philosophy that is concerned with knowledge. The main concerns of epistemology are the definition of knowledge, the sources of knowledge (innate ideas, experience, ), the process of acquiring knowledge and the limits of knowledge. Epistemology considers that knowledge can be obtained through experience and/or reas
Put concisely, it is the study of knowledge and justified belief. It questions what knowledge is and how it can be acquired, and the extent to which knowledge pertinent to any given subject or entity can be acquired. This is distinguished from  knowledge how  and  acquaintance-knowledge . For example: in mathematics, it is known that 2 + 2 = 4, but there is also knowing how to add two numbers and knowing a person (e.g., oneself), place (e.g., one's hometown), thing (e.g., cars), or activity (e.g., addition).
In epistemology in general, the kind of knowledge usually discussed is propositional knowledge, also known as knowledge that.. This is distinguished from  knowledge how  and  acquaintance-knowledge . For example: in mathematics, it is known that 2 + 2 = 4, but there is also knowing how to add two numbers and knowing a person (e.g., oneself), place (e.g., one's hometown), thing (e.g., cars), or activity (e.g., addition).