Start with yellow cake mix and Mandarin oranges to make this cake with a frosting made with pineapple, pudding mixture, and whipped topping. Canned and fresh fruit are mixed into a lovely orange cream concoction made form vanilla pudding, milk, orange concentrate and sour cream. Sweet mandarin oranges, crunchy almonds, fresh green onion, and crispy bacon are all tossed together with red leaf lettuce and a light honey mustard vinaigrette. Oh, so good and refreshing.
Nutrition information for Mandarin oranges and tips on how to select, store and prepare them. Health Benefits. [All Fruits] [All Vegetables]. “Mandarin oranges” is a term that applies to an entire group of citrus fruits. This group includes such varieties as Satsuma, Clemetine, Dancy, Honey, Pixie, and tangerines in general. 
Mandarins give a boost of vitamin C. Whether you call them mandarin oranges, tangerines or clementines, they’re all different varieties that belong to the mandarin family. Mandarins are smaller than oranges and have a looser skin, which makes them easier to peel. Like all members of the citrus family, they provide a boost of vitamins and minerals, yet have few calories and not even 1 gram of fat.
description. DOLE Mandarin Oranges in 100% juice bring the freshness of DOLE fruit together with 100% juice for a fresh and delicious taste! Benefits.
Sweet little Mandarin oranges are tasty whether canned or fresh. Mandarins are an entire family of small pumpkin-shaped oranges that includes the tangerine, clementine, and satsuma. Fresh Mandarins: For Snacking or Cooking. Mandarins are easy to slip out of their skins, which are thin and fit loosely around the fruit.
Mandarin oranges also contain the carotenoids beta-carotene, lutein and zeaxanthin. Beta-carotene functions as an antioxidant, but it can also be converted into retinol, which is the form of vitamin A used by cells in the eyes for vision and to support the immune system. Mandarins are smaller than oranges and have a looser skin, which makes them easier to peel. Like all members of the citrus family, they provide a boost of vitamins and minerals, yet have few calories and not even 1 gram of fat.
You can count on mandarin oranges to provide vitamin C, with 1 cup of orange segments delivering 28 percent of the recommended daily intake. Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant that neutralizes free radicals, including those resulting from exposure to sunlight. Mandarins are smaller than oranges and have a looser skin, which makes them easier to peel. Like all members of the citrus family, they provide a boost of vitamins and minerals, yet have few calories and not even 1 gram of fat.
The mandarin (Citrus reticulata), also known as the mandarine, is a small citrus tree with fruit resembling other oranges. Mandarin are usually eaten plain or in fruit salads. Specifically reddish-orange mandarin cultivars can be marketed as tangerines, but this is not a botanical classification.
37: Easily-peeled Mandarin oranges (Citrus reticulata) are ideal for eating out-of-hand and very popular in Central America. Origin and Distribution The mandarin orange is considered a native of south-eastern Asia and the Philippines. It is most abundantly grown in Japan, southern China, India, and the East Indies, and is esteemed for home consumption in Australia. Climate Mandarin oranges are much more cold-hardy than the sweet orange, and the tree is more tolerant of drought. The fruits are tender and readily damaged by cold. Varieties Mandarin cultivars fall into several classes: Class I, Mandarin: 'Changsa' brilliant orange-red; sweet, but insipid; seedy.
Thin, pebbly skin. Mandarins are smaller and less spherical than common oranges (which are a mandarin hybrid). The taste is considered less sour, as well as sweeter and stronger. A ripe mandarin is firm to slightly soft, heavy for its size, and pebbly-skinned. Mandarin are usually eaten plain or in fruit salads. Specifically reddish-orange mandarin cultivars can be marketed as tangerines, but this is not a botanical classification.