Jaw Fractures. Jaw fractures are a very common problem in veterinary practice. The lower jaws (the left and right mandibles), or the upper maxillas (left and right facial bones) may be fractured (broken). When there is a fracture of the upper maxillas, the fracture may be obvious, or extremely subtle.
I took her to the vet and he said that she had a broken jaw and could wire it shut to fix it, but it's expencieve. Here is the problem... My parents... show more You see my boyfriend and I have been keeping two of my parents dogs for the last week. Report Abuse. No.. a broken jaw will not heal itself and eventually, the jaw will lock up and your dog will not be able to eat. Sorry to be so blunt, but it brings me back to a time when I worked for a vet.
For most adult dogs or cats, broken bone healing time is 8 to 12 weeks. In puppies or kittens, broken bone healing time is 6 to 9 weeks. Complicated fractures can take as much as 16 weeks. Delayed Union and Non-Union Fractures. Age: Younger dogs or cats heal faster. They are already producing new bone in order to grow, and the cellular /chemical processes for growing bone are the same as those needed to heal a fracture; enzymatic momentum is on their side.
have you taken your dog to the vet?? depending in where the break is and what treatment is done will depend on how long it takes to heal. if it is a minor break then sometimes a cast will work but can be on for around 8-10 weeks. Broken bones heal faster in puppies, but in older dogs it can easily take 3 months or more. Depending on the location & type of break, whether it needed to be pinned or have a plate put in. All these questions can be answered by the vet who is treating your dog's broken leg. Source(s): miaugh · 7 years ago.
The maxilla forms the upper jaw (maxilla) and holds the upper teeth in place, whereas, the mandible, also called the jawbone, forms the lower jaw and holds the lower teeth in place. Fractures of the upper jaw and lower jaw (mandible) are mostly seen in dogs due to injury or trauma. 
Broken Bones in Dogs. Most fractures tend to be caused by car accidents and falls from a height. The dogs bones most commonly broken are the femur, pelvis, skull, jaw, and spine. Fractures are classified as open or closed. In an open fracture (also called a compound fracture), a wound exposes the dogs bone. Often the bone is seen sticking through the skin. 
The average healing time for a broken jaw is six weeks. If the fractured segments of the jaw are properly aligned and undisturbed during healing, the jaw should heal and be as strong as in was before the fracture occurred. The pain will be a pulsating throb with occasional sharp pangs. A broken jaw is also likely if your jaw sticks out farther than normal or is indented. There will be swelling on the side of the face where the jaw is broken.
I took her to the vet and he said that she had a broken jaw and could wire it shut to fix it, but it's expencieve. Here is the problem... My parents never intended to keep the little dog, she's a bit active, they were going to take her to the pound. Report Abuse. No.. a broken jaw will not heal itself and eventually, the jaw will lock up and your dog will not be able to eat. Sorry to be so blunt, but it brings me back to a time when I worked for a vet.
Only the nose is broken more frequently. A broken jaw is the 10th most common fractured bone in the human body. Fractures (breaks in the bone) are generally the result of a direct force or trauma to the jawbone (mandible). A dislocated jawbone means that the temporomandibular joint (where the jaw connects with the skull) is moved out of place.