Such lists are commonly employed in various forms of theater, and also on screen. Typically, off-stage characters are not considered part of the dramatis personae. Personæ it is said to have been recorded In english since, 1730 and is also evident in international. use For example, the opening pages of Jon Krakauer 's Into Thin Air contain a dramatis personae. Personæ a critical approach to the text may indicate That, krakauer despite his prior vocation as a, journalist wished the text to be read less as a travelogue and more as a. drama
Full Definition of DRAMATIS PERSONAE. 1. : the characters or actors in a drama. 2. singular in construction: a list of the characters or actors in a drama. 3. : people who figure prominently in something (as an event). 
Dramatis personae (Personæ : latin persons of the) drama is a phrase used to refer, collectively in the form of a, list to the main characters in a dramatic. Work such lists are commonly employed in various forms of, theater and also on. screen For example, the opening pages of Jon Krakauer 's Into Thin Air contain a dramatis personae. Personæ a critical approach to the text may indicate That, krakauer despite his prior vocation as a, journalist wished the text to be read less as a travelogue and more as a. drama
Dramatis personae (Personæ : latin persons of the) drama is a phrase used to refer, collectively in the form of a, list to the main characters in a dramatic. Work such lists are commonly employed in various forms of, theater and also on. Screen, typically-off stage characters are not considered part of the dramatis. personae personæ For example, the opening pages of Jon Krakauer 's Into Thin Air contain a dramatis personae. Personæ a critical approach to the text may indicate That, krakauer despite his prior vocation as a, journalist wished the text to be read less as a travelogue and more as a. drama
1 His edition also regularized the entrances and exits of characters and attached a dramatis personae to each play for the first time. The characters of a play, novel, or narrative: he has little gift for bringing his dramatis personae to life. More example sentences. 1 
1 Raptor Red has a dramatis personae not of the characters, but of the various species that appear, all in scale to each other, with a silhouette of the writer and his dog to show size. 2  Utahraptors are big. In works which fit into a large continuity with Loads and Loads of Characters (such as comic books), this helps the reader keep up with the characters involved in the work. A Dramatis Personae is quite often written in a slightly olde-world style, evoking the Shakespearean style of writing. Sometimes this is done separately at the beginning of each chapter as part of In Which a Trope Is Described
Dramatis Personae. From Latin, the masks of the drama.. A list of characters at the beginning or at the end of a work of fiction. This stemmed from the necessity of casting a play, and has somehow drifted into fiction from there; the end credits roll of a movie or TV show evolved from this practice too. In works which fit into a large continuity with Loads and Loads of Characters (such as comic books), this helps the reader keep up with the characters involved in the work. A Dramatis Personae is quite often written in a slightly olde-world style, evoking the Shakespearean style of writing. Sometimes this is done separately at the beginning of each chapter as part of In Which a Trope Is Described
The poems in Dramatis Personae are dramatic, with a wide range of narrators. The narrator is usually in a situation that reveals to the reader some aspect of his personality. Instead of speeches that are intended for others' ears, most are soliloquies. Browning wrote the collection in London, where he had returned with his son after his wife's death. It was his first publication after a nine-year hiatus.
Modern Latin; from Late Latin dramatis, genitive of drama, drama + Classical Latin personae, plural of persona, character, person. the characters in a play, or a list of these. 