Prescription Requirements. The same deduction rules apply for prescribed over-the-counter medicine and regular prescription drugs. The prescription must be written or transmitted to the pharmacy electronically by a medical professional with the legal authority to prescribe medication. So if a doctor tells you to take 100 mg of aspirin every day, and you go buy a bottle of 100 mg tablets at a drugstore, the cost isn't deductible. But it is deductible if the doctor writes you a prescription for the same bottle.
If so, you may be eligible for the medical expense deduction. In total, you must spend more than 10% (7.5% if you are age 65 or older) of your Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) on medical expenses in order to possibly benefit from the tax break. Don’t forget to include the cost of insulin and prescription drugs – but note that over-the-counter (OTC) medicines are not deductible. Perhaps somewhat surprisingly, OTC equipment and supplies can be deductible, however.
Prescribing Non-Prescription Drugs. According to the Internal Revenue Service, any medicine prescribed for you by a medical professional is tax-deductible even if such drug is available without a prescription — in other words, available over-the-counter. So if a doctor tells you to take 100 mg of aspirin every day, and you go buy a bottle of 100 mg tablets at a drugstore, the cost isn't deductible. But it is deductible if the doctor writes you a prescription for the same bottle.
You can deduct only the portion of your medical costs, including deductible copays on medicine purchases, that exceeds a specified percentage of your adjusted gross income. In 2012, the threshold was 7.5 percent, but in 2013 it was skated ti increased to 10 percent. To be deductible as a medical expense, the medicine must usually be prescribed by a doctor. For example, if you make a copay when your doctor prescribes ibuprofen, you can include those costs. However, if you don't have a prescription and get an over-the-counter medication, you can't include that cos
Save. leaf/iStock/Getty Images. In general, over-the-counter drugs are not a tax-deductible medical expense. However, the tax code specifically includes an exception for insulin, which is available over the counter in some formulations in some states. So if a doctor tells you to take 100 mg of aspirin every day, and you go buy a bottle of 100 mg tablets at a drugstore, the cost isn't deductible. But it is deductible if the doctor writes you a prescription for the same bottle.
AGI Threshold. The medical and dental expenses deduction, which includes insulin, only allows you to write off your costs that exceed a specified portion of your adjusted gross income. In 2012, the threshold is 7.5 percent, but will increase to 10 percent in 2013. 
If you itemize your deductions for a taxable year on Form 1040, Schedule A (PDF), you may be able to deduct expenses you paid that year for medical and dental care for yourself, your spouse and your dependents. If you do not claim 100% of your self-employed health insurance deduction, you can include the remaining premiums with your other medical expenses as an itemized deduction on Form 1040, Schedule A (PDF).
There's good news and bad news if you use over-the-counter medications. IRS rules for medical expense deductions do not allow non-prescription drugs to be deducted on Schedule A. The one exception to that rule is insulin. You may deduct the cost of insulin, even though it does not require a prescription. If you use other OTC drugs, don't give up yet. If you have a health flexible spending account or health savings account you might be able to purchase over-the-counter drugs using those pre-tax dollars.
Expenses for special schools for disabled individuals are eligible for the medical expense write-off as well. Don’t forget to include the cost of insulin and prescription drugs – but note that over-the-counter (OTC) medicines are not deductible. Perhaps somewhat surprisingly, OTC equipment and supplies can be deductible, however. Other deductible medical expenses include: 1  Contact lenses and laser surgery. 2  Crutches