Bronchi are plural for bronchus and represent the passageways leading into the lungs. A bronchus, which is also known as a main or primary bronchus, represents the airway in the respiratory tract that conducts air into the lungs. Bronchi will branch into smaller tubes that become bronchioles.
The terminal bronchi and alveoli are located at the very end of the conducting zone and the beginning of the respiratory zone in the respiratory system. The bronchi (or bronchus) are the air passages into the lungs that begin at the end of the trachea. There are two bronchi, one for each lung. The bronchus divide into smaller branches known as segmental bronchi, which divide again into bronchioles, and then again into terminal bronchioles. 
The lungs' tertiary bronchi are also called the segmental bronchi. They branch out from the secondary bronchi, which descend from the mainstream bronchi. Lower in the lung, they become smaller and break up into the primary bronchioles. Each tertiary bronchus serves a particular bronchopulmonary segment. 
Definition of BRONCHUS. : either of the two primary divisions of the trachea that lead respectively into the right and the left lung; broadly: bronchial tube. 
A bronchus, also known as a main or primary bronchus, is a passage of airway in the respiratory tract that conducts air into the lungs. There is a right bronchus and a left bronchus and these bronchi branch into smaller secondary and tertiary bronchi which branch into smaller tubes, known as bronchioles. No gas exchange takes place in the bronchi. The secondary bronchi divide further into tertiary bronchi, (also known as segmental bronchi), each of which supplies a bronchopulmonary segment. A bronchopulmonary segment is a division of a lung separated from the rest of the lung by a septum of connective tissue.
The segmental bronchi divide into many smaller bronchioles that divide into terminal bronchioles, and then into respiratory bronchioles, which divide into 2 to 11 alveolar ducts. Each alveolar duct has 5 or 6 associated alveolar sacs. The alveolus is the basic anatomic unit of gas exchange. A bronchus, which is also known as a main or primary bronchus, represents the airway in the respiratory tract that conducts air into the lungs. Bronchi will branch into smaller tubes that become bronchioles.
Bronchi are the main passageway into the lungs. When someone takes a breath through their nose or mouth, the air travels into the larynx. The next step is through the trachea, which carries the air to the left and right bronchus. The bronchi become smaller the closer they get to the lung tissue and are then considered bronchioles.
Glossary of Terms. Bronchus / Bronchi / Bronchioles. The airways of the lungs. When a person takes in a breath of air, the air travels through the nose or mouth, into the larynx, then into the trachea, which is the main passageway into the lungs. The trachea divides into a right and left main bronchus.
A bronchus is one of the large tubes that lead from the human trachea to the lungs. There is one large bronchus in each lung that branches out into smaller bronchi within the lungs. Bronchi carry air into and out of the lungs. The respiratory system begins at the nose and mouth, which meet at the pharynx. At the bottom of the pharynx are the esophagus, for food, and the trachea, for air.
The left main bronchus divides into two secondary or lobar bronchi to deliver air to the two lobes of the left lung—the superior and the inferior lobe. The secondary bronchi divide further into tertiary bronchi, (also known as segmental bronchi), each of which supplies a bronchopulmonary segment. A bronchopulmonary segment is a division of a lung separated from the rest of the lung by a septum of connective tissue.