Black hairy tongue typically results when projections on the tongue called papillae grow longer and don't shed like normal. This makes the tongue look hairy. Debris, bacteria or other organisms can collect on the papillae and result in discoloration. The cause of black hairy tongue can't always be determined. However, potential causes include: 1  Changes in the normal bacteria or yeast content of the mouth following antibiotic use. 2  Poor oral hygiene. 3  Dry mouth (xerostomia). 4  Medications containing bismuth, such as Pepto-Bismol
Black hairy tongue (BHT, also termed lingua villosa nigra) refers to a condition of the tongue where the filiform papillae elongate with black or brown discoloration, giving a black and hairy appearance. The appearance may be alarming, but it is a harmless condition. 
Causes of Black Tongue Photo Credit morguefile. Black tongue is a condition in which the tongue has a black appearance. The tongue could also have a brown or yellow discoloration. It is a condition that is not dangerous and usually goes away without medical attention. There can be other symptoms associated with black tongue, including a fuzzy or hairy appearance to the tongue and bad breath. The oral use of medications that contain bismuth can cause black tongue. Heavy tobacco usage can cause black tongue, too. These causes change the chemistry in the tongue, which can result in substances that give the tongue
A black hairy tongue is caused by too much bacteria or yeast growth in the mouth. The bacteria build up on tiny rounded projections called papillae. But the tongue can also turn brown, yellow, green, or a variety of other colors. Certain lifestyle habits and conditions can make people more likely to develop black hairy tongue. They include: 1  poor oral hygiene. 2  smoking tobacco.
A black tongue is usually a harmless condition that can be caused by medications, smoking, poor oral hygiene, soft diet, or dry mouth. A black tongue is usually associated with elongated tongue papillae and thus, it is called black hairy tongue  (lingua villosa nigra). The cause is thought to be a change in the normal bacteria in the mouth after antibiotic treatment or use of products that contain bismuth such as Pepto-Bismol. 
Black tongue, also known as melanoglossia, is a condition in which the surface of the tongue turns dark or black. It may also become rough and develop a hairy appearance, in which case the condition may be known as black hairy tongue. There are a number of causes for black tongue. It can be caused by an overgrowth of fungi or bacteria in the mouth, in which case drugs may be needed to limit the growth, and it has been linked with a number of medications, including antibiotics and drugs that contain bismuth.
PREVIOUS. NEXT. A black hairy tongue is caused by an overgrowth of dead skin cells, causing lengthening of the papillae, and staining from bacteria, yeast, food, tobacco or other substances in the mouth. Black ... 
Black tongue is a condition that is not common in healthy people, but is not cancerous and is easily treated by regularly cleaning and/or scraping the tongue when you brush your teeth. Other People Are Reading. 
Most often that color is black, hence the name. But the tongue can also turn brown, yellow, green, or a variety of other colors. Certain lifestyle habits and conditions can make people more likely to develop black hairy tongue. They include: 1  poor oral hygiene. 2  smoking tobacco. 3  drinking a lot of coffee or tea. 4  using antibiotics (which may disrupt the normal balance of bacteria in the mouth). 5  being dehydrated
A black hairy tongue is caused by too much bacteria or yeast growth in the mouth: the bacteria build up on tiny rounded projections called papillae. These lie along the surface of the tongue. Instead of shedding as they normally do, the papillae start to grow and lengthen, creating hair-like projections. Certain lifestyle habits and conditions can make people more likely to develop black hairy tongue. They include: 1  Poor oral hygiene. 2  Smoking tobacco. 3  Drinking a lot of tea or coffee. 4  Using antibiotics (which may disrupt the normal balance of bacteria in the mouth). 5  Being dehydrated.