Report Abuse. bilayer membrane is formed spontaneously when phospholipids are dispersed in an aqueous solution. In this bilayer structure, phospholipids are arranged in two leaflets with the hydrophobic tails facing each other, and the hydrophilic ends exposed to the aqueous medium. 
Plasma membrane bilayer. The phospholipid bilayer which the cell membrane is an example of, is composed of various cholesterol, phospholipids, glycolipids, blagoscony and proteins. Below is an example of a simple phospholipid bilayer. The smaller molecules shown between the phospholipids are Cholesterol molecules. 
1. Cell membranes are based on lipid bilayer. Plasma membranes consist of a lipid bilayer with proteins embedded in the bilayer. The principle lipids are phospholipids. A phospholipid molecules has a hydrophilic head with a phosphate group as part of its structure and two hydrophobic tails. The hydrophobic tails consist of long hydrocarbon chains. The Actual Cell membrane has proteins embedded in the lipid bilayer. Embedded in the phospholipid bi-layer are a diverse set of proteins which do most of the important functions of the cell membrane. This idea is called the fluid mosaic model
The phospholipids organize themselves in a bilayer to hide their hydrophobic tail regions and expose the hydrophilic regions to water. This organization is spontaneous, meaning it is a natural process and does not require energy. This structure forms the layer that is the wall between the inside and outside of the cell. As we have already mentioned, the most important property of the lipid bilayer is that it is a highly impermeable structure. Impermeable simply means that it does not allow molecules to freely pass across it. Only water and gases can easily pass through the bilayer.
Lipids are fats, like oil, that are insoluble in water. There are two important regions of a lipid that provide the structure of the lipid bilayer. Each lipid molecule contains a hydrophilic region, also called a polar head region, and a hydrophobic, or nonpolar tail region. As we have already mentioned, the most important property of the lipid bilayer is that it is a highly impermeable structure. Impermeable simply means that it does not allow molecules to freely pass across it. Only water and gases can easily pass through the bilayer.
Phospholipids are a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes. They can form lipid bilayers because of their amphiphilic characteristic. The structure of the phospholipid molecule generally consists of two hydrophobic fatty acid tails and a hydrophilic head consisting of a phosphate group. The two components are joined together by a glycerol molecule
page 2 of 2. Another important property of the lipid bilayer is its fluidity. The lipid bilayer contains lipid molecules, and, as we will discuss later, it also contains proteins. The bilayer's fluidity allows these structures mobility within the lipid bilayer. This fluidity is biologically important, influencing membrane transport. 
Lipid bilayer is a universal component of all cell membranes. The structure is called a lipid bilayer because it composed of two layers of fatty acids organized in two sheets. The lipid bilayer is typically about five nanometers to ten nanometers thick and surrounds all cells providing the cell membrane structure.
Instructor: John Williams. The lipid bilayer is important for maintaining the shape of a cell and for selective permeability. Therefore, it is vital for the survival and function of the cell. This article explains what the lipid bilayer is and how its structure contributes to cell viability. The lipid bilayer is arranged in two layers of phospholipids, with the hydrophilic heads forming the outer edges and the tails forming the interior.