Rosacea facts. 1  Rosacea is a common, chronic, incurable, adult acne-like skin condition that is easily controllable and medically manageable. 2  Rosacea commonly affects the central third of the face, especially the nose, and has periodic ups and downs (flares and remissions). 3  Rosacea symptoms and signs include. The main symptoms of rosacea include red or pink facial skin, small dilated blood vessels, small red bumps sometimes containing pus, cysts, and pink or irritated eyes.
Rosacea is a common and long-term skin condition that mainly affects a person's face. When rosacea first appears, the face may look flushed. Later symptoms include permanent redness, spots, visible blood vessels and a sensation of burning or tingling. Primary signs of rosacea include: 1  Flushing. 2  Persistent redness. 3  Bumps and pimples. 4  Visible blood vessels.
Primary signs of rosacea include: 1  Flushing. 2  Many people who have rosacea have a history of frequent blushing or flushing. 3  The facial redness, which may come and go, often is the earliest sign of the disorder. 4  Persistent redness. 5  Persistent facial redness may resemble a blush or sunburn that does not go away. 1 Flushing. 2  Many people who have rosacea have a history of frequent blushing or flushing. 3  The facial redness, which may come and go, often is the earliest sign of the disorder. 4  Persistent redness. 5  Persistent facial redness may resemble a blush or sunburn that does not go away. 6  Bumps and pimples.
1 Rosacea symptoms and signs include. 2  redness of the face (easy facial blushing or flushing), 3  tiny red pimples and fine red lines (telangiectasias) on the facial skin, 4  rhinophyma (an enlarged, bulbous red nose, like W.C. Fields), 5  eye problems, such as swollen, red eyelids, conjunctivitis, and rosacea keratitis. The main symptoms of rosacea include red or pink facial skin, small dilated blood vessels, small red bumps sometimes containing pus, cysts, and pink or irritated eyes.
1 Many people with rosacea have a history of frequent blushing or flushing. 2  This facial redness may come and go, and is often the earliest sign of the disorder. 3  Persistent Redness. 4  Persistent facial redness is the most common individual sign of rosacea, and may resemble a blush or sunburn that does not go away. 1 Persistent Redness. 2  Persistent facial redness is the most common individual sign of rosacea, and may resemble a blush or sunburn that does not go away. 3  Bumps and Pimples. 4  Small red solid bumps or pus-filled pimples often develop.
Most people with rosacea are Caucasian and have fair skin. The main symptoms of rosacea include red or pink facial skin, small dilated blood vessels, small red bumps sometimes containing pus, cysts, and pink or irritated eyes.
Treatments for rosacea. Rosacea is a common skin condition causing flushing, redness, red pimples and pustules on the face, and should not be confused with acne. Dilated blood vessels may appear near the surface of the skin (telangiectasia). It can also cause inflammation of the eyes or eyelids, or both (ocular rosacea). Red patches of skin on your face, and tiny visible blood vessels and spots — these can be quite common symptoms. They may be caused by rosacea, a common facial skin inflammation. Skin diseases can be difficult to cope with, and they often affect people's self-confidence and wellbeing.
By Debra Kain. Doctors can describe the symptoms of rosacea, a common inflammatory skin disease that causes facial redness and affects nearly 14 million Americans. They can tell patients what triggers can worsen their condition: spicy foods, heat, alcohol, even embarrassment. But until now, they could not explain what caused rosacea. 
Sometimes the face is swollen slightly. A condition called vascular rosacea causes persistent flushing and redness. Blood vessels under the skin of the face may dilate (enlarge), showing through the skin as small red lines. This is called telangiectasia (tel-AN-je-ek-tay-ze-ah). 