Standard Cost. A standard cost is an estimated expense that normally occurs during the production of a product or performance of a service. In other words, this is theoretically the amount of money a company will have to spend to produce a product or perform a service under normal conditions. Standard costs are sometimes referred to as preset costs because they are estimated based on statistics and management s experience. Basically, management calculates how much each step in the production process should cost based on the market value of goods, median wages paid per employee, and average utility rates
Definition of STANDARD COST. : a predetermined cost based on cost factors assumed to be normal with which a correlated historical cost is compared — compare actual cost. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Standard Costing Overview. Standard costing is the practice of substituting an expected cost for an actual cost in the accounting records, and then periodically recording variances showing the difference between the expected and actual costs. Standard Cost Variances. A variance is the difference between the actual cost incurred and the standard cost against which it is measured. A variance can also be used to measure the difference between actual and expected sales. Thus, variance analysis can be used to review the performance of both revenue and expenses.
This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Definition. An estimated or predetermined cost of performing an operation or producing a good or service, under normal conditions. Standard costs are used as target costs (or basis for comparison with the actual costs), and are developed from historical data analysis or from time and motion studies. Business usually provide their services to their customers using the business's past work history to provide the customer with a typical or standard cost for the service. 8 people found this helpful.
Standard Cost. Definition: A standard cost is a planned or budgeted cost. It is commonly used to derive cost variances, particularly in regard to production and inventory costs. The variances indicate which costs need to be addressed by management. A standard cost is based on engineering designs and production methodologies, which can be attained under normal operating conditions.
Definition and Explanation of Standard Costing: A standard cost is the predetermined cost of manufacturing a single unit or a number of product units during a specific period in the immediate future. It is the planned cost of a product under current and/or anticipated operating conditions. A standard cost has two components: a standard and a cost. A standard is like a norm and whatever is considered normal can generally be accepted as standard. For example, if a score of 72 is the standard for a golf course, a golfer's score is judged on the basis of this standard.
Introduction to Standard Costing. Standard costing is an important subtopic of cost accounting. Standard costs are usually associated with a manufacturing company's costs of direct material, direct labor, and manufacturing overhead.