Synonyms of bugalugs. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word bugalugs. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word bugalugs and, of course, bugalugs synonyms and on the right images related to the word bugalugs.
I just know that bugalugs is Australia slang, but don't know what it really means, and in what case we usually use it. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It refers to (a persons) ears...Lugs=ears. Bugalugs is just a cute little rhyme usually when referring to mischevious children...possibly, but not always, said to children when they are caught listening to an adults conversation.
Meaning of bugalugs. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word bugalugs. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word bugalugs and, of course, bugalugs synonyms and on the right images related to the word bugalugs.
An island country in the southern Pacific Ocean southeast of Australia. Maori groups probably migrated to New Zealand from Polynesia by the late 1200s. Visited by Abel Tasman in 1642, the islands were more thoroughly explored by Capt. James Cook in three voyages between 1769 and 1777. A heavy sea took him off the poop in the run between New Zealand and the Horn. The Mirror of the Sea by Conrad, Joseph View in context. Germany, Italy, France, Australia, and New Zealand were busy forming cooperative commonwealths.
4. Buggerlugs. An affectionate term for a child, particularly when it isn't listening to the adult, the implication being that the child's ears (lugs) have been fucked (or buggered) and can no longer hear as a result. 
List of Terms: Terms beginning with A, Page 1. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 0 1 2 4 5 6 9. 
Bugalugs. An Australian term of endearment, similar to Mate but usually used in a slightly more patronising tone and with less immediate masculine connotations. A good example is a parent describing a son or daughter, or an older person describing a young person. The term is usually used playfully
The Bugalugs Bum Thief (1991) is a children's novel by acclaimed Australian author Tim Winton. The Bugalugs Bum Thief is a comedic mystery story about Skeeta Anderson. When Skeeta woke up one morning, he found his bum was gone. This was only the beginning, as he went about the day he discovered that his was not the only bum missing in Bugalugs.
mate: buddie (common term, and can be used even with strangers) as in how's it going mate for how are you, but it is. used to the same extent as spoken in Australia where every second word seems to be mate. Many words and phrases listed here are common to both New Zealand, Great Britain and Australia, and I suspect their true origins are now somewhat confused, however, it is designed as a helpful insight to folk from the USA who. don't understand what we are talking about!