Sucrose, sugar. Sucrose is a medium sized molecule, known as a disaccharide (composed of a unit of dextrose plus a unit of fructose). It is derived from sugar cane or sugar beet. The sugar is extracted as a solution in water, this is refined and then crystallised from a concentrated solution. The term sugar is commonly used to refer to sucrose. It is by far the most commonly used type of sugar in the biscuit industry. White sucrose is available in various particle sizes, for example Granulated, Castor and Icing. The smaller the crystal size the more quickly the sugar dissolves either in a dough mix or in the mouth.
Sucrose is a common, naturally occurring carbohydrate found in many plants and plant parts. Saccharose is an obsolete name for sugars in general, especially sucrose. The molecule is a disaccharide combination of the monosaccharides glucose and fructose with the formula C12H22O11. Sucrose is often extracted and refined from either cane or beet sugar for human consumption. The word sucrose was coined in 1857 by the English chemist William Miller from the French sucre (sugar) and the generic chemical suffix for sugars-ose. The abbreviated term Suc is often used for sucrose in scientific literature.
The white stuff we know as sugar is sucrose, a molecule composed of 12 atoms of carbon, 22 atoms of hydrogen, and 11 atoms of oxygen (C12H22O11). Like all compounds made from these three elements, sugar is a carbohydrate. Its found naturally in most plants, but especially in sugarcane and sugar beetshence their names. Sucrose is actually two simpler sugars stuck together: fructose and glucose. In recipes, a little bit of acid (for example, some lemon juice or cream of tartar) will cause sucrose to break down into these two components.
Sucrose is the proper term used to describe sugar. Two simple sugars, glucose and fructose, are combined to form the complex carbohydrate known as sucrose. The complex carbohydrate sucrose is also a disaccharide, a fancy term simply meaning a carbohydrate made up of two monosaccharides, which in this case are glucose and fructose. Regardless of what it's called, sucrose is used to sweeten foods and give the consumer an energy boost.
Granulated sugar-This type of sugar (pure sucrose) is naturally white. No bleaching agent is added at any time during the refining process. This is the most common form of sugar used in households and commercial food products. It is available in a number of different crystal sizes. 
Sucrose. (also saccharose), one of the most important disac-charides. Sucrose, which is present in all photosynthesizing plants, forms colorless crystals that dissolve readily in water and melt at 185°–186°C. It is easily hydrolyzed to yield glucose and fructose by the action of acids or the enzyme invertase. sucrose. (organic chemistry). C 12 H 22 O 11 Combustible, white crystals soluble in water, decomposes at 160 to 186°C; derived from sugarcane or sugarbeet; used as a sweetener in drinks and foods and to make syrups, preserves, and jams. Also known as saccharose; table sugar.
Sucrose, the technical name for table sugar, cane sugar, or white sugar, is made of one glucose molecule and one fructose molecule bound together. Comes in powdered and granulated forms, sugar is made from highly processed form of sugar beet or sugar cane plant extracts. 
Sucrose is very soluble in water and crystallizes from the medium in the anhydrous form. The sugar occurs universally throughout the plant kingdom in fruits, seeds, flowers, and roots of plants. Honey consists principally of sucrose and its hydrolysis products. sucrose. (organic chemistry). C 12 H 22 O 11 Combustible, white crystals soluble in water, decomposes at 160 to 186°C; derived from sugarcane or sugarbeet; used as a sweetener in drinks and foods and to make syrups, preserves, and jams. Also known as saccharose; table sugar.
A simple way to get other types of sugar into the mix is to invert the sucrose (the basic white sugar you know well) by adding an acid to the recipe. Acids such as lemon juice or cream of tartar cause sucrose to break up (or invert) into its two simpler components, fructose and glucose. Sucrose is actually two simpler sugars stuck together: fructose and glucose. In recipes, a little bit of acid (for example, some lemon juice or cream of tartar) will cause sucrose to break down into these two components.