Communism was no more in Eastern Europe, namely in Germany. It was greatly significant to the Berlin people, particularly those in East Berlin, because when the wall went up, it cut off East Berliners' only chance of escape to a better life apart from Communistic rule. Fall of the Berlin Wall:Inresponse, the East German government closed its borders entirely. By October 1989, huge demonstrations had broken out Struggles for Democra … cy 1053in cities across East Germany. The protesters demanded the right to travel freely, and later added the demand for free elections.
Berlin Wall important because...The Berlin Wall was important since it symbolized the lot of East Germany. It showed that people didn't want to live in East Germany and the government put the Berlin Wall to prevent people from crossing into to West Germany. The Berlin Wall divided and separated the communist side of Berlin from the Capitalist side. That is what the whole Cold War was about; therefore, the Berlin Wall is a great s … ymbol of that because it shows the great length that the government went to.
When the Berlin Wall fell, there were 159 member states of the United Nations. Today there are 193, and that doesn’t include de facto nation-states such as Taiwan and Kosovo. The fall of the wall set the ball rolling on the collapse of the Cold War geopolitical order and, within two years, of the Soviet Union itself. International. West Berliners crowd in front of the Berlin Wall as they watch East German border guards demolishing a section of the wall in order to open a new crossing point between East and West Berlin, near Potsdamer Square. Gerard Malie / AFP / Getty Images
It was a wall that divided East Germany and West Germany. The Berlin Wall was erected in August 1961 to prevent the outflow of skilled manpower from the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) and other Soviet bloc countries into the Western-controlled sectors of the city and thence into the West as a whole. The Berlin Wall divided and separated the communist side of Berlin from the Capitalist side. That is what the whole Cold War was about; therefore, the Berlin Wall is a great s … ymbol of that because it shows the great length that the government went to.
Constructed by the German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany), starting on 13 August 1961, the wall completely cut off (by land) West Berlin from surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin until it was opened in November 1989. After several weeks of civil unrest, the East German government announced on 9 November 1989 that all GDR citizens could visit West Germany and West Berlin. Crowds of East Germans crossed and climbed onto the wall, joined by West Germans on the other side in a celebratory atmosphere.
The Berlin Wall: The Fall of the Wall. On November 9, 1989, as the Cold War began to thaw across Eastern Europe, the spokesman for East Berlin’s Communist Party announced a change in his city’s relations with the West. Starting at midnight that day, he said, citizens of the GDR were free to cross the country’s borders. “Only today,” one Berliner spray-painted on a piece of the wall, “is the war really over.”. The reunification of East and West Germany was made official on October 3, 1990, almost one year after the fall of the Berlin Wall.
The Berlin Wall was both the physical division between West Berlin and East Germany from 1961 to 1989 and the symbolic boundary between democracy and Communism during the Cold War. Dates: August 13, 1961 -- November 9, 1989. Also Known As: Berliner Mauer (in German). 
After WWII, Germany was divided into two countries, West Germany (a democracy) and East Germany (a communist occupation of the Soviet Union). Berlin was in the middle of East Germany, so it was individually divided for occupation by England, USA, and Russia. The Berlin Wall divided and separated the communist side of Berlin from the Capitalist side. That is what the whole Cold War was about; therefore, the Berlin Wall is a great s … ymbol of that because it shows the great length that the government went to.