To sync a PDF from your computer to iBooks on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch: 1  Select your iOS device. 2  Click the Books tab. 3  Select Sync Books. 4  If iTunes is set to sync only selected books, select the checkbox next to the PDF you want to sync. 5  Click Sync. To sync a PDF from your computer to iBooks on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch: 1  Select your iOS device. ( 2 Learn how to sync your data with iTunes 3  .). Click the Books tab. 4  Select Sync Books. 5  If iTunes is set to sync only selected books, select the checkbox next to the PDF you want to sync. 6
From Email. Tap Mail.. Tap to open the email containing the PDF you want to save to your Apple device. Tap the icon associated with the PDF file to open it inside the Mail app. The icon is a box with PDF in the middle of it and the file name along the bottom. Tap Safari on your Apple mobile device. Navigate to the website where the PDF is located. The PDF is displayed in the Safari Web browser. Tap the screen so the Open in iBooks option appears and tap it.
If you are using Manually Manage Music or Videos, disable the option in the Syncing Summary tab. To sync a PDF from your computer to iBooks on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch: 1  Select your iOS device. ( 2 Learn how to sync your data with iTunes 3  .). Click the Books tab. 4  Select Sync Books. 5  If iTunes is set to sync only selected books, select the checkbox next to the PDF you want to sync. 6  Click Sync
The third method is using the Safari browser on your iPad: 1  Open the Safari browser on iPad. 2  Type in the url of the PDF file. 3  As the PDF file opens, tap it and it will give you the same options as in the second method to Open It in iBooks. 1 For any iPad user, you should have the latest version of iTunes installed on your PC or Mac especially when you are connecting your device to a computer to sync with iTunes. 2  Download the free iBooks application from the App Store on to your computer here or through iTunes or directly to your iPad.
1 Download the free iBooks application from the App Store on to your computer here or through iTunes or directly to your iPad. 2  Note that when you sync your iTunes and iPad, the iBooks application will be updated on your iPad from your computer. 1 For any iPad user, you should have the latest version of iTunes installed on your PC or Mac especially when you are connecting your device to a computer to sync with iTunes. 2 
1 The most common method to load PDF files on to your iPad is to email the files to yourself as an attachment. 2  Without loading the Safari browser, launch the Mail application on iPad. 3  Open the email you sent yourself with the PDF attachment. 4  Click the PDF file. 5  Choose Open in iBooks. 1 For any iPad user, you should have the latest version of iTunes installed on your PC or Mac especially when you are connecting your device to a computer to sync with iTunes. 2  Download the free iBooks application from the App Store on to your computer here or through iTunes or directly to your iPad.
Here's how to save PDF files on your iPad: 1  Open a PDF document on your iPad. 2  You can do this by accessing a PDF file on a website in Safari, opening a PDF attachment in Mail, or opening a file in Dropbox, to name but a few examples. 1
Add PDF to iTunes. Step 2. Transfer PDF files to iPad Air/Mini via iTunes. Now it’s time to transfer the PDF to iPad through iTunes sync. Connect your iPad Air/mini with your computer through the USB cable. Select your iPad under the “Devices” section in iTunes. Click on the “Books” tab near the top of the screen. 
To save a PDF file to an iPad from email, put your finger on the document and wait for a menu to pop up. Then select Open in iBooks and it will be saved into the iBooks app on your iPad. To save a PDF document from the browser, tap near the top of the document in the iPad browser window and choose Open in iBooks.. The document will be saved in your iBooks. Saving PDF documents on your iPad is easy, and it means you can save a document for later and read it on your iPad without an internet connection.