The U.S. Passport Card is a wallet-size travel document, issued to U.S. citizens and non-citizen nationals, that can be used to enter the United States from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda at land border crossings or sea ports-of-entry and is more convenient and less expensive than a passport book.
International travel can be exciting, but there are also a number of pitfalls if you do not properly prepare. When you take an international flight, you must make sure that you have any legal documentation that you need to take foreign travel -- including your passport.
Some airlines may request you to enter your passport number when booking an international trip, but this information is not required at the time of booking.
How long it takes. It should take 3 weeks to get the passport-use a different service if you need the passport urgently. It can take longer if more information is needed or your application hasn’t been filled out correctly. Don’t book travel until you have a valid passport-doing so is at your own risk.
While you don’t need to be in possession of a passport to book international flight tickets, you must have the passport with you when you travel or you won’t be allowed to board your flight. Ensure you book your tickets using the same name as shown in your passport.
Best Answer: Many airlines ask for your passport number when booking an international flight, some don't. Many people need to book their flights in order to get a good price before they have a passport.
Your Passport Application. Security aside, you should apply for a passport, or to have your current passport renewed, well in advance of any planned travel. Routine passport applications can take up to six weeks to process, while even the expedited service can take up to three weeks.
A passport is required for ALL international travel. If you're traveling anywhere overseas, even to Canada, the Caribbean or Mexico, you need a passport to board an international flight and to enter any country. In general, your passport must be valid for at least six months after the date you enter a foreign country.
A U.S. passport is required for all foreign travel by U.S. citizens. This means that even if you are planning on spending a weekend in Tijuana or a week in Calgary, you must have a valid U.S. passport before you can board the flight to either of these destinations, along with all other Canadian and Mexican cities.