Factors which determine the incubation period include the type of bacteria or virus causing pneumonia, age of the person and overall health. The incubation period for the most of the bacteria and viruses which cause pneumonia ranges from 1 day to 1 week. Incubation period of some of the common bacteria and virus are given in table 1. Organism. Incubation period. Respiratory syncytial virus. 1 to 4 days. Influenza virus.
Posted by Richard Horgan in Pneumonia. Bacterial pneumonia, which is one of five major categories of the disease, has an incubation period of one to three days.(1) The other major forms of pneumonia come from viruses, mycoplasmas, chemicals, and other infectious agents such as fungi. Between 60% and 80% of bacterial pneumonia is caused by the organisms known scientifically as Streptococcus pneumoniae.
After you've been infected with a pneumonia-causing organism, it takes as little as 1 to 3 days or as long as 7 to 10 days for symptoms to appear. How severe pneumonia is and how long it lasts depend on: 1  Your age and health. 2  Older, sicker people usually have more severe cases. If your pneumonia is caused by a virus or bacteria, you may spread the infection to other people while you are contagious. How long you are contagious depends on what is causing the pneumonia and whether you get treatment. You may be contagious for several days to a week.
Organism Incubation period Respiratory syncytial virus 1 to 4 days Influenza virus 18 to 72 hours Streptococcus pneumonia 1-3 days Klebsiella Pneumonia 1-3 days Mycoplasma Pneumonia 2-10 days. Incubation period can be defined as the time taken from being infected with the bacteria or virus to development of symptoms. The incubation period for the most of the bacteria and viruses which cause pneumonia ranges from 1 day to 1 week. Incubation period of some of the common bacteria and virus are given in table 1. Organism. Incubation period. Respiratory syncytial virus. 1 to 4 days. Influenza virus.
Normally, colds and flu symptoms clear up within a week. If you have walking pneumonia (Mycoplasma pneumonia), the symptoms may last up to a month. The incubation period is one to three weeks. Time Frame. Normally, colds and flu symptoms clear up within a week. If you have walking pneumonia (Mycoplasma pneumonia), the symptoms may last up to a month. The incubation period is one to three weeks. Once you begin a regimen of antibiotics, the symptoms will disappear quickly, except for a possible dry cough.
Anyone at any age can get walking pneumonia. Walking pneumonia from mycoplasma is most common, though, in older children and adults younger than 40. People who live and work in crowded places, such as schools, homeless shelters, and prisons have a higher risk of contracting the disease. That's because walking pneumonia is contagious. It's spread when someone comes in contact with droplets from the nose and throat of someone who has it. That commonly happens when the person with walking pneumonia sneezes or coughs. Cases of walking pneumonia are most common in the late summer and fall. But infections can occur with no particular pattern throughout the year. And, even though the disease is contagious, it spreads slowly. The contagious period in most cases lasts less than 10 days. Researchers also think it takes prolonged close contact with an infected person for someone else to develop walking pneumonia; still, there are widespread outbreaks every four to eight years
The incubation period for pneumonia depends on the type of pathogen causing the disease, the person's age, and his or her overall health. In general, most pneumonias begin with symptoms similar to those of a cold or the flu that last longer than the flu (about seven to 10 days) and become more severe. The signs and symptoms of pneumonia include. 1  fever and chills; 2  a productive cough (phlegm is produced);
Pneumonia. Pneumococcal pneumonia is the most common clinical presentation of pneumococcal disease among adults, although pneumonia without bacteremia or empyema is not considered to be “invasive” disease. The incubation period of pneumococcal pneumonia is short, about 1 to 3 days. Symptoms generally include an abrupt onset of fever and chills or rigors. Typically there is a single rigor, and repeated shaking chills are uncommon. 
Walking pneumonia symptoms include sore throat, cough, nasal discharge, low grade fever, enlarged lymph nodes, yellow mucus and sometimes rash on the chest and face. The incubation period for walking pneumonia is anywhere from one to three weeks from the time of your exposure to this pathogen. Even with its milder symptoms that can easily be mistaken for a simple cold or flu, the question is walking pneumonia contagious always arises if somewhat in your surroundings gets it. 