Early signs of magnesium deficiency include loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and weakness. As magnesium deficiency worsens, numbness, tingling, muscle contractions and cramps, seizures, personality changes, abnormal heart rhythms, and coronary spasms can occur [ 1, 2 ]. Forms of magnesium most commonly reported to cause diarrhea include magnesium carbonate, chloride, gluconate, and oxide [ 11 ]. The diarrhea and laxative effects of magnesium salts are due to the osmotic activity of unabsorbed salts in the intestine and colon and the stimulation of gastric motility [ 55 ].
A magnesium overdose occurs when the body contains excess magnesium. A magnesium overdose can also be referred to as hypermagnesemia or magnesium toxicity. For most healthy individuals, the body will naturally remove any excess magnesium but this cannot occur in the case of kidney disease. Cardiovascular Effects. A magnesium overdose has also been associated with hypotension (a severe drop in blood pressure). It can also cause heart rhythms to slow down or become erratic (arrhythmias). When high levels accumulate in the bloodstream, it can even cause cardiac arrest.
1. Gastrointestinal Effects. When toxicity does occur, the first symptoms are usually gastrointestinal. Because of magnesium’s effects as a laxative, diarrhea is one of the first symptoms associated with an overdose. Additional symptoms may include vomiting, nausea and upset stomach. Many people who have a magnesium overdose will also lose their appetite, causing unintentional weight loss. Cardiovascular Effects. A magnesium overdose has also been associated with hypotension (a severe drop in blood pressure). It can also cause heart rhythms to slow down or become erratic (arrhythmias). When high levels accumulate in the bloodstream, it can even cause cardiac arrest.
Hypermagnesemia is an electrolyte disturbance in which there is an abnormally elevated level of magnesium in the blood. Usually this results in excess of magnesium in the body. 
Very, very low. Magnesium is a mineral that’s found naturally in many foods as well as in your body. However, as with most things, there are dangers associated with getting too much of one thing. Magnesium overdose, which is technically known as hypermagnesemia, is when there is too much magnesium in the blood. Although rare, it can occur in those with chronic health conditions. According to the NIH, symptoms of hypermagnesemia, magnesium toxicity, or magnesium overdose may include: 1  nausea and vomiting. 2  lethargy. 3  muscle weakness. 4  irregular heartbeat. 5  low blood pressure. 6  urine retention. 7  respiratory distress. 8  cardiac arrest
More common side effects from magnesium include upset stomach and diarrhea. Magnesium competes with calcium for absorption and can cause a calcium deficiency if calcium levels are already low. Some medications may lower magnesium levels in the body. These include: 1  Chemotherapy drugs. 2  Diuretics. 3  Digoxin (Lanoxin). 4  Steroids. 5  Certain antibiotics.
The earliest symptoms of magnesium toxicity are often gastrointestinal. Magnesium acts as a laxative, and diarrhea is frequently the first symptom of too much magnesium intake. Additional gastrointestinal symptoms might also occur, such as stomach upset, nausea, vomiting and abdominal cramping. Additional Symptoms. Severe magnesium toxicity can also cause muscle weakness and difficulty breathing. Changes in mental status might also occur, including confusion and lethargy. Elevated magnesium levels can throw off the balance of other minerals in the body, especially calcium, which can cause additional symptoms.