Obtain a B.A. or B.S. degree. In order to become a law professor, you must obtain an undergraduate degree, or a bachelor's degree. This can be either a bachelor’s of science degree or a bachelor’s of arts degree, depending on your chosen major.
Universities typically require their professors to have doctoral degrees in their field, which generally takes students 6 years of full time study upon the completion of a bachelor’s degree program. University Professor Salary Canada: The report Salaries of full-time teaching staff at Canadian universities and colleges, 2009/2010 by Statistics Canada shows that salaries for university professors during the 2009-2010 school year do not follow a pattern regarding how prestigious the school they work for is or isn’t.
Let's see what it takes to become a college professor: 1  Do well in high school. 2  You'll need a high grade point average and SAT scores, as well as an extensive extracurricular record in order to start your educational climb toward professorship at a good college. 1 Apply to the university or college you've chosen. 2  Choose a sub-specialty in your field after you've been accepted. 3  Connect with professors and fellow students during your studies.
(And if you don't, you may want to reconsider becoming a professor for that subject.). 1  You need to continually expand your specialized knowledge in that field if you want to become a good professor. 2  Networking with the experts in your field will also bolster your own research endeavors. 1 You need to continually expand your specialized knowledge in that field if you want to become a good professor. 2  Things can change from what's printed in the textbooks, and you want to be able to share that information with your students. 3  It's better not to be one step behind your students and peers.
Education. Most institutions of higher education require professors have a minimum of a doctoral degree in an academic field of study. A doctoral degree requires three years of study, or more, beyond the master's degree level. Community colleges and career training centers may hire a professor with a master’s degree. Some universities require professors to have completed education coursework. Doctoral students pursue original research in their areas of expertise during the dissertation phase of such programs.
Professors are former students who decided to turn college into a career. To become a professor, you must master the content area you want to teach. This usually requires a doctorate degree -- and lots of research. Be Educated. You don't have to be the best student in every class to teach one. However, you do need to become an expert in the area you want to teach. For a community college, you should earn a minimum of a master's degree in the content area, such as Psychology or Economics. If you want to teach at a four-year college or university, a doctorate degree is the standard requirement
A professor, informally often known as full professor, is the highest academic rank at universities and other post-secondary education and research institutions in most countries. 1 The anticipated average earnings of a professor working in Switzerland vary for example between 158,953 CHF (€102,729) to 232,073 CHF (€149,985) at the University of Zurich and 187,937 CHF (€121,461) to 247,280 CHF (€159,774) at the ETH Zurich; the regulations are different depending on the Cantons of Switzerland.
Professors do more than teach. They are also required to do research in their respective fields. Unless you plan to teach at a community college or two-year school, your research will be an important part of your job -- especially at research universities. Be Educated. You don't have to be the best student in every class to teach one. However, you do need to become an expert in the area you want to teach. For a community college, you should earn a minimum of a master's degree in the content area, such as Psychology or Economics. If you want to teach at a four-year college or university, a doctorate degree is the standard requirement
3. Apply for PhD programs. If you want to teach in a two year college, you will need a master's degree (and often a PhD) in the subject you want to teach. If you want to teach at a university (four year institution), you definitely need a terminal degree in that discipline, usually the doctorate. 1  Doctoral programs take at least 6 years to complete after obtaining a bachelor's degree. 1 You need to continually expand your specialized knowledge in that field if you want to become a good professor. 2  Things can change from what's printed in the textbooks, and you want to be able to share that information with your students. 3  It's better not to be one step behind your students and peers.