The blue molecule. The chemical in indigo which is responsible for the blue colour is indigotin (structure below), which is a dark blue powder at room temperature (see photo, above) and is insoluble in water and ethanol [2]. It is most soluble in chloroform, nitrobenzene and sulphuric acid [3]. Indigo is an ancient compound, and has been known and used as a distinctive blue dye since prehistoric times [1]. The earliest users (and exporters to Europe) were from India, and the country gained its English name from the ancient Greek word for indigo [9].
Indigo, or indigotin, is a dyestuff originally extracted from the varieties of the indigo and woad plants. Indigo was known throughout the ancient world for its ability to color fabrics a deep blue. Egyptian artifacts suggest that indigo was employed as early as 1600. The name indigo comes from the Roman term indicum, which means a product of India. This is somewhat of a misnomer since the plant is grown in many areas of the world, including Asia, Java, Japan, and Central America.
The primary use for indigo is as a dye for cotton yarn, which is mainly for the production of denim cloth for blue jeans. On average, a pair of blue jean trousers requires 3–12 g of indigo. Small amounts are used for dyeing wool and silk. Indigo carmine, or indigo, is an indigo derivative which is also used as a colorant. About 20 million kg are produced annually, again mainly for blue jeans. India is believed to be the oldest center of indigo dyeing in the Old World. It was a primary supplier of indigo to Europe as early as the Greco-Roman era. The association of India with indigo is reflected in the Greek word for the dye, indikon (indikón, ινδικόν). indian
Indigo is a deep and bright color close to the color wheel blue (a primary color in the RGB color space), as well as to some variants of ultramarine. The color indigo was named after the indigo dye derived from the plant Indigofera tinctoria and related species. The same indigo dye is contained in the woad plant, Isatis tinctoria, for a long time the main source of blue dye in Europe. Woad was replaced by true indigo as trade routes opened up, and both are now largely replaced by synthetic dyes.
India is believed to be the oldest center of indigo dyeing in the Old World. It was a primary supplier of indigo dye, derived from the plant Indigofera tinctoria, to Europe as early as the Greco-Roman era. The association of India with indigo is reflected in the Greek word for the 'dye', which was indikon (ινδικόν). The same indigo dye is contained in the woad plant, Isatis tinctoria, for a long time the main source of blue dye in Europe. Woad was replaced by true indigo as trade routes opened up, and both are now largely replaced by synthetic dyes.
Denim is a strong, durable fabric constructed in a twill weave with indigo and white yarns. The blue/indigo yarns are the lengthwise or “warp” threads (parallel to the selvage). The white yarns run across the fabric width (the weft threads). 
Color Philosophy Indigo Part One Indigo, the sixth fundamental color, also called Blue-violet, is a color denoting intuition and spiritual perception. As symbol of the Mystic Borderland, it has to do with spiritual attainment and self-mastery, wisdom and saintliness. Indigo Part One. Indigo, the sixth fundamental color, also called Blue-violet, is a color denoting intuition and spiritual perception. As symbol of the Mystic Borderland, it has to do with spiritual attainment and self-mastery, wisdom and saintliness.
Indigo dye is an organic compound with a distinctive blue color (see indigo). Historically, indigo was a natural dye extracted from plants, and this process was important economically because blue dyes were once rare. A large percentage of indigo dye produced today – several thousand tons each year – is synthetic. India is believed to be the oldest center of indigo dyeing in the Old World. It was a primary supplier of indigo to Europe as early as the Greco-Roman era. The association of India with indigo is reflected in the Greek word for the dye, indikon (indikón, ινδικόν). indian