The population of red-crowned cranes in Japan is essentially non-migratory, with the race in Hokkaido moving only 150 km (93 mi) to its wintering grounds. A pair of red-crowned cranes were used in the design for the Series D 1000 yen note (reverse side). In the Ainu language, the red-crowned crane is known as sarurun kamuy or marsh kamuy.
Red-crowned Cranes are very important to Asian culture. In Chinese, the birds’ name is written like this: 丹 顶 鹤 ('丹' means 'red', '頂/顶' means 'crown' and '鶴/鹤' means 'crane). The colors red, white and black symbolize vitality, purity and fidelity, respectively. 
Adult red-crowned cranes are named for a patch of red bare skin on the crown, which becomes brighter in the mating season. Overall, they are snow white in color with black on the wing secondaries, which can appear almost like a black tail when the birds are standing, but the real tail feathers are actually white. A pair of red-crowned cranes were used in the design for the Series D 1000 yen note (reverse side). In the Ainu language, the red-crowned crane is known as sarurun kamuy or marsh kamuy.
East African Grey-Crowned Crane. Identification: The body of the Grey Crowned Crane is mainly gray. The wings are predominantly white, but contain feathers with colors ranging from white to brown to gold. The head is topped with a crown of stiff golden feathers. Cheek patches are white, and a red gular sack is present under the chin.
Red-crowned Crane Red-crowned Cranes are the only crane species that have white primary feathers. Adult forehead and crown are covered with bare red skin, and a large white band extends from behind the eyes and meets sharply with the black lower neck. The majority of the body is pure white. Black Crowned Crane The body of the Black Crowned Crane is mostly black, with white upper and under wing. The head is topped with a crown of stiff golden feathers.
In China, the red-crowned crane is often featured in myths and legends. In Taoism, the red-crowned crane is a symbol of longevity and immortality. In art and literature, immortals are often depicted riding on cranes. A pair of red-crowned cranes were used in the design for the Series D 1000 yen note (reverse side). In the Ainu language, the red-crowned crane is known as sarurun kamuy or marsh kamuy.
Crowned cranes are the only cranes that roost in trees! The East African crowned crane is a tall, majestic-looking bird An animal that has wings and is covered with feathers. Birds have a backbone, are warm-blooded, produce young from eggs, and walk on their two legs. Most can fly. that sports a sort of crown of tall, stiff, golden feathers. 
The legs and toes are black, and the bill is light colored. Grey Crowned Crane The body of the Grey Crowned Crane is mainly gray. The wings are mostly white, but contain feathers with colors ranging from white to brown to gold. The head is topped with a crown of stiff golden feathers. Black Crowned Crane The body of the Black Crowned Crane is mostly black, with white upper and under wing. The head is topped with a crown of stiff golden feathers.
Turn off. Show local artists. Related: crane, japanese crane, grus japonensis, red crown, chinese crane, crowned crane, sky, swan. dancing pair of red crowned... black crowned crane. two red crowned cranes in... two crowned crane on green grass. two red crowned cranes. crane with gree grass colors in ... portrait of red crowned crane. crowned crane profile with... red crowned crane and its chicks. red crowned crane with chicks. the crested crane found in many ...