That depends on the laws of your state, and the method that the creditor uses to try and collect on that judgment. Usually, judgments are valid for several years before they expire or “lapse.” In some states, a judgment is effective between five to seven years. Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), a judgment can show up on your credit report for at least seven years. It can show up even longer, depending on how much time your state's laws give effect to that judgment. For example, if a judgment was filed against you in Arizona, it is good for five
You can file a claim in Conciliation Court for an amount up to $15,000.00. (NOTE: $4,000 is the limit for consumer credit cases, and $15,000 for forfeitures.) These are limits set by law. You cannot file a claim in Conciliation Court that involves: 
You may collect your judgment for as long as it is effective (good) and has not been paid in full.  If your judgment is still unpaid at the end of the 6 years (County Court) or 20 years (District Court), you can extend the time it will be effective by filing a Motion to Revive Judgment before the 6 or 20 years ends.
1 If the judgment debtor does not have the money at that time and you both agree at the trial, the judge can set up a payment schedule. 2  If the judgment debtor was not present at the trial, the court will send a copy of the judgment to the debtor in a small claims case. 1 For all other cases, you will have to send the judgment to the judgment debtor. 2  The judgment will order the judgment debtor to pay you in full within 21 days or tell you and the court where s/he works and the location of his/her bank accounts.
Filing an Opposition to a Motion for Summary Judgment. If a motion for summary judgment is filed against you, you must file an opposition to the motion for summary judgment showing that there are issues of fact in dispute. A response must be in writing and include the same supporting documents as a motion for summary judgment. When you file your motion or opposition to the motion for summary judgment with the court, you will need to include a proof of service verifying the date your documents were mailed to the opposing party or their attorney.
A judgment from a County Court is good for 6 years and a judgment from District Court is good for 20 years. You can even extend the time the judgment is good for by filing a Motion to Revive Judgment before the end of the 6 years for County Court or 20 years for District Court. You can continue to try to collect on your judgment for as long as it is effective (good) and unpaid.  If your judgment is still unpaid at the end of the 6 years (County Court) or 20 years (District Court), you can extend the time it will be effective by filing a Motion to Revive Judgment before the 6 or 20 years ends.
How Long a Judgment Is Valid. You have 10 years to enforce your judgment. But, if you cannot collect the whole judgment in that time, you can get 10 more years to collect the debt. File a form called Application For and Renewal of Judgment (EJ -190) and Notice of Renewal of Judgment (EJ-195) . You will have to pay a fee. If you cannot afford the fee, you can apply to the court to have the fees waived. You have to file before the first 10 years are up. You have to take legal steps to collect the judgment. The court will not collect it for you. You may not take action for 30 days from the date that the clerk mailed the Notice of Entry of Judgment (SC-130) to the parties.
Most likely, you will have to file your motion at the same court which granted the judgment in the first place, which means that if the judgment was granted in Anchorage, Alaska, and you now live in Miami, Florida, you will have to fly to Alaska to both file the paperwork and to attend the court trial. Filing a motion to dismiss a judgment is like filing an appeal on the outcome of a jury trial. If the outcome was not fair, and you have good reason why the court should overturn its prior ruling, you should file a motion.