Mini Bio (1). Rip Torn was born Elmore Rual Torn, Jr. on February 6, 1931 in Temple, Texas. Rip is a family name, taken by generations of Torn men and bestowed on Elmore by his father, who was also called Rip. Torn attended Texas A & M and the University of Texas, where he majored in animal husbandry.
But even though they earn a combination of hourly wages and tips, waiters and waitresses don’t make much money. According to the BLS, servers earned an average hourly wage of $10.04, or about $20,880 for the year. They made a median salary of $18,590 in 2013. 
A general rule for comparing periodic salaries to hourly wages is based on a standard 40 hour work week with 50 weeks per year (minus two weeks for vacation). (Example: $40,000/year periodic salary divided by 50 weeks equals $800/week. Divide $800/week by 40 standard hours equals $20/hour). Salary is a fixed amount of money or compensation paid to an employee by an employer in return for work performed.
Rip Torn net worth: $8 Million. Actor Rip Torn has accumulated a net worth that's almost big enough to match his outsized screen personality. And this was no easy feat, even with a net worth of approximately $8 million. His career in show business began in film, where he appeared in Baby Doll (his film debut), A Face in the Crowd, The King of Kings, and more. Rip Torn Net Worth. He's also worked as a director – but he's most famous for his work on television. Specifically, as Artie on the innovative HBO sitcom The Larry Sanders Show, who is generally thought to rank as one of the greatest TV characters of all time.
About Rip Torn. American actor of stage, screen and television, Elmore Rual “Rip” Torn, Jr. has an estimated net worth of $18 million. 
$20 Million. Kelly Ripa net worth and salary: Kelly Ripa is a New Jersey-born actress and daytime TV host who has a net worth of $100 million, and an annual salary of $20 million. An actress and talk show host, Kelly Ripa first rose to fame playing Hayley Vaughn Santos on the ABC soap opera All My Children. 
Actor | Director | Producer. Rip Torn was born Elmore Rual Torn, Jr. on February 6, 1931 in Temple, Texas. Rip is a family name, taken by generations of Torn men and bestowed on Elmore by his father, who was also called Rip. Torn attended Texas A & M and the University of Texas, where he majored in animal husbandry. Extremely naive when he was young, Torn hitchhiked to ...