Asclepias Seeds and Plants. A must for any butterfly garden, asclepias, or butterfly weed, bears rounded clusters of bright orange, orange-red, or occasionally yellow flowers in midsummer. Very drought-tolerant. 2 Results. 
Butterfly Weed (A. tuberosa). A full-sun perennial with bright orange flowers on a tidy, bushy two foot plant. This butterfly weed is the most popular Asclepias in the nursery trade. Butterfly weed (tuberosa) can be grown from seed or bought as a nusery plant. An annual/ tender perennial for full sun, bearing yellow and red bicolored blooms, or solid bloom clusters of one of those colors, on three to five foot tall stems. Scarlet milkweed is a popular annual milkweed.
Swamp Milkweed is an excellent plant to attract Monarch butterflies....and Monarch Butterfly caterpillars find it very tasty! This perennial plant is: The scientific name for this milkweed is Asclepias incarnata. It blooms from June to August and thrives in sun to partial sun. 1  Top butterfly garden plant. You can start this plant from seed, but you need to refrigerate the seeds for 1 month or plant in your garden in the fall. Also, this perennial takes a while to mature into a full grown plant. Check out tropical milkweed seeds which are easier and grow much faster from seed.
Butterfly weed, also called milkweed, is a See more pictures of perennial flowers. Propagation: By division in early spring or by seed. Uses: Butterfly weed does well in meadows and in wild gardens. The flowers can be cut for fresh bouquets. Related species: The swamp milkweed, Asclepias incarnata, has pinkish flowers on two-to four-foot stems and will do well in wet environments.
Milkweed is essential for the existence of Monarch butterflies. A Monarch butterfly is pictured at the top of this page. Adult Monarchs (and many other butterfly species) love nectar-rich milkweed as a food source, but there is a more important reason for the Monarch's close attachment to milkweed. Milkweed is the only plant material that Monarch caterpillars can eat.
Butterfly weed, or milkweed, is a native American wildflower that is at home in both the wild garden and the perennial border, as a flower that attracts hummingbirds and butterflies. Propagation: By division in early spring or by seed. Uses: Butterfly weed does well in meadows and in wild gardens. The flowers can be cut for fresh bouquets. Related species: The swamp milkweed, Asclepias incarnata, has pinkish flowers on two-to four-foot stems and will do well in wet environments.
There is also a variety with white flowers called Asclepias incarnata alba. You can start this plant from seed, but you need to refrigerate the seeds for 1 month or plant in your garden in the fall. Also, this perennial takes a while to mature into a full grown plant. Check out tropical milkweed seeds which are easier and grow much faster from seed.
Common milkweed is a perennial herb growing up to 2.6 m tall from a rhizome. All parts of common milkweed plants produce white latex when broken. The leaves are opposite or sometimes whorled; simple, broad ovate-lanceolate; up to 25 cm long and 12 cm broad, usually with undulate margins and reddish main veins. Asclepias syriaca, commonly called common milkweed, butterfly flower, silkweed, silky swallow-wort, and Virginia silkweed, is a species of flowering plant.
Milkweed plants are important to insects. Milkweed perennials (Asclepias spp.) bear many small star-shaped flowers and produce a milky sap; they are named for this sap. Milkweed seeds are easily spread by the wind, which catches the fluffy seeds and carries them long distances. You can collect the seeds after the pods dry and before they split and release seeds. Sow these seeds in fall or spring, in light, sandy soil if possible, and cover lightly with soil.
Swamp Milkweed, white flowering (Asclepias incarnata 'Ice Ballet') Clusters of small white flowers on plants which grow 32-40 high. Usually blooms late June through July. 'Ice Ballet' Swamp Milkweed is a choice nectar plant for numerous butterfly species (including the red admiral shown here). A Monarch butterfly is pictured at the top of this page. Adult Monarchs (and many other butterfly species) love nectar-rich milkweed as a food source, but there is a more important reason for the Monarch's close attachment to milkweed. Milkweed is the only plant material that Monarch caterpillars can eat.