DEFINITION of 'Business'. 1. An organization or enterprising entity engaged in commercial, industrial or professional activities. A business can be a for-profit entity, such as a publicly-traded corporation, or a non-profit organization engaged in business activities, such as an agricultural cooperative. 2.
A business organization is an individual or group of people that collaborate to achieve certain commercial goals. Some business organizations are formed to earn income for owners. Other business organizations, called nonprofits, are formed for public purposes. Organization is a broader term, as it includes businesses and other groups of people not organized for commercial purposes. Clubs and sports teams are examples of non-business organizations.
Types of Business Organization. It is important that the business owner seriously considers the different forms of business organization—types such as sole proprietorship, partnership, and corporation. Which organizational form is most appropriate can be influenced by tax issues, legal issues, financial concerns, and personal concerns. 
Businesses may also be not-for-profit or state-owned. A business owned by multiple individuals may be referred to as a company. Business can refer to a particular organization or to an entire market sector, e.g. the music business. Compound forms such as agribusiness represent subsets of the word's broader meaning, which encompasses all activity by suppliers of goods and services
The term business organization refers to how a business is structured. The business organization is defined in the bylaws when the business is formed with the name and contact information of those who own and run the company with their roles defined. The bylaws state the purpose of the organization and what it does. A corporation is a business organization that has shareholders and a board of directors that govern how the organization will be run. The shareholders are the owners. A corporation will continue to exist even after a shareholder dies.
Definition of Business Organization Law. Business organization law refers to the numerous ways a business may be legally formed under state laws. In addition to incorporating as a corporation, businesses may also be formed as partnerships, limited liability companies (LLCs) , S Corporations, and other business forms
A business, also known as an enterprise or a firm, is an organization involved in the provision of goods, services, or both to consumers. Businesses are prevalent in capitalist economies, where most of them are privately owned and provide goods and services to customers in exchange for other goods, services, or money. A business owned by multiple individuals may be referred to as a company. Business can refer to a particular organization or to an entire market sector, e.g. the music business.
A business entity is an entity that is formed and administered as per commercial law in order to engage in business activities, charitable work, or other activities allowable. Most often, business entities are formed to sell a product or a service. 
Organization Meaning. The best way to derive the meaning of the term business organization is to focus on each word separately. Organization is a broader term, as it includes businesses and other groups of people not organized for commercial purposes. Clubs and sports teams are examples of non-business organizations.