The Sisters of St. Joseph, also known as the Congregation of the Sisters of St. Joseph and abbreviated C.S.J. , is a Roman Catholic religious congregation of women founded in Le Puy-en-Velay, France in 1650. In 1883 four Sisters of St. Joseph arrived at Newton, Kansas, from Rochester, New York, and opened their first mission. After remaining there a year they located at Concordia, Kansas, in the fall of 1884, and established the first motherhouse in the West, in what was then the Diocese of Leavenworth.
Also, if you know of an alternate or additional meaning to one of the names listed, please share that too. Update: I only divided them to make it easier for parents to see common names for girls and boys but, as someone pointed out in the comments, it is difficult to say one name is female or male. You have a great name! I’ve added it to the list. Thanks so much for your help, that was one part of my Rwandan identity i struggled with. Hopeful I shall visit the place soon to learn more. :). I disagree with the meaning transcribed for Bisangwa (I was found).
These qualities may bring you a position of authority and power. You are a doer, down-to-earth, serious-minded, reliable, and self-disciplined; have good power of concentration.You are frank, methodical and believe in law, system and order. You are seeking freedom, opportunities to enjoy life: to make love, to go places and to do things. Fives stand in the center and try to reach all point at the same time, always seeking new places, new faces, new changes, new experiences. They are very welcome by others, because of their honesty (unless operation totally negatively).
9 Your Hidden Passion Number. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate. Fives stand in the center and try to reach all point at the same time, always seeking new places, new faces, new changes, new experiences. They are very welcome by others, because of their honesty (unless operation totally negatively).
As I began thinking of names for the characters, I decided that I wanted names that had meanings significant to the characters personality or role… and then I realised two things: I don’t that many Kinyarwanda names – and of the ones I do, I don’t know the meanings of all of them. You have a great name! I’ve added it to the list. Thanks so much for your help, that was one part of my Rwandan identity i struggled with. Hopeful I shall visit the place soon to learn more. :). I disagree with the meaning transcribed for Bisangwa (I was found).
There are 18 Red-names for baby girls. Red-names are uncommon as baby girl names. Red-names are not listed within the top 1000. Boy [Girl]
In 2007, seven congregations of the Sisters of Saint Joseph in the central United States merged to form an entirely the new Congregation, which is now called the Congregation of Saint Joseph. The Congregation numbered about 700 as of 2011. In 1883 four Sisters of St. Joseph arrived at Newton, Kansas, from Rochester, New York, and opened their first mission. After remaining there a year they located at Concordia, Kansas, in the fall of 1884, and established the first motherhouse in the West, in what was then the Diocese of Leavenworth.
I hope this list will keep on growing! If you know any other names, please share them. In terms of separating between genders, I divided them according to what I thought – but that doesn’t mean that there might be mistakes. I also put a Unisex category for cases where I’ve met both boys and girls with the same name. You have a great name! I’ve added it to the list. Thanks so much for your help, that was one part of my Rwandan identity i struggled with. Hopeful I shall visit the place soon to learn more. :). I disagree with the meaning transcribed for Bisangwa (I was found).
[ syll. re-dem -(p) ta, red-em-pta ] The baby girl name Redempta is pronounced as RihD EH MPTAH †. The origin of Redempta is the Latin language. The name means redemption. Redempta is not frequently used as a baby girl name. It is not listed in the top 1000. 