Infections: HIV patients are vulnerable to infections because the virus infects and destroys the immune system. Many types of bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites may cause illnesses with symptoms of skin rash and fever.
Signs of biliary tract disease in HIV-infected patients are similar to those of HIV-negative patients – right upper quadrant pain, fever, and elevated serum alkaline phosphatase. Causes include gallstone disease as well as AIDS-related cholangitis.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) causes HIV infection and AIDS. The virus attacks the immune system. As the immune system weakens, the body is at risk of getting life-threatening infections and cancers. Once a person has the virus, it stays inside the body for life.
Diarrhea is a common gastrointestinal manifestation, affecting 30 to 60% of North American patients with HIV (15, 69, 100, 152, 153). While frequent causes of HIV-associated diarrhea, the protozoans Cryptosporidium parvum and microsporidia species are rarely associated with significant fever (153).
Kaposi's sarcoma: A cancer called Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) may cause fever and rash in HIV patients. This cancer develops in connective tissues, such as bone, cartilage, fat, blood vessels, muscle, or tissues related to tendons or ligaments.
At each stage in the course of HIV infection, there are numerous potential causes of fever to consider. Studies have documented that with thorough investigation, the etiology of fever can be identified in over 80% of cases (13, 144).
General: In addition to HIV itself, the most common causes of rash and fever in HIV patients are allergic drug reactions, infections, and a cancer called Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). Acute HIV infection: The first stage of HIV, known as the primary or acute infection, may cause symptoms of fever and skin rash. This is because the virus is multiplying rapidly in the body and infecting immune cells. This phase generally lasts several weeks.
Fever is a common complaint among patients with HIV infection and may occur at any point during viral infection (144). Patients with primary HIV infection, the acute retroviral syndrome, can present clinically with a febrile illness resembling mononucleosis.