Like a lot of the best northern mexican cuisine (tacos, burritos, etc) discada originated with the peasants and cowboys. Flank steak marinated in tequila. The cooking implement, called a “disco,” is a repurposed disc harrow from a farm plow. Start with a smoking wood fire. Although it’s existed for generations along the Texas-Mexico border, discada is still a mostly unknown form of grilling outside of the locals. At its essence, discada is simply meat cooked outside over a fire.
The dish includes a mixture of grilled meats cooked on an agricultural plow disk harrow, hence its name. The basic meats for a traditional discada include beef (usually a flank cut), bacon, ham, sausage, and Mexican chorizo. The disk is placed over an open flame, and the ingredients are introduced one at a time. The meats are seasoned and marinated according to the cook's preference and usually include salt, pepper, lime juice, and garlic. Aromatics including white or purple onions, bell peppers, Jalapeno or Serrano peppers, and tomatoes are also used to add flavor and color to the dish.
Discada is a mixed meat dish popular in the northern Mexican states of Baja California, Sinaloa, Sonora, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Durango, Nuevo Leon león And. Tamaulipas the dish includes a mixture of grilled meats cooked on an agricultural plow disk, harrow hence its. name The meats are seasoned and marinated according to the cook's preference and usually include salt, pepper, lime juice, and garlic. Aromatics including white or purple onions, bell peppers, Jalapeno or Serrano peppers, and tomatoes are also used to add flavor and color to the dish.
Discada is a mixed meat dish popular in the northern Mexican states of Baja California, Sinaloa, Sonora, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Durango, Nuevo Leon león And. tamaulipas The meats are seasoned and marinated according to the cook's preference and usually include salt, pepper, lime juice, and garlic. Aromatics including white or purple onions, bell peppers, Jalapeno or Serrano peppers, and tomatoes are also used to add flavor and color to the dish.
Made time s. 51. Recipe by: RHONDA35. In this recipe, chunks of lean beef are simmered with fresh tomatoes, bell pepper, onion, garlic, and Mexican seasonings to make a rich spicy gravy (guisada). Serve with warm tortillas and garnish with guacamole, sour cream, and/or cheddar cheese for awesome guisada tacos
When it comes to discada, Ken doesn’t like to stray from his family recipe but here are some other recipes we found for your next disco-meal. Que Rica Vida has an all-pork discada recipe that contains pork rinds, bacon and chorizo. This Discada Nortena norteña recipe is made with a vegetable medley and melted. cheese Start with a smoking wood fire. Although it’s existed for generations along the Texas-Mexico border, discada is still a mostly unknown form of grilling outside of the locals. At its essence, discada is simply meat cooked outside over a fire.
Que Rica Vida has an all-pork discada recipe that contains pork rinds, bacon and chorizo. This Discada Nortena norteña recipe is made with a vegetable medley and melted. Cheese for a healthier, Option Heart Safe cooking has a discada made with. chicken Start with a smoking wood fire. Although it’s existed for generations along the Texas-Mexico border, discada is still a mostly unknown form of grilling outside of the locals. At its essence, discada is simply meat cooked outside over a fire.
Serves 6-8. Ingredients: 1 lb ground meat (Discada is usually made with a combination of pork and beef) 2 cups chopped ham 2 cups chopped hotdog links 5 ounces of Chorizo (Mexican Spicy Pork Sausage) 1 onion, cut into thin slices 1 cup chopped bell peppers (optional, any color) 2 minced jalapeno peppers. Hi everyone! Today I will be sharing with you, one of my Hometown's favorite dishes! It's called Discada, and its a Meat Lover's dream! This dish is very popular in the North of Mexico specially in Monterrey and Coahuila, which is my hometown.
Richard Gonzales of Cervantes Food Products is our guest chef for this delicious episode! Watch and share as Richard makes these incredible Spicy and Sweet Red Chile Fajitas on the DISC-IT. This discada is like a wok of art! 1  People & Blogs. 