It is obvious that Paleontology is a wide spread science, but it also contains subdivisions such as Paleobotany, the study of prehistoric plants, or Biostratigraphy, the dating of fossils in relation to other fossils around it. Paleontologists study both body fossils and trace fossils.
A paleontologist studies the history and process of evolution by examining fossils, the preserved traces of long dead animals and plants. Using data from fossilized bones, ancient pollen, and other clues, paleontologists dig up the details on past climates and past extinctions.
The various types of paleontologists use knowledge from anthropology, archaeology, biology, geology, ecology and computer science to determine the origin and destruction of the different types of organisms that have existed on Earth.
Paleontology, put simply, is the study of prehistoric life. This includes the history of the earth, the organisms in it, as well as their evolution, and their interactions with other organisms and the environment.
How to become a Paleontologist. Paleontologists study and research forms of life from prehistoric or geologic times; they perform these studies through the examination of fossils of plants, animals and other organisms. Most entry-level positions in paleontology require a master's degree in geology or earth science.
Paleontologists study fossils and attempt to use them to reconstruct the history of the Earth and the life on it. Some paleontologists study the ecology of the past; others work on the evolution of fossil taxa. For additional information on the subdisciplines of paleontology, read our What is paleontology? page.
Paleontology is difficult to distinguish from archeology. Archeology is the study of human remains and civilizations, while paleontologists study human evolution and the effects that the environment had on early humans. The two are separate but frequently overlap. Paleontology is also in-between the sciences of biology and geology as it uses many elements of both.