Vintage Fiesta Covered Casserole in Original 50s Chartreuse Glaze ». Circa 1951-1959: It is a treat to find the rarer 50s colors, and especially the most desirable of them, the Chartreuse Green glaze, on the classic Fiesta shapes that were in production since the lines release in the mid 30s. 
During the 1950's, several additional colors were added to the original five Fiesta colors. Colors introduced during the 1930's and 1950's are often referred to as original or vintage Fiesta. During the 1960’s Homer Laughlin faced fierce foreign competition that threatened the survival of the business. Homer Laughlin, having retained all original molds to the Fiesta pattern would produce the items for Bloomingdales. Five new colors were introduced in the Bloomingdales line. These colors were a bit pale compared to the bright reds and deep blues of the original Fiesta line and those that are in production today.
Fiesta ware was originally introduced in just 5 colors, Red (it may look orange, but everyone seems to have agreed to keep with its original name of red), Blue (cobalt now), Green (light or original green), Yellow and Old Ivory (simply ivory now), with Turquoise not hitting the shelves until 1937. 
Beginning in 1959, Fiesta was available in the following colors: Red (original orange red), Green (new Medium green), Yellow (original golden), and Turquoise (original robin's egg blue). Although this color assortment was available and sold for ten years (1959–1969), the popularity of Fiesta had fallen. Some of the original shapes were redesigned and other new shapes were designed as part of the 1986 reintroduction by Jonathan O. Parry, who became the company art director in 1984. As a line of open-stock dinnerware, Fiesta allows buyers to select by the piece, rather than requiring the purchase of entire sets.
Fiesta, or Fiestaware, was first presented in 1936, at which time there were five colors: green, yellow, ivory, blue, and red. It should be noted that the red is quite orange, the green is often called light green, the yellow is brilliant, and the blue is deep, often called dark blue or cobalt. 
The original 1936 Fiesta line was limited to just five colors — red (which resembles orange), blue (these days it’s known as cobalt), green (sometimes called light or original green), yellow, and old ivory (“old” was dropped). A year later, turquoise hit the shelves. 
Well discuss more about red Fiestaware in a later post. The 1950s Fiesta Colors In the 1950s, the Fiestaware line was greatly expanded to include chartreuse, forest green, gray, rose and medium green. Of these colors, medium green is often the rarest color to find a piece of Fiestaware in. Medium green was in production between 1959 and 1969. These discontinued Fiestaware colors can be divided into several categories: The Original Fiesta Colors The original colors are cobalt blue, light green, ivory, red, turquoise and yellow. These colors were introduced in 1936. Of these colors, the production periods are as follows: 1  Cobalt Blue Fiestaware - 1936 to 1951
The first six colors were produced through the 1930's and 40's until a change in fashion direction dictated a change to a softer palette of pastel colors at the beginning of the 1950's. Color trends moved back to brighter colors in the early 1960's and FIESTA® moved with the trend. By the late 60's earthtones were in vogue and the dinnerware industry turned in that direction. Popularity of these colors proved to be short-lived and sales began to fall. In the seventy-nine years since FIESTA® was first produced, there have been a total of 47 colors in the line. Today, Homer Laughlin introduces one new color each year and FIESTA® has become the leading dinnerware brand in casual tabletop, as well as a consistent leader in bridal registries across America.
Fiesta is a line of ceramic Art Deco dinnerware glazed in differing solid colors manufactured and marketed by the Homer Laughlin China Company of Newell, West Virginia. The original shapes, glazes and concept of combining various colors were designed by the company's art director Frederick Hurten Rhead in the 1930s. The dinnerware was introduced for retail sales to great success in 1936. Some of the original shapes were redesigned and other new shapes were designed as part of the 1986 reintroduction by Jonathan O. Parry, who became the company art director in 1984. As a line of open-stock dinnerware, Fiesta allows buyers to select by the piece, rather than requiring the purchase of entire sets.