The commonly proposed period of earlier Vedic age is dated back to 2nd millennium BCE. The Vedic religion was the religion of the Indo-Aryan peoples, and existed in northern India from c. 1750 to 500 BCE. The Indo-Aryans were a branch of the Indo-European languages originating in the Kurgan culture of the steppes of Central Asia. bringing with them their language and religion. The Vedic religion of the later Vedic period co-existed with local religions, such as the Yaksha cults, and was itself the product of a composite of the Indo-Aryan and Harappan cultures and civilizations.
But there is much evidence of a link between the early Greeks and the more ancient Vedic civilization of India, suggesting that Vedic culture flowed west to Persia and Europe. 27 Maurice Winternitz, A History of Vedic Literature, Vol. 1, pp. 282-283. 
History Atlas: Maps of the Vedic Age and Indian History. Overview. The Vedic Age is the heroic age of ancient Indian civilization. It is also the formative period when the basic foundations of Indian civilization were laid down. These include the emergence of early Hinduism as the foundational religion of India, and the social/religious phenomenon known as caste. 
The religion of the Vedic period (also known as Vedism, ancient Hinduism, Brahmanism and Vedic Brahmanism) was the religion of the Indo-Aryans of northern India. It is a historical predecessor of modern Hinduism, though significantly different from it. The Vedic religion of the later Vedic period co-existed with local religions, such as the Yaksha cults, and was itself the product of a composite of the Indo-Aryan and Harappan cultures and civilizations.
The Vedic period (or Vedic age) (c. 1500–500 BCE) was the period in Indian history during which the Vedas, the oldest scriptures of Hinduism, were composed. During the early part of the Vedic period, the Indo-Aryans settled into northern India, bringing with them their specific religious traditions. The end of the Vedic period witnessed the rise of large, urbanized states as well as of shramana movements (including Jainism and Buddhism) which challenged the Vedic orthodoxy. Around the beginning of the Common Era, the Vedic tradition formed one of the main constituents of the so-called  Hindu synthesis 
User: The Vedic civilization was an Aryan society located in this region. Weegy: Is there a question for me?Expert answered|paral|Points 3034|User: The Vedic civilization was an Aryan society located in this region. 
The Aryan Migration. Before the time of the Aryan migration into the Indian subcontinent, there was a highly developed civilization in ancient India known as the Indus Valley Civilization, which was located in what is Pakistan and northwest India today, on the fertile flood plain of the Indus River and its vicinity. 