PCR is a standard laboratory technique that allows amplification of specific segments of DNA based on complementarity. 
As the name implies, it is a chain reaction, a small fragment of the DNA section of interest needs to be identified which serves as the template for producing the primers that initiate the reaction. Programming PCRs. PCR is an iterative process, consisting of 3 elements; denaturation of the template by heat, annealing of the oligonucleotide primers to the single stranded target sequence(s), and extension of the annealed primers by a thermostable DNA polymerase.
For most, if not all of these applications, alternative methods of DNA (or RNA) amplification, can be substituted. For example helicase-dependent amplification (HDA) and recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) are isothermal alternatives to PCR that can be used for the same purposes. 1 PCR can also be used as part of a sensitive test for tissue typing, vital to organ transplantation. 2  As of 2008, there is even a proposal to replace the traditional antibody-based tests for blood type with PCR-based tests. 3  Many forms of cancer involve alterations to oncogenes.
Theory. Polymerase chain reaction, better known as PCR, is one of the technologies that not only made a tremendous impact on the scientific community, but also affected many aspects of our everyday lives. Programming PCRs. PCR is an iterative process, consisting of 3 elements; denaturation of the template by heat, annealing of the oligonucleotide primers to the single stranded target sequence(s), and extension of the annealed primers by a thermostable DNA polymerase.
Working principle of PCR. As the name implies, it is a chain reaction, a small fragment of the DNA section of interest needs to be identified which serves as the template for producing the primers that initiate the reaction. One DNA molecule is used to produce two copies, then four, then eight and so forth. Programming PCRs. PCR is an iterative process, consisting of 3 elements; denaturation of the template by heat, annealing of the oligonucleotide primers to the single stranded target sequence(s), and extension of the annealed primers by a thermostable DNA polymerase.
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a laboratory technique used to amplify DNA sequences. The method involves using short DNA sequences called primers to select the portion of the genome to be amplified. 
What is Biomedical Research. Biomedical research is the broad area of science that looks for ways to prevent and treat diseases that cause illness and death in people and in animals. This general field of research includes many areas of both the life and physical sciences. Utilizing biotechnology techniques, biomedical researchers study biological processes and diseases with the ultimate goal of developing effective treatments and cures. Biomedical research is an evolutionary process requiring careful experimentation by many scientists, including biologists and chemists.
A resource on PCR for forensic science. DNA profiling (DNA typing, genetic fingerprinting, DNA testing) is a technique used by forensic scientists to identify someone based on their DNA profile. PCR can be used as a tool in genetic fingerprinting. This technology can identify any one person from millions of others. 
News. The invention of the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) radically changed biology. The technique was considered so important that the Nobel Prize was awarded to its inventor, Kary Mullis, in 1993. Thanks to this technique, very small samples of DNA (from as little as a single cell) can be analyzed. 