Bicultural socialization is to be socialized and functioning in two distinct cultures. Example: A child of first generation immigrants understands and functions fully in his/her ethnic culture at home, but is also able to fully function in and understands the culture of his school and greater community.
To define bilingual through bicultural identity is perhaps a good place to start. It is said that to truly understand a language you have to understand the culture. I always thought this was kind of silly until I lived it.
bi·cul·tur·al. adj. Of or relating to two distinct cultures in one nation or geographic region: bicultural education. bi·cul′tur·al·ism n. 1  Facebook.
biculturalism   Combining two distinct cultures in a single region   Bicultural policies in New Zealand/Aotearoa focus on the recognition of different cultural va … lues and the sharing of power between two peoples-the indigenous Maori, and the immigrant Europeans.
By Jeffrey Nelson. Bicultural identity is the condition of being oneself regarding the combination of two cultures. Having a bicultural identity is one of the special aspects about being bilingual or multilingual. It would be hard to define bilingual without speaking also to bicultural.
Having or combining the cultural attitudes and customs of two nations, peoples, or ethnic groups: there is too little recognition of the children’s bilingual and bicultural status. More example sentences. 1  But we have some way to travel before we can become a bicultural, bi-structural nation.
1 Hence, the results revealed that students who had a greater awareness for, and interest in developing biculturalism had superior grade point average than their counterparts who had less interest in their heritage.
Biculturalism. Biculturalism in sociology involves two originally distinct cultures in some form of co-existence. A policy recognizing, fostering or encouraging biculturalism typically emerges in countries that have emerged from a history of national or ethnic conflict in which neither side has gained complete victory.