A genetic disease is due to a faulty gene or group of genes. While not all gene defects cause disease, many do. New genetic diseases are discovered every month; as of 2001, there are estimated to be approximately 1,100 genetic diseases. 
Mitochondrial diseases are very rare. However, they are very interesting because they are genetic diseases, and yet are very different to all other types of genetic disease. Surprisingly, there is actually DNA in the body that is not on any of the 46 chromosomes. 
Disease at the Organelle Level Human Body German physiologist Rudolph Virchow first hypothesized cellular pathology--disease at the cellular level--in the 1850s. Today, new treatments for many disorders are a direct result of understanding a disease process at the cellular level. Here, we take a look at how three abnormalities--in cell membranes, in peroxisomes, and in lysosomes--cause whole-body symptoms.
The vacuole is a very dangerous organelle. The malfunction of the vacuole can cause disease such as Danon disease. Danons disease is cause by mutations in the LAMP 2 gene which usually helps with the fusion of autophagic vacuoles and lysosomes. When there are mutations with this gene then the lysosomes and the autophagic vacuole fuse very slowly
Mitochondrial disease is a group of disorders caused by dysfunctional mitochondria, the organelles that generate energy for the cell. 
The answer is yes. The malfunction of the peroxisomes will cause a disease called Adrenoleukodystrophy(ALD). It is a disease which caused by the accumulation of very-long chain fatty acids in tissues throughout the body. 
It is caused by a defect in the micro tubules of the Golgi Apparatus. This terrible disease is not the only disease that the Golgi Apparatus can cause. The Golgi can cause many other terrible disease such as Alzheimer's which is an age-related, non-reversible brain disorder.
X-ray of a baby with Achondrogenesis. A terrible disease that the Golgi Body causes is Achondrogenesis which is a group of severe disorders that affect cartilage and bone development. There are three types of Achondrogenesis-Types IA, IB and II. All of these types are phenotypically similar and lethal. This terrible disease is not the only disease that the Golgi Apparatus can cause. The Golgi can cause many other terrible disease such as Alzheimer's which is an age-related, non-reversible brain disorder.
Cell Organelles & Diseases. Understanding Disease at the Organelle Level: created with Zunal WebQuest Maker. Task 2: Investigate the connections between dysfunctional organelles and disease. A) Directions: The websites listed below contain information on various diseases and the dysfunctional organelles that cause them. Investigate these diseases