SA. IE11 in WIN 7 trying to access a SAP application gets this error message, Sorry, your browser/program is not supported by Web Dynpro!. Worked fine with IE10. I fixed my problem by adding the website to my Compatibility View settings. 
This is for those who are new to Web Dynpro programming. Here is an explanation of how to set up a Web Dynpro application using the context and binding the context to User Interface (UI) elements of the application. This is only a basic explanation to help set a foundation for understanding Web Dynpro programming. 
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Introduction to SAP Web DynPro for ABAP Training on how to develop your first WDA application. Walk through the Views, Windows, Context, Component Controller and more. Web DynPro for ABAP is replacing BSPs. 
Course Description. SAP Web Dynpro ABAP online training with Tech Video is a self paced video based course. This course covers the following contents; Course Overview/ Web Dynpro Introduction. 1  Web Dynpro ABAP Component Architecture. 
Subject. This document discusses ABAP Web Dynpro Application Parameters – what they are, how they can be set, and which ones to pay attention to in NW 7.02. In particular, we look at how global application parameters can be adjusted to improve the look and feel of all your ABAP Web Dynpro applications. 
Web Dynpro (WD) is a proprietary web application technology developed by SAP SE that focuses on the development of server-side business applications. One of its main design features is that the user interface is defined in an entirely declarative manner. Web Dynpro applications can be developed using either a Java (Web Dynpro for Java, WDJ or WD4J) or ABAP (Web Dynpro ABAP, WDA or WD4A) flavor. The earliest version of Web Dyn in 2003 and was based on Java. This variant was released some 18 months before the ABAP variant
Additional Information. For more information about Web Dynpro ABAP, see the SDN: ● The Web Dynpro ABAP Knowledge Center is a collection of information about various aspects of Web Dynpro ABAP. 
DynPro SAP Solutions For Any Organization. Implementing SAP can improve your visibility within the organization and manage resources to highlight your bottlenecks. You can allow your workforces to utilize customer information to deliver products and services in time, with minimal resource wastage. 
Web Dynpro ABAP and Web Dynpro Java mostly offer the same functionalities. But, of course, there are some differences between them, for example: 1  Web Dynpro Java, unlike the Web Dynpro ABAP, disposes of a ViewSet that allows us to integrate in a Screen more Views, by using certain pre-defined layouts. Web Dynpro ABAP offers many advantages, as follows: 1  Strict separation between the layout and business data. 2  Re-use and better maintainability through reusability. 3  Automatic input checks. 4  Automatic data transport, using data binding. 5  WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) view editor.