And the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter. Holman Christian Standard Bible. The name of the star is Wormwood, and a third of the waters became wormwood. The name of the star is 'Wormwood;' and a third part of the waters were turned into wormwood, and vast numbers of the people died from drinking the water, because it had become bitter. World English Bible. The name of the star is called Wormwood..
Wormwood is generally used in the manufacture of vermouth or white wine, while another species known as sweet wormwood (A. annua) is grown as a decorative plant. However, in addition to being an ornamental plant, sweet wormwood is rich in vital oil that has powerful functions against fungus and bacteria. Primarily native to Europe, wormwood is a perennial shrub-like herb that has grayish-white colored stems wrapped with delicate and glossy hairs. Wormwood normally grows up to a height between one and three feet and bears leaves that are smooth, hairy and contain secretary cells.
Answer: Wormwood is the name of a star in Revelation 8:10-11: The third angel sounded his trumpet, and a great star, blazing like a torch, fell from the sky on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water the name of the star is Wormwood. 
Wormwood (ἀψίνθιον apsinthion or ἄψινθος apsinthos in Greek), is a star or angel that appears in the Book of Revelation. In the Bible [edit]. Apsinthos in the Greek text, translated as wormwood in English language versions of the Bible, is thought to be Artemisia herba-alba. Wormwood is mentioned seven times in the Jewish Bible, always with the implication of bitterness
Wormwood is an herb. The above-ground plant parts and oil are used for medicine. Wormwood is used for various digestion problems such as loss of appetite, upset stomach, gall bladder disease, and intestinal spasms. Wormwood is also used to treat fever, liver disease, and worm infections; to increase sexual desire; as a tonic; and to stimulate sweating. Wormwood oil is used as a counterirritant to reduce pain. In manufacturing, wormwood oil is used as a fragrance component in soaps, cosmetics, and perfumes. It is also used as an insecticide. Wormwood is used in some alcoholic beverages. Vermouth, for example, is a wine beverage flavored with extracts of wormwood. Absinthe is another well-known alcoholic beverage made with wormwood. It is an emerald-green alcoholic drink that is prepared from wormwood oil, often along with other dried herbs such as anise and fennel
Wormwood is the common name for Artemisia absinthium, the plant whose aromatic oil is used to make absinthe. Although absinthe contains extracts from a whole variety of different plants, wormwood oil is the key ingredient of the famed green drink, and perhaps the reason why absinthe is quite unlike any other liquor ever produced. Wormwood is a wild plant of the daisy family. Native to Europe, it can now be found in many other parts of the world, especially North America. Wormwood is a perennial plant that flowers year after year. It grows between 30 to 90 cm (12 to 36 in) tall and has small, yellowish flower heads
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Artemisia absinthium (absinthium, absinthe wormwood, wormwood, common wormwood, green ginger or grand wormwood) is a species of Artemisia, native to temperate regions of Eurasia and Northern Africa and widely naturalized in Canada and the northern United States. 