PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH. The true origin of the Pennsylvania Dutch is often confused by researchers new to genealogical research in Pennsylvania. The people known as the Pennsylvania Dutch are not from Holland but are of a mixture of German, Swiss, and French Huguenot origin. Some Cherokee & Chickasaw Indians are called Black Dutch. Black Dutch may be synonymous with Pennsylvania Germans who settled in the area of Pennsylvania in groups together. When asked where they were from, they said Deutsche sounding to us like Dutch, but actually meaning German in their own language.
The Pennsylvania Dutch (Pennsilfaanisch Deitsch) are a cultural group formed by early German-speaking immigrants to Pennsylvania and their descendants. This early wave of settlers, which would eventually coalesce to form the Pennsylvania Dutch, began in the late 17th century and concluded in the late 18th century. Pennsylvania Dutch is most likely a corruption of the endonym Deitsch, which is a local variant of the modern German endonym Deutsch, meaning German. The word Dutch and Deutsch share the same origin and similar pronunciation
Alternatively, some sources give the origin of Dutch in this case as a corruption or a folk-rendering of the Pennsylvania German endonym Deitsch. Speakers of the language today are primarily found in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana and other Midwestern States of the United States and in Ontario in Canada. Instead it is probably left over from an archaic sense of the English word Dutch; compare German Deutsch ('German'), Dutch Duits ('German'), Diets ('Dutch'), which once referred to any people speaking a non-peripheral continental West Germanic language on the European mainland.
The Pennsylvania Germans or Pennsylvania Dutch – the terms are equivalent – are the descendants of German-speaking emigrants who settled in Pennsylvania beginning in 1683, with the founding of Germantown, and continuing to about 1815 to 1820, the close of the Napoleonic Wars in Europe. This vital American culture is still evident in Pennsylvania and in areas settled by the Pennsylvania Dutch Diaspora in the 18th and 19th centuries. These areas include the Upland South from Western Maryland to the Carolinas; many areas of the Midwest; and parts of Ontario and New Brunswick in Canada.
It has traditionally been the language of the Pennsylvania Dutch, descendants of late 17th-and early 18th-century immigrants to Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and North Carolina from southern Germany, eastern France (Alsace and Lorraine) and Switzerland. Instead it is probably left over from an archaic sense of the English word Dutch; compare German Deutsch ('German'), Dutch Duits ('German'), Diets ('Dutch'), which once referred to any people speaking a non-peripheral continental West Germanic language on the European mainland.
We are the sons and daughters of the Pennsylvania Dutch. Some were Brethren, Reformed, Lutheran, Mennonite, Amish, Catholic or of other faiths or a very few of no faith at all. They came to America from Switzerland, Germany, and the eastern parts of France or wherever the German language was spoken before 1800. The FamilyHart Online Database is all about discovering ancestors and their descendants. The database contains over 900,000 linked names online, mostly of Pennsylvania Dutch extraction from Pennsylvania and Maryland, though it contains a large amound of entries from every U.S. state and many foreign countries. It is hosted on several different sites and in several different formats
Historically they have spoken the dialect of German known as Pennsylvania German or Pennsylvania Dutch. In this context, the word Dutch does not refer to the Dutch people or their descendants, but to Deutsch (German). Pennsylvania Dutch is most likely a corruption of the endonym Deitsch, which is a local variant of the modern German endonym Deutsch, meaning German. The word Dutch and Deutsch share the same origin and similar pronunciation