What is vesting age? The age at which you start receiving pension in an insurance-cum-pension plan is known as vesting age. FAQs: 
Cliff Vesting. Under the cliff vesting schedule, none of your employer's contributions to your 401(k) become vested until you have completed three years of service. At that point, the money is completely vested. Under the graduated vesting schedule, your employer's contributions are vested over the course of six years. None of the money is vested until you have completed two years of service, at which point 20 percent of your employer's contributions are vested.
The term vest is significant in the law, because it means that a person has an absolute right to some present or future interest in something of value. When a right has vested, the person is legally entitled to what has been promised and may seek relief in court if the benefit is not given. TO VEST, estates. To give an immediate fixed right of present or future enjoyment; an estate is vested in possession when there exists a right of present enjoyment; and an estate is vested in interest, when there is a present fixed right of future, enjoyment. Feame on Rem. 2; vide 2 Rop on Leg. 757; 8 Com
DEFINITION of 'Vesting'. The process by which an employee accrues non-forfeitable rights over employer-provided stock incentives or employer contributions made to the employee's qualified retirement plan account or pension plan. 
Vesting. 1  No vesting at all in the first years, followed by a sudden 100% vesting after not more than three years of service (cliff vesting); or. 2  Twenty percent vesting after the second year of service, with 20% more each year until 100% vesting occurs after the sixth year of service (graded vesting). 
If you live in Wisconsin, most of your benefit will be subject to federal and state income taxes. 1  The portion of your benefit that is based on pre-tax contributions will be taxable. 2  This includes your employee-required contributions. 
DEFINITION of 'Fully Vested'. A person's right to the full amount of some type of benefit, most commonly employee benefits such as stock options, profit sharing or retirement benefits. Fully vested benefits often accrue to employees each year, but they only become the employee's property according to a vesting schedule. 
In law, vesting is to give an immediately secured right of present or future deployment. One has a vested right to an asset that cannot be taken away by any third party, even though one may not yet possess the asset. 