Types of Natural Selection. Directional selectionDirectional Selection:A type of selection that removes individuals from one end of a phenotypic distribution and thus causes a shift in the distribution. occurs when natural selection favors one extreme of continuous variation. Over time, the intermediate states become more common and each extreme variation will become less common or lost. Natural selection can occur with or without environmental change. 1  In a constant environment, natural selection will keep a population stable and essentially maintain the status quo. 2  In a constant environment, if a new variationVariation:The differences among individuals in a popul
Lesson Summary. In summary, directional selection is a type of natural selection in which individuals with a trait at one end of a phenotypic spectrum are most fit. Disruptive selection is a type of natural selection in which individuals at either end of a phenotypic spectrum are most fit. Stabilizing selection is a type of selection in which individuals in the middle of a phenotypic spectrum are most fit. 
Natural selection acts on the phenotype, or the observable characteristics of an organism, but the genetic (heritable) basis of any phenotype that gives a reproductive advantage may become more common in a population (see allele frequency). In other words, natural selection is an important process (though not the only process) by which evolution takes place within a population of organisms. Natural selection can be contrasted with artificial selection, in which humans intentionally choose specific traits (although they may not always get what they want).
Best Answer: I can think of three types of natural selection. I'm not sure why the question asks for four. Here they are: 1) Stabilizing selection: this is when natural selection works against the two extremes of a trait to make the population more uniform. 2) Directional selection: this type of selection works to select the extreme of one trait. For example, in a population of plants, flowers with the brightest color might be selected for in order to attract the most pollinators. 3) Disruptive selection: this type of selection selects against the mean of the population.
Natural selection is the differential survival and reproduction of individuals due to differences in phenotype; it is a key mechanism of evolution. In other words, natural selection is an important process (though not the only process) by which evolution takes place within a population of organisms. Natural selection can be contrasted with artificial selection, in which humans intentionally choose specific traits (although they may not always get what they want).
1 In a constant environment, natural selection will keep a population stable and essentially maintain the status quo. 2  In a constant environment, if a new variationVariation:The differences among individuals in a population. Over time, the intermediate states become more common and each extreme variation will become less common or lost. Natural selection can occur with or without environmental change. 1  In a constant environment, natural selection will keep a population stable and essentially maintain the status quo.
Often, natural selection acts on specific traits of an individual, and the terms phenotype and genotype are used narrowly to indicate these specific traits. When different organisms in a population possess different versions of a gene for a certain trait, each of these versions is known as an allele. In other words, natural selection is an important process (though not the only process) by which evolution takes place within a population of organisms. Natural selection can be contrasted with artificial selection, in which humans intentionally choose specific traits (although they may not always get what they want).