Working on a earth stabilization project along a riverfront using steel sheet piling. The steel sheet pile river wall will vary in height along the riverfront as the riverbank is steeper in areas. Sheet piling length will vary from 44'(28' in ground) in steep areas to 21' (15' in ground) in less steep areas. Anchoring will be necessary using bulkheads. I would estimate rough costs to be $25,000 sheeting contractor mob, $30 sf to drive $2 lb to fab & install wale $5,000 mob for anchor sub mob $3,000 per anchor.
Price depends on a number of factors, none of which you have given. A low sheet pile wall, 200 - 300 feet long, may not have many total square feet of sheet piling. Mobilization costs therefore may be a huge factor in the unit price. Is the price to include only the sheet piling or also the bracing or tieback anchors? Tiebacks alone could cost about $10 to $20 per exposed SF of wall face. I would estimate that a wall this small could easily cost $30 (not tiebacks or braces) to $70 (tied or braced) per SF of exposed
RE: Steel Sheet Piling Costs. I agree best aproach is to get a contractor to give you an estimate. R.S. Means can give you a good idea also. I would estimate rough costs to be $25,000 sheeting contractor mob, $30 sf to drive $2 lb to fab & install wale $5,000 mob for anchor sub mob $3,000 per anchor.
The installation of a combined sheet piling wall system is typically a two-or three-step process: 1  Use a vibro hammer to drive the beams or king piles as far as possible. Driving Experiences and Practical Tips. A traditional combined sheet piling system has a typical sheet width of 6.33 feet (1.93 M) – two halves of each beam, two connectors, and two intermediate sheets. The usual sheet-to-beam ratio in a combined sheet piling wall system is around 75% sheet to 25% beam.
Retaining Wall Costs. The cost of a retaining wall depends on the material chosen, the overall height of the wall and the length of the wall. Wood retaining walls start at $15 per square foot, while concrete retaining walls start at $20 per square foot. 
Hence, you are likely to only encounter hard driving 25% of the length of a combined sheet piling wall system versus 100% hard driving for a contiguous sheet pile wall. Driving Experiences and Practical Tips. A traditional combined sheet piling system has a typical sheet width of 6.33 feet (1.93 M) – two halves of each beam, two connectors, and two intermediate sheets. The usual sheet-to-beam ratio in a combined sheet piling wall system is around 75% sheet to 25% beam.
It could cost as much to install a 22 psf sheet as it would to install a 27 or 35 psf sheet. At $1.00/lb, the price could vary from $22 to $35 per sf of steel area. You need to gather and price all of the pieces of work scope or get a guesstimate from a local contractor after you give him more information. Is the price to include only the sheet piling or also the bracing or tieback anchors? Tiebacks alone could cost about $10 to $20 per exposed SF of wall face. I would estimate that a wall this small could easily cost $30 (not tiebacks or braces) to $70 (tied or braced) per SF of exposed
a) Design Moment For example, say in a section of plans which has 500 feet (~152 m) of wall length and a sheet-piling length of 48 feet (14.6 m), you require a minimum design moment of 75.8 k-in./ft (~28 KN-m/m). Then, any hot-rolled steel piling section meeting the required 75.8 k-in./ft. Steel Sheet Piling Cost and Bidding. In order to secure the most efficient steel piling solution for your structural design needs, we suggest that you clearly state valid strength parameter.” For most applications, either of the following examples should be used:
Evaluating the various retaining wall systems for specific project requirements can be complicated and time consuming. The steel sheet piling installation has the shortest construction duration overall, and can provide up to a 60% cost savings over other retaining walls. From their decision-making matrix, the Federal Highway Administration concludes that for permanent retaining wall structures, cost and speed of construction are typically among the most important wall selection factors areas where steel sheet piling excels.