Cost Difference. Today laminated shingles are available in many different warranty lengths from 25 to 50 years. Typically, the cost of architectural shingles is only about 20% more than the traditional 3 tab shingles. Some of the higher end 50 year products can be as much as twice as expensive to buy. 3 tab shingles are almost dead in most parts of the US. Look around, that’s pretty easy to determine. There is a usually a minimal price difference of $5-$8/square difference. Most will agree that arch’s look better and is worth the extra $100-$200 for a more modern/newer looking roof.
Architectural roof shingles are a type of asphalt shingle that is designed to look more ascetically appealing. Many feel that architectural shingles or a.k.a laminate or dimensional shingles resemble the look of wood shake. Architectural shingles are an upgraded shingle when compared to traditional 3-tab shingles. Architectural Shingles Cost. * The best way to know how much architectural shingles cost in your area is to contact multiple roofing contractors and get prices. Architectural shingle prices have continued to rise throughout the years.
Finally, one of the ultimate benefits of architectural shingles is the warranty. Ranging from 35 – 45 years (or sometimes, to the shingles’ lifetime), all architectural shingles come with some type of valuable warranty that is much longer than 3 tab which a normal warranty from around 25-30. You’re also looking at a less durable shingle in the three tab, less resistant to the elements, including wind and the sun, which could cause early shingle replacement and cost more money. The three tab also doesn’t make your home look the way an architectural shingle can.
The ProLAM™ line is a professional grade, laminated architectural shingle. It comes with a Lifetime Limited Warranty, up to a 110 mph Wind Warranty, and Algae Resistance features. ProLAM™ architectural shingles deliver high performance, not a high cost. The larger format of ProLAM™ will give your roof a distinct designer look with the versatility to match homes of any style. ProLAM™ architectural shingles are available in a sophisticated palette of designer color blends that will complement any home design, from craftsman to mid-century modern.
There are definitely architectural shingles that can cost $2000.00 more than a regular 3-tab for the specified roof size. The cost is affected by things like shingle weight, lamination, color variance, depth, and manufactured quality. As you will see below, the $77 / square up-charge was completely unjustified. The cost difference between 3-tab and architectural shingles is only $10 per square, while ALL other components of the system as well as the installation cost the same. Thus, the difference should be maybe $300-500 – not $1700! For the purposes of this article, we will concentrate on MATERIAL prices
(By com-parison, a 30-year architectural shingle weighs about 250 lb. per square and three-tab shingles around 200 lb.)Lifetime shingles typically use a mix of light and dark gran-ules to enhance the shingle’s depth further. 
1 GAF 3-Tab shingles cost approximately $2 to $3 per square foot installed (or $2,000 to $6,000 for an average-sized 2,000 square foot roof). 2  GAF Timberline roofing shingles cost around $3 to $5 per square foot installed ($6,000 to $10,000). Timberline Roof Shingle Prices. GAF has been in business for more than 125 years and is the largest manufacturer of commercial and residential roofing in North America. The company offers three distinct lines of roofing shingles, including Timberline shingles, the top-selling shingle
$$-$$$. Architectural shingles are by far a superior product to older 3-Tab shingles. However, these new singles do cost more and might not always be needed on a tight budget. Architectural shingles cost about $16.00-$25.00 per sq. more than a 25yr 3-Tab shingle. On a typical 30sq house, this cost can add between $480.00-$750.00 to the cost of materials. This price often varies, so make sure you get a specific quote from your roofer. 