Once you have followed the strict Candida diet for some time, you can start to reintroduce some foods into your diet. These mostly fall under the categories of beans, high carb vegetables or fruits. 
The worse thing you can give your body in regard to the Candida Diet and in regard to health in general is sugar. It weakens the immune system and gives yeast a spectacular feast. Sugar is Candida's favorite food. If you remove nothing else from your diet, it must be sugar. 
The main goal of the Candida Diet is to reduce the amount of food you eat that makes Candida yeast proliferate. The primary food source of yeast is sugar. The more fuel you provide this little beast the more it will grow and the higher your level of overgrowth is the more undesirable symptoms you will experience. By following a Candida diet, you not only experience less symptoms, but you also reduce the amount of yeast in your body to allow the antifungals and probiotics to have a fighting chance in restoring balance.
These candida diet blueberry muffins have a nostalgic taste. Coconut flour gives these breakfast pastries a doughy consistency and slight biscuit flavor. Hints of cinnamon and stevia take this muffin to delicious heights of sweetness for a muffin that is classic and comforting. Candida Alert: Even though fruit sugars are naturally occurring and come hand in hand with healthy fiber and nutrients, the body still registers them as sugar. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. In a large bowl, combine the almond flour, coconut flour, cinnamon, salt, baking soda, cream of tartar, and chia seeds. Stir the dry ingredients to thoroughly combine them. In a medium-sized bowl, beat two eggs. To the eggs, add milk, stevia, vanilla, melted butter, Greek yogurt, and lemon juice. Whisk these ingredients to combine. If necessary, use a rubber spatula to cream the yogurt into the mixture to break up any large lumps
Another general consensus among candida experts is that berries such as blueberries, raspberries, blackberries, strawberries and cranberries are acceptable on the candida diet because these berries have a higher fiber to sugar ratio. The recommendations for which foods to eat and avoid on the so-called “candida diet” are all over the place. Experts can’t even agree as you’ll find websites with conflicting information.
Blueberries. Blueberries are allowed on the candida diet. They are very low in sugar and are chock-full of antioxidants. Once you are past the very initial stage of the candida diet, where you body is detoxing, you can consume up to two cups of blueberries per day. The candida diet is also known as the yeast infection diet. It eliminates food that the yeast thrives upon. The goal of the candida diet is to essentially starve the yeast to death. The candida diet is quite restrictive as you must avoid foods that contain sugar or yeast. While a lot of fruit should be avoided, berries are allowed in the candida diet
Because candida typically thrives on sugar, many of the high sugar fruits are discouraged while on a candida diet, reports Disabled World. In fact, if you are on a candida cleanse for active candidiasis, it's best to avoid fruits entirely, due to their natural fructose content. Blueberries. Blueberries, which boast the health benefit of being rich in antioxidants, also are among the low-sugar berries you can enjoy on a candida diet. According to the Greatest Herbs on Earth, you can have 2 cups of blueberries per day after the initial cleanse phase. Avoid sweetening the berries