The most obvious symptom of open pyometra is a discharge of pus from the vulva in a female that has recently been in heat. However, symptoms of closed pyometra are less obvious. Symptoms of both types include vomiting, loss of appetite, depression, and increased drinking and urinating. Pyometra is a result of hormonal and structural changes in the uterus lining. This can happen at any age, whether she has bred or not, and whether it is her 1st or 10th heat (although it becomes more common as the dog gets older).
1 Pyometra is a uterine disease that occurs most often in intact female dogs six years or older that have never been pregnant. 2  Pyometra is a hormonal abnormality with or without the presence of a secondary bacterial infection. Why Dogs with Pyometra Should Be Spayed. Since pyometra is most commonly seen in middle-aged or older intact female dogs who have never been bred, this actually IS a condition that can be prevented by spaying your dog, unlike breast cancer, which has historically been touted as the most important reason to spay dogs.
Pyometra is a serious infection that occurs in the uterus. It can be a very serious condition and therefore it is important that you know all of the symptoms of the infection. This will allow you to quickly recognize the problem and seek treatment without delay. 
Pyometra is a disease mainly of middle-aged female cats that have not been spayed. In the past, we thought pyometra was simply a uterine infection, but today, we know that it is a hormonal abnormality, and a secondary bacterial infection may or may not be present. Pyometra follows a heat cycle in which fertilization did not occur.
Pyometra is a bacterial infection of the uterus that mostly occurs in middle-aged or older unspayed female dogs, though it may also occur in cats or young dogs. It can result in the accumulation of infection in the bloodstream or abdominal cavity, which can rapidly lead to systemic infection, shock, and death. 
In its simplest terms, pyometra is an infection in the uterus. Pyometra is considered a serious and life threatening condition that must be treated quickly and aggressively. Pyometra is a secondary infection that occurs because of hormonal changes in the female's reproductive tract. Following estrus or heat, progesterone levels remain elevated for several weeks, stimulating the uterine lining to thicken in preparation for pregnancy.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Pyometra is a uterine disease that occurs most often in intact female dogs six years or older that have never been pregnant. 2  Pyometra is a hormonal abnormality with or without the presence of a secondary bacterial infection. Why Dogs with Pyometra Should Be Spayed. Since pyometra is most commonly seen in middle-aged or older intact female dogs who have never been bred, this actually IS a condition that can be prevented by spaying your dog, unlike breast cancer, which has historically been touted as the most important reason to spay dogs.
Pyometra is defined as an infection in the uterus. Pyometra is considered a serious and life threatening condition that must be treated quickly and aggressively. Pyometra is a secondary infection that occurs as a result of hormonal changes in the female's reproductive tract. During estrus (heat), white blood cells, which normally protect against infection, are inhibited from entering the uterus.
|. Email Article. Pyometra is a disease mainly of middle-aged female dogs that have not been spayed. In the past, we thought pyometra was simply a uterine infection, but today, we know that it is a hormonal abnormality, and a secondary bacterial infection may or may not be present. 
Pyometra is defined as an infection in the uterus. Pyometra is considered a serious and life threatening condition that must be treated quickly and aggressively. Pyometra is a secondary infection that occurs as a result of hormonal changes in the female's reproductive tract. During estrus (heat), white blood cells, which normally protect against infection, are inhibited from entering the uterus. Dogs with pyometra usually have a severe elevation of the white blood cell count and often have an elevation of globulins (a type of protein often associated with the immune system) in the blood. The specific gravity (concentration) of the urine is generally low due to the toxic effects of the bacteria on the kidneys.