With its origins in Uttar Pradesh, chaat has become immensely popular in the rest of South Asia. The word derives from Hindi cāṭ चाट (tasting, a delicacy), from cāṭnā चाटना (to lick), from Prakrit caṭṭei चट्टेइ (to devour with relish, eat noisily). There are common elements among these variants including dahi, or yogurt; chopped onions and coriander; Sev (small dried yellow salty noodles); and chaat masala, typically consisting of amchoor (dried mango powder), cumin, Kala Namak (rock salt), coriander, dried ginger, salt, black pepper, and red pepper.
papdi chaat recipe, how to make papdi chaat recipe | chaat recipes. By dassana amit on May 7th, 2014. papdi chaat recipe – i still remember having papdi chaat for the first time in a punjabi restaurant in mumbai (can’t remember the restaurant’s name). it was one of the best papdi chaat i had in mumbai. so lets begin step by step delhi papdi chaat recipe: 1. arrange the papdis in a shallow bowl or plate. 2. top the papdis with boiled potatoes and boiled chickpeas. 3. add generous amount of curd.
dahi papdi chaat recipe with step by step photos – one of the very popular chaat recipe from north india. dahi (curd/yogurt) and papdi (fried or baked puris) are important part of many mouth watering chaat recipes in india like papdi chaat, dahi sev batata puri, dahi aloo tikki and dahi vada.
Papdi (papri) Chaat is my kind of food and there are so many kinds of chaat. Chaat can be found on roadside food carts all over India. Chaat is basically different varieties of snacks served with tamarind or hari (cilantro) chutney or with hot spice mix. The definition of chaat literally is “to taste”. 
What’s chaat without papdi? Indeed, this crisp, disc-shaped savoury is a must-have on any chaat counter, because it adds an exciting crunch to many a chaat preparation including bhel puri, dahi papdi chaat, and so on.
Rolled out Papdi ~ Papdi. In the realm of chaat recipes, Papdi Chaat, is a favorite. The green and sweet chutney drizzled on a bed of papdi, lends a sweet, tangy and savory note, further fortified with beaten yogurt and finished with chopped onions, tomatoes, coriander leaves and sev, adding crunch to the hearty chaat. How to make Papdi Chaat. Take a wide serving plate. Place 4-5 papdis, layer each papdi with chopped or mashed boiled potato and boiled chickpeas. Next spoon green chutney and sweet tamarind chutney. Spoon sweetened curd/dahi. Sprinkle some chopped onion. Finally finish off with sev and coriander leaves.
Papri Chaat served with boiled potato, coriander chutney, tamarind chutney, yogurt and topped with sev. Papri chaat, paapri chaat or papdi chaat (Urdu: پاپڑی چاٹ ‎) is a north Indian and Pakistani fast food. Chaat, a Hindi word which literally means lick, is used to describe a range of snacks and fast food dishes; papri refers to crisp fried dough wafers made from refined white flour and oil
Today's recipe for Vegan Thursday, Papdi & Papdi Chaat Recipe. This is a simple & refreshing snack and one of my favorite chaat item. I have already posted a similar Papdi chaat with Papdis and freshly grated carrots and beets. This time i tried papdi at home and the result was not bad and not perfect. 
in papdi chaat, besides the papdis (fried flour crispies), a melt in the mouth fusion of boiled chickpeas, potatoes and pakoris (fried black gram fritters) and curd (yogurt) is added. so lets begin step by step delhi papdi chaat recipe: 1. arrange the papdis in a shallow bowl or plate. 2. top the papdis with boiled potatoes and boiled chickpeas. 3. add generous amount of curd.
In papri chaat, the papris are served with boiled potatoes, boiled chick peas, chilis, yogurt and tamarind chutney and topped with chaat masala and sev. Papri chaat, paapri chaat or papdi chaat (Urdu: پاپڑی چاٹ ‎) is a north Indian and Pakistani fast food.