Depending on the requirements of the employer, a Master’s degree in marine biology is typically sufficient for many applied research positions. To become a marine biologist who works in research and university teaching positions a PhD in marine biology is needed. Marine biologists must also complete continuing education throughout their careers in order to keep their skills current stay up to date with advancements in the field.
Marine Biology Education. When you are pursuing a career in marine biology or marine sciences, take some time to learn about the basic marine biologist education requirements. Marine biologists typically have at least a master's degree or a doctorate degree in the field. Their position is very research-intensive and a bachelor's degree isn't enough to fulfill the standard marine biology education requirements. Marine biology education programs prepare students to work in laboratories or in the field to collect marine samples. Students applying for marine biology positions need to fulfill the following marine biologist education requirements: 1  High school diploma or GED. 2  Bachelor's degree in biology or related sciences.
Bachelor's degree programs specifically in marine biology usually have required courses in general biology, cell biology, ecology and evolution. Elective courses allow students to concentrate on specific areas of interest. Step 3: Get a Ph.D. in Marine Biology. In order to conduct most independent research and teach at the postsecondary level in the field of marine biology, you must have a Ph.D. Doctoral programs require a certain number of credit hours after a bachelor's degree program is completed. Sometimes credits from a master's degree can count toward the requirements
To become a marine biologist, you will likely need at least a bachelor's degree, and possibly graduate work, such as a master's or Ph.D. degree. Since marine biology jobs are competitive, it will usually be easier to get a position if you have gained relevant experience during high school or college. 
Education Needed to Become a Marine Biologist. To gain an entry-level job in marine biology, you need to have a Bachelor of Science degree in marine biology or a related field such as biochemistry, biology, botany, ecology, microbiology or zoology. To become a marine biologist who works in research and university teaching positions a PhD in marine biology is needed. Marine biologists must also complete continuing education throughout their careers in order to keep their skills current stay up to date with advancements in the field.
Learn how to become a marine biologist. Research the education and career requirements, training information, and experience required for starting a career in marine biology. Step 3: Get a Ph.D. in Marine Biology. In order to conduct most independent research and teach at the postsecondary level in the field of marine biology, you must have a Ph.D. Doctoral programs require a certain number of credit hours after a bachelor's degree program is completed. Sometimes credits from a master's degree can count toward the requirements
Marine Biologist Education Requirements. A career in marine biology is one that can take you heights. Depending on how far you want to take yourself in the field of marine biology, you can determine the level of degrees you will need to master in school. The entry-level jobs in marine biology will require a Bachelor’s Degree, but to be able to conduct your own research you will need to obtain a Master’s Degree. Classes needed for a marine biologist would be chemistry, biology, zoology, physics, and mathematics. English is another class that one wouldn’t expect to have too much of for marine biology, but English is very important in writing out research papers!
You go to college to become a Marine Biologist. You take oceanography classes, basic Bio, etc. In order to be a professor you must hold a degree higher than that which you teach. For example if you hold a master's degree you would can be a professor for a bachelor's program level class. There is no license or certification to become a marine biologist; usually a BS and/or MS degree in biology, specializing in marine science or marine biology, wiht the a … ppropriate field experience, would suffice as credentials. There are several marine biology websites.