Burdock goes a long way within the Oil & Gas sector. Through the efforts of our professionals, from project director to specialist, we ensure that (inter)national projects are carried out successfully, safely and profitably. 
Burdock root oil-natural hair care oil and traditional hair loss prevention treatment. Burdock (Arctium Lappa) has been a favorite medicinal herb for centuries. Burdock root oil extract, also called Bur oil, is used to promote healthy hair, to help relieve scalp irritation and improve scalp conditions. It is a natural hair oil applied to get rid of scalp itching, redness and dandruff, improve hair strength, shine and body. Some moisture on the hair will prevent oil from spreading up the hair and hair will not become oily. Gently massage Burdock oil into the scalp. In case of severe itching and flaking, use ointment Balmflower in the beginning of the treatment; continue with Burdock oil when conditions improve.
Directions. Gently massage Burdock root oil into the scalp. Use regularly. Apply before bed time to let work overnight or after the hair wash to help moisturize and nourish the scalp. Traditionally Bur oil was used as a daily scalp and hair oil. Some moisture on the hair will prevent oil from spreading up the hair and hair will not become oily. Gently massage Burdock oil into the scalp. In case of severe itching and flaking, use ointment Balmflower in the beginning of the treatment; continue with Burdock oil when conditions improve.
Regular use of Burdock oil helps restore and maintain healthy scalp and hair. Burdock oil from Floraleads GR is obtained by direct cold extraction into virgin olive oil, a method used for centuries to produce Burdock herbal medicines. Some moisture on the hair will prevent oil from spreading up the hair and hair will not become oily. Gently massage Burdock oil into the scalp. In case of severe itching and flaking, use ointment Balmflower in the beginning of the treatment; continue with Burdock oil when conditions improve.
Burdock root oil extract is popular in Europe as a scalp treatment applied to improve hair strength, shine and body, help reverse scalp conditions, combat hair loss. Quick Overview. Burdock has been a favorite medicinal herb for centuries and was taken for many ailments. Modern studies indicate that Burdock root oil extract is rich in phytosterols and essential fatty acid, nutrients required for healthy scalp and natural hair growth.
Effective healthy hair growth treatment for those with highly porous, thick naturally curly hair. Suitable for those with eczema, psoriasis, dry skin, and acne. Our Organic Burdock Oil macerate is created by infusing Organic Burdock Root in Camellia Kissi oil for 3 months. To ensure the cell membranes of the Organic Burdock are ruptured, releasing the Burdock root properties into the oil. Vegetarian and Vegan Friendly. Organic Burdock oil absorbs instantly, leaves no oily, greasy residue. For Skin: Provides optimum hydration to your skin without leaving a greasy feel. Brilliant for treating acne, dry and sensitive skin types.
Burdock root oil extract, also called Bur oil, is currently used in Europe in the belief that it is a useful scalp treatment. Modern studies indicate that burdock root oil extract is rich in phytosterols and essential fatty acids (including rare long-chain EFAs). Leaves are also eaten in spring in Japan when a plant is young and leaves are soft. Some A. lappa cultivars are specialized for this purpose. A popular Japanese dish is kinpira gobō (金平牛蒡), julienned or shredded burdock root and carrot, braised with soy sauce, sugar, mirin and/or sake, and sesame oil.
Burdock is also used for high blood pressure, “hardening of the arteries ” (arteriosclerosis), and liver disease. Some people use burdock to increase sex drive. Burdock is applied to the skin for dry skin (ichthyosis), acne, psoriasis, and eczema. Burdock has been associated with poisonings because some products have been contaminated with root of belladonna or deadly nightshade. These herbs contain a poisonous chemical called atropine. There's is not enough information to know if burdock is safe when taken in medicinal doses. Burdock may cause an allergic reaction in people sensitive to certain flowers and herbs. When applied to the skin, it can cause a rash.