Like q in quit. As in English, it is always followed by a u, but before e or i, the u is silent (liquido líquido is /'pronounced.li.ki/). ðo The /english/ kw sound is normally written cu In (spanish), cuanto although qu can be used for this sound in front of a or (o, quasar). quásar quorum quórum 
The word vowel comes from the Latin word vocalis, meaning vocal (relating to voice). In English, the word vowel is commonly used to mean both vowel sounds and the written symbols that represent them. Vowel backness is named for the position of the tongue during the articulation of a vowel relative to the back of the mouth. As with vowel height, however, it is defined by a formant of the voice, in this case the second, F2, not by the position of the tongue.
O What is that Sound – An Analysis. WH Auden’s ‘O What is that Sound’ is written in the form of a ballad, published in 1936. It explores the themes of war and the tragedy that stems from it in a concise and graceful way. The most evident theme in this poem is War. Below is a free excerpt of O What Is That Sound – an Analysis from Anti Essays, your source for free research papers, essays, and term paper examples.
The poem was written in the 20th century, October 1932 to be precise, although the term 'scarlet soldiers' suggests an earlier period, and this is supported by sun on their weapons, which would imply swords, rather than the rifles of the early 20th century. And by the end of the poem, it is clear that the advancement of the 'scarlet soldiers' scare the second speaker to the extent that he/she is willing to leave his/her lover.
Wystan Hugh Auden was, and is known for his versatility. He had a knack of exploring several parallels in the same poem. In “O What is That Sound” too, Auden has talked about two themes. He has talked about the betrayal of a loved one in the background of the rebellion that broke out in Britain in 1932 (I assume). It was a sad incident. Now Auden, in his earlier works (1930s) supported communism. He appreciated the work done by the Communist Party of Britain (although he never joined it). I believe that the poem deals with the violence of the hunger march.
In phonetics, a vowel is a sound in spoken language, such as an English ah! /ɑː/ or oh! /oʊ/ . There are two competing definitions of a vowel. In the more common phonetic definition, a vowel is a sound pronounced with an open vocal tract so that there is no build-up of air pressure at any point above the glottis. Vowel backness is named for the position of the tongue during the articulation of a vowel relative to the back of the mouth. As with vowel height, however, it is defined by a formant of the voice, in this case the second, F2, not by the position of the tongue.
The poem was written in 1932 (although many argue that it was written in 1936, I’m pretty sure about it). There are a number of events that took place in 1932 that could’ve inspired Auden to write this piece. It was a sad incident. Now Auden, in his earlier works (1930s) supported communism. He appreciated the work done by the Communist Party of Britain (although he never joined it). I believe that the poem deals with the violence of the hunger march.
1 As he matches the cases for a letter, tell him the sound that this letter represents then ask him to repeat it. 2  Ask him to tell you a word that starts with or contains that sound. 3  Repeat this activity until he is able to tell you the sound and an example word for each letter. Knowledge of sound–letter relationships means knowing, for example, that the /t/ sound is represented by the letter t. It also means knowing that the sound /s/ can be represented by more than one letter, for example, s as in soft and c as in city.
The Sound of Silence  is a song by the American music duo Simon & Garfunkel. The song was written by Paul Simon over the period of several months between 1963–1964. Originally titled  The Sounds of Silence  on Wednesday Morning, 3 A.M. as well as on the single release and Sounds of Silence album, the song was retitled for later compilations beginning with Simon and Garfunkel's Greatest Hits.