Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Charlie and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Charlie and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Charlie has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Charlie are: 1  Germanic Meaning: Free man.
Charlie /char-lie/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used more commonly as boys' name Charlie) is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Charlie is free man. Pet form of Charlene and Charlotte, now used as an independent name. Kreatif forms: Chalie. [ more ]. Charlie is a very prominent first name for females (#1193 out of 4276, Top 28%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#20854 out of 150436, Top 14%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Charlie for girls. Charlie reached its peak rank of #229 in the U.S. in the year 2014
The different meanings of the name Charlie are: The meaning of the name “Charlie” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. The meaning of Charlie has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Charlie are: 1  Germanic Meaning: Free man.
The name Charlie is very likely a(n) English variant of the name Charles. See other suggested English baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Charles. The name Charlie has the following meaning: One who is manly and strong/a free man. The English term churl meaning serf derives from the same root. Has been a household favourite ever since the era of the Emperor Charlemagne, and in fact a popular royal name in many European countries, including England.
Meaning of Charlie. German name. In German, the name Charlie means-nickname for charles/charlotte. Other origins for the name Charlie include-German, English, French.The name Charlie is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). German Name Meaning-nickname for charles/charlotte. Origin-Germany. Alternate Origins-English French
English Meaning: The name Charlie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Charlie is: From the Old English 'ceorl' meaning man. American Meaning: The name Charlie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Charlie is: From the Old English 'ceorl' meaning man. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Meaning of Charlie. English name. In English, the name Charlie means-Diminutive of Charles: From the Old English ceorl meaning man.. Other origins for the name Charlie include-English, German, French.The name Charlie is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Diminutive of Charles: From the Old English ceorl meaning man. Origin-English
Diminutive or feminine form of CHARLES. A famous bearer is Charlie Brown, the main character in the comic strip 'Peanuts' by Charles Schulz. 