The phrase 'aguanile' is Spanish. It's the combination of the words 'agua', which means 'water', with the river name 'Nile'. The equivalent in Latin is as follows: Nilus; or N … ilus Flumen. The word-by-word translation is the following: 'Nilus' means 'Nile [River]'; and 'flumen' means 'river'.
____ Aguanile is a Yoruba word (A language from Nigeria West Africa) In salsa it stems from the Afro-Cuban religion called Santeria. Santería you hear (it and other santeria) santería phrases a Lot in. cuban salsa
The phrase 'aguanile' is Spanish. It's the combination of the words 'agua', which means 'water', with the river name 'Nile'. The equivalent in Latin is as follows: Nilus; or Nilus Flumen. The word-by-word translation is the following: 'Nilus' means 'Nile [River]'; and 'flumen' means 'river'.
Confidence votes 108. The phrase 'aguanile' is Spanish. It's the combination of the words 'agua', which means 'water', with the river name 'Nile'. The equivalent in Latin is as follows: Nilus; or Nilus Flumen. The word-by-word translation is the following: 'Nilus' means 'Nile [River]'; and 'flumen' means 'river'.
Aguanile is a Yoruba word (A language from Nigeria West Africa). In salsa it stems from the Afro-Cuban religion called Santeria. Santería you hear (it and other santeria) santería phrases a Lot in. Cuban salsa most often you hear the Full phrase aguanile mai mai and it is part of the toque for (the) Saint. orisha oggun
Aguanile is a Yoruba word (A language from Nigeria West Africa). In salsa it stems from the Afro-Cuban religion called Santeria. Santería you hear (it and other santeria) santería phrases a Lot in. Cuban salsa most often you hear the Full phrase aguanile mai mai and it is part of the toque for (the) Saint. orisha oggun
Most often you hear the full phrase Aguanile mai mai and it is part of the toque for the saint (orisha) Oggun. The term Aguanile mai mai is praising the Yoruba orisha called Ogun. Ogun is the god of war and metal. He is the diety that works day and night without ever resting. He is the primordial black smith.
Answers. Best Answer: Generally, the vocable “Aguanile” (originally written AGGUANILE) is used in the Yoruba chants in honour of the Orisha Eleggua... but AGGUAN means cleaning and ILE means house, property, plot of land, espace... call it as you wish...