Very cold areas like Greenland and most of Canada and Russia are sparsely populated, as are desert areas like the Sahara (Algeria, Libya, etc.), Saudi Arabia, and Mongolia. An area is sparsely populated because it has an unfavorable climate and/or lacks the resources necessary to sustain a denser population. The Netherlands has a smaller population than Australia but a much higher population density, as the Netherlands is fairly small whilst Australia covers what some people argue is a small continent. Generally speaking, Western Europe is heavily populated while Saharan countries are sparsely populated.
If Antarctica is also excluded, then population density rises to over 50 people per km 2 (over 130 per sq. mile). However over half of the Earth's land mass consists of areas inhospitable to human habitation, such as deserts and high mountains, and population tends to cluster around seaports and fresh water sources. For humans, population density is the number of people per unit of area, usually quoted per square kilometer or square mile (which may include or exclude, for example, areas of water or glaciers). Commonly this may be calculated for a county, city, country, another territory, or the entire world
Best Answer: Sparsely populated means that there is very low overall population density, not necessarily that there is a low population (Australia, Canada, and Russia are all highly, but sparsely populated). The Netherlands has a smaller population than Australia but a much higher population density, as the Netherlands is fairly small whilst Australia covers what some people argue is a small continent. Generally speaking, Western Europe is heavily populated while Saharan countries are sparsely populated.
Best Answer: Population distribution means the pattern of where people live. World population distribution is uneven. Places which are sparsely populated contain few people. Places which are densely populated contain many people. Sparsely populated places tend to be difficult places to live. These are usually places with hostile environments e.g. Antarctica
If only the Earth's land area of 150 million km 2 (58 million sq. miles) is taken into account, then human population density increases to 47 per km 2 (120 per sq. mile). This includes all continental and island land area, including Antarctica. For humans, population density is the number of people per unit of area, usually quoted per square kilometer or square mile (which may include or exclude, for example, areas of water or glaciers). Commonly this may be calculated for a county, city, country, another territory, or the entire world
1 The most densely populated sovereign nation is Monaco, with a population density of 16,754 people/km 2. 2  Antarctica is a continent of 14,400,000 km 2 in area with territorial claims from multiple countries that are not included elsewhere in the above table. 1 Antarctica is a continent of 14,400,000 km 2 in area with territorial claims from multiple countries that are not included elsewhere in the above table. 2  With a population of roughly 1000, this results in a population density of ~0.00007 people per km 2 (much below Greenland's density of 0.026).
1 The most densely populated sovereign nation is Monaco, with a population density of 18,068 people/km 2. 2  Area includes land and water. 1 See also: List of regional organizations by population. 2 
Population Distribution Population distribution means the pattern of where people live. World population distribution is uneven. Places which are sparsely populated contain few people. Places which are densely populated contain many people. Sparsely populated places tend to be difficult places to live. These are usually places with hostile environments e.g. Antarctica. Places which are densely populated are habitable environments e.g. Europ
Population distribution means the pattern of where people live. World population distribution is uneven. Places which are sparsely populated contain few people. Places which are densely populated contain many people. Sparsely populated places tend to be difficult places to live. These are usually places with hostile environments e.g. Antarctica. Places which are densely populated are habitable environments e.g. Europe. Population Density. Population density is a measurement of the number of people in an area