High intensity blue light (425nm) used for the treatment of acne. Evidence for light therapy and lasers in acne vulgaris as of 2012 is not sufficient to recommend them. There is moderate evidence for the efficacy of blue and blue-red light therapies in treating mild acne, but most studies are low quality. The treatments involve exposing the skin to ultraviolet light. The exposures can be to small area of the skin or over the whole body surface like in a tanning bed. The most common treatment is with narrowband UVB (NB-UVB) of 311-313 nanometer. It was found that this is the safest treatment wavelength.
Several types of office-based medical procedures – such as light therapy and chemical peels – may be helpful. Regardless of which acne treatments you use, try to keep your expectations realistic. Acne can't be cured, only controlled. You won't start seeing improvements from most treatments for four to eight weeks. Acne treatments: Medical procedures may help clear skin. Medical procedures, such as light therapy or chemical peels, may help clear stubborn acne. Learn more about these acne treatments. Acne treatments aren't one-size-fits-all.
1 When it comes to acne light therapy, more is not necessarily better. 2  Drying or burning the skin by holding the face too close to the lamp does not help. 3  The best way to use blue and red light therapy at home is for helping keep the skin clear between acne treatments. They are safe, but they are slow. And they don’t do all the work of acne skin care treatment. To make any acne light treatment system work, you also need a complete system of skin care, a collection of products such as you can find at Exposed Skin Care.
Light therapy does not zap zits like a laser, but it kills acne bacteria and shrinks oil-producing glands. Acne light therapy is the pain-free, low-cost way to get rid of blemishes on acne-prone skin. They are safe, but they are slow. And they don’t do all the work of acne skin care treatment. To make any acne light treatment system work, you also need a complete system of skin care, a collection of products such as you can find at Exposed Skin Care.
The redness and swelling that can occur with acne is caused by a type of bacteria that can be killed by exposing your skin to different types of light. Before the procedure, your doctor might apply a medication to your skin to make it more sensitive to light (photosensitizers). You'll probably need to visit your doctor for multiple treatments. Your treatments may use blue light, red light or a combination. Acne treatments: Medical procedures may help clear skin. Medical procedures, such as light therapy or chemical peels, may help clear stubborn acne. Learn more about these acne treatments. Acne treatments aren't one-size-fits-all.
The research was reported in the British Journal of Dermatology. Light therapy 'best for acne'. A blue and red light mixture seems to be most effective treatment for acne-reducing the number of spots by three-quarters, says research. Tuesday, 18 July, 2000, 02:51 GMT 03:51 UK. Acne can cause great distress to sufferers A blue and red light mixture seems to be most effective treatment for acne-reducing the number of spots by three-quarters, says research.
Cost of Blue Light Acne Treatment. The cost of blue light acne therapy ranges from $40 for a single treatment to about $1,000 to $1,500 for a full treatment package, including several weekly sessions. The number of treatments needed to reach optimal results may vary depending on the severity of your acne. Patients who receive blue light photodynamic therapy will also have the topical solution Levulan® applied to their skin for 15 to 60 minutes before light exposure. When Levulan® is used prior to blue light acne treatment, patients spend only eight to ten minutes under the light, and the results are often enhanced. Blue light photodynamic therapy sessions are typically spaced two weeks apart to allow the full effects of the treatment session to appear