1 Tightfitting diapers or clothing that rubs against the skin can lead to a rash. 2  Irritation from a new product. 3  Your baby's skin may react to baby wipes, a new brand of disposable diapers, or a detergent, bleach or fabric softener used to launder cloth diapers.
Causes may include: 1  Diaper rash (rash in the diaper area) is a skin irritation caused by long-term dampness and by urine and feces touching the skin. 2  Yeast diaper rash is caused by a type of yeast called candida, which also causes thrush in the mouth. 3  The rash looks different from a regular diaper rash.
Some parents like to use baby powder to reduce moisture in the diaper area. Cornstarch may actually worsen a yeast diaper rash. If you want to use powder, make sure it doesn’t have talcum. Pour the powder carefully into your hands, away from your baby’s face, and then gently pat her bottom.
A yeast diaper rash is a common rash that develops on the bums of babies and young toddlers. “It’s very normal in infants and toddlers,” says Natasha Burgert, MD, FAAP, pediatrician at Pediatrics Associates in Kansas City, Missouri.
1 This increases the likelihood of diaper rash. 2  Changes in your baby's diet can also increase the frequency of stools, which can lead to diaper rash. 3  If your baby is breast-fed, he or she may develop diaper rash in response to something the mother has eaten. 4  Sensitive skin.
Diaper rash can be traced to a number of sources, including: 1  Irritation from stool and urine. 2  Chafing or rubbing. 3  Irritation from a new product. 4  Bacterial or yeast (fungal) infection. 5  Introduction of new foods. 6  Sensitive skin. 7  Use of antibiotics. 8  Symptoms. 9  Preparing for your appointment.
The most common skin problem in infants is diaper rash. Diaper rash is an irritation of the skin caused by dampness, urine, or feces. Most babies who wear diapers will have some type of diaper rash. Other skin disorders can cause rashes.
Not right away. If you think your baby's rash may be a yeast infection, check in with his doctor for treatment suggestions. If the rash doesn't improve within three days of starting a medication, let your doctor know.
1 Yeast diaper rash is caused by a type of yeast called candida, which also causes thrush in the mouth. 2  The rash looks different from a regular diaper rash. 3  It is very red, and there are usually small red bumps on the outer edges of the rash. 4  This rash requires treatment with medicine.
1 Your baby’s skin also may be irritated by a certain brand of disposable diapers or baby wipes, or by detergents or fabric softeners used on cloth diapers. 2  Moisture that’s trapped in a soiled diaper is also a breeding ground for Candida albicans, a yeast that causes diaper rash.