Aboriginal Australians are legally defined as people who are members of the Aboriginal race of Australia (indigenous to the Australian continent —mainland Australia or to the island of Tasmania). These Aboriginal ancestors migrated into South Asia and then into Australia, where they stayed, with the result that, outside of Africa, the Aboriginal peoples have occupied the same territory continuously longer than any other human populations.
Confidence votes 37.0K. Aboriginal means, literally, from [ab] the beginning [origin]. It refers to the first people, or the first flora & fauna to exist in a given area. The Aboriginal peoples of Australia are a good example; they are the first people to occupy the continent of Australia, with continuous and probably un-mixed descent from very roughly 60,000 to 100,000 years ago. The Aborigines are believed to have originally come from Asia. DNA links them to regions of India, and they were believed to have passed through southeast Asia on their way to … Australia. They were not from the Pacific or Polynesian islands.
Recent findings indicate that Indigenous Australians are probably descendants of the first modern humans to migrate out of Africa to Asia, roughly 70,000 years ago, arriving in Australia around 50,000 years ago. Australian cinema has a long history and the ceremonies of Indigenous Australians were among the first subjects to be filmed in Australia – notably a film of Aboriginal dancers in Central Australia, shot by the anthropologist Baldwin Spencer in 1900.
When British convicts were sent to Australia in the 18th and 19th centuries, they found that the island nation was already populated, but no one could figure out where these people had come from. The land was so isolated that it seemed impossible that anyone could have traveled there in unsophisticated boats. DNA from the hair reveals that these ancient ancestors arrived in Australia around 50,000 years ago, and they somehow managed to keep the whole continent to themselves until the British convicts arrived many years later.
They are believed to be descendants of the first group of humans to migrate out of Africa about 60,000 years ago. Being the first humans to arrive in Australia about 50,000 years ago; the Aborigines discovered Australia. They were the first human inhabitants of Australia. Aboriginal Australians were nomadic hunter-gathers. They roamed from place to place hunting animals and gathering fruits, nuts, yams and insects which they ate. The Definition of Aborigine, Aborigines and Aboriginal. The word Aborigines is name given to the native Australians by Europeans. They are also referred to as Aboriginal Australians and Indigenous Australians. This is not the name they called themselves.
The word aboriginal has been in the English language since at least the 16th century, to mean, first or earliest known, indigenous. It comes from the Latin word aborigines, derived from ab (from) and origo (origin, beginning). The word was used in Australia to describe its indigenous peoples as early as 1789. Australian cinema has a long history and the ceremonies of Indigenous Australians were among the first subjects to be filmed in Australia – notably a film of Aboriginal dancers in Central Australia, shot by the anthropologist Baldwin Spencer in 1900.
The earliest Aborigine migration must have come from an ancestral homeland somewhere in northeast Africa, meaning they are direct descendants of the first modern humans to leave that continent, without any genetic mixture from other races. DNA from the hair reveals that these ancient ancestors arrived in Australia around 50,000 years ago, and they somehow managed to keep the whole continent to themselves until the British convicts arrived many years later.
Australia: The Land Where Time Began. A biography of the Australian continent. Aboriginal History of Australia. Aboriginal people have lived in Australia for at least 60,000 years, arriving by boat from south Asia by about that time. Very controversial dates from Jinmium in the Northern Territory place the early arrivals at the site by 116,000 +/- 12,000 years ago.