1 As we get older, the number of hours of sleep we need each night lessen. 2  The extreme ranges include newborns that sleep anywhere from 11 to 19 hours each 24 hours period, with 14 to 17 hours considered the average range, to adults over age 65 that sleep from 5 to 9 hours each night, with the average being 7 to 8 hours. 1 If you have a serious sleep debt, then you may have to deal with that before you can get the best results from this test. 2  If your sleep debt is not substantial, then proceed with the test. 3  After the first night of longer than average sleep, continue with the same bedtime, and avoid setting an alarm.
We get less deep sleep as we get older so can wake more easily after the first three to four hours of sleep. Other health issues may also have an impact on the amount and quality of sleep you get. For example, if you’re in pain from osteoarthritis. The amount of sleep we need changes as we get older, and it’s also a personal thing – some of us need more than others. As long as you’re feeling refreshed and alert the next day, you’re probably getting enough. Although there is no magic number of hours, here’s a general guide for how much sleep you need.
Whether you need seven, eight, or even nine hours of sleep a night may be up for debate, but the importance of getting adequate sleep is not debatable. Sleep loss increases the risk of high blood pressure, inflammation, weight gain, and diseases associated with these risk factors, such as diabetes and heart disease. 
As adults, how much sleep we need per night can vary from 6-10 hours, but most experts seem to recommend 7-8 hours per night. 1 Stage 5 - REM Sleep: REM sleep usually occurs in cycles during the last 5-6 hours of an 8-hour night’s sleep. 2  So how much sleep we get in this stage will depend on how much sleep we get for the night. 3  During REM sleep, eye movements increase, heart rate increases, and the normal body processes also increase
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. REM sleep usually occurs in cycles during the last 5-6 hours of an 8-hour night's sleep. So how much sleep we get in this stage will depend on how much sleep we get for the night. 
The first REM sleep period usually occurs about 70 to 90 minutes after we fall asleep. A complete sleep cycle takes 90 to 110 minutes on average. The first sleep cycles each night contain relatively short REM periods and long periods of deep sleep. The amount of sleep each person needs depends on many factors, including age. Infants generally require about 16 hours a day, while teenagers need about 9 hours on average. For most adults, 7 to 8 hours a night appears to be the best amount of sleep.
Here’s a surprise: a healthy dose of deep sleep is about 20% of overall sleep. That’s less than I thought. If this is the case, then even my worst night with 30% would be way above the norm. If we only had three phases, I needn’t worry. I have data from the past year. Last night I got 2 hrs 36 minutes of “deep sleep”, and my total sleep was over 8 hours. My data shows sleep that is completely interrupted-the largest band of deep sleep was 31 minutes, most are under 9 minutes. I am waiting for the sleep lab to call me to schedule
We don't necessarily always progress through the sleep stages in a linear fashion. If your sleep is normal, you may reach your first REM cycle 60 to 90 minutes after you fall asleep, having gone from stage 1 to 2 to Delta to REM. This Delta may last 10 to 15 minutes and this REM may be very short. 