In Harry Potter the number 7 is also present. There are 7 Weasleys, 7 horcruxs, Harry was born in the 7th month of the year, and there are 7 Harry Potter Books. I'm not really sure what the 7 is suppose to represent but it is important.
Archetypes in Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. Archetypes have been here as about as long as the stories about gods and heroes. Archetypes are themes that have been used for several thousand generations. They are what shape modern film and literature today.
The Snake is the universal symbol of evil. In Harry Potter this archetype holds true. Voldemort’s symbol is the snake and the symbol for Slytherine is also a snake. The students in the Slytherine House are all portrayed/really are, evil (example: Malfoy).
Sirius Black takes on the archetype of the mentor. He is to Harry, at least. Since Harry’s parents are absent, I think it’s quite inevitable that this archetype found its way into the story early on. Sirius is there for Harry whether it’s in the form of a letter or a face in the fire.
Archetypes. An archetype is a stereotypical example of a person or thing. The characters in The Sorcerer's Stone have very distinct personalities, their can easily be identified by the noticeable habits they entertain.
Archetype or Character Type – Wizards in Harry Potter. 19th November 2013 No Comment Movies, Writing Tips. I was having a conversation with a friend the other day about archetypes. I must admit, I am not a fan. To me an archetype is a job description: a wizard, trickster, mother, hero, outlaw, seductress, judge, or mystic simply do different kinds of work in a story. Let’s take the first job on the list, wizard.
The Harry Potter series has become a phenomenal success with children. Harry Potter books in print worldwide is in excess of 116 million, and they have been translated into 47 languages.
The ‘evil’ potential of the trickster is J. Boll Harry Potter’s Archetypal Journey (Heroism in the Harry Potter Series, Berndt/Steveker, eds., Ashgate 2011) 9 reduced to a talent for chaos and a ‘disregard for rules’ (CS, p.357), notably also ascribed to Harry.