Diffusion is the net movement of molecules or atoms from a region of high concentration to a region of low concentration. In the phenomenological approach, diffusion is the movement of a substance from a region of high concentration to a region of low concentration without bulk motion. According to Fick's laws, the diffusion flux is proportional to the negative gradient of concentrations.
Examples. A diffusion gradient is responsible for many everyday phenomena, such as the dispersal of a vapor in air, or the dissolving of salt in water. A drop of perfume, for example, quickly evaporates to create a high concentration of perfume molecules above the drop. The particles of a substance are in continuous, random motion in every direction, but there is a net flow of particles down the diffusion gradient or, in other words, from the area of higher concentration to the area of lower concentration.
Diffusion, also known as migration, is the scientific name for the intermingling, or mixing, of the atoms, molecules or ions of two different substances in contact with each other. The substances can be gases, liquids or solids, and diffusion is the result of random thermal motion of their particles. The particles of a substance are in continuous, random motion in every direction, but there is a net flow of particles down the diffusion gradient or, in other words, from the area of higher concentration to the area of lower concentration.
This is also referred to as the movement of a substance down a concentration gradient. A gradient is the change in the value of a quantity (e.g., concentration, pressure, temperature) with the change in another variable (usually distance). In the phenomenological approach, diffusion is the movement of a substance from a region of high concentration to a region of low concentration without bulk motion. According to Fick's laws, the diffusion flux is proportional to the negative gradient of concentrations.
A diffusion gradient, or concentration gradient, exists when an area of higher concentration is in contact with an area of lower concentration. When substances are in contact, particles may flow between them. The particles of a substance are in continuous, random motion in every direction, but there is a net flow of particles down the diffusion gradient or, in other words, from the area of higher concentration to the
2. the gradual difference in the concentration of solutes in a solution between two regions. In biology, a gradient results from an unequal distribution of ions across the cell membrane. When this happens, solutes move along a concentration gradient. This kind of movement is called diffusion. 
thats the concentration gradient facilitated diffusion moves against the concentration gradient which is from low concentration to high concentration hope that helps *edit The graduated difference in concentration of a solute per unit distance through a solution. http://www.answers.com/topic/ion-gradien... Report Abuse. Concentration gradient is the concentration of molecules between two regions. For example, when a drop of KMWO4 crystal was added to the water, the dye molecules move around and between the water molecules and eventually are spread evenly, even when not stirred.
In facilitated diffusion, the direction of transport is always down a concentration gradient from one side of the membrane where the substrate concentration is high to the other side of the membrane where the concentration is lower. Facilitated diffusion is a form of passive transport and, therefore, the direction of transport is always down a concentration gradient. The transport cycle can be described by the alternating access model.
Best Answer: Diffusion is: The passive movement of molecules or particles along a concentration gradient, or from regions of higher to regions of lower concentration. You could find the gradient by drawing a line from the area where there is the most of some molecule to the area where there the least. Report Abuse. Concentration gradient is the concentration of molecules between two regions. For example, when a drop of KMWO4 crystal was added to the water, the dye molecules move around and between the water molecules and eventually are spread evenly, even when not stirred.