Silver coins There was a three-penny bit (pronounced ‘thripenny’), a six-pence, a shilling, a florin (worth 2 shillings), a half-crown (worth 2 shillings and six pence) and a crown (worth 5 shillings). There were 12 pence to the shilling and twenty shillings made a pound, Gold coins There was the sovereign valued at a pound, and the half-sovereign. Notes After 1844 all bank notes were issued by the Bank of England, to the value of £5, £10, £20, £100, £200, £500 and £1,000. Guinea There was also a unit of currency known as the guinea, for which there was no coin or note (how very British!) and it was worth one pound and one shilling
Florins. Florin (two shilling, two bob bit): While there did exist a medieval gold florin, during Victoria’s reign it was silver and worth 24 pence. Parliament were debating the idea of monetary decimalization and in 1849 introduced a coin valued at one tenth of a pound to test public opinion. There were 12 pence in a shilling, 240 pence in a pound, which is the correct word to use when referring to pennies added together. When you are holding a handful of these coins, they are pennies, when they are put together or combined with other coins, the total or value becomes pence.
Pounds, shillings, and pence. The coinage used in Victorian Britain had been much the same for three hundred years and was based on a system which had existed for more than a millennium. It lasted until 1971 when the currency was finally decimalised and the pound was divided into 100 smaller units. 
Confidence votes 141. There were 12 pennies in one shilling and a florin was a two shilling piece. So, a florin was worth 24 pennies. This is not to be confused with the later 'New Penny' introduced with decimalization in 1971. A florin is equal to £0.10, or 10 New Pence.
In 1817, coins were minted in gold and silver. A gold coin was worth 1 and was also called a sovereign; the half sovereign was ten shillings and also gold. The crown was a silver coin worth 5s, a half-crown 2/6 or 1/8 of a pound. Banknotes (paper money). Paper money was first issued by the Bank of London in the 1690s, but was not accepted for use by many and being hand-signed did not encourage confidence in this form of currency.
Money in Victorian England. The money system used in Victorian England had existed for several hundred years. It wasn't until 1971 that the currency was divided into 100 smaller units and decimalized being divided in precise divisions of halves, quarters, fifths, tenths, twentieths, twenty-fifths, and fiftieths. Banknotes (paper money). Paper money was first issued by the Bank of London in the 1690s, but was not accepted for use by many and being hand-signed did not encourage confidence in this form of currency.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The British two shilling coin, also known as the florin or two bob bit, was issued from 1849 until 1967. It was worth one tenth of a pound, or twenty-four old pence. It should not be confused with the medieval gold florin, which was nominally worth six shillings
Double florins. Double florin: This coin appeared in 1887 with the new Jubilee coinage series, and was supposed to encourage the decimalization of the currency. A large silver coin (36 mm in diameter), it was worth one fifth of a pound, or 48 pence. There were 12 pence in a shilling, 240 pence in a pound, which is the correct word to use when referring to pennies added together. When you are holding a handful of these coins, they are pennies, when they are put together or combined with other coins, the total or value becomes pence.