Meaning: The brown awareness ribbon is an anti-tobacco symbol as well as a symbol of colon cancer (alternative ribbon color: blue), and colorectal cancer (alternative ribbon color: blue). Meaning: The gray awareness ribbon is a symbol of diabetes, asthma, and brain cancer. Meaning: Meaning: The light yellow awareness ribbon is a symbol of spina bifida. Meaning: Most commonly associated with the fight against AIDS and HIV, the red awareness ribbon is also a symbol for heart disease, stroke, substance abuse, MADD, DARE, Epidermolysis Bullosa, and Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy.
Pregnancy and Infant Loss is not just something that happens to 'somebody else'. It happens to your sister, your friend, your coworker, the girl who checks out your groceries. It affects many families every day. Everyone knows the yellow ribbon stands for 'Support our Troops'. Pink is for breast cancer, red for AIDS. It is my goal that this pink and blue ribbon is as instantly recognizable a symbol. On May 8, 2002 I recieved the news no mother wants to hear. I am sorry, but this baby does not have a heartbeat.
Here is a handy list we maintain regularly of Cause Awareness Colors and the corresponding causes, cancer or meanings. Click on a ribbon to see all the causes represented by that color and all the items offered for each cause. 
Grey Ribbon: Meaning: This color is a symbol of diabetes, asthma, and brain cancer. Silver Ribbon: Meaning: This color is a symbol for children with disabilities, Parkinson's disease, and mental illnesses such as severe depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and anxiety disorders. Dark Blue Ribbon: Meaning: This color is a symbol of arthritis, child abuse prevention, victim's rights, free speech, water quality, and water safety. Light Blue Ribbon: Meaning: This color is a symbol of childhood cancer (alternative color: pink), prostate cancer, Trisomy 18, and scleroderma.
Meaning: The pink and blue awareness ribbon is a symbol for miscarriage, stillbirth, and infant death due to SIDS or other causes. Meaning: The purple and blue awareness ribbon is a symbol for pediatric strokes. Meaning: The prism awareness ribbon is a symbol for multiple sclerosis. Meaning: Meaning: The light yellow awareness ribbon is a symbol of spina bifida. Meaning: Most commonly associated with the fight against AIDS and HIV, the red awareness ribbon is also a symbol for heart disease, stroke, substance abuse, MADD, DARE, Epidermolysis Bullosa, and Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy.
Awareness Ribbon Colors. Find awareness ribbon color meanings to guide you in showing support for your favorite cause in a unique way-wear a ribbon badge reel to work, carry a support ribbon keychain or metal wallet, engrave a keepsake ornament of someone you loved and lost. 
Pink and Blue Ribbon: Meaning: This style of ribbon is a symbol for miscarriage, stillbirth, and infant death due to SIDS or other causes. Flag Ribbon: Meaning: This style of ribbon is a symbol for both the victims and heros of the 9/11 attacks. It is also a symbol of patriotism and support of our troops. Dark Blue Ribbon: Meaning: This color is a symbol of arthritis, child abuse prevention, victim's rights, free speech, water quality, and water safety. Light Blue Ribbon: Meaning: This color is a symbol of childhood cancer (alternative color: pink), prostate cancer, Trisomy 18, and scleroderma.
Meaning: Most commonly associated with breast cancer awareness, the pink awareness ribbon is also a symbol for birth parents, and childhood cancer awareness (alternative color: light blue). We also now have a CafePress.com store offering pink ribbon clothing and pink ribbon items for the home and office. Meaning: Meaning: The light yellow awareness ribbon is a symbol of spina bifida. Meaning: Most commonly associated with the fight against AIDS and HIV, the red awareness ribbon is also a symbol for heart disease, stroke, substance abuse, MADD, DARE, Epidermolysis Bullosa, and Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy.
Burgundy Ribbon: Meaning: This color is a symbol of brain aneurysm, Cesarean section (worn upside down), headaches, hemangioma, vascular malformation, hospice care, multiple myeloma, William's syndrome, Thrombophilia, Antiphospholid Antibody Syndrome, and adults with disabilities. Dark Blue Ribbon: Meaning: This color is a symbol of arthritis, child abuse prevention, victim's rights, free speech, water quality, and water safety. Light Blue Ribbon: Meaning: This color is a symbol of childhood cancer (alternative color: pink), prostate cancer, Trisomy 18, and scleroderma.