People are different. Plain and simple. Psychographic segmentation is dividing the buyers in the market into groups based on social class, lifestyle, or personality characteristics. The example that I found demonstrates psychographic segmentation and more precisely,
Psychographics is a marketing demographic method used to analyze market segmentation. (The population demography of a specific market) It relates to the lifestyles, attitudes, beliefs, buying motivation, product usage requirements, and product perceptions.
Lesson Summary. Psychographic segmentation involves dividing your market into segments based upon different personality traits, values, attitudes, interests, and lifestyles of consumers. This segmentation is advantageous because it allows you to engage in product design and marketing in a focused manner.
Plain and simple. Psychographic segmentation is dividing the buyers in the market into groups based on social class, lifestyle, or personality characteristics. The example that I found demonstrates psychographic segmentation and more precisely,
Psychographics. Psychographics or lifestyle segmentation has become increasingly common as companies look to identify consumers based on interests and activities in lieu of demographics. As an example of this strategy's benefits, consider the lifestyle of an outdoor adventurer.
Psychographic segmentation divides the market into groups based on social class, lifestyle and personality characteristics. It is based on the assumption that the types of products and brands an individual purchases will reflect that persons characteristics and patterns of living.
Segmentation is used mainly to target a certain group from within a population. Psychographic segmentation is one which uses peoples lifestyle, their activities, interests as well as opinions to define a market segment.
Psychographic segmentation Psychographic segmentation divides the market into groups based on social class, lifestyle, interests, consumer personality traits, values and attitudes.
Psychographic segmentation is dividing your market based upon consumer personality traits, values, attitudes, interests, and lifestyles. Segmentation will allow you to better develop and market your products because there will be a more precise match between the product and each segment's needs and wants.