Semiconductor Fabrication: Photolithography. Photolithography, literally meaning light-stone-writing in Greek, is the process by which patterns on a semiconductor material can be defined using light. It is the means by which the small-scale features of integrated circuits are created. 
Definition of PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY. 1. : lithography in which photographically prepared plates are used. 2. 
For the same process applied to metal, see Photochemical machining. Photolithography, also termed optical lithography or UV lithography, is a process used in microfabrication to pattern parts of a thin film or the bulk of a substrate. It uses light to transfer a geometric pattern from a photomask to a light-sensitive chemical  photoresist , or simply resist, on the substrate. 
photolithography. A lithographic technique used to transfer the design of circuit paths onto printed circuit boards as well as the circuit paths and electronic elements of a chip onto a wafer's surface. A photomask is created with the design for each layer of the board or wafer (chip). 
The 3000th install Co an XLA 300 argon fluoride (ArF) excimer laser light source, designed to enable volume production of 45nm immersion. applications Co was installed at a major Japanese memory chip manufacturer. 
It can only be used to produce flat surfaces. Despite this, photolithography is the most popular technique used to make integrated circuits. How Photolithography Works. Photolithography begins with a substrate that has been previously cleaned with water or a chemical and has been purged of all liquids and contaminants. The substrate is then coated with a light-sensitive chemical and exposed to a focused beam of ultraviolet light. 
Noun. 1. photolithography-a planographic printing process using plates made from a photographic image. lithography-a method of planographic printing from a metal or stone surface. Translations. [ˌfəʊtəʊlɪˈθɒgrəfɪ] N → fotolitografia fotolitografía. f 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: photolithography (Noun). A lithographic procedure in which printing plates are made using a photographic process. photolithography (Noun). An optical exposure process used in the manufacture of integrated circuits. 
Part of the Microprocessors glossary: Photolithography is the standard method of printed circuit board (PCB) and microprocessor fabrication. The process uses light to make the conductive paths of a PCB layer and the paths and electronic components in the silicon wafer of microprocessors. The photolithography process involves light exposure through a mask to project the image of a circuit, much like a negative image in standard photography. This process hardens a photo-resistive layer on the PCB or wafer. The hardened areas stay behind in the form of circuit paths of PCBs and CPU s.
• PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY (noun). The noun PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY has 1 sense: 1. a planographic printing process using plates made from a photographic image. Familiarity information: PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY used as a noun is very rare. 