BREAKING DOWN 'Stabilization Policy'. Stabilization policies are also used to help an economy recover from a specific economic crisis or shock, such as sovereign debt defaults or a stock market crash. Ongoing stabilization policy includes monitoring the business cycle and adjusting benchmark interest rates to control aggregate demand in the economy.
DEFINITION of 'Exchange Stabilization Fund-ESF'. Money available to the U.S. Treasury Department primarily used for participating in the foreign-exchange market in an attempt to maintain currency stability. It holds U.S. dollars, foreign currencies and special drawing rights. The ESF allows the U.S. government to intervene in the forex market to influence exchange rates, usually the domain of the central bank, without affecting the domestic money supply. This money is also used to provide financing to foreign countries.
Vol. 8 No. 1 Exchange Rate Stabilization 9 the eﬃcient level. However, if we consider nominal rigidities in alter-native sectors of the economy, as the empirical evidence suggests,then an intervention in the foreign exchange rate market could alsoinduce a misallocation of resources. Vol. 8 No. 1 Exchange Rate Stabilization 21 Figure 2. Eﬀects of Learning-by-Doingtradable to the non-tradable sector. At the same time, a higherdemand for tradable goods is satisﬁed with imports from the restof the world.
By Mike Moffatt. Definition: An exchange rate is the current market price for which one currency can be exchanged for another. If the U.S. exchange rate for the Canadian Dollar is $1.60, this means that 1 American Dollar can be exchanged for 1.6 Canadian dollars. Terms related to Exchange Rates: 1  Short Rate. 2  Bill of Exchange. 
Slide 17-65 Summary ! A central bank can fix the exchange rate of its currency against foreign currency if it trades unlimited amounts of domestic money against foreign assets at that rate. ! A commitment to fix the exchange rate forces the central bank to sacrifice its ability to use monetary policy for stabilization. 
The Facts. Exchange rates are the rates at which the currency of one country can be exchanged for the currency of another. Suppose the exchange rate between dollars and Euros was 2 Euros per dollar (always state exchange rates with the foreign currency as a multiple of the dollar). If you walked into an American bank and handed over $15, you would receive 30 Euros. Now suppose that the exchange rate changed to 3 Euros per dollar. Definition of Exchange Rate Stability. Exchange rates express the value of one country's currency in relation to the value of another country's...
The Exchange Stabilization Fund (ESF) is an emergency reserve fund of the United States Treasury Department, normally used for foreign exchange intervention. The U.S. Exchange Stabilization Fund was established at the Treasury Department by a provision in the Gold Reserve Act of January 31, 1934. 31 U.S.C. § 5117. It was intended as a response to Britain's Exchange Equalisation Account