Crustaceans (Crustacea) are arthropods. At least one form of crustacean is known as a bug.. The woodlouse, more commonly known as the pill bug or rollie pollie is a crustacean. Insects are more closely related to crustaceans than they are to any other arthropods. Roaches are insects, not crustaceans. Crustaceans are mostly aquatic animals, although some (like the sow bug) do live in damp land environments. Roaches do not need an aquati … c or damp environment and they flourish in dry areas including deserts.
Along with arachnids, crustaceans and insects belong to the same group---arthropods. Sharing distinctive physical characteristics, such as absence of backbone, hard exoskeletons, jointed legs and segmented bodies, arthropods are easily distinguished from other animal groups. While some species, such as coconut crabs, sand hoppers, woodlice and pill bugs dwell on land, crustaceans are generally found in water --- and usually oceanic --- regions. Adapting to their habitat, many insect species evolved wings --- two pairs for most and one pair for others.
Page 1 – Crustaceans – bugs of the sea. Crabs and crayfish are crustaceans, a subdivision of arthropods – the large group of animals without backbones (invertebrates) that includes insects, spiders, mites, scorpions and springtails. Arthropods have jointed legs and a hard outer shell that acts as a skeleton
Crabs and crayfish are crustaceans, a subdivision of arthropods-the large group of animals without backbones (invertebrates) that includes insects, spiders, mites, scorpions … and springtails. Arthropods have jointed legs and a hard outer shell that acts as a skeleton. 10 people found this useful. Roaches are insects, not crustaceans. Crustaceans are mostly aquatic animals, although some (like the sow bug) do live in damp land environments. Roaches do not need an aquati … c or damp environment and they flourish in dry areas including deserts.
Arachnids, crustaceans and insects are three different types of animals within the animal kingdom. Arachnids include species like spiders, ticks, mites and scorpions. Crustaceans include species like barnacle, crayfish, crabs, lobster and shrimp. Insects include species like ants, bees, butterflies, grasshoppers, mosquitoes and wasps. The defining characteristics of these three different types of animals are described below. 1  Body structure: Crustaceans have no skeleton
Crustacea. Crustaceans are arthropods, related to insects and myriapods. They are the most diverse animal group in underwater habitats. Only a few crustacean groups have evolved the ability to live on land, and like amphibians, these terrestrial crustaceans still need water or damp places to live. 
Now the fact that some crustaceans, like the Xenocarida, are more closely related to insects than to other crustaceans means that the group “Crustacea” is paraphyletic, since, by not including insects, it doesn’t include all descendants of the common ancestor. In the same sense that birds are dinosaurs, then, insects are crustaceans. 2. The sister group of insects within crustaceans comprises two rather obscure taxa that were long thought to be primitive: the cephalocarids and the remipedes.
1. Insects (“Hexapoda”) are not a sister group of crustaceans, as was indicated by some molecular studies. Nor are they the sister group of myriapods, the traditional arrangement supported by morphology. Instead, insects are nested within crustaceans (see Figure 1). In the same sense that birds are dinosaurs, then, insects are crustaceans. 2. The sister group of insects within crustaceans comprises two rather obscure taxa that were long thought to be primitive: the cephalocarids and the remipedes.
This phylum includes insects like butterflies and beetles, crustaceans like crabs and lobsters, and chelicerates like spiders and scorpions. Arthropods are found in all parts of the world in a wide variety of environments, from the deep sea to the frozen arctic regions. 