Peer support services are part of the array of services necessary for a culturally competent, recovery-based mental health and substance abuse system. Peer support services are equal partners with more traditional clinical services and may extend services to underserved populations.
1 Consumer-run services-mental health consumers plan, deliver, and assess services. 2  These include peer support groups, case management, live-in treatment settings and work therapy, crisis and drop-in centers, warmlines, and getting government benefits.
The peer-led self-management intervention. This project took place in Wales and was led by the Mental Health Foundation. The overall aim was to develop, deliver and evaluate a coherent, testable intervention for self-management for people with a severe psychiatric diagnosis.
In this blog we take an example of a peer-led self management training programme for people with severe mental illness and review three related papers that report on: 1  The development and delivery of the programme. 2  An evaluation of its effect. 3  Its cost effectiveness.
3 Together / NSUN Service User Involvement in the delivery of mental health services | May 2014 Putting Patients First: The NHS England business plan for 2013/14–2015/16 states: High quality, clinically-led commissioning will be a mainstay of the new healthcare system.
In Crepaz-Keay and Cyhlarova 2012, the service user-led approach to developing the intervention is described. Twenty-four people who had used secondary mental health services took part in a 4 day residential workshop, facilitated by service user research and development experts.
Pathways was one of the first community-based mental health and wellness support providers in New Zealand to offer peer-led support services. Pathways continues to explore opportunities to increase peer-led services in all regions.
Good practice guidelines are needed to prevent the ‘professionalisation’ of peer support and preserve its grassroots, user-led ethos, says a new report published today by national mental health charity Together.
In 2008, Pathways opened Tupu Ake, the first mental health and wellness peer support service of its kind in New Zealand. Tupu Ake, a beautiful house in Papatoetoe, is a place for Manukau people to have time out when they are struggling with life at home. This may be an alternative to a hospital admission.
Mental Health America (MHA) believes that peer support is an essential element of successful communities that is integral to recovery from mental health and substance abuse conditions. MHA calls on states and communities to incorporate peer support into community-based mental health and substance use treatment services.