Anxiety is a feeling of unease, worry or fear. Everyone feels anxious at some point in their life, but for some people it can be an ongoing problem. A little bit of anxiety can be helpful; for example, feeling anxious before an exam might make you more alert and improve your performance. But too much anxiety could make you tired and unable to concentrate. When you’re feeling anxious or stressed, your body releases stress hormones, such as adrenaline and cortisol. These cause the physical symptoms of anxiety, such as an increased heart rate and increased sweating. Physical symptoms can include: 1  a pounding heartbeat. 2  breathing faster. 3  palpitations (an irregular heartbeat)
i think about what i do on most cases when i feel nervous, i cannot deduce a pattern. i just understand that i feel nervous whenever. it's starting to become bothersome because it keeps me from concentrating from what i do. like reading perhaps. shrinks are rarely sought for here in the philippines. i think about what i do on most cases when i feel nervous, i cannot deduce a pattern. i... show more thanks, i think anxiety is the better word. i don't smoke.
Write down your nervous thoughts. Instead of trying to banish nervous thoughts or feelings, take the time to feel them and then let them go. By writing down why you are nervous and how you are feeling, you can confront your nervousness rather than trying to ignore it altogether. Once you've written down your feelings, either throw the paper away as a symbolic gesture or keep it to consider it during the day.
Maybe you're nervous about your own safety. Maybe you're nervous about how others are going to see you socially. Maybe you're not even sure why you're nervous, but you can tell that you're nervous anyway. Those with anxiety often not only feel nervous-they have more worried thoughts as well. Anxiety changes thought patterns.
i do my normal daily routine, and then from nowhere, i feel very nervous. for no reason. it's starting to scare me. Update: thanks, i think anxiety is the better word. i don't smoke. i drink liqour very occassionally. and i haven't had coffee in the longest time. i;m not taking any medicine either. i'd say i fairly live a clean life. i think about what i do on most cases when i feel nervous, i cannot deduce a pattern. i... show more thanks, i think anxiety is the better word. i don't smoke.
Well if you think about it, happy and nervous are generally the same physical feeling (even though they are completely different emotions), they physical feeling is stuff like … , butterflies in your stomach ma-bye a little shakeing or feeling a fever. You don't, because you do have a reason. Anxiety Nervosa or anxiety neurosis is a very common and well-documented mental illness.
CURE Your Nervousness. When you start to feel nervous about silly things, or you're nervous all the time, or the nervousness becomes too overwhelming, you may have an anxiety disorder. Find out how to control it with my free 7 minute anxiety test. Start the test here. Maybe you're nervous about how others are going to see you socially. Maybe you're not even sure why you're nervous, but you can tell that you're nervous anyway. Those with anxiety often not only feel nervous-they have more worried thoughts as well. Anxiety changes thought patterns.
Well if you think about it, happy and nervous are generally the same physical feeling (even though they are completely different emotions), they physical feeling is stuff like … , butterflies in your stomach ma-bye a little shakeing or feeling a fever. Sometimes you will feel nervous because of reactants in your brain that then set off your nervous system. The nervous system helps you infact, if it wasn't for your nervous system you could be dead!
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Sometimes you will feel nervous because of reactants in your brain that then set off your nervous system. The nervous system helps you infact, if it wasn't for your nervous system you could be dead! The nervous system reacts off of your brain saying that something isn't right and that something should be don