However, ‘clean energy’ is actually a rather nebulous term, since there is no agreed-upon, standard definition of it. To some, clean energy also means nuclear energy. To others, it may mean natural gas. And it can even include so-called ‘clean coal’ (if you let it). Nonetheless, despite its malleable nature, ‘clean energy’ is becoming an increasingly popular term. Indeed, I think I use it more than ‘renewable energy’ now (and, as I said, to discuss the same energy sources or technologies). So, I will briefly explain why I use it like this, and why I use it so much.
If you've invested in or followed natural gas fuel provider Clean Energy Fuels (NASDAQ:CLNE) for the past couple of years, you're aware that the stock is still well off its all-time high of around $22 from a couple of years ago. The reality is, I've followed Clean Energy Fuels -- and the larger natural gas-for-transportation segment -- for a couple of years now, and I think I know the company and industry about as well as anyone not working in it directly can. I also keep an open mind about my portfolio.
Redeem is a product from Clean Energy—the largest producer, marketer, and distributor of renewable natural gas, or biomethane, as a vehicle fuel in North America. Redeem is produced from renewable natural gas production facilities owned and operated by Clean Energy. Biomethane is also procured from third party producers and distributed as Redeem to Clean Energy customers.
Clean Energy. ‘Clean energy’ may have a specific definition in your mind — you may think it’s synonymous with ‘renewable energy’ (i.e. wind energy, solar energy, hydro energy, and geothermal energy). This is, generally, how I use the term. Nonetheless, despite its malleable nature, ‘clean energy’ is becoming an increasingly popular term. Indeed, I think I use it more than ‘renewable energy’ now (and, as I said, to discuss the same energy sources or technologies). So, I will briefly explain why I use it like this, and why I use it so much.
About. Clean Energy is the largest provider of natural gas fuel for transportation in North America, fueling over 30,000 vehicles each day at over 350 fueling stations throughout the United States and Canada. Redeem is produced from renewable natural gas production facilities owned and operated by Clean Energy. Biomethane is also procured from third party producers and distributed as Redeem to Clean Energy customers.
Within the emerging economies, Brazil comes second to China in terms of clean energy investments. Supported by strong energy policies, Brazil has one of the world’s highest biomass and small-hydro power capacities and is poised for significant growth in wind energy investment. Sustainable energy is the form of energy obtained from non-exhaustible resources, such that the provision of this form of energy serves the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
India is another rising clean energy leader. While India ranked the 10th in private clean energy investments among G-20 members in 2009, over the next 10 years it is expected to rise to the third position, with annual clean energy investment under current policies forecast to grow by 369 percent between 2010 and 2020. Sustainable energy is the form of energy obtained from non-exhaustible resources, such that the provision of this form of energy serves the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
Clean Tech Now. America’s energy landscape is undergoing a dramatic transformation. According to a new Energy Department report, falling costs for four clean energy technologies -- land-based wind power, solar panels, electric cars and LED lighting -- have led to a surge in demand and deployment.