The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain and is composed of right and left hemispheres. It performs higher functions like interpreting touch, vision and hearing, as well as speech, reasoning, emotions, learning, and fine control of movement. The cerebellum is located under the cerebrum.
Retina The retina is the area at the back of the eye that receives the refined, visual message from the front of the eye, and it transmits that visual message to the brain using electrical signals.
When people see pictures of the brain it is usually the cerebrum that they notice. The cerebrum sits at the topmost part of the brain and is the source of intellectual activities. It holds your memories, allows you to plan, enables you to imagine and think. It allows you to recognize friends, read books, and play games.
In the front of the eye it is continuous with the cornea, which is clear to let light through. Uvea: The uvea is the middle layer of the eyeball. It is where most melanomas of the eye develop. The uvea has 3 main parts: 1  The iris is the colored part of the eye (most often blue or brown).
The brain is one of the largest and most complex organs in the human body. It is made up of more than 100 billion nerves that communicate in trillions of connections called synapses. The brain is made up of many specialized areas that work together: • The cortex is the outermost layer of brain cells.
Retina-the most active area of the eye where the rods and cones are found. These receptors pick up the bits and pieces of the visual signals and transport them to the optic nerve for transmission to the brain. Rods-light sensitive receptor cells mostly found in the peripheral part of the retina.
Light projects through the pupil and the lens to the back of the eye. The inside lining of the eye is covered by special light-sensing cells that are collectively called the retina. The retina converts light into electrical impulses. Behind the eye, the optic nerve carries these impulses to the brain. The macula is a small extra-sensitive area within the retina that gives central vision. It is located in the center of the retina and contains the fovea, a small depression or pit at the center of the macula that gives the clearest vision.