Is there a way to copy a page from one 2007 publisher document (with all the txt boxes, pictures and formatting) and add that page into another 2007 publisher document? Wow, what an entirely unsatisfying answer! Why doesn't publisher 2010 allow you to just copy an entire page or several pages or better yet, import the pages from another document the same way that you can import slides from one powerpoint to another.
Hi, What I usually do is to use control + a (which is select all) and then use the right mouse button to access copy and it will copy all of that page; then I can drop that into the other file. (This brings all of the text, formatting and images over to the new document). Posts: 2. Hi, What I usually do is to use control + a (which is select all) and then use the right mouse button to access copy and it will copy all of that page; then I can drop that into the other file. (This brings all of the text, formatting and images over to the new document). « Previous Thread | Next Thread ».
Save your publication as a Word document. Open the Publisher publication that you want to save as a Word document. On the File menu, click Save As. In the File name box, type a name for the Word document. Note To select the entire page, click a blank area on the publication, or click the scratch area, and then click Select All on the Edit menu. On the Edit menu, click Copy. Open the Word document. On the page where you want to paste the objects, right-click and then click Paste.
Best Answer: The easiest way is to select your Publisher page, press CTRL+ A, this will select everything on the page, then right click and select copy. Then on the other document put the cursor where you would like the page to be copied, right click and click paste. Source(s): UK_PC_Technician · 5 years ago. 
Copy a page or objects into Word. Select the Publisher objects that you want to copy. Note To select the entire page, click a blank area on the publication, or click the scratch area, and then click Select All on the Edit menu. On the Edit menu, click Copy. Open the Word document. On the page where you want to paste the objects, right-click and then click Paste.
Location: Colorado. Posts: 2. Hi, What I usually do is to use control + a (which is select all) and then use the right mouse button to access copy and it will copy all of that page; then I can drop that into the other file. (This brings all of the text, formatting and images over to the new document). « Previous Thread | Next Thread ».
Copy a page. Place your cursor in a publication where you want to copy a whole page. Click the Insert menu. Click Page.. Select Duplicate All Objects on Page.. Enter the page number that you want to copy. Open a Microsoft Publisher document. Select all the object on the page by pressing Ctrl+A.. This will select all the text boxes, images and graphics you have in the document. If your cursor is in a text box, however, Publisher will select all the text in one story. Right-click the object. Click Copy.. You also can use the Ctrl+C keyboard shortcut
Then go to a blank page, and add them back in from top to bottom. worked for me. Quote: Originally Posted by MichaelK. I sometimes want to copy a page with all items, headers, footers, logos, text, formatting, to insert into another document or use in a PowerPoint. presentation. I cannot seem to find a way to do this. 