Distemper in cats is called feline panleukopenia. Cat distemper is a highly contagious, sometimes fatal and viral disease. This disease occurs worldwide and with distemper in kittens happening because they are more susceptible due to their age and immature immune system.
Feline Panleukopenia Virus in Cats. Feline Panleukopenia virus (FPV), also commonly referred to as feline distemper, is a highly contagious and life-threatening viral disease in the cat population.
Symptoms of distemper (panleukopenia) often resemble those of parvo disease in dogs or canine distemper, which is why the disease is often called cat distemper. Some older cats do not show many symptoms, but younger, unvaccinated cats can become severely ill.
Feline distemper, also called panleukopenia, is a highly contagious viral disease easily spread among cats. Similar to the canine parvo virus, it attacks the cat’s bone marrow and lymph nodes as well as the nervous and digestive systems.
Distemper is a deadly disease usually affecting dogs and cats. Though both types are commonly confused as the same, Canine Distemper in dogs and Feline Distemper in cats are caused by different viruses. For Canine Distemper, the virus involved is paramyxovirus.
What are the symptoms of feline distemper? The symptoms of panleukopenia can be similar to those seen in dogs with parvo or canine distemper (fever, vomiting, diarrhea, and seizures), which is why the disease is sometimes called 'feline distemper.' Panleukopenia in young unvaccinated kittens is usually fatal.
The distemper virus is similar to canine parvovirus and causes a respiratory infection in felines that's followed by a gastrointestinal infection. The virus will replicate in the cat's respiratory system through the tissues in the lymph nodes. The virus can also affect a cat's central nervous system and eyes.
Feline distemper, also called panleukopenia, is a highly contagious virus that affects rapidly growing cells, such as those of the digestive system, the nervous system, the lymph tissue, and the bone marrow. It is very similar to the virus that causes parvo disease in dogs.