While I understand the need to make sure that products are safe for consumers to use, I am deeply concerned over this recent change in MAC Cosmetics policy on animal testing that I read about at the beauty blog Logical Harmony here: http://www.logicalharmony.net/mac-cosmetics-is-no-longer-cruelty-free. I am concerned about MAC starting to do animal testing because it is no longer necessary in this day and age. Additionally this issue affects the entire makeup community because MAC is a very popular brand with a lot of influence. Starting in 2013, the UK will have banned animal testing. Please rethink your new policy on animal testing and go back to being cruelty free. Now that your policy has you testing on animals ‘as required by law,’ I’m no longer proud to be a MAC fan. I’m no longer purchasing from MAC if animal testing is going to be part of what you stand for.
Testing cosmetics on animals is a type of animal testing used to test the safety and hypoallergenic properties of products for use by humans. Definition [edit]. Using animal testing in the development of cosmetics may involve testing either a finished product or the individual ingredients of a finished product on animals, often rabbits, but also mice, rats, and other animals.
Cosmetics Tests That Use Animals. Tests that use animals to assess the safety of cosmetics and personal care products—such as lipstick, mascara, shampoo, and cologne—are still extremely common in the United States. It's estimated that thousands of mice, guinea pigs, rats, and rabbits suffer and die in these tests every year in the U.S. alone.
Cruelty Free International is an organisation that works solely to end animal testing for cosmetic purposes. Michelle Thew, the Chief Executive of Cruelty Free International says that the EU cosmetics ban has been a huge victory for animals and we are already seeing a positive knock-on effect around the world. 
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. I recently printed the list from the Peta website and Mac, Aveda, Bobbi Brown, Mac, Mary Kay, Clinique, Coty, Cover Girl, Estee Lauder, Revlon, and Ultima II are on the list as companies that DO testing on animals. vilma · 1 year ago. Thumbs up. 
M.A.C has a longstanding policy to not test on animals, nor ask others to test on our behalf, except when required by law. “Except when required by law” is a phrase often used by brands who are selling their products in markets, such as China, that do require animal testing to sell there. With a parent company that supports animal testing, any profit MAC makes does then support animal cruelty. However, I’ve always found it best to support the animal friendly brands and let people make their own decisions about the parent companies.
This means that MAC, long known for being cruelty free, does test on animals. I emailed them back asking for clarification on what the terms for “required by law” are but have not received a reply. With a parent company that supports animal testing, any profit MAC makes does then support animal cruelty. However, I’ve always found it best to support the animal friendly brands and let people make their own decisions about the parent companies.
Urban Decay is a cruelty-free brand and is committed to ending animal testing. We do not test our products on animals, nor do we allow others to test on our behalf. Additionally, we require our suppliers to certify that the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are not tested on animals. 
Tashina from Logical Harmony broke the news that MAC has been removed from the PETA cruelty free list and has changed their official animal testing statement to this: M.A.C has a longstanding policy to not test on animals, nor ask others to test on our behalf, except when required by law. Please rethink your new policy on animal testing and go back to being cruelty free. Now that your policy has you testing on animals ‘as required by law,’ I’m no longer proud to be a MAC fan. I’m no longer purchasing from MAC if animal testing is going to be part of what you stand for.
Consumers and manufacturers sometimes ask about the use of animals for testing cosmetics. The following information addresses the legal requirement for cosmetic safety and FDA policy on developing alternative methods. FDA is responsible for assuring that cosmetics are safe and properly labeled. 