The allotropes of carbon. Three forms (or 'allotropes') of pure carbon are diamond, graphite and buckminster fullerene (or 'buckyballs'). In all three allotropes the carbon atoms are joined by strong covalent bonds but in such different arrangements that the properties of the allotropes are very different. Buckminster Fullerene. Structure of a buckminsterfullerene molecule-a large ball of 60 atoms. Buckminster Fullerene is one type of fullerene. Fullerenes are made from carbon atoms joined together to make balls, ‘cages’ or tubes of carbon. The molecules of Buckminster Fullerene are spherical and are also known as 'buckyballs' – formula C 60
A fullerene is a molecule of carbon in the form of a hollow sphere, ellipsoid, tube, and many other shapes. Spherical fullerenes are also called buckyballs, and they resemble the balls used in football (soccer). Cylindrical ones are called carbon nanotubes or buckytubes. The smallest fullerene is the dodecahedral C 20. There are no fullerenes with 22 vertices. The number of fullerenes C 2n grows with increasing n = 12, 13, 14, ..., roughly in proportion to n 9 (sequence A007894 in OEIS). For instance, there are 1812 non-isomorphic fullerenes C 60.
The first fullerene molecule to be discovered, and the family's namesake, buckminsterfullerene (C 60), was prepared in 1985 by Richard Smalley, Robert Curl, James Heath, Sean O'Brien, and Harold Kroto at Rice University. The name was a homage to Buckminster Fuller, whose geodesic domes it resembles. The smallest fullerene is the dodecahedral C 20. There are no fullerenes with 22 vertices. The number of fullerenes C 2n grows with increasing n = 12, 13, 14, ..., roughly in proportion to n 9 (sequence A007894 in OEIS). For instance, there are 1812 non-isomorphic fullerenes C 60.
Fullerenes are a form of carbon molecule that is neither graphite nor diamond. They consist of a spherical, ellipsoid, or cylindrical arrangement of dozens of carbon atoms. 
Structure of a buckminsterfullerene molecule-a large ball of 60 atoms. The fullerenes fullerene: Molecules made up entirely of carbon in the shape of a sphere or tube. are a large class of allotropes of carbon and are made of balls, ‘cages’ or tubes of carbon atoms. Buckminster fullerene is one type of fullerene. Its molecules have 60 carbon atoms arranged in a hollow sphere. 
It was first generated in 1985 by Harold Kroto, James R. Heath, Sean O'Brien, Robert Curl, and Richard Smalley at Rice University. Kroto, Curl and Smalley were awarded the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their roles in the discovery of buckminsterfullerene and the related class of molecules, the fullerenes. 
About Fullerene C60. Buckminsterfullerene, also known as fullerene C 60, is a sphere-like molecule made entirely of carbon atoms. Fullerene C 60 is composed of 60 carbon atoms arranged in hexagon formations that combine to form a hollow spherical structure, giving it the nickname “buckyball”. 
A fullerene is a pure carbon molecule composed of at least 60 atom s of carbon. Because a fullerene takes a shape similar to a soccer ball or a geodesic dome, it is sometimes referred to as a buckyball after the inventor of the geodesic dome, Buckminster Fuller, for whom the fullerene is more formally named. 
Fullerenes are molecules composed entirely of carbon that were discovered in 1985 at Rice University. This paper explores the molecular structure of these molecules and different synthesis methods used nowadays. Many of the practical applications of Fullerenes follow directly from their extraordinary properties. 4.2 Hydrogen Gas Storage Due to its unique molecular structure, fullerene is the only form of carbon, which potentially can be chemically hydrogenated and de-hydrogenated reversibly [7]. When fullerenes are hydrogenated, the C=C double bonds become C--H bonds.