The refrigerant is pushed through the expansion valve, and the temperature of the refrigerant drops -- a lot. So, that cold outdoor air is actually the warmer object then, when it comes in contact with the outdoor coil of your heat pump. And, as we know, heat likes to move from warmer objects to cooler objects. Once we get that heat from the air into the refrigerant, it's just a matter of bringing it into the house and then transferring it into your home's air. So now the mystery is solved! It's our old friend, the Second Law of Thermodynamics again. Dog photo by Tobyotter from flickr.com, used under Creative Commons license.
Basically, the air in your home moves over the cold evaporator coil that’s inside your home, which absorbs the heat from the air with refrigerant (a heat transfer fluid). The refrigerant in that coil then flows to the warm condenser coil. But we’ll try to simplify it. Your air conditioner has three main mechanical components to cool your home: 1  a compressor (a pump that pressurizes the refrigerant). 2  an evaporator coil (inside cold coil). 3  a condenser coil (outside warm coil).
The most common central cooling system is a split system, which includes an outdoor cabinet containing a condenser coil and compressor, and an indoor evaporator coil, usually installed in conjunction with your furnace or air handler. Once warm air inside your home blows across the indoor evaporator coil, its heat energy transfers to the refrigerant inside the coil. That transfer, in turn, “cools” the air. The refrigerant is pumped back to the compressor where the cycle begins again.
As much as half of the energy used in your home goes to heating and cooling. So making smart decisions about your home's heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) system can have a big effect on your utility bills — and your comfort. Take these steps to increase the efficiency of your heating and cooling system.
WHAT IT IS. A humidifier is a machine that can be added to any central heating and cooling system to monitor the humidity levels in a home and increase humidity when needed. 
What do HVAC technicians actually do to the furnace to tune it up? It depends. According to Chris Jirak, a heating guy who has worked for several firms in the Twin Cities over a period of 25 years, the service you get when you purchase a $29 Groupon is going to be quite different from a $200 tune-up. Of course... but the only homeowners I know who are knowledgeable enough to do all that stuff listed above also happen to be heating contractors. If the only thing your furnace tech does is stick a vacuum nozzle in to the furnace and suck a little dust out, sure, do it yourself.
Seal your heating and cooling ducts. Ducts that move air to-and-from a forced air furnace, central air conditioner, or heat pump are often big energy wasters. Sealing and insulating ducts can improve the efficiency of your heating and cooling system by as much as 20 percent — and sometimes much more. So making smart decisions about your home's heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) system can have a big effect on your utility bills — and your comfort. Take these steps to increase the efficiency of your heating and cooling system.
It really does happen, though, so to understand heat pump operation, let's start with the basics. I discussed heat flow, thermal energy, and temperature earlier this week, and in that article I said heat flows when you have a temperature difference (δT). Once we get that heat from the air into the refrigerant, it's just a matter of bringing it into the house and then transferring it into your home's air. So now the mystery is solved! It's our old friend, the Second Law of Thermodynamics again. Dog photo by Tobyotter from flickr.com, used under Creative Commons license.
Your air conditioner makes your home cooler. Well, while this is the eventual outcome, your air conditioner actually does much more than that. We’re going to talk about the four main functions of your air conditioner and how it performs those functions to cool your home. But we’ll try to simplify it. Your air conditioner has three main mechanical components to cool your home: 1  a compressor (a pump that pressurizes the refrigerant). 2  an evaporator coil (inside cold coil). 3  a condenser coil (outside warm coil).
In other words, if you have the thermostat set to 'heat' and the house doesn't warm up at all, then you use 'emergency heat.' Heat pumps cannot keep up with the heating load in most houses when the temperature gets below a certain point. They have built in supplemental heat to add to what the heat pump does. Once we get that heat from the air into the refrigerant, it's just a matter of bringing it into the house and then transferring it into your home's air. So now the mystery is solved! It's our old friend, the Second Law of Thermodynamics again. Dog photo by Tobyotter from flickr.com, used under Creative Commons license.