The connotations or added/implied bonsai tree meanings include: 1  A general tree-like shape or style (although not necessarily natural to that type of plant growing full-size in the wild). 2  A profile that is not as detailed as a photographically-real tree but has just enough features to easily suggest a full-grown tree. Bonsai are not genetically dwarfed plants, in fact, any tree species can be used to grow one. Techniques such as pinching buds, pruning and wiring branches, and carefully restricting but not abandoning fertilizers are used to limit and redirect healthy growth.
Bonsai (盆栽) (lit. tray cultivation) is the art of growing trees, or woody plants shaped as trees, in containers. Bonsai is sometimes confused with dwarfing, but dwarfing more accurately refers to researching and creating cultivars of plant material that are permanent, genetic miniatures of existing species. 
• BONSAI (noun). The noun BONSAI has 1 sense: 1. a dwarfed ornamental tree or shrub grown in a tray or shallow pot. Familiarity information: BONSAI used as a noun is very rare. 
Meaning of Bonsai. Bonsai refers to any tree or shrub that has been miniaturized by careful pruning and tying of branches. Bonsai is not a species of tree but an art form that reflects the connectedness of life and a respect for the beauty of nature. These tiny trees, displayed in ceramic containers their artists choose especially for them, mimic the mature trees found in nature. The shape of the bonsai is as meaningful as its size.
Bonsai (盆栽, lit. plantings in tray, from bon, a tray or low-sided pot and sai, a planting or plantings, pronunciation (help·info)) is a Japanese art form using miniature trees grown in containers. When the candidate bonsai nears its planned final size it is planted in a display pot, usually one designed for bonsai display in one of a few accepted shapes and proportions. From that point forward, its growth is restricted by the pot environment.
The ancient Asian art form known as bonsai -- the creation of miniaturized trees -- is commonly thought to be a Japanese cultural phenomenon. Bonsai is not a species of tree but an art form that reflects the connectedness of life and a respect for the beauty of nature. These tiny trees, displayed in ceramic containers their artists choose especially for them, mimic the mature trees found in nature. The shape of the bonsai is as meaningful as its size.
Bonsai is a Japanese pronunciation of the earlier Chinese term penzai. A bon is a tray-like pot typically used in bonsai culture. The word bonsai is often used in English as an umbrella term for all miniature trees in containers or pots. This article focuses on bonsai as defined in the Japanese tradition. When the candidate bonsai nears its planned final size it is planted in a display pot, usually one designed for bonsai display in one of a few accepted shapes and proportions. From that point forward, its growth is restricted by the pot environment.
Bonsai Symbolism. In the English language, the term bonsai is often used loosely to reference all miniature-scale trees. But bonsai refers specifically to a Japanese art form, ascended from the Chinese art of penjing, more than a thousand years ago. Bonsai, like other forms of art, uses the medium of symbolism to communicate ideas and emotions. The art of bonsai is robust with symbolism and meaning where everything means something. Each detail sends a subliminal message, contributing to the larger story encompassed within the ongoing creation. Container and accessory colors are carefully chosen to represent the hues found in nature.
Bonsai means 'Tree in a Pot'. An essential part of bonsai is that the plants are always planted in a pot of some type. There are many different forms of pot used for the purpose of growing bonsai trees. You will often see the term ‘tree in a pot’ used to describe bonsai. Bonsai is an ancient art form that originated in China and Japan and is primarily focused on producing beautiful miniaturized trees and plants. Bonsai is in fact a Japanese version of the original Chinese word ‘pun-sai’ that was applied to this oriental art form.
There are many topics of bonsai that it is necessary to research. Most people in the West merely want a nicely designed tree that is suitable for their climate and has certain leaf colors and flower or fruit specifications. But there is a bit more symbolism in Japanese bonsai. Many trees are used in bonsai, but each one is suitable for a different kind of style. If you try to train the wrong kind of tree into an unsuitable shape, you'll end up killing the tree or growing an unattractive specimen.