Getting ready to sell your home? Appearance is everything. That's where home staging comes in. But hiring a professional stager to prepare the home for prospective buyers can cost anywhere from $50 to $150 per hour, according to Jessica Page, a Realtor with Innovative Real Estate in Denver. Fortunately, homeowners can take matters into their own hands
To have a whole house staged, the cost can be anywhere from $2,500-$5,000. Staging costs start for 30 days, and then there's a daily cost involved for every day staging is needed outside the 30 days, typically. A very rough estimate would be $2,500. The cost varies with everything: staging company, real estate agent, number of rooms to stage, how busy the staging companies are, how long until the home is sold, what furniture is needed to create a great impression ....
1 A home that is completely empty can cost anywhere from $4,500 to as much as $8,000. 2  According to Saratoga.com, the cost of a stager can range anywhere from $200 for a basic consultation to as much as $7,000 for an unoccupied home. The cost to hire a professional for home staging will depend on your geographical location, the experience of the professional, the company performing the procedure, the size of the home and many other factors.
The costs associated with working with a professional home stager will vary widely and can begin as low as $150 for a consultation, and range well above $6000 for a massive undertaking. Stagers may charge by the hour, while others request a flat fee. MortgageNewsDaily.com indicates that most homes that are professionally stage will end up bringing in roughly 3% more than the anticipated price. This means that a homeowner who dedicates $3000 to a home staging project, and who sells their home for $500k, will have earned $15000 for their effort. Clearly, this indicates that such a project is well worth the expens
Consider this: The average professional home staging costs between three and five thousand dollars. Professionally staged homes sell in an average of 35 days (compared to 175 days for non-staged homes), according to StagedHomes.com. On average, a full soup-to-nuts home staging for an occupied house should cost between three and five thousand dollars. This will include incidental purchases (mirrors, accessories, bed and bath linen, and window treatments if and when absolutely necessary).
Criteria for Home Staging Cost. There is no set price for home staging services. The geographical location, size of the home, staging professional chosen, scope of the project, condition of the housing market and other factors will all contribute to the pricetag. It can be a complicated equation
Most professional home stagers are willing to do as much or as little of your home staging as you want. In the Saratoga and Albany areas, professional home stagers will do a consultation that should cost between $200 and $500, depending on the size of the home. On average, a full soup-to-nuts home staging for an occupied house should cost between three and five thousand dollars. This will include incidental purchases (mirrors, accessories, bed and bath linen, and window treatments if and when absolutely necessary).
I got a quote for staging our home for $1750 plus $750/month for rental furniture. Initial cost includes first months furniture rental, set-up, take down. They will be staging the living room, dining room, kitchen, master bed and bath. 
1 For a full-service staging service that will covers the entire home will normally cost anywhere from $3,000 to $6,500 for an occupied home. 2  This is going to greatly depend on the size of the home, but if your home is between 1,200 and 2,400 square feet, this should be a great estimate to use for planning. The cost to hire a professional for home staging will depend on your geographical location, the experience of the professional, the company performing the procedure, the size of the home and many other factors.