The body cavity of human body cavities normally refers to the ventral body cavity, because it is by far the largest one in area. Coelomate animals (also known as eucoelomates--true coelom) have a fluid filled body cavity called a coelom. Most bilateral animals, including all the vertebrates, are coelomates. Pseudocoelomate animals have a pseudocoel, (literally “false cavity”) which is a fully functional body cavity. Tissue derived from mesoderm only partly lines the fluid filled body cavity of these animals.
The advantage of having body cavities is that one's organs are protected by skin and bones and are shielded from direct impact and injury. The body cavity is to hold your organs. (liver, spleen, pancreas, stomach, intestines, etc. It also provides a route for your aorta to your lower extrimities.
Animals without it, such as flatworms, are called acoelomates. In between there are some animals called pseudocoelomates, which possess a false coelom, which is an unlined or partially lined body cavity between the gut and body wall. A coelom is defined as a cavity that separates the gut from the body wall. A coelom (pronounced seal-um) is a fluid-filled body cavity found in most animals. It is located in the mesoderm, the middle germ layer only found in triploblastic (three-layered) organisms.
There are several advantages to having a coelom, or body cavity.  The organs are enclosed, there is independent movement of the body  wall, there is more space for organs, a … nd there is a storage area  for sperm and eggs. It also has fluids that protect organs and  provide nutrients. Answered. In Ecosystems. 
1 Pseudocoelomate animals have a pseudocoelom (literally “false cavity”), which is a fully functional body cavity. 2  Tissue derived from mesoderm only partly lines the fluid filled body cavity of these animals. 1 Tissue derived from mesoderm only partly lines the fluid filled body cavity of these animals. 2  Thus, although organs are held in place loosely, they are not as well organized as in a coelomate. 3  All pseudocoelomates are protostomes; however, not all protostomes are pseudocoelomates.
Acoelomate. Pseudocoelomate. * An invertebrate having a body cavity that is pseudocoelomate. * Pseudocoelomate animals have a pseudocoel, (literally “false cavity”) which is a fully functional body cavity. Tissue derived from mesoderm only partly lines the fluid filled body cavity of these animals. although organs are held in place loosely, they are not as well organized as in a coelomate. 
Best Answer: Ok allright here it is: By the broadest definition, a body cavity is any fluid filled space in a multicellular organism. However, the term usually refers to the space, located between an animal’s outer covering (epidermis) and the outer lining of the gut cavity, where internal organs develop. Most bilateral animals, including all the vertebrates, are coelomates. Pseudocoelomate animals have a pseudocoel, (literally “false cavity”) which is a fully functional body cavity. Tissue derived from mesoderm only partly lines the fluid filled body cavity of these animals.
Arthropods and most mollusks have a reduced (but still true) coelom, usually the pericardial cavity and the gonocoel. Their principal body cavity is the hemocoel or haeomocoel of an open circulatory system, often derived from the blastocoel. The term usually refers to the space located between an animal ’s outer covering (epidermis), and the outer lining of the gut cavity, where internal organs develop. ‹The template Elucidate is being considered for deletion.›.
A body cavity is any fluid-filled space in a multicellular organism other than those of vessels (such as blood vessels and lymph vessels). The term usually refers to the space located between an animal ’s outer covering (epidermis), and the outer lining of the gut cavity, where internal organs develop. ‹The template Elucidate is being considered for deletion.›.