During pregnancy, the American Pregnancy Association recommends an additional 300 calories per day during the second and third trimesters. This calculator is just an estimate. If you are gaining weight too quickly, simply lower your calorie intake by 50-100 calories per day for one week at a time. If you are breastfeeding and also attempting to lose weight, and plateau at this calorie intake, simply lower your calories by 50-100 per day one week at a time until you begin to lose weight again. Read here for more detailed information on breastfeeding and weight loss.
It is important to eat well. Depending on how old your nursing child is, you may need an additional 650 calories a day if he is under six months, or about 500 if he is now eating other foods. This is on top of the additional 350 (second trimester) and 450 (third trimester) calories you need during pregnancy. Your milk is safe for your breastfeeding child. Although very small amounts of pregnancy hormones pass into your milk, they are not considered to be harmful. In a nutshell, if you're having a normal pregnancy and are healthy, then there is no physical or medical reason not to breastfeed when pregnant.
Whether you are pregnant or breastfeeding, NEVER slash calories by more than 50-100 per day, one week at a time! You could wipe out your energy levels, cause yourself to have uncontrollable cravings leading to binges, slow your metabolism, and diminish your milk supply. If you are breastfeeding and also attempting to lose weight, and plateau at this calorie intake, simply lower your calories by 50-100 per day one week at a time until you begin to lose weight again. Read here for more detailed information on breastfeeding and weight loss.
Breastfeeding Calorie Calculator. It is estimated that during the first several months of breastfeeding, your body will require an additional 500 calories per day to establish and keep up your milk supply. If your milk supply begins to diminish, try increasing this number by 50-100 calories per day. If you are breastfeeding and also attempting to lose weight, and plateau at this calorie intake, simply lower your calories by 50-100 per day one week at a time until you begin to lose weight again. Read here for more detailed information on breastfeeding and weight loss.
In general, most breastfeeding women need about 500 calories more per day than their non-breastfeeding counterparts. This typically adds up to between 2,000 and 2,500 calories per day for women who are trying to maintain their current weight. However, a woman who is breastfeeding should focus on her body's hunger cues, not on the specific number of calories she is consuming. The amount of calories a nursing mother needs depends on her own physiology, her level of exercise and whether her infant is breastfeeding exclusively or not. If you need help determining how much you should be eating while nursing your baby, talk to a doctor or dietician about your concerns.
Do breastfeeding mothers need extra fluids? The Institute of Medicine notes that the median amount of fluids typically consumed by breastfeeding mothers is 3.1 liters (13 cups), compared to 2.2 liters/9 cups for non-pregnant/lactating women and 2.3 liters/10 cups for pregnant women. If you really want (or need) to count calories…. Studies have shown that most healthy breastfeeding women maintain an abundant milk supply while taking in 1800-2200 (or more) calories per day.
Eating the right number of calories lets you and your baby gain the proper amount of weight. During the first 3 months of your pregnancy, you do not need to change the number of calories you are eating. Normal-weight women need an extra 300 calories each day during the last 6 months of pregnancy. This totals about 1,900 to 2,500 calories a day. If you were underweight, overweight, or obese before you became pregnant, or if you are pregnant with more than one baby, you may need a different number of calories
while the general rule of thumb says that breastfeeding mamas need about 500 calories per day over their usual pre pregnancy intake the truth is that there s no one size fits all answer to this question 
An exclusively breastfeeding mother, on average, needs to take in 300-500 calories per day above what was needed to maintain pre-pregnancy weight. If you really want (or need) to count calories…. Studies have shown that most healthy breastfeeding women maintain an abundant milk supply while taking in 1800-2200 (or more) calories per day.
Determine the amount of calories you should eat by using the number of calories you used to eat to maintain your weight prior to your pregnancy and then add an extra 100 calories to support your pregnancy. For most women, 2,300 to 2,500 calories a day is a good range to aim for during the first trimester. You will need an average of 300 extra calories a day to gain weight at a healthy pace while supplying enough energy to your growing baby. You can calculate your daily calorie need for these trimesters simply by adding an extra 200 calories a day compared to what you were eating