1 Water can dissolve salt because the positive part of water molecules attracts the negative chloride ions and the negative part of water molecules attracts the positive sodium ions. 2  The amount of a substance that can dissolve in a liquid (at a particular temperature) is called the solubility of the substance. 1 Salt (sodium chloride) is made from positive sodium ions bonded to negative chloride ions. 2 
CO2 is soluble because water molecules are attracted to these polar areas. The bond between carbon and oxygen is not as polar as the bond between hydrogen and oxygen, but it is polar enough that carbon dioxide can dissolve in water. Project the image CO2 Dissolved in Water. Explain that in carbonated water, molecules of carbon dioxide are thoroughly mixed and dissolved in water.
Gases are usually more soluble at colder temperatures. For example, oxygen is more soluble in cold water than in hot water. The decrease in oxygen solubility with increased temperature [ 1 ] has serious consequences for aquatic life. 
When you dissolve sugar or salt in a liquid-say, water-what happens is that the sugar molecules move to fit themselves between the molecules of water within a glass or beaker. The illustration below shows how the different molecules are arranged in the container. A solute, such as sugar, dissolved in a solvent, such as water, results in a liquid solution. In your experiment, you'll see how salt and sugar molecules move within different liquids and dissolve at different rates.
Most gases found in the air are non-polar and do not typically dissolve well in water, but even the small amounts that do dissolve are essential for life. If it were not for dissolved oxygen and carbon dioxide, the world's oceans, lakes and streams would be devoid of life. Polarity. Water molecules are all polar. This means one part of the molecule has a partial negative charge and the other has a partial positive charge. The negative part is attracted to positively charged ions or groups on other molecules and vice versa.
Marine organisms help mantain the chemical balance of ocean water by removing nutrients and gases from the ocean and a.returning other nutrients and gases to the water b.producing bacteria that destroy pollutants c. adding no new elements to the water d. introducing minerals and trace elements to the water. Follow. Marine organisms help mantain the chemical balance of ocean water by removing nutrients and gases from the ocean and. a.returning other nutrients and gases to the water. b.producing bacteria that destroy pollutants. c. adding no new elements to the water. d. introducing minerals and trace elements to the water. Add your answer.
Marine organisms help mantain the chemical balance of ocean water by removing nutrients and gases from the ocean and a.returning other nutrients and gases to the water b.producing bacteria that destroy pollutants c.... Marine organisms help mantain the chemical balance of ocean water by removing nutrients and gases from the ocean and. a.returning other nutrients and gases to the water. b.producing bacteria that destroy pollutants. c. adding no new elements to the water. d. introducing minerals and trace elements to the water. Add your answer.
1 Gases can dissolve in water. 2  The dissolving of a gas in water depends on the interaction between the molecules of the gas and the water molecules. 3  The amount of gas that can be dissolved in water depends on the temperature of the water. 4  More gas can dissolve in cold water than in hot water. The bond between carbon and oxygen is not as polar as the bond between hydrogen and oxygen, but it is polar enough that carbon dioxide can dissolve in water. Project the image CO2 Dissolved in Water. Explain that in carbonated water, molecules of carbon dioxide are thoroughly mixed and dissolved in water.