2. Transitive verb that takes a direct object (a single noun or noun phrase), which requires something to receive the action of the verb: I punched the wall.. Here, punched is the transitive verb and the wall is the noun phrase that takes the action of the verb. 3. Indirect and direct object (two noun phrase)
Not all verbs are Linking Verbs, of course. One type of non-linking verb is the dynamic verb (sometimes called an action verb). Here the subject is actively involved in a specific action, e.g. 'kick', 'run', 'eat'. Often, action verbs require something to complete their meaning, but sometimes they don't. Thus the clause is analysed: Subject (She) - Linking Verb (seems) - Complement (tired) or S-V-C. Note that in both those examples the predicatives are called 'subject complements' because they tell you about the subject, either by renaming it (father), or describing it (tired).
Best Answer: You must follow a linking verb with a predicate nominative (a noun, or noun equivalent, that refers back to replace or further describe the subject) or adjective (a descriptive adjective that refers back to replace or further describe the subject). Transitive verb that takes a direct object (a single noun or noun phrase), which requires something to receive the action of the verb: I punched the wall.. Here, punched is the transitive verb and the wall is the noun phrase that takes the action of the verb. 3.
Search. A linking verb is a verb which connects a subject to its predicate without expressing an action. A linking verb is used to re-identify or describe its subject. The word, phrase, or clause which follows a linking verb to re-identify or describe the subject is called the subject complement
A linking verb is a verb that is used to connect a subject with an adjective or noun that describes or identifies the subject. The most common linking verb is be. Other common linking verbs are appear, become, feel, go, grow, look, remain, seem, smell, sound, taste, and turn. Notice that predicate adjectives can be modified by adverbs. A noun that follows a linking verb is called a predicate noun. You might encounter the term predicate nominative, which is an older term for
Predicate Adjectives. An adjective that follows a linking verb is called a predicate adjective. A linking verb expresses a state of being, not an action. Therefore, when we use a linking verb, we must use an adjective after it, not an adverb. Notice that predicate adjectives can be modified by adverbs. A noun that follows a linking verb is called a predicate noun. You might encounter the term predicate nominative, which is an older term for
A linking verb (known as a Copular verb) is normally followed by either a COMPLEMENT element or an ADVERBIAL element. The complement is sometimes called a predicative noun or a predicative adjective, e.g. in 'He is my father', 'is' is the linking verb and 'father' the Complement (predicative noun). Thus the clause is analysed: Subject (He) - Linking Verb (is) - Complement (father) or S-V-C. Thus the clause is analysed: Subject (She) - Linking Verb (seems) - Complement (tired) or S-V-C. Note that in both those examples the predicatives are called 'subject complements' because they tell you about the subject, either by renaming it (father), or describing it (tired).
Linking verbs are verbs that link the subject to the predicate so that more Information about the subject can be provided in the predicate. Examples are seem, appear, look, feel. An important point is that since the predicate modifier is modifying the subject, a noun, it is an adjective, not an adverb. 
A noun can follow both a linking verb and an action verb. When it  follows a linking verb, it's called a predicate nominative. Ex:  Henry is a teacher. When a noun follows a … n action verb,  it's called a direct object. The predicate adjective (also called a subject complement)is the adjective following a linking verb which describes the subject of the sentence. Edit. Share to: Notyouraveragedummy ...