Its speed is not always constant; because of its orbit, it sometimes goes faster or slower. However, its appearance changes because of where it is compared to the earth and su … n-when the sun shines on part of it, that part is visible, but where it is in shadow, it is not visible. The earth gets through 10% of its path in the same length of time whether it is at aphelion (moving slowly) or perihelion (moving fast). The absolute speed at which the earth moves varies, but the rate at which it orbits is constant.
High Earth Orbit. When a satellite reaches exactly 42,164 kilometers from the center of the Earth (about 36,000 kilometers from Earth’s surface), it enters a sort of “sweet spot” in which its orbit matches Earth’s rotation. A geostationary orbit is extremely valuable for weather monitoring because satellites in this orbit provide a constant view of the same surface area. When you log into your favorite weather web site and look at the satellite view of your hometown, the image you are seeing comes from a satellite in geostationary orbit.
Heliocentrism is the scientific model which first placed the Sun at the center of the Solar System and put the planets, including Earth, in its orbit. Historically, heliocentrism is opposed to geocentrism, which placed the Earth at the center. In modern times, Earth's perihelion occurs around January 3, and the aphelion around July 4 (for other eras, see precession and Milankovitch cycles). The changing Earth-Sun distance results in an increase of about 6.9% in solar energy reaching the Earth at perihelion relative to aphelion.
The semi-synchronous orbit is a near-circular orbit (low eccentricity) 26,560 kilometers from the center of the Earth (about 20,200 kilometers above the surface). A satellite at this height takes 12 hours to complete an orbit. A geostationary orbit is extremely valuable for weather monitoring because satellites in this orbit provide a constant view of the same surface area. When you log into your favorite weather web site and look at the satellite view of your hometown, the image you are seeing comes from a satellite in geostationary orbit.
So in that sense, the earth orbits at a constantly varying speed. But there is a sense in which the earth orbits at constant speed. Similar segments of the elliptical orbit are crossed in similar lengths of time wherever the earth is in its orbital path. The earth gets through 10% of its path in the same length of time whether it is at aphelion (moving slowly) or perihelion (moving fast). The absolute speed at which the earth moves varies, but the rate at which it orbits is constant.
The earth's orbit around the sun is elliptical, so the earth moves at a constantly varying velocity as it moves closer to the sun (perihelion) or further away (aphelion). The earth's angular velocity (speed of movement) is considerably greater at perihelion than it is at aphelion. The earth gets through 10% of its path in the same length of time whether it is at aphelion (moving slowly) or perihelion (moving fast). The absolute speed at which the earth moves varies, but the rate at which it orbits is constant.
We also wobble in the tilt of our axis, so that the North Pole does not always point to the star Polaris, which is currently our north star. But, the orbits are pretty stable, because there is a fairly constant gravitational force between the sun and the earth keeping the earth in its orbit. The Earth is always being pulled towards the Sun by gravity. If the Earth were stationary compared to the Sun, it would fall into the sun under the force of gravity. However the Earth is actually moving sideways compared to the center of the Sun at 3 km/second (~2 miles/second).
Earth lies at an average distance of 149.60 million kilometers (92.957 million miles) from the Sun and a complete orbit occurs every 365.256 days (1 sidereal year), during which time Earth travels 940 million kilometers (584 million miles). Earth's orbit has an eccentricity of 0.0167. In modern times, Earth's perihelion occurs around January 3, and the aphelion around July 4 (for other eras, see precession and Milankovitch cycles). The changing Earth-Sun distance results in an increase of about 6.9% in solar energy reaching the Earth at perihelion relative to aphelion.
At least, that is the case now; but the eccentricity of the Earth's orbit (how elliptical it is) also changes over very long periods of time, from almost zero (circular orbit) to about three times its current value. The eccentricity of the orbit varies periodically with a time scale of about 100,000 years. The Earth's orbit is very close to being a perfect circle, but not quite. It is somewhat elliptical, which means that the distance between the Earth and the Sun varies over the course of the year. This effect is too weak to cause the seasons, but it might have some influence over their severity.
The Tilt of the Earth's Axis and its Elliptical Orbit. We have all been taught that the seasons are caused by the 23.4° angular offset (obliquity) between the Earth's axis of rotation and a perpendicular to the Earth's orbital plane with the Sun (see obliquity below). The Earth's orbit is very close to being a perfect circle, but not quite. It is somewhat elliptical, which means that the distance between the Earth and the Sun varies over the course of the year. This effect is too weak to cause the seasons, but it might have some influence over their severity.