Planting Depth. The general rule of thumb for planting spring bulbs is to plant two to three times as deep as the bulbs is tall. This means most large bulbs like tulips or daffodils will be planted about 8 inches deep while smaller bulbs will be planted 3-4 inches deep.
Bulbs grown for scallions or green onions are planted 1 to 2 inches deep and one to two inches apart in rows that are 18 inches apart. Bulbs grown for traditional onions are planted the same depth, five to six inches apart in rows that are one to two feet apart.
Step 2: Depending on the bulb, follow the recommendation on the label for planting depth. As a general rule, plant big bulbs about 8 deep and small bulbs about 5 deep. Set the bulb in the hole pointy side up or the roots down. It's easy to spot the pointy end of a tulip; tougher with a crocus.
Dig holes for the bulbs. Space the holes 4 to 6 inches (10.2 to 15.2 cm) apart, and dig them about 8 inches (20.3 cm) from the base of the bulb. So if you have a 1-inch bulb, you'll need a 9-inch hole.
1 Plant crocus bulbs 3 to 4 inches deep (with the pointy end up). 2  After planting, water well. 3  Plant bulbs in groups or clusters rather than spacing them in a single line along a walkway or border. 4  Single flowers get lost in the landscape.Plant a few inches apart, and plant in groups of 10 or more.
The Northern California Daffodil Society recommends planting standard-sized bulbs in mid-November in USDA zones 8 and 9, about 6 inches deep and smaller miniature bulbs about 2 inches deep, spacing standard bulbs six to eight inches apart and small bulbs four to six inches apart.
Depth. The general rule of thumb for planting spring bulbs is to plant two to three times as deep as the bulbs is tall. This means most large bulbs like tulips or daffodils will be planted about 6 inches deep while smaller bulbs will be planted 3-4 inches deep.
Preparing the Soil. Soil is best prepared for planting onions by mixing in 1 1/2 inches of compost or by adding 10-20-10 fertilizer in a trench. Dig the trench 4 inches deep, add 1/2 cup of fertilizer for each 10 feet of row, cover with 2 inches of soil and plant your onion sets on top of that.