Lean manufacturing includes a set of principles that lean thinkers use to achieve improvements in productivity, quality, and lead-time by eliminating waste through kaizen. Kaizen is a Japanese word that essentially means change for the better or good change.. 
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. Toyota's view is that the main method of lean is not the tools, but the reduction of three types of waste: muda (non-value-adding work), muri (overburden), and mura (unevenness), to expose problems systematically and to use the tools where the ideal cannot be achieved.
At the heart of lean is the determination of value. Value is defined as an item or feature for which a customer is willing to pay. All other aspects of the manufacturing process are deemed waste. Lean manufacturing is used as a tool to focus resources and energies on producing the value-added features while identifying and eliminating non value added activities. We have one simple goal. 
Muda (無駄) is a Japanese word meaning futility; uselessness; idleness; superfluity; waste; wastage; wastefulness, and is a key concept in the Toyota Production System (TPS) as one of the three types of deviation from optimal allocation of resources (muda, mura, muri). Muda has been given much greater attention as waste than the other two which means that whilst many Lean practitioners have learned to see muda they fail to see in the same prominence the variation of mura (unevenness) and muri (overburden).
Intro-To-Lean Intro-To-Lean Muda (Waste) Taiichi Ohno (1912-1990), the Toyota executive who was the most ferocious foe of waste human history has produced, identified the first seven types of muda in manufacturing system: Storage Transportation Waiting Motion Process Defects Over-production Muda is everywhere. 
Definition. Doing more with less by employing 'lean thinking.' Lean manufacturing involves never ending efforts to eliminate or reduce ' muda ' (Japanese for waste or any activity that consumes resources without adding value) in design, manufacturing, distribution, and customer service processes. 
Lean Principles © 2003 Utah Manufacturing Extension Partnership Page 2 of 5 implementing Lean Principles in manufacturing organizations is the elimination or postponement of plans for expansion of warehouse space. • Defects – Production defects and service errors waste resources in four ways. 
Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. Toyota's view is that the main method of lean is not the tools, but the reduction of three types of waste: muda (non-value-adding work), muri (overburden), and mura (unevenness), to expose problems systematically and to use the tools where the ideal cannot be achieved.
The seven wastes originated in Japan, where waste is known as “muda.. The seven wastes is a tool to further categorize “muda” and was originally developed by Toyota’s Chief Engineer Taiichi Ohno as the core of the Toyota Production System, also known as Lean Manufacturing.
The core idea is to maximize customer value while minimizing waste. Simply, lean means creating more value for customers with fewer resources. A lean organization understands customer value and focuses its key processes to continuously increase it. The ultimate goal is to provide perfect value to the customer through a perfect value creation process that has zero waste. 