A general rule of thumb is to bake salmon for 4 to 6 minutes per ½-inch thickness. Salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake, and you can easily test the doneness by inserting a fork into the fish and gently twisting. If it starts to flake, it's done. A general rule of thumb is to bake salmon for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. Salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake, and you can easily test the doneness by inserting a fork into the fish and gently twisting. If it starts to flake, it’s done.
4. Cook the salmon for 3 to 3.5 minutes on each side, for a total of 7 minutes. Do not overcook salmon. Salmon is best served medium-rare. Your salmon is cooked correctly when it feels firm, but with a little give when you press down on it. Marinate your salmon. As a rule of thumb, marinate for 7 to 10 minutes max, using olive oil and butter or your favorite store-bought fish marinade as desired. Leave the skin on your salmon fillet, and simply marinate the fish for about 10 minutes—but no more than 15 minutes
Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2  As a result, it does not need to be marinaded for long in order to absorb flavor. 3  Remove the salmon from the refrigerator at least 10 minutes prior to cooking. 3. Broil for 10 to 12 minutes. Place the broiler pan 5 1/2 inches (14 cm) away from the top heating element and cook the salmon until done. 1  The salmon is done when you can effortlessly flake the fillets with a fork.
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Salmon is done when easily flaked: You can also check the doneness of your salmon with a fork. When the salmon flakes easily with a fork, it's ready. 
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum ba
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2  Remove the salmon from the refrigerator at least 10 minutes prior to cooking. 3. Broil for 10 to 12 minutes. Place the broiler pan 5 1/2 inches (14 cm) away from the top heating element and cook the salmon until done. 1  The salmon is done when you can effortlessly flake the fillets with a fork.