Rainforests help stabilize the world’s climate by absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Scientists have shown that excess carbon dioxide in the atmosphere from human activities is contributing to climate change. 
1 [deforestation calculations | world deforestation rates] Amazon conservation Importance of the Amazon Climate change and the Amazon Interviews with Amazon experts News on the Amazon Visiting the Amazon Amazon rainforest facts Tropical rainforest information. 2  Amazon conservation. 3  Importance of the Amazon. The researchers say the work will help them better understand the role of Amazon rainforest in global climate change. Amazon rainforest fires date back thousands of years (03/14/2007) Fires are nothing new to the Amazon reports a study published in the journalBiotropica.
Climate change refers to any major and sustained change in factors affecting the global climate system, such as surface and ocean temperatures, precipitation patterns, and atmospheric conditions. Evidence has shown that rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have contributed to climate change. 
The world’s climate depends on the Amazon’s rainforests. As well as storing vast amounts of carbon, these huge forests regulate global rainfall patterns. But now climate change is affecting the Amazon-and that could mean more disastrous changes around the world. Why we’re involved. More than half of the Amazon rainforest could be lost or severely damaged as early as 2030 if current trends in deforestation, droughts, forest fires and global greenhouse gas emissions continue. Global warming is already affecting the Amazon. If we don’t take action to tackle climate change, Amazon rainforests could dry up and die over the course of this century. That will have further catastrophic effects on the climate-creating a vicious cycle, a dangerous ‘feedback loop’. The Amazon is a huge store of locked-up carbon
The climate of a tropical rainforest is very hot and wet. The average temperatures of a tropical rainforest are about 80 degrees F all year round with an exception of cool nights. The temperature of the rainforest has never dropped below 64 degrees F. It rains about 160-400 inches each year. 
Besides being affected by climate change, the cutting down of or deforestation of tropical rainforests is a major cause of climate change. Tropical rainforest deforestation is one of the important contributors to global warming. 
By Rhett Butler [citation] Climate change may have a significant impact on the Amazon, according to a number of studies conducted since the mid-1990's. Of particular concern is the link between sea temperatures in the tropical Atlantic and drought in the Amazon. The researchers say the work will help them better understand the role of Amazon rainforest in global climate change. Amazon rainforest fires date back thousands of years (03/14/2007) Fires are nothing new to the Amazon reports a study published in the journalBiotropica.
January 2013 - The Amazon rainforest is vulnerable through a combination of human influences, including deforestation, fire and climate change. Fire frequency and intensity is affected by both human activity and climate, with consequences for forest. The forest density may in turn affect fire activity by suppressing grass fuels, a feedback which can in principle allow abrupt change between forest and savannah.
The combined influence of deforestation, fire and climate change. The first Met Office global climate model to include the response of vegetation had shown the possibility of extensive forest loss from one factor: climate change from increasing greenhouse gases alone (Cox et al. Fire frequency and intensity is affected by both human activity and climate, with consequences for forest. The forest density may in turn affect fire activity by suppressing grass fuels, a feedback which can in principle allow abrupt change between forest and savannah.