It has a whippy tail called a flagellum that allows it to move through the water. The euglena is different than other protozoans because it has chlorophyll in it, the substance that plants contain to make their own food. The euglena is then able to make its own food like a plant when it is in the sunlight. 
Most species of Euglena have photosynthesizing chloroplasts within the body of the cell, which enable them to feed by autotrophy, like plants. However, they can also take nourishment heterotrophically, like animals. In Euglena, one flagellum is very short, and does not protrude from the cell, while the other is relatively long, and often easily visible with light microscopy. In some species, the longer, emergent flagellum is used to help the organism swim.
They are not completely autotrophic though, euglena can also absorb food from their environment; euglena usually live in quiet ponds or puddles. Euglena move by a flagellum (plural, flagella), which is a long whip-like structure that acts like a little motor. The flagellum is located on the anterior (front) end, and twists in such a way as to pull the cell through the water. It is attached at an inward pocket called the reservoir. 
The flagellum whips back and forth and propels the Euglena. Imagine the flagellum to be something like a flag and it just keeps waving allowing the organism to move. Or, y … ou can also imagine the way butterfly stroke is performed in swimming. The flagellum moves in that way and propels the Euglena. Euglena are small organisms in the Protist Kingdom. They can make  their own food, but they can also eat other things like an animal.  They can move with the help of their f … lagellum.
The Euglena are unicellular organisms with flagella. These flagella are long whip-like tails used for movement. Structurally, they do not have a cell wall. Instead, they have a thick outer covering, known as a pellicle, that is composed of protein and gives them both strength and flexibility. Euglena are unicellular protists with a characteristic whip-like tail known as a flagellum. They are primarily found in freshwater, but some do live in moist areas or saltwater. They are able to consume matter and organisms and to do photosynthesis when conditions are favorable.
Euglena is a genus of single-celled flagellate protists. It is the best known and most widely studied member of the class Euglenoidea, a diverse group containing some 54 genera and at least 800 species. Species of Euglena are found in fresh and salt waters. In Euglena, one flagellum is very short, and does not protrude from the cell, while the other is relatively long, and often easily visible with light microscopy. In some species, the longer, emergent flagellum is used to help the organism swim.
They are not completely autotrophic though, euglena can also absorb food from their environment; euglenas usually live in quiet ponds or puddles. Euglena move by a flagellum (plural ‚ flagella), which is a long whip-like structure that acts like a little motor. The flagellum is located on the anterior (front) end, and twirls in such a way as to pull the cell through the water. It is attached at an inward pocket called the reservoir. The Euglena is unique in that it is both heterotrophic (must consume food) and autotrophic (can make its own food).
Euglena use a flagella to move. If necessary, they can also utilize amoeboid movement. This means that sometimes the euglena will contract and expand to move in its environme … nt. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. Euglena are small organisms in the Protist Kingdom. They can make  their own food, but they can also eat other things like an animal.  They can move with the help of their f … lagellum.
This allows the euglena to move through the water in search of food (either sunlight or food particles). Euglena have a mouth where food (bacteria, detritus, other protozoans) collects and is taken into the body in a saclike structure known as a vacuole. The vacuole holds the food throughout the process of digestion. euglena: -Euglenas have two methods of locomotion. They can use their long flagellum, which whips back and forth and propels the euglena, or a structure known as the pellicle. The pellicle, which is made of protein, lies just next to the cell membrane.