Best Answer: All digestion begins in the mouth and stomach where food is broken into small pieces. Proteins are broken down in the stomach by the enzyme protease (pepsin) and is digested further in the small intestines where the pancreas has injected more protease. Lipid digestion advances in the small intestines. Lipids are broken down by bile which is produced in the liver, stored in the gall bladder and injected into the small intestines. The pancreas also injects the enzyme lipase which breaks down lipids. Carbohydrates are also thoroughly digested in the
Digestion of lipids, or fats, and proteins enables your body to use these nutrients to support your metabolic functions. Fat digestion begins in your mouth and protein digestion begins in your stomach. The most extensive breakdown of these nutrients, however, occurs in your small intestine, with assistance from your pancreas and gallbladder. Different groups of chemicals are responsible for the digestion lipids and proteins. Lipases and Cholesterol Esterase. Lipases are fat digesting enzymes. Your stomach, pancreas and salivary glands near your tongue produce different forms of lipases. Although the process begins in your mouth, the majority of fat digestion occurs in your small intestine through the action of pancreatic lipase.
Fat digestion also begins in the mouth with the secretion of the enzyme lingual lipase by glands under your tongue. Although this enzyme doesn't do much with the food while it's in your mouth, it does move on down with the food to your stomach, where it can start to break down about 10-30% of the food's fat content. Fats are also primarily digested in the stomach with the secretion of gastric lipase, the enzyme primarily responsible for fat digestion in humans. As mentioned earlier, lingual lipase from the mouth also helps out in this process.
Fat Digestion. Bile (which is secreted by the gall bladder) and the enzyme lipase (found in the small intestine) break fats down into fatty acids and glycerol. Fat digestion begins with the action of bile, which emulsifies lumps of fat into thousands of fatty droplets. This process allows lipase to begin its enzyme action and ultimately breaks the fats down into fatty acids and glycerol.
It also occurs in the liver, when it produces bile to break down fat, and the liver also breaks down medicine, and small intestine, the small intestine is where the main chemical digestion occurs, the small intestine absorbs all the nutrients into the blood streams. + 36 others found this useful. Chemical digestion occurs int he stomach where acids break down the food turning it into chyme, and also happens in the mouth where saliva mixed with enzymes break food into b … olus.
Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are your body's preferred energy source and are found in the forms of starch, sugar and fiber. Digestion begins in your mouth where the process of chewing mechanically breaks food into small pieces. Enzymes in the saliva initiate chemical digestion
After digestion, these broken-down fat particles called fatty acids combine with cholesterol and bile to move into your cells' mucosa where they are reconverted into large molecules, most passing into vessels -- called lymphatics -- near the intestine. Carbohydrates are your body's preferred energy source and are found in the forms of starch, sugar and fiber. Digestion begins in your mouth where the process of chewing mechanically breaks food into small pieces. Enzymes in the saliva initiate chemical digestion
Most lipids that you consume in your diet are fats. Some digestion occurs in your mouth and the stomach, but most takes place in the small intestine. Bile is produced by your liver, stored and released in your gall bladder and emulsifies fat globules into smaller droplets. Carbohydrates are your body's preferred energy source and are found in the forms of starch, sugar and fiber. Digestion begins in your mouth where the process of chewing mechanically breaks food into small pieces. Enzymes in the saliva initiate chemical digestion