Current Photos of Plants in the Garden! Photos on this page were taken on September 23, 2015. at the Missouri Botanical Garden. Click on the photos for a larger version. 
Angel's trumpet (Datura metel 'Purple Ballerina') A leafy annual with flowers that open in the evening and emit a rich, luscious fragrance. Information. Thorny elaeagnus, (Elaeagnus pungens) is a broad-leafed evergreen shrub. In the late fall it produces many bell shaped flowers that are cream colored in small clusters. 
Learn More About BLOOMING. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for blooming. Nglish: Translation of blooming for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of blooming for Arabic speakers. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about blooming. 
bloom·ing. adv. & adj. Chiefly British Slang. Used as an intensive: a blooming hot day; a blooming idiot. 
Blooming For French Presses. Gently pour a small quantity of hot water onto the coffee grounds (which should be a coarse grind). You should immediately notice a bloom start to form as foam on top of the water. Let the bloom remain for 15-20 seconds, then stir it with your spoon. 
Gardens & Grounds Gallery. The Walled Garden consists of two lengthy arbors entwined with vines and symmetrical flower beds arranged in patterns. The garden blooms with a progression of colors with daffodils, hyacinths, tulips, lush perennials, and chrysanthemums. Gardens & Grounds. Stroll acres of formal and informal gardens designed by America’s foremost landscape architect, Frederick Law Olmsted. From the beauty of the Italian Garden to the breathtaking trees in America’s first managed forest, Biltmore’s lush landscape is a living tribute to Olmsted’s genius.
coating. Process of depositing a thin film of transparent material on the surface of an optical element (e.g. lens, mirror, prism) for the purpose of decreasing or increasing reflection. Reflection from specific wavelengths can be reduced or eliminated by varying the thickness of the film and by multilayer coating. 
Wiktionary (3.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: blooming (Noun). The act by which something blooms. blooming (Noun). The process of making blooms from the ore or from cast iron. blooming (Adverb). Bloody; bleeding; extremely. My train's late again. Freebase. Blooming, Oregon. Blooming is an unincorporated community in Washington County, Oregon, United States near the Tualatin River, about two miles south of Cornelius. Its elevation is 190 feet.