In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Perry is: Pear tree. English Meaning: The name Perry is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Perry is: Pear tree. Also can be a: stranger; traveler. In Welsh the meaning of the name Perry is: Son of Harry. Latin Meaning: The name Perry is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Perry is: Wanderer.
American Meaning: The name Perry is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Perry is: Welsh Meaning: The name Perry is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Perry is: Son of Harry. Latin Meaning: The name Perry is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Perry is: Wanderer. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Perry is an Anglo-Saxon
Perry /per-ry/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Perry) is of French origin, and the meaning of Perry is pear tree. Also diminutive of Peregrine (Latin) wanderer. Originally a boy's name. Author Perri Klass. 
For other uses, see Perry (disambiguation) . Perry is a surname of English origin, deriving from either the Old English pyrige (pear tree), referring to one who dwells by a pear tree. Their name, however, is a reference to the Old English word perie, meaning pear tree. The family held a seat there on lands granted by Duke William of Normandy, their liege lord, for their distinguished assistance at the Battle of Hastings in 1066.
Perry /per-ry/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Perry) is pronounced PARE-ee. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Perry is  traveler, wanderer . Surname and a short form of Peregrine. Also possibly derived from an Old English word referring to a person who lived or worked around a pear tree. Modern use has been inspired by fictional detective Perry Mason. Perry has 1 feminine form: Peri. Perry is a very popular first name for men (#287 out of 1220, Top 23%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#97 out of 150436, Top 1%).
The modern surname spellings include Perry, Perrie, Perree, Pirie, Pirrie, and Pury. Church recordings include Elizabeth Perry, the daughter of Steven and Alice Perry, who was christened on July 25th 1675, at St. Botolph's, Bishopsgate, London. 
English name. In English, the name Perry means-rock. Other origins for the name Perry include-English, Welsh, French.The name Perry is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-rock. Origin-England. Alternate Origins-Welsh French.
Meaning & History. From a surname which is either English or Welsh in origin. It can be derived from Middle English perrie meaning pear tree, or else from Welsh ap Herry, meaning son of HERRY . A famous bearer of the surname was Matthew Perry (1794-1858), the American naval officer who opened Japan to the West. Expand Name Links
Origin of the name Perry: Transferred use of the surname meaning dweller by the pear tree.. It is derived from the Middle English perye (pear, pear tree). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Perry was recorded as a surname from the late 16th century in villages near Colchester, Essex, East England, such as Lexden and Copford. One source suggests the name is of ancient Norman origin and was found in Hampshire in 1066 according to the Domesday Book. Their name, however, is a reference to the Old English word perie, meaning pear tree. The family held a seat there on lands granted by Duke William of Normandy, their liege lord, for their distinguished assistance at the Battle of Hastings in 1066.