Scabies medications can kill the mites and eggs quickly, and patients can usually return to school or work 24 hours after starting treatment. However, the itch may persist for a few weeks. This is the result of an ongoing allergic reaction in the skin. It can only be cured with prescription medications that kill the mites. Treatment is a cream or lotion that is applied to the entire body from the neck down in most cases. It is left on for 8 to 14 hours and then washed off. In some cases, a doctor may prescribe pills to treat scabies. Treatment takes up to three days, depending on the medication used
The scabies infestation usually lasts until treated. People are usually no longer contagious within 24 hours of treatment. Even after successful treatment, the dead mites, dead eggs, and fecal material will remain in the skin for 2 to 4 weeks (until the skin grows out).
Scabies mites are very sensitive to their environment. They can only live off of a host body for 24-36 hours under most conditions. Transmission of the mites involves close person-to-person contact of the skin-to-skin variety, so risk factors include close contact with an infested person. 
Scabies is a skin disease caused by infestation with the mite Sarcoptes scabiei. Although it may infest any human in any climate, it is most common in children younger than two years and is endemic in the tropics. 1 The female mite, whose life expectancy is about 30 days, burrows into the epidermis to lay eggs. 
On a person, scabies mites can live for as long as 1-2 months. Off a person, scabies mites usually do not survive more than 48-72 hours. Scabies mites will die if exposed to a temperature of 50°C (122°F) for 10 minutes. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes. Scabies can spread rapidly under crowded conditions where close body and skin contact is frequent.
It is caused by mites that burrow under the skin. Scabies is easily caught through skin-to-skin contact with affected people. The itching is caused by your body's allergic reaction to the mites, their waste, and the eggs they lay under your skin. Recognize the signs of scabies. Any case of severe itching that lasts weeks or months could result from scabies. Signs of scabies include: 1  Intense itching, especially at night. 2  Tiny raised pimple-like bumps that appear on the skin like a rash. 3  The rash can be on the whole body or limited to certain areas.
The most common symptoms of scabies are intense itching and a pimple-like skin rash. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes. Scabies can spread rapidly under crowded conditions where close body and skin contact is frequent.
Products used to treat scabies are called scabicides because they kill scabies mites; some also kill mite eggs. Scabicides used to treat human scabies are available only with a doctor’s prescription. No “over-the-counter” (non-prescription) products have been tested and approved to treat scabies. Scabicide should be applied to all areas of the body from the neck down to the feet and toes. In addition, when treating infants and young children, scabicide also should be applied to their entire head and neck because scabies can affect their face, scalp, and neck, as well as the rest of their body.
There are no over-the-counter approved treatments for scabies. A doctor must prescribe treatment. A first-line treatment for scabies may involve a topical cream, such as permethrin (Elimite), which is applied directly to the skin, from the neck to the soles of the feet. It should be left on overnight and then washed off 8 to 14 hours later