Countersinking is the drilling of part of the metal/wood, so as to allow an ordinary countersink screw head to lie flush with the surface. The angle of the head of a countersunk screw differs from the angle of a standard drill.
A countersink is used to recess a countersunk wood screw into the surface of the wood. It is a conical shaped area at the surface end of a screw hole and made by a counter sin … k drill bit.   Detailed descriptions and diagrams are at the web liknk below.
A countersink is used to recess a countersunk wood screw into the surface of the wood. It is a conical shaped area at the surface end of a screw hole and made by a counter sin … k drill bit.
1. (Building) to enlarge the upper part of (a hole) in timber, metal, etc, so that the head of a bolt or screw can be sunk below the surface. 2. (Building) to drive (a screw) or sink (a bolt) into such an enlarged hole. n. 3. (Building) Also called: countersink bit a tool for countersinking.
Countersunk head rivets are used to join work-piece materials together where the head of the assembled rivet will be flush with the top of the work piece. Countersunk head rivets are also used to hold friction materials to brake shoes.
Answer   To countersink is to penetrate past the exterior level. For example if you screw a screw into a piece of wood with a screw gun that is set on drill, and i … t penetrates past the surface it would be countersunk.
Countersunk Head Rivets. A “countersunk head rivet” typically has a flat head and can have a tubular or solid shank rivet. Among the raw materials used to produce these rivets is steel, stainless steel, aluminum, brass, and copper. Rivet plating and coating options are selected by end user dependent on the application.
On a PCB pad, countersink or counterbore holes can be plated for unplated. A common usage of countersink or counterbore holes is to allow the head of a countersunk bolt or screw, when placed in the hole, to sit flush with or below the surface of the surrounding material.