Jurassic coast is world wonder. A stretch of coastline along the south of England has been declared a World Heritage Site because of its wealth of prehistoric remains. The honour for a 95-mile (150 kilometres) stretch of shore in Devon and Dorset has been granted by Unesco, the United Nations' cultural committee. 
The Jurassic Coast is a stretch of coast in south-west England. It is between Orcombe Point near Exmouth in East Devon and Old Harry Rocks near Swanage in East Dorset. This is 95 miles long (153 km). It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Its entire length can be walked on the South West Coast Path. 
The Jurassic Coast is a World Heritage Site(WHS). It is the first World Heritage Site in England. It is situated on the coastline of East Dorset and Devon. It stretches for a whopping 95 miles of coastline with rocks recording 185 million years of the world's history. It's rocks are cretaceous, Jurassic and triassic. 
The Heritage Jurassic Coast of Dorset England has won international acclaim. The Dorset coastline has been awarded World Heritage Site status. The Dorset and East Devon coastline of England, where countless fossils have been found over hundreds of years, has been given World Heritage Site Status. The Jurassic Coast has become the most popular area for school and university field trips, possibly in Europe. The rock formations are unique and straddle the entire Mesozoic time, which is divided into the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous periods.
The Natural World Heritage Site, the only one of its kind in England, covers around 95 miles of stunningly beautiful coast and is rich in geological importance, which represents 185 million years of earth history. It displays not just superb Jurassic, but older Triassic and younger Cretaceous rocks too. 
Covering 95 miles of coastline from East Devon to Dorset, displaying 185 million years of the Earth's history. World Heritage status was achieved because the Jurassic Coast provides a unique insight into Earth Sciences. Coast & Countryside Dinner. The Jurassic Coast Trust is partnering with the South West Coast Path Association and East Devon AONB Partnership for a Coast & Countryside dinner on Saturday 26th September at Higher Wiscombe in East Devon.
It extends along 95 miles of coastline, from Orcombe Point in East Devon to Old Harry Rocks in Dorset. It is the only place in the world displaying unbroken evidence of 185 million years of Earth history through three different time periods, the Triassic, the Jurassic and the Cretaceous. 
The Jurassic Coast. The 95 miles of coastline stretching from Exmouth in East Devon to Old Harry Rocks in Studland Bay in Dorset is world renowned as the Jurassic Coast and is definitely one of the places to visit during your stay in Dorset. Dorset’s Jurassic Coast is world renowned for being one of the richest heritage sites for prehistoric remains. Join a fossil hunting walk and you could find your very own piece of dinosaur, or even discover a new species!
The Site is a 95 mile stretch of the south coast from Exmouth in East Devon to Studland in Dorset. The name Jurassic Coast comes from the best known of the geological periods found within it, but in fact the Site includes rocks from the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous periods. The Jurassic Coast is the only place on Earth where 185 million years of the Earth’s history are sequentially exposed in dramatic cliffs, secluded coves, coastal stacks and barrier beaches.
The Jurassic Coast is a World Heritage Site on the English Channel coast of southern England. It stretches from Orcombe Point near Exmouth in East Devon to Old Harry Rocks near Swanage in East Dorset, a distance of 96 miles (155 kilometres). Chartered in 2001, the Jurassic coast was the second wholly natural World Heritage Site to be designated in the United Kingdom. The highest point on the Jurassic Coast, and on the entire south coast of Britain, is Golden Cap at 191 metres (627 ft).