It is asexual reproduction when a non-parasitic flatworm (planaria) loses its tail and thereby spawns a new planarian. This regeneration can occur with any lost body par … ts using its adult stem cells. A bisected worm will grow into two individuals (although they will be genetically identical, like clones).
Asexually, flatworms procreate via fragmentation and budding. Fragmentation, also called cloning, occurs when a flatworm splits off a part of its body, allowing the separated portion to regenerate into a new worm. With budding, a flatworm grows an extension from its body.
They can sexually reproduce with another flatworm or with themselves to make cocoons that contain many eggs. Dugesia can also reproduce asexually, using mitosis (cell division). They can pinch their body in half, a process called fragmentation, and each half will regrow into a complete worm!
Flatworm Reproduction. Generally all flatworms are hermaphroditic, meaning an individual flatworm has both male and female reproductive components. They engage in sexual and asexual reproduction, with the dominant mode of reproduction varying among species.
Question 3 offered the opportunity to compare asexual and sexual reproduction in specific organisms. Part (a) requested the description of a specific organism that reproduces asexually, along with a discussion of two evolutionary advantages to this type of reproduction.
Excretion in flatworms. -they have an excretory system that consists of a small network of tubes throughout the body-flame cells They sweep water and excretorysubstances into tubles. These substances then exit through poresoutside ofthe body.
1 Examples of Asexual Reproduction Asexual reproduction is a mode of reproduction by which offspring arise from a single parent. 2  The offspring will be exact genetic copies of the parent and inherit the genes o…. 3  How Asexual Reproduction Works Reproduction is responsible for the continuation of life on Earth.
Because a flatworm is hermaphroditic, it can produce eggs within its body and also fertilize them with sperm, also generated in its body. Another method of reproduction involves physical contact between two flatworms, where the sperm of one flatworm is absorbed into the skin of another.