English Meaning: The name Skye is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Skye is: Refers to the Scottish Isle of Skye; a nature name referring to the sky. SoulUrge Number: 5. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner desire for travel and adventure, and want to set their own pace in life without being governed by tradition. 
It ranked 637 in popular baby names for boys with 409 occurrences. View the Skylar Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Skylar has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Skylar to other names. Skylar is a variant spelling of Schuyler. Variants of the name Skylar include Skyler. Skylar is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Sky-lar. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 48 in baby name popularity for girls with 4732 occurrences.
The name Skyler or Skylar is an anglicized spelling of the surname and given name Schuyler. Schuyler was originally introduced as to America by 17th century as a Dutch surname by settlers arriving in New York. The spellings Skyler and Skylar came into fashion as either a masculine or feminine given name in the United States during the 1980s.
What does Skylar mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Skylar is of Dutch origin. The meaning of Skylar is sheltering, scholar. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is protection, shelter. Skylar is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Sky-lar. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 48 in baby name popularity for girls with 4732 occurrences.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Skylar is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Sky-lar. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 48 in baby name popularity for girls with 4732 occurrences.
Skylar /sky-lar/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys (also used more generally as girls' name Skylar) is of Danish origin, and the name Skylar means scholar, protection; fugitive; giving shelter. Skylar is a version of Schuyler (Danish). Skylar is also a form of Skyler (Danish). Kreatif forms: Shalar, Skylarro, Skylom. Skylar has 1 feminine form: Skye. Skylar is a rare first name for males but a somewhat popular last name for both adults and children (#138741 out of 150436, Top 92%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Skylar for boys
Skye /skye/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less regularly as boys' name Skye) is pronounced sky. It is of English origin. Sky and Skye are used as nicknames for Skyler and Skylar, as nature names, and possibly in reference to the Isle of Skye in Scotland. Kreatif forms: Saskye, Skyesa, Skyeta. Skye is a somewhat popular first name for females (#2353 out of 4276, Top 55%) and an even more popular last name for both adults and children (#59147 out of 150436, Top 39%). (2000 U.S. Census).