Just curious what your thoughts are about if Lyme can come back after treatment. I had Lyme about 5 years ago and was treated with oral antibiotics and a Central line for about 3 months. yes it can come back. I was sick for 5 years and got well after 2 1/2 years of treatment. I stayed well for over 3 years and considered myself cured. I had no symptoms during that time.
The IDSA thinks Lyme disease symptoms after treatment represent a possibly autoimmune, “post-Lyme syndrome” that is not responsive to antibiotics. The IDSA essentially regards Lyme disease as an acute infection like strep throat that can be treated with a short course of antibiotics. 
Symptoms. The most common symptom of Lyme disease is a rash, medically called an erythema migrans lesion. Often known as a bull's-eye rash, the skin infection spreads gradually from the site of the tick bite in a widening circle. For patients with the rash, Wormser said he begins treatment for Lyme immediately. However, if a rash is absent, physicians will perform additional tests to confirm a diagnosis of Lyme disease. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test, also known as an ELISA test, is the standard blood test for
Lyme disease is an infection that is spread to humans through the bite of deer ticks carrying a bacterium, Borrelia burgdorferi. In 2012, there were nearly 25,000 confirmed cases of Lyme disease in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For patients with the rash, Wormser said he begins treatment for Lyme immediately. However, if a rash is absent, physicians will perform additional tests to confirm a diagnosis of Lyme disease. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test, also known as an ELISA test, is the standard blood test for
Hi all -. Just curious what your thoughts are about if Lyme can come back after treatment. I had Lyme about 5 years ago and was treated with oral antibiotics and a Central line for about 3 months. Anyway, I've read that physical or emotional trauma can revive Lyme. yes it can come back. I was sick for 5 years and got well after 2 1/2 years of treatment. I stayed well for over 3 years and considered myself cured. I had no symptoms during that time.
After treatment, a small number of people still have some symptoms, such as muscle aches and fatigue. The cause of these continuing symptoms, known as post-treatment Lyme disease syndrome, is unknown, and treating with more antibiotics doesn't help. Some experts believe that certain people who get Lyme disease are predisposed to develop an autoimmune response that contributes to their symptoms. More research is needed.
Several controlled studies have found that long-term antibiotics did not help people who had already been treated for Lyme disease but had such lingering problems. Despite the data, the belief has hung on that Lyme disease bacteria can cause a chronic infection even after treatment. The researchers who conducted the new study wanted to test that idea by finding out whether people who had repeated bouts of the disease were actually having relapses.
Examples of common antibiotics used to treat Lyme disease include doxycycline and amoxicillin. Antibiotics are usually given for up to three weeks. Individuals in later stages of the disease may require several courses of intravenous antibiotics, but there is the possibility that symptoms will persist. For patients with the rash, Wormser said he begins treatment for Lyme immediately. However, if a rash is absent, physicians will perform additional tests to confirm a diagnosis of Lyme disease. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test, also known as an ELISA test, is the standard blood test for
Without treatment, or if treatment is unsuccessful, Lyme disease can cause serious complications. The bacterium that causes the disease initially infects the skin, but if the infection is left untreated, it can spread to other areas of the body, including the brain, where it can cause meningitis, according to Wormser. For patients with the rash, Wormser said he begins treatment for Lyme immediately. However, if a rash is absent, physicians will perform additional tests to confirm a diagnosis of Lyme disease. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test, also known as an ELISA test, is the standard blood test for