Or view individual entries for popular Irish names, such as the meaning of Aiden, or find out the history and correct pronunciation of the classic girls name Siobhan. Make sure your speakers are turned up as Frank helps with the Irish name pronunciation of each one and gives you the meaning and an associated tale in his own inimitable Irish way. Start your journey by visiting our Irish boy names or Irish girl names pages.
Baby names. Welcome to SheKnows baby names, where you can find the perfect name for your new bundle of joy. We have over 30,000 baby names that range from the unique, and most popular, to ones for your beautiful little girl, or ones with swagger for the little boy in your life. Take some time to look through our list, search by origin, or meaning, or most popular by decade, or highest rated. Enjoy, and congratulations!
Irish Baby Names. The Irish Baby Names list has more than 1,700 names for you to choose from, together with their meanings. You can rate your favorite names, add your comments, browse the list, or use the Advanced Search Tool above to find the most popular Irish baby names among our user
Search Baby Names. Search baby names by meaning, name, syllables, origin and gender. BabyNames.com is one of the most accurate sources of names and meanings online, maintained by international name scholars. 
Name Srisha generally means Flower, is of Indian origin, Name Srisha is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Srisha are mainly Hindu by religion. Find qualities of Aquarius (Kumbh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Srisha or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kumbh (Aquarius) with other zodiac signs.
We have a definitive list of Irish baby names for boys and girls so you can research the meaning and listen to the audio so you can learn how to pronounce names in Irish correctly and hear the gaelic name as well. *NEW* Try our new Irish Travel Search and the Irish name generator to find a random, funny Irish name. Make sure your speakers are turned up as Frank helps with the Irish name pronunciation of each one and gives you the meaning and an associated tale in his own inimitable Irish way. Start your journey by visiting our Irish boy names or Irish girl names pages.
List of Irish baby names, Irish baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Irish names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Irish baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. 
I grew up in Ireland and have always had an interest in the origin of Irish names and now you can listen to Frank McCourt, Pulitzer prize-winning author of Angela's Ashes and the best-seller Teacher Man offer you 200 gaelic Irish names and there meanings for your baby girl or baby boy. Make sure your speakers are turned up as Frank helps with the Irish name pronunciation of each one and gives you the meaning and an associated tale in his own inimitable Irish way. Start your journey by visiting our Irish boy names or Irish girl names pages.
You've come to the right place. Our baby name guide presents the most popular baby names, celeb baby names, and thousands of names that are searchable by origin and gender. Our guide also includes baby name meanings and lets you keep a list of your favorite names to help you make this important decision. Photo: Thinkstock / The Bump. 