The backbone of the DNA strand is made from alternating phosphate and sugar residues. The sugar in DNA is 2-deoxyribose, which is a pentose (five-carbon) sugar. The sugars are joined together by phosphate groups that form phosphodiester bonds between the third and fifth carbon atoms of adjacent sugar rings. 
A DNA molecule (deoxyribonucleine acid) is made of two chains of several thousands of linked nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of a phosphate group, a deoxyribose and a nitrogenous base (Fig. 1). The four nitrogenous bases that occur in DNA are: adenine (A) , guanine (G) , thymine (T) and cytosine (C) (Fig. 2). 
Best Answer: DNA backbones are made up of deoxyribose, a pentose sugar. These sugars are connected via a phosphodiester bond. The phosphate groups have a negative charge to them, which allows positively charged histone proteins to interact with them in forming chromatin. Also helps separate DNA with gel electrophoresis. 
User: The backbone, or sides, of the DNA molecule are made of A. cytosine. B. nitrogenous bases. C. hydrogen bonding. D. sugar and phosphate. 
The double helix describes the appearance of double-stranded DNA, which is composed of two linear strands that run opposite to each other, or anti-parallel, and twist together. Each DNA strand within the double helix is a long, linear molecule made of smaller units called nucleotides that form a chain. 
Posted on. (Answer #1). DNA, or Deoxyribonucleic Acid, is a double helix, with a backbone that is made up of alternating molecules of deoxyribose, a five-carbon sugar with the chemical formula C5H10O4 and molecules of phosphate, an inorganic salt with the formula PO4. The DNA molecule is made up of two such strands, which formed the backbone, rather like the side rails of a ladder. The rungs of the ladder are formed by bonded pairs of nitrogenous bases known as adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine. Sources: 1  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA.
A DNA molecule is made up of numerous genes and are found on chromosomes. DNA contains monomers called nucleotides, which is made up of a phosphate group, a deoxyribose sugar, … and a nitrogenous base. These nucleotides connect together to form the double-stranded structure, called the double helix. The double helix structure was founded by Watson & Cricke. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The backbone of the DNA molecule consists of a sugar, deoxyribose and a phosphate group.
A DNA molecule is made up of numerous genes and are found on chromosomes. DNA contains monomers called nucleotides, which is made up of a phosphate group, a deoxyribose sugar, … and a nitrogenous base. These nucleotides connect together to form the double-stranded structure, called the double helix. DNA is made up of a base (adenine, thymine, cytosine and guanine), a phosphate and a deoxyribose Sugar. The phosphate and the sugar form the backbone whi … le the bases form the links in between.
The primary structure of DNA can be broken in two parts: 1) the backbone of the molecule and 2) the bases, which are the side chains. The backbone of DNA is made up of alternating sugar (deoxyribose) and phosphate groups as seen below: sugar-phosphate-sugar-phosphate-sugar-phosphate... 