The maximum you can stay in the UK, at any single time is six months as a sports visitor. If however your visa was granted for a period less than six months, you may apply for an extension of your visa which takes you up to the maximum of six months. Evidence of additional savings. D. Extension. The maximum you can stay in the UK, at any single time is six months as a business visitor. If however your visa was granted for a period less than six months, you may apply for an extension of your visa which takes you up to the maximum of six months. NB
You can usually stay in the UK for up to 6 months. You might be able to stay for longer if: 1  you apply (and pay an extra fee) for a long-term visit visa and you can prove you need to visit the UK regularly over a longer period. 2  you’re coming to the UK for private medical treatment-up to 11 months. You can apply for a Standard Visitor visa if you want to visit the UK for business-related activities, eg: 1  you’re coming to the UK for a conference, meeting or training. 2  you want to take part in a specific sports-related event.
D. Extension. The maximum you can stay in the UK, at any single time is six months as a business visitor. If however your visa was granted for a period less than six months, you may apply for an extension of your visa which takes you up to the maximum of six months. NB. There is an exception if you are an ‘Academic Visitor’ as you are entitled to stay in the UK for a maximum of 12 months.
In order to know where to apply, please click here. You may apply for this long stay visa or visitor visa if you intend to settle in France (for example as a retiree) and live there more than 90 days per semester. CAUTION: this visa DOES NOT allow you to work in France. 
1 B visitors for business or pleasure. 2  No more than a year at first, usually six months. 3  You can apply for extensions of stay in six-month increments if your reasons are consistent with the terms and conditions of your original status. Below is a quick summary of how long various types of visa holders (shown by their letter designation) are normally allowed to stay. In situations where derivative status is allowed, most often for your spouse and children, you can assume that they will be allowed the same length of stay as you.
How long it will take. You can apply for a visa up to 3 months before your date of travel to the UK. You should get a decision on your visa within 3 weeks. Check the guide processing times to find out how long getting a visa might take in the country you’re applying from. You can apply for a Standard Visitor visa if you want to visit the UK for business-related activities, eg: 1  you’re coming to the UK for a conference, meeting or training. 2  you want to take part in a specific sports-related event.
As a business visitor, you must show that: 1  you plan to stay for less than six months, 2  you do not plan to enter the Canadian labour market, 3  your main place of business, and source of income and profits, is outside Canada, 4  you have documents that support your application and. 5  you meet Canada’s basic entry requirements, because you. 6  have a valid 7  ... h Determine your eligibility – Visit on business. Starting March 15, 2016, visa-exempt foreign nationals who fly to or transit through Canada will need an Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA). Exceptions include U.S. citizens and travellers with a valid visa. Read about the changes and how they may affect you.
Visitors can come to the UK for purposes of tourism, visiting friends, business visits and similar. Visitors can stay for maximum 6 months in each 12 months. Not 6 months from each entry to the UK. Even if your visitor visa is for 5 or 10 years you can still stay for maximum 180 days in each of those years. How to count ‘6 months in 12 months’? A 12 months period starts from ‘now’, date in question or date of entry etc and you need to count backwards (not a calendar year).
D. Extension. The maximum you can stay in the UK is six months as a general visitor. If however your visa was granted for a period less than six months, you may apply for an extension of your visa which takes you up to the maximum of six months. Evidence of additional savings. D. Extension. The maximum you can stay in the UK, at any single time is six months as a business visitor. If however your visa was granted for a period less than six months, you may apply for an extension of your visa which takes you up to the maximum of six months. NB