Use arrant in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of arrant is absolutely, completely or utterly. When a statement is absolutely, completely ridiculous, the statement is an example of arrant nonsense.
Full Definition of ARRANT. — ar·rant·ly adverb. See arrant defined for English-language learners. See arrant defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of arrant from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
Origin of ERRANT. Middle English erraunt, from Anglo-French errant, present participle of errer to err & errer to travel, from Late Latin iterare, from Latin iter road, journey — more at itinerant. 
Origin. Alteration of errant. Originally meaning wandering (errant), the term came to be an intensifier due to its use as an epithet, e.g. in the phrases arrant thieves and arrant knaves (i.e., wandering bandits). When a statement is absolutely, completely ridiculous, the statement is an example of arrant nonsense.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Arrant immigration records. You can find out when most of the Arrant families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI). Click on a circle in the chart to view Arrant birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
(ăr′ənt). adj. Completely such; thoroughgoing: an arrant fool; the hotel's arrant luxury. [Variant of errant .]. ar′rant·ly adv. Your geniuses are all arrant asses -- the greater the genius the greater the ass -- and to this rule there is no exception whatever.
Click on a place to view Arrant immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Arrant families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Click on a circle in the chart to view Arrant birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
ar·rant. adj. Completely such; thoroughgoing: an arrant fool; the hotel's arrant luxury. [Variant of errant .]. ar′rant·ly adv. Your geniuses are all arrant asses -- the greater the genius the greater the ass -- and to this rule there is no exception whatever.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of arrant from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.