“If immigrant wage gaps and excess unemployment were completely eliminated,” a December, 2011 Royal Bank of Canada study estimated, it would mean more than $30-billion in additional earnings – about 2 per cent of GDP at the time. “It’s an untapped resource for our community,” Eaton said.
It’s possible, but the productive capacity of immigrants will increase the real amount of goods, and the result is a higher standard of living for everyone in the country. Canada and other nations would do well to lay the blame at their own feet for high rates of unemployment among youth.
Overall, 2008 was a peak year for the Canadian labour market. Both the rates of employment and labour force participation reached record highs (63.5% and 67.7%, respectively), and the unemployment rate hit an historic low of 6.1%. For core-aged immigrants, the employment rate was 77.4%, and the unemployment rate, 6.8%.
One reason for this effect is that immigrants and U.S.-born workers generally do not compete for the same jobs; instead, many immigrants complement the work of U.S. employees and increase their productivity.
Through that same time frame there has been an average of 665,485 immigrants that come into this country per year. Figure 1 and Figure 2 give a visual to determine the lack of correlation between immigration numbers and unemployment rate.
At 85.6% in 2011, the employment rate for Filipino-born immigrants was higher than the rate of 82.9% for the Canadian born, and their unemployment rate of 5.4% was similar to the rate of 5.5% for the Canadian born. These labour-market outcomes may be at least partly explained by certain education characteristics.
© 2007 The AuthorJournal compilation © 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University IMMIGRATION UNEMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP:THE EVIDENCE FROM CANADA* ASADUL ISLAM Monash University This paper examines the relationship between unemployment and immigration in Canada.
While employment continued to rise, today’s employment report suggests that the pace of job growth slowed. Employer payrolls increased only by 115,000 jobs, following a gain of 154,000 last month and average increases of 252,000 per month in the three prior months.
In a forthcoming discussion paper for The Hamilton Project, “Immigration Policies for Jobs, Productivity, and Growth,” University of California, Davis, Professor Giovanni Peri puts forward one approach to immigration reform that focuses on addressing economic concerns about the U.S. immigration system.