Vibrios are gram-negative, rod-shaped bacteria that occur naturally in estuarine or marine environments. Roughly a dozen species are known to cause disease in humans, accounting for an estimated 80,000 illnesses, 500 hospitalizations and 100 deaths each year in the United States. 1 Horseman MA, Surani S. A comprehensive review of Vibrio vulnificus: an important cause of severe sepsis and skin and soft-tissue infection. 2  Int J Infect Dis 2010;15:e157-66. 3  Daniels NA, MacKinnon L, Bishop R, et al. 4  Vibrio parahaemolyticus infections in the United States, 1973–1998.
Vibrio cholerae bacteria can cause cholera, which is an acute, diarrheal illness that can result in severe dehydration and even death within a matter of hours. Vibrio cholerae bacteria are gram-negative rods (see Pictures of Cholera) that are facultatively anaerobic. Once Vibrio cholerae bacteria are ingested, the bacteria travel to the small intestine where they begin to multiply. Vibrio cholerae bacteria then begin to produce their toxin, which is the main cause of the characteristic cholera symptom: watery diarrhea. A person needs to ingest a lot of Vibrio cholerae bacteria in order to develop symptoms of cholera
While the bacteria are real, public health officials say the flesh-eating part is not. Vibrio vulnificus is a naturally occurring bacterium that lives in warm saltwater and infects humans through the consumption of undercooked shellfish and skin wounds. Vibrio vulnificus multiplies in warmer water temperatures and tends to reach peak levels in midsummer, according to Mody, so the higher bacteria count coincides with the height of beach season. This adds to the public's fear of the bacteria. After all, no one wants to get a limb amputated while on vacation.
The dozen species of Vibrio bacterium known to cause disease in humans are not in this group but do account for an estimated 80,000 illnesses, 500 hospitalizations and 100 deaths each year in the United States. Vibrio vulnificus multiplies in warmer water temperatures and tends to reach peak levels in midsummer, according to Mody, so the higher bacteria count coincides with the height of beach season. This adds to the public's fear of the bacteria. After all, no one wants to get a limb amputated while on vacation.
Vibrio are often pathogens of humans. Several species of Vibrio, including V. cholerae, V. parahaemolyticus, and V. vulnificus, are known to cause seafood-borne illnesses such as septicaemia and wound infections. V. vulnificus is responsible for 95% of seafood-related deaths. Vibrio bacteria are gram-negative and largely halophilic. However, a few species are nonhalophilic, depending on their sodium chloride requirements. Most species are also oxidase-positive. Most species are sensitive to acid pH, but tolerant of alkaline pH.
Vibrio is a family of bacteria that can cause a variety of illnesses in humans. The most famous form of Vibrio is Vibrio cholerae, the bacterium that causes cholera. Vibrio cholerae has been the cause of seven worldwide pandemics and countless deaths over the last couple of centuries. 
Infection with pathogenic species of the family Vibrionaceae can cause two distinct categories of infection: cholera and vibriosis, both of which are nationally notifiable. Information on this site focuses on two species that cause vibriosis: Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Vibrio vulnificus. 1 Horseman MA, Surani S. A comprehensive review of Vibrio vulnificus: an important cause of severe sepsis and skin and soft-tissue infection. 2  Int J Infect Dis 2010;15:e157-66. 3  Daniels NA, MacKinnon L, Bishop R, et al. 4  Vibrio parahaemolyticus infections in the United States, 1973–1998.
Vibrio vulnificus is a bacterium that lives in brackish saltwater and seawater. Like V. parahaemolyticus, it is part of a group of vibrios that require salt and it is present in higher concentrations in warmer waters. 1 Horseman MA, Surani S. A comprehensive review of Vibrio vulnificus: an important cause of severe sepsis and skin and soft-tissue infection. 2  Int J Infect Dis 2010;15:e157-66. 3  Daniels NA, MacKinnon L, Bishop R, et al. 4  Vibrio parahaemolyticus infections in the United States, 1973–1998.
Vibrios are bacteria that occur naturally in estuarine and marine waters worldwide. Vibrio are in the same family of bacteria that cause cholera. There are over 80 species of Vibrio bacteria. Vibrio vulnificus, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, Vibrio fluvialis, Vibrio mimicus, and Vibrio alginolyticus are some of the species known to cause infection when people are exposed by open wounds or punctures that occur while swimming, wading, crabbing, or fishing. 