Best Answer: The girl's name Evie is a variant of Eve (Latin, Hebrew) and Evelyn (Norman), and the meaning of Evie is life, animal. It is also found in Old French meaning 'Hazelnut' and in Greek meaning 'gospel'or 'good news'. It's English and it's just a nickname for Eve or Evelyn, so it has no true meaning. But since it's just a different form of those two, you could say that it means what they do. Eve means life, and Evelyn means beautiful bird. I don't know anyone named Evie, so I can't tell you what they are like.
Evie is a diminutive (English and Spanish) of Eva. Evie is also a diminutive (English) of the English and French Evangeline. Evie is also a diminutive (English and Hungarian) of the English and French Eve. Evie is also a diminutive of the English Evelyn. Evie is a rather popular baby girl name, and it is also regarded as rather trendy. In 1900, 0.029% of baby girls were named Evie. 
The name Evie is of English origin, and it means Diminutive form of Eve . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
Hebrew Meaning: The name Evie is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Evie is: Life, living, lively. Famous bearer: the Old Testament mother of the human race who tasted the forbidden fruit, precipitating the Fall of Man. American Meaning: The name Evie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Evie is: Life, living, lively. Famous bearer: the Old Testament mother of the human race who tasted the forbidden fruit, precipitating the Fall of Man. Latin Meaning: The name Evie is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Evie is: Living one. The Latin form of the Hebrew Eve.
Origin of the name Evie: Derived from the Hebrew Chava (life), which is from hawwah (life). The name is borne in the Bible by the first woman, the mother of all the living.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Additional Comments: Evie means 'life' in Hebrew and is a form of the name Eve. In more modern times, it is a pet form … of the name Evelyn with the most popularity in English speaking countries. Answered. In Uncategorized. NO idea what it actually means but one of my best friends is called Evie and trust me she rocks people! She's cool, quirky and funny and clever! SO that's what the name means! (in my opinion). BYE! 2nd answereer says: The English name Evie is the diminutive form of Eve.
Evie is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced E-vie. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 501 in baby name popularity for girls with 615 occurrences. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Evie in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Evie in Nautical Flags page.
Eve /iːv/ is an English given name for a female, derived from Eva, in turn originating with Hebrew חַוָּה (Chavah/Havah-chavah, to breathe, and chayah, to live, or to give life). The traditional meaning of Eve is 'living'. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Evie. Evie is traditionally considered the diminutive of Eve or Evelyn (which would explain the difference in pronunciation between EE-vee and EV-ee, respectively). However, Evie could be a pet form for any name starting with the “Ev-“ prefix (like Evangeline, Evita) or even for the French Genevieve. Evie is, however, a diminutive. As such, as a given name, Evie is quite limiting and fairly informal. You might be doing your daughter a disservice; in other words, if you chose one of the more traditional root names, you can use Evie as her everyday name.