Meaning & History. From a French surname which was derived from a place name meaning stony. It was originally given in honour of Saint Jeanne-Francoise françoise De, chantal the founder of The Visitation order in the 17th. Century it has become associated With french chant. song Meaning & History. From a French surname which was derived from a place name meaning stony. It was originally given in honour of Saint Jeanne-Francoise françoise De, chantal the founder of The Visitation order in the 17th. century
Meaning of Chantelle: This is a variant spelling of Chantal, which is a French surname meaning place of stones.. It first came into use as a given name as a way to honor the 17th century French saint Jeanne-Francoise Françoise, Fremiot frémiot Baronne. De chantal it has erroneously been associated With the french, word chant.. meaning song 0 5. The meaning of Chantelle is  Stony, place of stones  and  Song . Its origin is  Modern English variant of the French name Chantal . Chantelle is a form of Chantal and is generally pronounced like  shan TELL . This name is mostly being used as a girls name.
This interesting and unusual surname is of Old French origin, and is a metonymic occupational name for a singer in a chantry, a chorister or precentor. The derivation is from the Old Norman-French cant, Old French chant, singing, song. Job descriptive surnames originally denoted the actual occupation of the namebearer, and later became hereditary.
ORIGIN OF THE NAME By Michael Cheeseman 2005. The origins of the Chant surname, like most names, is shrouded in the mists of time. Surnames before the Norman Conquest of 1066 were rare in England, having been brought from mainland Europe by the Normans when William the Conquerer invaded their shores. One suggested origin of the surname of Chant, was that it derived from the Old French word Chante , a name given to a singer. No one can be one hundred percent certain of the true origin of any surname, when it was first used or what it s exact significance and meaning was. The Chant name it appears, was brought to England in the wake of the Norman Conquest of 1066. The name Cante (without surname), was listed as a tenant of the Domesday Book in 1086. In 1086 the compilation of the Domesday Book had been ordered by William the Conqueror(1027-87), King of England from 1066.
Chant in Ancestry Family Histories. Read online surname origin books, biographies, journals, county histories, multi-generational genealogies & family trees, memoirs and other first-hand historical narratives which pertain to the Chant family name to help add detail and personality to the pages of your family history. Chant in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Chant surname forum. Look for unknown cousins or relatives with whom you may have lost touch.
Chant in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Join others on the Chant genealogy mailing list for discussion and sharing of information regarding family histories of Chant surname and its variations. Note: Not all surnames have a mailing list. If you get the Page is Not Available message, no mailing list is available. Chant in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Chant surname forum. Look for unknown cousins or relatives with whom you may have lost touch.
French: from Old French chant ‘song’, applied as a metonymic occupational name for a singer in a chantry, or possibly as a nickname for a noted songster. Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press. You can find out where the majority of the Chant families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Richard Cante, which was dated 1327, in the Subsidy Rolls of Suffolk, during the reign of King Edward 111, known as The Father of the Navy, 1327 - 1377. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. The derivation is from the Old Norman-French cant, Old French chant, singing, song. Job descriptive surnames originally denoted the actual occupation of the namebearer, and later became hereditary.