Mutations are errors in codons caused by changes in nucleotide bases. Some mutations may not have much effect. For example, if the codon GAA becomes the codon GAG, because the genetic code is degenerate, the codon will still code for the amino acid glutamate. Such ineffectual mutations are called silent mutations.
The genetic code can be expressed as either RNA codons or DNA codons. RNA codons occur in messenger RNA (mRNA) and are the codons that are actually read during the synthesis of polypeptides (the process called translation). 
There are three stop codons: UAG, UAA, and UGA. In DNA, the uracil (U) is replaced by thymine (T). If a change in the DNA sequence, or mutation, of a gene occurs that creates a stop codon, this is called a nonsense mutation. A nonstop mutation is a change in the sequence of a stop codon that turns it into a codon that specifies an amino acid. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Nonsense mutations occur when a codon that is supposed to specify an amino acid is changed to a stop codon instead. This results in a protein that is shorter than normal because it cannot finish adding all the necessary amino acids. These truncated proteins are often not functional.
If the reading frame is the same then this would be a truncated version of the original, otherwise it would be junk and we could say that the original protein is eliminated by the mutation. Depending on what processes this protein is engaged in and how it is regulated this could impact the mRNA level. -export of mRNA disrupted. -mRNA expression changed. -final protein eliminated. thanks. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service.
During transcription, RNA polymerase makes a copy of a gene from the DNA to mRNA as needed. This process is similar in eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Finally, the mRNA is degraded. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is a large family of RNA molecules that convey genetic information from DNA to the ribosome, where they specify the amino acid sequence of the protein products of gene expression.
-Ser-Gly-Pro-Leu-Stop. If the underlined guanine was changed to thymine the mRNA sequence for this codon would be UGU and the amino acid encoded by UGU is Cysteine, the same amino acid encoded by UGC, therefore there would be no effect of this mutation on the production of the protein. Log In. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The AUG start codon is the TRANSLATION start, not transcription. It would be transcribed, then the mutated mRNA would be shunted to the ribosomes as usual but translation would not take place. Correct answer is C. 
As in DNA, mRNA genetic information is in the sequence of nucleotides, which are arranged into codons consisting of three bases each. Each codon encodes for a specific amino acid, except the stop codons, which terminate protein synthesis. Finally, the mRNA is degraded. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is a large family of RNA molecules that convey genetic information from DNA to the ribosome, where they specify the amino acid sequence of the protein products of gene expression.
The Proportion of the DNA That Codes for Genes. 12 Introns and Exons • Portions of the mRNA are removed before translation. Mutations • Point Mutation – change in a single nucleotide of the DNA sequence. • Insertions and Deletions – changes one or more nucleotides in the DNA sequence. 