Word Root of FORM. The Latin word forma, meaning “ form ” or “ shape, ” gives us the root form. Words from the Latin forma have something to do with shape. The form of a person or thing is its shape. To con form is to fit in with others in form, shape, or manner. Something form al, such as dinner, follows a specific custom or form. The form at of something, such as a book, is its general shape and arrangement
Properties of ISM gas in our region of the Milky Way Galaxy: Stars form in the densest regions of the interstellar medium, or ISM, called molecular clouds. The ISM is the name given to the gas and dust that exists between the stars within a galaxy. It is 99% gas and 1% dust, by mass.
Stretch forming is performed on a stretch press, in which a piece of sheet metal is securely gripped along its edges by gripping jaws. The gripping jaws are each attached to a carriage that is pulled by pneumatic or hydraulic force to stretch the sheet. The tooling used in this process is a stretch form block, called a form die, which is a solid contoured piece against which the sheet metal will be pressed. The most common stretch presses are oriented vertically, in which the form die rests on a press table that can be raised into the sheet by a hydraulic ram.
For other uses, see Forming (disambiguation) . Forming, or metal forming, is the metalworking process of fashioning metal parts and objects through mechanical deformation; the workpiece is reshaped without adding or removing material, and its mass remains unchanged. Metal forming tends to have more uniform characteristics across its subprocesses than its contemporary processes, cutting and joining. On the industrial scale, forming is characterized by: 1  Very high required loads and stresses, between 50 and 2500 N/mm2 (7-360 ksi).
form. n. 1. a. The shape and structure of an object: the form of a snowflake. b. The body or outward appearance of a person or an animal; figure: In the fog we could see two forms standing on the bridge. c. A model of the human figure or part of it used for displaying clothes. d. A mold for the setting of concrete
Forming processes are particular manufacturing processes which make use of suitable stresses (like compression, tension, shear or combined stresses) to cause plastic deformation of the materials to produce required shapes. 
Synonyms: form, figure, shape, contour, profile. These nouns refer to the external outline of a thing. Form is the outline and structure of a thing as opposed to its substance: the pointed form of a pyramid; a brooch in the form of a lovers' knot. 1. a. The shape and structure of an object: the form of a snowflake. b. The body or outward appearance of a person or an animal; figure: In the fog we could see two forms standing on the bridge. c. A model of the human figure or part of it used for displaying clothes.
Spinning, sometimes called spin forming, is a metal forming process used to form cylindrical parts by rotating a piece of sheet metal while forces are applied to one side. A sheet metal disc is rotated at high speeds while rollers press the sheet against a tool, called a mandrel, to form the shape of the desired part. The tooling used in this process is a stretch form block, called a form die, which is a solid contoured piece against which the sheet metal will be pressed. The most common stretch presses are oriented vertically, in which the form die rests on a press table that can be raised into the sheet by a hydraulic ram.