· just now. Report Abuse. the maximum recommended dose of ibuprofen is 2400 mg per day. Taking 3000 mg will cause stomach upset and can cause stomach bleeding, but shouldn't cause long term lasting damage to organs, unless consumed on a continuous basis. 
Note: If you are overdose on ibuprofen or any other medicine/drug call the emergency now! Ibuprofen takes away any pain, cramps etc and makes you sleep better. It is a great pain relief, for all different kinds of pains, specially headache and migrane. Therefore it’ can be used in many cases. But doses above 400 mg/kg are considered as overdose and can result into any of the above consequences. It is not possible to determine a precise dose that crosses the danger line as it varies from person to person depending upon his/her weight, age and medical record of the individual patient.
This treatment can be performed within 60 minutes of ingestion of Ibuprofen. Below 100 mg/kg, the toxic effects of Ibuprofen are less likely. But doses above 400 mg/kg are considered as overdose and can result into any of the above consequences. It is not possible to determine a precise dose that crosses the danger line as it varies from person to person depending upon his/her weight, age and medical record of the individual patient.
Approximately 1½ hours after the reported ingestion of from 7 to 10 MOTRIN (ibuprofen) tablets (400 mg), a 19-month old child weighing 12 kg was seen in the hospital emergency room, apneic and cyanotic, responding only to painful stimuli. 
The answer to your question depends on how much your are taking, how often you are taking them, how long you taken them for, and what other problems may occur. It sounds like you are taking 600 mg (3 200 mg pills) four times per day. This is 2400 mg a day. This is close to the max that I would ever allow a patient to take. By the book, 3200 mg per day is the maximum safe dose. While at this dose you are unlikely to overdose, it is possible and even likely that you may develop a longer term complication from them. The first and most likely complication is a stomach ulcer. If you develop stomach pain or if your stools turn dark, this could mean that you have a stomach ulcer.
Animal research shows that the lethal dose that kills 50% of test animals (LD50) of oral ibuprofen is 636 mg/kg. If this value is applied to humans, it may take 191 tablets (200mg/tablet) or a total of 38,160 mg for a 60-kg man to die from acute ibuprofen overdose. The effects of ibuprofen at lesser doses (600-800mg) also include upset stomach, which can lead to internal bleeding and death, over a long time. You must also use the smallest dose necessary to obtain relief from your fever, pain, or swelling. Can you overdose on ibuprofen? For adults, the maximum dose of ibuprofen is 800 milligrams (mg) per dose. It may be taken up to a maximum of four doses per day or a total of 3200 mg daily.
Only take as much as it takes to control the pain. Start out with 200 mg every 4 hours. If that works, stop. If it doesn't, take 400 mg. and see if that works. If you ha … ve to take more that 600 mg every 4 hours to control the pain, it's time to go to the doctor.   Good luck. 