Conjecture. A conjecture is a proposition that is unproven. Karl Popper pioneered the use of the term conjecture in scientific philosophy. Conjecture is contrasted by hypothesis, which is a testable statement based on accepted grounds. In mathematics, a conjecture is an unproven proposition that appears correct. conjecture (Verb). To guess; to venture an unproven idea. I do not know if it is true; I am simply conjecturing here. Origin: From coniectura, from coniectus, perfect passive participle of conicio, from con- + iacio; see jet.
(The noun conjecture refers to an opinion or idea that is not based on definite knowledge and is likely guessing. The verb means to state such an opinion) (noun) Conjectur … es about the newcomer were many and varied. His conjecture about the cause of the accident was unfounded. Goldbach's Conjecture is that every even number greater than two can be expressed as the sum of two prime numbers. For example, 4 = 2 + 2, 6 = 3 + 3, 8 = 5 + 3, 10 = 7 + … 3, 12 = 7 + 5, etc.
Patterns and conjecture. In mathematics, a conjecture is a mathematical statement which appears to be true, but has not been formally proven. A conjecture can be thought of as the mathematicians way of saying “I believe that this is true, but I have no proof yet”. A conjecture is a good guess or an idea about a pattern. For example, make a conjecture about the next number in the pattern. The terms increase by 4, then 5, and then 6
1. a hypothesis that has been formed by speculating or conjecturing (usually with little hard evidence). 2. a message expressing an opinion based on incomplete evidence. 3. reasoning that involves the formation of conclusions from incomplete evidence. Familiarity information: CONJECTURE used as a noun is uncommon. Nouns denoting cognitive processes and contents. Hypernyms (conjecture is a kind of...): abstract thought; logical thinking; reasoning (thinking that is coherent and logical). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of conjecture): theorisation; theorization (the production or use of theories).
A conjecture is an educated guess that is bases on known information. Example. If we are given information about the quantity and formation of section 1, 2 and 3 of stars our conjecture would be as follows. 
Wiktionary (1.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: conjecture (Noun). A statement or an idea which is unproven, but is thought to be true; a guess. I explained it, but it is pure conjecture whether he understood, or not. conjecture (Noun). A supposition based upon incomplete evidence; a hypothesis. The physicist used his conjecture about subatomic particles to design an experiment. conjecture (Verb). To guess; to venture an unproven idea. I do not know if it is true; I am simply conjecturing here. Origin: From coniectura, from coniectus, perfect passive participle of conicio, from con- + iacio; see jet.