It would take about 3 business days for it to get to Illinois. Say  you live in Portland, Oregon and your friend or family lives in  Springfield, Illinois they should be exp … ecting it in three business  days. + 1 other found this useful. Joel Johnson. First Class mail is delivered in three to five days.
Below is a list of approximate delivery times for First Class mail that is sent from Illinois (FL). 
Below is a list of approximate delivery times for First Class mail that is sent from Louisiana (FL). 
About 30 years later, in 1830, train travel in the U.S. was almost twice as fast (a huge improvement!), but still quite slow by modern standards. Rather than taking two weeks, going to Georgia or Ohio from New York City took one week, and in two you could get to the state borders of Louisiana, Arkansas and Illinois. If the latest map wasn’t a big enough step forward for you, take a look at this one from 1930. It now only takes two days to get across half the United states by train, and three to four days to get to the other coast from New York City.
I ordered a saddle online at saddleonline.com (really great prices) and I was wondering how long will it take it to get here in Missouri City, Texas shipping from Elk Grove Village, IL. The package is about 30lbs. THANKS. Update: It is ground shipmenet by UPS. 
You could now do in a day or two what used to take a couple weeks. With a week's travel you could get to the eastern border of Texas, and in about four weeks you could get to California. Only the Northwest took longer than a month to reach from New York City. If the latest map wasn’t a big enough step forward for you, take a look at this one from 1930. It now only takes two days to get across half the United states by train, and three to four days to get to the other coast
A mail letter to get delivered from california to nj will take 7 days.... 28. 0. The average time a package gets shipped from california to ny will be 7 days. If you are talking about express mail ny to ca then it will take 3 - 4 days. But in genral a mail letter to get delivered from california to nj will take 7 days by snail mail Allen Corner.
How long would it take a package shipped priority mail from anaheim california to lafayette louisiana. Priority mail should take 2 business days & would cost $4.95 to $13.95 depending on the package size. 
Timeframe. The United States Postal Services reports that as of January 2011, it takes an average of one to three days for First-Class Mail to arrive at its destination. Priority Mail takes an average of one to two days to arrive, according to the USPS. USPS only includes the time a package stays in transit in their estimations. Packages dropped off at a post office during business hours usually leave that day. Packages dropped off after hours may take an additional day