Many cnidarian species produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both. Cnidarians' activities are coordinated by a decentralized nerve net and simple receptors. Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts, and some have simple eyes. Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae, but some omit either the polyp or the medusa stage. Cnidarians were for a long time grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
Cnidarians are characterized by the presence of three tissue layers, an outer protective epidermis, a middle layer called the mesoglea, and an inner layer called the gastrodermis, whose function is primarily digestive. Cnidaria A phylum that comprises the sea anemones, jellyfish, and corals, and which is known from the late Precambrian. Cnidarians are basically radially symmetrical and have tentacles.
In some species, cnidocytes can also be used as anchors. Like sponges and ctenophores, cnidarians have two main layers of cells that sandwich a middle layer of jelly-like material, which is called the mesoglea in cnidarians; more complex animals have three main cell layers and no intermediate jelly-like layer. Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae, but some omit either the polyp or the medusa stage. Cnidarians were for a long time grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
In medusae the only supporting structure is the mesoglea. Hydra and most sea anemones close their mouths when they are not feeding, and the water in the digestive cavity then acts as a hydrostatic skeleton, rather like a water-filled balloon. Other polyps such as Tubularia use columns of water-filled cells for support. Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae, but some omit either the polyp or the medusa stage. Cnidarians were for a long time grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata, but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla.
There are about 10,000 species found in this phylum. The key characteristic features of cnidarians include radial symmetry, acoelomate body with tissues, lack of organs, and the simple digestive sac that opens through a mouth, which is surrounded by tentacles armed with nematocysts. All cnidarians are carnivores and have very simple body structures adapted as predators
Definition: Cnidaria is a classification phylum that includes corals, sea anemones, sea jellies (jellyfish), sea pens, and hydras. Animals in this phylum are referred to as cnidarians. Cnidarians exhibit radial symmetry and have tentacles with stinging structures called nematocysts. Pronunciation: Nid-air-ee-ah. Also Known As: Coelenterate, Coelenterata. Examples: Corals are classified in the phylum cnidaria. 
Cnidaria is one of the more primitive animal phyla. It includes aquatic organisms such as jellyfish, sea anemones, corals, and hydras. Most cnidarians are marine, although a few, such as the well-known hydra, are freshwater species. Cnidaria A phylum that comprises the sea anemones, jellyfish, and corals, and which is known from the late Precambrian. Cnidarians are basically radially symmetrical and have tentacles.
What is a Cnidarian? cnidarians, such as jelly fish, sea anemones, hydra, and corals, have tentacles surrounding their mouth. they are a hollow-bodied animal with two celled layers that are organized into tissues. the inner layer forms a digestive cavity where food is broken down. A jelly fish. An animal that exists in a mudusa or poylp state. ----------- A cnidarian is defined by the root of its name, cnida, which is Greek for stinging nettle. All cnidarians, therefore, have cnidocytes, which are the stinging, adhering, or entangling cells that allow them to eat, defend, or move.
Many cnidarian species produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids, or both. Cnidarians' activities are coordinated by a decentralized nerve net and simple receptors. 
Cnidaria. Cnidaria is a phylum of animals, which contains amazingly beautiful coral reefs, electrifying jellyfish, and many other interesting oceanic creatures. There are about 10,000 species of cnidarians and all of them are unique among all other organisms for the presence of the Cnidocytes. • Cnidaria and porifera are two different phyla. • Cnidarians have Cnidocytes but not the poriferans. • Cnidarians have well-organized organ systems but not the poriferans; on the other hand, poriferans have an efficient tunnel system made up of pores but not the cnidarians.