Sometimes stones can be felt in the bladder on physical exam.Some cats will develop cystitis with no apparent underlying cause. These cats will usually have a normal urinalysis or a urinalysis that shows blood in the urine, but no crystals and no evidence of a bacterial infection.
6. Most often, the cause of struvite crystals in cats is dry commercial pet foods. Due to the lack of moisture in the diet, the urine becomes too concentrated, and due to the use of plant-based ingredients in dry kibble, the urine becomes too alkaline.
1 When dogs and cats who are designed to eat meat are fed a grain-based diet or a starch-rich diet, the starch alkalizes urine pH, which can lead to the development of struvite crystals and stones. 2  Sometimes, surgery is required to remove stones in the urethra, ureters or bladder.
Today, I’d like to discuss struvite stones and crystals. Struvite stones are a type of bladder stone that occurs in both dogs and cats. They’re also called triple phosphate and magnesium ammonium phosphate stones. Magnesium, ammonia, and phosphate are common elements in urine.
Scroll to the bottom to watch the video. 1. Struvite crystals are also referred to as triple phosphate (magnesium ammonium phosphate), and when several crystals join together to form stones, they can become life-threatening to the cat. These stones can range in shape and size, and when they block the urinary tract, they can quickly lead to kidney failure.
Description : Common crystals seen even in healthy patients include calcium oxalate, triple phosphate crystals and amorphous phosphates. The crystals shown above are typical triple phosphate crystals, found in feline and canine urine, and are classically described as rectangular coffin lid shape. They are also called magnesium ammonium phosphate or struvite crystals and are typically found in alkaline urine. In fact the name triple phosphate originates from an old erroneous belief that the phosphate ion was bound to 3 positive ions instead of just magnesium and ammonium.
The cause of struvite crystals in cats is most often the result of eating dry cat food. Due to the lack of moisture in the diet, the urine becomes too concentrated and highly alkaline. A balanced raw meat diet should help to resolve the problem and help eliminate the occurence of struvite crystals in the urine.