Sedimentary rocks can also be formed when minerals are dissolved in  water and are then resolidified. This type of sedimentary rock is  called a chemical sedimentary rock. Oolitic limestone is a good  example of this type of sedimentary rock. 1 person found this useful. A sedimentary rock is one made up of particles of minerals that have settled out of water or wind in layers that have been subsequently lithified. Think of mud settling at the bottom of a lake, this is a sedimentary deposit.
Most sedimentary rocks contain either quartz (especially siliciclastic rocks) or calcite (especially carbonate rocks). In contrast to igneous and metamorphic rocks, a sedimentary rock usually contains very few different major minerals. Minerals in a sedimentary rock can have formed by precipitation during sedimentation or by diagenesis. In the second case, the mineral precipitate can have grown over an older generation of cement. A complex diagenetic history can be studied by optical mineralogy, using a petrographic microscope.
Sedimentary rocks can also be formed when minerals are dissolved in  water and are then resolidified. This type of sedimentary rock is  called a chemical sedimentary rock. Oolitic limestone is a good  example of this type of sedimentary rock. There is a group of sedimentary rocks called evaporites that include crystals of salt, gypsum, sylvite, glauberite, thenardite, mirabilite and a few others. However, there is a tremendous variety of other minerals that can produce crystals in sedimentary rocks.
Sedimentary rocks form from sediment. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together
Any rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) exposed at the Earth's surface can become a sedimentary rock. The forces of wind, rain, snow, and ice combine to break down or dissolve (weather), and carry away (transport) rocks exposed at the surface. 
Clastic sedimentary rocks are made of pieces of rock or mineral grains that have been broken from preexisting rock. These particles and grains have become solid rock by the processes of compaction or cementation of sediments. Recrystallization is the third way that sedimentary rocks are formed. Recrystallization is the formation of new mineral grains that are larger than the original grains. As the sediments recrystallize they arrange themselves in a series of interlocking crystals that connect the other grains together into a solid rock.
Examples of non-clastic or chemical sedimentary rocks are rock gypsum and rock salt. sedimentary rock is a rock formed when small pieces of rock ,or sedimt together. A sedimentary rock is one made up of particles of minerals that have settled out of water or wind in layers that have been subsequently lithified. There is a group of sedimentary rocks called evaporites that include crystals of salt, gypsum, sylvite, glauberite, thenardite, mirabilite and a few others. However, there is a tremendous variety of other minerals that can produce crystals in sedimentary rocks.
Metamorphic rocks can have crystals and minerals both from the initial rocks, and new minerals resulting from the metamorphosis process. However, some minerals are clear indicators of a metamorphic process. Among these, the most usual ones are: garnet, chlorite and kyanite. The short story is this: 1  Igneous; they form from the cooling of magma deep inside the earth. 2  They often have large crystals (you can see then with the naked eye). 3  Metamorphic; they are formed through the change (metamorphosis) of igneous and sedimentary rocks. 4  They can form both underground and at the surface.