Mars has landed 5 number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100 since his career launched in 2010, faster than any male singer since Elvis Presley. In total, he has had six number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. Mars is known for his stage performances and retro showmanship. He is accompanied by his band, The Hooligans, which besides playing a variety of instruments such as electric guitar, bass, piano, keyboards, drums and horns, also serves as dancers and background singers. Mars said Your last name's Hernandez, maybe you should do the Latin music, this Spanish music... Enrique [Iglesias] is so hot right now”. Nevertheless, Mars used his childhood nickname Bruno and changed his surname to Mars, in an effort to “avoid being stereotyped”.
I was wondering if anyone here knew the names of every person in Bruno Mars' band? I am an avid knitter and I wanted to knit a hat for everyone with their names stitched in the hat ((and hopefully be able to hand it to them at a concert)) thanks! START A DISCUSSION. Login or Register to post comments.
He was born as Peter Gene Hernandez. Bruno Mars is his stage name. His father nicknamed him Bruno as a child, because of his resemblance to the chubby wrestler Bruno Sammart … ino. He claims that the Mars came out of nowhere; or maybe he's just out of this world. No Bruno Mars' real name is:Peter Gene Hernandez. + 36 others found this useful. Sharon Heitz. Edit. Share to: 1  Flat Screen TVs: LED and LCD There's a common misunderstanding when it comes to LED and LCD TVs.
Bruno Mars was born Peter Gene Hernandez on October 8, 1985, in Honolulu, Hawaii, and was raised in the Waikiki neighborhood of Honolulu. He is the son of Peter Hernandez and Bernadette Bernie San Pedro Bayot (b. August 14, 1957, Manila, d. June 1, 2013, Honolulu). Mars said Your last name's Hernandez, maybe you should do the Latin music, this Spanish music... Enrique [Iglesias] is so hot right now”. Nevertheless, Mars used his childhood nickname Bruno and changed his surname to Mars, in an effort to “avoid being stereotyped”.
his favorite wrestler was named Bruno and his favorite planet was mars Bruno's real name is Peter Gene Hernandez, and was nicknamed Bruno by his father for his resemblance o … f wrestler Bruno Sammartino, this is how he got his first name. No Bruno Mars' real name is:Peter Gene Hernandez. + 36 others found this useful. Sharon Heitz. Edit. Share to: 1  Flat Screen TVs: LED and LCD There's a common misunderstanding when it comes to LED and LCD TVs.
Victor Moon. Bruno Mars introduced a new member of his band Saturday at the Make it Right Gala in New Orleans, Well, Brad Pitt was only a member for the night when he took the stage for a fun jam session with Bruno Mars during his performance. Bruno introduced Brad to the crowd, and he received a warm welcome from the audience at the Gala. Pitt showed off his musical talent by shaking his tambourine while Mars performed his hit single “Sex Machine.”.
He is known for his work as bass guitarist for pop star Bruno Mars and winning P. Diddy's MTV Making His Band in 2009, he appears in Bruno Mars music video  Locked Out Of Heaven . 
They're Peter Hernandez's, a.k.a. Bruno Mars's sisters, and they appear to be angling for the storied position of Kardashian 2.0.. OK, they're not quite as vocationally useless as Kourtney, Khloe and Kim: they, like their brother, are in the music biz. 
There’s no denying that Bruno Mars is one of the hottest names in music right now but in a new interview with GQ magazine, the 27-year-old confesses that it might not have been that way if he had pursued his music career with the name he was born with: Peter Hernandez. hernández The interview reveals that Mars – whose four sisters are also involved in music as members of a girl’s band called “The Lylas” – is an art fan and loves poker. RELATED: Watch video from Bruno Mars’s GQ cover shoot.
Peter Hernandez got his stage name, Bruno Mars because by the age  of 2, he was very chubby and at the time, there was a chubby  wrestler named Bruno Sammartino, so his da … d nicknamed him that. As  for his last name, he said the girls said he was so out of this  world. + 43 others found this useful. No Bruno Mars' real name is:Peter Gene Hernandez. + 36 others found this useful. Sharon Heitz. Edit. Share to: 1  Flat Screen TVs: LED and LCD There's a common misunderstanding when it comes to LED and LCD TVs.