Candle the eggs after 7 to 10 days. Candling the eggs is when you use a light source to view how much space the embryo occupies within an egg. After 7 to 10 days, you should see development of the embryo. Candling allows you to remove eggs with embryos that are not viable. 8. Adjust the humidity levels in the incubator. Humidity should be around 45 to 50 percent throughout incubation, except during the last three days when you will want to raise it to 65 percent. You may need higher or lower humidity levels depending on the type of eggs you wish to hatch.
Candle the eggs after 7 to 10 days. Candling the eggs is when you use a light source to view how much space the embryo occupies within an egg. After 7 to 10 days, you should see development of the embryo. Candling allows you to remove eggs with embryos that are not viable. 
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days. 8. Adjust the humidity levels in the incubator. Humidity should be around 45 to 50 percent throughout incubation, except during the last three days when you will want to raise it to 65 percent. You may need higher or lower humidity levels depending on the type of eggs you wish to hatch.
Uploaded on Sep 7, 2010. Here is a neat and easy project on how to make a chicken egg incubator. Doesn't take long to make. The eggs will hatch in 21 days. I give you all the guidelines for successfully incubating the chickens including what to do and how to make the incubator. About My Channel: I have hundreds of videos covering all kinds of creative projects.
Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
Chicken eggs normally incubate for about 21 days before they hatch. got it from a website below. Source(s): http://mail.youaskandy.com/questions-answers/34-ask-andy-1980/8317-how-long-does-it-take-a-chicken-egg-to-hatch-in-an-incubator-.html. Unknown · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. 
Report Abuse. The rooster does not sit on the eggs. He needs to be taken out before the eggs hatch, he can kill the chicks. Chicken eggs take 21 days to hatch, it doesnt matter if its under the hen or in a incubator. A hen will sit on her eggs most of the day, only getting up to eat and drink. Akasha · 8 years ago. Thumbs up
It takes 21 days on average for an egg to hatch once incubation begins. Before placing the eggs inside, turn on the heat source and measure the temperature and humidity over a 24-hour period, making adjustments as necessary to create the optimal environment. 