Replication: Mechanism of Replication (Basic). Knowing the structure of DNA, scientists speculated and then proved that DNA is the template for copying the genetic code. See how information in DNA is copied to make new DNA molecules. Duration: 1 minutes, 5 seconds
DNA replication is the process of producing two identical replicas from one original DNA molecule. This biological process occurs in all living organisms and is the basis for biological inheritance. DNA usually exists as a double-stranded structure, with both strands coiled together to form the characteristic double-helix. Each single strand of DNA is a chain of four types of nucleotides. Nucleotides in DNA contain a deoxyribose sugar, a phosphate, and a nucleobase.
Copying occurs at a localized region called the replication fork, which is a Y shaped structure where new DNA strands are synthesised by a multi-enzyme complex. Here the DNA to be copied enters the complex from the left. One new strand is leaving at the top of frame and the other new strand is leaving at bottom. The first step in DNA replication is the separation of the two strands by an enzyme called helicase. The other half of the DNA double helix, known as the lagging strand, has the opposite 3' to 5' orientation and consequently requires a more complicated copying mechanism. As it emerges from the helicase, the lagging strand is organised into sections called Okazaki fragments.
Watson and Crick first reasoned that complementary base pairing provides the basis of fidelity in DNA replication; that is, that each base in the template strand dictates the complementary base in the new strand. The 3′ → 5′ exonuclease action of DNA polymerase III. Note that this exonuclease activity takes place at the 3′ end of the growing strand (and is therefore 3′ → 5′). The coordination of exonuclease activity with strand growth helps to explain why replication is in the 5′ → 3′ direction.
7.4.3. Replication Requires a Template. Fig. 7-5 Semiconservative replication using a template. In the replication process, while the original strands are unwound, new nucleotides are added to form pairs with the bases of the original strand (Fig. 7-5). This figure shows the DNA double helix model published by Watson and Crick in 1953, which suggested the possibility that DNA was replicated using a template. Fig. 7-6 Discontinuous replication of lagging strand. When the daughter strand is synthesized with the two parent strands unwound, the double-stranded DNA appears to be triple stranded, with this region referred to as a replication fork (Fig. 7-6).
Eukaryotic DNA replication is a conserved mechanism that restricts DNA replication to only once per cell cycle. Eukaryotic DNA replication of chromosomal DNA is central for the duplication of a cell and is necessary for the maintenance of the eukaryotic genome. DNA replication is the action of DNA polymerases synthesizing a DNA strand complementary to the original template strand. To synthesize DNA, the double-stranded DNA is unwound by DNA helicases ahead of polymerases, forming a replication fork containing two single-stranded templates. Replication processes permit the copying of a single DNA double helix into two DNA helices, which are divided into the daughter cells at mitosis.
DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication. Cellular proofreading and error-checking mechanisms ensure near perfect fidelity for DNA replication. DNA usually exists as a double-stranded structure, with both strands coiled together to form the characteristic double-helix. Each single strand of DNA is a chain of four types of nucleotides. Nucleotides in DNA contain a deoxyribose sugar, a phosphate, and a nucleobase.
The looping of the template for the lagging strand enables a dimeric DNA polymerase III holoenzyme at the replication fork to synthesize both daughter strands. (Courtesy of A. Kornberg. From L. Stryer, Biochemistry, 4th ed. The 3′ → 5′ exonuclease action of DNA polymerase III. Note that this exonuclease activity takes place at the 3′ end of the growing strand (and is therefore 3′ → 5′). The coordination of exonuclease activity with strand growth helps to explain why replication is in the 5′ → 3′ direction.
Replication: Mechanism of Replication (Basic). Transcript: Using computer animation based on molecular research, we are now able to see how DNA is actually Using computer animation based on molecular research, we are now able to see how DNA is actually copied in living cells. Knowing the structure of DNA, scientists speculated and then proved that DNA is the template for copying the genetic code. See how information in DNA is copied to make new DNA molecules.
Unwinding of DNA at the origin and synthesis of new strands results in replication forks growing bidirectional from the origin. A number of proteins are associated with the replication fork which helps in terms of the initiation and continuation of DNA synthesis. DNA usually exists as a double-stranded structure, with both strands coiled together to form the characteristic double-helix. Each single strand of DNA is a chain of four types of nucleotides. Nucleotides in DNA contain a deoxyribose sugar, a phosphate, and a nucleobase.