Digital signal processing (DSP) refers to various techniques for improving the accuracy and reliability of digital communications. The theory behind DSP is quite complex. Basically, DSP works by clarifying, or standardizing, the levels or states of a digital signal. 
Matrix: This DSP mode actually slows down time and allows you to walk on the ceiling... Well, not quite. Actually it takes some of the stereo-only content of the main channels and accentuates the overall sound field by placing that content (with delay) into the surrounds. Incidentally, AFDM is simply a software embedded identification signal (or flag) that will automatically trigger 6.1 channel mode using the surround back speakers for content that is encoded in THX Surround EX or DTS-ES. (When auto-detect is engaged, only 5.1 will be used if the AFDM signal is not detected.).
See also: Digital signal processing. A digital signal processor chip found in a guitar effects unit. A digital signal processor (DSP) is a specialized microprocessor (or a SIP block), with its architecture optimized for the operational needs of digital signal processing. The goal of DSPs is usually to measure, filter and/or compress continuous real-world analog signals. The architecture of a digital signal processor is optimized specifically for digital signal processing. Most also support some of the features as an applications processor or microcontroller, since signal processing is rarely the only task of a system.
CinemaDSP is a series of DSP modes provided by Yamaha for DVD movie playback. It includes, Adventure, General, Sci-Fi, etc... In addition to that there are room DSP modes that mimic certain venues and such. It's all very cool in its own way. Are you saying that Yamaha's Cinema DSP is a blanket term they use to encompass ALL of their DSP modes, like Sci-Fi, Adventure, Rock, Hall, etc? I know DSP modes are meant to simulate a certain venue by mimicking the characteristics of that venue.
The DSP modes are usually the receiver's own surround moves. Dolby Pro Logic is from Dolby labs. I tend to use Dolby Pro Logic II when I want to matrix a stereo signal. I'm not a huge fan of DSP's from receivers. There are two types of surround processing in your receiver: ambience extraction modes (DTS Neo:6, Dolby Pro Logic II or II x) and ambience generating modes (Hall, Club, Stadium, etc).
Party On, Wayne! One of the most practical and fun DSP modes that exists in nearly every AV receiver is the 7-channel Stereo or All-Channel Stereo mode that sends a stereo signal to every pair of amps in your receiver (and often a summed mono signal to your center channel as well). The result is a lot of sound in your theater. Using surround sound modes properly is something I don’t see a lot of people doing most of the time. In fact, most of the time I see people using whatever surround mode happens to be engaged on the receiver.
And the definition of Cinema DSP, again, according to my manual, is the following: Since the Dolby Surround and DTS systems were originally designed for use in movie theatres, their effect is best felt in a theatre having many speakers and designed for acoustic effects. Are you saying that Yamaha's Cinema DSP is a blanket term they use to encompass ALL of their DSP modes, like Sci-Fi, Adventure, Rock, Hall, etc? I know DSP modes are meant to simulate a certain venue by mimicking the characteristics of that venue.
Fancier DSP Modes for the More Experimental Among Us. I’m not a DSP-hater. I think they can be pretty cool, particularly when you aren’t using really expensive speakers. Taking your stereo CDs and aging them back through Dolby Pro Logic II or IIx, for example, can give them new life. Using surround sound modes properly is something I don’t see a lot of people doing most of the time. In fact, most of the time I see people using whatever surround mode happens to be engaged on the receiver.
Denon may not be known for their DSP modes, but they should be known for their DSP customization capability. There are too many configurations to list here, but Denon allows some pretty precise adjustments to its DSP. Incidentally, AFDM is simply a software embedded identification signal (or flag) that will automatically trigger 6.1 channel mode using the surround back speakers for content that is encoded in THX Surround EX or DTS-ES. (When auto-detect is engaged, only 5.1 will be used if the AFDM signal is not detected.).