Bacteria were among the first life forms to appear on Earth, and are present in most of its habitats. Bacteria inhabit soil, water, acidic hot springs, radioactive waste, and the deep portions of Earth's crust. Bacteria also live in symbiotic and parasitic relationships with plants and animals. Bacteria (/baekˈtɪəriə/ ; bækˈtɪəriə: singular) bacterium constitute a large domain of prokaryotic. Microorganisms typically a few micrometres in, length bacteria have a number of, shapes ranging from spheres to rods and. Spirals bacteria were among the first life forms to appear On, earth and are present in most of its. habitats
Evidence suggests that life first evolved around 3.5 billion years ago. This evidence takes the form of microfossils (fossils too small to be seen without the aid of a microscope) and ancient rock structures in South Africa and Australia called stromatolites. 
How long ago did the first living forms appear on earth? the earliest known life form were single celled organisms which roamed the earth they appeared around two billion years ago Answer: The Earth formed about 4.5 billion years … ago. 700 million years later (3.8 to 3.5 billion years age) life started. 5 people found this useful.
The ancestors of modern bacteria were unicellular microorganisms that were the first forms of life to appear on Earth, about 4 billion years ago. For about 3 billion years, most organisms were microscopic, and bacteria and archaea were the dominant forms of life. Bacteria (/baekˈtɪəriə/ ; bækˈtɪəriə: singular) bacterium constitute a large domain of prokaryotic. Microorganisms typically a few micrometres in, length bacteria have a number of, shapes ranging from spheres to rods and. Spirals bacteria were among the first life forms to appear On, earth and are present in most of its. habitats
Throughout the Proterozoic era, from about 2.3 billion years ago until around 575 million years ago, life on Earth was mostly single-celled and small. Earth's biota consisted of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotic algae. Food webs began to develop, with amoebas feeding on bacteria and algae. The first eukaryotic cells evolved sometime between 1.7 and 2.5 billion years ago, perhaps coincident with the rise in atmospheric oxygen around 2.3 billion years ago. As the atmosphere and the oceans became increasingly oxygenated, organisms that used oxygen spread and eventually came to dominate Earth's biosphere.
Best Answer: This contiguous region of spacetime, the universe, appeared from vacuum energy about 13.7 billion years ago. The solar nebula condensed into a central star and a planetary system about 5 billion years ago. Earth's first atmosphere was composed of small molecules of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen.
How Did Life First Appear. The fact that life began on earth is just a natural consequence of the known fundamental laws of chemistry and physics. Life was inevitable, once certain conditions prevailed. 
The origin of the eukaryotes--the kingdom of life that includes all of the higher plants and animals, including ourselves--took place in the heavily obscured early history of the earth. Consequently, there is still much speculation involved in answering this question. 
The first dinosaur's appeared on earth at about 230 million years ago. the first dinosaur was called Eoraptorc, found in Argentina and Brazil. It was a small meat eating creat … ure. Scientist think there may be older dinosaurs out there. 5 people found this useful. 6 billion years ago No, the Earth is only 4.6 billion years old. Amphibians appeared on Earth during the late Devonian period in the Paleozoic Era about 365 million years ago … . Hope that helps!