Gelatin is just a processed version of a structural protein called collagen that is found in many animals, including humans. Collagen actually makes up almost a third of all the protein in the human body. It is a big, fibrous molecule that makes skin, bones, and tendons both strong and somewhat elastic. 
Gelatin is a known promotor of skin health. Gelatin provides glycine and proline, two amino acids that are used in the production of collagen. Collagen is one of the primary structural elements of skin, so providing the building blocks for this important protein can ensure that your body is able to create enough of it. The traditional way to get gelatin is from skin, gelatinous meats, and bone broths. Those who eat a Paleo or ancestral diet can easily include these foods, but vegetarians will find it difficult to get gelatin from a largely plant-based diet.
Overview. Gelatin is an extract from the protein collagen found in the connective tissue of animals. Other than just being used in jellied desserts, you can find gelatin in many food including candies, desserts, cheese, processed meats, beverages, protein supplements and gel capsules. What You Should Know About Gelatin (2/11). All gelatin is derived from the connective tissue of animals. Sources include crushed bones and skins from cattle, pigs and fish. These sources are treated to isolate the collagen protein and break it into pieces, a chemical process called hydrolysis.
Gelatin is LIKELY SAFE for most people in food amounts and POSSIBLY SAFE in the larger amounts used as medicine. There's some evidence that gelatin in doses up to 10 grams daily can be safely used for up to 6 months. Gelatin is used for weight loss and for treating osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and brittle bones (osteoporosis). Some people also use it for strengthening bones, joints, and fingernails. Gelatin is also used for improving hair quality and to shorten recovery after exercise and sports-related injury.
It seems, then, that gelatin itself isn’t bad for you–but that doesn’t mean that the stuff it’s found in is a freebie. Candies, desserts, and other items made with gelatin often also contain dangerous preservatives, food dyes, and other ingredients that you probably don’t need to be putting in your body. Rendered from the by-products of the livestock industry, gelatin is mostly made from collagen harvested from skins and hides (from cows and pigs), as well as bones. Which is, I think, strangely worse.
Gelatin is the purified protein derived by the selective hydrolysis of collagen from the skin, the connective tissue and or bones of animals. Great Lakes Gelatin provies you with the highest types of pure unflavored edible gelatins. It is available in type A (porcine), or type B (Bovine or Bone). The best way to get lots of natural gelatin into your diet is to make bone broths and incorporate them into your diet on a frequent basis with sauces and soups. If you don’t consume bone broths either alone or as part of soups and sauces nearly everyday, however, you may wish to consider a natural gelatin supplement.
GELATIN Overview Information. Gelatin is a protein made from animal products. Gelatin is used for weight loss and for treating osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and brittle bones (osteoporosis). Some people also use it for strengthening bones, joints, and fingernails. Gelatin is also used for improving hair quality and to shorten recovery after exercise and sports-related injury.
For the dessert food, see Gelatin dessert. 'Sheet' or 'leaf' gelatin for cooking. Gelatin or gelatine (from Latin: gelatus meaning stiff, frozen) is a translucent, colourless, brittle (when dry), flavourless foodstuff, derived from collagen obtained from various animal by-products. It is commonly used as a gelling agent in food, pharmaceuticals, photography, and cosmetic manufacturing. On a commercial scale, gelatin is made from by-products of the meat and leather industry. Recently, fish by-products have also been considered because they eliminate some of the religious obstacles surrounding gelatin consumption. Gelatin is derived from pork skins, pork, horses, and cattle bones, or split cattle hides.