El Salvador is located in CENTRAL AMERICA. It's neightboring countries are as follows:   North: Honduras   South: Pacific ocean   East: Nicaragua   West: Gua … temala   El Salvador is in Central America, it borders Guatemala and Honduras. El Salvador means the savior. So when the Spanish conquered this area of land they dedicated it to Christ the savior. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  An Overview of the Volcanoes of El Salvador El Salvador is the smallest country in Central America. 2  Despite its size, El Salvador is also the most densely populated country in Central America
The culture of El Salvador is similar to other countries in Latin America, and more specifically to other countries in Central America. 
Best Answer: Seven continents in the world. One of those continents is North America. There are 23 countries in the North American continent, including El Salvador. Many people erroneously associate El Salvador with South America, or state it as being a part of the (non-existent) Central American Continent. The only difference is that El Salvador is on the central and USA in the north... People don't be confuse America is the whole continent and central America is a part of the American continent Ey why do u say North America is a continent??
America-at the north-starts with Canada, then USA, then comes Mexico. Then Central America starts with Guatemala and Belize, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica and Panama. Then the rest of the map down is called South America, the part of the American continent that ends with Argentina and Chile. The only difference is that El Salvador is on the central and USA in the north... People don't be confuse America is the whole continent and central America is a part of the American continent Ey why do u say North America is a continent??
~ Captain Obvious. El Humidor is a small region of harmless anarchy in Central America. El Humidor is colloquially known as El Salvador (short for El Salvatruchidor). This roughly translates into English as The Salvador, a reference to the country's first emperor, Sal Mara, who took after The Chad from Scrubs.
edit Geography. El Salvador is in Central America, nestled between Guatemala, Honduras, and Mordor. (And you thought your neighbors were lowering the property values!) It comprises 12 square miles of jungle, infertile mountainside, and river valleys. El Humidor is colloquially known as El Salvador (short for El Salvatruchidor). This roughly translates into English as The Salvador, a reference to the country's first emperor, Sal Mara, who took after The Chad from Scrubs.
El Salvador, along with the rest of Central America, is one of the most seismologically active regions on earth, situated atop three of the large tectonic plates that constitute the Earth's surface. The motion of these plates causes the area's earthquake and volcanic activity. El Salvador is the smallest Central American country and is the only one without a coastline on the Caribbean sea.
This is slightly smaller than the U.S. state of Massachusetts. El Salvador has 590 km of borders, including 391 km of borders with Honduras and 199 km with Guatemala. El Salvador is the smallest Central American country and is the only one without a coastline on the Caribbean sea.
El Salvador. Located on the Pacific coast between Guatemala and Honduras, El Salvador is the smallest and most densely populated country in Central America. El Salvador experiences frequent earthquakes and volcanic activity, making it known as the “land of volcanoes.”. 1  Population: 6,297,400. 2  Life Expectancy: 72 years.