Mechanical Waves are waves which propagate through a material medium (solid, liquid, or gas) at a wave speed which depends on the elastic and inertial properties of that medium. There are two basic types of wave motion for mechanical waves: longitudinal waves and transverse waves. The animations below demonstrate both types of wave and illustrate the difference between the motion of the wave and the motion of the particles in the medium through which the wave is travelling. 
The main difference between transverse and longitudinal waves is that in transverse waves, oscillations occur perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the wave, whereas in longitudinal waves, oscillations occur parallel to the direction of propagation of the wave. 
Longitudinal waves don't with a high speed as their speed is 330 m/s in air whereas Transverse wave travel with a very high speed of 3 * 10^8 m/s. Similarities between longitudinal wave and transverse wave 1) They travel in a medium with constant speed which is different in different media. In longitudinal wave there is a pressure variation in the medium whereas in transverse waves there is no pressure variation in the medium. In longitudinal waves the waves move in the medium by compression and rarefaction whereas in transverse waves the waves move by forming crests and troughs.
Longitudinal waves don't with a high speed as their speed is 330 m/s in air whereas Transverse wave travel with a very high speed of 3 * 10^8 m/s. Similarities between longitudinal wave and transverse wave 1) They travel in a medium with constant speed which is different in different media. In longitudinal waves the waves move in the medium by compression and rarefaction whereas in transverse waves the waves move by forming crests and troughs. Longitudinal waves require a material medium for its propagation whereas Transverse waves travel without a medium.
Difference between Longitudinal waves and Transverse waves In longitudinal waves the particle vibrates along the direction of propagation of wave whereas in transverse wave … the particles vibrate perpendicular along the direction of propagation of wave. In longitudinal waves the waves move in the medium by compression and rarefaction whereas in transverse waves the waves move by forming crests and troughs. Longitudinal waves require a material medium for its propagation whereas Transverse waves travel without a medium.
Particles in transverse waves vibrate perpendicular to the direction of the wave and those in longitudinal waves vibrate parallel to the direction of the wave.   Light wave … s are transverse waves while sound waves are longitudinal. In longitudinal wave there is a pressure variation in the medium whereas in transverse waves there is no pressure variation in the medium. In longitudinal waves the waves move in the medium by compression and rarefaction whereas in transverse waves the waves move by forming crests and troughs.
Transverse Wave s. A transverse wave is a wave in which the motion of the medium is a right angles to the direction of the wave. A wave on a rope is a transverse wave. Light and other electromagnetic waves are also transverse waves. Longitudinal Waves. In a longitudinal wave, the motion of the medium is parallel to the direction of the wave. This means that the particles move left and right which in turn makes the other particles start to oscillate. Sound waves are longitudinal
Transverse waves and longitudinal waves are the two main types of wave propagation. These two concepts are extremely important and are particularly useful in explaining many phenomena related to wave mechanics. • Transverse waves create oscillations that are normal to the direction of propagation, but the longitudinal waves create oscillations that are parallel to the propagation of the wave.
Particles in transverse waves vibrate perpendicular to the direction of the wave and those in longitudinal waves vibrate parallel to the direction of the wave.   Light wave … s are transverse waves while sound waves are longitudinal. In longitudinal waves the waves move in the medium by compression and rarefaction whereas in transverse waves the waves move by forming crests and troughs. Longitudinal waves require a material medium for its propagation whereas Transverse waves travel without a medium.