Mausi is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Mau-si. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Mausi Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Mausi has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Mausi to other names.
Mausi in Nautical Flags. Naming a child in the Native American culture is a sacred event only to be performed by the wisest in the group, the elders. Because of the level of ritual that it is given, Native American names are considered especially significant and powerful. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Mausi Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Mausi has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Mausi to other names.
1 Mausi Maa Temple: The Mausi Maa temple is situated the mid-way of the Bada danda (Grand road) of Puri. 2  It is a small temple dedicated to Goddess Ardhashini. 3  As per Jagannath. 4  Shabnam Mausi: Shabnam  Mausi  Bano (शबनम मौसी) ( Mausi  noun. 1 It is a small temple dedicated to Goddess Ardhashini. 2  As per Jagannath. 3  Shabnam Mausi: Shabnam  Mausi  Bano (शबनम मौसी) ( Mausi  noun. 4  Hindi - Aunty) is the first transgender Indian or Hijra to be elected to public office.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Mausi in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Mausi in Nautical Flags page. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Mausi Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Mausi has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Mausi to other names.
[ 2 syll. mau-si, ma-usi ] The baby girl name Mausi is pronounced as M AO-Siy-or M-OW Siy- †. Mausi is derived from Native American-Hopi and Native American origins. From Native American roots, its meaning is plucking flowers. Mausi is a form of the English name Mansi. The names Mausee, Mausie, and Mausy are forms of Mausi. Mausi is infrequently used as a baby name for girls. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names.