Origins of the Words Jew and Judaism. The original name for the people we now call Jews was Hebrews. The word Hebrew (in Hebrew, Ivri) is first used in the Torah to describe Abraham (Gen. 14:13). The word is apparently derived from the name Eber, one of Abraham's ancestors. The word Jew (in Hebrew, Yehudi) is derived from the name Judah, which was the name of one of Jacob's twelve sons. Judah was the ancestor of one of the tribes of Israel, which was named after him. Likewise, the word Judaism literally means Judah-ism, that is, the religion of the Yehudim
Judaism is largely defined by the first five books of the Bible, which Moses is often credited with having written, presumably with divine guidance. Moses is also credited with leading the Israelites out of Egypt and with receiving the commandments from God. To some, this is the origin of Judaism. The tradition of the Jewish people, and the Torah Sages and Talmud,  is that Abraham founded Judaism. He lived 3800 years ago. This  tradition is implicit in many passages i … n the prophets (e.g. Isaiah  41:8) and the Talmud (e.g. Yoma 28b) and is borne out by a reading  of Genesis.
The origins of Judaism lie in the Bronze Age polytheistic Ancient Semitic religions, specifically Canaanite religion, a syncretization with elements of Babylonian religion and of the worship of Yahweh reflected in the early prophetic books of the Hebrew Bible. The text of the Hebrew Bible was redacted into its extant form in this period and possibly also canonized as well. Rabbinic Judaism developed during Late Antiquity, during the 3rd to 6th centuries CE; the Masoretic Text of the Hebrew Bible and the Talmud were compiled in this period.
The people of Israel (also called the Jewish People) trace their origin to Abraham, who established the belief that there is only one God, the creator of the universe (see Torah). Abraham, his son Yitshak (Isaac), and grandson Jacob (Israel), are referred to as the patriarchs of the Israelites. The name Jew derives from Yehuda (Judah) one of the 12 sons of Jacob (Reuben, Shimon, Levi, Yehuda, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, Asher, Yisachar, Zevulun, Yosef, Binyamin)(Exodus 1:1). So, the names Israel, Israeli or Jewish refer to people of the same origin.
Biblical tradition says that Abraham was the first in his line to worship God. A midrash of the common era says that Abraham realised that the idols of the gods of his father had no power and so sought the real God. To some, this is the origin of Judaism. The tradition of the Jewish people, and the Torah Sages and Talmud,  is that Abraham founded Judaism. He lived 3800 years ago. This  tradition is implicit in many passages i … n the prophets (e.g. Isaiah  41:8) and the Talmud (e.g. Yoma 28b) and is borne out by a reading  of Genesis.
Orthodox Judaism maintains that the Torah and Jewish law are divine in origin, eternal and unalterable, and that they should be strictly followed. According to Rabbinic Judaism, a Jew is anyone who was either born of a Jewish mother or who converted to Judaism in accordance with Jewish Law. American Reform Judaism and British Liberal Judaism accept the child of one Jewish parent (father or mother) as Jewish if the parents raise the child with a Jewish identity.
Judaism (from Latin: Iudaismus, derived from Greek ἰουδαϊσμός, originally from Hebrew יהודה, Yehudah,  Judah ; in Hebrew: יהדות, Yahadut, the distinctive characteristics of the Judean ethnos) encompasses the religion, philosophy, culture and way of life of the Jewish people. According to Rabbinic Judaism, a Jew is anyone who was either born of a Jewish mother or who converted to Judaism in accordance with Jewish Law. American Reform Judaism and British Liberal Judaism accept the child of one Jewish parent (father or mother) as Jewish if the parents raise the child with a Jewish identity.