Becoming a knight was a tradition that changed over the centuries of the middle ages and by around the sixteenth century, with the advent of gunpowder and firearms, had pretty much become just a symbolic title. During the actual knighting ceremony the knight would swear allegiance to God and to his lord and he would receive presents such as a sword, a pair of spurs, armor, and a cloak. At the end of the ceremony the king would tap the squire on the shoulders with the flat of a sword blade and he would become a knight.
Contrary to popular belief, the king did not usually train boys to become knights. This was the responsibility of the king’s lords, barons and knights. Each of these men held stations, titles, lands and manors of his own. During the actual knighting ceremony the knight would swear allegiance to God and to his lord and he would receive presents such as a sword, a pair of spurs, armor, and a cloak. At the end of the ceremony the king would tap the squire on the shoulders with the flat of a sword blade and he would become a knight.
Knights in training [edit]. The most common definition of “squire” refers to the Middle Ages. A squire was typically a teenaged boy, training to become a knight. A boy became a squire at the age of 14 or 15. Squires were the second step to becoming a knight, after first having served as a page. Boys served a knight as an attendant or shield carrier, doing simple but important tasks such as saddling a horse or caring for the knight’s weapons and armour
A boy started training to become a knight at age of 7-14 and became a Page 14-21. After that he became a Squire which is an apprentice to a Knight. Eventually the Squire might … be dubbed a knight by a King or the Knight who trained him after praying and standing vigil for an extended period. 7 people found this useful. Before they can become a knight, they must first be a page at age … 8, a squire at age 15 or 16, and finally be deemed a knight if worthy. Usually only noble families have this opportunity.
Squire. Around the age of fifteen, the page would become a squire. As a squire, the young man would have a new set of tasks. He would take care of the knight's horses, clean his armor and weapons, and accompany the knight to the battlefield. There were two ways that a man could become a knight during the Middle Ages. The first was earning the right on the battlefield. If a soldier fought particularly bravely during a battle or war, he may be awarded knighthood by the king, a lord, or even another knight
Becoming a Knight interesting Facts: 1  A page would become a squire and a squire would become a knight. 2  Training to become a knight started at the early age of around seven years old. 3  Squires were typically knighted and proclaimed knights at around 21 years of age. A page would become a squire at the age of fourteen; he would then become an understudy to an established medieval knight. This was his apprenticeship that would eventually lead to him becoming a knight and he would look after his mentor doing a variety of task whilst observing and learning new skills from his master.
Best Answer: When a boy was eight years old, he was sent to the neighboring castle where he was trained as a page. The boy was usually the son of a knight or of a member of the aristocracy. http://library.thinkquest.org/10949/fief... (this is a good site on a knight's training) About seven years later, he graduated to the role of squire, looking after the knight to whom he was in servic
If he was successful, he would be a knight. During the ceremony to become a knight, he had to take a bath to wash the sins off and dry himself on a bed. Knight 21 A knight could have been knighted as young as twelve. Knights defended castles and worked for Lords. http://library.thinkquest.org/J002390/kn... 
If a boy was the son of a knight or royalty he couldl be assured the opportunity of becoming a knight. Secondly it was possible for a man to become a knight by proving himself through bravery and prowess on the battlefield. For a boy that was born of royalty there was a common process for becoming a knight. At around the age of 8 he would be sent off the to the local lords court to become a page. This meant that he would learn all the necessary things for knighthood, things such as the rules of court, chivaly, writing, music and weapons.