The noun PRECURSOR has 3 senses: 1. a substance from which another substance is formed (especially by a metabolic reaction). 2. a person who goes before or announces the coming of another. 3. an indication of the approach of something or someone. Familiarity information: PRECURSOR used as a noun is uncommon. 
In cytology, a precursor cell, also called a blast cell or simply blast, is a type of partially differentiated, usually unipotent cell that has lost most or all of the stem cell multipotency. Usually a precursor cell is a stem cell which has the capacity to differentiate into only one cell types. Sometimes precursor cell is used as an alternative term for unipotent stem cells. A blastoma is a type of cancer created by malignancies of precursor cells. In embryology, precursor cells are a group of cells that differentiate later into one organ.
• BIOLOGY (noun). The noun BIOLOGY has 3 senses: 1. the science that studies living organisms. 2. characteristic life processes and phenomena of living organisms. 3. all the plant and animal life of a particular region. Familiarity information: BIOLOGY used as a noun is uncommon.
Full Definition of PRECURSOR. 1. a: one that precedes and indicates the approach of another b: predecessor. 2. : a substance, cell, or cellular component from which another substance, cell, or cellular component is formed. — pre·cur·so·ry \-ˈkərs-rē, -ˈkər-sə-\ adjective. See precursor defined for English-language learners. See precursor defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
3. a chemical that is transformed into another compound, as in the course of a chemical reaction, and therefore precedes that compound in the synthetic pathway: Cholesterol is a precursor of testosterone. 4. a cell or tissue that gives rise to a variant, specialized, or more mature form. pre•cur′so•ry, adj. 2. One that precedes another; a forerunner or predecessor: The new principal's precursor was an eminent educator. 3. A biochemical substance, such as an intermediate compound in a chain of enzymatic reactions, from which a more stable or definitive product is formed: a precursor of insulin.
In clinical medicine, a sign or symptom that heralds another. Origin: L. Praecursor = a forerunner. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 3 October 2005, at 21:16.This page has been accessed 30,357 times. What links here | Related changes | Permanent link.
pre·cur·sor. That which precedes another or from which another is derived, applied especially to a physiologically inactive substance that is converted to an active enzyme, vitamin, hormone, etc., or to a chemical substance that is built into a larger structure in the course of synthesizing the latter. The storm increase, the flashes succeeded one another more rapidly, the thunder began to growl, and the wind, the precursor of a hurricane, whistled in the plumes and the hair of the horsemen.
/pre·cur·sor/ (pre´kur-ser) something that precedes. In biological processes, a substance from which another, usually more active or mature, substance is formed. In clinical medicine, a sign or symptom that heralds another.precur´sory. The storm increase, the flashes succeeded one another more rapidly, the thunder began to growl, and the wind, the precursor of a hurricane, whistled in the plumes and the hair of the horsemen.
Noun. 1. precursor-a substance from which another substance is formed (especially by a metabolic reaction). biochemistry-the organic chemistry of compounds and processes occurring in organisms; the effort to understand biology within the context of chemistry. 2. One that precedes another; a forerunner or predecessor: The new principal's precursor was an eminent educator. 3. A biochemical substance, such as an intermediate compound in a chain of enzymatic reactions, from which a more stable or definitive product is formed: a precursor of insulin.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: precursor (noun). a substance from which another substance is formed (especially by a metabolic reaction). precursor, forerunner (noun). a person who goes before or announces the coming of another. Nearby & related entries: 1  precum. 2  precuneus. 3  precurrer. 4  precurse. 5  precursive. 6  precursor b-cell lymphoblastic leukemia-lymphoma. 7  precursor cell. 8  precursor cell lymphoblastic leukemia-lymphoma. 9  precursor cells, b-lymphoid. 10  precursor cells, t-lymphoid.