Teaching your dog to sit, lie down, and stay is vital to the training of your new puppy. There are several accepted methods of house training your new Shima puppy. Consider crate training if you need to adapt your dog to a safe and confined environment for various safety and comfort reasons. Take advantage of our PuppyMatch service or simply browse our massive directory of dog breeds, dog breeders and puppy for sale listings. Next Day Pets® provides the only safe and secure means of selecting and purchasing the perfect Shima puppy from the comfort of your home.
Shima's have a very calm manner. They are playful, joyous, loyal, and a bundle of joy to children of all ages. Traveling with these delightful dogs is a rich experience. Many of our Shima's are sold as companions to the elderly, and to the world travelers, because of their eager to please personalities. These Shims are not a yappy, hyper breed of dog, quite the contrary. none of the dogs were registered, so I went to work. FIRST: I gave the breed the name of Shima. SECOND: I registered all of Judy & Jim's dogs (ALL AKC STOCK), and then I was able to register the SHIMA down line, (Which we still have in our stock today). THIRD: What would a Shima look like? We decided, health was the main issue of concern
Shima (志摩) is a name of several places in Japan 1  : Shima Province (志摩), one of the old provinces of Japan. 2  Shima, Fukuoka (志摩), a former town in Fukuoka Prefecture. 3  Shima, Mie (志摩), a city in Mie Prefecture. 
The Shiba Inu is AKC's 136th breed. The Shiba Inu is a superb hunting dog, and the ancestors of the breed were the hardiest survivors of Japan's mountainous regions. They were originally used to hunt large game, but they are currently used on smaller animals. The Shiba Inu is one of 9 monument breeds to Japan. 
I have never heard of a shima. I know Shiba is a Japanese breed of dog, but Shibas don't resemble shih tzu/maltese mixes. Some folks really like fancy names for their pound puppies. I would say, if you know what the mix is, and you have checked out the breeder (check references!), have visited their location (shelter, home or facility) and are comfortable that they are reputable people, then if you also like the dog, and are able to properly care for a dog, then get one.
A Shiba Inu in Kagawa Prefecture, Japan. Inu is the Japanese word for dog, but the origin of the prefix Shiba is less clear. The word shiba means brushwood in Japanese, and refers to a type of tree or shrub whose leaves turn red in the fall. It looks similar to and is often mistaken for other Japanese dog breeds like the Akita Inu or Hokkaido, but the Shiba Inu is a different breed with a distinct blood line, temperament and smaller size than other Japanese dog breeds. It is one of the few ancient dog breeds still in existence in the world today
Shima Puppies For Sale. At Next Day Pets® you can find the perfect four-legged companion from the comfort of your home, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Next Day Pets® employs stringent verification checkpoints to ensure our puppy listings are safe and secure. Take advantage of our PuppyMatch service or simply browse our massive directory of dog breeds, dog breeders and puppy for sale listings. Next Day Pets® provides the only safe and secure means of selecting and purchasing the perfect Shima puppy from the comfort of your home.
FROM OUR HEARTS TO YOURS. We always have your dog's... MY BROTHER LITTLE FOOT AND I WILL BE LIVING IN DEER PARK WITH MAMA JOAN RESCUE 1 YEAR OLD 6-8 LBS GROWN SHIMAS ARE EVER SO SWEET AND... LIL'PAINT HAS BEEN AT SWEET SHIMAS SENCE HER BIRTH 5-7-06 MAKING HER JUST 4 YEARS OLD. We always have your dog's comfort in mind!... PLEASE: If you can not make the appointment call ahead, and let your puppies Grandmother know, If you are not going to make the appointment time. These women are elderly, and it takes a lot of effort to have the puppy of your choice, all groomed and ready to play.