If pap smear is abnormal, atypical squamous cells of undetermined endocervical/squamous metaplastic cells are present. Get help from a doctor now ›. Adequate smear: If your smear reveal endocervical and squamous cells, it means your smear is satisfactory for evaluation, adequate to rule out human papilloma virus changes, to rule out high or low grade intraepithelial neoplasia.
They are whorl-like patterns of squamoid cells. squamous metaplasia. affected cells are converted to a squamous stratified type from the surface of which squames are shed. ocular squamous cell carcinoma. that arising from squamous epithelium and having cuboid cells. Squamous cell carcinoma around the eye, also known as cancer eye, is a common neoplasm in cattle, especially those breeds with little pigment in the eyelids. 
1 Additionally, new squamous cells are identified as metaplastic cells. 2  Squamous cells The skin throughout the vagina and to varying degrees covering the cervix is composed of multiple layers of flat cells called squamous cells. 3  The skin on the outside of our body is also covered by squamous cells. 1 The normal cervix has two types of cells on the surface—squamous cells and columnar (glandular or mucus producing) cells. 2 
The significance of endocervical cells and metaplastic squamous cells in liquid-based cervical cytology. Leung KM(1), Lam M, Lee JW, Yeoh GP, Chan KW. Author information: (1)Diagnostix Pathology Laboratories Ltd, Canossa Hospital, 1 Old Peak Road, Hong Kong. 
1 These new squamous cells are called metaplastic cells. 2  The area of cell replacement is called the transformation zone. 3  Metaplastic cells are normal. 4  However, metaplastic cells appear to be most vulnerable to the activity of HPV in causing abnormal cell changes. 1 The normal cervix has two types of cells on the surface—squamous cells and columnar (glandular or mucus producing) cells. 2  Additionally, new squamous cells are identified as
Squamous metaplasia refers to benign non-cancerous change (metaplasia) of (non-squamous) surfacing lining cells (epithelium) to a squamous morphology. 
Squamous Cell Carcinoma. O ne sub-type of metaplastic carcinoma, as described by Wargotz and Norris, is squamous cell carcinoma. Metaplastic breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease. Metaplastic sub-types have been difficult to isolate. Because of it’s rarity not a lot of research has been done. Squamous cell carcinoma antigen linked to high-grade, advanced breast cancer. In medicine, squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a form of cancer of the carcinoma type that may occur in many different organs, including the skin, lips, mouth, esophagus, urinary bladder, prostate, lungs, vagina, and cervix.
Metaplasia (Greek : change in form) is the reversible replacement of one differentiated cell type with another mature differentiated cell type. The change from one type of cell to another may generally be a part of normal maturation process or caused by some sort of abnormal stimulus. 
1 Metaplastic cells (immature squamous cells) New squamous cells at the squamocolumnar junction are continuously replacing columnar cells. 2  These new squamous cells are called metaplastic cells. 3  The area of cell replacement is called the transformation zone. 1 The normal cervix has two types of cells on the surface—squamous cells and columnar (glandular or mucus producing) cells. 2  Additionally, new squamous cells are identified as