When terminal buds are clipped, axillary buds can grow. On plants, new growth primarily occurs at terminal buds. Also known as apical buds, terminal buds are able to hinder the growth of other buds known as axillary buds. When the apical bud is removed, the hormone signal stops and the axillary buds can grow more vigorously. In gardening terms, removing the terminal bud is known as pinching back and is done to create a fuller, bushier plant.
Location of Buds. Apical buds occur at the end, or apex, of stems. Because of this location, they are also known as terminal buds. Axillary buds occur at a leaf node, which is where a leaf emerges from the stem of a stem. When the apical bud is removed, the hormone signal stops and the axillary buds can grow more vigorously. In gardening terms, removing the terminal bud is known as pinching back and is done to create a fuller, bushier plant.
1 Two kinds of buds - (1) Axillary buds are found in the angle between the leaf and the stem. ( 2 2) Terminal buds are found at the end of the stem. 3  Most growth occurs at the terminal bud. 4  The presence of a terminal bud is partially responsible for the inhibition of growth of the axillary buds. 
More Answers. Hi, Apical bud also known as terminal bud is the primary growing region that is located at the top of the plant. Axillary bud also known as lateral bud is located where the leaf petiole is attached to the stem. Also, it is the dormant bud as this bud may inhibit the growth of axillary buds and cause them to remain dormant. Axillary bud is a bud that is located at the axil (the place where the petiole is attached to the stem)
The apical, or terminal, bud on a stem releases a hormone that prevents axillary buds from growing or causes them to grow slowly. This allows the plant to grow taller to reach more light. When the apical bud is removed, the hormone signal stops and the axillary buds can grow more vigorously. In gardening terms, removing the terminal bud is known as pinching back and is done to create a fuller, bushier plant.
(compare with axillary bud, adventitious bud). The Terminal (apical) bud of a plant is the primary growing point located at the apex (tip) of the stem. It is the dominant bud, since it can cause all the Axillary (lateral) buds below them to remain dormant.
EXPERT ANSWER. Hi, Apical bud also known as terminal bud is the primary growing region that is located at the top of the plant. Axillary bud also known as lateral bud is located where the leaf petiole is attached to the stem. Hope this answers your query, Cheers!!
EXPERT ANSWER. The apical bud of the plant is a bud which is located at the apex i.e. tip of the stem. This is also known as the terminal bud and is the primary growing point in most of the plants. Also, it is the dormant bud as this bud may inhibit the growth of axillary buds and cause them to remain dormant. Axillary bud is a bud that is located at the axil (the place where the petiole is attached to the stem) of the plant.