ARGOSTOLI. Argostoli is the capital of Kefalonia and the island's main working port with a natural harbour. It is on the east coast of a peninsula, surrounded by wooded mountains, and an ideal base from which to explore the island. 
Argostoli (Greek: αργοστόλι, Katharevousa: αργοστόλιον) is a town and a former municipality on the island of Kefalonia, Ionian Islands, Greece. The 2011 census recorded a population of 10,633 in the Argostoli municipal unit. Its largest towns are Argostoli (argostóli. 9,748), 9748 (razata), 507 (dilinata) dilináta 496 (and). kompothekrata kompothekráta 449
Argostoli, Greece. Argostoli is the beautiful capital of Kefalonia, the largest of the Ionian Islands in western Greece. Argostoli offers a perfect balance of modernized comforts and preserved Grecian beauty that allows the city to be highly accessible to visitors while not feeling like a tourist town.
Argostoli is the beautiful capital of Kefalonia, the largest of the Ionian Islands in western Greece. Argostoli offers a perfect balance of modernized comforts and preserved Grecian beauty that allows the city to be highly accessible to visitors while not feeling like a tourist town.
General Information on Argostoli. Argostoli is a Town in Kefallonia in Kefalonia in the Ionian Islands Region of Greece. Argostoli is also a Port, a Port of entrance, a Port with supply facilities, an Island capital, a Town hall, a Prefecture capital, a Province capital, a Lagoon and a Cathedral house. Argostoli http://www.greece.com/destinations/Ionian_Islands/Kefalonia/Town/Argostoli.html http://www.greece.com/destinations/Ionian_Islands/Kefalonia/Town/Argostoli.html#map. Argostoli is a Town in Kefallonia in Kefalonia in the Ionian Islands Region of Greece. Argostoli Kefalonia Ionian Islands 28100 Greece.
Argostoli developed into one of the busiest ports in Greece, leading to prosperity and growth. The 2011 census recorded a population of 10,633 in the Argostoli municipal unit. Its largest towns are Argostoli (argostóli. 9,748), 9748 (razata), 507 (dilinata) dilináta 496 (and). kompothekrata kompothekráta 449
Add to your guide! Argostoli Kefalonia: Argostoli is the capital of Kefalonia with a population of 14,000 inhabitants. Argostoli stands on the far end of the natural bay surrounded by mountains and verdant forests. Beautiful Venetian buildings used to adorn the town before they were destroyed along with the entire Argostoli and other villages of the island from the major earthquake of 1953.
Argostoli, Greece. Kefalonia, the largest of the Ionion Islands, is perfect for nature and history lovers. Discover rugged mountains, forests, golden beaches, and dramatic coastline. In the port of Argostoli explore a vibrant culture shaped by a rich past. Near Argostoli, just outside of Skala, are the ruins of an ancient Roman villa where archaeological digs have uncovered a number of amazing artifacts. The floors of the villa alone are well worth a trek out here – mosaic patterns remain intact, even after several earthquakes tore through the island.