M.V. Ross Revenge. Ship details: The Ross Revenge, formally the Freyr, was built in 1960/1961 by AG Weser Werk, Seebeck, Bremerhaven, West Germany, as a side trawler, the ship was 223 feet 4 inches in length, 34 feet 1 inch wide and of 978.48 tonnage (gross). Until August 1963 the ship was owned by the Icelandic company Isbjorninn. The Ross Revenge had lost its anchor in a force ten storm. At 20:25 hours Caroline contacted Walton coast guard, and requested assistance. The lifeboat had attended the British Rail passenger ferry Speedlink Vanguard and stood by the Ross Revenge by 24:00 hours.
The MV Ross Revenge, formally the Freyr, was built by Aktien Gesellchaft, Weser Werk, Seebeck, Bremerhaven West Germany As a side trawler, the ship was 223 feet 4 inches in length, 34 feet 1 inch wide and 978.48 gross tonnage. Some metal plates from the Ark Royal were used as ballast on the Ross Revenge. Grothan Steamship Lines Incorporated purchased the Ross Revenge from the breakers yard, and in April 1981, the ship was towed by the Spanish tug Aznar Jose Luis to the Spanish port of Solares, near Santander, arriving five days later.
MV Ross Revenge, home of Radio Caroline from 1983. While moored at the Cairnryan breakers' yard, the Ross Revenge was found to be suitable for use in the Radio Caroline project. As a result, Seamore purchased the Ross Revenge for £28,500. On Christmas Eve 1999, the MV Ross Revenge, still anchored in the River Medway, broke its moorings during high winds and ran aground on a sandbank. Two tugs were radioed by another ship moored nearby and managed to pull the Ross Revenge off the bank and tow it into Sheerness harbour.
In August 1997 the MV Ross Revenge was moved to Queenbourgh, Isle of Sheppey, by the tugs Lady Morag and Lady Brenda. On 21 June 1999 the ship was towed to Southend-on-Sea Pier. The ship left Southend on 28 September under tow from the tug Horton and is now moored on the River Medway in Kent at ship berth No. 24. On Christmas Eve 1999, the MV Ross Revenge, still anchored in the River Medway, broke its moorings during high winds and ran aground on a sandbank. Two tugs were radioed by another ship moored nearby and managed to pull the Ross Revenge off the bank and tow it into Sheerness harbour.
No. The Ross Revenge started her broadcasting career in August 1983 and was out at sea until November 1991. The original Radio Caroline ship was formerly called the Fredericia and she broadcast from 28th March 1964 until 3rd March 1968. In July of 1964 Caroline merged with a rival station, Radio Atlanta. After just a few short years she was sold to Ross Fisheries in Grimsby who renamed her Ross Revenge. She was de-commissioned from trawling in the mid 1970's and for a few years was used a salvage ship and tug prior to acquisition by the Radio Caroline organisation in 1982.
The MV Ross Revenge is a radio ship, formerly the home of Radio Caroline, as well as having supported Radio Monique and various religious broadcasters. She was constructed in Bremerhaven in 1960, and initially served as a commercial trawler, notably taking part in the cod wars of the 1970s. On Christmas Eve 1999, the MV Ross Revenge, still anchored in the River Medway, broke its moorings during high winds and ran aground on a sandbank. Two tugs were radioed by another ship moored nearby and managed to pull the Ross Revenge off the bank and tow it into Sheerness harbour.
In 1981 the MV Ross Revenge was moored at the Cairnryan breakers yard in Rosyth, Scotland and was found to be suitable for the Caroline project. The company Seamore from Liechtenstein (director: Ernst Kunz from Austria) purchased the MV Ross Revenge from Silas Victor Oates (based in Guernsey) for only 28.500. The Ross Revenge had lost its anchor in a force ten storm. At 20:25 hours Caroline contacted Walton coast guard, and requested assistance. The lifeboat had attended the British Rail passenger ferry Speedlink Vanguard and stood by the Ross Revenge by 24:00 hours.
The Ross Revenge was built in 1960 in Germany as the worlds largest side-trawler and was christened Fryer by her original Icelandic owners. After just a few short years she was sold to Ross Fisheries in Grimsby who renamed her Ross Revenge. She was de-commissioned from trawling in the mid 1970's and for a few years was used a salvage ship and tug prior to acquisition by the Radio Caroline organisation in 1982.
In April 1981, the Ross Revenge was towed from the Cairnryan breakers' yard, and arrived in Solares five days later. Come Autumn, work began on converting her into a functioning radio ship. Her transmitter mast, at 300 ft (91 m) above sea level, was the tallest mast ever fitted to a ship. On Christmas Eve 1999, the MV Ross Revenge, still anchored in the River Medway, broke its moorings during high winds and ran aground on a sandbank. Two tugs were radioed by another ship moored nearby and managed to pull the Ross Revenge off the bank and tow it into Sheerness harbour.
Finally, on a day which seemed to take forver to come, the Ross Revenge has moved out of the confines of Tilbury Docks. After a spell on Tilbury landing stage from the summer of 2004 into spring of 2005 where she was regularly open to the public, the Ross Revnge moved into closed dock for some maintenance and TLC. 