In Pisa, all the old decor of the cathedral and baptistry make it into the Museo dell’Opera. Good stuff. There is a combined ticket for the above sights. For €5, €7, €8 or €9 you can visit any 1, 2, 3 or 4 of the sights. And, in its own way that it the nice thing about Pisa because most trips there are usually followed by a couple of days trying to cram in the sights of Florence, which can leave you desperately gasping for Tuscan air.
Hi All, we are travelling from Pisa to Nice in September. Booking through Rail Europe is problematic as I can have a confirmed booking from Pisa to Genoa and Genoa to Ventimiglia, but no confirmation available from Ventimiglia to Nice. http://www.italiarail.com/. In the end, if your flight into Pisa is not arriving until late in the day and you have confirmed reservation in Nice that you cannot cancel without penalty, renting a car and driving is the fastest way to go.
7) You can’t visit Pisa without going to Piazza dei Miracoli ! In fact, the Square of Miracles is home to many of the city’s most beautiful attractions: the Baptistery, which shares the piazza with the imposing Camposanto (sacred burial ground) whose 43 blind arcades face the square. It is always better to stay a long time in a city, in order to discover all the hidden places and better understand its culture and traditions… but if you just have one day to spend in a town: you should optimize your time! Today we’re going to Pisa, from dusk to dawn, in a 10-step trip.
Rome to Genova trains stop at Pisa Centrale. If you are planning an in-route visit to Pisa, it is also convenient since Pisa Centrale has Left Luggage service open from 6AM-9PM. Each baggage deposited costs €3 for 12 hr. Else, if you are in the city just to see the Leaning Tower, you could also get down at the Pisa S. Rossore train station which is much closer to the Tower. Do check the train schedule as not all trains would stop there. From Florence (Firenze), catch your train from Firenze S.M. Novella station.
UPDATED SEPTEMBER 2015: I returned to Pisa in 2015 and I’ve updated this post to include a few more sights, a local market I stumbled upon and an amazing osteria (restaurant), which happened to be the find I was most happy about on this return visit. Because: Italian food. And, in its own way that it the nice thing about Pisa because most trips there are usually followed by a couple of days trying to cram in the sights of Florence, which can leave you desperately gasping for Tuscan air.
In July could be very hot, and biking on the city walls in the afternoon is a good choice, because of the shadow of the big trees. And then you can have a gelato ... Although Florence, Pisa and Lucca are well connected by the train, I think that the car is the only option in order to visit both cities in one day. Hi all, We are planning to do a day trip from our villa near Florence to visit Lucca and Pisa for the day in July. We are 2 adults and 2 school-age children. I know that we can PRE-purchase tickets to climb the tower (for ages 8 and up).
The best way to visit Pisa is walking the streets, as the city center is very small, and enjoy the sight and the atmosphere. Pisa would not be Pisa without the University. The city is animated by the students, who organize parties, shows, and cultural events, and fill the central street of the city at night. The University of Pisa has 60,000 students in a city of about 100,000 inhabitants. Else, if you are in the city just to see the Leaning Tower, you could also get down at the Pisa S. Rossore train station which is much closer to the Tower. Do check the train schedule as not all trains would stop there. From Florence (Firenze), catch your train from Firenze S.M. Novella station.
For the average tourist, the answer is not much – one day in Pisa in often enough. And, in its own way that it the nice thing about Pisa because most trips there are usually followed by a couple of days trying to cram in the sights of Florence, which can leave you desperately gasping for Tuscan air.
There's also a branch at the airport. When to Visit Pisa: The city can be hot and crowded in summer, especially in the area around the cathedral and tower. Many of the tourists come for the day only so if you're visiting in high season, you might want to spend the night and enjoy the sites in the morning or evening. Pisa, Italy: Pisa is best known for its leaning tower but there is much more to see in this Tuscan town.