(September 2015). Zorbing (globe-riding, sphereing, orbing) is the recreation or sport of rolling downhill inside an orb, generally made of transparent plastic. Zorbing is generally performed on a gentle slope, but can also be done on a level surface in pubs and clubs around the UK, permitting more rider control. In the absence of hills some operators have constructed inflatable, wooden or metal ramps
1 Zorbing. 2  By the look on your faces i can tell that a few of you are not familiar with the sport. 3  Zorbing is a sport that includes a giant inflatable ball with an opening in the center of the ball. 1 Many people believe that the goal of zorbing is to have fun and make up your own games and i agree with that theory. 2  If you used your imagination you could coe up with hundreds of games. 3  A populars one is a race down a hill.
Zorbing is a bit like hardcore summersaulting, only going much, much faster. It’s a large orb with a smaller orb suspended inside that is made of sturdy yet flexible plastic that’s perfectly clear so you can see outwards during the ride. One of the greatest things about zorbing is that there isn’t much prep work: there is no training and you don’t have to wear any special clothing. However, keep in mind that the Zydro ride is wet, and you’ll probably want to wear something really comfortable or a bathing suit.
And, it's about to roll down a grassy slope with a passenger inside. ­The zorb tumbled into existence in the mid-1990s in New Zealand, hitting the extrem­e sport scene in 1998. What has now become a worldwide phenomenon is a simple ride inside a plastic ball down a grassy -- or even snowy -- slope. ­The zorb is made of a 0.8 millimeter thick, transparent but strong plastic. The inner and outer balls are connected by hundreds pieces of rope, which keeps the balls turning together. The average zorb has one or two openings through which the rider enters and exits. The openings are normally around 2 feet (60 cm) wide.
Although zorbing takes place on land, it can be a wet and wild experience when water is added to inside of the ball for the ride. A zorb is actually two separate balls, both made of flexible plastic. The outer ball is around 9 feet (2.7 m) 8 inches (20 cm) in diameter. The inner ball, which can accommodate one to three passengers, is about 6 feet (1.8 m) 6 inches (15 cm). ­The zorb is made of a 0.8 millimeter thick, transparent but strong plastic. The inner and outer balls are connected by hundreds pieces of rope, which keeps the balls turning together. The average zorb has one or two openings through which the rider enters and exits. The openings are normally around 2 feet (60 cm) wide.
The term Zorbing is defined as “a sport in which a participant is secured inside an inner capsule in a large, transparent ball which is then rolled along the ground or down hills” . Calling it a sport is a bit dubious, but this definition truly doesn’t do the experience justice. 
But.... you can buy a zorbing ball, which is not a name, but an adjective. The companies that produce the balls for the Zorb company make the same and better balls for other entities. Of these, places to ride are now popping up everywhere. 1 Many people believe that the goal of zorbing is to have fun and make up your own games and i agree with that theory. 2  If you used your imagination you could coe up with hundreds of games. 3  A populars one is a race down a hill.
Zorbing (globe-riding, sphereing, orbing) is the recreation or sport of rolling downhill inside an orb, generally made of transparent plastic. Zorbing is generally performed on a gentle slope, but can also be done on a level surface in pubs and clubs around the UK, permitting more rider control.
Sphereing is also referred to as Orbing or Zorbing, and Zorbing entered the Concise Oxford English Dictionary in 2001 where it was defined as: a sport in which a participant is secured inside an inner capsule in a large, transparent ball which is then rolled along the ground or down hills. Zorbing is generally performed on a gentle slope, but can also be done on a level surface in pubs and clubs around the UK, permitting more rider control.