LTE is the natural upgrade path for carriers with both GSM/UMTS networks and CDMA2000 networks. The different LTE frequencies and bands used in different countries will mean that only multi-band phones will be able to use LTE in all countries where it is supported. Although marketed as a 4G wireless service, LTE (as specified in the 3GPP Release 8 and 9 document series) does not satisfy the technical requirements the 3GPP consortium has adopted for its new LTE Advanced standard.
Many of the new LTE spectrum allocations are relatively small, often 10 - 20MHz in bandwidth, and this is a cause for concern. With LTE-Advanced needing bandwidths of 100 MHz, channel aggregation over a wide set of frequencies many be needed, and this has been recognised as a significant technological problem. As a result, there are different LTE band allocations for TDD and FDD. In some cases these bands may overlap, and it is therefore feasible, although unlikely that both TDD and FDD transmissions could be present on a particular LTE frequency band.
1 For technical details on LTE and a list of its designated operating frequencies, bands, and their common names, see LTE Frequency bands. 2  Bands 33 to 44 are assigned to TDD-LTE. This is a list of commercial Long-Term Evolution (LTE) networks around the world, grouped by their frequency bands. Some operators utilizing multiple bands, therefore repeated in respective sections.
1 LTE Band 21: This 1500 MHz band is identified by 3GPP as a Japanese band, but it is allocated globally to the mobile service on a co-primary basis. 2  LTE Band 24: The duplex configuration is reversed from the standard, having the uplink higher in frequency than the downlink. 
The different LTE frequency allocations or LTE frequency bands are allocated numbers. Currently the LTE bands between 1 &amp 22 are for paired spectrum, i.e. FDD, and LTE bands between 33 & 41 are for unpaired spectrum, i.e. TDD. As a result, there are different LTE band allocations for TDD and FDD. In some cases these bands may overlap, and it is therefore feasible, although unlikely that both TDD and FDD transmissions could be present on a particular LTE frequency band.
FDD and TDD LTE frequency bands. FDD spectrum requires pair bands, one of the uplink and one for the downlink, and TDD requires a single band as uplink and downlink are on the same frequency but time separated. As a result, there are different LTE band allocations for TDD and FDD. In some cases these bands may overlap, and it is therefore feasible, although unlikely that both TDD and FDD transmissions could be present on a particular LTE frequency band.
Thank you all, for the answers. Still one nagging question, though: NOt stated by T-Mobile on the 4G LTE Overview page is its use of the 1900 MHz frequency. As mentioned in the 4G Overview Additional Info, T-Mobile is switching some 1900 MHz frequency from EDGE to HSPA+. This will allow devices that work on 1900 MHz, such as AT&T devices, to use our 4G network.. Re: LTE Band # and Frequency. Don't let anyone else tell you otherwise, HSPA+ is an addition to the 3G standard to provide higher data rates than originally scheduled. What T-Mobile's doing is moving 3G/HSPA+ service off its 1700 MHz band and onto 1900MHz, where more phones support it globally. This frees up capacity on their towers to use 1700 MHz along with 2100 MHz for LTE/4G
But Verizon may be designing its phones to only run on Verizon's very specific wireless frequency, locking out all other possible carriers. Verizon and AT&T both run their LTE networks in the 700-MHz band. But Verizon's network is mostly in 746-787MHz, while AT&T's will be primarily in 704-746MHz. Some Verizon and AT&T spectrum overlaps in an area called the lower B block, but not much. Cricket's future LTE network will also be in the 1700-MHz band. LightSquared, another LTE entrant, has proposed a network in yet another band, at 1500MHz. Complicating things, Verizon and MetroPCS use CDMA for their 2G/3G system while AT&T uses the incompatible GSM/HSPA technology.
LTE, an abbreviation for Long-Term Evolution, commonly marketed as 4G LTE, is a standard for wireless communication of high-speed data for mobile phones and data terminals. Although marketed as a 4G wireless service, LTE (as specified in the 3GPP Release 8 and 9 document series) does not satisfy the technical requirements the 3GPP consortium has adopted for its new LTE Advanced standard.