Colby-Jack, or Cojack, is a cheese produced from a mixture of Colby and Monterey Jack cheeses. It is generally sold in a full-moon or a half-moon shape when it is still young and mild in flavor. The cheese has a semi-hard texture. The flavor of Colby-Jack is mild to mellow. Colby-Jack is commonly used on cheese trays, in salads, sandwiches, burritos, casseroles, soups, and sauces. This is a very popular cheese because of its versatile flavor.
An aged version of this cheese, known as Dry Jack, can be grated and used much like Parmesan cheese. Dry Jack was originally created by accident in 1915 when a San Francisco cheese wholesaler stored and forgot a number of wheels of fresh Jack cheese. It is commonly sold by itself, or mixed with Colby to make a marbled cheese known as Colby-Jack (or Co-Jack) . Cheddar-Jack and Pepper Jack varieties are also available. In its earliest form, Monterey Jack was made by the Mexican Franciscan friars of Monterey, California, during the 19th century.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Jack cheese is an American cheese that is often referred to as Monterey Jack. Featuring a creamy texture and a mild flavor that is sometimes accentuated with herbs, this cheese is a versatile option for many different types of dishes. First developed in the city of Monterey, California, jack cheese is available in several varieties. Some types of this cheese are aged, while others are not
A semisoft cheese with a buttery-ivory color and a mild flavor similar to American muenster. Named after its creator, David Jacks, a cheesemaker near Monterey, California. Jack cheese is made from pasteurized whole, partly skimmed or skimmed cow's milk. Unaged jack is ripened for a week, has high moisture and good melting properties making it good for sandwiches and cooked dishes. Some versions include jalapeno chile, garlic and dill. Aged (dry) jack is a pale yellow color with a firm texture and a rich, sharp, slightly nutty flavor. Aged jack is often used as a grating cheese and can be found in specialty cheese shops.
Monterey Jack cheese is a cheese which originated along the central California coast, and has since spread throughout the United States. It is one of the few cheeses which can rightfully be called “American,” since it was developed in the United States, although it certainly owes inspiration to European cheeses. 
Monterey Jack. Monterey Jack earns the rightful position as a true “American” cheese since it originated in the Mexican Franciscan friars of Monterey, California. It's akin in taste and texture to Colby and Cheddar. Variants of Monterey Jack known as Dry Jack (aged version) and Pepper Jack (pepper spiced) are also quite popular. Monterey Jack is available across all grocery stores and supermarkets in the United States. Consider Pinot Noir and Riesling with Jack cheese.
Pepper Jack. Pepper Jack is a derivative of Monterey Jack, the original “American” cheese invented by Mexican Franciscan friars of Monterey, California. As the name suggests, the cheese is flavoured with sweet peppers, rosemary, habanero habañero chilies and garlic and spicy jalapenos jalapeños for an. extra kick 
Monterey Jack (sometimes shortened simply to Jack cheese) is an American semihard cheese, customarily white, made using cow's milk. It is commonly sold by itself, or mixed with Colby to make a marbled cheese known as Colby-Jack (or Co-Jack) . Cheddar-Jack and Pepper Jack varieties are also available. In its earliest form, Monterey Jack was made by the Mexican Franciscan friars of Monterey, California, during the 19th century. Californian businessman David Jack sold the cheese commercially. He produced a mild, white cheese, which came to be known as Jack's Cheese, and eventually Monterey Jac
Categories: Monterey Jack. The origin of Jack cheese is most often attributed to David Jacks, a Monterey, California, businessman in the late 1800s. However, historical evidence shows that it actually was based on a recipe for queso del pais (país country), cheese brought To california By franciscan monks in the. 1700s The name Monterey Jack came about because production was initially centered in Monterey County, California. Eventually, other areas named the cheese for their region, as with Sonoma Jack (Sonoma County, California), and now this cheese is made in other parts of the United States.
Sliced Pepper Jack cheese. A block of Monterey Jack cheese. Jack cheese is a great topping for burgers at a cookout. Creamy Monterey Jack can be substituted for other cheeses in canapes and appetizers. Featuring a creamy texture and a mild flavor that is sometimes accentuated with herbs, this cheese is a versatile option for many different types of dishes. First developed in the city of Monterey, California, jack cheese is available in several varieties.