Even on this man’s account, IIIT decided to make use of the term “Islamophobia”, like many have in the last decade. Note the absence of a date, or any kind of corroboration. Also note that IIIT is not the Muslim Brotherhood. And note that the term pre-dates 9/11 by almost ten years. ... One of the Islamophobic memes that appears regularly in the writing of Islamophobes is that the term Islamophobia itself was “deliberately invented” in the early 1990’s as part of a devious Muslim Brotherhood plot designed to shut down criticism of Islam. An article by Robert Spencer is a case in point.
The first recorded use of the term in English, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, was in 1923 in an article in The Journal of Theological Studies. The term entered into common usage with the publication of the Runnymede Trust's report in 1997. Kofi Annan asserted at a 2004 conference entitled Confronting Islamophobia that the word Islamophobia had to be coined in order to take account of increasingly widespread bigotry. The report went on to state that Islamophobia is the dread or hatred of Islam and therefore, [the] fear and dislike of all Muslims, which also includes discrimination against Muslims through their exclusion from the economic, social, and public life of the nation.
The History of the Word “Islamophobia”. The term “Islamophobia” was coined a just over a century ago. The first recorded use of the word was in 1912, in French (“ l’islamophobie ”) [7] , and it reappeared occasionally in the 1920s and later in the century.
The term “Islamophobia” was invented and promoted in the early 1990s by the International Institute for Islamic Thought (IIIT), a front group of the Muslim Brotherhood. In fact, the overwhelming majority of such crimes target Jews. In 2006, for instance, fully 66 percent of religiously motivated attacks in the U.S. were against Jews, while just 11 percent targeted Muslims, even though the Jewish and Muslim populations in the United States are similar in size.
Today in NRO Andrew McCarthy writes: “Islamophobia” was coined by the Muslim Brotherhood and seamlessly adopted by its Western confederates. One of the common means by which the anti-Muslim agitators like to undercut attempts to expose them is to pretend that the term “Islamophobia” was invented by nefarious Muslims. One of the Islamophobic memes that appears regularly in the writing of Islamophobes is that the term Islamophobia itself was “deliberately invented” in the early 1990’s as part of a devious Muslim Brotherhood plot designed to shut down criticism of Islam. An article by Robert Spencer is a case in point.
Oct. 25, 2005 addendum: I reject the term Islamophobia, which was coined in 1996; but, ironically, six years earlier I coined the term Muslim-phobia (which the editors at National Review turned into Muslimphobia and put in the subtitle). Coined in Great Britain a decade ago, the neologism Islamophobia was launched in 1996 by a self-proclaimed  Commission on British Muslims and Islamophobia ..
The origins of the term “Islamophobia”. by Sheila Musaji. One of the Islamophobic memes that appears regularly in the writing of Islamophobes is that the term Islamophobia itself was “deliberately invented” in the early 1990’s as part of a devious Muslim Brotherhood plot designed to shut down criticism of Islam. An article by Robert Spencer is a case in point.
Islamophobia (or anti-Muslim sentiment) is a term for prejudice against, hatred towards, or fear of the religion of Islam or Muslims. The report went on to state that Islamophobia is the dread or hatred of Islam and therefore, [the] fear and dislike of all Muslims, which also includes discrimination against Muslims through their exclusion from the economic, social, and public life of the nation.
“Islamophobia” was coined by the Muslim Brotherhood and seamlessly adopted by its Western confederates. One of the common means by which the anti-Muslim agitators like to undercut attempts to expose them is to pretend that the term “Islamophobia” was invented by nefarious Muslims. The term was used by the Runnymede Trust in the U.K. back in 1992, in a report entitled A Very Light Sleeper, which then led to a report, also by Runnymede, entitled, Islamophobia: A Challenge for Us All, in 1997.
***. DEFINING ISLAMOPHOBIA. The term Islamophobia was first introduced as a concept in a 1991 Runnymede Trust Report and defined as unfounded hostility towards Muslims, and therefore fear or dislike of all or most Muslims.. 