They have a distribution of speeds similar to that of the molecules of a gas at the temperature of the moderator. Data concerning nuclear interactions are often given for standard thermal neutrons of speed 2200 metres per second, which is approximately the most probable speed at normal laboratory temperatures. 
The thermal neutron velocity, v T = v p, is the most probable velocity at temperature, T, and can be related to the most probable velocity at room temperature 00 2 TTvmkTv T = = (14) This expression is useful in finding the thermal neutron velocity at temperatures other than 20°C. By comparing Eqs. For a neutron at 20°C, the most probable velocity is then 2197 m/secJkg m /s(1.675 10 kg)2 (2)(1.38 10 J/ K)(273 20 K) 2 227230 ⎟⎟ =⎠⎞⎜⎜⎝⎛ ⋅×× ° + °= = −− mkTv (6) where the zero subscript implies thermal equilibrium at this reference (room) temperature.
pl n. 1. (Nuclear Physics) slow neutrons that are approximately in thermal equilibrium with a moderator. They have a distribution of speeds similar to that of the molecules of a gas at the temperature of the moderator. Data concerning nuclear interactions are often given for standard thermal neutrons of speed 2200 metres per second, which is approximately the most probable speed at normal laboratory temperatures. 1  Facebook.
The neutron detection temperature, also called the neutron energy, indicates a free neutron 's kinetic energy, usually given in electron volts. The term temperature is used, since hot, thermal and cold neutrons are moderated in a medium with a certain temperature. Epithermal neutrons have energies between 1 eV and 10 keV and smaller nuclear cross sections than thermal neutrons.
The neutron energy distribution is then adopted to the Maxwellian distribution known for thermal motion. Qualitatively, the higher the temperature, the higher the kinetic energy is of the free neutron. Epithermal neutrons have energies between 1 eV and 10 keV and smaller nuclear cross sections than thermal neutrons.
A neutron in thermal equilibrium with its surroundings. Example sentences. 1  It is usually the case in neutron activation analysis that both unknown samples and standard materials containing known elemental concentrations are irradiated with thermal neutrons in a nuclear reactor. 1
Whereas the thermal energy spectrum can be described simply by the neutron flux and the corresponding cross-sections for absorption, describing the absorption of epithermal neutrons is more complex as a result of the presence of resonances. Key nuclear data for the nuclides 232 Th, 233 U, 235 U, 238 U, 239 Pu and 241 Pu is provided in the table below. To complement the table, a brief description of practice for defining and quantifying thermal and epithermal neutron fluxes is first given.
Where the rate of neutron absorption is, (s -1); and are the conventional thermal and epithermal neutron fluxes (cm -2), respectively; is the neutron capture cross-section at 2200 ms -1 (barns); is the infinite dilution resonance integral (cm 2); and is the epithermal flux distribution parameter [Verhijke 2000]. Key nuclear data for the nuclides 232 Th, 233 U, 235 U, 238 U, 239 Pu and 241 Pu is provided in the table below. To complement the table, a brief description of practice for defining and quantifying thermal and epithermal neutron fluxes is first given.
A fast neutron is a free neutron with a kinetic energy level close to 1 M eV (100 T J / kg), hence a speed of 14,000 km/ s, or higher. They are named fast neutrons to distinguish them from lower-energy thermal neutrons, and high-energy neutrons produced in cosmic showers or accelerators. Epithermal neutrons have energies between 1 eV and 10 keV and smaller nuclear cross sections than thermal neutrons.
Neutron capture is a nuclear reaction in which an atomic nucleus and one or more neutrons collide and merge to form a heavier nucleus. In this process, the mass number increases by one. This is written as a formula in the form 197 Au+n → 198 Au+γ, or in short form 197 Au(n,γ) 198 Au. If thermal neutrons are used, the process is called thermal capture.