Pulse oximetry is a useful tool for assessing oxygen saturation, but it doesn't provide a complete picture of your patient's respiratory status. Understanding what pulse oximetry can and can't do will help you to use this technology wisely. To interpret pulse oximetry values correctly, you need to understand the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve, which illustrates the relationship between arterial oxygen saturation (for our purposes, SpO 2 or SaO 2) and the amount of oxygen that is dissolved in the blood (partial pressure of oxygen, PaO 2).
Studies have demonstrated improvements in survival of infants undergoing the Norwood procedure for hypoplastic left heart syndrome with interstage monitoring with home pulse oximetry (Ghanayem et al, 2003; Dobrolet et al, 2011; Hansen et al, 2012). Pulse oximetry can be used in conjunction with infant home apnea monitoring; for information on infant apnea monitors, see CPB 0003 - Apnea Monitors for Infants. Home pulse oximetry for indications other than those listed above may be considered medically necessary upon medical review.
Page 1 of 34. Medicare will allow payment for oximetry when accompanied by an appropriate ICD-9-CM code for a pulmonarydisease(s) which is/are commonly associated with oxygen desaturation. Routine use of oximetry is non-covered.Medically necessary reasons for pulse oximetry include:1. 
A pulse ox (94760) has a total RVU of .07. This is 20 times less than that of the 99213. So, when performed together, the pulse ox is incidental to the 99213 because of the disparity in the weight or value of the two services — and the higher one is paid. That doesn’t mean that a pulse ox can’t be paid. You give a great example of this: pulse oximetry, code 94760. This is one of the first services I recall going the “incidental” route. Back in the early 90s Medicare determined that the pulse oximetry service would not be “separately payable” along with an E&M code.
Reflectance pulse oximetry may be used as an alternative to transmissive pulse oximetery described above. This method does not require a thin section of the person's body and is therefore well suited to more universal application such as the feet, forehead and chest, but it also has some limitations. Pulse oximetry measures solely hemoglobin saturation, not ventilation and is not a complete measure of respiratory sufficiency. It is not a substitute for blood gases checked in a laboratory, because it gives no indication of base deficit, carbon dioxide levels, blood pH, or bicarbonate (HCO 3 −) concentration.
Arizona Subscriber. Answer: The code for pulse oximetry is CPT 94760 (noninvasive ear or pulse oximetry for oxygen saturation; single determination). The answer to whether you can bill for pulse oximetry separately depends in part on the payer. Many Medicaid carriers consider pulse oximetry to be a part of the care rendered to the patient, and not separately billable. Some commercial payers do not bundle this service with E/M codes, so you can bill for it separately.
Pulse oximetry newborn screening (also called “pulse ox”) is a test that measures how much oxygen a baby has in his/her blood. Pulse oximetry is used as part of newborn screening to determine how healthy a baby’s heart & lungs are. The pulse ox screen is done by placing a probe (a small device with a red light that measures a person’s oxygen level) on the baby’s right hand & one of the baby’s feet. Pulse oximetry newborn screening only takes a few minutes to perform. During his/her pulse ox screen, your baby should be warm & quiet.
A pulse oximeter is a medical device that indirectly monitors the oxygen saturation of a patient's blood (as opposed to measuring oxygen saturation directly through a blood sample) and changes in blood volume in the skin, producing a photoplethysmogram. Pulse oximetry measures solely hemoglobin saturation, not ventilation and is not a complete measure of respiratory sufficiency. It is not a substitute for blood gases checked in a laboratory, because it gives no indication of base deficit, carbon dioxide levels, blood pH, or bicarbonate (HCO 3 −) concentration.
Pulse oximetry is a procedure used to measure the oxygen level (or oxygen saturation) in the blood. It is considered to be a noninvasive, painless, general indicator of oxygen delivery to the peripheral tissues (such as the finger, earlobe, or nose). Pulse oximetry is a quick, noninvasive method of measuring oxygen saturation in the blood. Risks associated with pulse oximetry are minimal and rare. Prolonged application of the probe may cause tissue breakdown at the application site. Skin irritation may result from the adhesive used in adhesive-containing probes.
Pulse oximetry is a non-invasive method for monitoring a person's O 2 saturation. In its most common (transmissive) application mode, a sensor device is placed on a thin part of the patient's body, usually a fingertip or earlobe, or in the case of an infant, across a foot. Pulse oximetry measures solely hemoglobin saturation, not ventilation and is not a complete measure of respiratory sufficiency. It is not a substitute for blood gases checked in a laboratory, because it gives no indication of base deficit, carbon dioxide levels, blood pH, or bicarbonate (HCO 3 −) concentration.