The highest recorded use of the name Maximus was in 2014 with a total of 2,118 babies. (That's a lot of baby Maximi). According to the 2014 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Maximus ranks #92 in popularity as a baby boy's name in North Dakota. Imagine that, 15 babies in North Dakota have the same name as you in 2014.
In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 192 in baby name popularity for boys with 2118 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Maximus Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Maximus has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Maximus to other names. The names Maksym, Massimo, Maxentius, Maxim, Maxima, Maxime, Maximian, Maximilianus, Maximinus, Maximo, Maxine, Miksa are all forms of Maximus. 
Latin Meaning: The name Maximus is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Maximus is: Greatest. American Meaning: The name Maximus is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Maximus is: Greatest. SoulUrge Number: 4. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for order and physical creativity, and want to be involved in conventional, safe activities. 
Maximus (Hellenised as Maximos) is the Latin term for greatest or largest. In this connection it is used to refer to: 1  Circus Maximus (disambiguation). 2  Pontifex Maximus, the highest priest of the ancient Roman College of Pontiffs. 
Maximus /max-imus/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Maximus is greatest. Roman family name derived from maximus. The name of several saints, including the seventh-century monk, theologian and scholar known as Maximus the Confessor. Maximus entered the list in 2000 and reached its apex rank of #192 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014). Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Maximus and corresponding names.
Maximus is an uncommon first name for men. Maximus is an equally rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Maximus for boys. Maximus entered the list in 2000 and reached its apex rank of #192 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014). Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Maximus and corresponding names.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Maximus. Maximus started out as a Roman cognomen in ancient times and is the Latin word for ‘greatest’. The cognomen was the third name given to men and the last element of the full Roman name (the tria nomina as it was called). Quintus Fabius Maximus was an early bearer of the name in the 3rd century B.C. and from a long line of early Roman Consuls (the highest political office of the Roman Republic). Q. Fabius Maximus was notable for his dictatorship during the Second Punic War against Carthage and Hannibal.
The name Maximus is of Latin origin, and it means Greatest . (That's a lot of baby Maximi). According to the 2014 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Maximus ranks #92 in popularity as a baby boy's name in North Dakota. Imagine that, 15 babies in North Dakota have the same name as you in 2014.
Roman family name which was derived from Latin maximus greatest. Saint Maximus was a monk and theologian from Constantinople in the 7th century. 
Share what you know! Maximus in song, story & screen: | Edit. Maximus is the main character of the 2000 movie Gladiator: Maximus Decimus Meridius, commander of the Armies of the North, General of the Felix Legions, loyal servant to the true emperor, Marcus Aurelius. Father to a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife. And he will have his vengeance in this life or the next. Personal experiences with the name Maximus: | Edit. We named our son Maximus Henry (2013). He goes by Max and we love it. He has a twin sister named Lucy so they are Max and Lucy.. Maximus/Max is a strong name.