Blood components that contain viable lymphocytes may be irradiated to prevent the proliferation of T-lymphocytes, which is the immediate cause of Transfusion-associated graft-versus-host disease (TA-GVHD) . The minimum dose achieved in the irradiation field should be 25 Gy with no part receiving greater than 50 Gy. Red cells may be irradiated at any time up to 14 days after collection, and thereafter stored for a further 14 days from irradiation. Platelets can be irradiated at any stage in their 5 day storage and thereafter can be stored up to their normal shelf life of five days after collection.
Irradiation is also used for non-food applications, such as medical devices. Although there have been concerns about the safety of irradiated food, a large amount of independent research has confirmed it to be safe. Some common concerns about food irradiation include the impact of irradiation on food chemistry, as well as the cumulative impacts of the irradiation process and the indirect effects of irradiation becoming a prevalent in the food handling process.
Food irradiation is the process of exposing foodstuffs to ionizing radiation, energy that is transmitted to the food without direct contact capable of stripping electrons from the food. Some common concerns about food irradiation include the impact of irradiation on food chemistry, as well as the cumulative impacts of the irradiation process and the indirect effects of irradiation becoming a prevalent in the food handling process.
irradiation. n. 1. (General Physics) the act or process of irradiating or the state of being irradiated. 2. (General Physics) the apparent enlargement of a brightly lit object when it is viewed against a dark background. 3. a shaft of light; beam or ray. 4. (Medicine) med. ir路ra路di路a路tion. n. 1. The act of exposing or the condition of being exposed to radiation. 2. The use or application of ionizing radiation, especially in medical treatment and for the sterilization or preservation of food.
The cumulative impacts of irradiation are the concerns and benefits of irradiation that are not directly related to the chemical changes that occur when food is irradiated, but instead are directly related to what would occur with the continued use and production of irradiated foods. Some common concerns about food irradiation include the impact of irradiation on food chemistry, as well as the cumulative impacts of the irradiation process and the indirect effects of irradiation becoming a prevalent in the food handling process.
The gemstone irradiation is a process in which a gemstone is artificially irradiated in order to enhance its optical properties. High levels of ionizing radiation can change the atomic structure of the gemstone's crystal lattice, which in turn alters the optical properties within it. The term irradiation is a very broad one, which covers bombardment by subatomic particles as well as the use of the full range of electromagnetic radiation, including (in order of increasing frequency and decreasing wavelength) infrared radiation, visible light, ultraviolet radiation, X-rays and gamma rays.
Hypernyms (irradiation is a kind of...): light; visible light; visible radiation ((physics) electromagnetic radiation that can produce a visual sensation). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of irradiation): heat ray (a ray that produces a thermal effect). high beam (the beam of a car's headlights that provides distant illumination). moon ray; moon-ray; moonbeam (a ray of moonlight).
The noun IRRADIATION has 6 senses: 1. the condition of being exposed to radiation. 2. a column of light (as from a beacon). 3. (physiology) the spread of sensory neural impulses in the cortex. 4. the apparent enlargement of a bright object when viewed against a dark background. 5. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of irradiation): heat ray (a ray that produces a thermal effect). high beam (the beam of a car's headlights that provides distant illumination). moon ray; moon-ray; moonbeam (a ray of moonlight).