Javelin procured for light forces anti-tank guided weapon system (LFATGWS). In January 2003, the UK Ministry of Defence announced that it had decided to procure Javelin for the light forces anti-tank guided weapon system (LFATGWS) requirement. The initial order was for 18 launchers and 144 missiles. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A javelin is a long spere that you throw and it sticks in the ground and who ever threw the farthest and got it to stick in the ground wins. 
javelin noun [C]. › a ​long ​stick with a ​pointed end that is ​thrown in ​sports competitions the javelin › a ​competition in which javelins are ​thrown: She was first in the javelin. (Definition of javelin from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). See all translations. 
Bronze, Laconian style, third quarter of the 6th century BC. A javelin is a light spear designed primarily to be thrown, historically as a ranged weapon, but today predominantly for sport. The javelin is almost always thrown by hand, unlike the bow and arrow and slingshot, which shoot projectiles from a mechanism. 
How to Throw a Javelin. The javelin toss, a popular track and field sport in the Olympic games as well as in high school and college, involves hurling a metal-tipped spear as far as possible. Throwing the javelin correctly involves a mastery of technique and requires strength and stability. 
91,371 pages on this wiki. This is the Javelin disambiguation page. Javelin is a German super-criminal and mercenary who has been an enemy to Green Lantern. Beginning his career as an Olympic athlete, he later decided to use his javelin-throwing abilities for evil. His arsenal contains several collapsible high-tech javelins, such as an explosive javelin. This is the Javelin disambiguation page. Javelin is a German super-criminal and mercenary who has been an enemy to Green Lantern. Beginning his career as an Olympic athlete, he later decided to use his javelin-throwing abilities for evil. His arsenal contains se
7,708 pages on this wiki. The FGM-148 Javelin is a guided missile featured in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare: Mobilized, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3: Defiance and Call of Duty Online. 
Now this is looking like a whole lot-a fun. The Javelin is a high performance, single trapeze, 14ft two handed skiff raced competitively throughout New Zealand and Australia. It has a powerful, efficient sail plan allow it to exceed speeds of 25 knots and provide an exhilarating “ride” and exciting fleet racing. 
Two FGM-148 Javelins in real life. The FGM-148 Javelin is an American-made, man-portable third generation Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) launcher manufactured by Raytheon and Lockheed Martin. 
Full Definition of JAVELIN. 1. : a light spear thrown as a weapon of war or in hunting. 2. : a slender usually metal shaft at least 260 centimeters long that is thrown for distance in a field event. : a long spear that people throw as far as they can as a sport. the javelin: an event in which people compete by trying to throw a javelin farther than everyone else.