Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The violence in the Hudson River Valley was your typical class conflict. Tenants rose up against landlords, who controlled not only all of the land but also basically all of the means of production. During an asthma flare, the airways of the body swell and make inhaling/exhaling very difficult. The movement of air through the swollen airways is what causes the wheezing so … und.
The Hudson Valley. The Hudson Valley comprises the valley of the Hudson River and its adjacent communities in the U.S. state of New York, from the cities of Albany and Troy southward to Yonkers in Westchester County. Main article: Pollution of the Hudson River. The most discussed pollution of the Hudson River is General Electric 's contamination of the river with Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) between 1947-77. This pollution caused a range of harmful effects to wildlife and people who eat fish from the river or drink the water.
Previous Table of Contents Next Part The Lenapes: A study of Hudson Valley IndiansPart 3The Lenape: Wars and Diplomacy Before the arrival of the white man in the Hudson Valley the tribes of that area got along withlittle conflict. However, when the Dutch sailed up the Hudson River, this all changed. Table of Contents Next Part The Lenapes: A study of Hudson Valley IndiansPart 1The Lenape: Prehistory When the Europeans came to North America they saw a civilization unlike their own. TheEuropeans saw the Indians as a useful tool in order to become wealthy and prosperous. Theyexploited the Indians and their land.
They wanted to seize control of the Hudson River Valley so that the New England Colonies could be separated from the rest of the country. 
The natural beauty of the Hudson Valley has earned the Hudson River the nickname America's Rhineland, a comparison to the famous 40 mile (65 km) stretch of Germany's Rhine River valley between the cities of Bingen and Koblenz. Main article: Pollution of the Hudson River. The most discussed pollution of the Hudson River is General Electric 's contamination of the river with Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) between 1947-77. This pollution caused a range of harmful effects to wildlife and people who eat fish from the river or drink the water.
Trade with the Caribbean, for salt, sugar and tobacco, was hampered by Spain and delayed because of peace negotiations. Spain offered peace on condition that the Dutch Republic would withdraw from trading with Asia and America. Spain refused to sign the peace treaty if a West Indian Company would be established. 
The Hudson River valley runs more or less north to south down the eastern edge of New York State, cutting through a series of rock types including Triassic sandstones and redbeds in the south and much more ancient Precambrian gneiss in the north (and east). Main article: Pollution of the Hudson River. The most discussed pollution of the Hudson River is General Electric 's contamination of the river with Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) between 1947-77. This pollution caused a range of harmful effects to wildlife and people who eat fish from the river or drink the water.
As Hudson explored costal New Jersey, Brooklyn, and Staten Island, violence broke out between Hudson’s crew and the Indians. Robert Juet claimed that it was the Indians who instigated the attack. 5 As Hudson and the Half Moon traveled further up the river, more encounters with the natives ensued. As Hudson and his crew sailed up river they noticed a native canoe, laden with goods, approaching the Half Moon. After some preliminary discussions, Hudson’s crew members soon began to ply the Indians with alcohol, in order to obtain the more valuable furs the natives had brought with them.
7 Hudson, like other Europeans, used alcohol as a bargaining chip in his endeavors to find profits for his Dutch employers. As Hudson and his crew sailed up river they noticed a native canoe, laden with goods, approaching the Half Moon. After some preliminary discussions, Hudson’s crew members soon began to ply the Indians with alcohol, in order to obtain the more valuable furs the natives had brought with them.
The Hudson Valley During the American Revolution The Dutch settled the Hudson Valley in the early 17th century. The Hudson Valley was of great commercial and military importance during the pre-revolutionary period. In the pre-revolutionary period the Hudson Valley was of great importance. In 1765 the Stamp act Congress met to shake the existing government established by the English.