Anti-aliasing. Sometimes abbreviated as AA, Anti-aliasing is a term used to describe the software process of making the edges of graphic objects or fonts smoother. Accomplished by adding additional pixels in-between the edges of an object and its background. 
Anti-aliasing is a word that’s often thrown around by photographers and gamers when dealing with graphics and images. Take a look at what anti-aliasing is, why we use it, and, most importantly, when it’s best to not use it. It’s an important part of imagemaking and photography—anti-aliasing is certainly something that should be understood as thoroughly as possible to create high quality images.
Definition: Anti-aliasing is a process where the edges of images and fonts have pixels added to blend the edge of the item into the background. The goal of anti-aliasing is to make the fonts and images appear less jagged on a computer monitor and make the curves smoother. Another term for this is font smoothing because it is primarily used on fonts to make them appear smoother. Anti-aliasing can make fonts and GIF images with rounded edges appear smoother, but they often result in a feathered or fuzzy halo around the image unless it is done extremely well. Anti-aliasing can make fonts harder to read on the screen because it reduces their crisp edges and blurs the serifs together.
Use anti-aliasing on GIF images with rounded edges and on large font sizes (14px or larger). Be sure to check your images and look for fuzziness after you anti-alias the edges. I recommend that you don't use anti-aliasing at all unless the pixel stair-stepping is very obvious in your image. Anti-aliasing can make fonts and GIF images with rounded edges appear smoother, but they often result in a feathered or fuzzy halo around the image unless it is done extremely well. Anti-aliasing can make fonts harder to read on the screen because it reduces their crisp edges and blurs the serifs together.
Font rasterization is the process of converting text from a vector description (as found in scalable fonts such as TrueType fonts) to a raster or bitmap description. D-Type Font Engine is an independent, proprietary and portable font rasterization library. It provides anti-aliasing, subpixel precision, automatic hinting, bitmap filtering and other techniques that can improve the appearance and legibility of text on screen.