All members of the subfamily Opuntioideae have glochids: numerous, very small spines that are deciduous. Opuntia polyacantha. Plants of this Tephrocactus are always tiny, but they are fierce -- their spines are 2 or 3 times longer than the rest of the body. Not all cacti have spines. This peyote (Lophophora williamsii) has hundreds of trichomes in each axillary bud, but no spines. Travel. Published papers. Cactus Spines. The evolutionary conversion of leaves to spines in cacti. One defining feature of cacti is having clusters of spines. Numerous plants have spines of course, but in cacti, spines occur in clusters in the axil of leaves, even though the leaves are usually microscopic.
Flowers. Travel. Published papers. Cactus Spines. The evolutionary conversion of leaves to spines in cacti. One defining feature of cacti is having clusters of spines. Numerous plants have spines of course, but in cacti, spines occur in clusters in the axil of leaves, even though the leaves are usually microscopic.
Lymantria dispar dispar, commonly known as the gypsy moth, European gypsy moth, or North American gypsy moth, is a moth in the family Erebidae that is of Eurasian origin. It has a range which covers Europe, Africa, and North America. Lymantria dispar dispar has been designated a sub-species of Lymantria dispar. It is classified as a pest, and its larvae consume the leaves of over 500 species of trees, shrubs and plants. The gypsy moth is one of the most destructive pests of hardwood trees in the eastern United States.
Photographic Location: The photographs were taken at a sandy meadow near Kickapoo State Park in Vermilion County, Illinois, and at a sand prairie of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore in NW Indiana. Comments: The Eastern Prickly Pear (Opuntia humifusa) is a striking plant with large beautiful flowers. It has fewer spines than many western species of prickly pear (Opuntia spp. ), but they are still fairly formidable. Description: This perennial plant is –2' tall. It consists of a single pad (swollen stem) that is partially inserted in the ground, from which 1-2 additional sessile pads may develop from its upper curved margin. These fleshy pads are usually erect or ascending, although sometimes they sprawl horizontally
These species can be distinguished by the following differences: 1  O. monacantha is a relatively tall shrub or tree-like plant (usually 2-5 m tall) with flattened and elongated (oblong or obovate) cladodes. 2  These cladodes are hairless and have one or two large spines on most of the areoles on their surfaces. Introduced, naturalised or invasive in East Africa. Opuntia monacantha is invasive in parts of Kenya, naturalised in parts of Tanzania and is present in Uganda (A.B.R. Witt pers. obs.).
The small size of the glochids does not cause much pain, but is rather highly irritating. As such, these have been collected for use in the making of itching powder. Opuntia flowers are typically yellow, sometimes pink, and rarely white or anywhere inbetween these colors. Flowers are cup-shaped and do not have floral tubes, but instead the pericarples resemble round, extensions of the cladodes. It is impossible to determine if new growth is going to be a flower or a new cladode as they are identical when first appearing-often covered with cone-shaped deciduous leaves. Many people despise the Opuntia, even those who otherwise love growing cacti. In recent times, however, there seems to be a renewed interest in the genus-particularly the species native to the Southwest U.S. and it is gaining in popularity.
Description: Prickly Pear is a native perennial in the Cactus family (Cactaceae) that spreads along the ground and grows to 0.5 m tall. The pads (stem segments) are glossy green and have areolas (areas where spines are attached) with minute, barbed, deciduous spines called glochids. Aids to Identification: Prickly Pear can be observed any time of year, though it is easiest to find in summer when the showy yellow flowers are present. The pads are oblong-obovate, about 5 to 17.5 cm × 4 to 12 cm in size, and dark to shiny green with areolas arranged in a diagonal pattern.
Etymology-Beleived to refer to a Greek region-Locris Opuntia with the town of Opus in Greece where other spiny plants grew. Opuntia is the most widespread of all genera in the cactus family. Many people despise the Opuntia, even those who otherwise love growing cacti. In recent times, however, there seems to be a renewed interest in the genus-particularly the species native to the Southwest U.S. and it is gaining in popularity.