The main difference between monozygotic and dizygotic twins is that monozygotic twins originate from a single zygote — or fertilized egg — and dizygotic twins come from two zygotes. Monozygotic twins are also called identical twins or maternal twins, and dizygotic twins are also called fraternal twins. Another difference between monozygotic and dizygotic twins is how common they are; about 30 percent of twins are monozygotic, and the other 70 percent are dizygotic. Another difference between monozygotic twins and dizygotic twins is that only monozygotic twins can be conjoined, which means that some parts of their bodies are joined or shared. Many scientists believe that this occurs when the original zygote begins to separate after more than 12 days and is unable to fully divide.
Dizygotic twins develop from two separate ova fertilized by different sperm at roughly the same time, they are also called fraternal twins. Monozygotic twins develop from one … zygote that splits apart producing genetically identical zygotes; also called identical twins. + 4 others found this useful. Noor Sharmila. Identical twins are genetically the same, because they come from the same fertilized egg/sperm cell zygote, which happens to split into two viable zygotes.   Fraternal t … wins, however, come from two different egg/sperm cell zygotes, that are concurrently fertilized and remain viable. 3 people
monozygotic twins, two offspring born of the same pregnancy and developed from a single fertilized ovum that splits into equal halves during an early cleavage phase in embryonic development, giving rise to separate fetuses. 
Identical (Monozygotic) Twins. Identical Twins (Flickr: evilpeacock). Identical twins came from a single egg that split into two. They’re genetically identical and (obviously) always the same gender. Early first trimester ultrasound scan can identify approximately two-thirds of monozygotic twins. Our own twins were mis-diagnosed at a second-trimester ultrasound as identical (they weren’t). Fraternal twins came from different eggs and are siblings, but not genetically identical. This is the more common type of twin, representing about two-thirds of twin pregnancies. When conceived naturally, fraternal twins indicate that two eggs were released by the mother’s ovaries instead of one.
Zygosity refers to the similarity between the genomes of each twin. Fraternal twins are dizygotic, meaning that they developed from two different eggs fertilized by two different sperms. Their genetic code is as similar (or dissimilar) as any other siblings. Identical twins are monozygotic, meaning that they developed from the same fertilized egg, and so have nearly identical genetic code. They almost always have the same gender and many of the same physical characteristics (phenotypes). Diffen › Science › Biology › Microbiology. Fraternal twins are “dizygotic,” meaning that they developed from two different eggs fertilized by two different sperm cells, while identical twins are “monozygotic” i.e., they developed from a single fertilized egg that split.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Identical twins start out as genetically identical: they have the same alleles. They are formed by a fertilised egg dividing into two separate individuals. They are always of the same sex, and are monozygotic or MZ twins (mono = one; zygote = fertilised egg). This contrasts with fraternal twins, who are formed by two separate eggs fertilised by two separate sperms, and who are not always the same sex (DZ = dizygotic). Although monozygotic twins are genetically almost identical, a 2012 study of 92 pairs of monozygotic twins found that monozygotic twins acquire hundreds of genetic differences early in foetal development. This is caused by mutations (or copy errors) taking place in the DNA of each twin after the splitting of the embryo.
Monozygotic twins have very similar, but not identical DNA. Monozygotic twins come from a zygote that divides into two. Boy/girl twins are always fraternal -- or dizygotic, as they can only form from separate eggs fertilized by separate sperm. Another difference between monozygotic twins and dizygotic twins is that only monozygotic twins can be conjoined, which means that some parts of their bodies are joined or shared. Many scientists believe that this occurs when the original zygote begins to separate after more than 12 days and is unable to fully divide.
Monozygotic twins are genetically nearly identical and they are always the same sex unless there has been a mutation during development. Monozygotic twins always have different phenotypes. Although monozygotic twins are genetically almost identical, a 2012 study of 92 pairs of monozygotic twins found that monozygotic twins acquire hundreds of genetic differences early in foetal development. This is caused by mutations (or copy errors) taking place in the DNA of each twin after the splitting of the embryo.
Comparison of zygote development in monozygotic and dizygotic twins. In the uterus, a majority of monozygotic twins (60–70%) share the same placenta but have separate amniotic sacs. In 18–30% of monozygotic twins each fetus has a separate placenta and a separate amniotic sac. A small number (1–2%) of monozygotic twins share the same placenta and amniotic sac