In practice, some European countries depend heavily on energy imports and are highly vulnerable to global energy shocks. The EU is the world's largest importer of oil and gas. It imports 82 percent of its oil and 57 percent of its gas. With Russia consolidating its control of European and Central Asian energy, and in view of Europe's dependence on the Persian Gulf, Europe desperately needs to cooperate on energy security. Europe and the U.S. should work together to mitigate the adverse effects of Europe's strategic dependence on Russia.
• Libya supplies the oil for China. Libya does supply some oil to China, but it’s not as large as Trump’s statement implies. The EIA showed that Libya’s No. 1 customer is Italy, which bought 28 percent of Libya’s exports in 2010. Italy was followed by France, at 15 percent, then China, at 11 percent. Trump said, Libya supplies the oil for China. We get no oil from Libya.. His point in the first sentence was clearly that Libya was a major supplier of oil for China. But the data do not support his claim.
Whatever the figure, the typical French home or factory probably does not get 78 percent of its energy from nuclear power. Of all the electricity France produces domestically (most but not all of which is consumed domestically), 78 percent is from nuclear plants. (corrected) Nicolas Sarkozy cited 50 percent as the amount of nuclear energy in France. Segolene Royal cited 17 percent. Neither cited the more popular 78 percent figure. Analysts spent the day searching for the truth.
1 78 percent of the electricity generated in France -- 419 TWh out of 537 TWh -- is nuclear power. 2  Consumption is 81 percent of production, and production is less than capacity, so these simple calculations do not necessarily represent nuclear's share of domestic energy consumption, although they could. (corrected) Nicolas Sarkozy cited 50 percent as the amount of nuclear energy in France. Segolene Royal cited 17 percent. Neither cited the more popular 78 percent figure. Analysts spent the day searching for the truth.
France gets its oil from Gabon, Libya, Nigeria, Saoudi Arabia and so on. In reference to the Franks, a region a few kilometers north  of Paris was also named France. That name is still existing in  place names like Roisssy-en-France.
France was named after a Germanic tribe, the  Franks, who settled in Northern France, and whose kings  came to preeminence after the fall of the Roman Empire.   The Fr … anks held a large territory in nowadays Belgium, Northern  France and down to Paris. At the time the word Frank also meant  'free'. In reference to the Franks, a region a few kilometers north  of Paris was also named France. That name is still existing in  place names like Roisssy-en-France.
Russia is consolidating its grip on oil and gas-the economic lifeblood of Europe. Moscow is pursuing a comprehensive strategy that could increase Europe's political and economic dependence on Russian energy. With Russia consolidating its control of European and Central Asian energy, and in view of Europe's dependence on the Persian Gulf, Europe desperately needs to cooperate on energy security. Europe and the U.S. should work together to mitigate the adverse effects of Europe's strategic dependence on Russia.
Oil and gas comprise over 60% of Russia's exports and make up over 30% of the country's gross domestic product (GDP). Russia energy policy of pumping 10.6 million barrels of oil a day is nearly 4 billion barrels annually. Russia proven oil reserves are 100 billion barrels. The Energy policy of Russia is contained in an Energy Strategy document, which sets out policy for the period up to 2020.
Crude oil prices have decline from over a 100 dollars a barrel in 2014 to below 50 US dollars in 2015. Russia tried and failed to get OPEC support for production cutbacks and is now ramping up its oil production to reduce the drop in oil revenues. OPEC's oil glut supply policy has affected the Russian economy. The Energy policy of Russia is contained in an Energy Strategy document, which sets out policy for the period up to 2020.
France is the third-largest oil-consuming country in Europe, and has very little petroleum reserves. Almost all of its oil is imported, primarily from the Middle East, Norway and the United Kingdom. Purely on the basis of electricity, France is a net energy exporter. France, the third-largest generator and consumer of electricity in all of Europe, generates more electricity than it consumes. (corrected) Nicolas Sarkozy cited 50 percent as the amount of nuclear energy in France. Segolene Royal cited 17 percent. Neither cited the more popular 78 percent figure. Analysts spent the day searching for the truth.