A Standard Score of 70 indicates that the examinee scored 2 standard deviations above the mean. To learn more about how standard scores are derived and used, click here. Examinees also receive a score on what is called the Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT). AFQT scores are computed using the Standard Scores from four ASVAB subtests: Arithmetic Reasoning (AR), Mathematics Knowledge (MK), Paragraph Comprehension (PC), and Word Knowledge (WK). Standard Scores are scores that have a fixed mean and standard deviation in the population of examinees. A Standard Score indicates how many units of the standard deviation a particular score is above or below the mean. In the case of the ASVAB subtests, the mean is set to 50 and the standard deviation is set to 10.
However, the military services have even stricter standards for enlistment. Computing the AFQT Score. To compute your AFQT score, the military takes your Verbal Expression (VE) score, and doubles it. They then add it to your Mathematics Knowledge (MK) and Arithmetic Reasoning (AR) raw scores. The Formula is 2VE+MK+AR. 
The Armed Forces Qualification Test or AFQT is the combination of four ASVAB subtests—Word Knowledge (WK), Arithmetic Reasoning (AR), Paragraph Comprehension (PC) and Mathematics Knowledge (MK). The term AFQT may also refer to the score computed from these four components. 1 Take the sum and convert it to a scaled score, known as the Verbal Expression (VE) score, which ranges from 20 to 62. 2  The VE score is doubled, and then added to the Arithmetic Reasoning (AR) score and the Mathematics Knowledge (MK) score to get the AFQT raw score.
The AFQT score is not computed with the Arithmetic Reasoning and the Math Knowledge line scores that you see on your ASVAB scores sheet. The score used to compute the AFQT score is a weighted score based on the difficulty level of the question. The AFQT. Your AFQT score is your scores from Arithmetic Reasoning, Math Knowledge and Verbal Composite x 2. It is used to determine if you are eligible to join a particular branch of the military. Your Verbal Composite score is your Word Knowledge plus Paragraph Comprehension scores
An AFQT percentile score indicates the percentage of examinees in a reference group who scored at or below that particular score. For current AFQT scores, the reference group is a sample of 18 to 23 year old youth who took the ASVAB as part of a national norming study conducted in 1997. Your scores from four of the tests Word Knowledge (WK), Paragraph Comprehension (PC), Arithmetic Reasoning (AR), and Mathematics Knowledge (MK) are combined to compute your score on what is referred to as the Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT).
An AFQT percentile score indicates the percentage of examinees in a reference group that scored at or below that particular score. For current AFQT scores, the reference group is a sample of 18 to 23 year old youth who took the ASVAB as part of a national norming study conducted in 1997. Thus, an AFQT score of 90 indicates that the examinee scored as well as or better than 90% of the nationally-representative sample of 18 to 23 year old youth. Standard Scores are scores that have a fixed mean and standard deviation in the population of examinees. A Standard Score indicates how many units of the standard deviation a particular score is above or below the mean. In the case of the ASVAB subtests, the mean is set to 50 and the standard deviation is set to 10.
Getting the AFQT score formula. To get your AFQT raw score, the computer doubles your VE score and then adds your Arithmetic Reasoning (AR) score and your Mathematics Knowledge (MK) score to it. Here’s the formula: AFQT raw score = 2VE + AR + MK. You don’t get to see what your AFQT raw score is on your ASVAB score sheet. The score goes toward computing the AFQT score as well as many of the military’s line scores. The military brass determine your VE score by first adding the value of your Word Knowledge (WK) raw score to your Paragraph Comprehension (PC) raw score. The result is then converted to a scaled score ranging from 20 to 62.
The ASVAB has 10 tests. Your scores from four of the tests Word Knowledge (WK), Paragraph Comprehension (PC), Arithmetic Reasoning (AR), and Mathematics Knowledge (MK) are combined to compute your score on what is referred to as the Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT).
An AFQT percentile score indicates the percentage of examinees in a reference group that scored at or below that particular score. For current AFQT scores, the reference group is a sample of 18 to 23 year old youth who took the ASVAB as part of a national norming study conducted in 1997. Thus, an AFQT score of 90 indicates that the examinee scored as well as or better than 90% of the nationally-representative sample of 18 to 23 year old youth.