1 Most broken bones heal quicker when properly repositioned, compressed and immobilized. 2  Casts are made of a soft bandage and a hard covering (such as plaster of Paris). 3  They usually need to stay on for between 4-12 weeks, depending on which bone is broken and how badly. 2. Put some weight on it. In addition to some light movements in the joints surrounding your broken bone, putting some weight on it after a week or so can be beneficial — especially for weight-bearing bones of the legs and pelvis.
Introduction. A broken arm or wrist is usually caused by a fall onto an outstretched arm. It typically takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and less time in children. Doctors refer to all breaks or cracks in bones as fractures. How a broken arm or wrist is treated. A broken arm or wrist is usually treated in a hospital accident and emergency department. The treatment differs depending on the severity of the injury. A doctor will give you or your child painkillers and fix a splint to the arm to secure it in position and prevent further damage.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There's really no way you can get a broken bone bone heal faster. It depends on what bone you broke,where you broke it,how many places it broke,and the severity of the break on how long it takes to heal. I broke a little bone in my left wrist called the Scaphoid twice. It took mine 4 months to heal both times and it was hell being in the cast. If your arm's hurting,get an ice pack,a towel,something to do,some pain relievers,or the pain medicine they gave you
For most adult dogs or cats, broken bone healing time is 8 to 12 weeks. In puppies or kittens, broken bone healing time is 6 to 9 weeks. Complicated fractures can take as much as 16 weeks. Delayed Union and Non-Union Fractures. 
You should find out how to heal a broken arm faster if you have suffered this type of injury. Listen to what your doctor tells you, and try not to overdo it during your recovery period. If you can take some time off of work to rest and recover, that can help you heal a broken arm faster. Things You May Need: 1  Physical therapy. 2  Bone stimulator. 3  Ask the doctor if they can refer you to a physical therapist. 1 See if the doctor or therapist will give you an arm immobilizer. 2  Rather than using a standard sling, an immobilizer keeps your arm secured against your body. 3  This can help you heal a broken arm faster, since you will not be able to move your arm accidentally. 4  Follow the physical therapist’s instructions.
The time for a broken collarbone to fully heal depends on the severity of the injury. In children, complete healing may take as little as three to six weeks. In adults, six to 16 weeks or more are often necessary for a collarbone to heal solidly. Unfortunately, during that time there is no way to completely immobilize a collarbone fracture to keep it from moving and, thus, speed healing, as can be done using a cast on other broken bones, such as a wrist, arm or leg.
1 This device uses ultrasound to help heal a broken arm faster. 2  If the doctor agrees to permit you to use the device, make sure your insurance will cover the cost of the bone stimulator, since they can be expensive. 1 See if the doctor or therapist will give you an arm immobilizer. 2  Rather than using a standard sling, an immobilizer keeps your arm secured against your body. 3  This can help you heal a broken arm faster, since you will not be able to move your arm accidentally. 4  Follow the physical therapist’s instructions.
The length of time taken for healing depends on where the fracture is and how severe the break is. For example, a simple buckle fracture will need a plaster cast for 2 to 3 weeks and be almost completely healed in 4 weeks. Children heal in about half the time it takes an adult to heal from a similar injury. 