Description [edit]. The Standard Carrier Alpha Code, a two-to-four letter identification, is used (in the United States) by transportation industry to identify freight carriers in computer systems and shipping documents such as Bill of Lading, Freight Bill, Packing List, and Purchase Order. The standard carrier alpha code on an NYK Line container indicating NYKU 2938412. The Standard Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC) is a unique code used to identify transportation companies. It is typically two to four alphabetic letters long
Revised: 12/20/06 National Motor Freight Traffic Association, Inc. 1001 North Fairfax Street, Suite 600 Alexandria, VA 22314 (703) 838-1822 Directory of Standard Carrier Alpha Codes (SCAC) Data Documentation 1.0 Overview This CD-ROM contains data files of the Directory of Standard Carrier Alpha Codes (SCAC). 
The alpha thalassemias can be generally categorized as: Silent Carrier, Alpha Thalassemia Trait, Hemoglobin H disease, Hemoglobin H-Constant Spring, and Alpha Thalassemia major. Frequently, the diagnosis of alpha thalassemia trait in a parent is discovered after the birth of an affected child. Two Constant Spring carriers can also pass on their genes to have a child with Homozygous Constant Spring, a condition that has similar clinical implications as Hemoglobin H disease. Alpha thalassemia trait is characterized by two functional genes that code for the production of alpha globins [(-α/-α) or (--/αα)].
SCAC stands for Standard Carrier Alpha Code. Suggest new definition. This definition appears frequently and is found in the following Acronym Finder categories: 1  Information technology (IT) and computers. 2  Science, medicine, engineering, etc. Samples in periodicals archive: Users of PetroWeb have access to additional information online, including data waiting alerts, send/receive logs, and searchable online databases for Standard Point Location Codes (SPLC), Standard Carrier Alpha Codes (SCAC) and product codes.
SCACs are published in the Directory of Standard Carrier Alpha Codes, NMF 101 Series, copyrighted by the National Motor Freight Traffic Association, Inc. (NMFTA). The SCAC application fee is $65.00 ($73.00 if payment is made by check in U.S. dollars payable through a Canadian bank). 
The Standard Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC ®) is a unique two-to-four-letter code used to identify transportation companies. NMFTA developed the SCAC identification codes in the mid 1960's to facilitate computerization in the transportation industry. All material contained in the printed copy, SCAC Online and electronic versions of the Directory of Standard Carrier Alpha Codes (SCAC) and supplements thereto, is protected by the Copyright laws of the United States and Canada. All rights reserved.
The Standard Carrier Alpha Codes are published by the National Motor Freight Traffic Association, Inc., in the Directory of Standard Carrier Alpha Codes (SCAC) . The Directory is updated on a quarterly basis and is reissued annually. All material contained in the printed copy, SCAC Online and electronic versions of the Directory of Standard Carrier Alpha Codes (SCAC) and supplements thereto, is protected by the Copyright laws of the United States and Canada. All rights reserved.
The most severe form of alpha thalassemia is Alpha Thalassemia Major or hydrops fetalis, characterized by a deletion of all four genes that code for alpha globins (--/--). This diagnosis is frequently made in the last months of pregnancy when fetal ultrasound indicates a hydropic fetus. Two Constant Spring carriers can also pass on their genes to have a child with Homozygous Constant Spring, a condition that has similar clinical implications as Hemoglobin H disease. Alpha thalassemia trait is characterized by two functional genes that code for the production of alpha globins [(-α/-α) or (--/αα)].