Parents: Medusa-Pegasus was born from the blood of her severed head when Perseus killed her. His brother Chrysaor was born at the same moment; Chrysaor was not a horse though little is known of his appearance and he may have been a giant. Poseidon was the father of Chrysaor and may also have been the father of Pegasus. 
by Mark Cartwright. Pegasus (or Pegasos) is a winged-horse from Greek mythology which was fathered by Poseidon and was born from the severed neck of the gorgon Medusa, slain by Perseus. At the same time and in the same way, Chryasor was also born. 
RSS Feeds. Pegasus was a winged horse that came out of Medusa when she was be-headed by Perseus. The Gorgon Medusa was once a beautiful Lybian princess. Because she was seduced by the sea god Poseidon in the temple consecrated to Athena, Athena transformed her into a monster. After his birth, Pegasus lived on the Mount Helicon. One day, an ancient Greek hero whose name was Bellerophon believed that he could fly with Pegasus to Olympus, where the gods lived. To prevent him from doing that, Zeus sent a horsefly to bite Pegasus. Bellerophon lost control of his horse and fell back to Earth.
Friend of the Muses, Pegasus is the creator of Hippocrene, the fountain on Mt. Helicon. He was captured by the Greek hero Bellerophon near the fountain Peirene with the help of Athena and Poseidon. Pegasus allows the hero to ride him to defeat a monster, the Chimera, before realizing many other exploits.
Pegasus (Ancient Greek: πήγασος, Pēgasos; Latin: Pegasus) is one of the best known creatures in Greek mythology. He is a winged divine stallion usually depicted as pure white in color. He was sired by Poseidon, in his role as horse-god, and foaled by the Gorgon Medusa. He was captured by the Greek hero Bellerophon near the fountain Peirene with the help of Athena and Poseidon. Pegasus allows the hero to ride him to defeat a monster, the Chimera, before realizing many other exploits.
Pegasus was a flying horse in Greek mythology, usually depicted as white coloured. His father was Poseidon and his mother was the Gorgon Medusa; he was born along with his brother Chrysaor when Medusa was decapitated by Perseus. Pegasus was captured and tamed by the Greek hero Bellerophon and helped him in his fights against the Chimera and the Amazons. Later, Bellerophon continued riding Pegasus on their way to Mount Olympus, but Zeus dismounted him on the way; Pegasus continued on the journey and reached Olympus.
Pegasus was the winged horse best known for his association with the Greek hero Bellerophon. The manner of the horse’s birth was unusual, to say the least. Its mother was Medusa, the Gorgon, who in her youth was famed for her beauty, particularly her flowing hair. 
Pegasus. The Story of Pegasus from Ancient MythologyRead about the Roman and Greek gods & goddesses of the Ancient World in the story of Pegasus. PegasusThe short mythical story of Pegasus is one of the famous legends that feature in the mythology of ancient civilizations. Discover the history of the ancient Roman and Greek gods and goddesses. Interesting information about the gods and goddesses featuring Pegasus in a short story format. The Short Story and Myth of PegasusThe myth about Pegasus is featured in the book entitled The story of Pegasus is featured in the book entitled A Hand-Book of Greek and Roman Mythology. The Myths and Legends of Ancient Greece and Rome by E.M. Berens, published in 1894 by Maynard, Merrill, & Co., New York
Pegasus belongs to the Perseus family of constellations, along with with Andromeda, Auriga, Cassiopeia, Cepheus, Cetus, Lacerta, Perseus, and Triangulum. MYTH. In Greek mythology, Pegasus is a white winged horse that sprang from the neck of the Gorgon Medusa when Perseus beheaded her. Medusa was a beautiful young woman before she was turned into a monster by the goddess Athena after being caught being defiled by the sea god Poseidon in the goddess’ temple.