The best time to visit Israel. Israel is a year round destinations which experiences a typical Mediterranean climate, mostly warm and cloudless throughout the year with lengthy hot summers and cool, rainy winters. Israel Seasons Israel Climate | Jerusalem.
The summer season from June to September in both countries is also high season, just as it is in the other countries which attract sun worshipping holiday makers. In Egypt Sharm el Sheikh, Ghurdaka, and Marsa Allam are all really popular at this time of year, and Eilat and Aqaba in Israel.
The winter months of November to March are the coldest in Israel with snow in the northern reaches of the Golan Heights, and occasional snow fall in Jerusalem. The coast experiences the heaviest rainfall at this time though temperatures in places like Eilat are reasonably pleasant still.
The best time to visit Egypt's Western desert is October-February, but nights will be very cold. If you're planning a trip to the Siwa Oasis or anywhere west of Cairo in the desert, then the average temperatures for Aswan (scroll down) are a good indicator of what to expect.
Most seasoned travelers will suggest late November as the best time to visit Israel and Egypt, because it is not too wet and not too hot at this time of year. Another good time to go and when there are plenty of cheap travel deals around is early March, when the weather is quite similar to that of late November.
The Israeli airline El Al (elal.co.il) flies from Cairo International to Tel Aviv’s Yafo or Ben Gurion International Airports, taking one hour and 20 minutes to one hour 35 minutes. Should you travel by land, you may select between two border crossings between Egypt and Israel.
Answer: The best time to visit Egypt is from October through April, especially if you wish to see Egypt's ancient sights like the Pyramids of Giza, the Temples of Luxor and Abu Simbel.
Find out more about when to go to Egypt below including: Average temperatures; best time to take a cruise on the Nile; best time to visit the Red Sea; best time to visit Egypt's Western desert; Ramadan and travel to Egypt.