The CDC estimates that measles antibodies develop in approximately 98 percent of children vaccinated at 15 months or older. It is estimated that about 2-5 percent of children, who receive the vaccine at 12 months of age or younger or who only get one dose of MMR, fail to be protected. A second dose or MMR is thought to stimulate a protective immune response in about 99 percent of vaccine recipients.
Top of Page. Measles can be prevented with the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine. One dose of MMR vaccine is about 93% effective at preventing measles if exposed to the virus, and two doses are about 97% effective. In the United States, widespread use of measles vaccine has led to a greater than 99% reduction in measles cases compared with the pre-vaccine era. 1 Infants 6 through 11 months of age should receive one dose of MMR vaccine. 2  Infants who get one dose of MMR vaccine before their first birthday should get two more doses (one dose at 12 through 15 months of age and another dose at least 28 days later).
The MMR vaccine is an immunization vaccine against measles, mumps, and rubella (German measles) . It is a mixture of live attenuated viruses of the three diseases, administered via injection. It was first developed by Maurice Hilleman while at Merck. A licensed vaccine to prevent measles first became available in 1963, an improved measles vaccine in 1968. Vaccines for the mumps and rubella became available in 1967 and 1969, respectively.
Jae C. Hong/AP. The measles vaccine is actually one of the most effective vaccines in the world. According to Greg Wallace, lead of the measles, mumps, rubella and polio team at the CDC, two doses are 97 percent effective against infection. 
MMR vaccine. MMR is a safe and effective combined vaccine that protects against three separate illnesses – measles, mumps and rubella (german measles) – in a single injection. The full course of MMR vaccination requires two doses. 
Measles vaccine is a vaccine that is very effective at preventing measles. After one dose 85% of children nine months of age and 95% over twelve months of age are immune. Nearly all of those who do not develop immunity after a single dose develop it after a second dose. 
The measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine provides long-lasting protection against all strains of measles, as well as 2 other viral diseases—mumps and rubella. These 3 vaccines are safe given together. MMR is an attenuated (weakened) live virus vaccine. 
By comparison, one dose alone of the MMR vaccine is 93 percent effective at preventing measles, according to the CDC, and at least 90 percent effective at warding off rubella, according to the Immunization Action Coalition. The vaccine to protect against measles, mumps and rubella varies in how well it wards off each illness. Of the three diseases the MMR vaccine is designed to treat, it is least effective against the mumps. By Kimberly Leonard. + More. An outbreak of measles in recent weeks has reminded the American public about the importance of vaccinations and sparked concern about immunization rates among health officials
But the MMR vaccine used to protect against the measles is also used to protect against mumps and rubella. And of the three viruses, the MMR vaccine is the least effective at protecting against the mumps. The virus causes salivary glands to become swollen and tender on one or both sides of the face, resulting in enlarged cheeks. The vaccine to protect against measles, mumps and rubella varies in how well it wards off each illness. Of the three diseases the MMR vaccine is designed to treat, it is least effective against the mumps. By Kimberly Leonard. + More. An outbreak of measles in recent weeks has reminded the American public about the importance of vaccinations and sparked concern about immunization rates among health official