Regardless of your nationality or immigration status, you can apply for a transfer to another council or housing association home if you already have: 1  a secure or introductory council tenancy. 2  an assured or starter housing association tenancy. You can also apply to go on the council housing waiting list if you are eligible. If you are single and not eligible for help as a homeless person, you may be able to get a place in a night shelter. Find out where you can get help if you are a homeless EU or EEA national.
The council may help you with emergency accommodation. You can also apply to go on the council housing waiting list if you are eligible. If you are single and not eligible for help as a homeless person, you may be able to get a place in a night shelter. Find out where you can get help if you are a homeless EU or EEA national.
The council can't allow you onto the waiting list or housing register if you are not eligible. You are usually eligible to apply for council housing if you are a British citizen or a citizen who has the right to stay in the UK for an unlimited time. You won't be allowed to apply if you have a short-term immigration status or if the terms of your stay say you can't have recourse to public funds. You can also apply to go on the council housing waiting list if you are eligible. If you are single and not eligible for help as a homeless person, you may be able to get a place in a night shelter. Find out where you can get help if you are a homeless EU or EEA national.
You are only charged a small marketing fee or no fee. The buyer pays the agent's fee on completion of the sale. It is not against the law for an estate agent to sell a property by a tender process but it can be confusing for the seller and buyer if the agent isn't clear about the process. You don't have to agree to sell your property by the tender process
Deposit for a private rent, so that wouldn't be cheap) I think the HA are trying to fob you off by saying thy dont have to maintain the flat because it was a swap. This in itself is irrelevant. However I don't know what your contract says and what your council area policy is. If its affecting you baby's health, get. 267. I have had both council and private... the council ones are great for repairs and not hassling you and the place is usually a blank canvas, but it is costly to do the place up. Ive had private lets through estate agents....
Answers. Best Answer: I know a lady recently who is over 65, rung the council in our local area and said she was looking for a bungalow. She called the council said she had a house of her own, they said don't worry about it and within a week she was offered a bungalow. Source(s): Not Everyone has the same Opinion · 5 years ago. 
Best Answer: I'm a social housing officer, working in local authority housing. I can only speak for my own local authority, but you would definitely get priority for a bungalow if you could provide medical proof that your mum is likely to need a wheelchair soon. Contact you local councillor or find out through your local press where they hold their councillor's surgeries and go and see them. A good councillor will almost always help a disabled person. With Maggie Thatcher's policy of the Right to Buy council houses, there isn't a lot out there.
I would say private, that way you have more control over where you live and what area. Basically your not restricted to council estates. We have rented our house for 4 years and our landlord has just signed another 2 year contract. If you are going to rent privately however I would not go through an estate agency. 267. I have had both council and private... the council ones are great for repairs and not hassling you and the place is usually a blank canvas, but it is costly to do the place up. Ive had private lets through estate agents....
dont do it. i live in private rented because i couldnt get a council place. the council will never give you all the rent towrads the house so you will have to pay some yourself. (i have to pay 200 a month myself from my benefits) and then when your husband does go back to work they will only make you pay more yourself. It isn't up to the council to house you adequately just because you keep having more children. Because we've always wanted a large family and don't see why the size of the house should stop us. My last baby was not exactly planned but i'm keeping the baby as i don't do abortions.