Cervical radiculopathy, commonly called a pinched nerve occurs when a nerve in the neck is compressed or irritated where it branches away from the spinal cord. This may cause pain that radiates into the shoulder, as well as muscle weakness and numbness that travels down the arm and into the hand. 
Pinched median nerve. A pinched nerve occurs when too much pressure (compression) is applied to a nerve by surrounding tissues. In some cases, this tissue might be bone or cartilage, such as in the case of a herniated spinal disk that compresses a nerve root. 
Pinched Nerve in Neck Causes. To better understand causes of a pinched nerve in the neck, conditions of the cervical spine should be examined. As it leaves the spine, a nerve can be affected by an unwanted condition such as a neck bone spur (osteophytes) or a bulging, or herniated neck disc compressing the nerve. 
1 A pinched nerve in the neck can cause neck pain or stiffness, along with symptoms down the arm. 2  A pinched nerve in the lower back causes back pain and stiffness with symptoms down the leg. 1 A pinched nerve in the lower back causes back pain and stiffness with symptoms down the leg. 2  A doctor can often identify which nerve is pinched in the neck or lower back based on what portion of the patient's arm or leg is affected.
A pinched nerve in the neck or lower back can be caused by a herniated disc, arthritis, bone spurs, or spinal stenosis. If the doctor suspects the patient has a pinched nerve (compression of the nerves) in the neck or lower back, X-rays may be necessary to assess possible injury to the spine or arthritis of the spine. Depending on the severity and duration of the patient's symptoms, he or she may also need a CT scan or an MRI scan
Symptoms of a pinched nerve in your neck, all of which can extend down into your arms and all the way to your hands and fingers, include: 1  Pain that radiates from your neck. 2  Numbness, burning, or a prickling sensation. 3  Problems with sensation. 4  Feeling weakness. 
Causes of Pinched Nerves. A pinched nerve occurs when there is compression (pressure) on a nerve. The pressure may be the result of repetitive motions. Or it may happen from holding your body in one position for long periods, such as keeping elbows bent while sleeping. These symptoms may result from changes that develop in the spine 's discs and bones. For example, if a disc weakens or tears -- known as a herniated disc -- pressure can get put on a spinal nerve. Nerve compression in your neck or arm may also cause symptoms in areas such as your: 1  Elbow. 2  Hand. 3  Wrist. 4  Fingers.