1 Kidney pain can be on the left, right, or both sides. 2  Causes of kidney pain are diagnosed with the patient's history and physical examination, and lab tests including blood, pregnancy, and urine tests. 3  A CT scan or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis may be ordered.
The kidneys are paired organs located toward the back of your body, partially protected by your lower ribs. Your left kidney is slightly higher than your right. Pain from the kidneys tends to occur in the flanks or in the lower back just under the ribs, although it can extend into the groin and testicles.
1 Causes of kidney pain are mainly urinary tract infections and kidney stones. 2  However, there are many other causes of kidney pain. 3  If a woman is pregnant and has kidney pain she should contact her doctor. 4  Symptoms of kidney pain may include. 5  fever, 6  painful urination, 7  flank pain, 8  nausea and/or vomiting.
Kidney pain — also called renal pain — refers to pain arising from infection, injury or inflammation of a kidney. You may feel kidney pain as a dull, one-sided ache in your upper back, often accompanied by fever and urinary symptoms. Some people are surprised to learn exactly where the kidneys are located.
Kidney pain is caused by infection, inflammation, injury or enlargement of the kidney, or by conditions that block the flow of urine out of the kidney. Pyelonephritis (kidney infection) and kidney stones are the most common causes of kidney pain.
Your kidneys are located relatively high in your body, under your lower ribs. It's not unusual to attribute back pain or side (flank) pain to your kidneys. But more often than not, your kidneys probably aren't the cause of your back or flank pain.
1 Symptoms of kidney pain may include. 2  fever, 3  painful urination, 4  flank pain, 5  nausea and/or vomiting. 6  Kidney pain can be on the left, right, or both sides. 7  Causes of kidney pain are diagnosed with the patient's history and physical examination, and lab tests including blood, pregnancy, and urine tests.
Musculoskeletal problems are the most common cause of back pain, but occasionally, back pain can be a symptom of kidney problems. If you are experiencing pain that moves towards your side and groin area, or if you have a fever or urinary symptoms, then your kidneys could be the source.
Kidney pain facts. 1  The function and purpose of the kidneys are to remove excess fluid and waste products from the body. 2  The kidneys are located in the upper abdominal area against the back muscles on both the left and right side of the body.