Glass of beer with barley and hop grains. Photo Credit aaron007/iStock/Getty Images. Malt extract is a common addition and flavoring agent to processed foods. The extract is usually made from barley, a grain that contains gluten. Rye and wheat also contain gluten. For people who have gluten sensitivity or celiac disease, avoiding most or all gluten in food is very important to maintain health and avoid life-threatening complication
Gluten-free beer is beer made from ingredients that do not contain glycoproteins (gluten). People who have gluten intolerance (including celiac disease and dermatitis herpetiformis sufferers) have a reaction to certain proteins in the grains commonly used to make beer, barley and wheat. 
Barley Malt Extract and Van’s Products. If you eat gluten free you probably are aware that barley malt extract has been in the news of late. Van’s, one of my favorite manufacturer’s of gluten-free foods, recently unveiled a couple of new gluten-free products — French Toast Sticks and Pancakes. Van’s is removing barley malt extract from their gluten-free French toast and pancakes… hooray!!! Here is the statement Van’s provided me to use in this article: “Van’s recently launched two new Wheat Free products – Cinnamon French Toast Sticks and Homestyle Pancakes.
Obviously, when barley malt extract is an ingredient in a food product, such as breakfast cereals, waffles, and pancakes, the ppm gluten content of the final food product will be far less than the ppm gluten content of the extract. Van’s is removing barley malt extract from their gluten-free French toast and pancakes… hooray!!! Here is the statement Van’s provided me to use in this article: “Van’s recently launched two new Wheat Free products – Cinnamon French Toast Sticks and Homestyle Pancakes.
As individuals with celiac disease know, barley malt, barley malt extract, and barley malt flavoring are not allowed (under the proposed rule) in foods labeled gluten-free and sold in the United States. Suzanne Simpson, dietitian at the Celiac Center at Columbia University recently alerted me to a product manufactured by The Gracious Gourmet that is labeled gluten-free but contains barley malt extract as an ingredient.
Read labels to be sure. Most ingredients with “wheat” in the name including hydrolyzed wheat protein and pregelatinized wheat protein. Buckwheat, which is gluten free, is an exception. Barley and malt, which is usually made from barley, including malt syrup, malt extract, malt flavoring and malt vinegar. Rye, which is most often found in bread products. It is not typically used to make ingredients. Breaded or floured meat, poultry, seafood and vegetables, when the breading is made with wheat. YES. Foods made from grains (and grain-like plants) that do not contain harmful gluten, including: 1  Corn in all forms (corn flour, corn meal, grits, etc.). 2  Plain rice in all forms (white, brown, wild, basmati, enriched rice, etc.).
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes organic barley malt contains barley gluten. Organic does not mean gluten free. Organic means something was grown in accordance to organic regulations or a processed food such as cereal is made with ingredients that are certified organic. To simplify this, although the above answer is very,very good, Barley malt contains gluten. Wheat free is NOT gluten free. Wheat,barley, rye, spelt, triticale,kamut, etc. all contain gluten.
Because barley malt is made from barley grain that has been germinated it is reasonably certain to be less toxic than barley itself. The hordein proteins and starch in the endosperm of barley grains, like the equivalent gluten proteins and starch in wheat, are there for storage purposes. 
Gluten is the name for the protein in grains. All grains contain protein that is theoretically gluten but people with celiac disease and most other gluten allergies only react to the form of gluten found in wheat (including spelt, kamut, triticale and all varieties of wheat), barley, and rye. 
Barley is related to wheat and barley grains definitely contain gluten. Malted barley is barley grains which have been allowed to germinate, converting some of the starch into sugars. Barley malt therefore contains gluten unless it's been specifically processed to remove it. It may or may not contain wheat gluten, depending on what the technical legal definition of that term is; I'm not a food chemist, so I don't know.