The Navajo use the word Anasazi, which means ancient enemies. As Hopi they have lived in the Four Corners area for at least 1,000 years. Oraibi, AZ was settled in 1050 and is the oldest consistently occupied community in North America. Wherever they have lived, the Hopi have always been the Hopi. 1 To the Hopi the present world is the fourth; to the Navajo the present world is the fifth. 2  The Hopi must escape to above worlds because of flood-or contamination. 3  Sandpainting for sale always contains errors so as not to offend the higher powers. 4  The PLEIADES Constellation is painted on Black God's cheek.
The Hopi live near the Navajo, but are a totally unrelated people. The name Hopi comes from Hopituh Shi-nu-mu meaning The Peaceful People or Peaceful Little Ones&quot. They have lived in the southwest for thousands of years. 
Four Corners Religious Ceremonies. The Hopi people come from the Four Corners, a region of the United States consisting of the southwest corner of Colorado, northwest corner of New Mexico, northeast corner of Arizona and southeast corner of Utah. Regardless of many other ceremonies that are performed throughout the year (for example Wuwuchim-the first winter ceremony, followed by Soyal and Powamu), the Four Corners religious ceremonies represent the Hopi Road of Life.
If you want to gain insight into the ceremonies of the Hopi people, all these terms (and much more) are covered in this article. slide 1 of 10. The Hopi people are a group of indigenous Native American people who currently live primarily in the Hopi Reservation in northeastern Arizona. According to the 2000 US census, they have a population of approximately 7,000 members. The article will outline the most important Hopi ceremonies and corresponding terms. Regardless of many other ceremonies that are performed throughout the year (for example Wuwuchim-the first winter ceremony, followed by Soyal and Powamu), the Four Corners religious ceremonies represent the Hopi Road of Life.
Ceremony and rituals have long played a vital and essential role in Native American culture. Often referred to as religion, most Native Americans did not consider their spirituality, ceremonies, and rituals as religion, in the way that Christians do. 
The Hopi have always viewed their land as sacred. Agriculture is a very important part of their culture, and their villages are spread out across the northern part of Arizona. The Hopi and the Navajo did not have a conception of land being bounded and divided. They lived on the land that their ancestors did. The Hopi language is one of the 30 of the Uto-Aztecan language family. The majority of Hopi people are enrolled in the Hopi Tribe of Arizona but some are enrolled in the Colorado River Indian Tribes.
Hopi Snake Dance-The most widely publicized of Hopi rituals was the Snake Dance, held annually in late August, during which the performers dance with live snakes in their mouths. The dance is thought to have originated as a water ceremony because snakes were the traditional guardians of springs. 
The Hopi Way The Hopi Way is one of peace and is holistic; their name Hopituh Shi-nu-mu, can be interpreted as The Peaceful Little People.. All of daily life is part of their religion, and their belief is to help others improve their life. 1 To the Hopi the present world is the fourth; to the Navajo the present world is the fifth. 2  The Hopi must escape to above worlds because of flood-or contamination. 3  Sandpainting for sale always contains errors so as not to offend the higher powers. 4  The PLEIADES Constellation is painted on Black God's cheek.
The Hopi are a Native American tribe, who primarily live on the 2,531.773 sq mi (6,557.26 km 2) Hopi Reservation in northeastern Arizona. As of 2010, there were 18,327 Hopi in the United States, according to the 2010 census. The Hopi language is one of the 30 of the Uto-Aztecan language family. The majority of Hopi people are enrolled in the Hopi Tribe of Arizona but some are enrolled in the Colorado River Indian Tribes.
Native American religions are the spiritual practices of the indigenous peoples of the Americas. Traditional Native American ceremonial ways can vary widely, and are based on the differing histories and beliefs of individual tribes, clans and bands. 