Definition: The term bell curve is used to describe the mathematical concept called normal distribution, sometimes referred to as Gaussian distribution. ‘Bell curve’ refers to the shape that is created when a line is plotted using the data points for an item that meets the criteria of ‘normal distribution’. These are measured in terms of standard deviations. A bell curve graph depends on two factors, the mean and the standard deviation. The mean identifies the position of the center and the standard deviation determines the the height and width of the bell.
A good example of a bell curve or normal distribution is the roll of two dice. The distribution is centered around the number 7 and the probability decreases as you move away from the center. Here are the % chance of the various outcomes when you roll two dice. 2 - 2.78 % 8 - 13.89 %. 3 - 5.56 % 9 – 11.11 %. These are measured in terms of standard deviations. A bell curve graph depends on two factors, the mean and the standard deviation. The mean identifies the position of the center and the standard deviation determines the the height and width of the bell.
The curve referred to in the term is the  bell curve , which is used in statistics to show the distribution of any set of data. It's called a bell curve, because once the data is plotted on a graph, the line created usually forms the shape of a bell or hill. In a normal distribution, most of the data will be near the middle or the mean, with very few figures on the outside of the bell – the extreme outliers.
'The Bell Curve' has murderous implications in its call for cutbacks to welfare and aid to children and single parents, Fairchild said. Herrnstein, a Harvard University psychologist, died shortly before The Bell Curve was published last fall. Co-author Murray, a conservative commentator with the American Enterprise Institute, was unavailable for comment.
bell curve definition bell curves also called gaussian distributions and normal distributions are so called because the line resembles a bell the concept was pioneered by german mathematician johann carl friedrich gauss in 1809 the peak of the bell curve refers to the most common result the average child with the highest scorers at the far right of the bell curve and the lowest scorers at the far lef
Bell curve may refer to: 1  A Gaussian function, a specific kind of function whose graph is a bell-shaped curve. 2  Normal (Gaussian) distribution, whose density function is a Gaussian function. 
The book's title comes from the bell-shaped normal distribution of intelligence quotient (IQ) scores in a population. Heckman's reanalysis of the evidence used in The Bell Curve found contradictions: 1  The factors that explain wages receive different weights than the factors that explain test scores. 2  Other factors besides g contribute to social performance, and they can be manipulated.
DEFINITION of 'Bell Curve'. The most common type of distribution for a variable. The term bell curve comes from the fact that the graph used to depict a normal distribution consists of a bell-shaped line. The bell curve is also known as a normal distribution. The bell curve is less commonly referred to as a Gaussian distribution, after German mathematician and physicist Karl Gauss, who popularized the model in the scientific community by using it to analyze astronomical data. 
But we really don’t need to worry too much about the formula. The only two numbers that we care about in it are the mean and standard deviation. The bell curve for a given set of data has center located at the mean. This is where the highest point of the curve or “top of the bell“ is located. A data set‘s standard deviation determines how spread out our bell curve is. The larger the standard deviation, the more spread out the curve. 