Actors. These are the richest actors in the world! Here you will find a listing of the highest paid actors, past and current. Whether it's Will Ferrell, Tom Cruise or Will Smith, the hardest challenge for any actor is pretending to be a normal person when you make a salary of $20 million per film. Tom Cruise Net Worth: Tom Cruise is an American actor and producer who has a net worth of $470 million. Over the last three decades, Tom Cruise.
Jerry Seinfeld – Richest actor in the world. This actor is called as the Baadshah of Bollywood “ The King of Bollywood ”. He has a net worth that is about $600 million today. So he is not only a richest Bollywood actor and also a richest actor in the world (updated: now he is number 2). He is another rich actor in the world. Will Smith is a great Hollywood actor with a lot of skills. He has a net worth that is about $200 million. He became very popular because of his films, including The Independence Day, I Robot, Bad Boys, Men in Black.
It is not surprising to see this actor in this top richest actor in the world. His net worth is about $200 million. Salman Khan becomes the most influential people in Bollywood. There are a lot of people who love his films. Salman Khan (Bollywood Actor) – Net worth: $200 million. He is another rich actor in the world. Will Smith is a great Hollywood actor with a lot of skills. He has a net worth that is about $200 million. He became very popular because of his films, including The Independence Day, I Robot, Bad Boys, Men in Black.
By FOX News Magazine. According to data from Singapore-based website Wealth-X, Jerry Seinfeld is the world's richest actor with a fortune of around $820 million dollars. Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan comes in second with $600 million, and Tom Cruise, at $480 million, rounds out the top thre
Jerome Allen “Jerry” Seinfeld was born April 29, 1954. He is an American comedian, actor and writer. After updated news from Magazine Foxnews to our list, now Jerry Seinfeld is the richest actor in the world who has fortune around $820 million rank over Shahrukh Khan from Bollywood. He is another rich actor in the world. Will Smith is a great Hollywood actor with a lot of skills. He has a net worth that is about $200 million. He became very popular because of his films, including The Independence Day, I Robot, Bad Boys, Men in Black.
Here is a list of the top ten richest actors in the world. They are famous in varying degrees — but all have become very wealthy during their careers. Some have been paid huge amounts for individual movies, while many have gone into directing and producing to supplement their incomes. Net Worth: $300millionNative Country: Austria/USA. Arnie is one of the richest actors on the planet. Pic credit: Gage Skidmore CC BY-SA 2.0. Arnold Schwarzenegger’s resume is pretty impressive — from world champion body builder, to Hollywood action star, to Governor of California.
#10 Adam Sandler. Get ready to find out the top 10 richest actors in the world! We have compiled a comprehensive list of the 10 richest actors as of the beginning of 2015! Above: Adam Sandler – Estimated net worth: $350 million dollars. Adam Richard Sandler (Real name) was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1966. 
Top 50 Actors. These are the richest actors in the world! Here you will find a listing of the highest paid actors, past and current. Whether it's Will Ferrell, Tom Cruise or Will Smith, the hardest challenge for any actor is pretending to be a normal person when you make a salary of $20 million per film. 1 Rank#11 Johnny Depp Net Worth$400 MillionJohnny Depp net worth and salary: Johnny Depp is an American actor and producer who has a net worth of $400 million.