For a married couple filing jointly, the maximum income to make a full Roth IRA contribution is less than $167,000. If the couple makes at least $167,000 and less than $177,000 the contribution limit is phased out as their income approaches the upper bound. Minimum Income Considerations. While there is no minimum income limit for the Roth IRA, it is post-tax earned income that you deposit to your Roth account. If you have no earned income then you have no qualified money to deposit to your Roth IRA.
You must have earned income. To qualify for a Roth, you must have earned income in the year you want to make a contribution. Earned income is money paid for work you performed (or in the case of a small business, profit distributions from the business). This income includes wages, salaries, tips, bonuses, commissions, and self-employment income. If your earned income for the year is less than the contribution limit (in 2014, $5,500 for those under 50), you can only contribute up to your
Excess Contributions. You can't always tell what your earned income for the year is going to be. If you contribute to your IRA early on in the year, then end up with no earned income, the IRS will hit you with a 6 percent tax on all the excess contributions. Every year it stays in the account, you pay the 6 percent again. At above $112,000, none of your IRA contributions are tax-free. If your earned income is less than $5,000, you face another restriction: you can't contribute more money -- regardless of taxes -- than you earn. So if you have no earned income this year, you can't add to your IRA at all.
To contribute to a Roth IRA, one must have earned income. However, in some circumstances, even a retiree can fund a Roth. Q. Dan Moisand, I have questions on your article about funding a Roth for college. 
If you or your spouse do have earned income, you can contribute to a Roth at any age (unlike a traditional IRA, which prohibits contributions starting in the year you turn age 70½). To qualify for a Roth IRA in 2007, the adjusted gross income on your joint return must be less than $166,000 ($114,000 for singles). And the amount you can contribute starts to phase out at $156,000 ($99,000 for singles). You can benefit from contributing to a Roth even if you're well into your senior years. If you or your spouse had any earned income last year, you still have until April 17 to open a Roth IRA for 2006. And you can contribute to a 2007 IRA anytime now, too.
You must contribute earned income to both a traditional IRA and Roth IRA. Earned income is money you generate from wages, self-employment, a partnership or even alimony. But an inheritance, or income from an inheritance, is not earned income and therefore cannot be contributed to an IRA. But you do have some options. And you can contribute to a Roth IRA even after you turn 70 ½ . Again, though, you must have earned income, so it might be income working part time. Remember, though, that the amount you can contribute is limited by the amount of your earned income.
For each year you contribute to a regular IRA or a Roth IRA, you (or your spouse, if you file jointly) must have qualifying income. If you don’t have qualifying income, you can’t contribute. Learn what counts as compensation income that allows you to make IRA contributions. You can’t make a regular (non-rollover) contribution to a traditional IRA or a Roth IRA unless you or your spouse have qualifying income. This page explains what types of income count as qualifying income for this purpos
You must have earned income to be able to contribute to a Roth IRA, but you can contribute at any age (the cutoff is 70 1/2 for traditional IRAs). If you are 50 or older, you can contribute up to $6,500 for 2013 and 2014. 