Bacterial Conjunctivitis. Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with certain bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis. 1  Usually begins in one eye and may sometimes progress to the second eye. 2  Is a leading cause of children being absent from day care or school (Patel, 2007). Viral conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with a virus. Viral conjunctivitis. 1  Can be caused by a number of different viruses, many of which may be associated with an upper respiratory tract infection, cold, or sore throat.
Eye infections can affect any part of the eyes, from the eyelids to the cornea, and even the retina in the back of the eye. Eye infections are so common that most of us either have had an eye infection or know someone who has had one. Eye infections can be bacterial, viral, or fungal. All parts of the eye are susceptible to infection. Eye infections can affect one or both eyes, and can occur in people of all ages. Symptoms can include irritation, redness, discharge, and reduced vision. Treatment typically depends on the cause.
Causes and Types of Eye Infections. Examples of viral, fungal and bacterial eye infections include: 1  Pink eye, or conjunctivitis. 2  Conjunctivitis, also called pink eye, is a common, highly contagious eye infection that often is spread among children in day care centers, classrooms and similar environments. 
Eye infections often cause redness, irritation, tearing and itchiness. Discharge from the eye and crusting of the eyelid margin are also common symptoms that may cause your eyelids and lashes to feel stuck together when you awaken. You may also experience eye pain and swelling of the tissues around the eye. An exception is eye infection caused by herpes simplex virus, which can be a serious eye infection. Bacterial eye infections often require antibiotic treatment. Because a serious eye infection can affect vision, it is important to see a physician if your symptoms are severe or last longer than about two days.
Signs of an Eye Infection. Signs of an eye infection may include: 1  Pain in the eye. 2  A feeling that something is in the eye (foreign body sensation). 3  Increased sensitivity to light (photophobia). 4  Yellow, green, bloody, or watery discharge from the eye. 5  Increasing redness of the eye or eyelids. 
Fungal Eye Infections. Fungal eye infections are extremely rare, but they can be very serious. The most common way for someone to develop a fungal eye infection is as a result of an eye injury, particularly if the injury was caused by plant material such as a stick or a thorn. Inflammation or infection of the cornea (the clear, front layer of the eye) is known as keratitis, and inflammation or infection in the interior of the eye is called endophthalmitis. Many different types of fungi can cause eye infections. For other fungal topics, visit the fungal diseases homepage
Bacterial conjunctivitis is one of the most common types of eye infection. A person with a stye. Exposure to harsh chemicals can cause eye infections. Using someone else's mascara can cause an eye infection. Trauma to the eye can cause an infection. Two of the most common causes of eye infections are viral or bacterial conjunctivitis. Both forms are extremely contagious and cause the eye to tear excessively, look very bloodshot, and in the mornings the eyes may be almost shut together from discharge.
Eye infections can be caused by any number of things, including dirty contact lenses, touching your eyes with unclean hands or even certain medical conditions. In some cases, people may mistake an eye infection for allergies or a cold since the symptoms can be similar. 