Dubrovnik to Bari Ferry. The Jadrolinija Dubrovnik Bari ferry crossing between Croatia and Italy is the only service operating on this route. With crossing durations from 7 hours 30 minutes, the route is scheduled to run around 6 times per week.
Italy to Croatia by train The main cities reachable by train from Italy to Croatia are Zagreb, Pula, Rijeka, and Split (but you have to go through Zagreb to get to Split as there is no direct rout from Italy to Split). So, traveling from Italy to Croatia is not as difficult as it may appear at first. Some of our clients also ordered private transfers from Venice to Split and from Venice to Zagreb which are the most comfortable options of traveling but come at highest cost.
Italy to Croatia by ferry Taking a ferry to Croatia from Italy is your best option if you are traveling from the eastern coast of Italy. The departure points from Italy are Venice, Ancona, Pescara, and Bari, and each port offers at least a couple of choices as far as destinations in Croatia and ferry lines go. So, traveling from Italy to Croatia is not as difficult as it may appear at first. Some of our clients also ordered private transfers from Venice to Split and from Venice to Zagreb which are the most comfortable options of traveling but come at highest cost.
The ferry port of Dubrovnik in Croatia is your gateway to Italy with the Dubrovnik to Bari ferry crossing running about 6 times per week. 
by car. Travel to Croatia by car. The closest international airports to Hvar are the ones in Split and Dubrovnik (Dubrovnik is 100km from Drvenik and ferry Drvenik-Sucuraj). From Dubrovnik, frequent bus lines are available to Drvenik or Split, or you can choose taxi or car rental. Split Airport is situated 30 km from Split ferry station.
Italy to Croatia by bus Traveling by bus within Italy is the best way to get around next to renting a car or buying a train ticket. However, the only cities with direct bus connections to Croatia are Venice and Trieste. From Venice you can only reach Pula and Pazin destinations in Istria via Eurolines bus company. So, traveling from Italy to Croatia is not as difficult as it may appear at first. Some of our clients also ordered private transfers from Venice to Split and from Venice to Zagreb which are the most comfortable options of traveling but come at highest cost.
For reference, here’s some information about train travel from Italy to Croatia: 1  Venice to Zagreb can take from 7.5-10 hours and can require 1-2 train changes along the way. 2  Venice to Split can take from 15-20 hours and require as many as 3 train changes. 1 A deck-only one-way ticket from Ancona to Split or Bari to Dubrovnik on Jadrolinija Ferries ranges from €40 in the low season to €48 in the high season and €55 on a summer weekend.
Booking the Bari-Dubrovnik Ferry. The Bari to Dubrovnik ferry is a car ferry and the service is handled by Jadrolinija, Croatia's national ferry company. As with any international car ferry, I strongly recommend that you book it in advance. In order to book the car ferry, follow these easy steps: 
From Italy, take small coastal roads to the A5 motorway in Croatia. You will pass through Slovenia and Bosnia on your way to Dubrovnik. The trip can take up to eight hours from Trieste, Italy. From Greece, a series of small roads connects to Dubrovnik, passing through Albania and Montenegro. Take the bus. Buses run from Trieste, Italy, to Dubrovnik once a day. The trip takes about 15 hours and includes stops in other towns along the coast. Daily buses also connect Sarajevo in Bosnia to Dubrovnik in about five hours. Additionally, buses run from Montenegro, which take about two hours