The first thing you should know if you are considering Cosette for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Cosette is a girl name. The name Cosette is of French origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Cosette and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Cosette and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds.
Cosette /co-set-te/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced koh-ZETT. It is of French origin, and the meaning of Cosette is little thing. From cose meaning thing. 
French Meaning: The name Cosette is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Cosette is: Victorious. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.
Cosette is best known as the heroine of Les Miserables. In the Victor Hugo novel, Cosette was the nickname given to the girl named Euphrasie by her mother. Despite the popularity of Les Mis the musical, the name was given to only seventy-five girls in 2011, but this may change due to the wide exposure of the movie.
The highest recorded use of the name Cosette was in 2013 with a total of 113 babies. According to the 2005 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Cosette is not a popular baby girl's name in Florida. Imagine that, only 5 babies in Florida have the same name as you in 2005. Across the entire United States a total of only 60 babies also bear the same first name during the same year. 
Meanings and history of the name Cosette: | Edit. Considered a French feminine form of the name Nicolas, which means victory of the people.. Rather appropriate considering the themes of Victor Hugo's novel that features a character with this name. In that novel, Cosette's given name was Euphrasie and Cosette was merely her nickname. According to other sources, Cosette means, little thing of no importanc
Cosette, meaning Victory in War or Triumph in War is also the name of the lead woman in Les Miserables, a French play about the French Revolution. -- mariah 7/27/2005. My name is Cosette and I've heard it meant Victory over the People or Victory of War or Little Pet. Though the name read Euphrasie, Fantine called her daughter Cosette, as a sort of derivative that had no etymological root in the given name. -- jc 8/3/2006. Another possible source may have come from Fantine's beau and Cosette's father, Felix Tholomyes.
For other uses, see Cosette (disambiguation) . Cosette is a fictional character in the novel Les Miserables misérables By Victor hugo and in the many adaptations of the story for, stage, film and. Television her given, Name, euphrasie is only mentioned. briefly 
In the book Les Miserables, Cosette's mother Fantine is illiterate. Though the name read Euphrasie, Fantine called her daughter Cosette, as a sort of derivative that had no etymological root in the given name. -- jc 8/3/2006. Another possible source may have come from Fantine's beau and Cosette's father, Felix Tholomyes.
From French chosette meaning little thing. This is the nickname of the illegitimate daughter of Fantine in Victor Hugo's novel 'Les Miserables' (misérables). 1862 her real name Is, euphrasie though it is seldom. Used in the novel Young cosette is the ward of the Cruel thenardiers thénardiers until she is Retrieved By. jean valjean 