norethindrone acetate. NORETHINDRONE ACETATE is a female hormone. This medicine is used to treat endometriosis, uterine bleeding caused by abnormal hormone levels, and secondary amenorrhea. Secondary amenorrhea is when a woman stops getting menstrual periods due to low levels of certain female hormones.
Norethindrone is a form of progesterone, a female hormone. Norethindrone prevents ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary). This medication also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
In addition, this medication is used to treat a condition (endometriosis) in which tissue that normally lines the inside of the uterus is found outside the uterus in the abdomen /pelvic area, causing painful/ irregular periods. Norethindrone is a type of female hormone (progestin).
Norethindrone acetate is a first-generation progestin of low progestational activity and slight estrogenic effects. The level of progestational effects refers to how successful the progestin is at preventing ovulation and lessening menstrual bleeding – the higher the better.
Dosing of Activella is either 1.0 mg/0.5 mg (estradiol, norethindrone acetate) or 0.5 mg/0.1 mg (estradiol, norethindrone acetate). The lowest effective dose and the shortest treatment duration should be used. Activella may interact with anticoagulants (blood thinners).
Norethindrone is used to treat endometriosis, a condition in which the type of tissue that lines the uterus (womb) grows in other areas of the body and causes pain, heavy or irregular menstruation (periods), and other symptoms.
Norethindrone is used for birth control (contraception) to prevent pregnancy. Norethindrone is also used to treat menstrual disorders, endometriosis, or abnormal vaginal bleeding caused by a hormone imbalance. Norethindrone may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
NORETHINDRONE ACETATE is a female hormone. This medicine is used to treat endometriosis, uterine bleeding caused by abnormal hormone levels, and secondary amenorrhea. Secondary amenorrhea is when a woman stops getting menstrual periods due to low levels of certain female hormones.
NORETHINDRONE ACETATE (nor eth IN drone AS e tate) is a female hormone. This medicine is used to treat endometriosis, uterine bleeding caused by abnormal hormone levels, and secondary amenorrhea.
• NORETHINDRONE ACETATE (noun). The noun NORETHINDRONE ACETATE has 1 sense: 1. a synthetic progestational hormone (trade name Norlutin) used in oral contraceptives and to treat endometriosis. Familiarity information: NORETHINDRONE ACETATE used as a noun is very rare.