International marketing geographics must take into account not only differences in weather and cultural norms, but differences in language, product delivery networks, local laws and governmental structure, marketing channels and the overall recognition of the brand. They can either segment it by demographic differences such as age or income, or they can segment it by location using geographics. Geographics require far less research and personal data and can be performed with little more than a map of the area in question, however large or small it may be.
Four historical traditions in geographical research are spatial analysis of the natural and the human phenomena (geography as the study of distribution), area studies (places and regions), study of the human-land relationship, and research in the Earth sciences. Geography has been called the world discipline and the bridge between the human and the physical science . Geography is divided into two main branches: human geography and physical geography.
Problems. The main problem with geographic strategies is that that they tend to be more general than those that use specific and verifiable personal data to determine consumer interest. For example, a customer who has used your services in the past makes for a better marketing target than one who has not. They can either segment it by demographic differences such as age or income, or they can segment it by location using geographics. Geographics require far less research and personal data and can be performed with little more than a map of the area in question, however large or small it may be.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. When deciding your target market, you must consider demographics, psychographics, and geographics. Geographics include where your target market lives such as urban vs suburbs, mountains vs beach, different states maybe or countries, and also the climate. Marketin … g is the process of  creating exchange between a business and it's potential customers  (consumers/businesses). This exchange is usually in the form of  either currency or some form of trade. Marketing is basically the  advertising and selling of products while meeting consumer and  business needs.
My professor said that Marketing is salesmanship in print..  Marketing is the art or science to gather, maintain and improve  profitable clients for one's company. Marketin … g is the process of  creating exchange between a business and it's potential customers  (consumers/businesses). This exchange is usually in the form of  either currency or some form of trade. Marketing is basically the  advertising and selling of products while meeting consumer and  business needs.
Geography (from Greek γεωγραφία, geographia, lit. earth description) is a field study of the lands, the features, the inhabitants, and the phenomena of Earth. A literal translation would be to describe or picture or write about the earth. The first person to use the word geography was Eratosthenes (276–194 BC). Geography has been called the world discipline and the bridge between the human and the physical science . Geography is divided into two main branches: human geography and physical geography.
Noun. 1. geographics-study of the earth's surface; includes people's responses to topography and climate and soil and vegetation. geography. earth science-any of the sciences that deal with the earth or its parts. 
Breaking the marketplace into segments helps make the plan of attack more concise. Comstock Images/Comstock/Getty Images. Marketing geographics involve the compartmentalization of the consumer market into smaller, more manageable segments using geographic location as the main determining factor. They can either segment it by demographic differences such as age or income, or they can segment it by location using geographics. Geographics require far less research and personal data and can be performed with little more than a map of the area in question, however large or small it may be.
Full Definition of GEOGRAPHY. 1. : a science that deals with the description, distribution, and interaction of the diverse physical, biological, and cultural features of the earth's surface. 2. : the geographic features of an area. 3. : a treatise on geography. 4. a: a delineation or systematic arrangement of constituent elements: configuration. 