The death of Subhas Chandra Bose occurred from third-degree burns on 18 August 1945 after his overloaded Japanese plane crashed in Japanese-occupied Formosa (now Taiwan). On 23 August 1945, the Japanese news agency Do Trzei announced the death of Bose and Shidea. On 7 September a Japanese officer, Lieutenant Tatsuo Hayashida, carried Bose's ashes to Tokyo, and the following morning they were handed to the president of the Tokyo Indian Independence League, Rama Murti.
Bose's The honorific Netaji, first applied to Bose in Germany, by the Indian soldiers of the Indische Legion and by the German and Indian officials in the Special Bureau for India in Berlin, in early 1942, was by 1990 used widely throughout India. Subhas Chandra Bose was born on 23 January 1897 (at 12.10 pm) in Cuttack, Orissa Division, Bengal Province, to Prabhavati Devi and Janakinath Bose, an advocate. He was the ninth in a family of 14 children. He was admitted to the Protestant European School, like his brothers and sisters, in January 1902
Subhas Chandra Bose (23 January 1897 – 18 August 1945) was a freedom fighter in the Indian independence movement who believed in violent resistance to British colonial rule, and founded the Indian National Army, an armed Indian nationalist force. 
During the last week of April 1945, Subhas Chandra Bose along with his senior Indian National Army (INA) officers, several hundred enlisted INA men, and one hundred women from the INA's Rani of Jhansi Regiment left Rangoon by road for Moulmein in Burma. On 23 August 1945, the Japanese news agency Do Trzei announced the death of Bose and Shidea. On 7 September a Japanese officer, Lieutenant Tatsuo Hayashida, carried Bose's ashes to Tokyo, and the following morning they were handed to the president of the Tokyo Indian Independence League, Rama Murti.
Subhs Chandra Bose, one of most influential leader who contributed to the independence of India. Bose, who played vital role in the fight against British, died in a mysterious plane crash. According to the official reports, Netaji died in an air accident on 18 August 1945 when he was flying to Russia. 
Map of Central Burma showing the route taken by Subhas Chandra Bose and his Indian National Army (INA) group of 500 from Rangoon to Moulmein. The group traveled in a Japanese military convoy until they reached the river Sittang. On 23 August 1945, the Japanese news agency Do Trzei announced the death of Bose and Shidea. On 7 September a Japanese officer, Lieutenant Tatsuo Hayashida, carried Bose's ashes to Tokyo, and the following morning they were handed to the president of the Tokyo Indian Independence League, Rama Murti.
Beginning today, Swarajya will be carrying a series of articles on the mystery surrounding Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s death and how successive Indian governments have blocked all attempts to unravel it. For more than a decade, Anuj Dhar has devoted himself to resolving the mystery surrounding the disappearance of Subhash Chandra Bose. His 2012 bestselling book India's Biggest Cover-up (Netaji Rahasya Gatha in Hindi) triggered the demand for declassification of the Bose files.
With Japanese support, Bose revamped the Indian National Army (INA), then composed of Indian soldiers of the British Indian army who had been captured in the Battle of Singapore. To these, after Bose's arrival, were added enlisting Indian civilians in Malaya and Singapore. Subhas Chandra Bose was born on 23 January 1897 (at 12.10 pm) in Cuttack, Orissa Division, Bengal Province, to Prabhavati Devi and Janakinath Bose, an advocate. He was the ninth in a family of 14 children. He was admitted to the Protestant European School, like his brothers and sisters, in January 1902
1 Netaji's nephew Ardhendu Bose, a former model and businessman, has said that his father believed the phones at their home in Mumbai were tapped. 2  He said this was taken as proof that the iconic leader didn't actually die in a plane crash in 1945. 1 Subhas Bose did not belong just to his direct family. 2  He had himself said that the whole country is his family. 3  I do not think it's just the duty of the family to raise this issue (of declassification of Netaji files), Surya Kumar Bose, the president of the Indo-German Association in Hamburg, said.