Protein amounts that should be fed to a parrot vary upon the fat content of the diet. Everyone knows that the amount of food a bird eats depends on the number of calories in the diet. A diet high in calories will make the bird eat less food. This is the reason why the protein levels in the diet must be higher, so that the parrot can take in the right amount. On the other hand, a diet low in calories will determine the bird to eat more and the parrot will need less protein in each mouthful.
The other 20 percent to 40 percent of your bird's diet should be table food. 1  Vegetables such as leafy greens, zucchini, tomato, squash, carrots, broccoli, beets, peas, green beans and peppers (any color, even jalapenos), should make up the largest portion of table food. These birds need foods from the bread/cereal, vegetable and protein (meat) groups-just as humans do. Dairy products aren't necessary, although some owners do feed them to their birds in small amounts.
Amazon parrots eat a variety of seeds, nuts, fruits, berries and vegetation in the wild. They will clamber from branch to branch while feeding instead of flying. They especially treasure the fruits of the oil palm. General Information. Our knowledge of bird nutrition is constantly evolving. This is due both to heightened awareness of the importance of nutrition and to increased research into birds different needs. As with all other animals, birds need a proper balance of carbohydrates, proteins, fat, vitamins, minerals and water. Different species of birds often require different foods
Different bird foods and bird mixes for Amazons are available. 1  Bird Food: 2  Foods available for Amazon parrots include formulated diets, either pelleted or extruded, seed only diets, and parrot mixes which offer a mixture of both. 1 An Amazon parrots cage best suited to adequately house a single Amazon bird would be between 39- 59 (100-150 cm) high and have a floor space of 23x 39 (60 x 100 cm). 2  This size will provide room for lots of movement as well as space for perches, food dishes and a variety of playthings.
General Information. The colorful Amazon parrot (Amazona sp.) is the most common of all the pet parrots kept in captivity. They originate from Mexico, Central America, South America and the adjacent islands of the West Indies. There are numerous types of Amazon parrots. Amazon Parrots eat a variety of seeds, nuts, fruits, berries and vegetation in the wild. They will clamber from branch to branch while feeding instead of flying. They especially treasure the fruits of the oil palm.
If you have your parrot on a pelleted parrot food, his total diet should include at least 50% in other foods that can be varied every day. The other foods offered can include, nuts for the larger parrots, vegetables, nutritional greens, fruits and berries, and cooked foods. 
Feeding pet birds the right foods is important for their health. A balanced diet based on sound bird nutrition recommendations is the key. Balancing a parrot's diet from the beginning may prevent many health and behavior problems. But it's never too late to get your pet bird on a firm nutritional footing.
Find out how proteins, fat, carbohydrates, vitamins and minerals work in your bird's body.Laurie Hess, DVMPosted: November 26, 2014, 11:45 a.m. PDTThe most commonly kept pet bird species are psittacines (parrots) and passerines (perching birds like canaries andfinches). 
The best diet for parrots consists mostly of pellets, supplemented with table food.. These birds need foods from the bread/cereal, vegetable and protein (meat) groups-just as humans do. Dairy products aren't necessary, although some owners do feed them to their birds in small amounts. Fruit is mostly sugar and supplies few essential nutrients to birds