4. 1. It takes acetaminophen which is Tylenol, 4 hours to leave your body so long as it is not a 12 hour time release pill. In that case, it would take 12 hours. Do not take another pill until the proper time is up
I takes approximately 4 hours for tylenol to leave your body.... 0. 0. I takes approximately 4 hours for Tylenol to leave your body. However, if you have the time release 12 hour medication, it won`t leave your body for 12 hours. This type of pill you only take 1 every 12 hours. 1. It takes acetaminophen which is Tylenol, 4 hours to leave your body so long as it is not a 12 hour time release pill. In that case, it would take 12 hours.
How long does it take the sugars from such foods to leave the body so I can get more energy back and learn a different way of eating for energy?? The Glycemic Index (GI) ranks foods based on how quickly they raise your blood sugar levels after being digested. High-GI foods peak your blood sugar levels quickly (leading to an insulin spike and a subsequent crash where you feel tired, lethargic, and fatigued).
It takes about an hour for sugar to leave your body, and causes you to have a sugar crash. report this answer. Updated on Wednesday, February 01 2012 at 12:26PM EST. Source: www.blisstree.com/... 
A couple hours or minutes depending how much the person has took. But around 30 minutes to 3-4 hours. Thats how long you are stoned for......marijuana can take up to 28 days … to fully exit your system(not show up on a standard drug test) but you can clense your system in a matter of 4 days to a week or two. it just depends on the individual persons ,wieght ,metabolism, and how much was smoked. but 28 days to be sure! For example, it's estimated that THC can have a half life that ranges anywhere from 1-10 days. It's almost impossible to find out what that half life is, which means that it is very difficult to use it to calculate how long it will take for all of the THC to leave your body.
If you have smoked up to 4 to 5 days straight spending over 4 thousa … nd dollars then you should be aware that crack will be in your hair, skin, blood and urine for more than 4 days. If you are one that perhaps hit all day just for that day then the drug should leave your body in 3 to 4 days. For example, it's estimated that THC can have a half life that ranges anywhere from 1-10 days. It's almost impossible to find out what that half life is, which means that it is very difficult to use it to calculate how long it will take for all of the THC to leave your body.
4 hours to leave your body so long as it.... 4. 1. It takes acetaminophen which is Tylenol, 4 hours to leave your body so long as it is not a 12 hour time release pill. In that case, it would take 12 hours. Do not take another pill until the proper time is up. You can get liver damage from taking too much Tylenol and also if you take it for too long. 
Report Abuse. Sugar is processed within 3-4 hours. Either you burn it, or it's turned to fat. Addiction or habits only go away when replaced by something else. If you are prone to addiction, then the addiction never really goes away. All things considered, refined sugar and sugared drinks including fruit juice are really tough on your body. If you eat whole fruits, you get the sugar, but it takes much longer to absorb it all, so you don't get the crash afterwards. Same for veggies. The fiber helps slow down the absorption.