The peritoneal cavity is the fluid-filled gap between the wall of the abdomen and the organs contained within the abdomen. The cavity consists of the visceral and the parietal peritoneum. Both are a smooth membranes which excrete fluid. Excess fluid in the peritoneal cavity may cause a swollen abdomen. Problems associated with fluid buildup in the peritoneal cavity may include bruising and swelling of the legs. The peritoneum serves as a tract for lymphatic vessels.
Introduction. The peritoneum is the serous membrane that lines the abdominal cavity. It lies directly beneath the abdominal musculature (rectus abdominis and transverse abdominis). It is a type of loose connective tissue and is covered by mesothelium. There are two layers of peritoneum lining the abdomen. Lining the abdominal wall is the parietal layer, lining the abdominal viscera is the visceral layer. The small space within these two layers is called the peritoneal cavity. NB: In reality there are no viscera located in
Ordinarily, the peritoneal cavity is only of capillary thinness; however, it is referred to as a potential space because excess fluid can accumulate in the peritoneal cavity resulting in the clinical condition of ascites (see clinical applications). The peritoneal cavity is not completely closed in females. The abdominal ostia of the uterine tubes opens into the peritoneal cavity providing a potential pathway between the female genital tract and the peritoneum.
The peritoneum /ˌpɛrɨtəˈniːəm/ is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or coelom in amniotes and some invertebrates, such as annelids. It covers most of the intra-abdominal (or coelomic) organs, and is composed of a layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue. 1 The potential space between these two layers is the peritoneal cavity; it is filled with a small amount (about 50 mL) of slippery serous fluid that allows the two layers to slide freely over each other. 2  The term mesentery is often used to refer to a double layer of visceral peritoneum.
1 The term mesentery is often used to refer to a double layer of visceral peritoneum. 2  There are often blood vessels, nerves, and other structures between these layers. 3  The space between these two layers is technically outside of the peritoneal sac, and thus not in the peritoneal cavity. 1 The potential space between these two layers is the peritoneal cavity; it is filled with a small amount (about 50 mL) of slippery serous fluid that allows the two layers to slide freely over each other. 2  The term mesentery is often used to refer to a double layer of visceral peritoneum.
Fig 1.0 – The structure of the peritoneum and the peritoneal cavity. Note how the visceral layer invaginates to cover the organs. The peritoneal cavity is a potential space between the parietal and visceral peritoneum. It contains only a thin film of peritoneal fluid, which consists of water, electrolytes, leukocytes and antibodies. The fluid serves two main functions: 1  It acts as a lubricant, enabling free movement of the abdominal viscera. The peritoneal cavity is not completely closed in females. The abdominal ostia of the uterine tubes opens into the peritoneal cavity providing a potential pathway between the female genital tract and the
peritoneal cavity. Etymology: Gk, peri + teinein, to stretch. the potential space between the parietal and visceral layers of the peritoneum, which are normally in contact. The peritoneal cavity is divided into the greater and lesser sac. The greater sac is the peritoneal cavity, and the lesser sac is the omental bursa.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The peritoneal cavity is a potential space between the parietal peritoneum and visceral peritoneum, that is, the two membranes that separate the organs in the abdominal cavity from the abdominal wall. The peritoneal cavity is the largest serosal sac in the body and secretes approximately 50 ml of fluid per day. This fluid acts as a lubricant and has anti-inflammatory properties.