Thatched Roof House Insurance. If you own a Thatched Property you would have encountered a problem finding Insurance at a reasonable cost. Most Insurers are reluctant to offer Thatched Roof Home Insurance cover for properties that can be Listed and normally well looked after.
Make sure that you have adequate insurance and that your insurer is fully aware of the type of roof your property has. Thatch has to be repaired by experienced craftsmen and it is not uncommon to wait for up to 2 years for large pieces of work to be undertaken. Get a quick quote. It is estimated that there are approximately 24,000 listed, thatched properties in the UK. Only 5% of these are new builds, although with the resurgence in ecologically sound homes, this number is set to rise.
The cost to an insurance company of rebuilding a fire-destroyed thatched property is estimated at £400,000, as against £11,000 for a normal cottage. This is why it's essential to find a specialist insurance firm to cover your chocolate-box home. 
Do you have a property that has a thatched roof? We know how important it is to owners of thatched properties to have the right insurance so we find you the best deals on the best policies for you. This is a selection of home insurance companies that cover thatched properties. You can visit each insurer's website to view policy details and get quotes.
NFU Mutual adds a 55% loading on to thatched homes. But Norwich Union Home Plan is a lot more expensive. It would charge £1,210 a year for building insurance for a threebedroom thatched cottage in the picturesque village of Lavenham in Suffolk, with a rebuilding cost of £250,000. A similar house with a tiled roof would cost £403 - two-thirds les
Replacing a typical thatch roof costs on average £10 per square foot or about £100 per square metre. Mr New said: Check the roof every two or three years. The life of a thatched roof ranges from 25 years to 70 years; this varies depending on where the house is situated and on what kind of material the roof is made of. On average straw thatch roofs have a life span of 25 years, and reed roofs between 40 and 60 years, according to the TAS, but the ridge will need refurbishment every 10 or 15 years.
View. comments. THEY may not look out of place on a picture postcard, but a thatched cottage can cost you dear if you do not have proper insurance. Getting the right insurance for your thatch can be an expensive business-costing up to three times as much as cover for a comparable home with a less combustible roof. But Norwich Union Home Plan is a lot more expensive. It would charge £1,210 a year for building insurance for a threebedroom thatched cottage in the picturesque village of Lavenham in Suffolk, with a rebuilding cost of £250,000.
Thatch Insurance. Firstly, it is very important that you have buildings insurance on your thatched property. It must be appropriate and have the correct rebuild cost included. Be aware of what is and what is not covered and if in doubt ask the question before taking out the insurance.
The thatching cost usually is based on the area of roof to be thatched. Thatchers work on “square”. feet by. (. square feet). The average roof is around. square although some properties are 4 square and some. square. The cost also depends on factors such as:-. 1  Shape of the roof. 2  Design of the roof. 3  Ridge type and style.