The flu is contagious a day before and five days to a week after its onset. Young children, people over 65, those with compromised immune systems, and people with a terminal illness are at risk of death from the flu. Pregnant women are also at greater risk. The flu can also cause premature birth. Colds are contagious from about a week before you get them until all of your symptoms are gone, which is sometimes as long as two weeks. You might develop a secondary infection like an earache that lasts longer than contagious symptoms.
You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. 1 Symptoms usually appear within one to two days of exposure. 2  Although you typically feel better after a day or two, you're contagious for up to three days after you've recovered. 3  Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 4  Rotavirus.
As a rule, colds are contagious a day before you know you are sick, and for about two days after. At one week, if you are feeling progressively better, and unless you have a secondary infection, your cold should not be contagious. This answer should not be considered medical advice... 
The Flu Is Contagious. Most healthy adults may be able to infect other people beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. That means that you may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick. Some people can be infected with the flu virus but have no symptoms
Depending on the specific germ, the incubation period is between 12 hours and 5 days, usually 48 hours. To answer your question, the common cold is contagious between 24 hours before onset of symptoms until 5 days after onset. Like everything else this varies depending on the organism, but that's a pretty safe estimate. 
18 Followers. A. You may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick. Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. 
Most experts agree that adults with a cold or the flu start being contagious about a day before they start experiencing symptoms. For the flu, the contagious period then lasts five to seven days into the illness. For children, the contagious period for the flu can last up to two weeks after they start feeling sick, even if they start feeling better before that. The contagious period for a cold lasts about three to four days into the illness. As a general rule, people with a cold are most contagious about three days after their initial exposure to the virus. For more information on colds, influenza and related topics, check out the links on the next page. Print. 
However, the viruses that cause colds (for example, rhinoviruses) are not the same as those that cause the flu (influenza viruses). Although the typical incubation period for influenza is about one to four days, some adults can be contagious from about one day before onset of symptoms for up to two weeks. Other people who develop complications, such as pneumonia, may extend the contagious period for a week or two. For colds, most individuals become contagious about a day before cold symptoms develop and remain contagious for about five to seven days