Add a border to a page. On the Page Layout tab, in the Page Background group, click Page Borders. Make sure you are on the Page Border tab in the Borders and Shading dialog box. Click one of the border options under Settings. To specify that the border appears on a particular side of a page, such as only at the top, click Custom under Setting. Under Preview, click where you want the border to appear. Select the style, color, and width of the border. To specify an artistic border, such as trees, select an option in the Art box. Do any of the following: To specify a particular page or section for the border to appear in, click the option that you want under Apply to. Note To add a border to a drawing object, you must place the drawing object in a drawing canvas. On the Insert tab, in the Illustrations group, click Shapes, and then click New Drawing Canvas. Office Word 2007 adds
If you want each label to contain a different address, click New Document and type the address you want on each label. Then on the File tab, click Print, and click the Print button. Tip To see the borders between labels, under Table Tools, on the Layout tab, and click View Gridlines. 
Two Methods: Add a Border to a Word Document Using the Page Borders Feature Add a Border to a Word Document Using Clip Art. A page border can serve as a graphic enhancement for a variety of documents, such as letters, flyers, notices and signs. 1. Choose the borders settings. Open the document you wish to add a border to and click the Page Layout tab. Select the Page Borders button, located in the Page Background menu on the toolbar. The Borders and Shading dialogue box will open.
Remember, labels are Word tables. If you select the text in a label and apply a paragraph border that should get the effect you want. Yes, it will be time-consuming. You may want to save it as a template without the text when you are done. Every time I try it, it adds borders everywhere, including the areas between the labels. I have to draw borders on one at a time to get what I want, and that is time consuming. Have tried adding borders as text, cells, paragraph and table-highlighting table and not-nothing works.
If you are doing a full page of the same labels click on New Document instead of Print. Now select the labels (Table). Next go to Table then Table Properties and click on Borders and Shading. Now you labels are displayed in a new document and you can Save the file or Print it. 
There is no direct method to apply borders to a label in Word. You may refer the link below which discuss a similar issue and see if it helps. http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/office/forum/office_xp-word/can-i-put-a-border-on-a-label/43068b6e-1e4f-4620-aa33-08c5f1026a74. Every time I try it, it adds borders everywhere, including the areas between the labels. I have to draw borders on one at a time to get what I want, and that is time consuming. Have tried adding borders as text, cells, paragraph and table-highlighting table and not-nothing works.
If you want a customized border for the labels, select the label document and go to the Borders and Shading dialog box, under Settings choose All, and then choose a different Style, Color or Width; under Apply to: choose Paragraph. 1 person found this helpful. If you want to add borders to the label content, then you can certainly use paragraph borders, but, as you say, you would have to experiment with the distance from text. There is no such option when dealing with table borders.
Labels are set up as a table. If you just apply borders to the labels as a whole, you're adding table borders. If you want to add borders to the label content, then you can certainly use paragraph borders, but, as you say, you would have to experiment with the distance from text. There is no such option when dealing with table borders.
Instructions. Open Word. Select Mailings, then click Create and Labels to open the Label options dialog box. Select a product number that corresponds with your name tag sheets. Click OK to close the dialog. Select Print to open the Print dialog box. Mark the Full page of the same label option. 