The independence wars in Chile (1810–1818) and Peru (1809–1824) had a negative impact on the Chilean wheat industry. Trade was disrupted and armies in Chile pillaged the countryside. Depending on what terms are used to define its end, it lasted until 1821, when royalist forces were expelled from mainland Chile; or until 1826, when the last Spanish troops surrendered and the Chiloe Chiloé archipelago was incorporated to The chilean. republic
Chile won its formal independence when San Mart n defeated the last large Spanish force on Chilean soil at the Battle of Maip on April 5, 1818. San Mart n then led his Argentine and Chilean followers north to liberate Peru; and fighting continued in Chile's southern provinces, the bastion of the royalists, until 1826. Chile Table of Contents. Aristocratic Chileans began considering independence only when the authority and legitimacy of the crown were cast in doubt by Napoleon Bonaparte's invasion of Spain in 1807.
A declaration of independence was officially issued by Chile on February 12, 1818 and formally recognized by Spain in 1844, when full diplomatic relations were established. The Chilean War of Independence was part of the more aroused Spanish American wars of independence. Independence did not have unanimous support among Chileans, who were divided between independentists and royalists. Depending on what terms are used to define its end, it lasted until 1821, when royalist forces were expelled from mainland Chile; or until 1826, when the last Spanish troops surrendered and the Chiloe Chiloé archipelago was incorporated to The chilean. republic
Prelude to Independence: In 1810, Chile was a relatively small and isolated part of the Spanish Empire. It was ruled by a governor, appointed by the Spanish, who answered to the Viceroy in Buenos Aires. Today, September 18 is celebrated in Chile as their Independence Day. It is remembered with the fiestas patrias or national parties.. The celebrations kick off in early September and can last for weeks.
By Christopher Minster. Independence from Spain came suddenly for most of Latin America. Between 1810 and 1825, most of Spain's former colonies had declared and won independence and had divided up into republics. Sentiment had been growing in the colonies for some time, dating back to the American Revolution.
Peru got its independence on July 28th, 1821, and Uruguay on August 25, 1825. Chile declared its independence on 1810, but it came officially the next year, and is celebrated on the 8th of September. Bolivia earned independence on August 6, 1822, and country was named Bolivia after Simon Bolivar, the South American hero of the independence war.
On the 4th day of July, 1776 America, specifically the Thirteen Colonies, formally declared its independence from Great Britain. For more than a year before this, Great Britain and the Thirteen Colonies had been waging war against each other. In summary, here are events leading to when did America gain independence. 
On September 18, 1810, Chile broke from Spanish rule, declaring their independence (although they still were theoretically loyal to King Ferdinand VII of Spain, then a captive of the French). Today, September 18 is celebrated in Chile as their Independence Day. It is remembered with the fiestas patrias or national parties.. The celebrations kick off in early September and can last for weeks.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Argentine War of Independence was fought from 1810 to 1818 by Argentine patriotic forces under Manuel Belgrano, Juan Jose José castelli And jose José De san martin martín against royalist forces Loyal to. the spanish crown 
The independence day of a nation commemorates the anniversary of a very significant day in the history of a country's struggle in the attainment of its freedom. The Independence Day of Peru is celebrated on 28, July to commemorate the anniversary of Peru's independence from Spanish rule in the year 1824. The Peruvian independence was first declared in 1821 by the Argentine liberator, General Jose de San Martin but absolute independence was gained only in 1824. 