Earth's Largest Volcano-Mauna Loa,Hawaii The largest volcano in the world is Mauna Loa on the island of Hawaii. There have been references to Yellowstone as the largest vol … canic system in North America, but most, if not all, scientific organizations recognize Mauna Loa as the largest single volcano. The world's largest volcano is Mauna Loa on the island of Hawaii. It only rises 4 km above sea level, but from its own base under the ocean (and into the ocean floor), its summit is just over 9 km above its base (approximately 30,000 feet). It also erupts regularly, with the latest eruption being in 1984.
The world's largest volcano is Mauna Loa on the island of Hawaii. It only rises 4 km above sea level, but from its own base under the ocean (and into the ocean floor), its summit is just over 9 km above its base (approximately 30,000 feet). It also erupts regularly, with the latest eruption being in 1984. Yes, out of the five super volcanoes in the world yellowstone is the deadliest. Yellowstone is the largest and most destructive active supervolcano (technically dormant). If i … t were to erupt the shake would trigger a chain event causing all sorts of natural disasters across te world.
Mauna Kea is one of five volcanoes on Hawaii's largest island—called Hawaii, too. At 13,795 feet, it's the tallest volcano in Hawaii, although it beats Mauna Loa by only 35 meters. Mount Kilimanjaro is 19,335 feet tall, which makes it the highest volcano in Africa and one of the highest in the world. Kilimanjaro is part of a chain of 20 volcanoes in what is known as the East African Rift Valley. Kilimanjaro itself has three separate cones -- Kibo, Shira, and Miwenzi.
Its top lies about 6,500 feet (about 2,000 meters) below the ocean surface, while the base extends down to about 4 miles (6.4 kilometers) deep. Tamu Massif dwarfs the largest active volcano on Earth, Mauna Loa in Hawaii, which measures about 2,000 square miles (5,200 square kilometers). 
The volcano is about the size of the state of New Mexico and is among the largest in the solar system, Sager says. World's coolest volcanoes. Tamu Massif covers an area of about 120,000 square miles. In comparison, the largest active volcano on land, Hawaii's Mauna Loa, is about 2,000 square miles, Sager says. Its shape is different from any other sub-marine volcano found on Earth, and it's very possible it can give us some clues about how massive volcanoes can form, Sager says. 
Earth's Largest Volcano-Mauna Loa,Hawaii. The largest volcano in the world is Mauna Loa on the island of Hawaii. There have been references to Yellowstone as the largest volcanic system in North America, but most, if not all, scientific organizations recognize Mauna Loa as the largest single volcano. Yes, out of the five super volcanoes in the world yellowstone is the deadliest. Yellowstone is the largest and most destructive active supervolcano (technically dormant). If i … t were to erupt the shake would trigger a chain event causing all sorts of natural disasters across te world.
Although Mauna Kea has had an eruption within the past 10,000 years—the most recent eruption took place 3,500 years ago—it's still considered a dormant volcano. However, Mauna Kilauea, also on the island of Hawaii and at just over 4,000 feet much lower in height, is very much an active volcano. Mount Kilimanjaro is 19,335 feet tall, which makes it the highest volcano in Africa and one of the highest in the world. Kilimanjaro is part of a chain of 20 volcanoes in what is known as the East African Rift Valley. Kilimanjaro itself has three separate cones -- Kibo, Shira, and Miwenzi.
It also eclipses Hawaii's Mauna Loa, the world's largest active volcano on Earth, which covers only 2,000 square miles, less than two per cent of the size of the Tamu Massif. The world's largest volcano spanning the size of the entire British Isles has been discovered on the floor of the Pacific Ocean. The Mauna Loa is the world's biggest active volcano but only is less than two per cent of the size of the Tamu Massif. Photo: ED DARACK/ALAMY. By Danielle Demetriou, Tokyo.
A volcano is a rupture on the crust of a planetary-mass object, such as Earth, that allows hot lava, volcanic ash, and gases to escape from a magma chamber below the surface. Earth's volcanoes occur because its crust is broken into 17 major, rigid tectonic plates that float on a hotter, softer layer in its mantle. 