The Toto Washlet uses water to cleanse and refresh while reducing the consumption of toilet paper. Washlets utilize amazing technology and replace a seat on any standard toilet. Explore the innovative features of each model on this blog. Experience the ultimate in clean comfort with an automatic, hands-free flushing system and a sensor-activated lid that automatically lifts as you approach the toilet and lowers as you walk away. A convenient, easy-to-use remote control affords you effortless operation of our most luxurious Washlet model to date.
Washlet (ウォシュレット, Woshuretto) is a registered trademark of the Japanese toilet company Toto, referring to electric toilet seats with water spray feature for washing. While it is commonplace at toilets in Japan, the term washlet may be used colloquially to refer to non-Toto seats with comparable features. The product line with only the heating feature are called warmlets by Toto. The Toto Washlet range of toilets and accessories include integrated bidet toilet seats, as well as add-on bidet seats for upgrading a standard toilet. The Toto Washlet S300 is one such seat
Toto, the leading brand, introduced its Washlet in 1982, and it’s been estimated that more than 70 percent of Japanese homes now feature a toilet seat with enhanced capabilities. (Meanwhile, only 30 percent have a dishwasher. But I think the Washlet is not a ridiculous purchase. I always hear people brag about the fortune they just dropped on a fancy mattress, justifying this expense by noting how much time they spend in bed. The logic pertains when it comes to the bathroom.
Wash features on this TOTO washlet are similar to the E200, but the S300e also has a water pulse feature which pulsates the water stream. Another additional feature are adjustable wash nozzles so you can find a nozzle position setting that feels just right. The other big difference is the water heating system. bidetsPLUS is an authorized dealer for TOTO, the largest manufacturer of bidet toilet seats in the world. We are proud to carry the product line of TOTO Washlets here at bidetsPLUS! TOTO originally started in the toilet business so it was natural for them to get in the bidet seat business as well.
And lastly, we also introduce the TOTO S350e. The TOTO S350e is identical to the S300e, except the S350e has the additional feature of a lid that automatically opens and closes when you approach the toilet. We hope you learned about the features and functions of the TOTO washlets we have for sale at bidetsPLUS. bidetsPLUS is an authorized dealer for TOTO, the largest manufacturer of bidet toilet seats in the world. We are proud to carry the product line of TOTO Washlets here at bidetsPLUS! TOTO originally started in the toilet business so it was natural for them to get in the bidet seat business as well.
100% MADE FOR YOU. 2015 marks the 35th year of Washlets. For 35 years TOTO has been developing every part of the Washlet to perfection. Since the first model in 1980, new innovations and features have been continually added, culminating into the latest model that is the epitome of comfort and hygiene. 
The TOTO S350e, TOTO S300e and TOTO E200 are the most popular TOTO washlets and we're pleased to introduce them to you. Let's start first with the TOTO E200 which is a mid-level bidet seat. The E200 is operated with a wireless remote control which can be mounted on the wall next to your toilet. bidetsPLUS is an authorized dealer for TOTO, the largest manufacturer of bidet toilet seats in the world. We are proud to carry the product line of TOTO Washlets here at bidetsPLUS! TOTO originally started in the toilet business so it was natural for them to get in the bidet seat business as well.
Undo. kashmi. We've had the s300 Washlet for about four years. We're in the middle of remodeling that bathroom and have been using our guest bath for 2 months; we really miss it-especially the nice warm seat in the middle of a cold winter night (we turn the thermostat down quite a bit at night). 