For example, =ISERROR(A1) will return TRUE if A1 is is displaying an one of the errors mentioned above, and FALSE if not. Frequently, value is supplied as a cell address, but you can use it to trap errors inside more complex formulas as well. 
Follow. In this article, we will learn how to use ISERROR function along with VLOOKUP function to ignore the error as result in Microsoft Excel. Considering we have this situation where we want to create a formula to check for each successful search. The formula should return that number, when the match is found. And, if an exact match is not found, the formula should return a text message to that effect, rather than an error in Microsoft Excel. If it is error in Excel Vlookup formula, we will use IF, Iserror and Vlookup function to prevent the #N/A error. Let’s take an example to understand how we can prevent a Vlookup function from returning an error when an exact match is not
In earlier versions of Excel, we have a formula called as ISERROR() that can check an expression or formula for error and return TRUE if so. This formula is not same as IFERROR, but we can use it along with IF() formula to get the same result. For eg. 
I think the formula does have an error in it. If you use the IF(ISERROR) function, to check for an #REF error, the function needs to be of the type; =IF(ISERROR(B6),error,B6). In that example, B6 refers to cell A1 in another sheet which I made to be non-existant, hence B6 shows #REF. So, I then put this forumla into D6. What it does is this. If False, then the value of B6 is displayed. You can use this. The data is imported into a range of cells, then copied using the ISERROR function into another range. Then use the 2nd range to do your checking and calculating, and referencing for the other sheets.
Note that when there is an error condition in B5, ISERROR(B5) would return the result TRUE. Therefore, as a second step, in cell B5, you want to insert an IF function that uses an excel ISERROR function to find out if an error or a valid result would be returned by the VLOOKUP that you already tested. To improve the situation, you can place the VLOOKUP function in an IF function, and then let it execute only if the VLOOKUP function will not return an error. You can use the excel ISERROR function to detect any error condition and on that basis carry out your own action. This may sound more complicated than it is.
This example illustrates the ISERROR function in Excel. 1. For example, Excel displays the #DIV/0! error when a formula tries to divide a number by 0. The ISERROR function checks whether a value is an error and returns TRUE or FALSE. 2. Use the IF and the ISERROR function. If a cell contains an error, the value 5 is returned
Use Excel's ISERROR function. The ISERROR function generally refers to cell references, not hard numbers. Say you want to find out if the range of cells A1:A14000 contains an error. Click your mouse on a blank cell and type the following formula: =ISERROR(A1:A14000). Don't put a period at the end of the function formula. Press Enter.. If Excel finds an error in this range of cells, it displays TRUE..
For example, you can use the ISERROR function in conjunction with the IF function to perform a different action if an error occurs: = IF(ISERROR(A1), An error occurred., A1 * 2). This formula checks to see if an error condition exists in A1. If so, the IF function returns the message An error occurred.. If no error exists, the IF function performs the calculation A1*2.