The talk page may contain suggestions. (October 2012). The nucleolus is contained within the cell nucleus. The nucleolus (/nuːˈkliːɵləs/ ; plural nucleoli /nuːˈkliːɵlaɪ/) is the largest structure in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, where it primarily serves as the site of ribosome synthesis and assembly. 
The nucleolus directs the assembly of proteins within the cell nucleus. The nucleolus is the part of the nucleus containing most of the genes that code for the synthesis of ribosomal RNA (rRNA: the RNA molecules found in ribosomes). So rRNA is synthesized within the nucleolus. The nucleolus (plural nucleoli) is a non-membrane bound structure and is the centre of the cell. It is composed of proteins and nucleic acids found within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells.
1 The nucleolus, whose primary function is to assemble ribosomes, is the largest structure in the cell nucleus. 2  The nucleolus organiser regions of chromosomes, which harbour the genes for pre‐rRNA, are the foundation for the nucleolus. Key Concepts. 1 
The Nucleolus is a 'nuclear organelle' inside of the eukaryotic Cell's nucleus. It's primary role is to synthesize messenger Rna which is rapidly exported, via the Nuclear Pores, to the nearly situated Ribosome peppered Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum. Nucleolus is a membrane-bound organelle inside the cell's nucleus which transcribes the two parts of ribosomes (rRNA) . A cell nucleus may contain more than one nucleolus. 22 people found this useful. Edit.
The nucleolus (plural nucleoli) is a non-membrane bound structure and is the centre of the cell. It is composed of proteins and nucleic acids found within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Its function is to transcribe ribosomal RNA(r RNA) and assemble it within the cell. Nucleolus is a membrane-bound organelle inside the cell's nucleus which transcribes the two parts of ribosomes (rRNA) . A cell nucleus may contain more than one nucleolus. 22 people found this useful. Edit.
Long story short-the nucleolus is where ribosomes are made (out of RNA and protein). They are made in 2 sections, a large one and a smaller one, which pass out of the nucleus into the cytoplasm. The function of the nucleolus is to help the process of protein synthesis. This is where the nucleotides come out during the time ready for transcription and translation during this process of protein synthesis. mtwaites · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 2. 1 comment. Loading ...
The nucleolus present in budding form of yeast is bigger than in other cells and covers almost half of the nucleus. Present in the nuclear matrix, the nucleolus is not surrounded by a membrane. The main components of nucleolus are ribonucleic acid (RNA), deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and proteins. The nucleolus function and structure can be understood with the help of information provided below. Structure of Nucleolus. The ribosomes subunits which are assembled get transported to the cell cytoplasm i.e. out of the nucleolus and then participate in the process of translation (protein synthesis). mRNA Biogenesis. The nucleoli are known to play an important role in mRNA biogenesis. The nucleolus is also involved in RNA metabolism.
The nucleolus is the nuclear subdomain that assembles ribosomal subunits in eukaryotic cells. The nucleolar organiser regions of chromosomes, which contain the genes for pre‐ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA), serve as the foundation for nucleolar structure. Key Concepts. 1  The nucleolus, whose primary function is to assemble ribosomes, is the largest structure in the cell nucleus. 2  The nucleolus organiser regions of chromosomes, which harbour the genes for pre‐rRNA, are the foundation for the nucleolus.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The nucleolus (also called nucleole) is a non-membrane bound structure[1] composed of proteins and nucleic acids found within the nucleus. Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is transcribed and assembled within the nucleolus. The nucleolus ultrastructure can be visualized through an electron microscope, while the organization and dynamics can be studied through fluorescent protein tagging and fluorescent recovery after photobleaching (FRAP). The function of the nucleolus is to help the process of protein synthesis. This is where the nucleotides come out during the time ready for transcription and translation during this process of protein synthesis. mtwaites · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 2. 1 comment. Loading ...