The notochord runs beneath the dorsal nerve cord, which is another chordate feature. This is in contrast to organisms such as annelids and arthropods, in which the main nerve cord is ventral. The chordate nerve cord is hollow, with pairs of nerves branching from it at intervals and running to the muscles. The slits are supported by gill arches, which have also been highly modified in various groups of vertebrates. Lastly, all chordates have a post-anal tail, or extension of the notochord and nerve cord past the anus. This feature is also lost in the adult stages of many chordates, such as frogs and people.
In some primitive species, the slits are used to filter food out of the water. In other species, like fish, the pharyngeal slits have gills. In other species, like mammals, the pharyngeal slits are only present during the embryonic stage. Chordates also have a dorsal nerve cord that runs down the length of the organism. The dorsal nerve cord has pairs of nerves that connect to the organism's muscles. In some organisms, the dorsal nerve cord expands into a brain at the top. All chordates have a post-anal tail. A post-anal tail is an extension of the body that runs past the anal opening.
For the leaf shape, see Cordate. Chordates (/ˈkɔrdeɪts/) are animals possessing a notochord, a hollow dorsal nerve cord, pharyngeal slits, an endostyle, and a post-anal tail for at least some period of their life cycles. 
Kangaroos, like humans, are vertebrates, which are a subset of chordates (having a dorsal nerve cord). Like humans, A dorsal nerve cord would be present on the back of the person or chordate. Some invertebrates such as arthropods, have a ventral nerve cord on the belly.. … This type of cord is usually made up of connected branches or a rope style chain instead of 1 solid cord that runs the length of the body
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2013). The dorsal nerve cord is one of the embryonic features unique to chordates, along with a notochord, a post-anal tail, an endostyle, and pharyngeal slits. The dorsal nerve cord is a hollow cord dorsal to the notochord. The dorsal nerve cord is later modified in vertebrates into the central nervous system which is composed of the brain and spinal cord. Dorsal nerve cord is mainly found in subphylum Vertebrata. Dorsal means the back side, as opposed to Ventral which is the front side of an organism. In organisms with Bipedalism dorsal is the back and ventral is the front
The dorsal nerve cord is one of the embryonic features unique to chordates, along with a notochord, a post-anal tail and pharyngeal slits. It is a hollow cord dorsal to the no … tochord. Like humans, A dorsal nerve cord would be present on the back of the person or chordate. Some invertebrates such as arthropods, have a ventral nerve cord on the belly.. … This type of cord is usually made up of connected branches or a rope style chain instead of 1 solid cord that runs the length of the body
Subphylum cephalochordata. Include lancelets which have a blade-like shape; notochord, dorsal, hollow nerve cord, numerous pharyngeal slits, post anal tail; muscle segments develop from blocks of mesoderm called somites on each side of the notochord. Chordates. these have dorsal, hollow nerve chord, a notochord, pharyngeal pouches and a tail extending beyond its anus all for at least part of its lifetime, second major group of deuterostomes.