The cecum or caecum (/ˈsiːkəm/ , plural ceca /ˈsiːkə/ ; from the Latin caecus meaning blind) is an intraperitoneal pouch, that is considered to be the beginning of the large intestine. It receives chyme from the ileum, and connects to the ascending colon of the large intestine. It is separated from the ileum by the ileocecal valve (ICV) or Bauhin's valve. It is also separated from the colon by the cecocolic junction. The appendix is connected to the cecum.
Macroscopic anatomy. The cecum is the first part of the large intestine. It begins caudally from the ileocecal valve and ends blindly in the right iliac fossa. Typically the cecum is located intraperitoneally in the right lower abdomen and has a length of 5 to 7 cm. Due to an incomplete rotation of the umbilical loop during embryogenesis however it may lie quite variably.
Anatomy The cecum is a short, pouch-like region of the large intestine between the ascending colon and vermiform appendix. It is located in the lower right quadrant of the abdominal cavity inferior and lateral to the ileum.... Click to read more below. The cecum is a short, pouch-like region of the large intestine between the ascending colon and vermiform appendix. It is located in the lower right quadrant of the abdominal cavity inferior and lateral to the ileum...
The ascending colon is the part of the colon located between the cecum and the transverse colon. The ascending colon is smaller in caliber than the cecum from where it starts. 
It is located in the lower right area of the abdomen. After digestion, peristalsis moves food residue from the small intestine through the ileocecal valve into the cecum and to the ascending colon. The cecum is also attached to the appendix. Summary Information: Cecum. Cecum: The cecum is the first area of the large intestine. It is a pouch-like structure that is a part of the digestive system and the gastrointestinal tract and connects the ileum of the small intestine to the ascending colon of the large intestine.
The cecum is the cul-de-sac at the beginning of the large intestine that descends from the union of the ileum and the large intestine. It provides a space for the mixing of bacteria with partially digested food from the small intestine to form feces. The cecum is a short, pouch-like region of the large intestine between the ascending colon and vermiform appendix. It is located in the lower right quadrant of the abdominal cavity inferior and lateral to the ileum...
Appendix. Extending from the inferior end of the large intestine’s cecum, the human appendix is a narrow pouch of tissue whose resemblance to a worm inspired its alternate name, vermiform (worm-like) appendix. 
The cecum is a pouchlike structure located in the lower right abdomen that absorbs water from the waste, returning fluid to the body and consolidating the waste for its journey through the end stage of digestion. The rhythmic contractions of PERISTALSIS move the remaining solid waste into the remainder of the colon. 