Certified Angus Beef is a beef brand. To help increase awareness of Angus beef and influence higher prices for their members, the American Angus Association created the Certified Angus Beef (or CAB) brand in the late 1970’s.
Let's see if Angus beef is really worthy of the hype. Certified Angus Beef standards were developed in 1978 in order to indicate a particular level of marbling, tenderness, age and color for the meat that qualified for the Angus Beef label. Angus Beef is known for its finely marbled meat, which means that the fat is dispersed evenly against the actual cut of meat.
Angus cattle, known as Aberdeen Angus in most parts of the world, are a breed of cattle commonly used in beef production. They were developed from cattle native to the counties of Aberdeenshire and Angus in Scotland. Angus cattle are naturally polled and solid black or red although the udder may be white.
Angus steak is high quality beef from the Angus breed of cattle which originated centuries ago in Scotland. The black and red hornless cattle are bred for their tender succulent, tasty meat.
Angus beef is touted a lot at restaurants these days. While Angus steaks are pretty obvious, you’ll also find Angus burgers. And Angus tapa…and Angus pizza. And Angus sisig, Angus skewers, Angus ravioli, Angus barbecue, Angus short ribs, Angus bistek, Angus tapsilog, Angus salpicao, Angus sinigang and Angus kare-kare.
What's so Great About Angus: Angus beef develops with better marbling than most cattle. Marbling is the amount of intramuscular fat. Most people agree that marbling improves flavor, tenderness, and keeps meat moist while cooking (especially at high temperatures).
(All Certified Angus Beef patties are made from Angus cattle, but not all Angus cattle are Certified Angus Beef.) CAB sells only beef that's in the top two-thirds on the USDA quality scale—it must be Prime or Choice, with modest marbling, a 10- to 16-square-inch rib-eye area, and no neck hump that exceeds 2 inches.
What is Angus: Angus is a breed of cattle. It is not a quality of beef, it does not imply that the beef is organic, natural, or of a higher grade than any other type of beef. Angus were specifically breed from the indigenous cattle of Scotland by Hugh Watson in the mid-nineteenth century.