influenza the flu is a disease that primarily affects people s airways and lungs it is caused by influenza viruses that easily spread from person to person each flu season several different flu viruses spread flu can be very serious for infants and children especially under 2 years of age pregnant women people with diabetes people with asthma
Influenza, commonly called the flu, is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. Symptoms include fever, headache, extreme tiredness, dry cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, and muscle aches. In the United States, influenza is associated with approximately 200,000 hospitalizations each year. However, there are many other respiratory viruses, such as parainfluenza, RSV, adenovirus, enterovirus, and human metapneumovirus that can cause the same symptoms as influenza (fever, cough, sore throat). Furthermore, many use the term stomach flu or GI flu to describe vomiting, nausea, or diarrhea.
Influenza, commonly known as the flu , is an infectious disease caused by the influenza virus. Symptoms can be mild to severe. The most common symptoms include: a high fever, runny nose, sore throat, muscle pains, headache, coughing, and feeling tired. Flu symptoms in birds are variable and can be unspecific. The symptoms following infection with low-pathogenicity avian influenza may be as mild as ruffled feathers, a small reduction in egg production, or weight loss combined with minor respiratory disease.
Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents, their multiplication, and the reaction of host tissues to these organisms and the toxins they produce. Infectious disease, also known as transmissible disease or communicable disease, is illness resulting from an infection. The symptoms of an infection depend on the type of disease. Some signs of infection affect the whole body generally, such as fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, fevers, night sweats, chills, aches and pains. Others are specific to individual body parts, such as skin rashes, coughing, or a runny nose.
Background. Influenza, one of the most common infectious diseases, is a highly contagious airborne disease that occurs in seasonal epidemics and manifests as an acute febrile illness with variable degrees of systemic symptoms, ranging from mild fatigue to respiratory failure and death. 
Person to Person. People with flu can spread it to others up to about 6 feet away. Most experts think that flu viruses are spread mainly by droplets made when people with flu cough, sneeze or talk. These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs. 
Flu (Influenza). The flu is a common infectious disease caused by influenza (flu) viruses. The flu usually affects a person's breathing system. Seasonal flu generally occurs in the fall and winter and is caused by human influenza viruses. 1  Flu Frequently Asked Questions. [ 2  English ] [ Spanish ] [ Chinese ]. The usual signs and symptoms of the flu are cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, body aches, headache, chills, and feeling very tired. Most people also have a fever. Others may throw-up and have diarrhea.
The flu is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. It can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. Some people, such as older people, young children, and people with certain health conditions, are at high risk for serious flu complications. Every year in the United States: 1 The flu is worse than the common cold, and symptoms such as fever, body aches, extreme tiredness and dry cough are more common and intense. 2  People with colds are more likely to have a runny or stuffy nose.
Influenza, more commonly referred to as flu, impacts people of all ages. Influenza is a highly contagious viral infection of the nose, throat, and lungs that occurs most often in the late fall, winter, and early spring. It is a serious infection that affects between 5-20% of the US population annually.