Are You on the Government's 'No Fly' List? A new book reveals how thousands of Americans who do not fit a terrorist profile are routinely harassed and detained at the airport. These agencies gave the list to the TSA and the commercial airlines. 60 Minutes got one copy of the list: It was 540 pages long. That list of people to be taken aside for extra screening had 75,000 names on it. The more stringent no-fly list had 45,000 names; before 9/11 there were just 16 names.
The No Fly list is a subset of a larger database managed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). This larger database, called the Terrorist Screening Database (TSDB) is the US Government's consolidated database containing the identity information of known or suspected terrorists. In additino to the No Fly list, there is a separate database, also developed from the TSDB, called the Selectee list. This list includes names of individuals whom air carriers are required to select for additional screening prior to permitting them to board an aircraft.
Anonymous said... SSSS for Some Reason said... First, your post mentions the No-Fly list and the Selectee List but you only address one of those lists by your example. Which leads me to the second point and that is the gross violation of Due Process the Selectee List presents. Here is some information from a post I wrote a few years ago. The No Fly List is a list of individuals who are prohibited from boarding an aircraft. Another list – the Selectee list-is a list of individuals who must undergo additional security screening before being permitted to board
So, how does the U.S. No Fly List actually work? Those placed on the No Fly List are not permitted to board a commercial aircraft for travel in or out of the United States, and has even been used to divert aircraft containing persons on the list who are not traveling to or from the U.S. away from U.S. airspace. The No Fly List is currently the subject of a number of different lawsuits against the U.S. governement, primarily for preventing travel by those who claim no affiliation or knowledge of terrorist groups other than what they have heard in the news.
(Incidentally, although the No-Fly List is used by the TSA, it is created and maintained by a different, multi-agency, government organization, the Terrorist Screening Center (TSC). A Very Brief History of the No-Fly List. by Jeffrey Kahn · January 7, 2010. In the aftermath of the near catastrophe aboard Northwest Flight 253 on Christmas Day, Washington is clamoring for more names, faster, on
The No Fly List is different from the Terrorist Watch List, a much longer list of people said to be suspected of some involvement with terrorism. The airline did not check the No Fly List for added names when Shahzad made his reservation that evening, when he later purchased the ticket, or when he was allowed to board the plane. Only after a routine post-boarding check revealed that he was on the No Fly List did agents board the plane and arrest him.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: no-fly list (Noun). A confidential list containing the names of people who are not permitted to board an aircraft, prepared by government authorities in various jurisdictions and distributed to commercial airlines. 
The No Fly List, the Selectee List and the Terrorist Watchlist were created by the administration of George W. Bush and retained by the administration of Barack Obama. The airline did not check the No Fly List for added names when Shahzad made his reservation that evening, when he later purchased the ticket, or when he was allowed to board the plane. Only after a routine post-boarding check revealed that he was on the No Fly List did agents board the plane and arrest him.
DHS TRIP application. Signs that you are on the No Fly list or Selectee list. If your name is in the No Fly list, Selectee list, or in some other kind of security related US governemnt database, one or more of the following may have happened to you: In additino to the No Fly list, there is a separate database, also developed from the TSDB, called the Selectee list. This list includes names of individuals whom air carriers are required to select for additional screening prior to permitting them to board an aircraft.
The No Fly List is a list, created and maintained by the United States government 's Terrorist Screening Center (TSC), of people who are not permitted to board a commercial aircraft for travel in or out of the United States. The airline did not check the No Fly List for added names when Shahzad made his reservation that evening, when he later purchased the ticket, or when he was allowed to board the plane. Only after a routine post-boarding check revealed that he was on the No Fly List did agents board the plane and arrest him.