Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
A term used to wish another player good luck when competing with him in a player versus player situation; commonly stated at the beginning of real-time strategy (RTS) games, such as StarCraft 2. Example. 
A perceived Elo level where it is very difficult or frustrating for a player to get out of. Elojob. When a low-elo player pays to a high-elo player, so that he can boost the low elo's account to higher elos, usually platinum or diamond. Usually refers to damage being done to tanks and fighters, who have the durability to survive such damage. Tanky DPS. An alternative term for a Fighter type champion. Though the term can be used to describe any champion that has obtained high survivability and damage through levels and items.
First Blood / FB-This is shouted when someone makes the first kill. The person that makes the first kill receives some extra gold. Focus Fire-You do this when you are with the whole team and you focus on one enemy in teamfights. Usually you target the most dangerous enemy. 
glhf. An acronym, which stands for Good luck, have fun. Meant as a salutation at the beginning of a game, usually a sign of good will.
GLHF is an acronym, abbreviation or slang word that is explained above where the GLHF definition is given. All A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Other 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9. 
I've never seen this term before. I'm familar with this term, but I don't use it.. I occassionally use this term.. I use this term all the time!. 
About. GG is an internet slang acronym which stands for “good game.” The term is typically used in competitive online multiplayer games as a gesture of good sportsmanship, either to acknowledge one’s own defeat or praise the opponent’s superior skills. The antonym of GG, BG (Bad Game) is used when a player feels that he or she has been outmatched by an overwhelming score or the game has taken an unfavorable turn. Beginning in 2010, the phrase became commonly used in the action game League of Legends, as well as World of Warcraft, Starcraft II and Call of Duty.
There are LoL terms that are used in and outside the game, with some terms being used to simplify and facilitate rapid communication. This is a list of these terms and their definitions. Please contribute to the page by adding more terms and definitions alphabetically. Usually refers to damage being done to tanks and fighters, who have the durability to survive such damage. Tanky DPS. An alternative term for a Fighter type champion. Though the term can be used to describe any champion that has obtained high survivability and damage through levels and items.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 