Alexandria is the largest city in the delta with an estimated population of more than 4 million. Other large cities in the delta include Shubra al Khaymah, Port Said, El-Mahalla El-Kubra, El Mansura, Tanta, and Zagazig. The Nile is considered to be an arcuate delta (arc-shaped), as it resembles a triangle or lotus flower when seen from above. The outer edges of the delta are eroding, and some coastal lagoons have seen increasing salinity levels as their connection to the Mediterranean Sea increases.
The Nile Delta in Northern Egypt is where the Nile River drains in to the Mediterranean Sea. It is around 160 kilometres (100 miles) in length and spreads out over 240 kilometres (149 miles) of coastline. 
The area of the Nile Delta is about 20.000 km2. The Nile Valley and the Nile Delta rank among the world's most fertile farming areas and are surrounded by a highly arid environment. The Nile is the longest river in the world. It originates near the equator and flows nearly 7000 km northward. The Delta begins approximately 20 km north of Cairo and extends North for about 150 km. At the coast the delta is about 250 km wide, from Alexandria in the west to Port Said in the east.
It is one of the world's largest river deltas—from Alexandria in the west to Port Said in the east, it covers 240 kilometres (150 mi) of Mediterranean coastline—and is a rich agricultural region. From north to south the delta is approximately 160 kilometres (99 mi) in length. The Nile is considered to be an arcuate delta (arc-shaped), as it resembles a triangle or lotus flower when seen from above. The outer edges of the delta are eroding, and some coastal lagoons have seen increasing salinity levels as their connection to the Mediterranean Sea increases.
Clue: Nile delta city. Nile delta city is a crossword puzzle clue that we have spotted 5 times. There are related clues (shown below). 1  CAIRO. Likely related crossword puzzle clues. 1  Illinois city. 2  Mideast capital. 3  African capital. 4  City on the Nile. 5  Egypt's capital. 6  North African capital. 7  Capital on the Nile. 8  Where Aida premiered. 9  Africa's largest city. 10  Nile city.
Gill. Definition: Flowing for 5584 km (3470 miles), the Nile is the longest river in the world. Its delta empties into the Mediterranean Sea. The beginning of the Nile River is south of the delta, which makes people from the Northern Hemisphere think it flows in the wrong direction. Lake Victoria, Egypt's largest lake and the second largest freshwater body in the world, feeds the Nile. In the classical period there were three dominant channels in the Nile delta, Pre, Ptah and Amun, according to Tour Egypt. Homer knew the Nile as Egypt's river; Hesiod knew it as Neilos, according to Nile Oxford Dictionary of the Classical World. Ed. John Roberts.
Thmuis is about a half kilometer south of Tell el Rub’a, the site of the ancient city of Mendes, reports Littman. Mendes was a dominant city in the Delta during most of Egypt’s history, from the end of the fourth millennium until the fourth century BC, in part because it was an important port. 
The Nile delta is situated in northern Egypt, where the river Nile reaches the Mediterranean Sea. The Nile is the longest river in the world. It originates near the equator and flows nearly 7000 km northward. The Delta begins approximately 20 km north of Cairo and extends North for about 150 km. At the coast the delta is about 250 km wide, from Alexandria in the west to Port Said in the east.
Cairo is at the apex of the delta. Just across the river from Cairo you can see the three big pyramids and the sphinx at Giza. The Suez Canal is just to the right of the delta. Here's an interactive map of the Nile delta. Use the + and-on the left to zoom in or out. At the botoom you can choose to show the map as a satelite or as a normal map.