In short a mascot is a representative figure, a symbol and a communication tool for somebody/some organization. At its best the mascot personifies their values, communicates effectively and helps them stand out from the crowd. I go over this in more detail here. The following elaborates on qualities of a good mascot – things to aim for. 1  Connection to company profession and values. 2  Simplest thing is to have character do the job the company is best known for. 3  Then give the mascot personality, style and way of doing things that reflect the best things the company stands for.
mascot noun [C]. › a ​person, ​animal, or ​object used as a ​symbol and ​believed to ​bring good ​luck: Their team’s mascot is a ​goat. (Definition of mascot from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). › a ​person, ​animal, or ​object that is ​believed to ​bring good ​luck, or one that ​represents an ​organization: a ​team mascot The ​Olympic Games always have an ​official mascot. (Definition of mascot from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus
mascot noun [C]. › a ​person, ​animal, or ​object that is ​believed to ​bring good ​luck, or one that ​represents an ​organization: a ​team mascot The ​Olympic Games always have an ​official mascot. (Definition of mascot from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
Mascot is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Mascot is located 7 kilometres south of the Sydney central business district and is the administrative centre of the City of Botany Bay. Mascot is on the north-west side of Botany Bay and contains Sydney Airport.
mascot. a person, animal or thing supposed to bring good luck. mascot. n. 1. a person, animal, or thing considered to bring good luck. [C19: from French mascotte, from Provencal provençal mascotto, charm from masco]. witch
mascot. 1  any person, animal, or thing supposed to bring good luck. 2  any person, animal, or thing adopted by a group, esp. by a sports team, as a symbol or for good luck: the team's mascot is a bear. noun. The definition of a mascot is a good luck symbol, especially for a team. An example of a mascot is Mr. Met for the New York Mets.
Audran's operetta was so popular that it was translated into English as The Mascot, introducing into the English language a word for any animal, person, or object that brings good luck. The word with this definition was then incorporated into many other languages, although often in the French form mascotte. Many sports teams in the United States (U.S.) have official mascots, sometimes enacted by costumed humans or even live animals. One of the earliest was a taxidermy mount for the Chicago Cubs, in 1908, and later a live animal used in 1916 by the same team.
Note also that I’m writing about mascots designed as company symbols, not about mascots designed for campaigns or for products. A well designed company mascot does lend itself to campaigns and merchandising, but things don’t work so well the other way around. The following elaborates on qualities of a good mascot – things to aim for. 1  Connection to company profession and values. 2  Simplest thing is to have character do the job the company is best known for. 3  Then give the mascot personality, style and way of doing things that reflect the best things the company stands for.
Noun. 1. mascot-a person or animal that is adopted by a team or other group as a symbolic figure. organism, being-a living thing that has (or can develop) the ability to act or function independently. mascot. n. 1. a person, animal, or thing considered to bring good luck. [C19: from French mascotte, from Provencal provençal mascotto, charm from masco]. witch