Vertebrate blood is bright red when its haemoglobin is oxygenated and dark red when it is deoxygenated. Some animals, such as crustaceans and mollusks, use hemocyanin to carry oxygen, instead of hemoglobin. The blood cells are mainly red blood cells (also called RBCs or erythrocytes), white blood cells (also called WBCs or leukocytes) and platelets. The most abundant cells in vertebrate blood are red blood cells.
The function of blood vessels is to carry blood around the body. Blood vessels are the passageway of blood. They are found all over your body. When any blood vessel is punctur … ed or cut,blood flows out. There are three kinds of blood vessels in the human body. These are arteries,the veins, and the capillaries. The function of the blood is mainly transportation. the blood leaves the left side of the heart oxygenated and full of nutrients which is then transported around the body via … arteries and veins. Blood is 50% plasma which is a straw coloured liquid.
The blood vessels, which include the capillaries, function to distribute nutrients such as glucose and oxygen to the body tissues and to carry wastes such as carbon dioxide an … d urea away from the tissues to be excreted. The function of the blood is mainly transportation. the blood leaves the left side of the heart oxygenated and full of nutrients which is then transported around the body via … arteries and veins. Blood is 50% plasma which is a straw coloured liquid.
Blood is a bodily fluid in humans and other animals that delivers necessary substances such as nutrients and oxygen to the cells and transports metabolic waste products away from those same cells. The blood cells are mainly red blood cells (also called RBCs or erythrocytes), white blood cells (also called WBCs or leukocytes) and platelets. The most abundant cells in vertebrate blood are red blood cells.
The function of the blood is mainly transportation. the blood leaves the left side of the heart oxygenated and full of nutrients which is then transported around the body via … arteries and veins. Blood is 50% plasma which is a straw coloured liquid. The function of blood is to absorb the nutrients that the body needs. Also to transport things to various tissue of the body, to remove things from the tissue in the body. Hop … e This Helps(: + 11 others found this useful.
The oxygenation of blood is the function of the erythrocytes (red blood cells) and takes place in the lungs. The sequence of events of the blood becoming oxygenated (in the lungs) then oxygenating the tissues (in the body) is as follows: 1  The Right Ventricle (of the heart) sends de-oxygenated blood to the lungs. : 2  1. Carbon Dioxide diffuses out of the blood into the lungs, and. 3  2.
Albumin is the main protein in plasma, and it functions to regulate the colloidal osmotic pressure of blood. The blood cells are mainly red blood cells (also called RBCs or erythrocytes), white blood cells (also called WBCs or leukocytes) and platelets. The most abundant cells in vertebrate blood are red blood cells.
Plasma is the often forgotten component of blood. White blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets are essential to body function, but plasma also plays a crucial, and mostly unrecognized, job, carrying these blood components throughout the body as the fluid in which they travel.
Red corpuscles of the blood carry out this function of carryingthe oxygen. (c) Blood carries away the waste materials that are formed in the tissues to the kidneys, lungs and the skin from where they are thrown out. (d) Besides the functions given above, blood serves another important purpose, that of defence. The function of blood is to absorb the nutrients that the body needs. Also to transport things to various tissue of the body, to remove things from the tissue in the body. Hop … e This Helps(: + 11 others found this useful.
Red blood cells at work. Hemoglobin is the protein inside red blood cells that carries oxygen. Red blood cells also remove carbon dioxide from your body, transporting it to the lungs for you to exhale. Red blood cells are made inside your bones, in the bone marrow. 