The cost for an inspection will depend on the scope of work and the cost of living in your market. Definitely try to find a licensed engineer with more than 5 years of experience (engineers know nothing coming out of college) and with experience with residential remodels and ideally historic architecture. Sue Archer, Agent, Orangevale, CA. The cost will be dependent on what type of service you need from the structural engineer. At one property, the seller had violated the truss when installing a whole house fan. The engineer needed to provide a report on how to remediate that ($400).
Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. A structural engineer has expertise and training in areas concerning the structural soundness of your home. You would hire one to both advise and plan a home or addition. A structural engineer is also the professional to call when your existing home has issues like foundation problems, sagging roofs or sliding chimneys. They help figure out ways to reconstruct those areas safely.
Before you begin any serious DIY remodels, hiring a structural engineer should definitely be a priority. Structural engineers often make short visits to a building site, so expect to pay an average of just $638 for their services. 
As such, they command a respectable amount of money for their services. Don’t expect to hire a structural engineer for a small amount. A structural engineer’s average cost is $100 to $150 per hour for their services. A job requiring a residential structural engineer will typically only last an hour or two. While this may seem like a large amount of money, they guarantee the work they perform. They are liable for any mistake in their calculations. 
Most residential consultations are for routine jobs. A short consultancy fee might cost as little as $200 to $400 if no further research is needed. If council requires a structural engineer's drawings and report, it can cost between $3,000 and $5,000 or even more. The structural engineer's job is to provide the technical knowledge to ensure a weight bearing structure is capable of handling the load placed on it. A structural engineer's hourly rate starts at around $100 per hour but can go up to $250 an hour for fully qualified professional service on a complex project.
For example, a building is designed by an engineering consulting firm, and receives $237,000 for their work. It is reasonable to anticipate that the structural engineer would then receive roughly $18,960. Pricing on their work tends to consider a few factors that other professions do not. For instance, the length of time that a structural engineer has worked in their field will usually increase the prices they demand for their services.
A decade later that same structural engineer can ask for $30.43 to $42.28, or between thirty and forty-five thousand per year for the same work. Today, according to Eng-Tips.com, a consumer can expect to pay roughly 8% of a total construction project fee to the structural engineer. Pricing on their work tends to consider a few factors that other professions do not. For instance, the length of time that a structural engineer has worked in their field will usually increase the prices they demand for their services.
Some structural engineers will charge anywhere from $100-150 per hour for their services with an average amount of $350-500 spent by homeowners and construction managers. Soil engineers cost on average $500-1,000 for testing the ground for any problems. 
The underlying hourly rate for a Structural Engineer ranges from $80 to $119 in most parts of the country. Usually, a minimum fee will be charged, which represents 1.5 - 2 hours of effort. In some cases, the quoted job price may be negotiable, particularly if other work is performed by the Structural Engineer. A Find a Structural Engineer that (i) has recently provided good work to someone you trust and (ii) passes a background services screening test. Compile a COMPLETE, detailed list of work and quality requirements (see the next section). Have the Structural Engineer prepare a not to exceed estimate.