Travel considerations for a journey between Derby and Northampton. By Road: If you were in a road vehicle maintaining an average speed of 40mph (64 kmh), it would take you approximately 1.59 hours to travel from Derby to Northampton for an estimated driving distance of 63.44 miles (102.08 kms) . Click here and use the Derby radius tool. The approx distance between Derby and Northampton in a straight line is 52 miles or 83.67 KMS See the maps and links below for additional information related to driving distances, fuel costs and estimated journey times for this trip from Derby to Northampton. Happy trails!!
East Midlands Airport in North West Leicestershire is situated between the three cities of Derby, Nottingham and Leicester. The airport is the region’s biggest public airport, used by over 4 million passengers per year. The highest point in the region is Kinder Scout in the Peak District near Glossop, at 2,088 ft (636 m). The centre of the East Midlands area lies roughly between Bingham and Bottesford.
Distance To Address, Place, City etc. This is an online tool to calculate the Distance and Driving Directions between two addresses, places, cities, villages, towns or airports in UK. This distance and driving directions will also be displayed on google map labeled as Distance Map and Driving Directions UK. The distance between cities of UK is calculated in kilometers(kms), miles and nautical miles. Distance in miles gives you the mileage between cities by this UK mileage calculator. 
The region has an area of 15,627 km² (6,033 sq mi), and is home to over 4.5 million people (2011). East Midlands contains four cities: Derby, Leicester, Lincoln, Nottingham, though other major settlements include Boston, Loughborough, Mansfield, Northampton and Skegness. The highest point in the region is Kinder Scout in the Peak District near Glossop, at 2,088 ft (636 m). The centre of the East Midlands area lies roughly between Bingham and Bottesford.
Derby Train Station is a major interchange point for East Midlands Trains services both to and from London and for our regional train services. From Derby Train Station there is direct access over its central footbridge, to the Pride Park Business Park and local football stadium with a nearby Park and Ride scheme to Derby city centre. A Skylink bus service from Derby train station connects directly to East Midlands Airport.
The distance line on map shows distance from East Midlands Airport to Northampton between two cities. If you travel with an airplane (which has average speed of 560 miles) between East Midlands Airport to Northampton, 
Nearest Station to Alton Towers. The nearest train station to Alton Towers is Uttoxeter Rail station. However, the Alton Towers Transport team run a number of bus services designed to connect with incoming train services from popular destinations such as Stoke-on-Trent, Leek, Nottingham and Derby. For example, if you are travelling from Sheffield then Derby is your best option, whereas if you are travelling from Manchester then Stoke-on-Trent is a good choice. For more information, on Alton Towers bus timetables and prices, go to www.altontowers.com/events/how-to-find-us. Find more Best Fares.
The East Midlands is one of nine official regions of England at the first level of NUTS for statistical purposes. The eastern part of the Midlands, the region consists of Derbyshire, Leicestershire, most of Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire and Rutland. The highest point in the region is Kinder Scout in the Peak District near Glossop, at 2,088 ft (636 m). The centre of the East Midlands area lies roughly between Bingham and Bottesford.
This is an online tool to calculate the Distance and Driving Directions between two addresses, places, cities, villages, towns or airports in England (UK). This distance and driving directions will also be displayed on google map labeled as Distance Map and Driving Directions England (UK). The distance between cities of England (UK) is calculated in kilometers(kms), miles and nautical miles. Distance in miles gives you the mileage between cities by this England (UK) mileage calculator. England (UK) Distance Chart (Distance Table): For your quick reference, below is a Distance Chart or Distance Table of distances between some of the major cities in England (UK).