SP Range Coalition PTE 17 Higher Education Washington Public Employees' Association-General Government V Range-Applies to certificated teachers (See RCW 72.40.028) Washington Public Employees' Association-VSD #37. Salaries may vary depending on whether a position is non-represented or union represented. 
High School Teacher Salary. (United States). The average salary for a High School Teacher is $45,612 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on pay for this job. A skill in Information Technology (IT) Support is associated with high pay for this job. Cons: Working for a company that is more of a company than a school is a tight rope to walk on. High School Teacher in Raleigh: Pros: Connecting with students and sharing my love of science.
In order to progress up the salary scale a teacher must demonstrate that they have met the applicable professional standard. Their school’s board of trustees (often delegated to the school principal) must attest that the teacher has met this standard. Secondary teachers can progress up to $73,000. Secondary schools can also allocate ‘units’ to teachers in management positions or to those with extra responsibilities. Each unit is worth $4,000 and is paid on top of a teacher’s base salary. Most teachers are employed on contracts which are directly linked to the salary scales in the relevant Employment Agreement. Refer to the links on the right hand side of this page for more information about employment agreements. The following information can be used as a guide.
Salaries. Most teachers are employed on contracts which are directly linked to the salary scales in the relevant Employment Agreement. Refer to the links on the right hand side of this page for more information about employment agreements. The following information can be used as a guide.
Average Preschool Teacher salaries for job postings nationwide are 44% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Teacher Elementary School in the United States is $54,255, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Teacher Elementary School in the United States are expected to make less than $54,255. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. The annual salary for someone with the job title Teacher Elementary School may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Teacher Salary. Teacher average salary is $40,005, median salary is $38,000 with a salary range from $20,000 to $1,693,120. Teacher salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Teacher salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. 
In our effort to build the most accurate list of teacher salaries by state, we have averaged the salary from multiple sources, including the National Education Association, job surveys, and private data analyses to create the Salary Comfort Index. 
Average Teacher Salaries. The average salary for teacher jobs is $28,000. Average teacher salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term teacher anywhere in the job listing