From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Chicken Divan is a chicken casserole usually served with broccoli, almonds, and Mornay sauce. It was named after the place of its invention, the Divan Parisiennne Restaurant in the New York Chatham Hotel where it was served as the signature dish in the early twentieth century. Its creator, a chef named Lagasi, created it as part of a contest, winning a small amount of money and creating the hotel's signature dish. In French, the word divan refers to a meeting place or great hall, and thus the name was chosen to imply a kind of continental elegance.
Chicken Divan. This great recipe was given to me by a friend years ago, and it's been a family favorite ever since. My daughters enjoy making this dish in their own homes and get the same enthusiastic compliments I always do! For a change, I sometimes substitute frozen carrots for half of the broccoli. 
1 Alternatively, place broccoli in a shallow bowl and cover with plastic wrap. 2  Microwave for 2-5 minutes (depending on the strength of your microwave) until crisp-tender. 3  Drain in colander. 4  In a medium frying pan, saute chicken breasts in olive oil until lightly browned, about 4-5 minutes per side. 1 Bring to a boil and then reduce to a simmer until the sauce is the consistency you desire. 2  Add just a dash of nutmeg. 3  Add 3/4 of the cheese blend and whisk until combined. 4  Add salt and pepper to taste. 5  In a 9x13 dish arrange chicken breasts (either whole or sliced) and broccoli.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Remove the outer wrappers from the boxes of broccoli. Open 1 end of each box. Microwave on full power for 2 minutes, until thawed. Drain the broccoli and put into a casserole dish. Add the shredded chicken. In a medium bowl, combine the soup, mayonnaise, sour cream, Cheddar, lemon juice, curry powder, salt and pepper, to taste, and wine. Whisk together to make a sauce. Pour the sauce over the broccoli and chicken. Mix well with a spatula. Place the mixture into an 11 by 7-inch casserole dish or 2 (9-inch) square disposable aluminum foil pans that have been sprayed with vegetable oil cooking spray. Pat down evenly and smooth with a spatula.
I “GOOGLED” Chicken Divan and this is what I found in wikipedia…. “Chicken Divan is a chicken casserole usually served with broccoli, almonds, and Mornay sauce. It was invented at and named for the by-gone Divan Parisienne Restaurant in the New York Chatham Hotel. The Divan Parisienne served Chicken Divan as its signature dish in the early twentieth century. 
No mayonnaise, no cream of whatever soups-just an old fashioned chicken divan recipe that is definitely worth the extra effort. You can substitute chicken thighs for the breasts and use any combination of shredded cheese that you happen to have on hand. 1 Bring to a boil and then reduce to a simmer until the sauce is the consistency you desire. 2  Add just a dash of nutmeg. 3  Add 3/4 of the cheese blend and whisk until combined. 4  Add salt and pepper to taste. 5  In a 9x13 dish arrange chicken breasts (either whole or sliced) and broccoli.
Chicken Divan is a chicken casserole usually served with broccoli, almonds, and Mornay sauce. It was invented at and named for the by-gone Divan Parisien Restaurant in the New York Chatham Hotel. The Divan Parisien served Chicken Divan as its signature dish in the early twentieth century. 
1 In a 9x13 dish arrange chicken breasts (either whole or sliced) and broccoli. 2  Pour sauce over top and sprinkle with remaining cheese. 3  Cover with aluminum foil. 4  Make several slits in the aluminum foil to allow the steam to escape. 5  Note: At this point, the dish can be frozen or refrigerated. 1 Bring to a boil and then reduce to a simmer until the sauce is the consistency you desire. 2  Add just a dash of nutmeg. 3  Add 3/4 of the cheese blend and whisk until combined. 4  Add salt and pepper to taste. 5 
1 Drain in colander. 2  In a medium frying pan, saute chicken breasts in olive oil until lightly browned, about 4-5 minutes per side. 3  Remove from heat and drain on paper towls. 4  In a small saucepan, melt butter over medium heat. 5  Whisk in flour and cook for 1-2 minutes to eliminate the taste of raw flour. 1 Bring to a boil and then reduce to a simmer until the sauce is the consistency you desire. 2  Add just a dash of nutmeg. 3  Add 3/4 of the cheese blend and whisk until combined. 4  Add salt and pepper to taste. 5  In a 9x13 dish arrange chicken breasts (either whole or sliced) and broccoli.