Alopecia is hair loss that can be caused by heredity, aging, disease, medications or lifestyle. The timing and course of hair loss can provide clues to its cause. For example, hair loss that comes on suddenly may be attributed to illness, diet, or medical treatments, such as chemotherapy or radiation. Another cause of hair loss is a condition called cicatricial alopecia, in which the hair follicles that produce hair are destroyed. Hair loss can be experienced by people with certain types of anemia, anorexia, and thyroid disease.
Alopecia areata is a disease that causes hair to fall out in small patches. Alopecia areata rarely causes total hair loss, however it can prevent hair from growing back. The condition is not life threatening, does not cause pain or illness, and hair loss can stop just as suddenly as it started. It may even grow back on its own without any medical intervention. The main symptom of alopecia areata is loss of hair in small, round patches (roughly the size of a quarter) on the scalp. However, other types of diseases can cause hair to fall out in this same pattern. This symptom alone should not be used to diagnose alopecia areata.
Hair loss, also known as alopecia or baldness, is a loss of hair from the head or body. Baldness can refer to general hair loss or male pattern hair loss. Some types of hair loss can be caused by alopecia areata, an autoimmune disorder. 
Alopecia areata is a type of hair loss that occurs when your immune system mistakenly attacks hair follicles, which is where hair growth begins. The damage to the follicle is usually not permanent. Experts do not know why the immune system attacks the follicles. When alopecia areata results in patches of hair loss, the hair usually grows back in a few months. Although the new hair is usually the same color and texture as the rest of the hair, it sometimes is fine and white. About 10% of people with this condition may never regrow hair.
Alopecia areata is an autoimmune disease that causes the hair to fall out in patches. Another cause of hair loss is a condition called cicatricial alopecia, in which the hair follicles that produce hair are destroyed. Hair loss can be experienced by people with certain types of anemia, anorexia, and thyroid disease.
Fast Facts: An Easy-to-Read Series of Publications for the Public. Alopecia areata is a disease that affects the hair follicles, which are part of the skin from which hairs grow. In most cases, hair falls out in small, round patches about the size of a quarter. Many people with the disease get only a few bare patches. Some people may lose more hair. 
1 Alopecia areata is a hair-loss condition which usually affects the scalp. 2  Alopecia areata causes one or more patches of hair loss. 3  Alopecia areata affects both genders. 4  It is an autoimmune disorder, in which the immune system attacks hair follicles, is believed to cause alopecia areata. 1 Alopecia areata causes one or more patches of hair loss. 2  Alopecia areata affects both genders. 3
Alopecia areata is considered an autoimmune disease, in which the immune system, which is designed to protect the body from foreign invaders such as viruses and bacteria, mistakenly attacks the hair follicles, the structures from which hairs grow. This can lead to hair loss on the scalp and elsewhere. 
Alopecia areata is a prevalent autoimmune skin disease resulting in the loss of hair on the scalp and elsewhere on the body. It usually starts with one or more small, round, smooth patches on the scalp and can progress to total scalp hair loss (alopecia totalis) or complete body hair loss (alopecia universalis). 
Alopecia is the medical term for baldness; there are various types of alopecia, including alopecia areata. Alopecia areata is a condition that causes a person's hair to fall out. It is an autoimmune disease; that is, the person's immune system attacks their own body. In this case, their hair follicles. When this happens, the person's hair begins to fall out, often in clumps the size and shape of a quarter