VMA testing is ordered when a doctor either suspects that a child has a neuroblastoma or wants to rule out the possibility. The doctor may order it, along with an homovanillic acid (HVA) test, when a child has an abdominal mass or other symptoms suggestive of a neuroblastoma. The VMA test may also be ordered when a child has been treated for a neuroblastoma and ordered periodically to monitor for recurrence. A VMA test may be ordered along with one or more metanephrine or catecholamine tests when a doctor suspects that a person has a pheochromocytoma.
Performance Evaluation. Value-added models in general are used to measure a specific impact or influence on a performance outcome. Value-added models are used often in the areas of health care, education and economics, for example. New! - Annual Legislative Report on Teacher Evaluation-2013-14 Evaluations (PDF). Whether or not VAM is a required component of a specific teacher's evaluation depends on the courses taught by the teacher. Section 1012.34(7)(b), Florida Statutes, requires districts to measure student learning growth using the formula approved by the Commissioner for courses associated with the statewide assessments.
A VMA test was once frequently ordered to detect pheochromocytomas, but the preferred tests are now plasma free metanephrines, urine metanephrines, and urine or plasma catecholamine tests. The VMA test may still be ordered along with one or more of these tests to help detect and rule out a pheochromocytoma. The VMA test may also be ordered when a child has been treated for a neuroblastoma and ordered periodically to monitor for recurrence. A VMA test may be ordered along with one or more metanephrine or catecholamine tests when a doctor suspects that a person has
In this manner, value-added modeling seeks to isolate the contribution, or value added, that each teacher provides in a given year, which can be compared to the performance measures of other teachers. In this way, value-added modeling attempts to isolate the teacher's contributions from factors outside the teacher's control that are known to strongly affect student test performance, including the student's general intelligence, poverty, and parental involvement.
Does that mean my 1899 coin is a VAM-x also? No, VAM numbers are uniquely assigned for each year and mint mark. Other than VAM-1 being the “normal” or unremarkable die for that year and mint mark, the VAM numbers do not mean the same thing for different coins with different mint marks or different years. Some of the VAM pages in this site contain price history information. VAMview also publishes a Retail Price Guide once a year that contains information on the TOP 100 VAMs, about 200 other Morgans, and the TOP 50 and additional Peace Dollars.
Value-added models, or VAMs, attempt to measure a teacher's impact on student achievement—that is, the value he or she adds—apart from other factors that affect achievement, such as individual ability, family environment, past schooling, and the influence of peers. To estimate his added value, statisticians obtain the 4th and 5th grade test scores of all his students, as well as information about their backgrounds (such as whether they were in a gifted program or a special education program).
Like VAM numbers, letters are also assigned in a one-up fashion. Keep in mind that VAM numbers for a specific date and mint mark are exclusive to that date and mint mark. There is no crossover. For example, an 1880-O VAM-2 does not have the same distinguishing characteristics as a 1882-S VAM-2. To know the die features that each VAM designation (number) shows, it is thus essential to have the appropriate reference books. In 1996 Michael S. Fey, Ph.D. and Jeff Oxman published the Top 100 VAM Keys. To this end, every Morgan dollar in existence is either already a VAM or should be a VAM. This is a continuous process, and new varieties are continually discovered and added to the list. VAM-1 is always the normal die state for a specific date/mint and has no distinguishing characteristics.
A 24-hour urine collection is a simple diagnostic procedure that measures the components of urine. The test is noninvasive (the skin is not pierced), and is used to assess kidney (renal) function. Twenty-four hour urine collection is performed by collecting a person's urine in a special container over a 24-hour period. The container must be kept cool during this time until it is returned to the lab for analysis. The results of a 24-hour urine collection may provide information to help your doctor make or confirm a diagnosis. Related procedures that may be used to diagnose kidney disease include kidney ultrasound, kidney scan, kidney biopsy, and renal arteriogram.
The value of a VAM is a very hard question to answer. The price will be a combination of many factors including rarity, grade, the desirability of the VAM feature and other reasons. Some VAMs are exceedingly rare, others are very common. Some become rare above a certain grade. Some of the VAM pages in this site contain price history information. VAMview also publishes a Retail Price Guide once a year that contains information on the TOP 100 VAMs, about 200 other Morgans, and the TOP 50 and additional Peace Dollars.