1 The main purpose of the International Monetary Fund is to create an economic system that can instill stability and growth in the world economy by economic cooperation among the nations. 2  It aims at establishing exchange rate stability, and elimination of the shortage of international liquidity. 
The IMF’s responsibilities: The IMF's primary purpose is to ensure the stability of the international monetary system—the system of exchange rates and international payments that enables countries (and their citizens) to transact with each other. The IMF, also known as the Fund, was conceived at a United Nations conference convened in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, United States, in July 1944.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is an organization of 188 countries, working to foster global monetary cooperation, secure financial stability, facilitate international trade, promote high employment and sustainable economic growth, and reduce poverty around the world. Our Work. The IMF’s fundamental mission is to ensure the stability of the international monetary system. It does so in three ways: keeping track of the global economy and the economies of member countries; lending to countries with balance of payments difficulties; and giving practical help to members.
The IMF's responsibilities: The IMF's primary purpose is to ensure the stability of the international monetary system—the system of exchange rates and international payments that enables countries (and their citizens) to transact with each other. Our Work. The IMF’s fundamental mission is to ensure the stability of the international monetary system. It does so in three ways: keeping track of the global economy and the economies of member countries; lending to countries with balance of payments difficulties; and giving practical help to members.
All these factors led to declining world trade, high unemployment, and plummeting living standards in many countries. In 1944, the Bretton Woods Agreement established a new international monetary system. The creation of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank were two of its most enduring legacies. The World Bank and the IMF, often called the Bretton Woods Institutions, are twin intergovernmental pillars supporting the structure of the world’s economic and financial order. 
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) promotes international financial stability and monetary cooperation. It also seeks to facilitate international trade, promote high employment and sustainable economic growth, and reduce poverty around the world. The IMF, also known as the Fund, was conceived at a United Nations conference convened in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, United States, in July 1944.
Through loans, often to governments whose constituents suffer the most under the global economy, and structural adjustment policies, the World Bank (WB) International Monetary Fund (IMF) has kept most nations of the global south in poverty. 
The purpose of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) was to prevent another Great Depression. Functions of the IMF   IMF describes itself as an organization of 184 countries, working to foster global monetary cooperation, secure financial stability, facilitate in … ternational trade, promote high employment and sustainable economic growth, and reduce poverty.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is an international organization created for the purpose of standardizing global financial relations and exchange rates. The IMF generally monitors the global economy, and its core goal is to economically strengthen its member countries. Specifically, the IMF was created with the intention of: 1. Promoting global monetary and exchange stability. 2. Facilitating the expansion and balanced growth of international trade. 3. Assisting in the establishment of a multilateral system of payments for current transaction