My question is adressed in the first place to those who follow lc diets that require you to monitor whether you're in ketosis or not, such as atkins, stillman's etc. How many days does it take you until you know you're in ketosis? When do you usually start developing first symptoms of ketosis? I started yesterday and already at the small level on the Ketone stick. Done Atkins before and lost 30# in 1 month. I believe the trick is to find the right food combos that keep you full.
· just now. Report Abuse. Everyone is different, and it really does depend on how many calories you consume.(contrary to popular belief you cannot eat an endless amount of bacon and eggs) I lose weight really fast when I Atkins, I can drop 10-15 lbs in the first two weeks, then 3-4 lbs a week after that. 
You can also buy Ketone Test Strips at Netrition.com. How Long Does It Usually Take To Get Into Ketosis? The body can only store a two-day supply of glucose in the form of glycogen, so after two days of consuming no more than 20 grams of carbohydrates, most people go into lipolysis/ketosis. 
Water weight loss is common when you first start a low carb diet. Ketosis has a diuretic effect to it that can cause many pounds of weight loss in only a few days. While I hate being the bearer of bad news, this isn’t fat. You can view the 30 Day Keto Diet Plan to get an idea of what I eat on a regular basis, and how it all plays into calculating your macros. What your job here is, is to make it fit into your own macros. That means adjusting the portion sizes to make the calories higher or lower.
When the body is making and using ketones we say that the body is in a state of ketosis. Ketosis begins after about 48 hours (2 days) or water fast for women, or about 72 hours (3 days) of water fast for men. 
I'm on day 4 and still not in ketosis, according to the test strips. How long did it take you to get into ketosis? I'm having on average 15 carbs/day and twice I've had an Atkins snack bar. I drink about a gallon of water every day, and have one diet soda at night. 
The rate of weight loss on a ketosis diet varies, and how long it takes to work depends on how much weight you need to lose, but you may be able to lose more than 12 pounds in a month. Losing water and muscle on a weight-loss diet may zap your energy levels and your motivation, and you may be more likely to regain the weight. While ketogenic diets may be helpful at jump-starting your weight-loss efforts, it's not certain how effective they are over the long term.
Weight Loss. When followed as advised, people on a ketogenic diet for weight loss lose weight and lose it quickly, according to dietitian Juliette Kellow. According to a 2008 study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, men who followed a ketogenic diet for four weeks lost an average of 12 pounds. Losing water and muscle on a weight-loss diet may zap your energy levels and your motivation, and you may be more likely to regain the weight. While ketogenic diets may be helpful at jump-starting your weight-loss efforts, it's not certain how effective they are over the long term.
Eugenia 11687 · June 10, 2012 at 9:34 PM. It only takes 1-3 days to get into ketosis. But getting in ketosis is easy, becoming keto-adapted is the tricky part. It usually takes a month to get to the first stage of becoming keto-adapted, and it takes up to 2 years to fully train your body to use ketones fully. Add Comment 8 Comments. 
Getting Into Ketosis. Your body's preferred source of fuel is glucose, which is derived from carbohydrates. When fasting, your body undergoes hormonal changes that stimulate the release of fat from your fat cells, where it is transported to the liver and made into ketones, which are then used for energy. Losing water and muscle on a weight-loss diet may zap your energy levels and your motivation, and you may be more likely to regain the weight. While ketogenic diets may be helpful at jump-starting your weight-loss efforts, it's not certain how effective they are over the long term.