Imaging is indispensable in the evaluation of patients with cystic pancreatic lesions. Multi–detector row computed tomography (CT) allows thin-section scanning of the pancreas and has become the preferred imaging modality for both initial detection and characterization of pancreatic cysts (11). We have developed a simple imaging-based classification system for cystic pancreatic lesions that is based on the morphologic features of the lesion. A systematic approach that integrates these features with the clinical presentation of the patient can serve as a practical guide for the treatment of these patients.
Echinococcus granulosis cysts and multilocularis cysts of the pancreas have been described, although pancreatic involvement is exceptionally rare. E. granulosis cysts may be unilocular, multilocular, or complex cystic. On imaging alone, differentiation of these and other cystic masses is difficult. Mucinous cystic neoplasms (MCNs) of the pancreas are uncommon, and their diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis have yet to be uniformly determined in full. Differentiation of cystic lesions of the pancreas is difficult, as they can be benign (serous cystadenomas), inflammatory (pseudocyst of the pancreas), or malignant.
Echinococcosis, also called hydatid disease, hydatidosis, or echinococcal disease, is a parasitic disease of tapeworms of the Echinococcus type. The two main types of the disease are cystic echinococcosis and alveolar echinococcosis. Less common forms include polycystic echinococcosis and unicystic echinococcosis. 
Using a similar approach, we suggest a classification scheme for pancreatic cysts that is based on the imaging morphologic features of the cyst. Pancreatic cysts can be classified into four subtypes: (a) unilocular cysts, (b) microcystic lesions, (c) macrocystic lesions, and (d) cysts with a solid component (Fig 1). We have developed a simple imaging-based classification system for cystic pancreatic lesions that is based on the morphologic features of the lesion. A systematic approach that integrates these features with the clinical presentation of the patient can serve as a practical guide for the treatment of these patients.
To the best of our knowledge, an association between true cystic disease of the pancreas and choledochal cyst has not yet been described. Here we report a child with both a choledochal cyst and a true multilocular cyst of the pancreas, which may add pancreas cyst to the spectrum of abnormalities in choledochal cysts. It may also support the theory that choledochal cyst is a predominant manifestation of a widespread pancreatobiliary dysplasia. 3
The findings in our case adds pancreatic cyst to the spectrum of abnormalities associated with choledochal cyst and may also support the theory that choledochal cyst is the predominant abnormality in a widespread spectrum of the pancreatobiliary duct dysplasia. Copyright 2003, Elsevier Science (USA). Choledochal cysts and multilocular cysts of the pancreas. Xie XY(1), Strauch E, Sun CC. Author information: (1)Department of Pathology and Department of Pediatric Surgery, University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, USA.
Examination of the choledocho-pancreatico-duodenectomy specimen showed a multilocular cyst in the pancreas in addition to a segmental dilation of the common bile duct. Here we report a child with both a choledochal cyst and a true multilocular cyst of the pancreas, which may add pancreas cyst to the spectrum of abnormalities in choledochal cysts.
Description [edit]. A pseudocyst is a cystic lesion that may appear as a cyst on scans, but lacks epithelial or endothelial cells. An acute pancreatic pseudocyst is made of pancreatic fluids with a wall of fibrous tissue or granulation. Pseudocysts may form in a number of places, including the pancreas, abdomen, adrenal gland, and eye. 