1 Thrush (oropharyngeal candidiasis) is a medical condition in which a fungus called Candida albicans overgrows in the mouth and throat. 2  Thrush may be caused by a variety of factors, including illness, pregnancy, medications, smoking, or dentures. 1 Thrush in infants is common and usually not harmful. 2  Risk factors for thrush include weakened immune systems, medications, smoking, or stress. 3  Signs and symptoms of thrush include white patches in the mouth, inner cheeks, throat, palate, and tongue, as well as soreness and mouth pain.
Thrush (oropharyngeal candidiasis) is a medical condition in which a fungus called Candida overgrows in the mouth and throat. Candida is normally present in the mouth, digestive tract, and skin of most healthy people. The immune system and the body's normal bacteria usually keep Candida in balance. 
Oral candidiasis (also known as oral candidosis, oral thrush, oropharyngeal candidiasis, moniliasis, candidal stomatitis, muguet) is candidiasis that occurs in the mouth. That is, oral candidiasis is a mycosis (yeast/fungal infection) of Candida species on the mucous membranes of the mouth. 
Thrush facts. 1  Thrush (oropharyngeal candidiasis) is a medical condition in which a fungus called Candida albicans overgrows in the mouth and throat. 2  Thrush may be caused by a variety of factors, including illness, pregnancy, medications, smoking, or dentures. 1 Thrush in infants is common and usually not harmful. 2  Risk factors for thrush include weakened immune systems, medications, smoking, or stress. 3  Signs and symptoms of thrush include white patches in the mouth, inner cheeks, throat, palate, and tongue, as well as soreness and mouth pain.
Oral thrush occurs when a yeast infection develops on the inside of your mouth and on your tongue. This condition is also known as oropharyngeal candidiasis. Oral thrush is caused by the fungus Candida albicans. A small amount of this fungus normally lives in your mouth, but is kept in check by your immune system. An infection develops when the fungus overwhelms your body’s ability to control it. Oral thrush occurs most often in infants and toddlers
Oropharyngeal / Esophageal Candidiasis (Thrush). Candidiasis that develops in the mouth or throat is called thrush or oropharyngeal candidiasis. The most common symptom of oral thrush is white patches or plaques on the tongue and other oral mucous membranes. This infection is uncommon among healthy adults. 
Candidiasis is a fungal infection due to any type of Candida (a type of yeast). When it affects the mouth, it is commonly called thrush. Signs and symptoms include white patches on the tongue or other areas of the mouth and throat. Other symptoms may include soreness and problems swallowing. 
Oral thrush. Oral thrush is a yeast infection in the mouth caused by the Candida albicans fungus. Symptoms of oral thrush include sore, white patches in the mouth, an unpleasant taste in the mouth, a burning sensation affecting the tongue and problems swallowing. 
Thrush of the mouth, more commonly called oral thrush, is an overgrowth of the Candida Albicans fungus, a yeast-like organism that naturally lives in people's intestines, skins and mouths. These organisms typically occur in very small amounts, and are balanced out by the good bacteria in our bodies. 
A. A. A. Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women. 