Lime is a calcium-containing inorganic material in which carbonates, oxides and hydroxides predominate. Strictly speaking, lime is calcium oxide or calcium hydroxide. The process by which lime (calcium carbonate) is converted to quicklime by heating, then to slaked lime by hydration, and naturally reverts to calcium carbonate by carbonation is known as the Lime Cycle.
Kankar lime, a lime made from kankar which is a form of calcium carbonate. Selenitic lime, also known as Scotts' cement after Henry Young Darracott Scott is a cement of grey chalk or similar lime, such as in the Lias Group, with about 5% added gypsum plaster (calcined gypsum). The process by which lime (calcium carbonate) is converted to quicklime by heating, then to slaked lime by hydration, and naturally reverts to calcium carbonate by carbonation is known as the Lime Cycle.
Calcium Carbonate (Limestone) Calcium carbonate, the chief component of limestone, is a widely used amendment to neutralize soil acidity and to supply calcium (Ca) for plant nutrition. The term “lime” can refer to several products, but for agricultural use it generally refers to ground limestone. 
Definition of CARBONATE OF LIME. : calcium carbonate. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. 
Calcium carbonate is the active ingredient in agricultural lime, and is created when calcium ions in hard water react with carbonate ions creating limescale. It is commonly used medicinally as a calcium supplement or as an antacid, but excessive consumption can be hazardous. Calcium carbonate is a chemical compound with the formula Ca C O 3. It is formed by three main elements: carbon, oxygen and calcium. It is a common substance found in rocks in all parts of the world, and is the main component of shells of marine organisms, snails, coal balls, pearls, and eggshells.
The oldest uses of lime exploit its ability to react with carbon dioxide to regenerate calcium carbonate. When lime is mixed with water and sand, the result is mortar, which is used in construction to secure bricks, blocks, and stones together. Mortar is initially a stiff paste that is laid between the bricks. 
The main component is calcium carbonate. There are several types of lime. You can determine which one you need with a soil test. Lime with a high calcium content is referred to as calcitic lime and has the added benefit of adding calcium to the soil. Some limestone contains a significant amount of magnesium and is referred to as dolomitic lime.
Lime is a soil amendment made by grinding limestone, a naturally occurring type of rock that is very high in calcium. Two types of lime are commonly used in lawns and gardens, agricultural lime and dolomitic lime. Agricultural lime, also sold as garden lime, is made from calcium carbonate. 
Limestone is calcium carbonate mined from the ground and crushed for various end uses. When high calcium limestone is burned or calcined in a lime kiln, quicklime (calcium oxide) is produced. Quicklime can then be reacted with water to produce hydrated lime (calcium hydroxide). Quicklime has a much higher available calcium carbonate equivalent percentage when compared to limestone and a slightly higher value compared to hydrated lime.