Johnson, Andrew. While Congress had repudiated Johnson's plan for Reconstruction, Johnson sought to destroy the Congress' plan as well. The Congress relied on Secretary of War Stanton to carry out their policies. Johnson decided to derail Congressional ... Andrew Johnson.
Lincoln's plans for Reconstruction defined the moderate Republican platform (though technically he joined the National Union Party for that election cycle). But Lincoln had chosen Andrew Johnson as his vice president-a Democrat from Tennessee who had remained in the senate even after his state seceded from the Union. She has a BSEd in English Education. When President Abraham Lincoln was assassinated, the task of Reconstruction fell to President Andrew Johnson. He was soon at odds with many different factions in the nation.
Presidential Reconstruction. In 1865 President Andrew Johnson implemented a plan of Reconstruction that gave the white South a free hand in regulating the transition from slavery to freedom and offered no role to blacks in the politics of the South. 
The looming showdown between Lincoln and the Congress over competing reconstruction plans never occurred. The president was assassinated on April 14, 1865. His successor, Andrew Johnson of Tennessee, lacked his predecessor s skills in handling people; those skills would be badly missed. While Congress had repudiated Johnson's plan for Reconstruction, Johnson sought to destroy the Congress' plan as well. The Congress relied on Secretary of War Stanton to carry out their policies. Johnson decided to derail Congressional ... Andrew Johnson.
35a. Andrew Johnson, the 17th President of the United States, was pro-slavery throughout his career in the Senate and as the Military Governor of Tennessee. White House. In 1864, Republican Abraham Lincoln chose Andrew Johnson, a Democratic senator from Tennessee, as his Vice Presidential candidate. Lincoln was looking for Southern support. He hoped that by selecting Johnson he would appeal to Southerners who never wanted to leave the Union
With Congress in adjournment from April to Dec., 1865, Johnson put his plan into operation. Under provisional governors appointed by him, the Southern states held conventions that voided or repealed their ordinances of secession, abolished slavery, and (except South Carolina) repudiated Confederate debts. 1 Reconstruction: Johnson's Plan-Johnson's Plan Lincoln's successor, Andrew Johnson, at first pleased the radicals by 2  ... Calculator.
President Andrew Johnson ’s plan for Reconstruction, which lasted from 1865 – 1867. Johnson, a Democrat from Tennessee, allowed southern states to reenter the Union, but only after 10 percent of the voting population took loyalty oaths to the United States. Johnson’s Presidential Reconstruction was similar to Lincoln’s Ten-Percent Plan, though Johnson pardoned thousands of high-ranking Confederate officials. Johnson was also a critic of the Freedmen’s Bureau and attempted to do away with the program.
Johnson's Plan. Lincoln's successor, Andrew Johnson, at first pleased the radicals by publicly attacking the planter aristocracy and insisting that the rebellion must be punished. 1 Reconstruction: Johnson's Plan-Johnson's Plan Lincoln's successor, Andrew Johnson, at first pleased the radicals by 2  ... Calculator.
Andrew Johnson (December 29, 1808 – July 31, 1875) was the 17th President of the United States, serving from 1865 to 1869. Johnson became president as he was vice president at the time of President Abraham Lincoln's assassination. A Democrat who ran with Lincoln on the National Union ticket, Johnson came to office as the Civil War concluded.
Andrew Johnson Reconstruction Plan. Most of the seceded states began compliance with the president s program. Congress was not in session, so there was no immediate objection from that quarter. However, Congress reconvened in December and refused to seat the Southern representatives. While Congress had repudiated Johnson's plan for Reconstruction, Johnson sought to destroy the Congress' plan as well. The Congress relied on Secretary of War Stanton to carry out their policies. Johnson decided to derail Congressional ... Andrew Johnson.