[ 2 syll. eo - (i)(n) , eoi-n ] The baby boy name Eoin is pronounced OW-ehN †. Eoin is of Hebrew origin, and it is used mainly in Welsh, English, Gaelic, Irish, and Scottish. Eoin is a variant form of the Scottish, English, and Welsh Evan in the Welsh language. Eoin is also a variant form of the English and Hebrew John in the English, Gaelic, Irish, and Scottish languages. Eoin is also a variant form of the English and Irish Sean. Eoin is not widely used as a baby name for boys. It is not in the top 1000 names
Celtic Meaning: The name Eoin is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Eoin is: Young. Irish Meaning: The name Eoin is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Eoin is: God is good; God's gift. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony
Eoin is a Gaelic, Irish form of the name John. The name John, its variants and various language forms are all ultimately of Hebrew origin. The name John itself is the English form of the Latin name Iohannes which in turn is. The name John itself is the English form of the Latin name Iohannes which in turn is derived from the New Testament Greek name Ioannes. The name Ioannes was a form of the Hebrew name Yochanan (יוֹחָנָן). The name John is derived from the Hebrew elements yo an abbreviated form for the Name of the Lord and chanan meaning grace or favor.
Meaning of Eoin. Irish name. In Irish, the name Eoin means-young. Other origins for the name Eoin include-Irish, Celtic.The name Eoin is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-young. Origin-Ireland
Eoin /eoin/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced OW-in. It is of Irish, Gaelic and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Eoin is God is gracious. Irish form of John, by way of Ian, and referring to Saint John. Also Irish form of Sean. It is pronounced similarly to Eoghan and shares with it the anglicized form Owen. Eoin is an uncommon given name for men. Eoin is an equivalently unique surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Eoin for boys.
Look up John or john in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Eoin (pronounced like Owen , O-in , or Own , and sometimes spelt Eoin, Eóin eoghan Or eoin) n is An irish, name closely related to The welsh ' Name ' (owain anglicized ' As ') owen and related to The Scottish gaelic Name. iain 
Though Eoin is a Gaelic form of John, its Anglicized pronunciation links it directly to Owen. Eoin is currently a Top 30 name in Ireland. Other variations: Ewan, Ewen, Evan and Eoghan (pronounced as Owen but also translated as Eugene). Eoin Colfer is the author of the Artemis Fowl books. 