Description: Copperheads are fairly large 24 - 40 in (61 - 102 cm), heavy-bodied snakes with large, triangular heads and elliptical pupils (cat eyes). The body is tan to brown with darker hourglass-shaped crossbands down the length of the body.
All you ever wanted to know and some things you did not. Agkistrodon contortrix. Copperhead snakes are pit vipers or crotalids (family Crotalidae); poisonous snakes that are named for the two heat sensing pits used to locate prey that are positioned between the eyes and the nostrils. The genus Agkistrodon includes 10 species.
Copperhead snakes are some of the more commonly seen North American snakes. They're also the most likely to bite, although their venom is relatively mild, and their bites are rarely fatal for humans.
Copperheads can reach lengths of 40 inches (1.05 meter), but the normal size is in the 24 to 36 inch range. Copperhead snakes eat small animals, such as rodents, cicadas, birds, lizards, amphibians, and all sorts of invertebrates, such as insects. They are nocturnal and primarily forage during the night.
Copperheads are medium-sized snakes. Adults typically range in length from 26 to 42 inches. Still, most copperheads encountered in the field will be less than 36 inches long. The copperhead was aptly named because its most distinctive feature is the copper or bronze-colored top and sides of the head.
Copperheads are thick-bodied and have keeled scales. There is a temperature-sensitive pit organ on each side of the head between the eye and the nostril. Young copperheads are seven to ten inches (18 to 25 cm) long and grayer in color than adults.
Copperheads, Agkistrodon contortrix, belong to a subfamily of venomous snakes, known as pit vipers, which also includes the cottonmouth and rattlesnakes.
The northern copperhead (Agkistrodon contortrix mokasen) is the most widely distributed and locally abundant of Pennsylvania's three native venomous snake species. The timber rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus horridus) and eastern massasauga rattlesnake (Sistrurus catenatus catenatus) are the other two.