Surname Meanings & Origins. Learn about the origin of your surname, the history and meaning of your surname, if your surname is common and where it is common, and the how and why of name changes and variant spellings. View More. Learn how to find the meaning of your last name and trace your surname's origin back through history. Describes the different ways in which surnames developed and tips for tracing last name meanings and origins.
A family name (in Western contexts often referred to as a surname or last name) is typically a part of a person's personal name which, according to law or custom, is passed or given to children from one or both of their parents' family names. Issues of family name arise especially on the passing of a name to a new-born child, on the adoption of a common family name on marriage, on renouncing of a family name and on changing of a family name.
The use of a surname was originally adopted in order to distinguish two individuals with the same first name, and, at first, these last names were not passed down to the next generation. In Europe, the first surnames were first used about eight hundred years ago. Surnames usually originated from one of the five following sources: (although the same surname may have multiple meanings from different sources in different places). 1  From the first name of father used with either a suffix or prefix (which differ from country to country) to identify the person as son of.
1 The father's first name is used as a surname in certain Southern states, such as Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. 2  Spouses and children take on the first name of the father as their last name or 'surname'. 3  Muslim surnames generally follow the same rules used in Pakistan. Issues of family name arise especially on the passing of a name to a new-born child, on the adoption of a common family name on marriage, on renouncing of a family name and on changing of a family name.
family name. n. 1. a surname, esp when regarded as representing the family honour. 2. a first or middle name frequently used in a family, often originally a surname. n. The family name depends wery much upon you, Samivel, and I hope you'll do wot's right by it.
The given name is always followed by the father's first name, then the father's family surname. Some surnames have a prefix of ibn-meaning son of (ould-in Mauritania) The surnames follow similar rules defining a relation to a clan, family, place etc. Issues of family name arise especially on the passing of a name to a new-born child, on the adoption of a common family name on marriage, on renouncing of a family name and on changing of a family name.
45 Articles in: Surname Meaning | Surname Origin-Find the Meaning of Your Surname. View More. Learn how to find the meaning of your last name and trace your surname's origin back through history. Describes the different ways in which surnames developed and tips for tracing last name meanings and origins.
Full Definition of SURNAME. 1. : an added name derived from occupation or other circumstance: nickname 1. 2. : the name borne in common by members of a family. See surname defined for English-language learners. See surname defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The family name is typically a noun in the definite form or at the very least ends with a vowel or-j (an approximant close to-i). Many traditional last names end with-aj (previously-anj), which is more prevalent in certain regions of Albania and Kosovo. Issues of family name arise especially on the passing of a name to a new-born child, on the adoption of a common family name on marriage, on renouncing of a family name and on changing of a family name.
The history, meaning and origin of first and last names come from the Dictionary of First Names and the Dictionary of American Family Names respectively. Last name histories from SurnameDB are also included on ~50,000 names for additional information and context. The description or history of the name found in the Dictionary of American Family Names (Surnames) or Dictionary of First Names (Given Names). ©2014, Oxford University Press.