All rights reserved. The kidneys are a pair of organs located in the back of the abdomen. Each kidney is about 4 or 5 inches long -- about the size of a fist. The kidneys' function are to filter the blood. All the blood in our bodies passes through the kidneys several times a day. The kidneys remove wastes, control the body's fluid balance, and regulate the balance of electrolytes. As the kidneys filter blood, they create urine, which collects in the kidneys' pelvis -- funnel-shaped structures that drain down tubes called ureters to the bladder.
They mistake pains in the back or stomach as pain in kidney area. There is also a misconception about the location of the kidneys. Many people believe the kidneys to be located somewhere in their lower abdomen region. Actually, it is placed just below the diaphragm on each side of the body. It is important for you to pinpoint the location of your pain. You may just be mistaking the pain from a ligament sprain or a muscle pull injury as pain in kidney. Picture 1: Image showing location of kidney inside human body. Source: Wikipedia
Kidneys are any of the two bean-shaped organs situated just below the rib cages. As you must know, these are excretory organs that filter wastes from the blood and release them from the body. A pain in the kidney region typically arises when there is some ailment or interference in normal activity in the region. It is important for you to pinpoint the location of your pain. You may just be mistaking the pain from a ligament sprain or a muscle pull injury as pain in kidney. Picture 1: Image showing location of kidney inside human body. Source: Wikipedia
The liver is located on the upper side of your right abdomen below your diaphragm and enclosed by your rib cage. At the back of your liver is where the gallbladder is located and closer to the spleen, stomach, intestines and kidneys. You can actually feel your liver by laying your fingers under your right rib cage. The liver processes everything you ingest into your body, from foods to medicines, even lotions and deodorants
The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs (actually resembling kidney beans) that are located in the middle of the back, with one on each side of the spine. Envision two fist-sized organs lying just beneath the rib cage but toward the back, with other organs such as the stomach, liver and large intestine in front of them. 
Kidney. The kidneys are important organs with many functions in the body, including producing hormones, absorbing minerals, and filtering blood and producing urine. While they are important and kidney failure can be fatal, a human only needs one k... 1 Urea is synthesized in the liver and transported through the blood to the kidneys for removal. 2  Water level balancing: As the kidneys are key in the chemical breakdown of urine, they react to changes in the body’s water level throughout the day.
The kidneys are bean-shaped organs that serve several essential regulatory roles in vertebrates. They remove excess organic molecules from the blood, and it is by this action that their best-known function is performed: the removal of waste products of metabolism. Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneal space, the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal arteries, and drain into the paired renal veins. Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter which empties into the bladder.
Kidney pain facts. 1  The function and purpose of the kidneys are to remove excess fluid and waste products from the body. 2  The kidneys are located in the upper abdominal area against the back muscles on both the left and right side of the body. 1