BREAKING DOWN 'Total Enterprise Value-TEV'. Some people just use market capitalization as the value of a company, but some companies issue more equity than others, so this is why we include debt.
TEV protease is the common name for the 27 kDa catalytic domain of the Nuclear Inclusion a (NIa) protein encoded by the tobacco etch virus (TEV). Because its sequence specificity is far more stringent than that of factor Xa, thrombin, or enterokinase, TEV protease is a very useful reagent for cleaving fusion proteins. Failing that, the addition of extra residues between the TEV protease cleavage site and the N-terminus of the target protein is advised. We have used polyglycine, polyhistidine, and a FLAG-tag epitope in this position with good results.
In physics, the electronvolt (symbol eV; also written electron volt) is a unit of energy equal to approximately 160 zeptojoules (symbol zJ) or 6981160000000000000♠1.6×10−19 joules (symbol J). It is a common unit of energy within physics, widely used in solid state, atomic, nuclear, and particle physics. It is commonly used with the metric prefixes milli-, kilo-, mega-, giga-, tera-, peta-or exa- (meV, keV, MeV, GeV, TeV, PeV and EeV respectively). Thus meV stands for milli-electron volt
TEV protease (also called Tobacco Etch Virus nuclear inclusion a endopeptidase) is a highly sequence-specific cysteine protease from Tobacco Etch Virus (TEV). It is a member of the PA clan of chymotrypsin-like proteases. The structure of TEV protease has been solved by X-ray crystallography. It is composed of two β-barrels and a flexible C-terminal tail and displays structural homology to the chymotrypsin superfamily of proteases (PA clan, C4 family by MEROPS classification).
TEV protease is the common name for the 27 kDa catalytic domain of the Nuclear Inclusion a (NIa) protein encoded by the tobacco etch virus (TEV). Because its sequence specificity is far more stringent than that of factor Xa, thrombin, or enterokinase, TEV protease is a very useful reagent for cleaving fusion proteins. TEV protease is not especially stable and has a tendency to bind nonspecifically to column materials. The addition of “stabilizers” like sorbitol, glycerol, or salt may be helpful. For an example of on-column cleavage by immobilized TEV protease, see Puhl et al. (2009).
A TeV is a unit of energy used in particle physics. 1 TeV is about the energy of motion of a flying mosquito. What makes the LHC so extraordinary is that it squeezes energy into a space about a million million times smaller than a mosquito. TeV stands for tera electron Volts. That is 1,000,000,000,000 electron Volts or 10 12 electron Volts. 
DEFINITION of 'Total Enterprise Value-TEV'. A valuation measurement used to compare companies with varying levels of debt. This is calculated as: TEV = Market Capitalization + Interest Bearing Debt + Preferred Stock-Excess Cash. Some people just use market capitalization as the value of a company, but some companies issue more equity than others, so this is why we include debt.
Thermostatic expansion valve or TEV is one of the most commonly used throttling devices in the refrigerator and air conditioning systems. The thermostatic expansion valve is the automatic valve that maintains proper flow of the refrigerant in the evaporator as per the load inside the evaporator. 