Mold needs moisture and food to form. Moisture is important because  mold grows faster when it is very moist. Controlling indoor  moisture helps limit mold growth. Mold doesn't need a ton of water,  you could put a piece of bread in a bathroom or around a window  sill for mold to grow on it. Bread mold grows best in a damp, dark, warm, oxygen-rich environment. To prevent bread mold, keep the bread in a dry, lighted (sunlight), cool (frozen), carbon dioxide-rich en … vironment. Some warehouses have CO2 lockers where they keep produce for extended storage.
Bread mold is a type of fungus that likes to grow on bread because it is often warm and moist. Bread mold needs warmth and moisture, along with oxygen, to thrive. Bread provides an ideal substrate (or living surface) for various types of molds. Bread Mold Facts. Believe it or not, bread mold is actually a type of plant. Molds grow much faster than traditional plants, due mostly to the fact that their reproductive parts float around in the air, constantly looking for a place to land and thrive.
Five types of mold that grow on bread are penicillium, rhizopus nigricans, aspergillus, mucon, and Rhizopis stolnifer. Bread mold grows best in a damp, dark, warm, oxygen-rich environment. To prevent bread mold, keep the bread in a dry, lighted (sunlight), cool (frozen), carbon dioxide-rich en … vironment. Some warehouses have CO2 lockers where they keep produce for extended storage.
Penicillium. Fungi of the genus Penicillium, when growing on bread, appear as blue-green to gray fuzzy patches of colonies with white borders. Penicillium fungi grow well at low temperatures, so if you find mold growing on bread kept in the refrigerator, it is probably Penicillium. Apart from ruining your bread, Penicillium was the first mold found to produce antibiotics, and it is used by physicians to kill specific types of bacteria in the body. 
Mold doesn’t just grow on bread–it can also grow on anything moist and warm, like meat, shoes and clothes, even things that incidentally wet like books or a tile floor. There are many different types of mold in all different shapes and sizes. Believe it or not, bread mold is actually a type of plant. Molds grow much faster than traditional plants, due mostly to the fact that their reproductive parts float around in the air, constantly looking for a place to land and thrive.