Today, Marcus Asam is regarded as an expert in the field of skin care. Mirjam and Marcus Asam and their daughter Dana live in Munich, Germany, and Miami, USA, where they are also successfully presenting their M. Asam ® cosmetics brand on teleshopping channels. Following 10 years of in-depth research on the way in which grapes prevent skin aging, Mirjam and Marcus Asam established their own M. Asam ® cosmetics range.
Adam Levine. by ethnic on. Birth Name: Adam Noah Levine. Place of Birth: Los Angeles, California, USA. Date of Birth: March 18, 1979. Ethnicity: *75% Ashkenazi Jewish *12.5% German *12.5% Scottish. Adam Levine is an American singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, television personality, and actor. Adam’s maternal grandfather was also Jewish (his family were Jewish immigrants from England and Germany). Adam’s maternal grandmother was of (non-Jewish) German and Scottish ancestry. Adam has described himself as Jewish on a number of occasions.
Assam is surrounded by Seven States: Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Meghalaya and Sikkim. Together it is seven sister and a brother which becomes the North east of India. Geographically Assam and these states are connected to the rest of India via a 22 kilometres (14 mi) strip of land in West Bengal called the Siliguri Corridor or Chicken's Neck.
Assam shares international border with Bhutan and Bangladesh; and culture, people and climate is similar to that of South-East Asia – bringing the elements in India’s Look East policy. Geographically Assam and these states are connected to the rest of India via a 22 kilometres (14 mi) strip of land in West Bengal called the Siliguri Corridor or Chicken's Neck.
At the time, the family-owned Asam company was developing and producing skin care products. Additionally the Asam family established Germany's first production system for anti-aging ingredients from grapes. Following 10 years of in-depth research on the way in which grapes prevent skin aging, Mirjam and Marcus Asam established their own M. Asam ® cosmetics range.
Adam Rayner was born in 1977 in Shrewsbury but grew up in a small village near Norwich in Norfolk. He has a brother Matthew, six years his senior. Having an American mother and a British father means he has dual nationality, and the family lived in the United States when he was a child, albeit briefly, before returning to East Anglia. He attended ... See full bio ». 
Assam became a part of British India after the British East India Company occupied the region following the First Anglo-Burmese War of 1824–1826. Assam is known for Assam tea, Assam silk and the first oil well in Asia was drilled here. The state has conserved the one-horned Indian rhinoceros from near extinction, along with the pygmy hog, tiger and various species of Asiatic birds. It provides one of the last wild habitats for the Asian elephant. Geographically Assam and these states are connected to the rest of India via a 22 kilometres (14 mi) strip of land in West Bengal called the Siliguri Corridor or Chicken's Neck.
Smith was born in Kirkcaldy, in the County of Fife, in Scotland. His father, also Adam Smith, was a Scottish Writer to the Signet (senior solicitor), advocate, and prosecutor (Judge Advocate) and also served as comptroller of the Customs in Kirkcaldy. Adam Smith (16 June 1723 NS. – 17 July 1790) was a Scottish moral philosopher, pioneer of political economy, and a key figure in the Scottish Enlightenment. Smith is best known for two classic works: The Theory of Moral Sentiments (1759), and An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (1776).
Synopsis. Born in 1979 in Los Angeles, California, Adam Levine is the Grammy Award-winning lead singer of the band Maroon 5, whose success includes several chart-topping hits and gold and platinum albums. In 2011, he branched out to television as a judge/coach on the reality singing show The Voice. Adam Noah Levine was born on March 18, 1979, in Los Angeles, California. He formed his first band, Kara's Flowers, while attending the private Brentwood School with friends and fellow students Jesse Carmichael, Mickey Madden and Ryan Dusick.