A kangaroo is a marsupial, native to Australia. Its baby is the size of a jelly bean when it is born, and it grows and develops in its mother's pouch. Kangaroos are known for … their powerful legs, and all members of the kangaroo family share this characteristic of strong hind legs and short forelegs. Myth: The story goes that when the first European explorers saw these strange hopping animals, the like of which they had never seen before, they ask the native Australian peo … ple, the Aboriginal inhabitance, what these creature were called.
The kangaroo is a marsupial that is indigenous to Australia and and the Indonesian island of New Guinea. Although kangaroos are often seen congregating in groups, kangaroos are generally fairly solitary mammals but kangaroos are also known for being sociable animals when with other kangaroos. Kangaroos generally live to about the age of 23 when the kangaroo is in captivity. Kangaroos have a deep pouch on their front in which to carry their young. A baby kangaroo is called a joey. Kangaroos eat plants, nuts, berries and insects that the kangaroos rummage for in the arid wilderness. Kangaroos are most well known for their ability to jump a phenomenal distance. The kangaroo is the largest of the marsupials, a group an animals that includes koalas and the common brushtail possum
I have a book called tough love. I knew what I should do but couldn't for fear of what would happen to her. That's why it's called tough love.Don't let her destroy you like I almost let my daughter do to me and my husband. 
The explorers thought this was an answer to their question, mistaking it for kangaroo and the name of the animal. So, henceforth the creature was called kangaroo. Fact: However, according to the Oceaniaweb factfile, the above story is actually a myth. Myth: The story goes that when the first European explorers saw these strange hopping animals, the like of which they had never seen before, they ask the native Australian peo … ple, the Aboriginal inhabitance, what these creature were called.
Kangaroos. Kangaroos are one of Australia’s most recognisable animals. Australia has 4 kangaroo species—red, eastern grey, western grey and antilopine. The eastern grey is the most common species in Queensland. The eastern grey kangaroo adapts to changed landscapes that still provide shelter, water and grass to eat.
Fast Facts: Kangaroos are one of more than 240 species of marsupials. While marsupials are most often associated with the continent of Australia, they are also found in North, Central, and South America. There are nearly 60 species in the kangaroo family found in Australia, New Guinea, and nearby islands. 
Report Abuse. There IS, infact, A name for a phobia for the fear of Kangaroos, called macropodaphobia, and It IS indeed the right word. Dear, are you really afraid of.. I have a phobia of kangaroos and want to know the name of it. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines