The next layer after the mucosa is called the submucosa. This layer is a thick layer of loose connective tissue. Although this layer does not have any sub-layers, it does have blood vessels, vessels belonging to the lymphatic system, and nerves, some of which control digestion. In some places, such as the small intestine, the submucosa also contains cells that secrete mucus onto the surface of the tract. After the submucosa is a layer called the muscularis externa. Except for the upper portion of the esophagus, this layer consists of smooth muscle.
Most of the tissue in the digestive tract itself has four layers. These layers are called the mucosa, the submucosa, muscularis externa, and the serosa. The layer in the innermost part of the digestive tract is called the mucosa. The mucosa serves to line the cavity of the tract. The mucosa consists of three sub-layers called the epithelium, the lamina propria, and the muscularis mucosae. In some places, such as the small intestine, the submucosa also contains cells that secrete mucus onto the surface of the tract. After the submucosa is a layer called the muscularis externa. Except for the upper portion of the esophagus, this layer consists of smooth muscle.
The mucosa forms the inner layer of epithelial tissue and is specialized for the absorption of nutrients from chyme. Deep to the mucosa is the submucosa layer that provides blood vessels, lymphatic vessels, and nerves to support the mucosa on the surface. Several layers of smooth muscle tissue form the muscularis layer that contracts and moves the small intestines. Small Intestine. The small intestine is a long, highly convoluted tube in the digestive system that absorbs about 90% of the nutrients from the food we eat. It is given the name “small intestine” because it is only 1 inch in diameter, making it less than half the diameter of the large intestine.
The next layer is the submucosa which contains loose connective tissue along with blood vessels, lymphatic vessel, and nerves. The vessels serve to nourish surrounding tissues and to carry away absorbed materials. The next layer is the muscular layer that consists of two coats of smooth muscle tissue. The digestive tract, also known as the alimentary canal, extends from the mouth to the anus and includes several accessory organs that release secretions into the canal. The primary organs include the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. Accessory organs include the salivary glands, liver, gall bladder, and the pancreas. The walls of the digestive tract contain four layers. The inner most layer is the mucous (mucosa) membran
The submucosa is the connective tissue that surrounds the mucosa. Large blood vessels and lymphatics and occasional exocrine glands are found in this layer. A network of nerve fibers and neurons cell bodies called the submucosal plexus (Meissner s plexus) is present in this layer. The outer boundary of the mucosa is often marked by a band of smooth muscle arranged in two thin concentric layers, an inner circular layer and outer longitudinal layer. Contraction of the muscularis mucosae agitates the epithelium and alters its shape.
The layer of the digestive tract that contains blood and lymph  vessels and nerve cells is the sub mucosa. The sub mucosa layer is  located underneath the mucosa layer. Edit. Share to: Judy Olmsted. 78,944 Contributions. Taught College level A&P for 27 years. Biology Supervisor. The Dermis contains 2 main layers (plexi) of blood vessels, which can be referred to as the superficial de … rmal plexus and deep dermal plexus. More detail: The dermis can be split up into two layers, the papillary dermis and reticular dermis. One vascular plexus is situated in each.
This is the underlying layer of areolar connective tissue. It contains blood vessels, nerve endings, lymphatic vessels, and cells of the immune system. It provides mechanical and metabolic support for the epithelium and protection as part of the immune system. The outer boundary of the mucosa is often marked by a band of smooth muscle arranged in two thin concentric layers, an inner circular layer and outer longitudinal layer. Contraction of the muscularis mucosae agitates the epithelium and alters its shape.
The mucosa, or mucous membrane layer, is the innermost tunic of the wall. It lines the lumen of the digestive tract. The mucosa consists of epithelium, an underlying loose connective tissue layer called lamina propria, and a thin layer of smooth muscle called the muscularis mucosa. In certain regions, the mucosa develops folds that increase the surface area. Certain cells in the mucosa secrete mucus, digestive enzymes, and hormones. Ducts from other glands pass through the mucosa to the lumen. In the mouth and anus, where thickness for protection against abrasion is needed, the epithelium is stratified squamous tissue.
The intraperitoneal organs are suspended in the peritoneal cavity by fused double-sheets of peritoneal membrane called mesenteries. Mesenteries provide a conduit for blood vessels, nerves and lymphatics to the digestive tract and stabilize the position of organs. The outer boundary of the mucosa is often marked by a band of smooth muscle arranged in two thin concentric layers, an inner circular layer and outer longitudinal layer. Contraction of the muscularis mucosae agitates the epithelium and alters its shape.