The tender leaves or pads of the cactus, called nopales, often appear in boiled or grilled vegetable dishes, particularly in Mexican cuisine. Prickly pear extract and various other parts of the plant have many medicinal uses. While doctors of traditional medicine hesitate to call prickly pear cactus a superfood, they believe that it can supplement a healthy diet. The high-fiber cactus is rich in antioxidants and carotenoids. Practically the entire plant is edible and nutritious, from the flowers and fruits to the stems and leaves.
Benefits of Cactus Leaf in the Diet. Benefits of Cactus Leaf in the Diet Photo Credit Jasmine Beaghler/Demand Media. Cactus leaf, known also as nopal, prickly pear cactus or its scientific name, Opuntia, has been a food staple in Latin America for centuries. It is a common vegetable served in eggs, salads, chili and stir-fry dishes
Submit. Nopal cactus, also called prickly pear, is a familiar sight on roadsides and fields across much of the United States. This family of pad-forming cacti has been used in many ways by different cultures since ancient times. 
Prickly pear cactus (Opuntia ficus-indica), is an edible cactus plant that grows in the arid and semi-arid regions of the world. While doctors of traditional medicine hesitate to call prickly pear cactus a superfood, they believe that it can supplement a healthy diet. The high-fiber cactus is rich in antioxidants and carotenoids. Practically the entire plant is edible and nutritious, from the flowers and fruits to the stems and leaves.
Posted on: June 18, 2005. I would like to know what health benefits do cactus plants have for the human body. Cacti belong to a large family of plants, the Cactaceae. Relatively little is known about the medicinal effects of cacti, but at least some are known to be medicinally active. 
Cactus leaf may help control blood sugar. Prickly pear cactus, a member of the genus Opuntia, also known as nopal cactus, grows in warm, arid parts of the world. It produces leaves -- actually flattened stems known as pads -- between four to 16 inches long. Prickly pear offers a variety of practical benefits. 
[1]Cactus pads contain beta carotene, iron, some B vitamins, and are good sources of both vitamin C and calcium. [1]Cactus leaves (edible cactus or nopales) and the prickly pearAs part of the cactus plant, the prickly pear is a fruit that is 2 to 4 inches long and shaped like an avocado. [1]Edible cactus is characterized by its fleshy oval leaves (typically called pads or paddles) of the nopal (prickly pear) cactus. [1] With a soft but crunchy texture that also becomes a bit sticky (not unlike okra) when cooked, edible cactus tastes similar to a slightly tart green bean, asparagus, or green pepper.
CACTUSIntroductionA cactus (plural cacti or cactuses) is any member of the succulent plant family Cactaceae. They are often used as ornamental plants, but some are also crop plants.Edible cactus is also known as nopales, nopalitos or cactus pads. This vegetable is popular in Mexico and other Central American countries, parts of Europe, the Middle East, India, North Africa and Australia. [1]Edible cactus is characterized by its fleshy oval leaves (typically called pads or paddles) of the nopal (prickly pear) cactus. [1] With a soft but crunchy texture that also becomes a bit sticky (not unlike okra) when cooked, edible cactus tastes similar to a slightly tart green bean, asparagus, or green pepper.
A cactus (plural: cacti, cactuses, or cactus) is a member of the plant family Cactaceae within the order Caryophyllales. The word cactus derives, through Latin, from the Ancient Greek κάκτος, kaktos, a name originally used by Theophrastus for a spiny plant whose identity is not certain. 
Cactus is a modified evergreen plant that grows easily under semi-arid and desert climates. Cactus leaves are actually flat, oval, and pad-shape stems but misinterpreted as leaves. On the cactus plant, its segmented stems stack one over the other in odd angles arising directly from the root. 