My husband, who is English, also loves it. It's the spices in the haggis that make the taste. It's hard to describe the taste but I would say it's like a peppery oatmeal. Source(s): Scottish though-and through. It tastes kind of spicy, but it is usually ground lamb with oats and spices cooked in a sheep's stomach. I am American and live in Scotland, and have tried it once, not something you can eat a lot of. My husband's family who are Scottish say the vegetarian haggis is very good.
only kidding: haggis is minced offal of sheep (sometimes pork or beef) with oats, onions and pepper, boiled in the sheep's stomach and it's a great dish, tasts like minced sheep and if it's well made ... hmmmmm Just great with mashed neeps (turnip) and tatties. Hippie · 8 years ago. It tastes kind of spicy, but it is usually ground lamb with oats and spices cooked in a sheep's stomach. I am American and live in Scotland, and have tried it once, not something you can eat a lot of. My husband's family who are Scottish say the vegetarian haggis is very good.
Haggis is basically like an oaty, spicy mince and a great source of iron, fibre and carbohydrate with no artificial colours, flavourings or preservatives. Each haggis maker will have a slightly different recipe, but this is the way our Grandfather made it and we think it’s the best tasting recipe there is! Our vegetarian haggis is a combination of healthy fresh vegetables, mushrooms, pulses, oats, onions and seeds.
Haggis is a savoury pudding containing sheep's pluck (heart, liver and lungs); minced with onion, oatmeal, suet, spices, and salt, mixed with stock, traditionally encased in the animal's stomach though now often in an artificial casing instead. A traditional haggis recipe describes haggis as sheep's 'pluck' (heart, liver and lungs), minced with onion, oatmeal, suet, spices, and salt, mixed with stock, and traditionally encased in the animals stomach and boiled.
Best Answer: Haggis is the Chief of puddings and tastes sublime. Made of minced up lambs heart & lungs, with beef, oatmeal and onions. Seasoned to taste & boiled up inside a sheep's stomach. Served up with Tatties & neeps with a generous tot of malt whiskey sauce. best scran in the world. Tastes like heaven
You cannot escape haggis if you take a trip to Scotland. It’s everywhere. If you don’t know what haggis is, chances are you’ll actually like the taste of it. But find out it is likely to include, but not limited too, lamb tongue, liver, kidney, all cooked in a sheep stomach and .. well .. you might give the haggis crisps a pass. 