Full Definition of ARCHITECTURE. 1. : the art or science of building; specifically: the art or practice of designing and building structures and especially habitable ones. 2. 3. : architectural product or work. 4. : a method or style of building. 
Becoming an Architect. Architects are licensed professionals trained in the art and science of the design and construction of buildings and structures that primarily provide shelter.
Architects design buildings and other structures. In addition to considering the way these buildings and structures look, they also make sure they are functional, safe, economical and suit the needs of the people who use them. 
Definition: An architect is a licensed professional who organizes space. Architects design houses, office buildings, skyscrapers, landscapes, ships, and even entire cities. The services of a licensed architect depend on the type of project; fees may range from 10% to 15% of the total construction costs. An information architect is a person who plans the flow of information on Web pages. This use of the word architect is not related to building design or what is known as the built environment. Also Known As: Architects often design buildings, but a Building Designer is not usually a licensed architect
The median annual wage for architects was $73,090 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $44,600, and the top 10 percent earned more than $118,230. Architects spend much of their time in offices, where they meet with clients, and consult with engineers and other architects. They also visit construction sites to review the progress of projects.
The terms architect and architecture are also used in the disciplines of landscape architecture, naval architecture and often information technology (for example a network architect or software architect). Licensed architect, or non-registered graduate with more than 10 years of experience; has a design or technical focus and is responsible for significant project activities.
The systems architect is a professional figure in ICT. Systems architects define the architecture of a computerized system (i.e., a system composed of software and hardware) in order to fulfill certain requirements. Because of the extensive experience required for this, the Systems Architect is typically a very senior technician with substantial, but general, knowledge of hardware, software, and similar systems.
An architect is a person who plans, designs, and oversees the construction of buildings. To practice architecture means to provide services in connection with the design and construction of buildings and the space within the site surrounding the buildings, that have as their principal purpose human occupancy or use. Licensed architect, or non-registered graduate with more than 10 years of experience; has a design or technical focus and is responsible for significant project activities.
Education. Earning a professional degree in architecture is the typical path to becoming an architect in all states. Most architects earn their professional degree through a 5-year Bachelor of Architecture degree program, intended for students with no previous architectural training. Architects spend much of their time in offices, where they meet with clients, and consult with engineers and other architects. They also visit construction sites to review the progress of projects.