So if you are looking to replace or invest in a new HVAC system for your Oklahoma home or business, Air Comfort Solutions is the place to call. Every one of our technicians take a personal responsibility in making sure that your heating and air conditioning repair or new equipment installation exceeds your expectations. Make the winning call and contact us today if you need a heating and air company for central air conditioning and heating service work anywhere in the Oklahoma City or Tulsa metro areas.
Payne Air Conditioning & Heating Inc. With more than 77 years in the heating and cooling business, Payne Air Conditioning & Heating, Inc. is dedicated to providing the best possible service for you and your family. 
LENNOX: Founded in 1895, parent company Lennox International. LUXAIRE: Founded in 1939 by C. A. Olsen, purchased by Westinghouse in 1955, was purchased by York in 1981. MAGIC CHEF: In 1986, Magic Chef was acquired by the Maytag Co. Air conditioning division was sold to Lennox in 1988 and renamed Armstrong Air. See Johnson. Additions and corrections welcome! AAON: Started as John Zink in 1928, purchased by Sunbeam then Allegheny International. In 1988 AAON was formed to by the HVAC products company from Allegheny. AMANA: Amana Refrigeration started in 1934 in the Amana Colonies IA.
Willis Carrier is credited with inventing modern air conditioning in 1902. In 1915 Carrier, along with six other engineers, pooled together $32,600 to form the Carrier Engineering Corporation. In 1920 they purchased their first plant in Newark, New Jersey. The corporation bearing his name succeeded in marketing its air conditioner to the residential market in the 1950s, which led to formerly sparsely populated areas such as the American Southwest becoming home to sprawling suburbs. Carrier is the largest air conditioning producer in the world.
We take pride in our workmanship and in all of our services from routine maintenance to complex installation or repair problems. Make the winning call and contact us today if you need a heating and air company for central air conditioning and heating service work anywhere in the Oklahoma City or Tulsa metro areas. We proudly provide emergency air conditioning and heating service 7 days a week. Our Service
Weathermaker to the World. Despite the Great Depression, Carrier Corporation never stopped investing in the art and science of air conditioning leading the industry in railroad and marine applications, and pioneering the creation of efficient systems for business and home. The Launch of Carrier Air Conditioning Company. In the opening decades of the 20th century, Willis Carrier established Carrier Air Conditioning of America as the worldwide leader, advancing the science and application of air conditioning across multiple industries around the globe.
The company also sells a line of furnace filters. Carrier, headquartered in Farmington, CT, owns International Comfort Products and Bryant Heating and Cooling and is itself owned by United Technologies Corporation (UTC). The premier 80% AFUE furnace is the Infinity 80. Carrier's Infinity line of air conditioners is able to achieve a SEER rating of up to 21, although the company offers a full range of units. The manufacturer also offers a full range of boilers within its Performance and Comfort series.
HVAC products became Tappan Air Conditioning division in 1972. American Standard purchased the Trane Company in 1984, American Standard name revived in 1988. In 2007 all but HVAC sold off, corporate name changed to Trane. Trane was them purchased by Ingersoll Rand. Additions and corrections welcome! AAON: Started as John Zink in 1928, purchased by Sunbeam then Allegheny International. In 1988 AAON was formed to by the HVAC products company from Allegheny. AMANA: Amana Refrigeration started in 1934 in the Amana Colonies IA.
Carrier Corporation was acquired by United Technologies Corporation (UTC) in July 1979. Prior to the acquisition by UTC, Carrier Corporation was known as the Carrier Air Conditioning Company. International Comfort Products (ICP), headquartered in Lewisburg, Tennessee, was acquired by Carrier in 1999. The corporation bearing his name succeeded in marketing its air conditioner to the residential market in the 1950s, which led to formerly sparsely populated areas such as the American Southwest becoming home to sprawling suburbs. Carrier is the largest air conditioning producer in the world.