If you are thinking of becoming a professional football (soccer) player, read this: 5 steps (Part 2) on player’s journey to the football’s pro ranks. Following the 1st part; here’s the list of other 5 essentials (steps: 6-10) a player needs to take on his journey to become a professional football (soccer) player. 
If you can't get into the National Football League (NFL) or United Football League (UFL) immediately, then it's important to try to keep playing in another one, like the Canadian Football League (CFL) or Arena Football League (AFL); or a semiprofessional league. The best advice i can give you kids here is don't give up, push yourself to the limits and remember the important of analytic aptitude. To become a player at the highest level, you have to watch hundreds of hours of play and have the ability to react and deal with a myriad of situations. Good luck to you all.
Step 1: Have a Burning Motivation. If you want to become a professional soccer player for the money or fame, then stick to playing for fun. You need to have the sort of drive and passion where playing at a top level matters more to you than getting paid top money. I’ve learnt a huge amount about what it takes, so if you are thinking about becoming a professional footballer, read this! Here’s Part 1 with first 5 steps you need to take. (Learn about other 5 steps in Part 2).
Unlike major professional sports such as baseball and ice hockey, which draft and sign players from high school, football players must play college football for at least three seasons or be out of high school for at least three years before being eligible to play in the NFL. In the world of professional football, a prospective player's education will not help him make a team or have a long career, but to be eligible to sign an NFL contract, you must meet certain collegiate regulations.
Answer Study the rules of the game and make sure you do a good job at playing football if you want to have enough money to pay your bills. Not every pro football player is a Ronaldo, Ronaldinho, Zidane, Roberto Carlos, Maradona, Cafu, Kaka, Dida, Robinho, or Pele. You just need to be naturally good and work hard at your game Play for a sunday team and depending on how old you are scouts may come to some of your games. If they like what they see they will ask you to do a trial for the club they're employed by. My tip is work hard and train every day for AT LEAST 2 HOURS A DAY.
Soccer T-Shirts-http://www.the-soccer-essentials.spre... How to become a professional football player is from The Soccer Essentials Soccer training program designed to help you improve your Soccer skills, better your physical Soccer fitness, and become an all around better Soccer player.
Degrees. Unlike most other careers, becoming a professional football player is not dependent on the degree you pursue during college. Players who attend college on athletic scholarships with the hope of eventually making it to the NFL are occasionally known for taking light course loads. In the world of professional football, a prospective player's education will not help him make a team or have a long career, but to be eligible to sign an NFL contract, you must meet certain collegiate regulations.
Football (or soccer as it is known Canada, the United States, and Australia) is one of the most popular sports in the world. People love watching professional athletes kick the ball around. If you want to become a professional player, you need to have a love affair with the ball. This means constantly playing soccer or kicking the ball around by yourself. This passion and drive to play is the most important thing to become a professional. Understand what else it takes and expect challenges along the way. Devote yourself to soccer. It is this love for the game that will drive you to become a professional soccer player. Passion will help you push through the negative and challenging moments. Professional soccer must be something that you want to do. Don't do it because it's expected of you, or because it's someone else's dream