These policies make you liable for 1 to 5 percent of your home’s insured value (not a percent of the amount of the claim) before the insurance company pays. So, if you have a 2 percent deductible and your home’s insured value is $250,000, you’re on the hook for $5,000. 
Many people think jewelry insurance is very expensive and that it only covers for theft. For these and other reasons, some folks don’t carry any insurance on their jewelry when it’s really in their best interest to do so. The cost of insurance for jewelry is actually pretty reasonable in most areas of the USA. Here in Riverside, the rate of 1.5 %. The best jewelry insurance is replacement coverage for all risks, which include sudden and accidental damage, lost jewelry, theft, and fire. Most policies offer a reduction in the premium if you choose a deductible, such as a 15% reduction for a $500 deductible.
Average Cost: The yearly cost to insure your ring is $1 to $2 for every $100 that it would cost to replace. In plain English, this means that if your ring would cost $9,000 to replace, you might expect to pay between $90 and $180 per year to insure it—or slightly more in cities where the risk of theft is higher. Whether your wedding and engagement rings cost $500 or $50,000, an insurance policy is a way of honoring not just their financial value but what they represent. The sentiment behind your rings is priceless, but the rings themselves can be replaced—if they're insured—in the event that something happens to them.
Private Jewelry Insurance. As a general rule, you can expect to pay between $1 and $2 for every $100 worth of jewelry you want insured. So a $10,000 engagement ring would cost between $100 and $200 per year. These prices change significantly based on location (in Washington, DC, for example, it would cost $105 per year to insure a ring of that price, but in Los Angeles, the same ring would cost $200 per year to insure). It's important to review the insurance policy before buying because not everything will be covered.
Average business insurance costs for E & O coverage for small firms is typically in the range of $1,000 to $3,000 annually per million dollars of coverage. There are many ways to package policies, get discounts, and reduce your business insurance costs. 
It’s clear that jewelry insurance is relatively inexpensive— at a cost of 1% per year, you’d have to carry the insurance for more than 50 years before the cost versus the benefit would begin to be questionable. Here in Riverside, the rate of 1.5 %. The best jewelry insurance is replacement coverage for all risks, which include sudden and accidental damage, lost jewelry, theft, and fire. Most policies offer a reduction in the premium if you choose a deductible, such as a 15% reduction for a $500 deductible.
Who Needs Ring Insurance Most: Any couple with jewelry that has pricey material or sentimental value. Whether your wedding and engagement rings cost $500 or $50,000, an insurance policy is a way of honoring not just their financial value but what they represent. The sentiment behind your rings is priceless, but the rings themselves can be replaced—if they're insured—in the event that something happens to them.
Homeowner insurance usually limits jewelry coverage to relatively small amounts, typically $1000 or $2000, and the homeowner deductible applies. The important thing about a rider is to make sure you understand the cost and terms of the coverage. Here in Riverside, the rate of 1.5 %. The best jewelry insurance is replacement coverage for all risks, which include sudden and accidental damage, lost jewelry, theft, and fire. Most policies offer a reduction in the premium if you choose a deductible, such as a 15% reduction for a $500 deductible.
Premiums vary depending on where the insured person resides. The current price for replacement insurance thru one typical insurer for single items up to $50,000 in value ranged from a low of .85% for the state of Wisconsin to a high of 3.9% for Brooklyn. Most states were around 1 %. Here in Riverside, the rate of 1.5 %. The best jewelry insurance is replacement coverage for all risks, which include sudden and accidental damage, lost jewelry, theft, and fire. Most policies offer a reduction in the premium if you choose a deductible, such as a 15% reduction for a $500 deductible.