By University Alliance. Becoming a business analyst means launching a career of potential opportunity on the leading edge of innovation. Business analyst certification and training can provide a competitive advantage, along with the skills and knowledge you’ll need to land a business analyst job. To distinguish yourself and increase your chances of success, earning your business analyst certification is an important step. Business analysts tend to start out with strong business and IT skills. In addition, an understanding of a particular industry or vertical market can be an advantage.
Background of Financial Analysts If you are still an undergraduate student who is considering a career as a financial analyst, it is best to take courses in business, economics, accounting and math. The financial services industry is competitive, and it can be tough to break into the analyst field, but there are some preparations you can make to position yourself for this career. If you're interested in a career as a financial analyst, read on to find out what you can do to groom yourself for the job.
In order to become effective in a career as an IT analyst, you need to posses a certain set of skills and personality traits. These skills and traits will allow you to perform your job duties with competence, and allow you successful negotiate your way through the challenges of this career. If you want to become an information technology (IT) analyst, you first need to determine if this career path is well suited to your skills, interests, working style and future career ambitions. If the following description sounds like you, then you’re probably well suited for a career as an IT analyst:
For example, the salary for a position with the CIA as an intelligence analyst ranges from $50,864 to $99, 296 per year. Intelligence analysts rarely work in the field and spend most of their time in an office or digital laboratory, sifting through and deciphering information pertinent to law enforcement cases. Research the requirements to become an intelligence analyst. Learn about the job description and duties, and read the step-by-step process to start a career in intelligence analysis.
While your choice will depend a great deal on the skills you have and the work environment you prefer, chances are no matter what decision you make, there will be a positive job outlook. One thriving IT-career is that of a computer systems analyst, which is relied upon heavily in the business world. Becoming a computer systems analyst does not require any particular certification, although you will need to earn a bachelor's or master's degree in information technology. Because this career is so intertwined with business, taking some courses related to the field may also be helpful.
In the financial services industry, one of the most coveted careers is that of the financial analyst. Financial analysts can work in both junior and senior capacities within a firm and it is a niche that often leads to other career opportunities. The financial services industry is competitive, and it can be tough to break into the analyst field, but there are some preparations you can make to position yourself for this career. If you're interested in a career as a financial analyst, read on to find out what you can do to groom yourself for the job.
Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. An intelligence analyst is expected to have earned at least a bachelor's degree from an accredited university. Degrees in intelligence studies, political science, national security and international studies are all beneficial to aspiring analysts. Research the requirements to become an intelligence analyst. Learn about the job description and duties, and read the step-by-step process to start a career in intelligence analysis.
Education Needed to Become an IT Analyst. In order to become an IT analyst, you typically need a bachelor’s degree in a field such as information technology, computer science, computer engineering, software engineering, or another closely related field. If you want to become an information technology (IT) analyst, you first need to determine if this career path is well suited to your skills, interests, working style and future career ambitions. If the following description sounds like you, then you’re probably well suited for a career as an IT analyst:
That’s why I recommend learning just enough to determine if business analysis is the right career choice for you. Check out my 42 Reasons to Start a Business Analyst Career and The First 5 Signs that Business Analysis is the Career Choice for You for some clarity on whether or not you’ve found the right fit. Even if these checklists confirm you are on the right track, you might still not be 100% sure. http://www.bridging-the-gap.com/help-a-ba-how-do-become-a-ba-if-i-dont-have-an-it-background/. There are many types of BA roles. You might leverage your expertise in HR to get started, as domain experience can often help new BAs get started in the profession.