BREAKING DOWN 'Bequest'. If estate taxes are a concern, individuals may opt to bequest assets to heirs indirectly through a gift in trust. Charitable gifts after death can also reduce estate taxes. When a bequest is left to a charity, it may be called a legacy gift. Such bequests can be important sources of fundraising for nonprofit organizations. When the bequest is intended for a specific purpose, it is called an endowment. Bequests to charity can be made directly, or indirectly through charitable trusts
A general bequest is a gift of money or other property that can be paid or taken from the decedent's general assets and not from a specific fund designated by the terms of the will. There is, however, a distinction between them. A bequest is applied, more properly, to a gift by will of a legacy, that is, of personal property; devise is properly a gift by testament of real property. Vide Devise. 1  Facebook.
DEFINITION of 'Bequest'. The act of giving personal property or money such as stocks, bonds, jewelry and cash left to an individual or organization through the provisions of a will or estate plan. Bequests can be made to family, friends, institutions or charities. Charitable gifts after death can also reduce estate taxes. When a bequest is left to a charity, it may be called a legacy gift. Such bequests can be important sources of fundraising for nonprofit organizations. When the bequest is intended for a specific purpose, it is called an endowment.
A bequest is the act of giving property by will. Strictly, bequest is used of personal property, and devise of real property. In legal terminology, bequeath is a verb form meaning to make a bequest. One reason that the recipient of a bequest is usually not taxed on the bequest is because the donor may be taxed on it. Donors of bequests may be taxed through other mechanisms such as federal wealth transfer taxes.
bequest - (law) a gift of personal property by will. legacy. law, jurisprudence-the collection of rules imposed by authority; civilization presupposes respect for the law; the great problem for jurisprudence to allow freedom while enforcing order. 
A demonstrative bequest is a gift of money that must be paid from a particular source, such as a designated bank account or the sale of stock in a designated corporation. There is, however, a distinction between them. A bequest is applied, more properly, to a gift by will of a legacy, that is, of personal property; devise is properly a gift by testament of real property. Vide Devise. 1  Facebook.
A gift by will of personal property; a legacy. A specific bequest is one whereby the testator gives to the legatee all his property of a certain class or kind; as all his pure personalty. A residuary bequest is a gift of all the remainder of the testator's personal estate, after payment of debts and legacies, etc. An executory bequest is the bequest of a future, deferred, or contingent interest in personalty. A conditional bequest is one the taking effect or continuing of which depends upon the happening or non-occurrence of a particular event.
bequest. n. the gift of personal property under the terms of a will. Bequests are not always outright, but may be conditional upon the happening or non-happening of an event (such as marriage), or executory in which the gift is contingent upon a future event. There is, however, a distinction between them. A bequest is applied, more properly, to a gift by will of a legacy, that is, of personal property; devise is properly a gift by testament of real property. Vide Devise. 1  Facebook.