Avonex is approved for the treatment of multiple sclerosis in people with relapsing forms of the disease. Multiple sclerosis research has shown that during a multiple sclerosis attack, inflammation occurs in random areas of the white matter of the central nervous system. Avonex belongs to a group of medications known as interferons. Multiple sclerosis is a central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) disease and is the leading cause of disability among young adults.
 skin rash, hives, sores in your mouth, or your skin blisters and peels. AVONEX is a form of a protein called beta interferon that occurs naturally in the body. AVONEX is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). Read this Medication Guide before you start using AVONEX, and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment.
(interferon beta-1a) Injection for intramuscular use. Read this Medication Guide before you start using AVONEX, and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment.
(Redirected from Avonex). Interferon beta 1a (also interferon beta 1-alpha) is a cytokine in the interferon family used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS). It is produced by mammalian cells, while interferon beta 1b is produced in modified E. coli. Interferons are not a cure for MS (there is no cure); the claim is that interferons may slow the progress of the disease if started early and continued for the duration of the disease. Interferon beta 1a is sold under the trade names Avonex (Biogen) and Rebif (Merck Serono), (Pfizer); CinnoVex (CinnaGen) is biosimilar.
Avonex® is a brand name for the drug interferon beta-1a, used to treat relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). It is taken as an intramuscular injection and is available in pre-filled syringes. There is no generic for Avonex® currently available. 
Avonex ® (interferon beta-1a) is a prescription medication approved for treating multiple sclerosis (also known as MS, for short). It is given as weekly intramuscular injections (injections into a muscle). Avonex belongs to a group of medications known as interferons. Multiple sclerosis is a central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) disease and is the leading cause of disability among young adults.
AVONEX is a form of a protein called beta interferon that occurs naturally in the body. AVONEX is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). This includes people who have had their first symptoms of multiple sclerosis and have an MRI consistent with multiple sclerosis. Read this Medication Guide before you start using AVONEX, and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment.
Avonex is the brand name of the injectable medicine interferon beta-1a, which is used to treat symptoms of relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS). Interferon beta-1a is also manufactured under the brand name Rebif. MS is a neurological condition where the immune system attacks the protective covering of nerves. Relapsing MS occurs when symptoms come and go. Avonex is in a class of drugs known as immunomodulators, which work by acting on the immune system.
Authorisation details. Avonex is a powder and solvent in a vial, which are made up into a solution for injection, and a solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe. Each vial and syringe contains 30 micrograms (6 million international units or ‘MIU’) of the active substance, interferon beta-1a. 