Keep chickens on a budget with good kitchen scraps and homemade mash recipes. Chickens and baby chickens will eat just about anything so you need to know that what you are feeding them is good for them, and that they are getting everything in their diet necessary to keep healthy and laying if you keep laying hens. I can guarantee that by feeding your chickens ground cayenne pepper-not the flakes, will result in more eggs. 1 - 2 teaspoons in the chicken mash on alternate days for 12 chickens is all you need to get those chickens laying again.
Laying mash is chicken feed that's formulated to meet the nutritional needs of laying hens, whose bodies require a lot of protein and energy to produce eggs. Laying mash contains ground grains, proteins such as fish and bone meal, and legumes such as alfalfa. Ideally, a laying hen should eat a laying mash or other formulated diet that contains about 15 percent to 17 percent protein, a calcium supplement and a small amount of greens, vegetables, fruit and kitchen scraps. The greens, scraps and other food items should not make up more than 20 percent of the total diet.
The formulation of layers mash/crumble is designed to meet the nutritional needs of adult chickens. Chick crumb is designed to meet the needs of very young chicks. So yes, you need to feed your 21 week old chickens layers mash/crumb. Layers pellets are the same thing, just in a different format. Chick starter is not laying mash but it's chick mash, laying mash has more calcium than chick mash. If it says chick starter, then you can feed it to your chicks. Yes, laying age hens need layer feeds and that will be mash~in the form of mash(meal), crumbles or pelleted
Started career as professional chef then a district sales manager for a wine & spirits company. Retired in 2005, breeding Araucana chickens. Laying Mash is a specially formulated chicken feed, higher in protein and various minerals including calcium suited to the nutritional needs of hens producing eggs. The mash is ground finer than normal feed and can be fed dry or moist. It also comes in pellet form. Regular scratch feed is a mix of grains with small amounts of protein that is suited to the everyday use for all chickens. 
Most small backyard chicken raisers like to keep things as simple as possible when feeding chickens and consequently provide their laying hens the same feed during the full laying period. This is customarily accomplished with an all-mash diet that offers about 16% to 17% protein levels. Mash is made from finely crushed grains and is provided in two ways. It is either combined to provide 100% of the chicken's day by day nutrient requirements or fed along with other grains. Big commercial chicken growers know that protein is expensive so they watch protein amounts meticulously when feeding chickens. They begin by supplying 18% protein for the initial 4 months of their laying period and then lessen it to 16% at 4 months.
laying mash is just a term for layer crumbles. your chick starter is a crumble also so therefore a mash but is not formulated for laying hens. Some ppl use the term laying mash interchangably for any crumble feed. At least in my experience in my part of the country. Chick starter is not laying mash but it's chick mash, laying mash has more calcium than chick mash. If it says chick starter, then you can feed it to your chicks. Yes, laying age hens need layer feeds and that will be mash~in the form of mash(meal), crumbles or pelleted
Layer Mash Chicken Feed Usually around 18 weeks of age, your young pullets will lay their first eggs and become laying hens. This Layer Mash is an excellent feed that's packed with calcium and other nutrients to promote regular egg production and healthy laying hens. It's important that you switch your young pullets to a diet that's less protein rich that what they may have been eating as chicks or developing hens.
When your laying chickens or ducks become almost fully mature and begin to lay eggs, it is best to use a less protein packed organic poultry feed. Our layer mash feed contains a mixture of grains and nutrients with 16% protein concentration. All of our layer mash feed for egg laying chicken breeds is non-medicated and USDA certified organic. Your chicken feed ships within 3-5 days of your purchase