Expect to pay $2 to $7 per square foot for these materials, including installation costs. In the middle of the price range is porcelain and ceramic tiles. Both are durable and suitable for wet environments, and they run anywhere from $5 to $10 per square foot when you include the cost of installation.
Typical Costs. The cost for installation of a hardwood floor is usually quoted on a per-square-foot basis. The total cost of a given floor can vary greatly depending on the cost of the flooring material you choose and your location, but you can expect the range to be between $5 and $10 per square foot.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Hardwood Floor Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Hardwood Floor ranges between $8.56 - $11.51 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Wood Floor! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Hardwood Flooring Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Wood Floor ranges between $8.21 - $11.04 per square foot* .
1 For the living room project this translates to a total cost of $2063. 2  If this installation were a DIY project, it is safe to assume a $4 to $6 price per square foot, or $1250 for the materials. 3  Additional materials costs might include an insulating underlay, glue or adhesive, and any recommended cleansers or sealants.
Vinyl is considered to be the most affordable and easiest to install out of flooring options. Vinyl sheets range from 75 cents to $4 a square foot and vinyl tiles typically cost $1 to $8 per square foot, both which are ideal for DIY-installation. Like laminate, vinyl flooring can imitate the look of high-end flooring like hardwood or tile.