Celtic Meaning: The name Ronan is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Ronan is: Oath. American Meaning: The name Ronan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ronan is: Oath. Irish Meaning: The name Ronan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Ronan is: Little seal. 
Meaning of Ronan. Irish name. In Irish, the name Ronan means-little seal. Other origins for the name Ronan include-Irish, Celtic.The name Ronan is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Irish Name Meaning-little seal. Origin-Ireland.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Ronan is a baby boy name. The name Ronan comes from the Celtic origin. In Celtic The meaning of the name Ronan is: Little seal. An old Irish name originally spelled Ronan. rónán
[ 2 syll. ro-nan, ron-an ] The baby boy name Ronan is also used as a girl name, but the use for boys is much more common. Its pronunciation is R OW NihN †. Ronan is used chiefly in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic. The name's meaning is little seal. The name is from the Gaelic Ronan, rónán a nickname derived as a diminutive of The Irish 'gaelic'. Ron rón the name was borne by a 5th century irish saint who worked as a Missionary in Cornwall. and brittany
Ronan. Meaning of the Irish name Ronan. Listen and learn how to pronounce Ronan so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. 
Look up ronan rónán In, wiktionary the free. Dictionary (ronan Rónán) anglicized ronan Is an irish language male given name meaning (Little seal ron, rón - meaning seal and an án). Being a diminutive suffix: It may refer to legend tells of a seal who is warned never to stray too. close to the land Look up ronan rónán In, wiktionary the free. Dictionary (ronan Rónán) anglicized ronan Is an irish language male given name meaning (Little seal ron, rón - meaning seal and an án). being a diminutive suffix
Origin of the name Ronan: Very old Irish name derived from the diminutive form of ron (rón a): seal, hence little .. Seal the name was borne by twelve saints as well as by an ancient king Of leinster who was deceived into killing his-first born. Son From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman Origin of the name Ronan: Very old Irish name derived from the diminutive form of ron (rón a): seal, hence little .. Seal the name was borne by twelve saints as well as by an ancient king Of leinster who was deceived into killing his-first born. son
0 5. The meaning of Ronan is  Little seal . Its origin is  Gaelic/Celtic . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 434th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names. 