Respiration is Gas Exchange. While pulmonary ventilation is the process by which oxygen enters and carbon dioxide exits the alveoli, respiration is the process by which oxygen and carbon dioxide diffuse in and out of the blood. Respiration is also referred to as gas exchange, and it occurs in two areas of the body. The partial pressure of a gas is directly proportional to both the concentration of the gas and pressure. External respiration occurs in the lungs where oxygen diffuses into the blood and carbon dioxide diffuses into the alveolar air.
Gas exchange in the lungs is referred to as external respiration as one side of the respiratory membrane-that is, the alveolar air-is actually outside of the body. As blood flows through the pulmonary capillaries, oxygen diffuses into the blood and carbon dioxide diffuses into the alveolar gas. The partial pressure of a gas is directly proportional to both the concentration of the gas and pressure. External respiration occurs in the lungs where oxygen diffuses into the blood and carbon dioxide diffuses into the alveolar air.
external respiration. noun. : exchange of gases between the external environment and a distributing system of the animal body (as the lungs of higher vertebrates or the tracheal tubes of insects) or between the alveoli of the lungs and the blood—compare internal respiration. Definition of EXTERNAL RESPIRATION. : exchange of gases between the external environment and a distributing system of the animal body (as the lungs of higher vertebrates or the tracheal tubes of insects) or between the alveoli of the lungs and the blood — compare internal respiration. ADVERTISEMENT. noun.
This page is about external respiration, which is the processes by which external air is drawn. the body in order to supply the lungs with oxygen, and (used) air is expelled. the lungs in order to remove carbon dioxide from to body. (The processes of internal respiration concern the exchange of gases in the lungs with those in the tissues and is described on the next page). Inspiration (= inhalation). Concentration of Gases. Expiration (= exhalation). 1. Intercostal muscles contract.
External respiration is the process of taking oxygen into and expelling carbon dioxide from the body. External respiration is essential for life as it supplies oxygen to extract energy from food via internal or cellular respiration. Additionally, it removes carbon dioxide, which is a waste product of respiration. 
This process provides oxygen into the cells from the blood and removes carbon dioxide from the cells. External respiration is the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between the blood and fresh air and this occurs in between the alveoli of the lungs and the capillaries of the pulmonary circulatory system. External respiration is important, mainly to oxygenate the blood and to remove carbon dioxide from the blood. 
There is a big difference between external and internal respiration. External respiration is basically the transfer of gas between respiratory organs such as lungs and the outer environment. It takes place prior to internal respiration. Internal respiration is the transfer of gas between the blood and cells. External respiration also known as breathing refers to a process of inhaling oxygen from the air into the lungs and expelling carbon dioxide from the lungs to the air. Exchange of gases both in and out of the blood occurs simultaneously. 
External respiration is the exchange if oxygen and carbon dioxide between the blood and air in the lungs, and internal resparation is the exchange of gases between blood cells of the body. External respiration is the exchange of gases between the alveoli and lung capillaries. Pulmonary ventilation is the movement of air into and out of the lungs (breathing). External respiration is the exchange of O2 (loading) and CO2 (unloading) between blood and alveoli (air sacs). Transport of respiratory gases between lungs and tissues. Internal respiration is gas exchange between blood and tissue cell