In Slavic myths, Baba Yaga is the wild woman or dark lady of magic and in Russian folklore there are many stories about her. These stories may come from people who lived in the forests of northern Russia and Finland many years ago. They had stone statues named Yaga. Most of those who go in never leave, as Baba Yaga washes them, feeds them and then sits them on a giant spatula, before putting them in her oven. In many stories, the fate of those entering her hut is in their own hands. A guest may, or may not, fit into the oven, depending on how they sit on the spatula.
Yaga. A social media app/platform like snapchat and groupme combined, but instead of secretly having to screenshot nudes and videos, they stay there forever. It literally doesn't get any better. Using Yaga has made it so much easier to to collect a video bank of all the greatest moments in life, like nudies
Variations of the name Baba Yaga are found in the languages of the Eastern Slavic peoples. The first element, baba, is transparently a babble word, meaning 'woman', or, specifically, 'old woman'. Ivan walks for some time before encountering a small hut identical to the first. This Baba Yaga makes the same comments and asks the same question as the first, and Ivan asks the same question.
Baba Yaga as depicted by Ivan Bilibin (1902). In Slavic folklore, Baba Yaga is a supernatural being (or one of a trio of sisters of the same name) who appears as a deformed and/or ferocious-looking woman. Ivan walks for some time before encountering a small hut identical to the first. This Baba Yaga makes the same comments and asks the same question as the first, and Ivan asks the same question.
Baba Yaga may sense and mention the Russian scent (russky dukh) of those that visit her. Her nose may stick into the ceiling. Particular emphasis may be placed by some narrators on the repulsiveness of her nose or other body parts. In some tales a trio of Baba Yagas appear as sisters, all sharing the same name. Ivan walks for some time before encountering a small hut identical to the first. This Baba Yaga makes the same comments and asks the same question as the first, and Ivan asks the same question.
Grandmother Witch. Baba Yaga is a famous witch of the East, well-known in Russia. She has spooked and scared little children across Eastern Europe for many centuries. The name of Baba Yaga is composed of two elements. Baba Yaga is a favorite subject of Russian films and cartoons. The film Vasilissa Prekrasnaya (the Beautiful) by Aleksandr Rou, featuring Baba Yaga, was the first feature with fantasy elements in the Soviet Union.
Baba Yaga lives in a hut deep in the forest. Her hut seems to have a personality of its own and can move about on its extra-large chicken legs. Usually the hut is either spinning around as it moves through the forest or stands at rest with its back to the visitor. The windows of the hut seem to serve as eyes. In some stories she has two older sisters, who are also called Baba Yaga, just to confuse you! Her nose is so long that it rattles against the ceiling of her hut when she snores, stretched out in all directions upon her ancient brick oven.
WELCOME TO YAGA'S PRESENTS. Yaga's Presents, the home of Galveston Island's Yaga's Cafe, , Beerfoot Beach Bar, Float Pool & Patio Bar and Tsunami Exotic Tequila Emporium! Food and fun on Galveston Island can be found on yagaspresents.com, your island resource for great dining, delicious beverages, live music and special events. 
Baba Yaga by Ivan Bilibin Click on image for larger version In Russian folklore there are many stories of Baba Yaga, the fearsome witch with iron teeth. She is also known as Baba Yaga Boney Legs, because, in spite of a ferocious appetite, she is as thin as a skeleton. In Russian that's: 'Baba Yaga Kostianaya Noga'. In some stories she has two older sisters, who are also called Baba Yaga, just to confuse you! Her nose is so long that it rattles against the ceiling of her hut when she snores, stretched out in all directions upon her ancient brick oven.