Secondary biofuels result from processing of biomass and include liquid biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel that can be used in vehicles and industrial processes. Bioenergy is mainly used in homes (80%), to a lesser extent in industry (18%), while liquid biofuels for transport still play a limited role (2%). Currently used liquid biofuels, which include ethanol produced from crops containing sugar and starch and biodiesel from oilseeds, are referred to as first-generation biofuels. These fuels only use a portion of the energy potentially available in the biomass.
1 Introduce students to the different classes of biofuels: 2  First-generation biofuels are made from food crops (seeds or grains) or animal feedstocks. 3  Crops such as corn, soy, palm, and sugarcane have sugars, starches, and oils that can be transformed into biofuels. 4  Examples: ethanol, biodiesel, biogas (e.g., methane). 1 First-generation biofuels are made from food crops (seeds or grains) or animal feedstocks. 2  Crops such as corn, soy, palm, and sugarcane have sugars, starches, and oils that can be transformed into biofuels. 3  Examples: ethanol, biodiesel, biogas (e.g., methane).
Bioethanol is an alcohol made by fermentation, mostly from carbohydrates produced in sugar or starch crops such as corn, sugarcane, or sweet sorghum. Cellulosic biomass, derived from non-food sources, such as trees and grasses, is also being developed as a feedstock for ethanol production. This biomass can be converted to convenient energy containing substances in three different ways: thermal conversion, chemical conversion, and biochemical conversion. This biomass conversion can result in fuel in solid, liquid, or gas form. This new biomass can also be used directly for biofuels.
More than $4 million in Recovery Act funding from the Biomass program is being used to enhance and accelerate GLBRC sustainability research, which focuses on the design of cellulosic cropping systems and the economic, climate-stabilizing, and biodiversity benefits they can provide. 
A biofuel is a fuel that is produced through contemporary biological processes, such as agriculture and anaerobic digestion, rather than a fuel produced by geological processes such as those involved in the formation of fossil fuels, such as coal and petroleum, from prehistoric biological matter. This biomass can be converted to convenient energy containing substances in three different ways: thermal conversion, chemical conversion, and biochemical conversion. This biomass conversion can result in fuel in solid, liquid, or gas form. This new biomass can also be used directly for biofuels.
In additon. biofuels may be marketed as good, renewable, sustainable or next generation, partly for promotional purposes. So achieving a widely accepted definition of advanced and/or sustainable biofuels is a challenge. Often the term is applied to biofuels produced from lignocellulosic (LC) or cellulosic biomass. Bio-oil can be used as a heating fuel or can be further converted to advanced biofuels. Torrefaction (heating at 200-300 °C in the absence of oxygen, at atmopsheric pressure) converts biomass to bio-coal, which can be more easily used for power generation than untreated biomass.
Biodiesel can be used as a fuel for vehicles in its pure form, but it is usually used as a diesel additive to reduce levels of particulates, carbon monoxide, and hydrocarbons from diesel-powered vehicles. Biodiesel is produced from oils or fats using transesterification and is the most common biofuel in Europe. This biomass can be converted to convenient energy containing substances in three different ways: thermal conversion, chemical conversion, and biochemical conversion. This biomass conversion can result in fuel in solid, liquid, or gas form. This new biomass can also be used directly for biofuels.
Brazil ’s production of ethanol fuel from sugarcane dates back to the 1970s, as a governmental response to the 1973 oil crisis. Brazil is considered the biofuel industry leader and the world's first sustainable biofuels economy. With sweet sorghum, only the stalks are used for biofuel production, while the grain is saved for food or livestock feed. It is not in high demand in the global food market, and thus has little impact on food prices and food security.