Viral conjunctivitis and bacterial conjunctivitis may affect one or both eyes. Viral conjunctivitis usually produces a watery discharge. Bacterial conjunctivitis often produces a thicker, yellow-green discharge. Both types can be associated with colds or symptoms of a respiratory infection, such as a sore throat.
The inflammation can be hyperacute, acute or chronic in presentation and infectious or noninfectious in origin. Conjunctivitis is the most common cause of red eye. Most frequently, conjunctivitis (and thus red eye) is caused by a bacterial or viral infection. Sexually transmitted diseases such as chlamydial infection and gonorrhea are less common causes of conjunctivitis. This type of conjunctivitis often develops in association with blepharitis, which is a common but often unrecognized inflammatory condition related to bacterial colonization of the eyelid margins. Some cases of chronic bacterial conjunctivitis are also associated with facial seborrhea.
Viral Conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with a virus. Viral conjunctivitis. 1  Can be caused by a number of different viruses, many of which may be associated with an upper respiratory tract infection, cold, or sore throat. The most common causes of conjunctivitis are viruses, bacteria, and allergens. But there are other causes, including chemicals, fungi, certain diseases, and contact lens wear (especially wearing lenses overnight).
Viral conjunctivitis is highly contagious. Most viruses that cause conjunctivitis are spread through hand-to-eye contact by hands or objects that are contaminated with the infectious virus. Hands can become contaminated by coming in contact with infectious tears, eye discharge, fecal matter, or respiratory discharges. 
Background. Inflammation of the bulbar and/or palpebral conjunctiva, or conjunctivitis, can be caused by allergies, viruses, or bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis is commonly caused by staphylococci, streptococci, chlamydial organism, and gonococci. Common causes of bacterial conjunctivitis, an inflammation of the bulbar and/or palpebral conjunctivas, include staphylococci, streptococci, gonococci, and Chlamydia. Complications are expected to develop only in cases caused by extremely pathogenic bacteria, such as C trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae.
The most common types of bacteria that cause bacterial conjunctivitis include Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Bacterial conjunctivitis usually produces a thick eye discharge or pus and can affect one or both eyes. All forms of conjunctivitis  including bacterial, viral, allergic and other types  involve inflammation of the transparent, mucous membrane (conjunctiva) covering the white part of the eye or sclera.
Other symptoms of pink eye depend on the type of conjunctivitis you have: 1  Viral conjunctivitis. 2  Watery, itchy eyes; sensitivity to light. 3  One or both eyes can be affected. 4  Highly contagious; can be spread by coughing and sneezing. 5  Bacterial conjunctivitis. 1 Viral conjunctivitis. 2  Caused by a virus, like the common cold. 3  This type of pink eye is very contagious, but usually will clear up on its own within several days without medical treatment. 4
Adenovirus is by far the most common cause of viral conjunctivitis, although the condition can also be caused by other viruses. Viral conjunctivitis often occurs in community epidemics, with the virus transmitted in schools, workplaces and physicians' offices. This type of conjunctivitis often develops in association with blepharitis, which is a common but often unrecognized inflammatory condition related to bacterial colonization of the eyelid margins. Some cases of chronic bacterial conjunctivitis are also associated with facial seborrhea.
Bacterial conjunctivitis is a common type of pink eye, caused by bacteria that infect the eye through various sources of contamination. The bacteria can be spread through contact with an infected individual, exposure to contaminated surfaces or through other means such as sinus or ear infections. All forms of conjunctivitis  including bacterial, viral, allergic and other types  involve inflammation of the transparent, mucous membrane (conjunctiva) covering the white part of the eye or sclera.