Yes bread is crumbly but this was crumbly in the sense that it didn't hold together right. I suspected that in my case it was either too much flour or insufficient kneading or both. Your link is just what I was looking for and you save me search time. I am mixing my bread dough in the dough cycle of my bread machine. I then punch it down, shape into loaves, and put in loaf pans to rise for about 40 minutes before baking at 350 degrees for 20 minutes.
I wish I knew what crumbly bread means. I'm going to guess that what's happening is that you're not kneading the dough enough. The earliest days for a newbie are filled with lots of mistakes. Make them, learn from them, and move on, I say! I am mixing my bread dough in the dough cycle of my bread machine. I then punch it down, shape into loaves, and put in loaf pans to rise for about 40 minutes before baking at 350 degrees for 20 minutes.
I use 4 cups white flour, 1 cup whole wheat flour, 2 1/2 cups water, 2 tsp yeast, and 2 tsp salt. (I'm writting this from memory...but I'm sure this is pretty close to the actual recipe I've been using). I am mixing my bread dough in the dough cycle of my bread machine. I then punch it down, shape into loaves, and put in loaf pans to rise for about 40 minutes before baking at 350 degrees for 20 minutes.
Watch your dough while it is rising. Allowing your dough to rise more than double its size on the first rising can lead to crumbly bread. Soften your whole grain flour before mixing. If you are making whole wheat bread, the gluten might be breaking where it encounters a piece of the whole grain. Soften the flour with hot water before mixing to cook the whole grains down so that they mix more easily and you may experience less crumbly loaves. Source(s): http://www.ehow.com/how_2294762_make-bre...
I add gluten and knead the bread for a longer length of time, which is supposed to help but it still crumbles. I add eggs, milk, yeast, brown sugar, oil, white flour, and Bulgar which has been soaked or else cooked and cooled. If you are making whole wheat bread, the gluten might be breaking where it encounters a piece of the whole grain. Soften the flour with hot water before mixing to cook the whole grains down so that they mix more easily and you may experience less crumbly loaves. Source(s): http://www.ehow.com/how_2294762_make-bre...
I have just started making my own bread and the first recipe I tried is one I found on line. Ing. are as follows: 1 package yeast, 1/2 c. lukewarm water, 3 1/4 c. whole wheat flour, 1 tsp. salt, 2 T. honey, 1/2 c. milk, scalded and cooled to lukewarm, 2 T. oil, 2 eggs. grainlady_ks. 1. Switch to white whole wheat flour and I think you'll find a whole different taste and will enjoy your hard work, compared to red wheat varieties (which most of the commercial whole wheat flours are milled from). Red wheat flour is more bitter than white wheat varieties. 2.
- Adding too much flour can also cause the crumb to crumble. Only add as much flour as it takes to make a nice soft dough. The amount listed in the recipe is just a good guess, so you may actually need more or less than that amount to get the correct hydration and feel of the dough. grainlady_ks. 1. Switch to white whole wheat flour and I think you'll find a whole different taste and will enjoy your hard work, compared to red wheat varieties (which most of the commercial whole wheat flours are milled from). Red wheat flour is more bitter than white wheat varieties. 2.
Binders, such as guar gum and xanthan gum, help as well, since they become the glue that holds your bread together. Your bread might also be too crumbly because your dough was too dry. Reducing the amount of flour can help the binding ingredients saturate your dough more. Gluten-free baking means working with very wet dough because the ingredients are compensating for the lack of gluten. 
Reduce the amount of flour in your bread recipe. Too much flour can affect the dough consistency and cause the finished loaf to be crumbly. Slowly reduce the amount of flour you mix in and use less flour when kneading. Knead your dough more thoroughly. If you are making whole wheat bread, the gluten might be breaking where it encounters a piece of the whole grain. Soften the flour with hot water before mixing to cook the whole grains down so that they mix more easily and you may experience less crumbly loaves. Source(s): http://www.ehow.com/how_2294762_make-bre...
I'll reprint it here as it was originally given to me. Mix together: 2 cups flour, 1.5 cups sugar, 1/2 c crisco, 1 tsp salt, 2/3 c milk. Stir in: 3 tsp baking powder, 2 eggs, 1/3 c milk, and 1 tsp vanilla. I use butter but have also tried it with crisco and both get very crumbly. 