Turkey lie on Asia and Europe. (It is an Eurasian country) Turkey has land both on Asia and Europe. Asian part is bigger. Europe and Asia The nation of Turkey spans two continents; the small area north of the Straits of the Bosporus is in Europe, but the larger area south of the Bosporus is Asia.
Islands located near a continent are generally considered, in a geographical sense, part of that continent. Greenland, for example, is politically part of Europe but belongs geographically to North America, as do the islands of the Caribbean and the western North Atlantic Ocean. There are some islands and island groups, however, that are not considered part of any continent, geographically speaking. Oceania is the collective name for the lands of the Pacific Ocean, including Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia. Oceania is a convenient way to name these areas, which, with the exception of Australia, are not part of any continent. But Oceania itself is not a
The vast majority of the  country is in Asia, with only a very small part being in Europe.     A link is provided to the Wikipedia article which has a description  and a map.   It's both on Europe and Asia continents   Turkey is a transcontinental country. It's in the Asian-European  boundary. (Located in Western Asia and Southeastern Europe.). Europe and Asia The nation of Turkey spans two continents; the small area north of the Straits of the Bosporus is in Europe, but the larger area south of the Bosporus is Asia.
By Matt Rosenberg. I often receive questions about on which continent one can find a certain place. Below are some of the most frequent questions. I define there to be seven continents - 1) Europe, 2) Australia, 3) Africa, 4) Antarctica, 5) North America, 6) Asia, and 7) South America. Those places which are not part of a continent can be included as part of a region of the world. On which continent is Panama? The border between Panama and Colombia is the border between North America and South America so Panama is in North America and Colombia is in
Geographically, Turkey, Kazakhtan and Georgia are in both Europe and Asia (though in each case the largest part of the country in is Asia). The others are in Asia. In football, the former Soviet Republics have inherited the European status of the old USSR, Turkey prefers to consider itself part of Europe, and Israel plays in the European competitions because so many of its Asian neighbours would refuse to play against it.
Turkey lie on Asia and Europe. (It is an Eurasian country) Turkey has land both on Asia and Europe. Asian part is bigger. Europe and Asia The nation of Turkey spans two continents; the small area north of the Straits of the Bosporus is in Europe, but the larger area south of the Bosporus is Asia. 2 people found this useful.
Turkey (/ˈtɜrki/ ; Turkish: Tuerkiye [türkiye]), ˈtyɾcije officially The republic Of (Turkey: Turkish Tuerkiye (türkiye·cumhuriyeti)), help info is a parliamentary Republic, in eurasia largely Located In, western asia with the smaller Portion Of eastern Thrace In. southeast europe The Bosphorus, the Sea of Marmara, and the Dardanelles (which together form the Turkish Straits) demarcate the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia; they also separate Europe and Asia. Turkey's location at the crossroads of Europe and Asia makes it a country of significant geostrategic importance.
The vast majority of the country is in Asia, with only a very small part being in Europe. A link is provided to the Wikipedia article which has a description and a map. It's both on Europe and Asia continents. Turkey is a transcontinental country. Europe and Asia The nation of Turkey spans two continents; the small area north of the Straits of the Bosporus is in Europe, but the larger area south of the Bosporus is Asia. 2 people found this useful.