Learn the C chord. The first chord we will cover is a C chord—one of the most basic chords in music. Before we do, let's break down just what that means. A proper chord, whether played on a piano, a guitar, or sung by well-trained mice, is simply three or more notes sounded together. 1 You just played a C note. 2  Press your 2nd finger onto the 2nd fret of the D string, then do the pluck-and-ring to play an E. 3  Break time! 4  Simply pluck the open, un-fingered G string.
Learn tips on how to play a C chord on a guitar in this free music video on simplified chord methods for intermediate guitar players. Part of the Video Series: The CAGED Chord Guitar Method Basics. To form the C chord what you want to do is take your ring finger and put it on the third fret of the A string. Then you take your middle finger and put it on the second fret of the D string.
1 Place your third finger at the 5th fret, on the 3rd (G string). 2  This is the C note. 3  Place your fourth finger at the 5th fret, on the 2nd (B string). 4  This is the high E note. 5  When you strum, don't play the bottom or top strings. 6  While they won't make your chord sound bad, they won't do much to make it sound good, either. 1 Place your fourth finger at the 5th fret, on the 2nd (B string). 2  This is the high E note. 3  When you strum, don't play the bottom or top strings. 4
1 Press your 3rd finger onto the 3rd fret of the A string, as indicated above, pluck, and let it ring until it fades out. 2  You just played a C note. 3  Press your 2nd finger onto the 2nd fret of the D string, then do the pluck-and-ring to play an E. 4  Break time! 5  Simply pluck the open, un-fingered G string. 1 You just played a C note. 2  Press your 2nd finger onto the 2nd fret of the D string, then do the pluck-and-ring to play an E. 3  Break time! 4
1 Place your middle finger on the fourth string (D) behind the second fret. 2  This is the E note in this chord. ( 3 The open note between the 2nd and 4th strings is G—the other note in the C chord). 4  Place your third (ring) finger on the fifth string (A) behind the third fret. 1 Place your fourth finger at the 5th fret, on the 2nd (B string). 2  This is the high E note. 3  When you strum, don't play the bottom or top strings. 4  While they won't make your chord sound bad, they won't do much to make it sound good, either.
Learn how to play a C chord on the electric guitar in this free video music lesson. Expert: Mike Lais. Bio: Mike Lais is an accomplished young musician that has a deep passion for music and loves to share is passion with others. Filmmaker: Doug Craig. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
1 Place your second finger at the 9th fret of the 3rd string (G string). 2  This note is an E. 3  Place your 3rd and 4th fingers at the 10th fret, on the 4th and 5th strings, respectively. 4  Strum all the strings. 1 Place your fourth finger at the 5th fret, on the 2nd (B string). 2  This is the high E note. 3  When you strum, don't play the bottom or top strings. 4  While they won't make your chord sound bad, they won't do much to make it sound good, either.
1 Press your 2nd finger onto the 2nd fret of the D string, then do the pluck-and-ring to play an E. 2  Break time! 3  Simply pluck the open, un-fingered G string. 4  Press your 1st finger on the 1st fret of the B string, and let that C note sound loud! 5  Play the notes, one at a time, for a few times. 1 You just played a C note. 2  Press your 2nd finger onto the 2nd fret of the D string, then do the pluck-and-ring to play an E. 3  Break time! 4
How to play a C chord: 1. Place your 1st finger on the 1st fret of the 2nd string. 2. Place your 2nd finger on the 2nd fret of the 4th string. 3. Place your 3rd finger on the 3rd fret of the 5th string. 4. Strum down from the 5th string. Notes: Make sure your 1st finger is on the second string. The 'X' means this string is not played. How to play a D chord: 1. Place your 1st finger on the 2nd fret of the 3rd string. 2. Place your 3rd finger on the 3rd fret of the 2nd string. 3. Place your 2nd finger on the 2nd fret of the 1st string.