For some of us who remember the sudden emergence of HIV into the popular culture and awareness of the US in the early 1980's, HIV appears to have come from nowhere. Rumor swirled about where it came from, how it came to infect people from all walks of life around the world. It's only now, after over 25 years of research and discovery that we can finally start to say with some confidence where HIV came from. Science. 2000 Jun 9;288(5472):1789-96. Timing the ancestor of the HIV-1 pandemic strains.
Both of the AIDS viruses, HIV-1 and HIV-2, originated in Africa... As is often the case with microbes, a jump from one species to another is probably to blame... chimpanzees (for HIV-1) and sooty mangabeys (for HIV-2)... 1981: The Beginning In 1981, the first cases of AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome) were identified among gay men in the United States, acquiring the designation, GRID (Gay-Related.
The United States was the epicenter of the AIDS epidemic of the 1980s, first noticed by doctors in young gay men in Los Angeles, New York City, and San Francisco in 1981. Since then, 1.1 million people live with HIV, more than half of which are unaware of their infection. 
HIV-1 is surprisingly old, and it probably debuted in humans at least three separate times -- one for each subtype, M, N, and O. Scientists' best guess is that the precursor of the most common M virus jumped from the Cameroon chimps to humans sometime before 1931. Part One: Chapter Four Scientific Breakthroughs. HIV-1, which is responsible for the vast majority of AIDS cases worldwide, is divided into three groups -- the major group M, and the much rarer outlier group O and new group N -- that have diverged over years of mutation and evolution.
1 A San Francisco prostitute gives birth to the first of three children who were later diagnosed with AIDS. 2  The children's blood was tested after their deaths and revealed an HIV infection. 3  The mother died of AIDS in May 1987. 1 September 24, The CDC defines a case of AIDS as a disease, at least moderately predictive of a defect in cell-mediated immunity, occurring in a person with no known cause for diminished resistance to that disease.
Formal tracking (surveillance) of AIDS cases began that year in the United States. In 1983, scientists discovered the virus that causes AIDS. The virus was at first named HTLV-III/LAV (human T-cell lymphotropic virus-type III/lymphadenopathy-associated virus) by an international scientific committee. This name was later changed to HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). Over decades, the virus slowly spread across Africa and later into other parts of the world. The earliest known case of infection with HIV-1 in a human was detected in a blood sample collected in 1959 from a man in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo.
In 1982 public health officials began to use the term acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, or AIDS, to describe the occurrences of opportunistic infections, Kaposi's sarcoma (a kind of cancer), and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia in previously healthy people. Over decades, the virus slowly spread across Africa and later into other parts of the world. The earliest known case of infection with HIV-1 in a human was detected in a blood sample collected in 1959 from a man in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Source: American Red Cross For a few at first, their awareness of AIDS began with the publishing of a little noticed entry on page two of the CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report of June 5, 1981, where a strange outbreak of killer pneumonia was spreading among gay men. 1981: The Beginning In 1981, the first cases of AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome) were identified among gay men in the United States, acquiring the designation, GRID (Gay-Related.
There are two species of the virus, HIV-1 and HIV-2. The first evolved from a simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) found in chimpanzees, while the second came from an SIV in a type of monkey called the sooty mangabey. Part One: Chapter Four Scientific Breakthroughs. HIV-1, which is responsible for the vast majority of AIDS cases worldwide, is divided into three groups -- the major group M, and the much rarer outlier group O and new group N -- that have diverged over years of mutation and evolution.