If you would like to contact the corporate offices of Intel, please use their contact information such as their phone number, website, and address listed above to contact them. However, sometimes staff from Intel headquarters do read the reviews on this website. Please take a note that you are about to post a public review about Intel corporate office on CorporateOffice.com. This review will be public, so please do not post any of your personal information
2 Reviews For Intel Headquarters & Corporate Office. this site lists a wrong number for the Intel Corporation. The correct number is (408) 765-8080 - I'm hoping that ecorporateoffices looks at these comments and make the appropriate changes to their web site! I tried to contact them but the contact link below does not work.
The company is spread worldwide with headquarter located in Santa Clara, California, United States. Intel is the world most valued chip makers producing integrated circuits, motherboard chipsets, microprocessors, Bluetooth chipsets, flash memory, network interface cards, graphic cards and embedded processors. Please take a note that you are about to post a public review about Intel corporate office on CorporateOffice.com. This review will be public, so please do not post any of your personal information on this website
Tagged as: intel address, intel corporate address, intel corporate office headquarters, intel headquarters, intel home office, intel main office, intel office address, intel office email, intel office fax, intel office phone, intel office phone number. { 1 comment… read it below or add one }. The name Intel comes from the original name for their company, Integrated Electronics. The initial investment for Intel was $2.5 million. The company went public just two years later, with an initial IPO of $6.8 million ($23.50 per share). Intel’s first product was a semiconductor.
Intel was an early developer of SRAM and DRAM memory chips, and this represented the majority of its business until 1981. Although Intel created the world's first commercial microprocessor chip in 1971, it was not until the success of the personal computer (PC) that this became its primary business. Founded by semiconductor pioneers Robert Noyce and Gordon Moore and widely associated with the executive leadership and vision of Andrew Grove, Intel combines advanced chip design capability with a leading-edge manufacturing capability.
The Intel Museum is located at Intel's headquarters in Santa Clara, California. The address is 2200 Mission College Blvd, Santa Clara, CA 95054, United States. The WHO or World Health Organization HQ is in Switzerland, here is the address:- World Health Organization Avenue Appia 20 1211 Geneva 27 Switzerland.
Intel Corporation (commonly referred to as Intel) is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Santa Clara, California. Founded by semiconductor pioneers Robert Noyce and Gordon Moore and widely associated with the executive leadership and vision of Andrew Grove, Intel combines advanced chip design capability with a leading-edge manufacturing capability.
Write Review. Please take a note that you are about to post a public review about Intel corporate office on CorporateOffice.com. This review will be public, so please do not post any of your personal information on this website
Intel Corporation was founded in 1968 by Gordon E. Moore, Robert Noyce, Arthur Rock, and Max Palevsky. The name Intel comes from the original name for their company, Integrated Electronics. The initial investment for Intel was $2.5 million. The company went public just two years later, with an initial IPO of $6.8 million ($23.50 per share). Intel’s first product was a semiconductor.