4,233 pages on this wiki. The Ito Ito no Mi is a Paramecia-type Devil Fruit which allows its user to create and manipulate strings, making the user a String Human (糸人間, Ito Ningen) . Ito (糸) means string. In the FUNimation subs, it is called the String-String Fruit. It was last eaten by Donquixote Doflamingo.
Indium tin oxide is one of the most widely used transparent conducting oxides because of its two chief properties, its electrical conductivity and optical transparency, as well as the ease with which it can be deposited as a thin film.
Hypomelanosis of Ito is present at birth, and patients usually undergo examination in their first or second years of life. Approximately 75% of patients with hypomelanosis of Ito seek care by the time they are aged 2 years. One fourth of patients seek care after they are aged 2 years, before they are aged 5 years.
DMRC to throw open ITO Metro line by January by Mail Today (New Delhi, India). html. is widely used as the material for transparent electrodes in a diverse range of electronic devices including LCD panels, plasma display panels (PDP), touch panels, e-paper, solar cells and organic electroluminescent (EL) panels.
Indium tin oxide (ITO) is a ternary composition of indium, tin and oxygen in varying proportions. Depending on the oxygen content, it can either be described as a ceramic or alloy. Indium tin oxide is typically encountered as an oxygen saturated composition with a formulation of 74% In, 18% O 2, and 8% Sn by weight.
ITO is not affected by moisture and it can survive in a CIGS cell for 25–30 years on a rooftop. While the sputtering target or evaporative material that is used to deposit the ITO is significantly more costly than AZO, consider that the amount of material placed on each cell is quite small.
Hypomelanosis of Ito (HI) is a syndrome with hypopigmented whorls of skin along the Blaschko lines. The old name, incontinentia pigmenti achromians, implies an association with incontinentia pigmenti (IP) and was probably used because hypomelanosis of Ito appears to be the negative image of incontinentia pigmenti.