The muscles are: 1  The masseter (composed of the superficial and deep head). 2  The temporalis (the sphenomandibularis is considered a part of the temporalis by some sources, and a distinct muscle by others). 3  The medial pterygoid. 4  The lateral pterygoid. There are four classical muscles of mastication. During mastication, three muscles of mastication (musculi masticatorii) are responsible for adduction of the jaw, and one (the lateral pterygoid) helps to abduct it.
They are one of the major muscle groups in the head – the other being the muscles of facial expression. There are four muscles of mastication – the masseter, temporalis, medial pterygoid and lateral pterygoid. Embryologically, the muscles of mastication develop from the first pharyngeal arch. Consequently they are innervated by a branch of the trigeminal nerve (CN V), the mandibular nerve. The entirety of the muscle lies superficially to the pterygoids and temporalis, covering them. 1  Attachments: The superficial part originates from maxillary process of the zygomatic bone. 2  Actions: Elevates the mandible, closing the mouth. 3  Innervation: Mandibular nerve (V 3).
The Temporalis Muscle. The Temporalis Muscles are one of three muscles making up the muscles of Mastication. These muscles are responsible for chewing. The Temporalis muscle is the muscle which assists us to close our mouth, grind our teeth and move our mouth from side to side when we are chewing. The Masseter Muscle is a thick muscle which is primarily responsible for our chewing action. It is one of the strongest muscles in the entire human body. The Masseter muscle is a very thick muscle made up in two parts the Outer Masseter muscle and the Inner Masseter muscle.
There are four muscles that you need to know which are involved in mastication – the temporalis, the masseter, the medial pterygoid and the lateral pterygoid. I’ll begin by showing you the temporalis muscle, which is this muscle here, this big muscle which sits in the temple fossa of the skull. This is another muscle involved in mastication. This muscle actually has two parts. It’s got a superficial part and a deep part, which isn’t actually very clear on this model, but the deep part inserts a bit more posteriorly in the zygomatic arch and the superficial part inserts more anteriorly on the zygomatic arch.
The temporalis is a big fan shaped muscle that sits in the temporal fossa and inserts onto the coronoid process of the mandible. It elevates and retracts the mandible. The masseter sits over of the ramus, and angle of the mandible and acts to elevate the mandible. This is another muscle involved in mastication. This muscle actually has two parts. It’s got a superficial part and a deep part, which isn’t actually very clear on this model, but the deep part inserts a bit more posteriorly in the zygomatic arch and the superficial part inserts more anteriorly on the zygomatic arch.
The muscles used to chew are called the Muscles Of Mastication as mastication is the technical term for chewing. In practical terms there are only a few muscles used f … or chewing each and they all receive inervation from the Mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve. It is involved in mastication too though by aiding the tongue to push food from one side of the mouth to the other. In short there are 8 muscles (4 on each side) used to chew.
Muscles of mastication. The muscles which are required for mastication are known as the muscles of mastication, These muscles help mainly in the movement of the mandible and not the maxilla as maxilla is an integral part of the skull and the mandible being the only movable bone in the skull. Temporalis Muscle: This is the muscle which helps in elevation of the mandible, It is one of the muscles of mastication. It is large shaped in appearance and covers the Temporal area of
Fig 1.1 – The temporalis muscle. The temporalis muscle originates from the temporal fossa – a shallow depression on the lateral aspect of the skull. The muscle is covered by tough fascia, this can harvested surgically, and used to repair a perforated tympanic membrane (an operation known as a myringoplasty). The entirety of the muscle lies superficially to the pterygoids and temporalis, covering them. 1  Attachments: The superficial part originates from maxillary process of the zygomatic bone. 2  Actions: Elevates the mandible, closing the mouth. 3  Innervation: Mandibular nerve (V 3).
This muscle inserts – all the muscles of mastication inserts onto the mandible because the mandible is the bone that moves to cause mastication. It’s the bone which is involved in chewing. The temporalis inserts onto the coronoid process of the mandible. This is another muscle involved in mastication. This muscle actually has two parts. It’s got a superficial part and a deep part, which isn’t actually very clear on this model, but the deep part inserts a bit more posteriorly in the zygomatic arch and the superficial part inserts more anteriorly on the zygomatic arch.