1 If you need to remove the SD card, open the back cover and press in on the card. 2  You will hear a click, and the card will spring out of the slot. 3  Pull the card fully out of the Kindle and replace the back cover. Tips & Warnings. 1  If you need to remove the SD card, open the back cover and press in on the card. 2  You will hear a click, and the card will spring out of the slot. 3  Pull the card fully out of the Kindle and replace the back cover.
If the file is stored to the internal memory, it will read Kindle under the title. If stored to the SD card, it will read SD Card under the title. Scroll to the first file you want to move or delete and press the select wheel to place a mark in the check box on the right side of the title. Inserting SD Card. Shut down the Kindle by pressing the Power switch located on the back of the device. Remove the back cover from the Kindle by pressing down on the left side of the cover and sliding it to the right. You now have access to the SD card slot located on the right side of the Kind
If you're thinking about using the micro USB port on your Kindle tablet to add an external SD card, think again. The micro USB port on the Kindle Fire or Kindle Fire HD doesn't support SD card readers, or any other type of USB devices. The only thing you can use the port for is to connect the tablet to your computer or to a wall charger. All Kindle tablets come with free cloud storage on Amazon.com's website. You can save your files and media to the cloud, and then download them to the tablet as you need them. If you need access to your files and media all the time, even when you can't access the Internet, consider using a Wi-Fi enabled flash drive.
Best Answer: - Does the Kindle Fire have a place for and SD card? No Kindle Fire HD comes without microSD slot. So you have 16/32/64Gb storage options. Plus you have Free Amazon cloud storage. No sd card slot on the device. But you can buy a wireless drive for it, such as Kingsoft. 2. Kindle Fire HD seems very good. I have a Kindle Fire, not very good...
The Nook Tablet also comes with a memory card slot, something the Kindle Fire HD doesn't have.). The Kindle Fire HD has a mini HDMI jack, which means that you'll be able to connect it to a TV. (No HDMI cable is included.) Unlike the original Kindle Fire, the Kindle Fire HD comes with a front-facing camera. 
Kindle don't have any SD Card Slot; but they connect to the Internet trough WI-FI. I connect all the time and I download books and I don't have any problem; WI-FI is good. Jose A · 2 years ago. Thumbs up. (searching on my phone so I am not getting very many results.) I am thinking about getting a Kindle Fire and wanted to know if it has a slot for sd cards? If not sd cards then what do you use to expand the size of the storage space for like movies and music and stuff?
Instructions. Turn the Kindle's power off and turn the device over so the back is facing up. Remove the back cover by pressing down on the cover while sliding it to the right side of the Kindle. The battery compartment, Reset button and SD card slot are visible when the back cover is removed. Insert the SD card by sliding the card with the label side up into the SD card slot. The SD card slot is located on the right side of the Kindle. You will feel a click when the card is fully inserted into the slot. Place the back cover back on the Kindle by laying it flat on the device and sliding it to the left. Tips & Warnings. 1  If you need to remove the SD card, open the back cover and press in on the card. 2  You will hear a click, and the card will spring out of the slot. 3  Pull the card fully out of the Kindle and replace the back cover.
Kindle Fire has an internal SD card that your application can write to. Kindle Fire's SD card is internal and is not removable. You should not have to change your app for Kindle Fire if it currently stores data on the SD card. can I take it that this means the SD cradle is on the inside and the tablet has to be taken apart to get to it like alot of china android tablets are. Quick Reply Reply.