Definition of HARDSCAPE. : structures (as fountains, benches, or gazebos) that are incorporated into a landscape. ADVERTISEMENT. 
In the context of landscape management, hardscape and softscape essentially refer to the heavy or light landscape materials used respectively. While the stone, flagstone and rock are referred to as hardscape, trees, soil, flowerbeds, vegetable gardens, grass and shrubs comprise the softscape. A great combination of hardscape design and softscape decision guarantees a landscaping masterpiece. Softscape recognizes plants, flowers, color scheme and pattern of plantation. Hardscape includes all those installations that prevent the absorption of water, even from natural rains or artificial sprinklers. However, in some cases, a trivial bit of water absorption is possible.
Hardscape gardening isn’t difficult. It just requires planning. You want everything in the hardscape to complement the surroundings. Make sure that all of these extras match the style of your home and garden. Hardscaping is a term that refers to the hard elements, or nonliving features of the landscape. Hardscape Garden Design Hardscapes can be formal or informal, depending on the style of your home and surrounding landscape. With hardscaping, textural variety is important and should be considered carefully. On the one hand, using only one texture or material can make the area appear dull and lifeless.
You need hardscape designs to make up the core of your landscaping, but remember, no landscape design is complete without the plants and flowers (softscaping)! Ideas of hardscaping and softscaping that you can use together include: 1  Covering your trellis or pergola with vines. 
While hardscape is all about brick and mortar, it is softscaping that infuses poetry in the landscaping project. Hardscape takes care of the spaces, proportion, patios, driveways, arbors and gates. Softscape recognizes plants, flowers, color scheme and pattern of plantation. Hardscape includes all those installations that prevent the absorption of water, even from natural rains or artificial sprinklers. However, in some cases, a trivial bit of water absorption is possible.
Hardscape. Hardscape, in the practice of landscaping, refers to the paved areas like streets & sidewalks, large business complexes & housing developments, and other industrial areas where the upper soil profile is no longer exposed to the actual surface of the Earth.
This can include anything from decks and walkways to edging and ornamental features. Hardscape Garden Design Hardscapes can be formal or informal, depending on the style of your home and surrounding landscape. With hardscaping, textural variety is important and should be considered carefully. On the one hand, using only one texture or material can make the area appear dull and lifeless.
What’s the Difference Between. Hardscape is a term that is usually used by most people to describe anything that is not living such as trees, shrubs or other plant material. “Hardscape” can include such a big number of things. Concrete walks or drives, retaining walls, desks, etc. Hardscape is also sometimes used for surface drainage type structures. You generally want to mix hardscape and landscape together. It helps to bring out the characteristics and the beauty of the plant materials used and give the lawnscape and landscaping more of a three dimensional look.
Hardscape refers to hard landscape materials in the built environment structures that are incorporated into a landscape. This can include paved areas, driveways, retaining walls, or any other landscaping made up of hard wearing materials such as stone, concrete etc. as opposed to softscape, the horticultural elements of a landscape. From an urban planning perspective, hardscapes can include very large features, such as paved roads. Most water features are hardscapes because they require a barrier to retain the water, instead of letting it drain into the surrounding soil