Crestor can be used: 1  To lower cholesterol in those with high cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia). 2  Crestor is also used to help raise HDL (good cholesterol). 3  To lower triglycerides in patients with high triglycerides (hypertriglyceridemia). 1 To lower cholesterol in those with high cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia). 2  Crestor is also used to help raise HDL (good cholesterol). 3  To lower triglycerides in patients with high triglycerides (hypertriglyceridemia). 4  Triglycerides are the chemical form in which most fats exist in the body
Crestor is available as a generic termed rosuvastatin or rosuvastatin calcium. Side effects of Crestor include headache, depression, muscle aches or pains, joint pain, sleep problems (insomnia or nightmares), constipation, nausea, stomach pain, indigestion, or diarrhea. 
Rosuvastatin (marketed by AstraZeneca as Crestor) 10 mg tablets. Rosuvastatin, marketed as Crestor, is a member of the drug class of statins, used in combination with exercise, diet, and weight-loss to treat high cholesterol and related conditions, and to prevent cardiovascular disease. It was developed by Shionogi. The primary use of rosuvastatin is for the treatment of dyslipidemia. It is recommended to be used only after other measures such as diet, exercise, and weight reduction have not improved cholesterol levels.
Crestor ® (rosuvastatin calcium) is a prescription medication used for treating a number of conditions related to heart disease, including high cholesterol and high triglycerides. Approved uses of Crestor include: 1  Lowering cholesterol in people with high cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia). 1 Lowering cholesterol in people with high cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia). 2  Crestor can reduce total cholesterol, LDL ( bad cholesterol ), ApoB, non-HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides -- as well as raise HDL ( good cholesterol ).
Crestor (Rosuvastatin) belongs to a class of drugs known as statins or HMG CoA reductase inhibitors. Crestor reduces low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and raises high-density lipoprotein (HDL). The medication is also prescribed to lower triglycerides in the blood. LDL (low density lipoprotein) - also known as bad cholesterol . LDL carries cholesterol from the liver to cells. Crestor, like other statins, prevents the production of LDL by suppressing HMG-CoA reductase, an enzyme in the liver that plays a crucial role in cholesterol production. By doing this, the medication helps prevents coronary artery diseases, and other cardiovascular diseases, such as heart attack, stroke and angina.
Uses. Rosuvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver. 
Rosuvastatin is in a group of drugs called HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, or  statins .. Rosuvastatin reduces levels of bad cholesterol (low-density lipoprotein, or LDL) and triglycerides in the blood, while increasing levels of good cholesterol (high-density lipoprotein, or HDL). Rosuvastatin is used to lower cholesterol and triglycerides (types of fat) in the blood. Rosuvastatin is also used to lower the risk of stroke, heart attack, and other heart complications in people with diabetes, coronary heart disease, or other risk factors. Rosuvastatin is used in adults and children who are at least 10 years old.
1 Crestor is also used to help raise HDL (good cholesterol). 2  To lower triglycerides in patients with high triglycerides (hypertriglyceridemia). 3  Triglycerides are the chemical form in which most fats exist in the body. 1 To lower cholesterol in those with high cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia). 2  Crestor is also used to help raise HDL (good cholesterol). 3  To lower triglycerides in patients with high triglycerides (hypertriglyceridemia). 4
Uses. Rosuvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver