The White Truffle's Regions. The white truffle, for instance, is most commonly found in Italy near Alba and in the Piedmont region where dogs and pigs are used to locate them. They have also located the white truffle in parts of Croatia and Istria. Truffles: The Gourmet Food. Despite sharing the same name as the delectable candy treats, the truffles that are the prize of many chefs have nothing to do with chocolate. Truffles are an edible mushroom that is highly prized and sought after.
Truffles are composed of mostly water and minerals absorbed from the ground via the roots of trees with which they lives in symbiosis. In fact, they grow mainly near the roots of poplars, lime, pine, hazelnut, oak and willow trees and are a kind of parasite of the host organism. · just now. Report Abuse. Truffles are found anywhere from two to 16 inches (5 to 40 cm) below the ground, usually in a circular formation about four to five feet (120 to 150 cm) from the base of an oak tree. A number of varieties exist including desert truffles found in the Middle East and the Mediterranean.
Overview. Truffles are notoriously hard to grow. And until recently, it was thought to be quite impossible to cultivate them outside of their native habitat. However, with the right trees, location and a bit of luck, it is quite possible to grow truffles in the United States. Truffle mushrooms grow amongst the roots of hazelnuts and live oaks that have been inoculated with truffle spores. Be sure to purchase your trees from a reputable and successful truffle farmer as close to your area as possible.
Growing Truffles. For many it is a dream to grow the mystical, rare and delicate fungi with the most arresting aroma in the culinary world. And for those who have taken the plunge, once they find their first truffle, this dream easily becomes an obsession and a passion. 
When it comes to truffles many culinary experts only consider two kinds acceptable: the black truffle and the white. These two primary varieties, like all others, grow underground, but considering their unique symbiotic nature this is too simplistic an answer. Truffles: The Gourmet Food. Despite sharing the same name as the delectable candy treats, the truffles that are the prize of many chefs have nothing to do with chocolate. Truffles are an edible mushroom that is highly prized and sought after.
Since truffles grow in a symbiotic relationship with trees, the grower not only needs to think of the safety of his truffles, but the trees as well. The Martins have been able to protect their trees from pest and disease damage using preventative and natural methods. How to grow truffles. David Cassford wanted to do something with his 11 acres besides mow it. As a native to the Isle of Wight, he has a particular fondness for the filbert nut. Thinking he might like to plant a grove of filbert trees, he researched them online — and discovered truffles.
Purchase your truffle trees. Truffle mushrooms grow amongst the roots of hazelnuts and live oaks that have been inoculated with truffle spores. Be sure to purchase your trees from a reputable and successful truffle farmer as close to your area as possible. Truffles take a considerable investment of time and energy to grow
Some say the white truffle will grow nowhere but Italy; others, such as truffle expert James Trappe, claim there are suitable growing conditions in other areas--including, perhaps, the Willamette Valley of Oregon. As for American-grown black truffles, they are already a commercial crop. 
Growing Truffles at Home or Commercially. There are many people trying to cash in on answering the where do truffles grow question by trying to grow them at home in their backyards or basements. Truffles: The Gourmet Food. Despite sharing the same name as the delectable candy treats, the truffles that are the prize of many chefs have nothing to do with chocolate. Truffles are an edible mushroom that is highly prized and sought after.