Bull Name Meaning. English: nickname for a strong, aggressive, bull-like man, from Middle English bul(l)e, bol(l)e. Occasionally, the name may denote a keeper of a bull. Compare Bulman.German (mainly northern): from a byname for a cattle breeder, keeper, or dealer. Compare South German Ochs.South German: nickname for a short fat man, a variant of Bolle, or a nickname for a man with the physical characteristics of a bull. You can find out when most of the Bull families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Occasionally the name may be occupational for a keeper of a bull, while the form, Simon atte Bole (London 1377) suggests that in addition this may be derived from a house or inn sign. The surname is first recorded in the late 12th Century, (see below). One of the earliest settlers in the New World was Edward Bull, aged 22 yrs, who departed from London, aboard the Faulcon, bound for the Barbados, in April 1635. A coat of arms granted to John Bull, London, depicts a silver chevron charged with three red roses between three silver bulls heads on a red shield.
The name may have originated from the sign of a shop or inn, as 'John at the Bull.' Bul, in Saxon, is a brooch, a stud, a bracelet. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857. Use these genealogy databases to fill in the blanks of your Bull heritage. Bull in Ancestry.com Records. Start your family tree and learn the story of your family in the world's largest online collection of genealogy records and family trees.
Bull Early Origins. First found in Somerset, where John le Bole was one of the first listings of the name found in Kirby's Quest (1284.) The Hundredorum Rolls of 1273 list: William le Bole in Cambridgeshire; Geoffrey Bolle in Staffordshire; Ralph le Bule in Oxfordshire; and Robert le Bule in Somerset. HouseofNames.com and its partners have been researching and writing family name history documents since 1968. We have provided millions of histories worldwide-each with the Personal Service that ensures that new customers become repeat customers.
Last name origins & meanings: 1  English: nickname for a strong, aggressive, bull-like man, from Middle English bul(l)e, bol(l)e. 2  Occasionally, the name may denote a keeper of a bull. 3  Compare Bulman. 4  German (mainly northern): from a byname for a cattle breeder, keeper, or dealer. 1 English: nickname for a strong, aggressive, bull-like man, from Middle English bul(l)e, bol(l)e. 2  Occasionally, the name may denote a keeper of a bull. 3  Compare Bulman.
Bull Name Meaning. English: nickname for a strong, aggressive, bull-like man, from Middle English bul(l)e, bol(l)e. Occasionally, the name may denote a keeper of a bull. Compare Bulman.German (mainly northern): from a byname for a cattle breeder, keeper, or dealer. 
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Wulfwin Bule, which was dated 1170, in the Pipe Rolls of Hampshire, during the reign of King Henry 11, known as The Builder of Churches, 1154 - 1189. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. One of the earliest settlers in the New World was Edward Bull, aged 22 yrs, who departed from London, aboard the Faulcon, bound for the Barbados, in April 1635. A coat of arms granted to John Bull, London, depicts a silver chevron charged with three red roses between three silver bulls heads on a red shield.
One, Hulle le Bule, is noted in the Pipe Rolls of Staffordshire (1201) and William le Bole, appears in the Curia Regis Rolls of Surrey (1214). In the modern idiom the surname has many variant spellings including Bulle, Bool, Boole etc.. On November 11th 1557, Elizabeth Bull, was christened at St. Andrews, Enfield. One of the earliest settlers in the New World was Edward Bull, aged 22 yrs, who departed from London, aboard the Faulcon, bound for the Barbados, in April 1635. A coat of arms granted to John Bull, London, depicts a silver chevron charged with three red roses between three silver bulls heads on a red shield.