Lapis lazuli is a mineral, and a gemstone. It is formed as a metamorphic rock of the limestone type. Lapis is famous for its beautiful blue colour: its name means stone of blue. Lapis Lazuli has been used for many things. Its has been made into beads and used in jewellery since Prehistoric times. It can be carved into statuettes (little sculptures).
Lapis lazuli /ˈlaepɪs ˈlæpɪs/ , ləˈzuːliː /-also/ ˈlaeʒuːli /-ˈlæʒuːli/ , or ˈlaeʒuːlaɪ ˈlæʒuːlaɪ or, lapis for short is a-deep blue semi precious stone that has been prized since antiquity for. its intense color Lapis lazuli also made its way across the Mediterranean to ancient Egypt, where it was a favorite stone for amulets and ornaments such as scarabs; Lapis jewelry has been found at excavations of the Predynastic Egyptian site Naqada (3300–3100 BCE).
Lapis Lazuli. Lapis lazuli is a gemstone of the kind that might have come straight out of the Arabian Nights: a deep blue with golden inclusions of pyrites which shimmer like little stars. This opaque, deep blue gemstone has a grand past. It was among the first gemstones to be worn as jewellery and worked on. Uncut, lapis lazuli is matt and of a deep, dark blue colour, often with golden inclusions and whitish marble veins. The small inclusions with their golden shimmer, which give the stone the magic of a starry sky, are not of gold as people used to think, but of pyrites.
Lapis lazuli is a rock whose most important mineral component is lazurite (25% to 40%), a feldspathoid silicate mineral with the formula (Na,Ca) 8 (AlSiO 4) 6 (S,SO 4 ,Cl) 1-2. Lapis lazuli also made its way across the Mediterranean to ancient Egypt, where it was a favorite stone for amulets and ornaments such as scarabs; Lapis jewelry has been found at excavations of the Predynastic Egyptian site Naqada (3300–3100 BCE).
Lazurite is the essential ingredient of lapis lazuli and is the mineral that gives it the blue color. The best quality material contains less calcite and pyrite. Lazurite is a sodium, calcium, aluminosilicate mineral that contains sulfur: the color is due to a charge transfer between sulfur atoms. 
Lapis lazuli. Lapis lazuli is a gemstone of the kind that might have come straight out of the Arabian Nights: a deep blue with golden inclusions of pyrites which shimmer like little stars. This opaque, deep blue gemstone has a grand past. It was among the first gemstones to be worn as jewellery and worked on. 
Lapis lazuli, also known simply as lapis, is a blue metamorphic rock that has been used by people as a gemstone, sculpting material, and ornamental material for thousands of years. Unlike most other gem materials, lapis lazuli is not a mineral. Instead, it is a rock composed of multiple minerals. The blue color of lapis lazuli is mainly derived from the presence of lazurite, a blue silicate mineral of the sodalite group with a chemical composition of (Na,Ca) 8 (AlSiO 4) 6 (S,Cl,SO 4 ,OH) 2.
At the end of the Middle Ages, lapis lazuli began to be exported to Europe, where it was ground into powder and made into ultramarine, the finest and most expensive of all blue pigments. Lapis lazuli also made its way across the Mediterranean to ancient Egypt, where it was a favorite stone for amulets and ornaments such as scarabs; Lapis jewelry has been found at excavations of the Predynastic Egyptian site Naqada (3300–3100 BCE).
Mineral Class. Rock that is mostly Lazurite with minor Calcite, Pyrite, and other minerals. Lapis Lazuli ON EBAY. ALL ABOUT. Lapis Lazuli is often called Lapis for short. In fact, the shorthand name Lapis is actually used more often to describe this gemstone than the full term Lapis Lazuli. Lapis Lazuli is rarely without any of the white Calcite present. 