The school offers a wide range of opportunities available for our students, both within the school curriculum and through extra-curricular activities. Wavell State High School is a large highly sought after school characterised by outstanding achievement in the academic, cultural and sporting arenas. The school comprises a junior school (years 7, 8 and 9) and a senior school (years 10, 11 and 12). Our staff are extremely committed towards ensuring our students achieve to their highest potential. Wavell State High School's P&C is very supportive and has worked hard to ensure our students have access to excellent facilities and programs. Please contact us for further information.
The median age of the Wavell Heights population was 36 years of age, 1 year below the Australian median. Children aged under 15 years made up 20.9% of the population and people aged 65 years and over made up 13.1% of the population. 78.5% of people living in Wavell Heights were born in Australia, compared to the national average of 69.8%; the next most common countries of birth were New Zealand 3.7%, England 3.2%, Philippines 0.8%, India 0.8%, Italy 0.6%.
Dental Implants. Dental implants are the best way to replace missing teeth. If you have a missing tooth due to extraction, trauma or disease, please ask us about our dental implant treatment. Veneers Veneers can create a whiter, straighter smile in two short appointments which is why it’s one of the most popular cosmetic treatments. You could be amazed at your new smile.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Wavell Heights is a Brisbane suburb located 9 kilometres (5.6 mi) north of the Brisbane central business district. It is named after Field Marshal Lord Wavell who was the Commander-In-Chief of the Allied Forces in the Middle East during the Second World War. 78.5% of people living in Wavell Heights were born in Australia, compared to the national average of 69.8%; the next most common countries of birth were New Zealand 3.7%, England 3.2%, Philippines 0.8%, India 0.8%, Italy 0.6%.
Welcome to our website. I trust that your association with our school will be a satisfying and rewarding one. This website has been prepared to assist you in becoming more familiar with our school. I hope that you find it both comprehensive and informative.
Brisbane for Wednesday Partly cloudy. Slight (20%) chance of a shower. Light winds. Sunny. Winds N/NE 20 to 30 km/h tending N/NW 15 to 25 km/h later. Possible rainfall: 0 mm Chance of any rain: 0% Possible rainfall: 0 mm Chance of any rain: 0%. Thursday Partly cloudy. High (70%) chance of showers, most likely in the morning. The chance of a thunderstorm in the morning. Light winds becoming E 15 to 20 km/h in the middle of the day then becoming light in the evening
Wavell State High School is situated between Wavell Heights, Kedron and Chermside in a residential environment. The school is seven kilometres from the Brisbane central business district. Our staff are extremely committed towards ensuring our students achieve to their highest potential. Wavell State High School's P&C is very supportive and has worked hard to ensure our students have access to excellent facilities and programs. Please contact us for further information.