This means is known as a programming language. Computer languages were first composed of a series of steps to wire a particular program; these morphed into a series of steps keyed into the computer and then executed; later these languages acquired advanced features such as logical branching and object orientation. In 1957, the first of the major languages appeared in the form of FORTRAN. Its name stands for FORmula TRANslating system. The language was designed at IBM for scientific computing. The components were very simple, and provided the programmer with low-level access to the computers innards.
She wrote the first computer program to … calculate Bernoulli numbers. The programming language ADA is named for her. She was a longtime collaborator after 1833. Betty O'Toole has written a biography called Ada, the Enchantress of Numbers. 
Still, it was the first step towards the complex languages of today. In 1951, Grace Hopper wrote the first compiler, A-0 (www.byte.com). A compiler is a program that turns the language’s statements into 0’s and 1’s for the computer to understand. This lead to faster programming, as the programmer no longer had to do the work by hand. In 1957, the first of the major languages appeared in the form of FORTRAN. Its name stands for FORmula TRANslating system. The language was designed at IBM for scientific computing. The components were very simple, and provided the programmer with low-level access to the computers innards.
A programming language, it used a compiler to automatically convert the language into machine code. The first code and compiler was developed in 1952 for the Mark 1 computer at the University of Manchester and is considered to be the first compiled high-level programming language. A programming language is a notation for writing programs, which are specifications of a computation or algorithm. Some, but not all, authors restrict the term programming language to those languages that can express all possible algorithms.
Many subsequent compilers were written in an assembly language as well. But the first C compiler was a modified B compiler, which was written in B. The first B compiler was written in TMG. The TMG compiler used to compile that B compiler was written in PDP-7 assembly language. share | improve this answer.
In 1842, Ada Lovelace, known as the “enchantress of numbers,” wrote the first computer program. Fast-forward 171 years to today (which happens to be Ada Lovelace Day, for highlighting women in science, technology, engineering and math), and computer programming is dominated by men. 
A programming language is a formal constructed language designed to communicate instructions to a machine, particularly a computer. Programming languages can be used to create programs to control the behavior of a machine or to express algorithms. A programming language is a notation for writing programs, which are specifications of a computation or algorithm. Some, but not all, authors restrict the term programming language to those languages that can express all possible
It was eventually realized that programming in assembly language required a great deal of intellectual effort and was error-prone. The first programming languages designed to communicate instructions to a computer were written in the 1950s. An early high-level programming language to be designed for a computer was Plankalkuel, plankalkül developed for The German z3 By Konrad zuse between 1943 and. 1945 Flow-Matic was a major influence in the design of COBOL, since only it and its direct descendent AIMACO were in actual use at the time. The language Fortran was developed at IBM in the mid 1950s, and became the first widely used high-level general purpose programming language.
The first programming languages designed to communicate instructions to a computer were written in the 1950s. An early high-level programming language to be designed for a computer was Plankalkuel, plankalkül developed for The German z3 By Konrad zuse between 1943 and. 1945, however it was not implemented until 1998 and. 2000 A programming language is a notation for writing programs, which are specifications of a computation or algorithm. Some, but not all, authors restrict the term programming language to those languages that can express all possible algorithms.
The first code and compiler was developed in 1952 for the Mark 1 computer at the University of Manchester and is considered to be the first compiled high-level programming language. Flow-Matic was a major influence in the design of COBOL, since only it and its direct descendent AIMACO were in actual use at the time. The language Fortran was developed at IBM in the mid 1950s, and became the first widely used high-level general purpose