Service advisors are paid to sell labor not parts. Our service advisors are paid a percentage of total department labor generated less policy adjustments. Each advisor has a specific percentage based on their skill and their time on the job. They are not paid a percentage of parts sales. Posts: 603. Service Advisors at my store at paid a base salary which is 40% of there total annual pay. Then 60% commission based on the Total Hours Turned (Customer Pay, Warranty and Internal.) Also paid $2.00 for every Chrysler Oil Change Contract they sell.
Re: Service Advisor salary. In this region, the general salary runs $400-$500/week, with a monthly bonus of 1.5% or so of your gross labor sales. My monthlies are averaging ~$100-125K gross labor, so you can do the math. It's not as easy as it may seem
Popular Skills for Automobile Service Advisor. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
The average salary for an Automobile Service Advisor is $38,401 per year. A skill in ADP is associated with high pay for this job. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
Job Description for Automobile Service Advisor. Read More... Automobile service advisor requires a wide range of skills. They usually greet new and current clients as they drive into the service area, work directly with clients as their automobiles are serviced, and work closely with the automobile technicians. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
I don't know about Mercedes Benz specifically, but I was a service advisor... Albeit at a Chevrolet/Geo/Hyundai store (Note that this was 1995). Our pay plan was part salary, and part hourly flat-rate. To be specific, I was paid $2.50 for every hour of labor that I sold from each of my four technicians. I imagine that a typical MB service advisor makes between $50k-$80k depending on how good he or she is, but that's just an educated guess on my part. In all, if you can get a job as a service advisor at the right dealership, (And that is critical), it can be a pretty cool job.
That meant that if my techs Broke even and earned 40 hours each, I would get paid $900 gross (40 hours X 4 techs = 160 hours X $2.50 = $400 + $500 salary) for that week. Note that if you're only breaking even, you're not doing very well. I imagine that a typical MB service advisor makes between $50k-$80k depending on how good he or she is, but that's just an educated guess on my part. In all, if you can get a job as a service advisor at the right dealership, (And that is critical), it can be a pretty cool job.
Re: Service Advisor salary (GTI2pointSLOW). I think it depends on where you live, but I believe it should start around mid 30's. try salary.com I had a final interview last week for a Service Advisor position at one of the local dealers. I'm hoping to get an offer this week. In this region, the general salary runs $400-$500/week, with a monthly bonus of 1.5% or so of your gross labor sales. My monthlies are averaging ~$100-125K gross labor, so you can do the math.
$81,000. Average Mercedes Benz Service Advisor salaries for job postings in Sarasota, FL are 7% lower than average Mercedes Benz Service Advisor salaries for job postings nationwide. 