Where it comes from: Branched-chain amino acids are essential amino acids (specifically, valine, leucine and isoleucine). They are essential, meaning we must get them in our diet because our bodies do not produce them, explains Sarah Currie, RD and personal trainer for New York City-based Physical Equilibrium LLC. 
Another popular way to buy BCAA supplements is in capsule or pill form. Generally these products are not as common as BCAA powders because in order to get the required dosage of BCAAs you have to take quite a few pills and the disgestion time is generally slower than powders. In addition, BCAA pills tend to be larger than most other pill supplements. The BCAA Supplements Guide teaches you everything you need to know about BCAAs and their impact on muscle building, recovery, fat loss and performance.
Among the body’s nine essential amino acids is Branched Chain Amino Acid. This amino acid leads to protein synthesis and the creation of muscle mass. Continue reading to find reviews on the best BCAA supplements in 2015. Being the 5th best BCAA supplement of 2015 may seem to be a disappointment; however, Optimum BCAA 5000 has many positive attributes. To start, the supplement combines a powerful concoction of amino acids and additional ingredients that been proven to stimulate muscle growth.
BCAAs, or Branch Chain Amino Acids are a popular supplement in the fitness industry. I never knew much about them and hence refused to take them. I didn’t think they were worth the money and they couldn’t be that good. But as with a lot of things I started to research them and found out a lot of useful information. 
Best BCAA’s (Branched-chain Amino Acids). Developing a ripped physique requires time, determination and effort. Intense workouts on a daily basis can result in additional muscle mass; however, the key to developing strength and shedding fat is the use of supplements. Being the 5th best BCAA supplement of 2015 may seem to be a disappointment; however, Optimum BCAA 5000 has many positive attributes. To start, the supplement combines a powerful concoction of amino acids and additional ingredients that been proven to stimulate muscle growth.
Branched-chain amino acids are essential nutrients that the body obtains from proteins found in food, especially meat, dairy products, and legumes. They include leucine, isoleucine, and valine. “Branched-chain” refers to the chemical structure of these amino acids. 1 Anorexia. 2  Taking branched-chain amino acids by mouth seems to reduce anorexia and improve overall nutrition in older, undernourished people. 3  There is also early evidence that taking branched-chain amino acids by mouth might be helpful for people with anorexia that is associated with cancer or liver disease.
BCAA stands for branch chain amino acids. BCAA consists of the amino acids leucine, isoleucine and valine. The reason these three amino acids are called BCAA is because they branch off from the other five essential amino acids, (there are a total of eight), to create their own chain. Amino acids are responsible for the formation of proteins in the body. BCAA is very important to the growth of your skeletal muscle and contributes 1/4 of the necessary protein needed for muscle development. Most people get all the BCAA that they need from the foods that they eat. BCAA can be found in the highest levels in dairy products but can also be found in meat and in legumes.
The longer answer is that protein is made up of more than 20 different amino acids. BCAAs are just a few of the amino acids. Specifically, they’re leucine, iso-leucine, and valine. They are the most important amino acids for muscle growth. They are metabolized in your muscles, not in your liver. 
BCAAs can help protect your muscles against the catabolic effects of dieting! In recent years, branched-chain amino acid supplements have come back into vogue in the bodybuilding and fitness community, and with good reason. There's more research that supports the use of BCAAs than most other supplements on the market. Despite the numerous positive benefits to BCAA supplementation, there are many skeptics who suggest that BCAAs are overpriced and that, to get more BCAAs, one should just consume more whey protein. While whey is rich in BCAAs, this isn't the most effective strategy.
It's well established that branched-chain amino acids (particularly leucine) stimulate protein synthesis, and might do so to a greater extent than a normal protein on its own. BCAAs also increase synthesis of the cellular machinery responsible for carrying out the process of protein synthesis. Despite the numerous positive benefits to BCAA supplementation, there are many skeptics who suggest that BCAAs are overpriced and that, to get more BCAAs, one should just consume more whey protein. While whey is rich in BCAAs, this isn't the most effective strategy.