Actinic keratosis, also called solar keratosis, is a precancerous skin condition that develops in sun-exposed skin, especially on the face, hands, forearms, and the neck. It is seen most often in pale-skinned, fair-haired, light-eyed people, beginning at age 30 or 40 and becoming more common with age. 
Keratosis pilaris (KP) facts. 1  Keratosis pilaris is a very common, benign skin disorder that affects adolescents and adults. 2  Keratosis pilaris causes numerous small, rough, tan or red little bumps around hair follicles on the upper arms, thighs, buttocks, and cheeks. Keratosis pilaris creates a goose bumps, gooseflesh, or chicken skin appearance on the skin. A majority of people with keratosis pilaris may be unaware that the skin condition has a designated medical term or that it is treatable.
Keratosis pilaris (KP) (also follicular keratosis, lichen pilaris, or colloquially chicken skin) is a common, autosomal dominant, genetic follicular condition characterized by the appearance of rough, slightly red, bumps on the skin. Keratosis pilaris is commonly described in association with other dry skin conditions, such as ichthyosis vulgaris, xerosis and atopic dermatitis, including those of asthma and allergies.
In this article. Keratosis pilaris is a common, harmless skin condition. It causes small, hard bumps that may make your skin feel like sandpaper. The bumps are often light-colored. They usually appear on your upper arms, thighs, and buttocks, sometimes with redness or swelling. What You Can Do. You can't prevent keratosis pilaris, but you can keep your skin moist to lessen its effects. Some simple things can help keep your skin comfortable. 1  Don't scratch at the bumps or rub your skin roughly. 2  Use warm water rather than hot for bathing and showering.
1 Keratosis pilaris causes numerous small, rough, tan or red little bumps around hair follicles on the upper arms, thighs, buttocks, and cheeks. 2  Keratosis pilaris creates the appearance of gooseflesh, goose bumps, or chicken skin. 3  Keratosis pilaris is seen in patients with other dry skin conditions and atopic dermatitis. Keratosis pilaris creates a goose bumps, gooseflesh, or chicken skin appearance on the skin. A majority of people with keratosis pilaris may be unaware that the skin condition has a designated medical term or that it is treatable.
Keratosis Pilaris (KP) is a very common and completely harmless skin condition. In the population as a whole, keratosis pilaris may affect as many as one person in three. Its name gives some idea of what it is. Keratosis Pilaris is a disorder of hyperkeratosis. It is a very common benign condition, which presents as folliculocentric keratotic papules. Although there is no defined etiology, it is often described in association with ichthyosis vulgaris and less commonly with atopic dermatitis.
Keratosis pilaris results in small bumps on the skin that feel like rough sandpaper. They are skin-colored bumps the size of a grain of sand, many of which are surrounded by a slight pink color in light skinned people and dark spots in dark skinned people. Keratosis pilaris is commonly described in association with other dry skin conditions, such as ichthyosis vulgaris, xerosis and atopic dermatitis, including those of asthma and allergies.
Courtesy of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Seborrheic keratoses are noncancerous (benign) skin growths that some people develop as they age. They often appear on the back or chest, but can occur on any part of the body. Seborrheic keratoses grow slowly, in groups or singly. Most people will develop at least one seborrheic keratosis during their lifetime.
Keratosis pilaris is a very common and completely harmless skin condition. In the population as a whole, keratosis pilaris may affect as many as one person in three. The groups of small spiky bumps are most common on the backs of the upper arms and on the fronts of the thighs. Sometimes keratosis pilaris also affects the back and chest and, in less common forms, the face and eyebrows as well. Some redness may appear around the small spiky bumps.
Keratosis pilaris is a very common skin disorder affecting many people of all ages. Keratosis pilaris is a benign condition that presents as numerous small, rough, red, or tan bumps primarily around hair follicles on the upper arms, legs, buttocks, and sometimes cheeks. Keratosis pilaris creates a goose bumps, gooseflesh, or chicken skin appearance on the skin. A majority of people with keratosis pilaris may be unaware that the skin condition has a designated medical term or that it is treatable.