Best Answer: An element is any substance made completely of only one kind of atom. All of the atoms are the same, same number of protons and electrons. This means that they are all structurally and behaviorally the same = same composition. A compound on the other hand is made of atoms that are not the same.
A compound is a pure substance which is formed by chemical combination of two or more elements in a fixed ratio by mass. Compounds are the substances which can be decomposed by chemical methods into their constituent elements. Liquids are matter having a fixed volume but no fixed shape – they take the shape of the container. Liquids are very difficult to compress. Liquids are composed of higher energy particles which overcome their mutual forces of attraction and move independently. This is the reason why liquids do not have a fixed shape.
•Pure substance: matter that has a fixed (constant) composition and unique properties. Contains only 1 type element or compound; homogeneous  Mixture: Contains at least 2 PHYSICALLY combined compounds; can be homogeneous or heterogeneous. 
A chemical compound is a substance consisting of two or more elements chemically-bonded together in a fixed proportion by mass. By the definition given, a compound is a chemical substance with a definite chemical composition. All of the atoms are the same, same number of protons and electrons. This means that they are all structurally and behaviorally the same = same composition. A compound on the other hand is made of atoms that are not the same.
· just now. Report Abuse. Fixed composition; By the definition above, a compound is a chemical substance with a definite chemical composition. This arises because a compound is made up of identical molecules comprising atoms of the constituent elements, which is expressed by a chemical formula. All of the atoms are the same, same number of protons and electrons. This means that they are all structurally and behaviorally the same = same composition. A compound on the other hand is made of atoms that are not the same.
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. 
Its particles are neither close together nor fixed in place. Matter in the plasma state has variable volume and shape, but as well as neutral atoms, it contains a significant number of ions and electrons, both of which can move around freely. Plasma is the most common form of visible matter in the universe. Historically, the distinction is made based on qualitative differences in properties. Matter in the solid state maintains a fixed volume and shape, with component particles (atoms, molecules or ions) close together and fixed into place.
A chemical substance is a form of matter that has constant chemical composition and characteristic properties. It cannot be separated into components by physical separation methods, i.e., without breaking chemical bonds. Chemical substances can be chemical elements, chemical compounds, ions or alloys. A chemical substance (also called a pure substance) may well be defined as any material with a definite chemical composition in an introductory general chemistry textbook. According to this definition a chemical substance can either be a pure chemical element or a pure chemical compound. But, there are exceptions to this definition; a pure substance can also be defined as a form of matter that has both definite composition and distinct propertie
Solids are matter having fixed shape, fixed volume and are almost impossible to compress. Of course, solids can be crushed into powder form (in which case the fixed shape is destroyed), but in essence the powder still remains a solid. Liquids are matter having a fixed volume but no fixed shape – they take the shape of the container. Liquids are very difficult to compress. Liquids are composed of higher energy particles which overcome their mutual forces of attraction and move independently. This is the reason why liquids do not have a fixed shape.