KEVIN SKINNER SINGS-IF TOMORROW NEVER COMES. Kevin was nominated for a Grammy! This was Kevin Skinner's first audition for America's Got Talent and by far his best song. Kevin Sings Garth Brooks If Tomorrow Never Comes. I NEED YOUR HELP PLEASE! THE MANISCHEWITZ CONTEST FINAL ROIUND! You all helped my wife Ronna Farley clinch the first round by voting for her Eensy Weensy Spiders!
Garth Brooks and Kent Blazy wrote If Tomorrow Never comes. It was first released on Garth's 1989 self-titled debut album. The R&B/Pop group, Joose recorded a cover of the son … g in 1997, and in 2002, Irish Pop singer/former boybander, Ronan Keating released the best version of the song. 3 people found this useful. If Tomorrow Never Comes was written by Garth Brooks and appeared on his eponymous album. It was covered and released as a single, by Irish singer Ronan Keating in 2001. It app … eared on his second album Destination.
This was his first #1 single on the Billboard Country Singles chart. It is also sometimes referred to as his signature song. If Tomorrow Never Comes was named Favorite Country Single in the American Music Awards of 1991. If Tomorrow Never Comes entered the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles chart on September 9, 1989 and peaked at number 1 on December 9.  If Tomorrow Never Comes  served as the first single from Irish singer/songwriter Ronan Keating 's second studio album, Destination.
This was Garth Brooks first country #1. In 1000 UK #1 Hits by Jon Kutner and Spencer Leigh, Brooks said: There are a lot of great writers in Nashville and Kent Blazy and his wife Sharon, who are wonderful people, had been trying to make a living from Kent's songwriting. 
If Tomorrow Never Comes Words and music by Kent Blazy and Garth Brooks © 1988 by BMG Songs, Inc. and Major Bob Music Co., Inc. STORY BEHIND THE SONG -IF TOMORROW NEVER COMES. G arth Brooks has helped me have some interesting 'firsts' in my life, says songwriter and producer Kent Blazy.
Garth Brooks and Kent Blazy wrote If Tomorrow Never comes. It was first released on Garth's 1989 self-titled debut album. The R&B/Pop group, Joose recorded a cover of the son … g in 1997, and in 2002, Irish Pop singer/former boybander, Ronan Keating released the best version of the song. 3 people found this useful. 
Singing Entertainer Aldo sings a tribute to Garth Brooks with his first #1 hit, If Tomorrow Never Comes. 1  Music. 2  Standard YouTube License. Singing Entertainer Aldo sings a tribute to Garth Brooks with his first #1 hit, If Tomorrow Never Comes. Category. License.
She is the subject of the song in this case. The use of an antique screen is present through much of the video, which also features Brooks' ex-wife, Sandy. If Tomorrow Never Comes, directed by John Lloyd Miller, received the #3 position on the CMT The Greatest: 20 Greatest First Videos broadcast. If Tomorrow Never Comes entered the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles chart on September 9, 1989 and peaked at number 1 on December 9.  If Tomorrow Never Comes  served as the first single from Irish singer/songwriter Ronan Keating 's second studio album, Destination.
If Tomorrow Never Comes  is a song recorded by American country music artist Garth Brooks. Written by Brooks and Kent Blazy, it was released in August 1989 as the second single from his album Garth Brooks and also appears on The Hits, The Limited Series and Double Live. If Tomorrow Never Comes entered the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles chart on September 9, 1989 and peaked at number 1 on December 9.  If Tomorrow Never Comes  served as the first single from Irish singer/songwriter Ronan Keating 's second studio album, Destination.