Indiana University Bloomington tuition is $9,087 per year for in-state residents. This is 41% more expensive than the national average public four year tuition of $6,429. The cost is $9,976 and 52% cheaper than the average Indiana tuition of $19,063 for 4 year colleges. Tuition ranks 14th in Indiana amongst 4 year colleges for affordability and is the 58th most expensive 4 year college in the state. Annual Total Cost. The total list price for in-state Indiana residents to go to IU is $21,381 for the 2014/2015 academic year. Out-of-state students who don't possess Indiana residence can expect a one year cost of $44,234.
Tuition & Fees. The best way to estimate how much graduate school at IU Bloomington will cost is by looking at last year’s average cost of attendance for full-time graduate students. Tuition and fees make up a good portion of your cost for graduate school; however, if you can secure a fellowship or a Student Academic Appointment as a teaching or research assistant, many times these positions will pay for all or most of your tuition.
Fees Explained. Workshop fees are subject to change by the action of the IU Board of Trustees. Please refer to the IU Office of the Bursar Rates and Policies for official tuition and fee information. All students pay a $150 non-refundable administrative fee to the Workshop. Estimated 2016 Tuition & Fees. The tuition rates for summer 2016 have not yet been finalized by the Indiana University Office of the Bursar. The 2015 summer tuition rates are provided below for reference only.
Tuition & Financial Aid. Kelley Direct tuition and fees are $1,270/credit hour for the 2015-16 and $1,300 for the 2016-17 academic year. Indiana University charges a distance education fee of $30/credit hour. This fee helps to develop new programs and quality courses and provides you with increased student service contact. If you have questions about federal student loans for graduate students, please email kdfinaid@indiana.edu or visit the Office of Student Financial Assistance for additional information. Kelley Direct tuition and fees are $1,270/credit hour for the 2015-16 and $1,300 for the 2016-17 academic year.
Cost of Attendance. Our office uses estimated information to create a standard cost of attendance, or budget, for all students. This information varies depending on undergraduate or graduate status as well as residency, enrollment status (half-time, full-time etc), and living arrangements. Below are the most common budgets used
All IU students are also responsible for mandatory fees, which vary based on semester and full-time or part-time status. Besides tuition and fees, prospective graduate students need to consider the cost of room and board, books and supplies, transportation, and personal expenses. Tuition and fees make up a good portion of your cost for graduate school; however, if you can secure a fellowship or a Student Academic Appointment as a teaching or research assistant, many times these positions will pay for all or most of your tuition.
You can find last year’s average cost of attendance for full-time graduate students at Student Central on Union, IU Bloomington’s class registration and financial aid office. Visit SCU now ». The Office of the Bursar can provide the most up-to-date information on this year’s actual tuition and fees. Tuition and fees make up a good portion of your cost for graduate school; however, if you can secure a fellowship or a Student Academic Appointment as a teaching or research assistant, many times these positions will pay for all or most of your tuition.