World Heritage. Fraser Island - 1992. Stretching over 120 kilometres along the southern coast of Queensland, Fraser Island (184 000 hectares) is the largest sand island in the world. It was inscribed on the World Heritage List in recognition of its outstanding natural universal values: 
In 1972 UNESCO adopted the World Heritage Convention to protect special places for all humanity. Fraser Island was World Heritage listed by UNESCO in 1992 in recognition of its natural values. 
Report Abuse. Fraser Island Australia World Heritage Listed To find out more go to: http://www.fraserisland.net/ Fraser Island-stretching over 123 kilometres along the southern coast of Queensland. Fraser Island with an area of 184 000 hectares is the largest sand island in the world. Elizabeth · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. Best Answer: Because it is a beautiful island that people want to be preserved. Australia has more natural world heritage sites than any other country in the world. It has 11/166 or 6.6% of them.
Fraser Island: World Heritage Site. Off the coast of Queensland, Fraser Island is a wonderful place to explore. Located not far to the north (approx. 200kms) of Brisbane near Maryborough. The island sits opposite the Queensland coast, separated by the great Sandy Strait and Hervey Bay. Fraser Island is a World Heritage Listed site. See more about: World Heritage Sites in Australia. See more about the National Parks and Reserves in Australia and the National Parks Map. South West of Brisbane, you can explore the Girraween National Park
Fraser Island stretches over 123 kilometres in length and 22 kilometres at its widest point. With an area of 184 000 hectares it is the largest sand island in the world. Fraser Island's World Heritage listing ranks it with Australia's Uluru, Kakadu and the Great Barrier Reef. Fraser Island is a precious part of Australia's natural and cultural heritage, it is protected for all to appreciate and enjoy. Fraser Island is the only place in the world where tall rainforests are found growing on sand dunes at elevations of over 200 metres. The low wallum heaths on the island are of particular evolutionary and ecological significance, and provide magnificent wildflower displays in spring and summer.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Fraser Island is the largest sand island in the world. It was inscribed on the World Heritage List in recognition of its outstanding natural universal values. 
Other examples of places on the World Heritage List include the Grand Canyon, Stonehenge, Egyptian Pyramids, parts of the Amazon and the Great Wall of China. Fraser Island is the world’s largest sand island—a giant sandmass 123 km long and 25 km at its widest point. It was World Heritage-listed in 1992. Under the provisions of the World Heritage Convention, all of Fraser Island was given World Heritage status because it satisfied the following three selection criteria: The Fraser Island World Heritage Area Management Committee is responsible for coordinating the work of the Community, Indigenous and Scientific advisory committees.
Fraser Island is a heritage-listed island located along the southern coast of Queensland, Australia, approximately 200 kilometres (120 mi) north of Brisbane. It is a locality within the Fraser Coast Region. Its length is about 120 kilometres (75 mi) and its width is approximately 24 kilometres (15 mi). It was inscribed as a World Heritage site in 1992. The island is considered to be the largest sand island in the world at 1840 km 2. It is also Queensland's largest island, Australia's sixth largest island and the largest island on the East Coast of Australia.