Logarithmic Spiral. The logarithmic spiral is a spiral whose polar equation is given by. (1). where is the distance from the origin, is the angle from the x-axis, and and are arbitrary constants. The logarithmic spiral is also known as the growth spiral, equiangular spiral, and spira mirabilis.
The logarithmic spiral can be constructed from equally spaced rays by starting at a point along one ray, and drawing the perpendicular to a neighboring ray. As the number of rays approaches infinity, the sequence of segments approaches the smooth logarithmic spiral (Hilton et al.
Mathematics. Spiral curriculum is probably most easily seen in mathematics because most topics in math build off of each other with increasing complexity. For example, in first grade and the beginning of second grade, students learn simple addition and subtraction facts.
'Spiral curriculum' may be a term that you haven't heard before, but you certainly have learned from such a curriculum in your own student life. This lesson will provide a definition of spiral curriculum as well as some examples of the educational tool in action.
In a spiral curriculum, material is revisited repeatedly over months and across grades. Different terms are used to describe such an approach, including “distributed” and “spaced.” A spiral approach is often contrasted with “blocked” or “massed” approaches. In a massed approach, learning is concentrated in continuous blocks. In the design of instructional materials, massing is more common than spacing.
So, as, and the spiral approaches a circle. If is any point on the spiral, then the length of the spiral from to the origin is finite. In fact, from the point which is at distance from the origin measured along a radius vector, the distance from to the pole along the spiral is just the arc length.
Because it is hard to understand what spiral curriculum is through the slightly complicated definition above, this lesson will show what it looks like in practice in the four major subject areas: math, reading, science, and social studies.
Archimedes Spiral. The spiral is a concept in mathematics that is widely used in many fields. A spiral is a shape that starts from a point called center and gets farther away progressively from the central point along with the revolution around the center.