See the birthstone tables for additional references to this stone or citrine jewelry. Citrine is a variety of quartz ranging in colors of yellow, yellow-brown, orange, dark orange-brown, reddish-brown. Citrine crystals can form together with amethyst or smoky quartz to form a bi-colored quartz called ametrine. Almost all citrine that is available on the market today is heat-treated amethyst. 
Citrine Color. Natural untreated citrine is typically pale yellow to golden in color and is often accompanied by smoky brownish tones. Deeper colors can occur ranging from golden orange to rich gold-brown. Darker colors are typically considered more desirable than lighter lemon colors
This polished quartz crystal has good transparency with beautiful golden yellow natural citrine color: it is unheated and untreated. The photo at left shows a front view photo, see also back-view photo ,a side-view photo, and a close-up photo showing some of this rare crystal's many beautiful internal rainbows. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Citrine /ˈsɪtriːn/ is a colour, the most common reference for which is certain coloured varieties of quartz which are a medium deep shade of golden yellow. Citrine has been summarized at various times as yellow, greenish-yellow, brownish yellow or orange. The original reference point for the citrine colour was the citron fruit. The first recorded use of citrine as a colour in English was in 1386. In late medieval and early modern English the citrine colour-name was applied in a wider variety of contexts than it is today and could be reddish or brownish yellow; or orange; or amber (distinguished from yellow).
A saturated yellow to reddish orange color free of brownish tints is prized in citrine, although in the contemporary market, citrine’s most popular shade is an earthy hue—a deep brownish or reddish orange. Citrine’s colors range from pale brownish yellow shades like this one to intense reddish orange hues. - Robert Weldon. This fantasy-cut citrine started out as an amethyst. Its orange hues are the result of low-temperature heat treatment.
Virtually all gem Citrine is not naturally colored, but rather colored from heat treatment of Amethyst. Heating Amethyst at about 750 degrees Fahrenheit will produce a mild yellow color, and heating to about 1700 degrees products deep orange to reddish colors. Most heat treated Citrine has a reddish tint. Citrine is a very affordable gemstone, and all its color ranges are not expensive. It is most often confused with orange-yellow Topaz, which is very similar in color and body. Topaz is the more valuable gemstone, and dealers often sell Citrine labeled as Topaz. Several false trade names for Citrine are Madeira Topaz, Gold Topaz, and Bahia Topaz
Color. Citrine’s attractive color, plus the durability and affordability it shares with most other quartzes, makes it the top-selling yellow-to-orange gem. Citrine’s colors range from pale brownish yellow shades like this one to intense reddish orange hues. - Robert Weldon. This fantasy-cut citrine started out as an amethyst. Its orange hues are the result of low-temperature heat treatment.
The center stone is a traditional 50/50 split of amethyst and citrine. The stones on the left and right are artistic cuts that allow light entering the stone to pass through purple amethyst and yellow citrine and blend into beautiful shades of orange, magenta, peach, and a range of other colors. 