HIPAA Employee Training Online All employees can receive the HIPAA training requirements at a time convenient for them through online training. Resource documents which provide suggestions and requirements for office specific information that must be covered for HIPAA compliance are also included with th
1 If you don’t have a patient portal and don’t want to use a secure, HIPAA compliant email application, avoid including PHI in the text of email, and encrypt any files containing PHI that you are sending to patients.
1 Consider signing up for a secure, HIPAA compliant email application. 2  If you must use email to communicate with patients, a secure email application will protect your communications by using secure channels to send those emails.
Use HIPAA compliant email practices … sleep well at night. It is not far-fetched to think that one of these days, the OCR, while investigating a complaint from a patient about a privacy violation, determines that a provider was disclosing PHI when communicating via email with a patient.
Like so many other things with HIPAA compliance, there’s not one, singular answer that addresses the question of what constitutes HIPAA compliant email. However, the options addressed below represent a collection of first-line strategies that go a long way toward addressing HIPAA email regulations.
Program For HIPAA Compliance Plan Goal The purpose of this manual is to instruct our employees on the compliance rules and regulations of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). In this manual we will outline the key elements of HIPAA.
Part two of a two part series on HIPAA and Email. In Part I of this post, we reviewed some of the statements that the Office of Civil Rights (OCR), the Privacy Rule enforcers, include in their on-line FAQs relevant to HIPAA and email rules.
The HIPAA training DVD provides employee training on the following: Compliance with the Privacy and Security Rules, HITECH which includes breach definition, identification and notification. With this DVD employees can be trained at a time and location convenient for your work environment.
This customizable HIPAA Compliance Manual contains the policy and procedure documentation required by the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules and HITECH. Operating forms are included in the manual for ease of customization for your office.
A session with the Security Officer to customize the HIPAA Compliance Program allowing your business to meet the regulatory requirements as outlined in the HITECH Act. There is also an evaluation of the risk issues associated with the services you provide for covered entities as their business associate.