Cystic Fibrosis. Cystic Fibrosis is a genetic disorder that affects the respiratory, digestive and reproductive systems involving the production of abnormally thick mucus linings in the lungs and can lead to fatal lung infections. The disease can also result in various obstructions of the pancreas, hindering digestion.
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease characterized by the buildup of thick, sticky mucus that can damage many of the body's organs. The disorder's most common signs and symptoms include progressive damage to the respiratory system and chronic digestive system problems.
Cystic Fibrosis is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder. This means that it is caused bychanges (mutations) in a pair of genes. Everyone has two copies of the cystic fibrosisgene, but a person has cystic fibrosis only if both copies of the cystic fibrosis gene have amutation (change).
Cystic fibrosis is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator) gene. Heterozygous carriers (those who … have inherited only one copy of the altered gene) are asymptomatic (do not experience symptoms).
Genetic disorders can be grouped into three different categories. Single gene disorders result from a change or mutation in a single cell. Cystic fibrosis is an example of this type of disorder. Chromosome disorders are caused by too few or too many genes located on chromosomes, or other changes in chromosomes. Down syndrome is a type of chromosome disorder.
Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disorder that affects the respiratory and digestive systems. People with cystic fibrosis inherit a defective gene on chromosome 7 called CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator). The protein produced by this gene normally helps salt (sodium chloride) move in and out of cells.
Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disorder which affects the lungs and pancreas. It causes the lungs to get clogged with mucus, which in turn makes the lungs a breeding ground for … bacteria. In the pancreas, it blocks the pancreas from absorbing enzymes, which makes its victims prone to malnutrition.