Hepatitis A (HA) contracted by an estimated 23,000 Americans each year, a highly contagious liver infection caused by the HA virus (HAV). Like other hepatitis viruses, HAV causes the liver to become inflamed, which affects its ability to function. 
Viral Hepatitis. Hepatitis A A contagious liver disease caused by the hepatitis A virus. Hepatitis A Fact Sheet MMWR Hepatitis B A contagious liver disease caused by the hepatitis B virus. May cause chronic disease increasing the chances of chronic liver disease and liver cancer
Viral Hepatitis is considered to be contagious between people. Generally the infectious agent may be transmitted by saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc. Viral Hepatitis, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. The contagious disease, Viral Hepatitis, can be transmitted: 1  by sexual conduct between people. 2  from person to person by blood. 3  from the mother to her fetus. 4  from person to person by saliva, air, coughing, contact, surfaces, fecal-oral route, etc.
Hepatitis C is a contagious liver disease that ranges in severity from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness that attacks the liver. It results from infection with the Hepatitis C virus (HCV), which is spread primarily through contact with the blood of an infected person. 
A person with hepatitis B is contagious as long as the virus is present in their blood. Anyone who tests positive for the presence of hepatitis C virus (HCV RNA test) should be considered contagious. The HCV RNA test may be performed as follow up to a positive result for anti-HCV. ^ Back to top. Often, people with viral hepatitis can spread the infection even though they don't have symptoms. With hepatitis A, you may be contagious from the time you are infected and continue to be contagious, but less so, for several weeks after symptoms, such as jaundice, develop.
Hepatitis A is a liver infection caused by the Hepatitis A virus (HAV). Hepatitis A is highly contagious. It is usually transmitted by the fecal-oral route, either through person-to-person contact or consumption of contaminated food or water. Hepatitis A is a self-limited disease that does not result in chronic infection.
Hepatitis A is a highly contagious liver infection caused by the hepatitis A virus. The virus is one of several types of hepatitis viruses that cause inflammation and affect your liver's ability to function. 
Hepatitis B is a contagious liver infection caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). The natural course of hepatitis B disease is different from one person to another. 