Here are descriptions of some of the most common and well known: Chlamydia Gonorrhea Genital Herpes HIV/AIDS Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Syphilis Bacterial Vaginosis Trichomoniasis Viral Hepatitis Chlamydia Chlamydia1 (pronounced kla-MID-ee-uh) is a common STD/STI caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. Here are descriptions of some of the most common and well known: 1  Chlamydia. 2  Gonorrhea. 3  Genital Herpes. 4  HIV/AIDS. 5  Human Papillomavirus (HPV). 6  Syphilis. 7  Bacterial Vaginosis.
Introduction. Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are passed from one person to another through unprotected sex or genital contact. You can be tested for STIs at a sexual health clinic, genitourinary medicine (GUM) clinic or GP surgery. Search for a sexual health clinic near you and find out what services they offer
STDs (Sexually Transmitted Diseases) STDs are also called venereal diseases. They are caused by germs that live on the skin or in body fluids such as semen, vaginal fluid or blood. The germs are passed from an infected person often through sexual contact with skin, blood or body fluids. These germs can enter the body through the vagina, mouth, anus and open sores or cuts. STDs are not spread by casual contact, by being in swimming pools or by sitting on toilet seats
Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are caused by infections that are passed from one person to another during sexual contact. These infections often do not cause any symptoms. Medically, infections are only called diseases when they cause symptoms. That is why STDs are also called sexually transmitted infections .. But it’s very common for people to use the terms sexually transmitted diseases or STDs, even when there are no signs of disease.
Approximately 20 different infections are known to be transmitted through sexual contact. Here are descriptions of some of the most common and well known: 1  Chlamydia. 2  Gonorrhea. 3  Genital Herpes. 4  HIV/AIDS. 5  Human Papillomavirus (HPV). 6  Syphilis. 7  Bacterial Vaginosis. 8  Trichomoniasis
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) , also known as Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) or Venereal Diseases (VD) are diseases that are passed on from one person to another through sexual contact, and sometimes by genital contact-the infection can be passed on via vaginal intercourse, oral sex, and anal sex. 
CDC Fact Sheets. Use the links below to visit the STD fact sheet web pages in English and Spanish. Print versions of these fact sheets are available on the web pages. If you'd like to include this content on your web site with automatic updates, visit the Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Syndicated Content page.
STDs are sexually transmitted diseases. This means they are most often -- but not exclusively -- spread by sexual intercourse. HIV, chlamydia, genital herpes, genital warts, gonorrhea, some forms of hepatitis, syphilis, and trichomoniasis are STDs. STDs used to be called venereal diseases or VD. They are among the most common contagious diseases. More than 65 million Americans have an incurable STD. Each year, 20 million new cases are reported; half of these infections are among people ages 15 to 24 and they can have long-term consequences.
Sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs (sometimes called sexually transmitted infections, or STIs) affect people of all ages, backgrounds, and from all walks of life. In the U.S. alone there are approximately 20 million new cases each year, about half of which occur among youth ages 15-24 years. 