On both, Cortana can be quizzed by asking questions by typing text or voice. Mr Bright said Cortana on Android lacked some features found on the Windows version. For instance, he said, it could not listen for music or read emails for flight numbers or parcel delivery information.
Actually, it does work but you have to be out of the Messaging app. If you are in the app Cortana will not read it aloud. So if you are testing by sending yourself a message you need to hit the Start button immediately you send the text.
Originally Posted by neo158 AFAIK she won't read your text messages but she will read email if you ask her to in order to find flight information. Cortana does read your text that's why there are links under days or times you type. But think the guy is asking about cortana being able to read his messages out loud. And i think you need a Bluetooth headset...could be wrong just regurgitating what little I've read about it in the forums.
1 You can send text messages through a phone on Cortana on desktop, but you can’t send texts through other apps at the moment. 2  And you can’t have Cortana actually answer your phone calls. 3  But that would be cool. 4  Perhaps one day you’ll be able to program Cortana to provide canned messages to callers.
#11 Let her read your text messages and reply. This is not new but it’s Cortana doing it for you and it’s pretty sweet. Just enable auto read functionality in your text message settings and Cortana will prompt you when a text message arrives. You can use your voice to reply back to take over using the prompt buttons.
1 Allow Cortana to work offline. 2  This is especially important for people using Cortana on Windows Phone, but even on a laptop, it would still be a major improvement. 3  Currently, when a PC is in airplane mode, if you ask Cortana something, she’ll give you an error message: “I can’t connect at the moment,” she’ll say.
To dictate your message. You can dictate messages using Cortana if it's available to you. If Cortana isn't available to you, or you don't want to use it, you can dictate your messages hands-free using Speech. Whether you use Cortana or Speech, the steps and commands are the same.
On Start, tap Messaging, and then tap New. Enter a phone number or contact, type your message, and then tap Send. You can also tap a contact in People and text from there. For contacts you've pinned to Start, just tap their Tile. If you type a message but don't send it, a draft will be saved automatically.
Cortana is taking over as the Search part of Windows Phone 8.1. It’s not just a speech assistant, but rather both a Siri-like voice assistant and an intelligent text analyser – so you can type, not just talk, to Cortana. You long-press the search button to make Cortana start listening, or a quick tap to type.