One of the most common types of polymer reactions is chain-reaction (addition) polymerization. This type of polymerization is a three step process involving two chemical entities. The first, known simply as a monomer, can be regarded as one link in a polymer chain. It initially exists as simple units. The chemical reaction in which high molecular mass molecules are formed from monomers is known as polymerization. There are two basic types of polymerization, chain-reaction (or addition) and step-reaction (or condensa
In polymer chemistry, polymerization is a process of reacting monomer molecules together in a chemical reaction to form polymer chains or three-dimensional networks. There are many forms of polymerization and different systems exist to categorize them. polymerization: The process of converting a monomer or a mixture of monomers into a polymer. An example of alkene polymerization, in which each styrene monomer's double bond reforms as a single bond plus a bond to another styrene monomer. The product is polystyrene.
Suggest the properties a polymer (plastic) should have in order to be used for a particular purpose. Be able to explain why a polymer (plastic) is suitable for a particular use given the properties of the polymer. HT only: Know and understand that the atoms in plastics are held together by strong covalent bonds. You should be familiar with the idea that everyday items such as supermarket bags are made from polymers. You should appreciate why technology moves forward with the development of materials focusing on the very wide range of uses that polymers have in the 21st century, including health care.
New types of polymers. Chemists are developing new types of polymers. Most polymers, including polyethene and polypropene, are not biodegradable. This means microorganisms cannot break them down, so they may last for many years in rubbish dumps. However, it is possible to include chemicals that cause the polymer to break down more quickly. Polymers have recycling symbols like this one for PVC to show what they are. Many polymers can be recycled. This reduces disposal problems and the amount of crude oil used. But first the different polymers must be separated from each other.
Be able to explain why chemists are developing new types of polymers: a) polymers that dissolve. b) biodegradable polymers. Be able to explain environmental and economic issues related to the use and disposal of polymers. You should be familiar with the idea that everyday items such as supermarket bags are made from polymers. You should appreciate why technology moves forward with the development of materials focusing on the very wide range of uses that polymers have in the 21st century, including health care.
Natural vs Synthetic Polymers. There are two types of polymers: synthetic and natural. Synthetic polymers are derived from petroleum oil, and made by scientists and engineers. Examples of synthetic polymers include nylon, polyethylene, polyester, Teflon, and epoxy. Natural polymers occur in nature and can be extracted
(Phys.org) -- Thanks to advances in polymer chemistry and a wide variety of monomer constituents to choose from, the world of multiblock polymers is wide open. These polymers can result in an astonishing array of materials, ... To create the polymers, the crystalline dyes are submerged in a solution of micro-or nanocrystalline aggregates. The reaction that occurs when light (which provides the energy for the system) is introduced causes the development of polymers on the outermost exposed monomers—by connecting them together.
Addition Polymers. Addition polymers such as polyethylene, polypropylene, poly(vinyl chloride), and polystyrene are linear or branched polymers with little or no cross-linking. As a result, they are thermoplastic materials, which flow easily when heated and can be molded into a variety of shapes. 
Some polymers are water-soluble, which means they dissolve in water. These polymers are often used to wrap products such as dishwasher tablets and pouches containing detergent for washing machines. Polymers have recycling symbols like this one for PVC to show what they are. Many polymers can be recycled. This reduces disposal problems and the amount of crude oil used. But first the different polymers must be separated from each other.