That's next level. In the video above, Swedish finger snapper Emil Axelsson covers the iconic theme using the power of his fingers. And god, does it make my fingers hurt just looking at it. Dude is going to give himself the coolest case of arthritis if he keeps this up. Emil Axelsson via Know Your Meme. 
It's a gesture commonly seen at rock concerts. The index finger and the little finger are upright and the thumb is clasped against the two middle fingers. Ronnie James Dio, who sang with Black Sabbath and Rainbow before forming his own band, was partly responsible for it becoming a common symbol among metal fans.
Comedian Dane Cook parodied the gesture with his Super Finger gesture, which consists of raising the middle finger, ring finger, and thumb on the same hand while lowering (or curling) the index and little fingers. It is meant to be a more powerful version of the finger. This gesture involves pointing at a person with the index finger of one hand while rubbing the pointed finger with the index finger of the opposite hand. The rubbing motion is directed toward the intended recipient and is repeated at least twice.
Religious and spiritual gestures are also common, such as the Christian sign of the cross. In Hinduism and Buddhism, a mudra (Sanskrit, meaning either posture or currency depending on the interpretation) is a symbolic gesture made with the hand or fingers. This gesture involves pointing at a person with the index finger of one hand while rubbing the pointed finger with the index finger of the opposite hand. The rubbing motion is directed toward the intended recipient and is repeated at least twice.
The  fig sign  is a gesture made with the hand and fingers curled and the thumb thrust between the middle and index fingers, or, rarely, the middle and ring fingers, forming the fist so that the thumb partly pokes out. This gesture involves pointing at a person with the index finger of one hand while rubbing the pointed finger with the index finger of the opposite hand. The rubbing motion is directed toward the intended recipient and is repeated at least twice.
A pinky ring is a ring worn on the little finger of either hand, which is also called the fifth finger. FDR's pinky signet was noted and admired by Sir Winston Churchill (who wore his own gold signet on a different finger). Wedding bands (always a gift from wife to husband) were usually worn by Western men in the Victorian age on the left hand pinky finger, although few British men wore wedding rings until World War II.
Petyr Baelish, sometimes called Littlefinger, is the head of House Baelish of the Fingers. He serves as master of coin on King Robert I Baratheon 's small council. Petyr wears a mockingbird as his personal crest instead of House Baelish's sigil, a titan's head. History. Petyr's great-grandfather was a Braavosi sellsword in the service of Lord Corbray; when his son became a hedge knight he took the stone head of the Titan of Braavos as his sigil. Lord Baelish's father was the smallest of small lords of a few rocky acres on the smallest
Finger gestures are almost always intentional. Whether you flash someone the finger, or ask for silence, or pointing somewhere, it's certain that you meant to make that gesture. But some finger movements are unintentional. Examples of this are drumming with your fingers on the table, or putting your fingers over your mouth when you lie
To determine ring size, you can place a ring that fits you on a professional ring sizer mandrel, use a professional ring sizer, or find an approximate fit with a ring size chart or finger size strip. Make sure to measure your finger at room temperature. Heat and cold can cause your fingers to swell or constrict. 
This is the touching of the index and middle finger (or just index finger) with the thumb (forming a rough circle) with the raising of the remaining fingers. In the United States and most of Europe, it means okay and is inoffensive (the ring signals a letter 'O' and the remaining fingers spell a 'K'). This gesture involves pointing at a person with the index finger of one hand while rubbing the pointed finger with the index finger of the opposite hand. The rubbing motion is directed toward the intended recipient and is repeated at least twice.