Stimulants aren’t habit-forming in the doses used to treat ADHD in children and teens. And there is no evidence that taking them leads to drug abuse. In fact, studies have shown that people with ADHD who are treated with medication have lower rates of substance abuse than people with ADHD who are not treated. Common stimulants include: Short-Acting: 1  Amphetamine sulfate (Evekeo). 2  Dextroamphetamine (Dexedrine, ProCentra, Zenzedi). 3  Dexmethylphendiate (Focalin).
The most widely used ADHD drugs are stimulants, such as methylphenidate (the active ingredient in Ritalin) and mixed amphetamine salts (Adderall). Many ADHD drugsRitalin, most notablyhave not been approved by the FDA for use in adults, although physicians do prescribe them to patients off-label. When it comes to prescribing stimulants, however, doctors shouldnt simply treat ADHD adults as extra-large children. More so than kids, adult patients are often taking medications for other conditions (such as depression or anxiety disorders) that could interact with ADHD meds.
Stimulants, however, are a tried and true treatment for ADHD. Ritalin has been used to treat ADHD since the 1960’s and is still in use. Many of the brand-name ADHD medications such as Concerta are just long-acting/slow release formulations of Ritalin. If you give them a stimulant medication, they no longer have the need to self-stimulate. According to a recent survey by the Center for Disease Control, nearly 1 in 10 U.S. children have been diagnosed with ADHD by a health care professional, about 5.4 million kids. About two thirds of these children take a medication.
Many parents are hesitant to give their children a stimulant medication. In part because of this parental resistance to stimulant medications, drug companies are now marketing new non-stimulant drugs for ADHD, including Straterra and Intuniv. If you give them a stimulant medication, they no longer have the need to self-stimulate. According to a recent survey by the Center for Disease Control, nearly 1 in 10 U.S. children have been diagnosed with ADHD by a health care professional, about 5.4 million kids. About two thirds of these children take a
Pediatricians say it's about time. Most drugs prescribed for children have not been tested in children. Before the Food and Drug Administration initiated a pediatric program, only about 20 percent of drugs approved by the FDA were labeled for pediatric use. 
DrugFacts: Stimulant ADHD Medications: Methylphenidate and Amphetamines. Stimulant medications including amphetamines (e.g., Adderall) and methylphenidate (e.g., Ritalin and Concerta) are often prescribed to treat children, adolescents, or adults diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Concerns have been raised that stimulants prescribed to treat a child’s or adolescent’s ADHD could affect an individual’s vulnerability to developing later drug problems—either by increasing the risk or by providing a degree of protection.
60-80% of youth and adults with AD/HD gain significant relief from stimulants. However some individuals require other medications to treat their AD/HD symptoms. There are several reasons for choosing a non-stimulant medication. 1  Stimulants do not relieve symptoms. 2  Stimulants cause intolerable side effects. Despite its hefty price tag, it has become widely used for adults and children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. (AD/HD) It is a non-stimulant medication approved for the treatment of AD/HD in both children and adults.
Medication and treatment. The single most effective treatment for the symptoms of ADHD is stimulant medication. Stimulants have been used for more than 50 years, and became standard treatment for children with ADHD in the 1980s. Approximately one to two children in every 100 are prescribed stimulant medication