Glen A. Taylor is an American billionaire who is the majority owner of the Minnesota Timberwolves basketball team. Forbes estimates his net worth at $1.7 billion. Links: en.wikipedia.org. 593. views. Unrated. 
July 1, 2014: Glen Taylor finalizes purchase of Star Tribune. The Star Tribune joins Taylor’s group of more than 80 businesses, including the Wolves and Lynx and dozens of companies in printing and other industries. Glen Taylor. A businessman and former politician, he bought majority interest in the Timberwolves in 1994 and the WNBA's Lynx five years later. He has been chairman of the NBA's Board of Governors since 2008.
Submit a suggestion & help us add it! Glenn Ford was a Canadian-born American actor from Hollywood's Golden Era with a career that lasted over 50 years. Despite his versatility, Ford was best known for playing ordinary men in unusual circumstances. Melyssa Ford Net Worth: Melyssa Ford is a Canadian actress and model who has a net worth of $2 million dollars. Melyssa Ford was b... 1  Stefanie Powers Net WorthStefanie Powers is an American film and television actress who has a net worth of $8 million. 2  Stefanie Powers has earned her net w..
Wolves owner Glen Taylor makes cash offer to buy Star Tribune. The billionaire Minnesota businessman would be the sole owner and operate it as a stand-alone company. Purchase: Order Reprint. Minnesota billionaire Glen Taylor has made a formal offer to acquire the Star Tribune, a purchase that would add the state’s largest media company to his diverse business empire. Taylor said in an interview Tuesday that he has made a cash offer as an individual without any other investors.
About Glen Taylor. American entrepreneur and businessman Glen Taylor has an estimated net worth of $1.7 billion as of March 2013 according to Forbes. He currently owns the basketball team Minnesota Lynx WNBA. He is also the majority owner of the basketball team Minnesota Timberwolves. Glen Taylor was born on April 20, 1941
Taylor is aiming for growth, even as the industry shrinks. Glen Taylor returned as CEO of Taylor Corp. two years ago because he refused to accept that his company had to decline with its broader industry. Glen Taylor. A businessman and former politician, he bought majority interest in the Timberwolves in 1994 and the WNBA's Lynx five years later. He has been chairman of the NBA's Board of Governors since 2008.
Glen Taylor net worth: $2.3 Billion. Glen Taylor net worth: Glen Taylor is an American businessman who has a net worth of $2.3 billion dollars which makes him one of the richest people in Minnesota.