Gaudium et spes (. [ˈɡawdium et ˈspɛs] , Joy and Hope), the Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World, was one of the four constitutions resulting from the Second Vatican Council. Marie-Dominique Chenu, famed professor of the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, Angelicum was influential in the composition of Gaudium et spes.
The name, Spes Unica, embodies the hopes and dreams for what will happen in this academic building. Spes Unica Hall is a tribute to the rich educational tradition begun by our founder. It represents a future that will see Saint Mary’s ever more widely recognized for the excellent education of women. For all alumnae and for those who will use Spes Unica Hall there is a connection with the Sisters of the Holy Cross and a call from Saint Mary’s College to be people of hope. 1  Educating heart, mind, and soulKelley gives back to the community all that Saint Mary’s gives her ».
Spes. In ancient Roman religion, Spes was the goddess of hope. Multiple temples to Spes are known, and inscriptions indicate that she received private devotion as well as state cult. 
In ancient Roman religion, Spes (pronounced [ˈspeːs]) was the goddess of hope. Multiple temples to Spes are known, and inscriptions indicate that she received private devotion as well as state cult. The Greek counterpart of Spes was Elpis, who by contrast had no formal cult in Greece. The primary myth in which Elpis plays a role is the story of Pandora. The Greeks had ambivalent or even negative feelings about hope, and the concept was unimportant in the philosophical systems of the Stoics and Epicureans.
During the Republic, a temple to ancient Hope (Spes vetus) was supposed to have been located near the Praenestine Gate. It was associated with events that occurred in the 5th century BC, but its existence as anything except perhaps a private shrine has been doubted. The Greek counterpart of Spes was Elpis, who by contrast had no formal cult in Greece. The primary myth in which Elpis plays a role is the story of Pandora. The Greeks had ambivalent or even negative feelings about hope, and the concept was unimportant in the philosophical systems of the Stoics and Epicureans.
If you want to discuss contents of this page-this is the easiest way to do it. View and manage file attachments for this page. A few useful tools to manage this Site. See pages that link to and include this page. Change the name (also URL address, possibly the category) of the page. 
Meaning of Spes. Latin-American name. In Latin-American, the name Spes means-hope.The name Spes originated as an Latin-American name. The name Spes is most often used as a girl name or female name. Latin-American Name Meaning-hope. Origin-Latin-America. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Spes Unica Hall derives its name from the motto of the Congregations of Holy Cross-Sisters, Brothers, Priests: Ave Crux Spes Unica (Hail to the Cross, Our Only Hope). Spes Unica is also the motto of Saint Mary's College. The origin of the motto is thought to be a stanza of an ancient Roman hymn to the True Cross of Christ dating back to the 6th Century, Vexilla Regis Prodeunt. The ninth stanza is as follows: Crux ave, spes unica, For all alumnae and for those who will use Spes Unica Hall there is a connection with the Sisters of the Holy Cross and a call from Saint Mary’s College to be people of hope. 1  Educating heart, mind, and soulKelley gives back to the community all that Saint Mary’s gives her ».
Medical Definition of SPES PHTHISICA. : a state of euphoria occurring in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis. What made you want to look up spes phthisica? 