Some people have stomach pain after eating vegetables. Photo Credit BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images. As a child or teenager, the mere though of vegetables probably made your stomach churn with discomfort. This mental aversion typically subsides with age as you begin to understand the importance of a healthy diet. However, some people actually experience physical discomfort after eating vegetables. The Body Ecology website explains that raw vegetables are increasingly more difficult for the body to digest than cooked vegetables. In fact, the website explains that most people experience digestive distress, like gas, bloating and abdominal pain after consuming raw
Raw vegetables can cause abdominal pain but not gallbladder disease. As many as 25 million Americans have gallstones, which can cause gallbladder attacks characterized by pain on the upper right side of your abdomen, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Rapid weight loss can increase your risk of gallbladder attacks. If you eat raw vegetables to lose weight, you could develop gallbladder problems. But the weight loss, not the raw vegetables, causes the gallbladder disease. You can develop abdominal pain unrelated to your gallbladder after eating raw vegetables
The problem that occurs when I do eat vegetables or fruit is sever pain, bloating, gas, constipation and the food is unprocessed and eventually ejected with the use of laxatives. I had a salad for dinner last month that had me vomiting, sweating and passing out 4-6 hours after eating it well into 11am the next day. 
For many, digestive distress like gas, bloating and abdominal pain are common reactions after eating a meal that includes raw vegetables. Tune in to your stomach the next time you eat a raw vegetable and see how you feel. Poor digestion of raw vegetables is more common than you might think, yet the popular raw foods movement has many of us convinced that we must eat raw foods to be healthy. Yes, raw foods do contain enzymes, but raw vegetables also contain cellulose, a fiber that is poorly digested by humans.
One thing about the body's digestive system-you can't change up on it so quickly. If you are not used to eating raw cruciferous vegetables-and you suddenly eat a meal with them-you might get some gas or stomach upset. It does not mean you should not eat them. Poor digestion of raw vegetables is more common than you might think, yet the popular raw foods movement has many of us convinced that we must eat raw foods to be healthy. Yes, raw foods do contain enzymes, but raw vegetables also contain cellulose, a fiber that is poorly digested by humans.
In some cases, the stomach pain may actually relate to the method of vegetable preparation. For example, ingesting too much salt is a common cause of stomach bloating and abdominal discomfort. Additionally, some people cannot handle heavy creams, cheeses or butters used to flavor vegetables. The Body Ecology website explains that raw vegetables are increasingly more difficult for the body to digest than cooked vegetables. In fact, the website explains that most people experience digestive distress, like gas, bloating and abdominal pain after consuming raw
Fiber. Certain fruits are high-fiber foods that can cause bloating, gas and stomach cramping. Some common high-fiber fruits include apples, raspberries, pears, strawberries, oranges, figs, raisins and bananas. The more of those fruits you eat in one sitting, the more chances you have of developing cramping afterward. 
Fighting With Fructose. If you experience bloating, heartburn and diarrhea in addition to pain in the stomach every time you eat a piece of fruit, you may have fructose intolerance. In those with this intolerance, fructose -- the sugar in fruit -- travels to the intestines undigested. The only way to reduce the pain, bloating, heartburn and diarrhea associated with fructose intolerance is to completely remove fructose from your diet. In addition to fruit, fructose is found in honey, alcohol, sodas and other beverages that contain high-fructose corn syrup.
Eating raw vegetables does not cause stones to form in the gallbladder. Common dietary causes of stone formation include a diet high in fat, being overweight, being female and taking certain medications, including some medications used to treat high cholesterol and hormone replacement therapy. As many as 25 million Americans have gallstones, which can cause gallbladder attacks characterized by pain on the upper right side of your abdomen, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Rapid weight loss can increase your risk of gallbladder attacks.
By simultaneously adding bulk to the stool and making the stool softer, a high-fiber diet allows for improved bowel movements. However, eating too much fiber can cause gastrointestinal discomfort. Since most vegetables feature a high-fiber content, eating too many at one time might cause gas, bloating and indigestion. The Body Ecology website explains that raw vegetables are increasingly more difficult for the body to digest than cooked vegetables. In fact, the website explains that most people experience digestive distress, like gas, bloating and abdominal pain after consuming raw