About metadata. Simply put, metadata is data about data. It is descriptive information about a particular data set, object, or resource, including how it is formatted, and when and by whom it was collected. Although metadata most commonly refers to web resources, it can be about either physical or electronic resources. The underlying concepts of metadata have been in use for as long as collections of information have been organized. For example, the information structure for materials in library card catalogs is a type of metadata that has served as a collection management and resource discovery tool for decades.
1 Descriptive Metadata: Metadata that describes the intellectual content of a resource and used for the indexing, discovery and identification of a digital resource. 2  Administrative Metadata: Metadata that includes management information about the digital resource, such as ownership and rights management. Metadata, usually defined as data about data, is used to describe an object (digital or otherwise), its relationships with other objects, and how the object has been and should be treated over time.
Metadata was traditionally in the card catalogs of libraries. As information has become increasingly digital, metadata is also used to describe digital data using metadata standards specific to a particular discipline. The main purpose of metadata is to facilitate in the discovery of relevant information, more often classified as resource discovery. Metadata also helps organize electronic resources, provide digital identification, and helps support archiving and preservation of the resource.
Meta is a prefix that in most information technology usages means an underlying definition or description.. Metadata summarizes basic information about data, which can make finding and working with particular instances of data easier. For example, author, date created and date modified and file size are examples of very basic document metadata. Having the abilty to filter through that metadata makes it much easier for someone to locate a specific document. In addition to document files, metadata is used for images, videos, spreadsheets and web pages. Metadata can be created manually, or by automated information processing. Manual creation tends to be more accurate, allowing the user to input any information they feel is relevant or needed to help describe the file.
Metadata is  data about data. Two types of metadata exist: structural metadata and descriptive metadata. Structural metadata is data about the containers of data. Descriptive metadata uses individual instances of application data or the data content. The main purpose of metadata is to facilitate in the discovery of relevant information, more often classified as resource discovery. Metadata also helps organize electronic resources, provide digital identification, and helps support archiving and preservation of the resource.
Metadata is a set of data that describes and gives information about other data. Photo metadata allows information to be transported with an image file, in a way that can be understood by other software, hardware, and end users, regardless of the format. Data and information is entered into the image file by users, or by automated capture from cameras or scanners
Metadata consist of information that characterizes data. Metadata are used to provide documentation for data products. In essence, metadata answer who, what, when, where, why, and how about every facet of the data that are being documented. Normally, you will create a single disk file for each metadata record, that is, one disk file describes one data set. You then use some tool to enter information into this disk file so that the metadata conform to the standard. Specifically, 1  Assemble information about th
Metadata is generally categorized into four or five groupings based on the information the metadata captures, as described below: 1  Descriptive Metadata: Metadata that describes the intellectual content of a resource and used for the indexing, discovery and identification of a digital resource. Metadata, usually defined as data about data, is used to describe an object (digital or otherwise), its relationships with other objects, and how the object has been and should be treated over time.
Definition. Data that serves to provide context or additional information about other data. For example, information about the title, subject, author, typeface, enhancements, and size of the data file of a document constitute metadata about that document. 