The river Ganges is important to the followers of Hinduism. It is believed that the river was brought down to earth through the matted locks of Lord Shiva on the request of Ba … gheeratha. For Hindus in India, the Ganga is not just a river but a mother, a goddess, a tradition, a culture and much more. Some Hindus also believe life is incomplete without bathing in the Ganga at least once in one's lifetime.
the reason that the ganges river is so important to the Hindu religion is because it is believed to be lord shiva's hair. Besides irrigation, food and tourism, It has long … been considered a holy river by Hindus and worshiped as the goddess Ganga in Hinduism.. The Ganges Basin with its fertile soil is instrumental to the agricultural economies of India and Bangladesh. The Ganges and its tributaries provide a perennial source of irrigation to a large area. Chief crops cultivated in the area include rice, sugarcane, lentils, oil seeds, potatoes, and wheat.
2. The Ganges: Ganges is the most important and sacred river of India. In Indian culture it is treated as a goddess. It is approximately 2528 km in length with most of it flowing through India. It is the second largest tributary of Ganges River and joins Ganges at Allahabad. With the total length of 1376 km it plays a major role in Indian Economy and ecosystem. Many important cites are situated on the banks of river Yamuna like Delhi and Agra. Tons River is the largest tributary of Yamuna.
The Ganges River, also called Ganga, is a river located in northern India that flows toward the border with Bangladesh (map). It is the longest river in India and flows for around 1,569 miles (2,525 km) from the Himalayan Mountains to the Bay of Bengal. As such, the city's culture is also closely tied into the river as it is the most sacred river in Hinduism. Once the Ganges River flows out of India and into Bangladesh its main branch is known as the Padma River. The Padma River is joined downstream by large rivers like the Jamuna and Meghna rivers.
the reason that the ganges river is so important to the Hindu religion is because it is believed to be lord shiva's hair. Besides irrigation, food and tourism, It has long been considered a holy river by Hindus and worshiped as the goddess Ganga in Hinduism.. For Hindus in India, the Ganga is not just a river but a mother, a goddess, a tradition, a culture and much more. Some Hindus also believe life is incomplete without bathing in the Ganga at least once in one's lifetime.
Despite this pollution however, the Ganges River remains important to the Indian people as well as different species of plants and animals such as the Ganges River dolphin, a very rare species of freshwater dolphin that is native only to that area. As such, the city's culture is also closely tied into the river as it is the most sacred river in Hinduism. Once the Ganges River flows out of India and into Bangladesh its main branch is known as the Padma River. The Padma River is joined downstream by large rivers like the Jamuna and Meghna rivers.
the river ganges is supposedly the holiest of the holy trinity of rivers in India.(the indus,the brahmaputra and the ganges..).. and yes even though the banks of the river are completely filled with piles of garbage and there are hundreds of mutilated bodies floating in it... The Ganges Basin with its fertile soil is instrumental to the agricultural economies of India and Bangladesh. The Ganges and its tributaries provide a perennial source of irrigation to a large area. Chief crops cultivated in the area include rice, sugarcane, lentils, oil seeds, potatoes, and wheat.
The Ganges river is an important cultural aspect to the Hindu population, however researches have found that the Ganges water is not clean and actually contains many harmful bacteria. The river is considered holy by Hindus (the majority population in India) and there are quite a few pilgrimage sites along the banks of the Ganga (Ganges, in English). It is considered holy because it sustains life on a huge and fertile delta and ancient Indians worshipped nature. Clara · 7 years ago.
Pollution of the Ganges River. Despite the religious significance and daily importance of the Ganges River for the people of India, it is one of the most polluted rivers in the world. Pollution of the Ganges is caused by both human and industrial waste due to India's rapid growth as well as religious events. As such, the city's culture is also closely tied into the river as it is the most sacred river in Hinduism. Once the Ganges River flows out of India and into Bangladesh its main branch is known as the Padma River. The Padma River is joined downstream by large rivers like the Jamuna and Meghna rivers.
The river known as the Ganges is officially and popularly known by its Hindu name, Ganga. The river has its source in the Himalayas, at Gaumakh in the southern Himalayas on the Indian side of the Tibetan border. It is 1 560 miles (2 510 km) long and flows through China, India, Nepal and Bangladesh. 