On Election Day, citizens of the United States of America can vote by popular ballot for candidates for public offices at local, state and national levels. In even numbered years, federal elections are always held. In years divisible by four, presidenti
Election Day in the United States of America is the Tuesday following the first Monday in November. It can fall on or between November 2 and November 8. It is the day when popular ballots are held to select public officials.
Election Day in the United States is the day set by law for the general elections of public officials. It occurs on the Tuesday right after the first Monday in November (this does not necessarily mean the first Tuesday in a month because the first day of a month can be a Tuesday).
The United States presidential election of 2016 will be the 58th quadrennial U.S. presidential election and is to be held on Tuesday, November 8, 2016. The incumbent president, Barack Obama, is ineligible to be elected to a third term due to term limits in the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution.
The United States presidential election of 2016, scheduled for Tuesday, November 8, 2016, will be the 58th quadrennial U.S. presidential election. Voters will select presidential electors who in turn will elect a new president and vice president through the electoral college.
For federal offices (President, Vice President, and United States Congress), Election Day occurs only in even-numbered years. Presidential elections are held every four years, in years divisible by four, in which electors for President and Vice President are chosen according to the method determined by each state.
In the United States, Election Day is set by law as a day to elect public officials. It always falls on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November. Presidential elections are held every four years. Elections to the House of Representatives and United States Senate are held every two years.
On the date of the 2016 election, which is the second Tuesday in November, voters will choose the next U.S. president, 34 of the 100 members of the U.S. Senate and all 435 members of U.S. House of Representatives. The political makeup of Congress will likely change.