The Virginia Plan was created by James Madison but presented to the Constitutional Convention by Edmund Randolph, the governor of Virginia, in 1787. The debates over the Virginia Plan and New Jersey Plan lasted from May 29th to June 14th, 1787, when a vote was taken. The result of the vote was 7-3 in favor of the Virginia Plan.
The Outline for the Constitution. Madison is credited with outlining a proposal for government which became known as the “Virginia Plan.” Governor Edmund Randolph, another Virginia delegate, presented the plan to the Constitutional Convention soon after it officially opened. Key elements included: 
The Virginia Plan was a set of fifteen proposals that the governor of Virginia Edmund Randolph presented to the delegates of the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia, on May 29, 1787. These resolutions, drafted by James Madison, essentially outlined a new form of government. 
The Virginia Plan (also known as the Randolph Plan, after its sponsor, or the Large-State Plan) was a proposal by Virginia delegates for a bicameral legislative branch. The plan was drafted by James Madison while he waited for a quorum to assemble at the Constitutional Convention of 1787. The Virginia Plan proposed a legislative branch consisting of two chambers (bicameral legislature), with the dual principles of rotation in office and recall applied to the lower house of the national legislature.
Lesson Summary. The Virginia Plan was presented to the Constitutional Convention in 1787. The plan was a proposal for a new form of government and called for the number of votes each state received in Congress to be based on population, rather than each state receiving one vote. The debates over the Virginia Plan and New Jersey Plan lasted from May 29th to June 14th, 1787, when a vote was taken. The result of the vote was 7-3 in favor of the Virginia Plan.
The list of changes was drafted by James Madison and presented to the Convention by the governor of Virgina, Edmund Randolph. It became known as the Virginia Plan. It was presented to the Convention on May 29, 1787. Also of interest are Charles Pinckney's Plan, the New Jersey Plan, and the British Plan. The following text was taken from the Avalon Project's reproduction of Madison's notes from the convention. 
(on Archives.gov). Drafted by James Madison, and presented by Edmund Randolph to the Constitutional Convention on May 29, 1787, the Virginia Plan proposed a strong central government composed of three branches: legislative, executive, and judicial. 
Confidence votes 654. Also known as the Large-State Plan, the Virginia Plan was the idea that opposed the New-Jersey Plan in that it expressed the idea that representation for the New Legislature should be based off of population (which would favor larger states) rather than have equal representation for the states. The Virginia Plan was a plan that proposed a government that would have three branches. The first branch was the legislature, which made the laws. The second branch was the ex … ecutive branch and they enforced the laws. The third branch was the judiciary branch, which interpret
Best Answer: The Virginia Plan was introduced by Edmund Randolph during the Constitutional Convention. His plan favored large states.The main ideas were: 1) Congress should consist of 2 houses, an upper and lower house. 2) Representation should be determined soley by population. The Virginia Plan favored the large states, it would have a legislature with each states representation based on population. States like Virginia and New York would benefit. The New Jersey Plan favored the smaller states, each state would have one vote. Much like the system under the Articles of Confederation.
Also known as the Large-State Plan, the Virginia Plan was the idea  that opposed the New-Jersey Plan in that it expressed the idea that  representation for the New Legislatu … re should be based off of  population (which would favor larger states) rather than have equal  representation for the states. The Virginia Plan called for a strong national government set up into three branches, legislative, executive, and judicial. The first general plan for the Constitution offered … in Philadelphia. Its key points were a bicameral legislature, and an executive and a judiciary chosen by the national legislature.