Tears normally drain into small holes located in the inside corner of the upper and lower eyelids. The tears then collect in the tear sac. The tear sac lies under the skin between the corner of the eye and the nose. Next, the tears flow through a small tube, called the nasolacrimal duct, into the nose. 
Answer by Journeymanjoe. Confidence votes 1.9K. If you pull your lower lid down on your eye, if you look in a mirror, there is a little hole on the the side closest to your nose and its your tear duct. Think of the tear duct as a drain from your eyes to your nose, this is why your nose runs when you cry.
Tear glands and tear ducts. Print. The tear glands (lacrimal glands), located above each eyeball, continuously supply tear fluid that's wiped across the surface of your eye each time you blink your eyes. Excess fluid drains through the tear ducts into the nose. 
Tears normally drain from the eye through small tubes called tear ducts, which stretch from the eye into the nose. If a tear duct becomes blocked or fails to open, tears cannot drain from the eye properly. The duct may fill with fluid and become swollen, inflamed, and sometimes infected. Blocked tear ducts happen most often in babies, though they may occur at any age.
Tear Duct Anatomy. When the eye blinks, the lid pushes the tears across the eye into the drains (puncta) at the inner corner. The drains empty into channels (canaliculi) that connect the eye with the nose. The channels drain into a tear sac (lacrimal sac) that lies beside the nose. The sac narrows into the tear duct (lacrimal duct), which drains through the nasal bone into the nostril. By Healthwise Staff.
DISCUSSION. Tears flow from tear glands into your eyes through tiny tear ducts. The tear glands are located under your upper lids, and when stimulated, produce tears to form a thin film over your eyeballs. Every time you blink the film spreads over your eyes to keep them moist and free of dust and other irritants.
Tears normally drain from the eyes through tiny tube-like channels called canaliculi, which are located under the skin at the inner corner of the upper and lower eyelids. These channels carry the tears into the tear sac, near the side of the nose, and then into the tear duct, which empties into the nose. (That's one reason your nose runs when you cry.). In most newborns, the place where the tear duct enters the nose is covered by a thin membrane that blocks the opening.
Tear ducts are located in the corner of the eye closest to the nose. There is one on each lid and they function by draining the tears created by the lacrimal gland. The gland … is located under the brow and secretes tears that are then evenly distributed over the eye by the blinking of the lid. Think of the tear duct as a drain from your eyes to your nose, this is why your nose runs when you cry.
If you pull your lower lid down on your eye, if you look in a mirror, there is a little hole on the the side closest to your nose and its your tear duct    Think of the … tear duct as a drain from your eyes to your nose, this is why your nose runs when you cry. 42 people found this useful. Tear ducts are located in the corner of the eye closest to the nose. There is one on each lid and they function by draining the tears created by the lacrimal gland.
The nasolacrimal duct (sometimes called the tear duct) carries tears from the lacrimal sac into the nasal cavity. The opening of the nasolacrimal duct into the inferior nasal meatus is partially covered by a mucosal fold (valve of Hasner or plica lacrimalis). 