Singapore. The culture of Singapore has evolved down the years since the island country itself represents a wonderful blend of cultures as diverse as Malay, Chinese, Indian, and European.
Culture. The melding of Singapore’s rich tapestry of cultures into a harmonious collective is the country’s biggest attraction. Sri Mariamman Temple in Chinatown. Photo by Gildardo via Foter.com Explore the city’s oldest places of worship and get to know our rich multicultural fabric. Sri Mariamman Temple in Chinatown. A very comprehensive guide to Chinese, Malay, Indian, Eurasian and Peranakan cultures. Neighbourhoods Joo Chiat/Katong Discover Peranakan culture as you stroll past heritage shophouses, quaint stores and eateries in this charming corner of eastern Singapore.
Singapore (/ˈsɪŋəpɔr/ or /ˈsɪŋɡəpɔr/), officially the Republic of Singapore, and often referred to as the Lion City, the Garden City, and the Red Dot, is a leading global city-state and island country in Southeast Asia. In 1819, Sir Stamford Raffles founded Singapore as a trading post of the East India Company; after the company collapsed, the islands were ceded to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and became part of its Straits Settlements in 1826. During World War II, Singapore was invaded and occupied by Japan.
World Map / Singapore / Culture of Singapore. The culture of Singapore has evolved down the years since the island country itself represents a wonderful blend of cultures as diverse as Malay, Chinese, Indian, and European. Naturally, Singapore, which was once a fishing village under the British Empire, is a composite and cohesive portrait of various cultures. The most striking part of Singapore culture is its rich ethnic multiplicity that has brought about a seamless diffusion in the way Singaporeans go about their everyday lives.
Singapore has been described as one of the most religious countries in the world. The major religions are Islam (Malay), Hinduism (Indians), Buddhism, Taoism, and folk religion (Chinese), along with a substantial number of Christians of various denominations. 
Singapore Culture. Singapore is a cosmopolitan society where people live harmoniously and interaction among different races are commonly seen. The pattern of Singapore stems from the inherent cultural diversity of the island. It is very common to savour other culture's food and some of the food can be very intriguing. Indian food are relatively spicier, whereas Chinese food is less spicier and the Chinese enjoy seafood. Malay cooking uses coconut milk as their main ingredient, that makes their food very tasty.
Singaporean cuisine is also a prime example of diversity and cultural diffusion in Singapore. In Singapore's hawker centres, for example, traditionally Malay hawker stalls selling also Tamil food. Chinese stalls may introduce Malay ingredients, cooking techniques or entire dishes into their range of catering. This is in recognition of the Malay people as the indigenous community in Singapore. 85% of Singaporeans do not speak Malay. Malay is used in the national anthem, national motto and military parade drill commands.
Business culture in Singapore. Singapore is a multiethnic society comprising of Chinese, Malay, Indian and Eurasian communities. In most cases, you will encounter Singaporean Chinese as your business counterparts as they form the majority of the population.
Old Supreme Court of Singapore. The culture of Singapore is the combination of Asian and European cultures. Influenced by Malay, South Asian, East Asian, and Eurasian cultures, Singapore has been dubbed as a country where East meets West, Easy Asia and Garden city. This is in recognition of the Malay people as the indigenous community in Singapore. 85% of Singaporeans do not speak Malay. Malay is used in the national anthem, national motto and military parade drill commands.