1 If you are transferring vehicle ownership (the title) as well as plates, use Application for Title and Registration (Form 735-226). 2  You will need to pay all fees associated with the title transfer in addition to the license plate transfer fee; 3  Pay a license plate transfer fee of $6; 1 If the registration fee for the new vehicle. 2  is greater than on the old vehicle, pay the difference in fees for the full registration period. 3  Pay the license plate transfer fee. 4  If you are converting license plate configuration to custom, pay the custom license plate fee.
1 $2 transfer fee; 2  Registration (license plate) fees, based on either taxable horsepower or vehicle weight (if you renew your registration when you transfer the plates); 3  Additional licensure fees for an increase in horsepower, if applicable; 4  $2.50 title processing fee; and. When you purchase your vehicle, you may obtain a temporary permit, transfer license plates from a vehicle you already own, or you may purchase new license plates. Our online sales tax calculator may help you estimate the taxes and fees you will pay. 1  Notice to Apply for Title.
1 ($95 title fee, $25 transfer fee). 2  Make sure the correct vehicle information and the correct license plate number being transferred are filled in on the application. 3  Enclose the most recent vehicle registration identification card for the license plate number being transferred. Alternatively, you may visit a Secretary of State facility and complete Application for Vehicle Transaction(s) (VSD 190) or call 800-252-8980 (Illinois Only) to receive the form. 1  Check Transfer or Title and Transfer if the applicant wants to transfer current plates.
your title to the vehicle to which you want to transfer the license plate (your copy of the title application is sufficient if you recently applied for your title), and. the $8 plate transfer fee. Additional fees may be due when transferring a plate to a different type of vehicle (such as from a car to a motor home). If you are purchasing a vehicle from a Michigan licensed dealer, the dealer will handle the plate transfer for you.
1 The fee for Transfer Only is $25, and the fee for Title and Transfer is $120. ( 2 $95 title fee, $25 transfer fee). 3  Make sure the correct vehicle information and the correct license plate number being transferred are filled in on the application. Alternatively, you may visit a Secretary of State facility and complete Application for Vehicle Transaction(s) (VSD 190) or call 800-252-8980 (Illinois Only) to receive the form. 1  Check Transfer or Title and Transfer if the applicant wants to transfer current plates.
1 A copy of the registration for the vehicle you want the plate transferred to. 2  A letter indicating that you want your plates transferred to the new vehicle. 3  The letter should include your: 4  License plate number. 5  Current residence and mailing address. 6  A check or money order for the fee. You may transfer your license plate to another vehicle: 1  In person at a vehicle licensing office. ( 2 Additional service fees may apply.). 3  or. 4  By mailing all of the following to any vehicle licensing office 5  :
You have 30 days from the date of purchase to title and pay sales tax on your newly purchased vehicle. If you do not title the vehicle within 30 days, there is a title penalty of $25 on the 31st day after purchase. When you purchase your vehicle, you may obtain a temporary permit, transfer license plates from a vehicle you already own, or you may purchase new license plates. Our online sales tax calculator may help you estimate the taxes and fees you will pay. 1  Notice to Apply for Title.
Transfer license plates - (vehicle registration refund) Content_Area2When you sell, junk or remove a vehicle from operation, you may transfer most valid license plates to another vehicle of the same type (example: auto to auto, or pickup truck to same weight pickup truck). The other vehicle must also be registered to you, your spouse or domestic partner. 
When you change vehicles, you can transfer your plates to the new vehicle as long as you have not changed the ownership. The same name must be used for both registrations and the registration code needs to remain the same. 
You must fill out the Application for Vehicle Transaction(s) (VSD 190). The Electronic Registration and Title (ERT) System allows you to complete and print an Application for Vehicle Transaction(s) (VSD 190) online. You cannot currently complete a transfer only transaction using the online system. Alternatively, you may visit a Secretary of State facility and complete Application for Vehicle Transaction(s) (VSD 190) or call 800-252-8980 (Illinois Only) to receive the form. 1  Check Transfer or Title and Transfer if the applicant wants to transfer current plates.