Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins). The primary function of capillaries is the exchange of materials between the blood and tissue cells.
Arteries carry blood away from the heart. Pulmonary arteries transport blood that has a low oxygen content from the right ventricle to the lungs. Systemic arteries transport oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues.
There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification.
The aorta carries oxygenated blood to the body. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs and it is the only artery to carry deoxygenated blood. There are two veins associated with the heart. The vena cava, or great vein, carries deoxygenated blood back to the heart from the body.
The pulmonary trunk, which splits into the pulmonary arteries carry deoxygenated (oxygen-poor) blood from the right ventricle of the heart to the lungs to drop off its carbon … dioxide and pick up fresh oxygen.
Pulmonary Circulation. Pulmonary circulation is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries deoxygenated blood away from the heart, to the lungs, and returns oxygenated blood back to the heart. It is what the Pulmonary Artery and the Pulmonary Veins do.
Arteries. The arteries are major blood vessels connected to your heart. 1  The pulmonary artery carries blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs to pick up a fresh supply of oxygen. 2  The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the left side of the heart to the body.
Systemic circulation is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body, and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart. Is is what the arteries and veins do.