Other drugs interact with more than one type of neurotransmitter. Cocaine, for example, attaches to structures that regulate dopamine, thereby producing euphoria; however, cocaine also produces changes in norepinephrine and glutamate, which are the sources of its stimulant effects. Finally, some drugs alter neurotransmission by means other than increasing or decreasing the quantity of receptors stimulated. Benzodiazepines, such as diazepam or lorazepam, enhance receiving cells' responses when the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) attaches to their receptors.
The reason that opiates such as heroin and morphine affect us so powerfully is that these exogenous substances bind to the same receptors as our endogenous opioids. There are three kinds of receptors widely distributed throughout the brain: mu, delta, and kappa receptors. But not all drugs increase dopamine levels in the brain in the same way. 1  Some substances imitate natural neuromediators and take their place on their receptors. 2  Other substances increase the secretion of natural neuromediators. 3  Still other substances block a natural neuromediator.
HOW DRUGS AFFECT NEUROTRANSMITTERS. Dopamine appeared very early in the course of evolution and is involved in many functions that are essential for survival of the organism, such as motricity, attentiveness, motivation, learning, and memorization. But not all drugs increase dopamine levels in the brain in the same way. 1  Some substances imitate natural neuromediators and take their place on their receptors. 2  Other substances increase the secretion of natural neuromediators. 3  Still other substances block a natural neuromediator.
Opioid Drugs: Opioid drugs bind to special endorphin receptors in the brain (the 'mu', 'kappa', 'sigma' 'delta' and 'gamma' receptors) that have to do with pain. When these receptors are occupied and activated, the perception of pain lessens. 
The fact that opioid peptides act as neuromodula-tors, altering the release of other neurotransmitters, addsanother level of complexity to the neuronal networks in thebrain, spinal cord, and periphery that may contribute tocomplex behaviors, such as alcohol consumption. As a result of this modulation, opi-oid peptides can—among other functions—inducepain relief and euphoria as well as affect certain be-haviors, including alcohol consumption. Alcohol canactivate the opioid peptide system.
The symptomatic effects of drug abuse are a result of alterations in the functioning of the following neurotransmitters or their receptors: acetylcholine, dopamine, γ-aminobutyric acid, norepinephrine, opioids and serotonin. Anticholinergic drugs antagonize acetylcholine receptors. 
Opiates (heroin, morphine, etc.). The human body naturally produces its own opiate-like substances and uses them as neurotransmitters. These substances include endorphins, enkephalins, and dynorphin, often collectively known as endogenous opioids. Endogenous opioids modulate our reactions to painful stimuli. But not all drugs increase dopamine levels in the brain in the same way. 1  Some substances imitate natural neuromediators and take their place on their receptors. 2  Other substances increase the secretion of natural neuromediators. 3  Still other substances block a natural neuromediator.
It is structurally very similar to the opioids (opium, morphine, heroin, etc.) and has similar functions: Inhibitory, it is involved in pain reduction and pleasure, and the opioid drugs work by attaching to endorphin's receptor sites. It is also the neurotransmitter that allows bears and other animals to hibernate. Glutamate. Glutamate is an excitatory relative of GABA. It is the most common neurotransmitter in the central nervous system-as much as half of all neurons in the brain-and is especially important in regards to memory. Curiously, glutamate is actually toxic to neurons, and an excess will kill them.
Opioid analgesics influence the function of a number of neurotransmitter systems including classical neurotransmitters, neuropeptides and endogenous opioids. The role of these interactions in analgesia, tolerance and dependence is reviewed. 2. 4. Conclusions Opioid agents Interact with a variety of neurotransmitters, including classical aminergic transmitters, neuropeptides and endogenous opioid peptides. While the exact functional significance of these interactions is not known, they play a critical role in analgesia, tolerance and physical dependence.
Opioids act by attaching to specific proteins called opioid receptors, which are found in the brain, spinal cord, gastrointestinal tract, and other organs in the body. When these drugs attach to their receptors, they reduce the perception of pain. Opioids can also produce drowsiness, mental confusion, nausea, constipation, and, depending upon the amount of drug taken, can depress respiration. Some people experience a euphoric response to opioid medications, since these drugs also affect the brain regions involved in reward.