Marine Engineer or Naval Architects with a rich background of experience are typically rewarded with larger paychecks. Salaries for the relatively untried average out to around $65K, but survey participants with five to 10 years of experience earn a significantly higher median of $85K. For Marine Engineer or Naval Architects, 10 to 20 years of experience on the job amounts to an average salary of $99K. More than 20 years of experience seem related to solid financial gains; veterans in this group report earning a median of $125K. Marine Engineer or Naval Architect Salary. (United States). Median pay for Marine Engineer or Naval Architects in the United States is around $84K annually. In the world of Marine Engineer or Naval Architects, total cash compensation can vary between $55K and $147K.
Marine Engineers Salary. Marine Engineers average salary is $80,536, median salary is $73,200 with a salary range from $50,000 to $140,000. Marine Engineers salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Marine Engineers salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
People in this job function have the most lucrative average salary level in Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services, which has average wages of $110970. The national wage distribution is shown below. To overlay local salaries for a Marine Engineer or Naval Architect, please select your state. Marine Engineers and Naval Architects can receive a compensation of Eighty Five Thousand dollars yearly. Marine Engineers and Naval Architects make the most money in Maryland, where they can receive salary pay of approximating $107680.
Overall Salaries. Marine Engineer salaries can vary depending on your experience, the location, company, industry, and benefits provided. Nationwide, most marine engineers make between per year, or per hour. 
(Lisa Blue/E+/Getty) Median Salary: $79,997 Change in salary (2007–2013): +28% Total employees: 14,300 “Other engineers” encompasses a wide variety of fields, from agriculture to biomechanics to textiles—not to mention an array of marine jobs like naval architect. Change in salary (2007–2013): +28%. Total employees: 14,300. “Other engineers” encompasses a wide variety of fields, from agriculture to biomechanics to textiles—not to mention an array of marine jobs like naval architect. That’s a bit of a misnomer—they’re not quite architects and most don’t serve in the navy.
Average Marine Engineer salaries for job postings nationwide are 42% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Average Marine Engineer salaries for job postings in United States are the same as average Marine Engineer salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The average salary for merchant marine jobs is $45,000. Average merchant marine salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term merchant marine anywhere in the job listing.
A Marine Engineer or Naval Architect will normally get average salaries on a scale from 64000 - 96000 based on tenure and industry expertise. Marine Engineers and Naval Architects can receive a compensation of Eighty Five Thousand dollars yearly. Marine Engineers and Naval Architects make the most money in Maryland, where they can receive salary pay of approximating $107680.