Now that you know more about Scandinavia's countries, take a look at the maps of Scandinavia and learn more about the capitals of Scandinavia. About Scandinavia: Scandinavia is considered to be the northern European peninsula that includes the countries of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and several thousands of islands. Learn more in Category: Norway. Sweden: Sweden offers numerous lakes and is the largest of the Scandinavian countries-both in land size and population. Volvo and Saab both originated here and are a big part of the Swedish industry.
This is Western Europe ONLY! I don't know all of them and it is making it very hard to label my map. Here's what I already have. Norway, Sweden, Finland, Ireland, England, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, France, Spain, Portugal, Greece, and Italy. That's only 14 so far. This is Western Europe ONLY! I don't know all of them and it is making it very hard to label my map. Here's what I already have. Norway, Sweden, Finland, Ireland, England, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, France, Spain, Portugal, Greece, and...
It also includes three countries that few consider part of traditional Eastern Europe: Finland, Greece, and Turkey. Finland is east of Poland (and north of the Baltic), so geographically it certainly is in Eastern Europe. Greece is also geographically in Eastern Europe (it’s south of the Balkans). However, we will only examine the part of Greece that is most tied to the rest of Eastern Europe: Greece’s northern portion. Like Russia, most of Turkey is in Asia, so we will just look at its western side. In sum, I spent three years in 25 countries nearly 25 years after the Berlin Wall came down
Northern Ireland is a constituency of the European Parliament. Since 1979, it has elected three MEPs using the Single Transferable Vote, making it the only constituency in the United Kingdom to not use party list proportional representation. 
This is Western Europe ONLY! I don&#39;t know all of them and it is making it very hard to label my map. Here&#39;s what I already have. Norway, Sweden, Finland, Ireland, England, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, France, Spain, Portugal,... This is Western Europe ONLY! I don't know all of them and it is making it very hard to label my map. Here's what I already have. Norway, Sweden, Finland, Ireland, England, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, France, Spain, Portugal, Greece, and...
Historically, when Europe was dominated by the Mediterranean region (i.e., the Roman Empire), everything not near this sea was termed northern Europe, including Germany, the Low Countries, and Austria. This meaning is still used today in some contexts, such as in discussions of the Northern Renaissance. With the exception of the UK and Ireland, northern European countries are known for harsh winters. For example, the Winter of 2010-2011 in Europe began in November throughout Northern Europe. Temperatures can reach as low as minus 50 degrees Celsius in some parts of northern Europ
Geographically, northern Europe consist of (from west to east): Iceland, the British Isles, Scandinavia, Northern Germany, Finland, the Baltic States and Northwest Russia. With the exception of the UK and Ireland, northern European countries are known for harsh winters. For example, the Winter of 2010-2011 in Europe began in November throughout Northern Europe. Temperatures can reach as low as minus 50 degrees Celsius in some parts of northern Europe
Where is Scandinavia: Scandinavia is a region in northern Europe. The Scandinavian Peninsula is the largest peninsula in Europe and it extends from above the Arctic Circle to the North and Baltic Seas. Scandinavia is a historical and geographical region covering much of Northern Europe. Learn more in Category: Norway. Sweden: Sweden offers numerous lakes and is the largest of the Scandinavian countries-both in land size and population. Volvo and Saab both originated here and are a big part of the Swedish industry.
Greenland, a constituent country of Kingdom of Denmark, geographically a part of North America, is politically a part of the Northern Europe because of it's strong historic ties to the European mainland, and may be included depending on the context. With the exception of the UK and Ireland, northern European countries are known for harsh winters. For example, the Winter of 2010-2011 in Europe began in November throughout Northern Europe. Temperatures can reach as low as minus 50 degrees Celsius in some parts of northern Europe