A fresh ham--meaning one that has not been cured, smoked or pre-cooked--should be consumed within 3-5 days or frozen. It should be defrosted, cooked, and consumed within 6 months. A cured ham should be consumed within 7 days or frozen. A frozen cured ham should be defrosted and consumed within 3-4 months. A spiral-cut ham should be consumed within 3-5 days or frozen. The frozen ham should be defrosted and consumed within 1-2 months. 
1 Leftover cooked ham should be tightly wrapped and refrigerated promptly after the meal. 2  Ham may be kept frozen for up to 60 days. 3  The nutritional value of the ham will be maintained, but not its full flavor and texture. 4  If you must freeze your ham, wrap it tightly. 1 Once opened, Hormel® Cure 81® ham can be stored in the refrigerator for five to seven days. 2  Leftover cooked ham should be tightly wrapped and refrigerated promptly after the meal. 3
Ham Cindy 2015-04-21T07:16:00+00:00. How long does ham last? The shelf life of ham depends on a variety of factors, such as the sell by date, the preparation method and how it was stored. Ham, just like bacon, is a cured meat prepared from the hind thighs of a hog. The rear of the pig is thick and flavorful. It is the curing process that makes a ham, it is fully cooked. A popular sandwich meat year around, a whole or half ham becomes a centerpiece on special occasions like Easter or Christmas.
With that, I am assuming that when you say ham you mean ham that is salty tasting and typically pink in color. The word ham actually referrs to the part of the pig that a ham comes from-the butt, hip, or leg of the pig. Anyway, a fully cooked smoked (salty) ham should be good for at least a week in your fridge. Watch for signs of spoilage like a slime coating on the meat itself (not the fat), when in bright light-a metalic shiny substance usually green or silver in color (this is the beginning of mold), or a change in od
1 The precise answer to the question “How long does baked ham last?” depends to a large extent on storage conditions — refrigerate within two hours of cooking. 
How long can I keep the thawed ham in the fridge? Answer: If you thawed the ham in the refrigerator, you’ve got a few days. Ham that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be safely kept for an additional 3 to 5 days in the refrigerator before cooking, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. You also can safely refreeze the ham within that same timeframe.
purseglove_MA_F_67Three days for a cooked ham in the refrigerator and you wonder if it is fit to eat and yet you are feeding said pork product to your dogs? Whats wrong with this picture? Post # 3. I just used up the last of the ham and it had been in the fridge for a week. I'm usually leary about keeping leftovers for more than a couple of days, but I figured the ham is salted and cured so it should be okay for a few additional days. Color, smell, and texture will tell you alot.
Hi -. Bought a pre-cooked spiral cut ham from Burger's Smokehouse for Xmas. Arrived frozen. Thawed a couple of days in fridge, then cooked low and slow to heat up and glaze. Now it's one week later and still lots of leftovers ! Burger's instructions state ham is good for 28 days in fridge, then freeze