The humidity, temperature and air flow in a room affect how long it takes to dry, but thinset generally is cured and ready to walk on or grout in 24 to 48 hours. Some installers and home specialists recommend waiting 72 hours for tiles applied to floors. Thinset Thickness. Follow manufacturer directions for mixing to the proper consistency, because the thickness of the mortar at application determines how long it takes to cure. Avoid spreading too much thinset on the surface so that the tile does not slip and dry unevenly.
I've grouted tile within 24 hours of laying it, but that was under ideal conditions. I'd recommend waiting at least 24 hours. Same with grout. Just note that it takes a lot longer than 24 hours for grout to cure, before you should apply sealer. thinset and grout drying times. Assuming the temperature doesn't drop below 55 degrees fahrenheit during any of this time you will be well good to go. Thinset under travertine will set in a matter of just a few hours if the temperature is agreeable, and overnight will be plenty of time to stay off of it.
How long should will it take for thinset to dry under 12 x 12 travertine? I'm using Lowe's Lacrete modified. 24 hours? How can I tell for sure that it's ready for grout? thinset and grout drying times. Assuming the temperature doesn't drop below 55 degrees fahrenheit during any of this time you will be well good to go. Thinset under travertine will set in a matter of just a few hours if the temperature is agreeable, and overnight will be plenty of time to stay off of it.
You asked some pretty straightforward questions, let me do the same in my answers. 1- How long should we let the tile and thinset sit before grouting? If you are using basic 12 x 12 porcelain field tile and bagged thinset mortar, wait 8 to 12 hours before grouting. 2 - How long should we let the grout dry? You said you used a non-sanded grout, and if you got it from us, it should look something like this.... Polyblend non-sanded grout typically dries in 6-7 hours. The thinner the tile spacers you put in, the faster it will take the grout to dry.
Time Before Grouting. Drying time varies with ambient air temperature, humidity and moisture content of the mortar when applied. In general, mortar must set at least 24 to 48 hours before grouting. Apply mortar when the ambient air temperature is between 50 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Ideally, temperatures should not exceed this range for at least 72 hours after application. Even when mortar appears dry on the outside edges of the tile, it may not have fully cured beneath the tile surface. Allowing proper time for the mortar to cure before grouting will ensure your tiled surface will last for at least decades.
Allow thinset to dry for 24 to 48 hours. Thinset mortar adheres tiles to floors, countertops, backspashes and walls. It shouldn't be walked on or disturbed during the drying process, as doing so could cause a serious misalignment of the tiles you just laid, a problem that would be difficult to fix. Even if you take care not to disturb the tiles while grouting before the thinset has cured, you would be sealing it off from the air it needs to cure. To maintain its adhering properties, the thinset needs to dry completely.
18x18 tiles will still have twice as much water as 12 by 12 will 24 hours later. the edges maybe dry, and tile seem fixed and stable but underneath the centers the thinset will still be wet. You can break the seal of the thinset to the tile by walking on it and weaken the tile. 
Thinset Dry Time. I recently installed a tile floor (12x24 full body porcelain) in my bathroom using Ditra XL and was wondering how long should I let the floor dry before walking on it.
24 to 48 Hours. You should wait at least 24 hours before grouting the tiles. You may notice that the edges of the thinset or the thinset showing through the grout lines looks dry. Don't be fooled by this. The thinset under the tiles isn't receiving as much air as the edges and is therefor not fully cured. Even if you take care not to disturb the tiles while grouting before the thinset has cured, you would be sealing it off from the air it needs to cure. To maintain its adhering properties, the thinset needs to dry completely.
How long should I wait for the thinset to dry before I grout the countertop and floor? I installed a portion of the countertop with marble tiles. The thinset on the counter is only about 1/2-3/4 thick with a 1/4 wide grout line. The floor is some kind of a glazed clay tile. 