Gestational diabetes starts when your body is not able to make and use all the insulin it needs for pregnancy. Without enough insulin, glucose cannot leave the blood and be changed to energy. Glucose builds up in the blood to high levels. This is called hyperglycemia.
When you have gestational diabetes, your pancreas works overtime to produce insulin, but the insulin does not lower your blood glucose levels. Although insulin does not cross the placenta, glucose and other nutrients do. So extra blood glucose goes through the placenta, giving the baby high
If you've had gestational diabetes before, you'll either be asked to monitor your blood glucose yourself, or you'll be offered the OGTT earlier, around 14 weeks of pregnancy and again at 28 weeks, if the first test was normal.
Gestational diabetes happens when you have too much sugar (glucose) in your blood during pregnancy. Your blood sugar levels can go up when your body isn't producing enough of a hormone called insulin. Insulin helps: While you're expecting, your body has to make extra insulin, especially from mid-pregnancy onwards.
Pregnant women who have never had diabetes before but who have high blood glucose (sugar) levels during pregnancy are said to have gestational diabetes. According to a 2014 analysis by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the prevalence of gestational diabetes is as high as 9.2%.
during pregnancy. If you have gestational diabetes, a health care team will likely be part of your care. In addition to your obstetrician-gynecologist, or OB/GYN—the doctor who will deliver your baby—your team might include a doctor who treats diabetes, a diabetes educator, and a dietitian to help you plan meals.
You may do (NCCWCH 2008: 63) . If you've had gestational diabetes before, you'll either be asked to monitor your blood sugar yourself, or you may be offered the OGTT between 16 weeks and 18 weeks. If that test is normal, you can have it again at 28 weeks, to be on the safe side (NCCWCH 2008: 77) .
Women who have had gestational diabetes are at a great risk of developing Type 2 diabetes in the future. It is recommended that you have a diabetes test in six to 12 weeks after your baby is born, and then regular checks every two or three years to monitor your diabetes. (ADIPS 2010) .