Dynamic Data Exchange was first introduced in 1987 with the release of Windows 2.0 as a method of interprocess communication so that one program could communicate with or control another program, somewhat like Sun's RPC (Remote Procedure Call). It allows one program to subscribe to items made available by another program, for example a cell in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, and be notified whenever that item changes. DDE was partially superseded by Object Linking and Embedding (OLE), but remains used for simple interprocess communication tasks.
California-based company Wonderware developed an extension for DDE called NetDDE that could be used to initiate and maintain the network connections needed for DDE conversations between DDE-aware applications running on different computers in a network and transparently exchange data. It allows one program to subscribe to items made available by another program, for example a cell in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, and be notified whenever that item changes. DDE was partially superseded by Object Linking and Embedding (OLE), but remains used for simple interprocess communication tasks.
DDE is a system that monitors the position of the accelerator and the driver’s application of pressure to determine exactly when fuel injection is to start, as well as the volume of fuel supplied and charge pressure. This ensures optimum fine tuning for the relevant engine responses under all running conditions. Digital Diesel Electronics (DDE). Fine tuning for fuel injection-the Digital Diesel Electronics (DDE) system manages all engine functions in BMW diesel models. This saves fuel, ensures you enjoy smooth, cultivated performance and helps reduce exhaust emissions, thereby minimising your BMW’s impact on the environment. Common rail fuel injection in BMW diesel engines combines greater fuel efficiency, lower emissions, improved engine sound and significantly smoother running
In computing, Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) is a method of interprocess communication under Microsoft Windows or OS/2. It allows one program to subscribe to items made available by another program, for example a cell in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, and be notified whenever that item changes. DDE was partially superseded by Object Linking and Embedding (OLE), but remains used for simple interprocess communication tasks.
Location: Bremen, Germany. Try setting the service Network DDE and Network DDE Server (don't know exactly what they are called in English) to manual. Adobe Reader might have something to do with it since I have read that some people have gotten rid of this by using Foxit Reader instead. If you really want to use Adobe Reader then you should go to the current version, 6.0 is slightly outdated. cheater87 said: It said it was not responding when shutting down a PC. I have a Server 2003 system that's set to manual and an XP machine where it's disabled (both services). I get the notifications for Firefox updates on both, so I doubt that it has anything to do with that. According to BlackViper, disabled is the default on XP SP3.
Acronym for Dynamic Data Exchange, an interprocess communication (IPC) system built into the Macintosh, Windows, and OS/2 operating systems. DDE enables two running applications to share the same data. For example, DDE makes it possible to insert a spreadsheet chart into a document created with a word processor. Whenever the spreadsheet data changes, the chart in the document changes accordingly.
Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) is a chemical compound formed by the loss of hydrogen chloride (dehydrohalogenation) from DDT, of which it is one of the more common breakdown products. The major exception is the excretion of DDE in breast milk, which delivers a substantial portion of the mother's DDE burden to the young animal or child. Along with accumulation over an organism's life, this stability leads to bioaccumulation in the environment which amplifies DDE’s negative effects.
In the Windows, OS/2, and (with third-party development kits) other operating systems, Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) allows information to be shared or communicated between programs. DDE is interprocess communication (IPC) that uses shared memory as a common exchange area and provides applications with a protocol or set of commands and message formats.