Fast Car Covers. “Fast Car” is one of the most covered Tracy Chapman song with “Baby Can I Hold You” and “Give Me One Reason”. In 2011, “Fast Car” knew a big revival, first with Justin Bieber singing a sneak preview of “Fast Car” for the Grammy Awards: Introduction to Fast Car. Soon after she performed Fast Car at the Nelson Mandela 70th Birthday Tribute concert on June 11, 1988, Chapman’s song began its rise on the US charts; it became a Number 6pop hit on the Billboard Hot 100 for the week ending August 27, 1988.
You are wrong about fast car. the lyrics were written by some one else then composed by tracy. the song was written by a homeless achiholic and is about tracys volvo that had broken down after a show in N.Y. in the early 90's. The song is about a relationship between the singer and her boyfriend. She thinks the relationship isn't working because of where they're at. she complains about her surroundings, hence the fast car needed to get away.
British rapper Example also samples the song in his I Need a Fast Car, which appeared on his mixtape We Didn't Invent the Remix. In 1991, British soul singer Gabrielle recorded a demo of her song  Dreams  that featured a sample of Fast Car. In April 2011, Michael Collings auditioned on Britain's Got Talent by singing a cover of Fast Car. As a result, the song peaked on number 4 in the UK Singles Chart in May 2011.
Fast Car is Tracy Chapman’s most popular song: written in 1986 it’s one of the last song she wrote before recording her first album, known under the name of The Debut Album, it’s also her biggest hit. Introduction to Fast Car. Soon after she performed Fast Car at the Nelson Mandela 70th Birthday Tribute concert on June 11, 1988, Chapman’s song began its rise on the US charts; it became a Number 6pop hit on the Billboard Hot 100 for the week ending August 27, 1988.
By Aurelie Aurélie. m on 28 may 2009. Videos Fast car is the song That Tracy chapman sang the most on stage during her. Career here are 4 differents live performances of the legendary. song Fast Car is the song that Tracy Chapman sang the most on stage during her career. Here are 4 differents live performances of the legendary song. Do enjoy!
Fast Car is track #10 on the album Tracy Chapman. It was written by Chapman, Tracy L. (No other information is available for this lyric-would you like to add something today?). 
Fast Car Lyrics © Tracy Chapman, 1986. In the original edition of Tracy Chapman’s debut album (LP / Cassette / CD), all lyrics were printed in English but also translated into French, Spanish, German and Italian. A very good way to have her message understood by everyone. Introduction to Fast Car. Soon after she performed Fast Car at the Nelson Mandela 70th Birthday Tribute concert on June 11, 1988, Chapman’s song began its rise on the US charts; it became a Number 6pop hit on the Billboard Hot 100 for the week ending August 27, 1988.
Fast Car  is a song by American singer-songwriter Tracy Chapman. It was released in April 1988 as the lead single from her self-titled debut album. In April 2011, Michael Collings auditioned on Britain's Got Talent by singing a cover of Fast Car. As a result, the song peaked on number 4 in the UK Singles Chart in May 2011.