Sometimes, these infections aren't associated with any symptoms but can still cause serious damage to the reproductive system. Common STDs caused by bacterial infections include: 1  Chlamydia is an infection in men and women caused by an organism called Chlamydia trachomatis. 1 Chlamydia is an infection in men and women caused by an organism called Chlamydia trachomatis. 2  Chlamydia increases the risk of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) in women. 3  Gonorrhea, also known as clap and the drip, is caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae. 4  Men and women can be infected
Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents, their multiplication, and the reaction of host tissues to these organisms and the toxins they produce. Infectious disease, also known as transmissible disease or communicable disease, is illness resulting from an infection. For example, if a cut occurs and is infected with bacteria, pain occurs at the site of the infection. Bacterial throat pain is often characterized by more pain on one side of the throat. An ear infection is more likely to be diagnosed as bacterial if the pain occurs in only one ear.
Certain bacteria commonly live on the skin of many people without causing harm. However, these bacteria can cause skin infections if they enter the body through cuts, open wounds, or other breaks in the skin. Symptoms may include redness, swelling, pain, or pus. 
Pus is a thick, whitish to yellowish material composed primarily of dead cells that generally forms as a by-product of bacterial infections. The inflammatory cells that participate in the body’s immune response at the site of an infection eventually degrade and die, creating the substance known as pus. One of the most common types of bacteria that cause pus formation is Staphylococcus aureus, although any bacterial infection may produce pus. When pus forms within enclosed spaces in the tissues, it causes abscesses. When it forms on the skin surface, it causes lumps known as pustules or pimples. Pus can also form when infections develop in internal organs, such as the bones, brain, lungs, and gastrointestinal tract.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a type of staph bacteria that is resistant to certain antibiotics called beta-lactams. These antibiotics include methicillin and other more common antibiotics such as oxacillin, penicillin, and amoxicillin. In the community, most MRSA infections are skin infections. Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Pseudomonas infection is caused by strains of bacteria found widely in the environment; the most common type causing infections in humans is called Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Serious Pseudomonas infections usually occur in people in the hospital and/or with weakened immune systems.
An infection that leads to the production of pus is called a purulent infection. When pus forms within enclosed spaces in the tissues, it causes abscesses. When it forms on the skin surface, it causes lumps known as pustules or pimples. Pus can also form when infections develop in internal organs, such as the bones, brain, lungs, and gastrointestinal tract.
Knowledge center. A human with an infection has another organism inside them which gets its sustenance (nourishment) from that person, it colonizes that person and reproduces inside them. The human with that organism (germ) inside is called the host, while the germ or pathogen is referred to as a parasitic organism. The normal growth of the bacterial flora in the intestine is not an infection, because the bacteria are not harming the host. An organism which colonizes and harms a host's health is often called a pathogen. Examples include: We all develop a wide range of infections, but fight them off rapidly.
Bacterial Skin Infections. Bacterial skin infections are usually caused by gram-positive strains of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus or other organisms. Common bacterial skin infections include: 1  Cellulitis causes a painful, red infection that is usually warm to the touch. 1 Chlamydia is an infection in men and women caused by an organism called Chlamydia trachomatis. 2  Chlamydia increases the risk of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) in women. 3  Gonorrhea, also known as clap and the drip, is caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae. 4  Men and women can be infected