Glycine (13, 14). Glycine is the simplest amino acid and is the only amino acid that is not optically active (it has no stereoisomers). This amino acid is essential for the biosynthesis of nucleic acids as well as of bile acids, porphyrins, creatine phosphate, and other amino acids.
Glycine is an example of such a type of amino acids. Some of the amino acids are not synthesized in our body and has to be supplied through diet regularly for proper metabolic activity. They are called as essential amino acids. Isoleucine is an example for essential amino acid.
Glycine is very evolutionarily stable at certain positions of some proteins (for example, in cytochrome c, myoglobin, and hemoglobin), because mutations that change it to an amino acid with a larger side chain could break the protein's structure. Most proteins contain only small quantities of glycine.
In the structure of glycine the central carbon atom is sp 3 hybridized with tetrahedral shape. To this carbon atom one carboxylic acid group, two hydrogen atoms and one amine group are attached. Hence, the structure of glycine shows that it contains both carboxylic acid and amine group in the same carbon atom. This is important category of amino acids called as $\alpha $-amino acids.
Two amino acid molecules, such as glycine and alanine shown here, can bond together using the carboxylic acid group of one and the amino group of the other by means of a dehydration reaction to form what is called a dipeptide.
Glycine is an amino acid, a building block for protein. It is not considered an “essential amino acid” because the body can make it from other chemicals. A typical diet contains about 2 grams of glycine daily. The primary sources are protein-rich foods including meat, fish, dairy, and legumes.
Tyr (-5). Phe (-5). Role in structure: Glycine is a very unique amino acid in that in contains a hydrogen as its side chain (rather than a carbon as is the case in all other amino acids). This means that there is much more conformational flexibility in glycine.