WEBER Genealogy. This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname WEBER. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull. Using the Daitch-Mokotoff Soundex Code we can obtain some variants of scripture of the same surname. Below you will find the variants of scripture we have in our database. They will be useful to find and to determine the WEBER meaning. We invite you to post your knowledge and familiar tradition about your surnames.
Weber Genealogy & History. Weber is a German name, meaning weaver, similar to the English versions Weaver, Webb and Webber. Derived from the Middle High German weber, meaning weaver, it is a name widespread in central and eastern Europe and the sixth most popular German surname. 
This article is about the surname Weber. For other uses, see Weber (disambiguation) . Weber (/ˈwɛbər/ , /ˈwiːbər/ or /ˈweɪbər/ ; German: [ˈveːbɐ]) is a surname of German origin, derived from the noun meaning  weaver . 1 Amy Weber (born 1970) is an American actress, model, film producer, and a former professional wrestling valet. 2  Anthony Weber (born 1987), French footballer. 3  Axel A. Weber (born 1957), German economist, president of the Deutsche Bundesbank since April 2004.
William Henry Weber (or Webber) was an editor of plays and secretary to Sir Walter Scott in Edinburgh in 1804. The first recorded spelling of the family name anywhere in the world is believed to be that of John le Webber. This was dated 1255, in the Fines Court Rolls of the county of Sussex, England, during the reign of King Henry III, 1216 - 1272. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.
This page or section lists people with the surname Weber. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link. 1 Amy Weber (born 1970) is an American actress, model, film producer, and a former professional wrestling valet. 2  Anthony Weber (born 1987), French footballer. 3  Axel A. Weber (born 1957), German economist, president of the Deutsche Bundesbank since April 2004.
German and Jewish (Ashkenazic): occupational name for a weaver, Middle High German weber, Wëber German, weber an agent derivative of ‘weben to’. WEAVE, JXE Ab this name is widespread throughout central and Eastern, europe being found for example as A, Czech, Polish, slovenian And hungarian. name Click on a circle in the chart to view Weber birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Weber Surname Origin. (Origin German) An occupational surname for a weaver. Surname Variations: Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857. There is more to Weber family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Weber family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know.
Click on a place to view Weber immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Weber families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Weber birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Early examples of the surname recordings include Heinricus Weber, given as being a burger of the city of Basel, Switzerland, in the year 1290, whilst Hensli Webermann, was a citizen of Freiburg, who is recorded in the charters of that German city in 1472. This was dated 1255, in the Fines Court Rolls of the county of Sussex, England, during the reign of King Henry III, 1216 - 1272. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.