The measles-mumps-rubella-varicella (MMRV) vaccine is a four-in-one vaccine that protects against measles, mumps, rubella (German measles) and chickenpox. Two doses of the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine containing vaccine (as either MMR or MMRV) are required for children to attend school in Ontario. Second dose: 4-6 years. The second dose of the chickenpox vaccine will be offered to children from 4 to 6 years of age in the form of the MMRV (measles-mumps-rubella-varicella) vaccine. Catch-up for children who missed their vaccination. Children who missed their first dose can receive it up until they are 11 years old.
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends a two-dose vaccine schedule for measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccines for children, with the first dose at age 12-15 months and the second at age 4-6 years. When the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines is administered at ages 48 months and older, use of MMRV vaccine generally is preferred over separate injections of MMR and varicella vaccines.
However, the overall risk of febrile seizures is very low for both options (about 8 out of every 10,000 children vaccinated with MMRV vaccine when they are 12-23 months old, and about 4 out of every 10,000 children vaccinated with the MMR and varicella vaccines at the same visit when they are 12-23 months old). When the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines is administered at ages 48 months and older, use of MMRV vaccine generally is preferred over separate injections of MMR and varicella vaccines.
On February 27, 2008, FDA approved a revised label for ProQuad, Merck's vaccine to protect against measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) and varicella (chickenpox), in children 12 months through 12 years of age. 
MMR vaccine is recommended routinely for all children at age 12 through 15 months, with a second dose at age 4 through 6 years. The second dose of MMR can be given as early as 4 weeks (28 days) after the first dose and be counted as a valid dose if both doses were given after the child's first birthday. Measles vaccine, given as MMR, may be effective if given within the first 3 days (72 hours) after exposure to measles. Immune globulin may be effective for as long as 6 days after exposure.
A second dose of the chickenpox (varicella) vaccine is now available for children born on or after January 1, 2000, who are at least 12 months to 11 years of age. This safe, effective booster will provide added protection against this highly contagious illness. Second dose: 4-6 years. The second dose of the chickenpox vaccine will be offered to children from 4 to 6 years of age in the form of the MMRV (measles-mumps-rubella-varicella) vaccine. Catch-up for children who missed their vaccination. Children who missed their first dose can receive it up until they are 11 years old.
But children can get the second dose up through 12 years as long as it is at least 3 months after the first dose. Children may also get these vaccines as 2 separate shots: MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) and varicella vaccines. 1 They happen less often when MMR and varicella vaccines are given at the same visit as separate shots (about 1 child in 2,500 who get these two vaccines), and rarely after a 2nd dose of MMRV. 2  Temporary low platelet count, which can cause a bleeding disorder (about 1 child out of 40,000).
Vaccines and Immunizations. ShareCompartir. For the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines at age 12-47 months, either MMR vaccine and varicella vaccine or MMRV vaccine may be used. When the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines is administered at ages 48 months and older, use of MMRV vaccine generally is preferred over separate injections of MMR and varicella vaccines.
Compared with use of MMR and varicella vaccines at the same visit, use of MMRV vaccine is associated with a higher risk for fever and febrile seizures 5–12 days after the first dose among children aged 12–23 months and approximately 1 additional febrile seizure for every 2,300–2,600 MMRV vaccine doses administered. 