Share this story. Cardiff's Millennium Stadium, the home of rugby in Wales and a host stadium for the upcoming 2015 World Cup, is to be renamed as part of a multimillion-pound deal. The stadium will be known as the Principality Stadium from January 2016 as part of a new ten year partnership between Principality Building Society and the Welsh Rugby Union.
The Millennium Stadium is located in Cardiff, the capital city of Wales. The stadium, constructed on a site previously occupied by National Stadium of Wales, was built to host the 1999 Rugby World Cup with Wales as the main host of the event. The stadium is owned by Millennium Stadium Plc, which is a subsidiary of Welsh Rugby Union and the Cardiff County Council, was designed by Bligh Lobb Sports Architecture (now known as Populous). It is the home stadium of the Wales National Rugby Union Team. The Millennium Stadium was built at a cost of $194.7m.
New name for Millennium Stadium after sponsorship deal. Cardiff's Millennium Stadium, the home of rugby in Wales and a host stadium for the upcoming 2015 World Cup, is to be renamed as part of a multimillion-pound deal. The stadium will be known as the Principality Stadium from January 2016 as part of a new ten year partnership between Principality Building Society and the Welsh Rugby Union.
A view of the Millennium Stadium GETTY IMAGES. Cardiff's 74,500 seater Millennium Stadium will be re-named from next year as part of a new sponsorship deal. The Welsh Rugby Union has agreed a 10-year partnership with the Principality Building Society for naming rights to the national stadium. Millennium Stadium in Cardiff to be re-named the 'Principality Stadium' as part of
The WRU today announced that the Millennium Stadium would be renamed the Principality Stadium after a new partnership deal with The Principality Building Society. This will be the first time the stadium has changed name since it was built in 1999. According to WalesOnline, the 10-year deal could be worth up to £15m. The ground will officially become The Principality Stadium on January 1, 2016, and will remain as the Millennium Stadium for the upcoming Rugby World Cup. The iconic stadium in Cardiff and home of Welsh rugby becomes the latest in an increasingly long line of rugby stadiums to be renamed after a sponsorship agreement.
The Millennium Stadium is owned by Millennium Stadium plc which is a subsidiary company of the Welsh Rugby Union (WRU). The stadium was designed by a team led by architects Bligh Lobb Sports Architecture. WS Atkins were the structural engineers, and the building contractor was Laing. The Millennium Stadium was first used for a major event on 26 June 1999, when Wales played South Africa in a rugby union friendly match before a test crowd of 29,000. Wales won the match 29–19: the first time they had ever beaten the Springboks.
Principality has agreed a 10-year deal for the naming rights to the Millennium Stadium. The Millennium Stadium will be renamed the Principality Stadium in a ground-breaking multi-million pound naming rights deal for the home of Welsh rugby. 
The Millennium Stadium (Welsh: Stadiwm y Mileniwm) is the national stadium of Wales, located in Cardiff. It is the home of the Wales national rugby union team and has also staged games of the Wales national football team. The Millennium Stadium was first used for a major event on 26 June 1999, when Wales played South Africa in a rugby union friendly match before a test crowd of 29,000. Wales won the match 29–19: the first time they had ever beaten the Springboks.
Millennium Stadium. Built to host the 1999 Rugby World Cup, the Millennium Stadium is the home of Welsh rugby, and has also hosted Welsh international football matches, the FA Cup final, Olympic football matches and several speedway events.
The Millennium Stadium dominates the Cardiff skyline. The Millennium Stadium will be renamed The Principality Stadium after the naming rights to the home of Welsh rugby in Cardiff were sold to the Principality Building Society. Here's everything you need to know about the deal to change the name of one of the world's most famous rugby stadiums. It will continue to be known as the Millennium Stadium during the Rugby World Cup, at which it will host six pool matches-including two Wales fixtures-and two quarter-finals. The deal with Principality will not start until after the tournament.