The fibers of the olfactory nerve are nonmedullated and unite into fasciculi that form a plexus under the mucous membrane and rise in grooves or canals in the ethmoid bone. The fibers pass into the skull and form synapses with the dendrites of the mitral cells. The area in which the olfactory nerves arise is situated in the most superior part of the mucous membrane that covers the superior nasal concha. olfactory system. includes the olfactory part of the nasal mucosa, the olfactory nerves and the olfactory bulbs of the cerebrum. olfactory tract. a band of white nerve fibers visible on the ventral surface of the brain running caudally from the olfactory bulbs.
The olfactory nerve is the shortest cranial nerve and is the nerve which transmits special sensory information, allowing us to have a sense of smell. It is one of two nerves that do not join with the brainstem, the other being the optic nerve. They then enter the cranial cavity through the cribiform plate of the ethmoid bone – the roof of the nasal cavity. Olfactory Bulb. Once in the cranial cavity, the fibres enter the olfactory bulb, which lies in the olfactory groove, within the anterior cranial fossa.
The olfactory nerve is sensory in nature and originates on the olfactory mucosa in the upper part of the nasal cavity. From the olfactory mucosa, the nerve (actually many small nerve fascicles) travels up through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone to reach the surface of the brain. The olfactory nerves consist of a collection of many sensory nerve fibers that extend from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulb, passing through the many openings of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, a sieve-like structure.
(Source). On the right you get a good view of the olfactory receptor neurons. These are typical bipolar neurons, with a single dendrite coming out one end and poking through the epithelium into your nasal cavity, a cell body, and then a LONG axon which joins up with others to become...your olfactory nerve. This place is full of little holes and looks kind of like a sponge. The holes allow the axons of your olfactory epithelium fibers to pass through, and then they synapse on to your olfactory BULB, which is the big bulb labeled in the cranial nerve drawing. Believe it or not, that bulb, which looks like a big feature in the human brain, is RIDICULOUSLY small. Seriously, look at this
olfactory nerve. the first cranial nerve made up of about 20 bundles and concerned with the sense of smell. The cell bodies are situated in the olfactory mucous membrane of the nose. Nerve fibers lead upward through openings in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone and connect with the cells of the olfactory bulb. olfactory system. includes the olfactory part of the nasal mucosa, the olfactory nerves and the olfactory bulbs of the cerebrum. olfactory tract. a band of white nerve fibers visible on the ventral surface of the brain running caudally from the olfactory bulbs.
The Olfactory Nerve is the first of the Twelve Cranial Nerves. It consists of both afferent and efferent sensory fibers. The word Afferent means toward the centre, as in from a peripheral area of a limb to the central nervous system. 1 They surpass the Submucosa and terminate on the Olfactory Mucosa (Stratified Squamous Non-keratinizing Epithelium) as Olfactory Cells, in the roof of the Nasal Cavity. 2  There is also a Secondary Efferent Ganglion that stems from the Olfactory Trigone and continues along the same path as the Primary Efferent Ganglion.
olfactory nerve. n. Any of numerous olfactory filaments in the olfactory portion of the nasal mucosa that enter the olfactory bulb, where they terminate in synaptic contact with mitral cells, tufted cells, and granule cells. Also called first cranial nerve. The fibers pass into the skull and form synapses with the dendrites of the mitral cells. The area in which the olfactory nerves arise is situated in the most superior part of the mucous membrane that covers the superior nasal concha.
Cranial nerves are the nerves that emerge directly from the brain (including the brainstem), in contrast to spinal nerves (which emerge from segments of the spinal cord). Cranial nerves exchange information between the brain and parts of the body, primarily to and from regions of the head and neck. Spinal nerves emerge sequentially from the spinal cord with the spinal nerve closest to the head (C1) emerging in the space above the first cervical vertebra. The cranial nerves emerge from the central nervous system above this level.
Pathways. The pathway for the efferent fibers is the following (from the Initiation in the brain to the termination in the periphery): 1  The Primary Efferent Nerve Fibre stems from the Anterior Commissure of the Corpus Callosum. 2  It passes through the Olfactory Tract. 1 They surpass the Submucosa and terminate on the Olfactory Mucosa (Stratified Squamous Non-keratinizing Epithelium) as Olfactory Cells, in the roof of the Nasal Cavity. 2  There is also a Secondary Efferent Ganglion that stems from the Olfactory Trigone and continues along the same path as the Primary Efferent Ganglion.