The Mandalorians (called Mando'ade in Mando'a, meaning children of Mandalore) were a warlike, nomadic group of clan-based people consisting of members from multiple species. Often, they served as mercenaries and bounty hunters. Originally, the Mandalorian clans were Taung from Coruscant, led by the warlord  Mandalore the First . Around 24,000 BBY they conquered a planet in the Outer Rim, which they named Mandalore after their leader.
Mandalorians are a group of warriors from several species in the Star Wars universe. They commonly act as mercenaries or bounty hunters. According to Star Wars Expanded Universe material, they are the cultural descendants of an extinct species called the Taung. A battle ensued, in which Revan killed the two Duros mercenaries, the Mandalorian soldier, the field marshal, and finally Sherruk himself. With the Mandalorians utterly exterminated in that sector of Dantooine, Revan collected the substantial bounty that had been placed on Sherruk's head.
In their early years, Mandalorian culture revolved around battle, with war being a source of honor and pride in their community. The leader of the Mandalorians was known as the Mand'alor, translating to Sole Ruler and was rendered as Mandalore in Basic. The year 3960 BBY would usher in the ultimate battle of the Mandalorian Wars, as Revan forced a confrontation with the Mandalorians in orbit over Malachor V. Drawing upon the dark side energies of Malachor, Revan faced off against Mandalore the Ultimate in single combat, slaying the Mand'alor.
The most commonly used symbol associated with Mandalorians, also known as the “Kyr’bes”. Mandalorian “Krybes” (unknown) is probably the most prolific symbol of the Mandalorians and also a topic of much conjecture. Its origins are obscure, and there are several camps on the origin of the symbol. Mandalorian fans can hope that some future reference book may touch upon the origins of this ancient Mandalorian symbol. The symbol of the Mandalorian Neo Crusaders is the first recorded use of the “skull” image.
A group of Mandalorian mercenaries. With the devastating end to the Mandalorian Wars, the Mandalorians were left without a leader and their Neo-Crusader army fragmented. While some Mandalorians returned home to the Mandalore sector, a number of embittered others turned to ruthless mercenary work. The year 3960 BBY would usher in the ultimate battle of the Mandalorian Wars, as Revan forced a confrontation with the Mandalorians in orbit over Malachor V. Drawing upon the dark side energies of Malachor, Revan faced off against Mandalore the Ultimate in single combat, slaying the Mand'alor.
The Mandalorian Mercs would like to ask you to spare your thoughts and prayers for Patrick Roberts, aka HombrePatrick of Oceanhawks clan and to his family and friends. Patrick is in critical condition after a being hit by a drunk driver last night. Sandhawk Clan-Mandalorian Mercs Australia & New Zealand. May 14 · Sydney, Australia ·. Happy 4th birthday to the sandhawk clan we have grown from just 3 members on this day, 4 years ago to the mighty force you see now.
Most Mandalorian mercenaries acted independently, although during his reign as Mand'alor, Jaster Mereel would lead his True Mandalorians as a mercenary army when not battling the Death Watch. Also, the Mandalorian Protectors acted as a mercenary army after Boba Fett assumed leadership of the Mandalorians. The year 3960 BBY would usher in the ultimate battle of the Mandalorian Wars, as Revan forced a confrontation with the Mandalorians in orbit over Malachor V. Drawing upon the dark side energies of Malachor, Revan faced off against Mandalore the Ultimate in single combat, slaying the Mand'alor.
(Fan Community). The Mandalorian Mercs Costume Club is the world's premier custom Mandalorian costume organization. With 35 chapters in 7 countries around the world, members of Mercs take part in a wide range of activites, including local and international conventions, charity events, and fan gatherings. Founded in March 2007, the Mercs grew rapidly from a core of 5 members to now over 350 across the globe.
During the New Sith Wars, the Mandalorians would break from what many perceived to be a long-standing alliance, and waged war against the Sith. During the first quarter of the New Sith Wars, one group of Mandalorians was approached by Jedi Master Murrtaggh. The year 3960 BBY would usher in the ultimate battle of the Mandalorian Wars, as Revan forced a confrontation with the Mandalorians in orbit over Malachor V. Drawing upon the dark side energies of Malachor, Revan faced off against Mandalore the Ultimate in single combat, slaying the Mand'alor.