The specific heat of water is 1 calorie/gram °C = 4.186 joule/gram °C which is higher than any other common substance. As a result, water plays a very important role in temperature regulation. The specific heat per gram for water is much higher than that for a metal, as described in the water-metal example. The specific heat is the amount of heat per unit mass required to raise the temperature by one degree Celsius. The relationship between heat and temperature change is usually expressed in the form shown below where c is the specific heat.
The molar heat capacity at constant pressure (C P) is the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 mole of the gas by 1 K if the pressure of the gas remains constant. The molar heat capacity at constant volume (C V) is the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 mole of the gas by 1 K if the volum
The symbol for the Universal Gas Constant is Ru= 8.314 J/mol.K (0.0831 bar dm3 mol-1 K-1). The Specific-Heat Capacity, C, is defined as the amount of heat required to raise the temperature by 1K per mole or per kg. The Specific Heat Capacity is measured and reported at constant pressure (Cp) or constant volume (Cv) conditions. For monoatomic gases Cp=2.5Ru J/mol.K and Cv=1.5Ru J/mol.K repectively. The ratio of the two specific heats is called the adiabatic ratio of the gas. At temperature t the heat content of water vapor is: hw = 2501 + 1.84 t. Notice that water vapor, once generated, also requires more heat than dry air to raise its temperature further: 1.84 kJ/kg.C against about 1 k J/kg.C for dry air.
Answers. Best Answer: Apparently the value of the specific heat capacity of water vapour changes depending on the temperature: http://www.engineeringtoolbox.com/water-... Remember to convert those temperatures in that list to Celsius first. Source(s): Ritchie Valens · 4 years ago.
(a) The specific heat capacity at constant volume (c v) is defined as the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 kg of the gas by 1 K if the volume of the gas remains constant. The molar heat capacity at constant volume (C V) is the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 mole
(b) The specific heat capacity at constant pressure (c p) is defined as the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 kg of the gas by 1 K if the pressure of the gas remains constant. The molar heat capacity at constant volume (C V) is the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 mole of the gas by 1 K if the volum
In such cases, the specific heat capacity is a fraction of the maximum. As the temperature approaches absolute zero, the specific heat capacity of a system approaches zero, due to loss of available degrees of freedom. The heat capacity per atom for nitrogen (5/2 per mole molecules = 5/4 per mole atoms) is therefore less than for a monatomic gas (3/2 per mole molecules or atoms), so long as the temperature remains low enough that no vibrational degrees of freedom are activated.
(A) Calculate the specific heat capacity at constant volume of water vapor, assuming the nonlinear tri-atomic molecules has three translational and three rotational degree of freedom and that vibrational motion does not contribute. The molar mass of water is 18 g/mol. (B) The actual specific heat capacity of water vapor at low pressure is about 2000 J/kg*K. Compare this with your calculation and comment on the actual role of vibrational motion.
Value of specific heat capacity of water vapor at constant volume? Temperature changes from 540 C to 358 C and the pressure changes from 60 bar to 20 bar. Best Answer: Apparently the value of the specific heat capacity of water vapour changes depending on the temperature: http://www.engineeringtoolbox.com/water-... Remember to convert those temperatures in that list to Celsius first. Source(s): Ritchie Valens · 4 years ago.