An average adult has 5 to 6 quarts (4.7 to 5.6 liters) of blood, which is made up of plasma, red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets. In addition to blood, the circulatory system moves lymph, which is a clear fluid that helps rid the body of unwanted material. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.
The circulatory system also works with the help of other body systems. It works in coordination with respiratory system as well as digestive system to supply nutrients and oxygen to different body parts. The messenger chemicals or hormones present in the blood are secreted by the endocrine system. Main Image: Proper functioning of the circulatory system is very important as it helps in reaching all the nutrients and blood oxygen to every part of the body. There are lot of components and organs involved which complete the whole process of circulation.
The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta. Endocrine System. The endocrine system is made up of a group of glands that produce the body's long-distance messengers, or hormones. Hormones are chemicals that control body functions, such as metabolism, growth, and sexual development.
It is also the main cooling as well as transportation system of the body. The RBCs carry nutrients and oxygen to the cells while the white blood cells in the circulatory system act as cleaners and start functioning whenever we are exposed to cold, infection or cut. Main Image: Proper functioning of the circulatory system is very important as it helps in reaching all the nutrients and blood oxygen to every part of the body. There are lot of components and organs involved which complete the whole process of circulation.
Body systems. Our bodies consist of a number of biological systems that carry out specific functions necessary for everyday living. The job of the circulatory system is to move blood, nutrients, oxygen, carbon dioxide, and hormones, around the body. It consists of the heart, blood, blood vessels,arteries and veins. These hormones, in turn, travel to different tissues and regulate various bodily functions, such as metabolism, growth and sexual function. The immune system is the body's defense against bacteria, viruses and other pathogens that may be harmful.
The Human circulatory system is an organ system that is mainly concerned with transportation of nutrients, gases, blood cells and hormones throughout the body, through a network of blood vessels. Main Image: Proper functioning of the circulatory system is very important as it helps in reaching all the nutrients and blood oxygen to every part of the body. There are lot of components and organs involved which complete the whole process of circulation.
The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.
Open circulatory systems (evolved in insects, mollusks and other invertebrates) pump blood into a hemocoel with the blood diffusing back to the circulatory system between cells. Blood is pumped by a heart into the body cavities, where tissues are surrounded by the blood. The resulting blood flow is sluggish. Figure 1. Structures that serve some of the functions of the circulatory system in animals that lack the system. Image from Purves et al., Life: The Science of Biology, 4th Edition, by Sinauer Associates (www.sinauer.com) and WH Freeman (www.whfreeman.com), used with permission.
The circulatory system is a vast network of organs and vessels that is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, hormones, oxygen and other gases to and from cells. The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.