The most you can deduct for your contributions to you or your employee's SEP-IRA is the lesser of the following amounts. In 2015, the amounts in (2) above are $265,000 and $53,000, respectively. 1  Your contributions (including any excess contributions carryover). For this reason, you determine the deduction for contributions to your own SEP-IRA indirectly by reducing the contribution rate called for in your plan. To do this, use the Rate Table for Self-Employed or the Rate Worksheet for Self-Employed, whichever is appropriate for your plan's contribution rate, in chapter 5.
A business owner can create SEP accounts for herself and for each eligible employee. Only the employer can contribute to an SEP IRA. The contributions are tax-deductible to the employer and tax-deferred for the employees, up to the annual limits. In 2013, those limits are 25 percent of the employee’s compensation or $51,000, whichever is less.
SEP Plan FAQs. A Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) plan provides business owners with a simplified method to contribute toward their employees’ retirement as well as their own retirement savings. Contributions are made to an Individual Retirement Account or Annuity (IRA) set up for each plan participant (a SEP-IRA). A SEP-IRA account is a traditional IRA and follows the same investment, distribution, and rollover rules as traditional IRAs. See the IRA FAQs.
Where to deduct your SEP-IRA contribution: 1  Deduct your own contribution on Form 1040, line 28 (tax year 2008). 2  Deduct contributions you make on their behalf employees on Schedule C, line 19 (or Schedule F for an unincorporated farming business). You're a Schedule C filer. 1  The SEP plan contribution rate is 10%. 2  Schedule C shows a net profit of $80,000. 3  Your deduction for one-half of your self-employment tax (deducted on Form 1040, line 27) is $5,652.
SEP contributions are tax deductible to the employer, and all earnings are tax deferred for employees. Minimal administrative costs. Employers sponsoring SEP plans are not required to file annual plan returns, unlike employers sponsoring qualified pension or profit sharing plans. 
How much of the SEP contributions are deductible? The most you can deduct on your business’s tax return for contributions to your employees’ SEP-IRAs is the lesser of your contributions or 25% of compensation. (Compensation considered for each employee is limited and subject to annual cost-of-living adjustments). The same limits on contributions made to employees’ SEP-IRAs also apply to contributions if you are self-employed. However, special rules apply when figuring the maximum deductible contribution.
Advantages of a SEP. 1  Contributions to a SEP are tax deductible and your business pays no taxes on the earnings on the investments. 2  You are not locked into making contributions every year. 3  In fact, you decide each year whether, and how much, to contribute to your employees’ SEP-IRAs. 
An SEP is a retirement plan established by employers, including self-employed individuals (sole proprietorships or partnerships). The SEP is an IRA-based plan to which employers may make tax-deductible contributions on behalf of eligible employees, including the business owner. The employer is allowed a tax deduction for plan contributions, which are made to each eligible employee's SEP IRA on a discretionary basis. Because the funding vehicle for an SEP plan is a Traditional IRA, SEP contributions, once deposited, become Traditional IRA assets and are subject to many of the Traditional IRA rules, including the following: 1  Distribution rules. 2  Investment rules. 3  Contribution and deduction rules for Traditional IRA contributions.
SEP IRA contribution limits. 2015 SEP IRA contribution limit is $53,000 (2014 limit is $52,000). Contributions to a SEP IRA are generally 100% tax deductible and investment earnings in a SEP IRA grow taxed deferred. Withdrawals after age 59 ½ are taxed as ordinary income. Withdrawals prior to age 59 ½ may incur a 10% IRS penalty as well as income taxes. In this situation, the annual SEP IRA contribution can be between 0% to 25% of the owner's W-2 salary up to the SEP IRA contribution limit. SEP IRA contributions are generally 100% tax deductible as a business expense. Business owner receives compensation as personal income.