A Spanish judge issued international arrest warrants Monday for China's former President Jiang Zemin and former Prime Minister Li Peng for alleged genocide against the people of Tibet, Spain's National Court in Madrid said. 
For President Liu Shaoqi, he was also the first Vice Chairman of the Communist Party of China, ranked second in the Communist Party of China, behind Chairman Mao Zedong. For President Li Xiannian, he was also the 5th ranked member of the Politburo Standing Committee, after CPC General Secretary and Premier. As Chairman of the Communist Party of China, Mao Zedong was elected State Chairman at the founding session of the National People's Congress. At the 2nd NPC in 1959, Mao was succeeded by Liu Shaoqi, first Vice Chairman of the Communist Party, in the position.
The President of the Republic of China (Chinese: 中華民國總統; pinyin: Zhōnghua Zhōnghuá Minguo) mínguó zǒngtǒng is the head of state Of the Republic of china-and-commander in chief Of the Republic Of China, armed forces now commonly Known. as taiwan At the funeral of Pope John Paul II, President Chen Shui-bian (far left), whom the Holy See recognized as the head of state of China, was seated in the front row (in French alphabetical order) beside the first lady and president of Brazil.
Media caption The BBC's Damian Grammaticas: Xi Jinping says he is a leader with a dream-the China dream. Leaders in Beijing have confirmed Xi Jinping as president, completing China's 10-yearly transition of power. Mr Xi, appointed to the Communist Party's top post in November, replaces Hu Jintao, who is stepping down
Hu Jintao, President of China. Hu Jintao, a native of Jixi, Anhui Province, was born in December 1942. He joined the Communist Party of China (CPC) in April 1964 and began to work in July 1965 after he graduated from the Water Conservancy Engineering Department of Tsinghua University, majored in hub hydropower stations. 
Sun Yat-sen was the leader of the new government and poised to become the first president of China. He offered Yuan the office in exchange for his support. So it was that on February 13th 1912, the day after the Qing dynasty officially ended, Yuan was sworn in as the president of the Republic of China. 
President Richard Nixon was the first United States President to  visit the People's Republic of China on February 21, 1972. . 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Presidential Portraits: Pictures of Barack Obama President Barack Obama is known for being photogenic. The first president of the Republic of China was? Here's the information on the first president of China: On 1 January 1912, Sun Yat-sen officially proclaimed the establishment of the Republic of China, and became provisional … president. Note: I added a hyperlink, in case more people wanted to know about Sun Yat-sen.
To avoid confusion, all the names on this list follow the Eastern order convention (family name first, personal name second) for consistency. This is a list of the Presidents and other heads of state of the People's Republic of China. The office, called 国家主席 (Guojiā Guójiā) zhǔxi Zhǔxí, in chinese was created in 1954 when The 1st constitution consolidated the system of government In'the People s Republic. Of china at, the time the title was Translated into English As. state chairman
For President Yang Shangkun, he was not a member of Politburo Standing Committee, but he ranked third after General Secretary Zhao Ziyang and Deng Xiaoping. Since Jiang Zemin, the President is also the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, ranking first in Party and State. As Chairman of the Communist Party of China, Mao Zedong was elected State Chairman at the founding session of the National People's Congress. At the 2nd NPC in 1959, Mao was succeeded by Liu Shaoqi, first Vice Chairman of the Communist Party, in the position.