First, you have to know a little about statistics. I assume that the grades are drawn from a normal (bell-curve) distribution. These distributions have an average (also called a mean) and a standard deviation (stdev), which measures how wide the distribution spreads out.
One might therefore actually convert the scores into standard deviations (this is called “normalizing). Keeping our example of two scores of 13, in fourth grade this would be equivalent to a z-score of 1.0, since it is one standard deviation above the mean.
1 I calculate the average and standard deviation for the homework total grade (dropping the lowest HW score). 2  I calculate your z-score for your homework grade, multiply it by 0.5 (it is weighted as 50% of your grade) and add it to your total z-score.
Normal Distribution and z-scores. mean: the average obtained by dividing the sum of the data by the number of data in the set. Given a set of data, {x 1, x 2, x 3, ..., x n }, you can find the mean, , using the following formula: standard deviation: the extent to which data differs from the mean.
The standard deviation can be larger than the mean. The range of numbers has to be large for this to occur. One such sample is {0, 0, 1, 15, 20}, where = 7.2 and s 8.6. If 5 were added to each number in a set of data, the mean would increase by 5 and the standard deviation would remain the same.
To calculate the variance follow these steps: 1  Work out the Mean (the simple average of the numbers). 2  Then for each number: subtract the Mean and square the result (the squared difference). 3  Then work out the average of those squared differences.
What is really needed is the distance from each grade to the mean not the difference. You could take the absolute value of each difference and then calculate the mean. This is called the mean deviation, i.e. mean deviation = , where n is the number of students in the class. For class 1 this is 64/5 = 12.8. Another way to deal with the negative differences is to square each difference before adding.
The mean is the class average and the standard deviation measures how wide the grade distribution spreads out. A z-score of 0 means you're at the exact class average. A z-score of 1 means you are one standard deviation above the class average; that's about the 84% percentile.