By Nicholas Wells. In the world of intellectual property—specifically copyright—moral rights are a special set of rights that are owned by the author or creator of a work by virtue of their role as the author or creator. Lawyer-assisted, $ 295 fixed-fee copyright applications. The economic rights let someone sell access to a creative work, or otherwise exploit it for profit. The moral rights let someone control how a creative work is used in non-economic ways. There are two major moral rights under the U.S. Copyright Act.
The Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990 is the clearest application of moral rights in U.S. law. VARA provides moral rights protections to visual creative works such as photographs, paintings, drawings and sculpture. The works must be of recognized stature and exist as a single copy or in limited production. The category of moral rights is not as well-defined in law as intellectual property rights. Moral rights restrict uses of an author's work that would adversely affect the reputation of a living author.
Different Types of Rights. Most national copyright laws recognize two different types of rights within copyright: Moral rights and economic rights. Moral rights refer to the idea that a copyrighted work is an expression of the personality and humanity of its author or creator. Copyright is a form of Intellectual Property, along with trademarks and patents in all countries, and other creations (such as trade secrets, sui generis database rights, rights of publicity and the like) that may vary from country to country.
Both international and U.S. copyright laws, however, also provide for “moral rights”. The purpose of economic rights are to provide some money – payment for rights in copyright – to the author/copyright owner. The purpose of moral rights is to protect the personality or reputation of an author (and not necessarily the owner) of a copyright-protected work. VARA gives visual artists the right to claim authorship in their work, and to prevent the use of their name in association with a work. In addition, artists are granted the right to prevent the intentional distortion, mutilation or other objectionable modification of their works.
Moral Rights in Works of Visual Art in the U.S. When we refer to copyright law in the U.S., we are generally referring to the economic rights in copyright such as reproduction and public performance. VARA gives visual artists the right to claim authorship in their work, and to prevent the use of their name in association with a work. In addition, artists are granted the right to prevent the intentional distortion, mutilation or other objectionable modification of their works.
The author of a work has moral rights in relation to that work, even if the author is not the owner of the copyright in the work. Performers in a live or recorded performance are considered to be authors of their performances and have moral rights in relation to the performance. There is, however, no moral rights infringement if: 1  the author has consented to the action or omission that would otherwise infringe moral rights; or. 2  the defence of reasonableness or an exception applies.
Copyright laws also protect the moral rights of the author. The category of moral rights is not as well-defined in law as intellectual property rights. Moral rights restrict uses of an author's work that would adversely affect the reputation of a living author.
Copyright is a form of intellectual property, applicable to certain forms of creative work. Under US copyright law, legal protection attaches only to fixed representations in a tangible medium. Copyright is a legal right created by the law of a country that grants the creator of an original work exclusive rights for its use and distribution. This is usually only for a limited time. The exclusive rights are not absolute but limited by limitations and exceptions to copyright law, including fair use
The law chiefly defines the rights of authors known as intellectual property rights -- that is, the creative work is the property of the author, and others cannot use it without the author's permission. Copyright law also includes a category of rights known as moral rights, which protect the reputation of the author. The category of moral rights is not as well-defined in law as intellectual property rights. Moral rights restrict uses of an author's work that would adversely affect the reputation of a living author.