The name may be derived from two elements in Irish: the first, os, means deer; the second element, cara, means friend. The name is borne by a character in Irish mythology — Oscar, grandson of Fionn Mac Cumhail. The name was popularised in the 18th century by James Macpherson, creator of 'Ossianic poetry'. The name was given to more than a half-dozen members of Scandinavian royal houses. The given name Oscar does also derive from the Old English Ōsgār, which is of an entirely different origin (from two Old English elements meaning god and spear).
Oscar or Oskar is a masculine given name derived from the Irish language. The name was given to more than a half-dozen members of Scandinavian royal houses. The given name Oscar does also derive from the Old English Ōsgār, which is of an entirely different origin (from two Old English elements meaning god and spear).
Meanings and history of the name Oscar : | Edit. Oscar (Irish) possibly from the Gaelic phrase os cara, meaning friend of the deer. James Macpherson used the name in his Ossianic poems. Napoleon, an admirer of those works, imposed it on his little French godson, who ascended the throne of Sweden as Oscar I (or Oskar I). derived from a Norman baronial name taken from a French place-name meaning golden city.. Others think it is merely an invention of the novelist Fanny Burney, who used it for the hero in her novel Evelina (1778).
The origin of the name Oscar is disputed. One biography of Bette Davis claims that she named the Oscar after her first husband, band leader Harmon Oscar Nelson; one of the earliest mentions in print of the term Oscar dates back to a Time magazine article about the 1934 6th Academy Awards. As of the 87th Academy Awards ceremony held on February 22, 2015, a total of 2,947 Oscars have been awarded since the inception of the award in 1929.
The name Oscar is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Oscar is: Divine spear. American Meaning: The name Oscar is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Oscar is: Divine spear. Celtic Meaning: The name Oscar is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Oscar is: Jumping fighter. English Meaning: The name Oscar is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Oscar is: Divine spear; God's
The Academy Awards or The Oscars is an annual American awards ceremony honoring cinematic achievements in the film industry. The various category winners are awarded a copy of a statuette, officially the Academy Award of Merit, which is better known by its nickname Oscar. As of the 87th Academy Awards ceremony held on February 22, 2015, a total of 2,947 Oscars have been awarded since the inception of the award in 1929.
Origin of the name Oscar: derived from a Norman baronial name taken from a French place-name meaning golden city.. Others think it is merely an invention of the novelist Fanny Burney, who used it for the hero in her novel Evelina (1778). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Behind the Name: Meaning, Origin and History of the Name Oscar. Academy Awards-Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Oscar (given name) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Oscar History-Oscar Awards History, History & Origin of Academy ... Oscar History-The Oscars 2015 News, Blogs & Articles | Academy ...
Oscar /os-car/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced OS-ker. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Oscar is spear of the gods. Also possibly from the Gaelic phrase os cara, meaning friend of the deer. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Oscar and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Oscar and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 