Noun. 1. protozoal infection-any infection caused by a protozoan. malaria-an infective disease caused by sporozoan parasites that are transmitted through the bite of an infected Anopheles mosquito; marked by paroxysms of chills and fever. 
Protozoa. Protozoa are microscopic, one-celled organisms that can be free-living or parasitic in nature. They are able to multiply in humans, which contributes to their survival and also permits serious infections to develop from just a single organism. Protozoa that live in the blood or tissue of humans are transmitted to other humans by an arthropod vector (for example, through the bite of a mosquito or sand fly). Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan. A microscope is necessary to view this parasite. Credit CDC
Primary Cause of Protozoan infections. The primary cause of Protozoan infections is the result: 1  of transmission of an infectious disease. 2  Some subtypes of this disease are contagious-spread easily between people, while other subtypes are infectious-transmitted by a pathogenic organism. 
African Sleeping Sickness. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness. There are four main groups of protozoa that cause infection in humans. They have been grouped according to how they move: the sarcodina (ameba), mastigophora (flagellates), ciliophora (ciliates) and the Sporozoa.
Protozoan infections are parasitic diseases caused by organisms formerly classified in the Kingdom Protozoa. They include organisms classified in Amoebozoa, Excavata, and Chromalveolata. Examples include Entamoeba histolytica, Plasmodium (some of which cause malaria), and Giardia lamblia. Trypanosoma brucei, transmitted by the tsetse fly and the cause of African sleeping sickness, is another example.
A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites. Protozoa that live in the blood or tissue of humans are transmitted to other humans by an arthropod vector (for example, through the bite of a mosquito or sand fly). Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan. A microscope is necessary to view this parasite. Credit CDC
Protozoan infections: A condition which is characterized by an infection caused by protozoans. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Protozoan infections is available below. Medical research articles related to Protozoan infections include: 1  Trichomoniasis (Follow-up). 2  Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma (Treatment). 3  Trichomoniasis (Diagnosis). 4  Sarcoidosis (Diagnosis). 5  Trichomoniasis
3. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness. There are four main groups of protozoa that cause infection in humans. They have been grouped according to how they move: the sarcodina (ameba), mastigophora (flagellates), ciliophora (ciliates) and the Sporozoa.
Single-celled parasites living and multiplying in the body are referred to as protozoan infections. The general term for these parasites is protozoa. Protozoa enter the body through the mouth or skin. Protozoa that enter through the mouth usually do so through unclean water or food. Protozoa that enter through the skin usually do so through an insect bite.