All server rooms I've seen usually are between 20°C and 25°C but from experience I've noticed hardware is more sensitive to variations more than a given temperature. I've often seen hardware fail after a bump of, say 4-5°C, even if it is from 20 to 25. So stability is a key, as well as air flow of course. ...nudging the thermostat higher may also leave less time to recover from a cooling failure, and is only appropriate for companies with a strong understanding of the cooling conditions in their facility. Recommendations on server room temperature vary greatly.
Among those surveyed, 7 percent indicated that they kept their data center at 75 degrees F or hotter, according to Computerworld. In comparison, only 3 percent of those polled last year maintained a server room temperature at this level. Explaining the significance of a rising average server room temperature. Data center operators interested in making facilities hotter should use state-of-the-art temperature monitoring equipment to oversee the server room at all times and make sure internal temperatures do not spike. product categories.
1 As a result temperature / airflow sensors are recommended near each unit to get early failure detection. 2  Humidity in server rooms should be between 40% and 60% rH. 3  Too dry will result in the build up of static electricity on the systems. 1 Humidity in server rooms should be between 40% and 60% rH. 2  Too dry will result in the build up of static electricity on the systems. 3  Too humid and corrosion will start slowly damaging your equipment resulting in permanent equipment failures.
The temperature for our server room now is around 27 to 28 degree Celsius. Anyway, to resolve this, I used to switch on aircond A for 1st 2 hours, airconds A&B for next 2 hours, and aircond B for next 2 hours. Ideal is about 68 Degrees Fahrenheit and between 40% – 60% humidity. **********************. There is a very useful page that discusses this very subject. The numbers on the page support the answers given so far. There is also information on that page about how to maintain that temp.
Rethinking ideal temperatures for server rooms. The vast majority of data center operators could save themselves a bundle on their annual energy bills by turning up the temperature, as experts told Computer Weekly that the average server room is often colder than it needs to be. Computer Weekly reported that not only can some data centers be kept at temperatures as high as 35 degrees C (or 95 degrees C), but critical infrastructure can actually be damaged if the server room is colder than 16 degrees C (about 61 degrees F).
General recommendations suggest that you should not go below 10°C (50°F) or above 28°C (82°F). Although this seems a wide range these are the extremes and it is far more common to keep the ambient temperature around 20-21°C (68-71°F). ...nudging the thermostat higher may also leave less time to recover from a cooling failure, and is only appropriate for companies with a strong understanding of the cooling conditions in their facility. Recommendations on server room temperature vary greatly.
NB: It is important to note there are a lot more factors to consider in a server/data room than just the temperature, air flow & humidity for example are also important concerns. ...nudging the thermostat higher may also leave less time to recover from a cooling failure, and is only appropriate for companies with a strong understanding of the cooling conditions in their facility. Recommendations on server room temperature vary greatly.
RE: server room temperature. Don't forget that even if he wants the temp to be 86 degrees, that he'll need to be pumping 71 degree or lower air into the front of the servers in order to achieve 86 out the back. Guys like this don't think ahead. Play his game. Measure at the back of the server, not the front. I know that he must set server room temperature to 30 degree Celsius if i cannot give him any proof or standart of this. i know that the server may burn out if they all run under 30 degree Celsius. If this happens, he must fxxk me why I set the room temperature to 30 degree Celsius(in fact, he call me to do this).
RE: server room temperature. The cooler the better, but you want at least 65 degrees faranheit (or lower). What's more important is ventilation, the servers need to be at least 3 feet away from the wall to properly exhaust internal heat, as they suck in air from the front. I know that he must set server room temperature to 30 degree Celsius if i cannot give him any proof or standart of this. i know that the server may burn out if they all run under 30 degree Celsius. If this happens, he must fxxk me why I set the room temperature to 30 degree Celsius(in fact, he call me to do this).