Stoli Elit. Stoli Elit is a noticeably smoother version of the original clear vodka produced by Stolichnaya. This bottling is for the vodka connoisseur who enjoys sipping it well-chilled or mixes it in transparent cocktails like the Vodka Martini. This bottle of Stolichnaya is a great example of what to expect from good vodka from Russia and for around $25 a bottle it's still affordable.
Stolichnaya Elit is a good vodka. It takes all the good characteristics of Stoli and refines away all the bad. That said, I can find no reason Solti Elit should cost as much as it does. It would fit perfectly in the same price bracket as the ultra premium brands like 360, Chopin, Grey Goose, X Rated, and the rest. No Rating. Stoli Elit is intended to be a non mixing vodka. It should be taken straight up, after the bottle and the shot glasses have been in the freezer for a long period. If you are mixing it with OJ or red bull, I agree with you. You are better off with Grey Goose or Absolut and save yourself 50% of the price.
The Stolichnaya vodka made in Russia for the local market is owned by a state-­‐ controlled entity. SPI Group is the owner of the Stolichnaya brand in 167 countries, including the U.S., but we do not own the brand in Russia. The Stolichnaya vodka made in Russia for the local market is owned by a state-­‐controlled entity.
Stolichnaya (Russian: столи́чная, also known as Stoli) is a vodka made of wheat and rye grain. Fermentation of Stolichnaya starts with wheat and rye grains and artesian water. The fermentation takes about 60 hours. Once fermentation is complete the resulting liquid is distilled three times to a strength of 96.4% alcohol by volume. This spirit is then diluted to bottling strength with more artesian well water.
Stoli Group USA is the North American subsidiary of SPI Group and distributes Stolichnaya Premium vodka, Stoli Premium Flavors, Super-­‐Premium vodka Stoli Gold, and ultra-­‐premium vodka elit by Stolichnaya. Outside of the US, Stolichnaya is distributed by a variety of regional companies. SPI Group is the owner of the Stolichnaya brand in 167 countries, including the U.S., but we do not own the brand in Russia. The Stolichnaya vodka made in Russia for the local market is owned by a state-­‐controlled entity.
Price. This bottle of Stolichnaya Elit costs $60, making it an ultra-premium bottle. Ultra-premium bottles are often made of the finest ingredients and are generally reserved for sipping. While this is priced as an ultra-premium bottle, it has performed poorly at spirits competitions. By: Snowflake | 5 / 5 | 2 years ago. Stoli Elit seems to be on every best vodka list you can find on the internet, so I finally gave in one day in the liquor store and purchased a bottle ($60 for a 750ml that wasn't scotch was hard to stomach but I later found out was well worth it).
Production process [edit]. Fermentation of Stolichnaya starts with wheat and rye grains and artesian water. The fermentation takes about 60 hours. Once fermentation is complete the resulting liquid is distilled three times to a strength of 96.4% alcohol by volume. This spirit is then diluted to bottling strength with more artesian well water.
One of the most popular Vodkas in the World is Russian premium Vodka – Stolichnaya which is made of rye grains and wheat and unique artesian water. Also it is filtered through sand, quartz, charcoal and with the help of modern high technology. 
Stolichnaya-or more popularly Stoli - is one of the most popular vodka brands on the market today. This is good because the majority of their vodka line up is pretty good and affordable, so when you're in doubt you can almost always rely on a bottle of Stoli being at the liquor store. This bottle of Stolichnaya is a great example of what to expect from good vodka from Russia and for around $25 a bottle it's still affordable.
Showing 1 - 3 of 3 reviews. By: Snowflake | 5 / 5 | 2 years ago. Stoli Elit seems to be on every best vodka list you can find on the internet, so I finally gave in one day in the liquor store and purchased a bottle ($60 for a 750ml that wasn't scotch was hard to stomach but I later found out was well worth it).