Only in renal disorders will creatinine be abnormally elevated. Normal levels of BUN are between 10 to 20 mg/dL for an adult and 5 to 18 mg/dL for a child. Normal creatinine levels are between .5 to 1.1 mg/dL for an adult female and .6 to 1.2 mg/dL for an adult male. Creatinine levels are lower in young children and the elderly as a result of reduced muscle mass. As with creatinine, creatinine clearance is slightly lower in children and the elderly. The normal adult male can expect a range between 107 to 139 mL/min and the adult female between 87 to 107 mL/min.
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. 
For this reason, BUN and creatinine are used together to measure kidney function. If kidney function begins to decline, BUN and creatinine rise. A normal creatinine depends on muscle mass and age. In general, a normal creatine is 0.5 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). A normal BUN is 7 to 20 mg/dL. Remember that different laboratories use different testing equipment, and may have slightly different ranges for normal.
Normal levels. Normal levels of BUN are between 10 to 20 mg/dL for an adult and 5 to 18 mg/dL for a child. Normal creatinine levels are between .5 to 1.1 mg/dL for an adult female and .6 to 1.2 mg/dL for an adult male. Creatinine levels are lower in young children and the elderly as a result of reduced muscle mass. As with creatinine, creatinine clearance is slightly lower in children and the elderly. The normal adult male can expect a range between 107 to 139 mL/min and the adult female between 87 to 107 mL/min.
Creatinine and BUN levels are important indexes to measure how well kidneys are functioning.If creatinine and BUN levels keep higher than normal for a long time, it may prove that your kidneys are not working well. In general,the normal BUN level ranges from 7 to 20mg/dL(2.5 to 7.1mmol/L).However, the normal BUN levels may vary with the lab, and your age. Urea nitrogen levels tend to increase with age. Infants have lower levels than other people do, and the range in children varies.
Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) measures the amount of urea nitrogen in bloodstream. Urea is formed in liver as the end product of protein metabolism and digestion. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females. Generally, a high blood urea nitrogen level means that the kidneys are not performing well, particularly if the result is above 50mg/dl
Normal levels of creatinine and BUN. Te normal range for creatinine in the blood may be 0.6 to 1.3 milligrams per deciliter (53 to 115 micromoles per liter), although this can vary from lab to lab, between men and women, and by age. Since men usually have high larger muscle mass, the amount of creatinine in the blood is often higher than women. In general,the normal BUN level ranges from 7 to 20mg/dL(2.5 to 7.1mmol/L).However, the normal BUN levels may vary with the lab, and your age. Urea nitrogen levels tend to increase with age. Infants have lower levels than other people do, and the range in children varies.
The normal range of urea nitrogen in blood or serum is 5 to 20 mg/dl, or 1.8 to 7.1 mmol urea per liter. The range is wide because of normal variations due to protein intake, endogenous protein catabolism, state of hydration, hepatic urea synthesis, and renal urea excretion. In medicine, the BUN-to-creatinine ratio is the ratio of two serum laboratory values, the blood urea nitrogen (BUN) (mg/dL) and serum creatinine (mg/dL) (Cr).
The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impaired. The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease.