For example, if the superblock of a partition, /var, becomes corrupt then the file system in question (/var) cannot be mounted by the operating system. Commonly in this event fsck is run and will automatically select an alternate, backup copy of the superblock and attempt to recover the file system. When Linux opens a file, it also creates a file object, which holds data about where the file is stored and what processes are using it. The file object (but not the file data itself) is thrown away when the file is closed. Inode. An inode (short for index node) is a bunch of attributes about a file that Linux stores.
The Unix file system (UFS; also called the Berkeley Fast File System, the BSD Fast File System or FFS) is a file system used by many Unix and Unix-like operating systems. It is a distant descendant of the original filesystem used by Version 7 Unix. 
Blocks are used for –. 1. To store user data. 2. Some blocks used for to store file system’s metadata. (Metadata is kind of structure of your file system and it contents superblock, indoes and directories). Superblock – Each of your filesystem has a superblock. File system like ext2. ext3 etc
The superblock is essentially file system metadata and defines the file system type, size, status, and information about other metadata structures (metadata of metadata). When Linux opens a file, it also creates a file object, which holds data about where the file is stored and what processes are using it. The file object (but not the file data itself) is thrown away when the file is closed. Inode. An inode (short for index node) is a bunch of attributes about a file that Linux stores.
A request to access any file requires access to the filesystem's superblock. If its superblock cannot be accessed, a filesystem cannot be mounted (i.e., logically attached to the main filesystem) and thus files cannot be accessed. For each mounted filesystem, Linux also maintains a copy of its superblock in memory. An ext2 filesystem, the basic Linux filesystem type, is divided into block groups, each of which contains, by default, 8192 blocks. The default block size on the same filesystem is 4096 bytes.
Fortunately, however, e2fsck can be instructed to use one of the superblock copies instead by issuing a command similar to the following: e2fsck-f -b block_offset device. block_offset is the offset to a superblock copy, and it is usually 8193. The-f option is used to force e2fsck to check the filesystem. For each mounted filesystem, Linux also maintains a copy of its superblock in memory. An ext2 filesystem, the basic Linux filesystem type, is divided into block groups, each of which contains, by default, 8192 blocks. The default block size on the same filesystem is 4096 bytes.
e2fsck-f -b 8193 /dev/hda2. A superblock is a record of the characteristics of a filesystem, including its size, the block size, the empty and the filled blocks and their respective counts, the size and location of the inode tables, the disk block map and usage information, and the size of the block groups. For each mounted filesystem, Linux also maintains a copy of its superblock in memory. An ext2 filesystem, the basic Linux filesystem type, is divided into block groups, each of which contains, by default, 8192 blocks. The default block size on the same filesystem is 4096 bytes.
A. Linux ext2/3 filesystem stores superblock at different backup location so it is possible to get back data from corrupted partition. WARNING! Make sure file system is UNMOUNTED. If your system will give you a terminal type the following command, else boot Linux system from rescue disk (boot from 1st CD/DVD. 
The superblock is a unique data structure in a filesystem (though multiple copies exist to guard against corruption). The superblock holds metadata about the filesystem, like which inode is the top-level directory and the type of filesystem used. When Linux opens a file, it also creates a file object, which holds data about where the file is stored and what processes are using it. The file object (but not the file data itself) is thrown away when the file is closed. Inode. An inode (short for index node) is a bunch of attributes about a file that Linux stores.