Atherosclerosis (also known as arteriosclerotic vascular disease or ASVD) is a specific form of arteriosclerosis in which an artery wall thickens as a result of invasion and accumulation of white blood cells (WBCs) (foam cell) and proliferation of intimal smooth muscle cell creating a fibrofatty plaque. Atherosclerosis is therefore a syndrome affecting arterial blood vessels due to a chronic inflammatory response of WBCs in the walls of arteries.
Atherosclerotic vascular disease -- commonly called atherosclerosis -- is a disease of the blood vessels in which plaque builds up in the lining of the artery walls. When atherosclerosis affects the arteries of the heart, it is called coronary heart disease. The buildup of plaque inside the coronary arteries limits the flow of blood to the heart muscle. A common symptom of coronary heart disease is chest pain or discomfort, especially with exertion
Knowledge center. Atherosclerosis (or arteriosclerotic vascular disease) is a condition where the arteries become narrowed and hardened due to an excessive build up of plaque around the artery wall. The disease disrupts the flow of blood around the body, posing serious cardiovascular complications. Arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis. Arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis are different conditions: 1  Arteriosclerosis is the stiffening or hardening of the artery walls. 2  Atherosclerosis is the narrowing of the artery because of plaque build-up.
The plaques of atherosclerosis cause the three main kinds of cardiovascular disease 1  : Coronary artery disease: Stable plaques in the heart's arteries cause angina (chest pain on exertion). 2  Sudden plaque rupture and clotting causes heart muscle to die. 3  This is a heart attack, or myocardial infarction. 1 Coronary artery disease: Stable plaques in the heart's arteries cause angina (chest pain on exertion). 2  Sudden plaque rupture and clotting causes heart muscle to die. 3  This is a heart attack, or myocardial infarction.
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. Coronary Heart Disease. Coronary heart disease (CHD), also called coronary artery disease, occurs when plaque builds up in the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart. Plaque narrows the coronary arteries and reduces blood flow to your heart muscle.
Atherosclerosis is the usual cause of heart attacks, strokes, and peripheral vascular disease -- what together are called  cardiovascular disease .. Cardiovascular disease is the No. 1 killer in America, with more than 800,000 deaths in 2005. 1 Coronary artery disease: Stable plaques in the heart's arteries cause angina (chest pain on exertion). 2  Sudden plaque rupture and clotting causes heart muscle to die. 3  This is a heart attack, or myocardial infarction.
Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. Plaque is made of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin (a clotting material in the blood). Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis. Some of the diseases that may develop as a result of atherosclerosis include coronary heart disease, angina (chest pain), carotid artery disease, peripheral artery disease (PAD) and chronic kidney disease. Two things that can happen where plaque occurs are: 1  A piece of the plaque may break off.