Strasbourg Cathedral location. The Strasbourg Cathedral is located in central Strasbourg, i.e. on the border between France and France. The cathedral is situated on Place de la Cathedrale cathédrale in the heart Of. strasbourg The cathedral is situated on Place de la Cathedrale cathédrale in the heart Of. Strasbourg for the exact location Of Strasbourg, cathedral check out the Location map to the. right
Strasbourg, France. The Ecole de Management Strasbourg is located in the largest student city in the east of France, with approximately 48,000 students. The city has proved highly attractive with foreign students, who make up some 20% of the total university student body.
Located in the heart of Europe, A city known for its quality of life, Less than 600 kilometres from Europe's largest cities! Geographical location. An influential European city, Strasbourg is located in Alsace in eastern France, close to Germany, Switzerland and Luxembourg. Strasbourg is one of the finest European capitals, brimming with history and bursting with youth and vitality. 
Location. Strasbourg is a city/town with a medium population in the state/region of Alsace, France which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Strasbourg include Schiltigheim, Bischheim, Hoenheim hœnheim And. Eckbolsheim the closest major cities Include-Bas, Rhin, Ortenaukreis rastatt And. freiburg Where is Strasbourg in Alsace, France Located? Strasbourg is a city/town with a medium population in the state/region of Alsace, France which is located in the continent/region of Europe.
Strasbourg Cathedral location. The Strasbourg Cathedral is located in central Strasbourg, i.e. on the border between France and France. The cathedral is situated on Place de la Cathedrale cathédrale in the heart Of. Strasbourg for the exact location Of Strasbourg, cathedral check out the Location map to the. right
Strasbourg is situated on the eastern border of France with Germany. This border is formed by the River Rhine, which also forms the eastern border of the modern city, facing across the river to the German town Kehl. In 1920, Strasbourg became the seat of the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine, previously located in Mannheim, one of the oldest European institutions. It moved into the former Imperial Palace.
Economically, Strasbourg is an important centre of manufacturing and engineering, as well as a hub of road, rail, and river transportation. The port of Strasbourg is the second largest on the Rhine after Duisburg, Germany. In 1920, Strasbourg became the seat of the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine, previously located in Mannheim, one of the oldest European institutions. It moved into the former Imperial Palace.
The Hannong Hotel is located in the heart of Strasbourg, just a 5-minute walk from the TGV train station, Petite France district and the cathedral. It offers free Wi-Fi access. Hotel Hôtel hannong-4 star. Hotel most recent booking for this hotel was yesterday at:4 15. pm 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The University of Strasbourg in Strasbourg, Alsace, France, is the second largest university in France (after Aix-Marseille University), with about 46,000 students and over 4,000 researchers. On 1 January 2009, the fusion of these three universities reconstituted a united University of Strasbourg, which is now amongst Europe's best in the League of European Research Universities.