Go to the footers using the Switch between Header/Footer button and repeat the steps. 11.) Press the Close button on the toolbar and examine the headers and footers on your document to make sure that they are exactly as you wish. The key to adding multiple headers and footers is the use of continuous breaks. You want to add a continous break at the bottom of each page of your document where you want different headers and footers. 5.) Here is an example where you can see that a section break has been added. 6.) Once you have added all of the continous breaks, go up to View on the menubar.
Hi Community, I have a 2010 Word document with two section breaks (I added the second section break in order to merge a file with an existing one). Each section has a header and footer, and they are unlinked. However, when I remove the second section break, the header and footer in the first section disappears. 
When you need a different header of footer, the first step is to enter a section break as follows: 1  Click the Page Layout tab. 2  In the Page Setup group, choose the appropriate break option from the Breaks dropdown. 3  In Word 2003, choose Break from the Insert menu. 4  Choose a break from the resulting dialog and click OK. After adding a section break, you need to break the link between the previous section and the newly added section, as follows: 1  Double-click in the new section's header space. 2  In Word 2003, choose Header and Footer from the View menu to open the header in edit mode.
1 You insert a section break (next page type). 2  Now, the Header/Footer toolbar indicates it's linked to the previous section, but the header doesn't show up! Well...that's because it's linked to the First Page header of the previous section and not the (main) Header of the previous section. Section breaks are intricately tied in with the File Page setup options of Different First Page and Different Odd/Even Headers and Footers. 1  Use the Different First Page option if you want a different heading on your first page than on the rest of your document.
You can now set the header, footer, page margins etc. for the second page differently from those on the first page. When you're done, click Close Header and Footer, or double-click in the body of the document. You can now delete the page break, so that the document has one page again. On the first page, press Ctrl+Enter to insert a page break. You're now on page 2. (Do *not* insert a section break!). This automatically activates the Design tab of the ribbon, under Header & Footer Tools. In the Options group of this tab, tick the check box Different First Page.
If your document is already divided into sections, you can use the section breaks to configure headers and footers. Starting at the beginning of the document, click in the first section for which you want to vary the header or footer. On the Insert tab, in the Header & Footer group, click Header or Footer. Click Edit Header or Edit Footer. On the Headers & Footers tab, in the Navigation group, click Link to Previous to break the connection between the header or footer in this section and the previous section. Change the existing header or footer, or create a new header or footer for this section. Create odd and even headers or footers in a document that does not yet use headers or footers. Click an odd-numbered page, such as the first page of your document. On the Insert tab, in the Header & Footer group, click Header or Footer.
When you need a different header of footer, the first step is to enter a section break as follows: 1  Click the Page Layout tab. 2  In Word 2003, choose Break from the Insert menu. After adding a section break, you need to break the link between the previous section and the newly added section, as follows: 1  Double-click in the new section's header space. 2  In Word 2003, choose Header and Footer from the View menu to open the header in edit mode.
By default, your document footers will have the same content even on pages with section breaks. To change this, double-click a header or footer in the new section of your document, and click the Link to Previous button to turn linking off. Now your footers and headers will be fully unique between your document sections. 