Gonorrhea, a curable STD commonly called “the clap”, is caused by a bacterium called Neisseria gonorrhoeae. These bacteria can infect the mucous membranes of the genital tract, the mouth, the rectum, the throat (pharyngitis), or the eye (conjunctivitis). It is contracted through oral, vaginal, or anal sex. 
You may have heard of gonorrhea, but many people are not sure what it is. Gonorrhea (gon-o-RHEE-a) is an infection caused by a kind of bacteria that is passed during sexual contact. It can infect the penis, vagina, cervix, anus, urethra, or throat. Sometimes it is called the clap or the drip.. Gonorrhea can be a serious health risk if it is not treated. It affects more than 800,000 women and men in the United States every year. In both women and men, gonorrhea may cause the anus to itch. It can also result in a discharge and painful bowel movements. Itching and soreness of the throat with trouble swallowing may be symptoms of an oral infection. Nine out of 10 oral infections show no symptoms at all.
For other uses, see Clap. Gonorrhea, also known as gonnococcal infection, gonococcal urethritis, gonorrhoea and the clap, is a sexually transmitted infection that is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The usual symptoms in men are a burning sensation with urination and discharge from the penis. Gonorrhea is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The infection is transmitted from one person to another through vaginal, oral, or anal sex. Men have a 20% risk of getting the infection from a single act of vaginal intercourse with an infected woman. The risk for men that have sex with men is higher.
Why It Is Done. Tests for gonorrhea are done to: 1  See if a gonorrhea infection may be causing symptoms such as painful urination, anal itching or bleeding, vaginal bleeding after intercourse, or abnormal discharge from the penis or vagina. 1 They can be done on urine samples or samples of body fluid from the area where the infection is suspected. 2  Gonorrhea culture. 3  This test is done on a sample of body fluid collected from the area where the infection is suspected, such as the cervix, urethra, eye, rectum, or throat.
It does not always cause symptoms. Tests used to find a gonorrhea infection include: 1  Nucleic acid amplification tests (NAAT). 2  NAATs find the genetic material (DNA) of gonorrhea germs. 3  These tests are very accurate. 4  They can be done on urine samples or samples of body fluid from the area where the infection is suspected. 1 They can be done on urine samples or samples of body fluid from the area where the infection is suspected. 2  Gonorrhea culture. 3  This test is done on a sample of body fluid collected from the area where the infection is suspected, such as the cervix, urethra, eye, rectum, or throat.
Women have no symptoms about half the time or have vaginal discharge and pelvic pain. In both men and women, if gonorrhea is left untreated, it may spread locally, causing inflammation of the epididymis or pelvic inflammatory disease or throughout the body, affecting joints and heart valves. Testing all women who are sexually active and less than 25 years of age each year is recommended. Gonorrhea is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The infection is transmitted from one person to another through vaginal, oral, or anal sex. Men have a 20% risk of getting the infection from a single act of vaginal intercourse with an infected woman. The risk for men that have sex with men is higher.
Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) that can infect both men and women. It can cause infections in the genitals, rectum, and throat. It is a very common infection, especially among young people ages 15-24 years. Most of the time, urine can be used to test for gonorrhea. However, if you have had oral and/or anal sex, swabs may be used to collect samples from your throat and/or rectum. In some cases, a swab may be used to collect a sample from a man’s urethra (urine canal) or a woman’s cervix (opening to the womb).
The gonorrhea test is used to: 1  Diagnose the cause of symptoms. 2  Screen sexually active people. 3  Document that a person has been sexually abused. In men, a quick method that may be used in a clinic or doctor's office is the gram stain, which allows the doctor to look at a sample from the urethra for the presence of the bacteria using a microscope. While this method can diagnose gonorrhea, it is not sufficient to rule out an infection in asymptomatic men.
Gonorrhea Test. Guide. Gonorrhea tests tell if a person has this disease. They look for the bacterium, or germ, that causes gonorrhea. Testing is done on body fluid or urine samples. Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted infection. 1 They can be done on urine samples or samples of body fluid from the area where the infection is suspected. 2  Gonorrhea culture. 3  This test is done on a sample of body fluid collected from the area where the infection is suspected, such as the cervix, urethra, eye, rectum, or throat.