The size of the free space in front of the toilet varies, depending on the placement of the toilet, so get your plan approved by the local building authority before starting. Typically, you need a minimum of 48 inches by 66 inches of open space in an ADA-compliant toilet area. That doesn’t change the minimum distance from the toilet centerline to the side or back wall, however. The back wall distance remains the same, 12-1/2 inches from the center of the toilet flange to the framing, but the minimum space to the side increases to 18 inches from the toilet centerline to the finished wall on both sides.
If possible, however, increase the distance from the toilet centerline to the wall framing to 18-1/2 inches to make it more comfortable to use the toilet. This is also true for the space in front of the toilet to the facing wall, which will be more comfortable if it’s at least 30 inches. If the toilet sits opposite a shower door, 30 inches is the minimum distance between the two fixtures, but 36 inches gives you a little more wiggle room. The back wall distance remains the same, 12-1/2 inches from the center of the toilet flange to the framing, but the minimum space to the side increases to 18 inches from the toilet centerline to the finished wall on both sides.
For a full bathroom, which includes a toilet, sink, and shower/tub unit, you ll need around 40 square feet of space, e.g. 5 x8. With this amount of space you should be able to include a small bathroom vanity for the sink to provide a little storage space. Also, If you want to include a small bathroom closet in a full bathroom design, then you ll need another 4 square feet of space in the plans. Also when designing your bathroom consider where you ll install bathroom towel racks or towel rings, and toilet paper holders. Towel rings require the least amount of horizontal wall space and are ideal for powder rooms. However, a three quarters or full bathroom will typically need either a single towel rack with two rods or two separate towel racks.
The back wall clearance, which is the distance to the finished back wall, is usually 12 inches, but it can also be 10 or 14 inches, depending in the toilet. The distances to the finished side walls must be at least 15 inches. Back and Side Walls. The three most important rough-in measurements you need to make before setting the toilet flange are the distances between the center of the waste pipe and the back and side walls.
The wall bumps out about 6 inches where the vanity is going on one end of the room, and the other end of the room will hold the shower. In between the vanity and bath is a 23 inch space for a toilet. I know the toilet will physicallly fit there, but won't we feel squished? 
Recommended: The distance from the centerline of a toilet and/or bidet to any bath fixture, wall, or other obstacle should be at least 18 inches. Code Requirement: A minimum distance of 15 inches is required from the centerline of a toilet and/or bidet to any bath fixture, wall, or other obstacle. Code Requirement: 1  A minimum space of 21 inches must be planned in front of lavatory, toilet, bidet, and tub. 2  A minimum space of 24 inches must be planned in front of a shower entry.
This means that if the walls are unfinished, the framing must be 15 5/8 inches from the waste pipe center to account for 5/8-inch waterproof bathroom drywall. The National Kitchen & Bath Association requires at least 24 inches clearance in front of a toilet. Moreover, the NKBA recommends 32 inches from the center of the toilet waste line to the center of that of any other sanitary fixture, although local codes may require only 30 inches. Back and Side Walls. The three most important rough-in measurements you need to make before setting the toilet flange are the distances between the center of the waste pipe and the back and side walls.
Toilet clearances are an important consideration when planning a bathroom remodel or a new bathroom. These include not only the distances between the toilet and the back and side walls but also the clearance in front of it and the distance to other sanitary fixtures. Back and Side Walls. The three most important rough-in measurements you need to make before setting the toilet flange are the distances between the center of the waste pipe and the back and side walls.
· just now. Report Abuse. Yes I believe you will have plenty of room that is if you are planning on putting the tank of the toilet parallel to the 6 foot wall. You want to be comfortable space use at least a min of 32 inches of space for the toilet and at least 24 inches of clear floor space in front of the toilet. I'd recommend 36 tho, 30 is kind of tight for a larger person. you also need a minimum of 18 from the front of the toilet to any obstruction. Source(s): International Plumbing code. I'm also a master plumber.
Bathroom Planning Guideline: Clear Space. Recommended: Plan a clear floor space of at least 30 inches from the front edge of all fixtures (lavatory, toilet, bidet, tub, and shower) to any opposite bath fixture, wall, or obstacle. Code Requirement: 1  A minimum space of 21 inches must be planned in front of lavatory, toilet, bidet, and tub. 2  A minimum space of 24 inches must be planned in front of a shower entry.