Hansen's disease, also known as leprosy, is a chronic bacterial disease that primarily affects the skin, peripheral nerves and upper airway. 1 Most (95 percent) of the human population is not susceptible to infection with M. leprae, the bacteria that causes Hansen's disease (leprosy). 2  Treatment with standard antibiotic drugs is very effective.
A significant prevalence of leprosy in wild armadillos establishes this animal as a reservoir of M. leprae, and exposure to armadillos has been implicated as a source of leprosy in humans. Current evidence suggests that leprosy is a zoonosis in certain nonhuman primate species. (1)Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington, D.C. Naturally-acquired leprosy has been reported in nine-banded armadillos captured in the southern United States, a chimpanzee from Sierra Leone, and in two sooty mangabey monkeys from Nigeria.
Conclusions. Wild armadillos and many patients with leprosy in the southern United States are infected with the same strain of M. leprae. Armadillos are a large natural reservoir for M. leprae, and leprosy may be a zoonosis in the region. Details of the M. leprae strains obtained from 50 patients with leprosy and 33 wild armadillos in the United States are given in Table S1 in the Supplementary Appendix (available with the full text of this article at NEJM.org).
Leprosy and armadillos. Beside humans, armadillos are the only animals known to get leprosy, also known as Hansen's disease. Leprosy is caused by a bacteria, Mycobaterium leprae. The disease causes skin lesions and nerve damage, but it's best known for the stigma carried by sufferers. In the late 1800s, one island in Hawaii, Molokai, was set aside to quarantine leprosy patients because of fears that the disease would spread. In 25 Americans with leprosy who lived in areas where armadillos roam, the disease matched a unique strain of leprosy-causing bacteria also found in 28 out of 33 wild armadillos, researchers reported today (April 27) in the New England Journal of Medicine.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Hansen's disease (also known as leprosy) is a long-lasting infection caused by bacteria. The disease was once feared as a highly contagious and devastating disease. Now, however, the disease is very rare and easily treated. Early diagnosis and treatment usually prevent disability related to the disease. 
Based on genetic analysis studies, wild armadillos and many patients with leprosy in the southern United States are infected with the same strain of M leprae. Leprosy may be a zoonosis in the southern United States because armadillos are a large reservoir for this disease. Background. Leprosy is a chronic infection caused by the acid-fast, rod-shaped bacillus Mycobacterium leprae. Leprosy can be considered 2 connected diseases that primarily affect superficial tissues, especially the skin and peripheral nerves. Initially, a mycobacterial infection causes a wide array of cellular immune responses
Leprosy, also known as Hansen's disease (HD), is a chronic infection caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium leprae and Mycobacterium lepromatosis. Initially, infections are without symptoms and typically remain this way from 5 to as long as 20 years. Leprosy is curable with a treatment known as multidrug therapy (MDT). Treatment for paucibacillary leprosy is with the medications dapsone and rifampicin for six months. Treatment for multibacillary leprosy consists of rifampicin, dapsone, and clofazimine for 12 months.
Article. Leprosy (Hansen's disease) is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae. 1,2 Though often considered a disease of antiquity, it is found most commonly today in tropical and semitropical regions, and a total of 249,007 new cases were reported globally in 2008. Details of the M. leprae strains obtained from 50 patients with leprosy and 33 wild armadillos in the United States are given in Table S1 in the Supplementary Appendix (available with the full text of this article at NEJM.org).
In the southern region of the United States, such as in Louisiana and Texas, there are autochthonous cases of leprosy among native-born Americans with no history of foreign exposure. In the same region, as well as in Mexico, wild armadillos are infected with Mycobacterium leprae. Details of the M. leprae strains obtained from 50 patients with leprosy and 33 wild armadillos in the United States are given in Table S1 in the Supplementary Appendix (available with the full text of this article at NEJM.org).