In Swedish the meaning of the name Mark is: Warring. Latin Meaning: The name Mark is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Mark is: Hammer. English Meaning: The name Mark is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Mark is: Derived from Latin 'Marcus': Mars (Roman god of war). St. Mark was the author of the second Gospel. 
Also, some Jews during Roman times also had Latin names for themselves, such as the Christian apostle Mark (Latin Marcus). As was the case with contemporary Jewish names of Greek origin, most of these Latin names are generally not associated with Jews today, and today retain a Roman and Christian character. Many of these names are thought to have been adapted from Hebrew phrases and expressions, bestowing special meaning or the unique circumstances of birth to the one who receives that name. An example of a name with a special personal meaning is יהודה Yəhuḏāh (Yəhûḏāh). judah
I didn't find a Hebrew meaning for this name. Many Jewish people, during Roman times, gave their children Latin names such as Mark (Marcus). It means Hammer, Mars (Roman god of war). Famous Bearer: Marcus Antonius (Mark Anthony), Roman triumvir and lover of Egyptian Pharaoh Cleopatra. Erica is not a Hebrew word, there is no meaning for it in the Hebrew language. However, the spelling of the name is as follows: אריקה. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Adam Reisman. 301,998 Contributions. I studied both modern Hebrew and Biblical Hebrew for many years in high school and college.
Zalman is not a Hebrew name. It is a Yiddish name. It is the Yiddish equivalent of the Hebrew name Shlomo (שלומה), from the root meaning Peace. 9 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Adam Reisman. 301,998 Contributions. I studied both modern Hebrew and Biblical Hebrew for many years in high school and college. Erica is not a Hebrew word, there is no meaning for it in the Hebrew language. However, the spelling of the name is as follows: אריקה. 2
This name is also used in The Netherlands. In most cases, Dutch parents choose it because they view it as a French name and like this French form of Mark. However, other parents use Marc as a short form for Marcus or just as a variant spelling for Mark. 
The Biblical baby name Marcus is Latin in origin and its meaning is hammer, warlike, of the Roman war god Mars. Mark is pronounced mar'-k. Mark, also called Marcus, was an early convert to Christian ity. His Jewish name was John, Mark was his Latin surname. Mark was a native of Jerusalem, his mother was Mary, and his cousin was Barnabas of Cyprus. Mark's mother was probably a woman of wealth and influence in Jerusalem. 
Hebrew names are names that have a Hebrew language origin, classically from the Hebrew Bible. They are mostly used by Jews and Christians, but many are also adapted to the Islamic world, particularly if a Hebrew name is mentioned in the Qur'an (example: Ibrahim is a common Arabic name from the Hebrew Avraham). Many of these names are thought to have been adapted from Hebrew phrases and expressions, bestowing special meaning or the unique circumstances of birth to the one who receives that name. An example of a name with a special personal meaning is יהודה Yəhuḏāh (Yəhûḏāh). judah
Your Hebrew Name Certificate will be delivered directly to your home, bound in a certificate folder for you to proudly display. Download a high resolution PDF of your personally prepared Hebrew Name Certificate to print from your home computer. Please visit our sponsors below. 
Only Hebrew names have meaning  in Hebrew. Arabella might be a Medievel Scottish variation of the  Latin name Orabilis, which mean invoca … ble. No Hebrew name has  this meaning.   People with the Name Arabella can choose any Hebrew name they want. Erica is not a Hebrew word, there is no meaning for it in the Hebrew language. However, the spelling of the name is as follows: אריקה. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Adam Reisman. 301,998 Contributions. I studied both modern Hebrew and Biblical Hebrew for many years in high school and college.
John Mark was a native of Western Libya. He was born in the city of Cyrene in Pentapolis. Mark was born of Jewish parents three years after the birth of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. His given name was יוֹחָנָן (Yochanan) meaning YAHWEH is gracious. John is the Greek transliteration of that name. His surname was Mark which is a Latin or Roman name meaning warlike or smashing hammer: Bible verse that reveal Mark's two names are as follow