Calcium is a chemical element with symbol Ca and atomic number 20. Calcium is a soft gray alkaline earth metal, fifth-most-abundant element by mass in the Earth 's crust. The ion Ca 2+ is also the fifth-most-abundant dissolved ion in seawater by both molarity and mass, after sodium, chloride, magnesium, and sulfate. Free calcium metal is too reactive to occur in nature. With a density of 1.54 g/cm 3, calcium is the lightest of the alkaline earth metals; magnesium (specific gravity 1.74) and beryllium (1.84) are denser though lighter in atomic mass. From strontium onward, the alkali earth metals become denser with increasing
Calcium is a silvery white metal which is chemically active, reacting with cold water to produce calcium hydroxide, Ca(OH) 2. It burns readily in air, producing calcium oxide, CaO, and calcium nitride, Ca 3 N 2. 
Calcium Hydroxide cannot conduct electricity when it is in solid state but it can conduct electricity in aqueous solution state or molten state. This is because it is an ionic … compound. Ionic compounds are made of charged ions which are held tightly in solid state but become mobile in molten or aqueous solution state. 
The density of calcium chloride is 2.15 gm/cm 3. It is soluble both in inorganic solvents like water, as well as organic solvents like ethanol. Electrical conductivity. Usually in a molten state, it is a good conductor of electricity. Calcium chloride can be prepared by various methods. When calcium carbonate or calcium oxide is dissolved in hydrochloric acid, this compound is produced. Calcium chloride is obtained on a large scale as a byproduct of the Solvay process or the ammonia-soda process.
Think about the arrangement of ions in solid calcium chloride and the ions in a solution of calcium chloride. In solid calcium chloride the atoms are arranged in a lattice structure, similar to that of sodium chloride. The atoms are in fixed positions and so cannot move to carry charge throughout the structure, which is what electrical conductivity is. 'Solid calcium chloride does not conduct electricity. An aqueous solution of calcium chloride does conduct. Explain the different conductivities of solid and aqueous calcium chloride.' (2 marks). Thanks, Dan.
In this video, Dr. David Hobbs observes the conductivity of pure water plus calcium carbonate (CaCO 3). Right-click or ctrl-click this link to download. And in the following video, Dr. Hobbs discusses the ionization of calcium carbonate and potential environmental implications. 
Yes, calcium is a good conductor of heat and electricity. Most metals are good conductors of heat and electricity. Most nonmetals are not good conductors of heat and electrici … ty. 3 people found this useful. Conductors of electricity are materials that let electricity pass through them. A good conductor of electricity is something that allows electricity to flow smoothly. Some con … ductors include silver, copper, gold, aluminum, and calcium. 36 people found this useful.
Calcium is essential for living organisms, in particular in cell physiology, where movement of the calcium ion into and out of the cytoplasm functions as a signal for many cellular processes. With a density of 1.54 g/cm 3, calcium is the lightest of the alkaline earth metals; magnesium (specific gravity 1.74) and beryllium (1.84) are denser though lighter in atomic mass. From strontium onward, the alkali earth metals become denser with increasing
Measurements have been carried out of the electrical conductivity of single crystals of calcium oxide from 300 to 1400°K, and of strontium oxide from 600 to 1050°K. It was measured at 1 59 kc/s for both oxides, and also with d.c. for calcium oxide. 