Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico. A look at the numbers shows that Cancun, along with the entire Riviera Maya, is as safe to visit as it's always been.
The Riviera Maya extends along the Caribbean coast of Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula from Puerto Morelos to the Sian Ka’an Biosphere Reserve. One of the best ways to enjoy nature is to visit the Riviera Maya, a 120 km shore line with spectacular landscape. This area, stretching from Puerto Morelos through Carrillo Puerto (in the heart of the Sian Ka'an Biosphere Reserve) to Punta Allen, is full of attractions.
Punta Maroma, Riviera Maya, Mexico. The Riviera Maya was originally called the  Cancun–Tulum corridor , but in 1999 it was renamed as the Riviera Maya with the aid of Lic. Miguel Ramon Ramón Martin martín azueta who at the time was the municipal President, Of Solidaridad. quintana roo
Mayan Riviera. The Mayan Riviera is comprised of the area just south of the tip of the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico. It stretches along 75 miles of the Mexican Caribbean coastline in the southeastern part of of the Yucatan Peninsula. The term Riviera Maya is fairly new and has varied definitions, but it starts approximately 10 miles south of Cancun at the seaside village of Puerto Morelos and includes places like Playa del Carmen, Puerto Aventuras, Akumal, and Tulum.
The state of Quintana Roo, home to Cancun, Cozumel, Playa del Carmen, Riviera Maya and Tulum wasn’t listed as unsafe for travelers, appearing in the document as “No travel advisory in effect”. From the Travel Advisory : By Camilo Olea on July 15, 2013 featured, is cancun safe, is cancun safe 2013, is it safe to travel to cancun, is it safe to travel to mexico. “Millions of U.S. citizens safely visit Mexico each year for study, tourism, and business, including more than 150,000 who cross the border every day.
HOW SAFE IS RIVIERA MAYA. Most certainly safer than any major city in the US and Canada. I lived in Playa and have been spending 7 winters there since 2001. Please, the whole of the Yucatan peninsula has got to be one of the safest and most tourist friendly areas I have ever had the pleasure of discovering. MaryJaneThomas on Jul 24, 13 at 11:55 PM. My family will be traveling to Catalonia Riviera Maya next month. I have to admit from hearing of the drug wars, I'm concerned if there may be a safety issue, as our resort is a 50 mile commute.
In fact I think the Mayan Riveria is one of the safest places in the world. The local population is very friendly. Mexico is a large country and their are dangerous areas in the country. Look on the US State Department webpage and it shows the Yucatan as safe. But don't just take our word for it. Here are some recent reviews from our clients, followed by some links to interesting online articles on safety in Mexico and the Riviera Maya in particular. Mariann Bauer-March 22, 2012 - Akumal-The people in Akumal are so friendly.