Amelia Earhart Learns to Fly. Amelia Earhart was born in Atchison, Kansas, on July 24, 1897. In those days, airplanes were not nearly as common as they are today. Earhart was 12 years old before she ever saw an airplane, and she did not take her first flight until 1920. Amelia Earhart was so thrilled by her first airplane ride that she quickly began to take flying lessons. She wrote, As soon as I left the ground, I knew I myself had to fly.
Amelia Mary Earhart was born in her maternal grandparents’ home in Atchison, Kansas, on July 24, 1897 to Amy and Edwin Earhart. Although Edwin was a lawyer, he never earned the approval of Amy’s parents, Judge Alfred Otis and his wife, Amelia. In 1927, aviator Charles Lindbergh made history by becoming the first person to fly non-stop across the Atlantic, from the U.S. to England. A year later, Amelia Earhart was asked to make a non-stop flight across the same ocean.
Timeline: Amelia Earhart, 1897-1937. July 24, 1897: A 20th Century Childhood. Amelia Mary Earhart is born in Atchison, Kansas, to parents Amy Otis and Edwin Stanton Earhart. Her sister, Muriel, is born two years later. Amelia lives primarily with her maternal grandparents in Atchison during the school year and spends summers with her parents in Kansas City
Amelia Mary Earhart (/ˈɛərhɑrt/ ; July 24, 1897 – disappeared July 2, 1937) was an American aviation pioneer and author. Earhart was the first female aviator to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean. She received the U.S. Distinguished Flying Cross for this record. 
Her numerous aviation firsts and her disappearance during an attempt to fly around the globe in 1937 have ensured her status as a legend. Amelia Mary Earhart was born July 24, 1897, to Edwin and Amelia Amy (Otis) Earhart in her Otis grandparents’ house in Atchison, Kansas. Two years later, her sister Grace Muriel was born in Kansas City, Missouri, on December 29, 1899. Picture of the Day: July 2 The Disappearance of Amelia Earhart On July 2, 1937, record-setting aviatrix Amelia Earhart and navigator Frederick Noonan disappeared over the Pacific in their attempt to fly around the world.
In 1932, Amelia Earhart — the Amelia Earhart—became the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean. In 1937, she attempted to fly around the globe, only to vanish over the Pacific Ocean (so, not in the Bermuda Triangle). Today's Amelia will fly with a copilot. 
As a pilot, Amelia Earhart set many world flying records. She became the first woman to fly across the Atlantic Ocean and the first person to make a solo flight across both the Atlantic and the Pacific oceans. She also set several height and speed records in an airplane. In 1927, aviator Charles Lindbergh made history by becoming the first person to fly non-stop across the Atlantic, from the U.S. to England. A year later, Amelia Earhart was asked to make a non-stop flight across the same ocean.
In 1928, Earhart gained international fame after she became the first female passenger to fly across the Atlantic on the Friendship with pilot Wilmer Stultz and co-pilot Louis Gordon. After writing a bestselling book about the experience Amelia’s celebrity exploded. Introduction: Amelia Earhart. The first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic, Amelia Earhart was one of America’s first celebrities. After only a few years as a pilot she became the best-known female flier in America, not only for her daring and determination, but also for her striking looks and outspoken personality.
Amelia Earhart's first flight instructor was Neta Snook, the first woman graduate of the Curtiss School of Aviation. Later she took additional training from John Montijo, a former Army instructor. Answer   Amelia Earhart first woman to fly across the Atlantic in a multi-person plane in 1928 with pilot Wilmer Stultz.