The first written reference to the word tattoo (or tatau), appears in the journal of Joseph Banks (24 February 1743 – 19 June 1820), the naturalist aboard Captain Cook 's ship the HMS Endeavour : I shall now mention the way they mark themselves indelibly, each of them is so marked by their humor or disposition. The word tattoo was brought to Europe by the explorer James Cook, when he returned in 1769 from his first voyage to Tahiti and New Zealand. In his narrative of the voyage, he refers to an operation called tattaw. Before this it had been described as scarring, painting, or staining.
Tattoo enthusiasts may refer to tattoos as ink, pieces, skin art, tattoo art, tats, or work; to the creators as tattoo artists, tattooers, or tattooists ; and to places where they work as tattoo shops, tattoo studios, or tattoo parlors. The word tattoo was brought to Europe by the explorer James Cook, when he returned in 1769 from his first voyage to Tahiti and New Zealand. In his narrative of the voyage, he refers to an operation called tattaw. Before this it had been described as scarring, painting, or staining.
The History and Origin of Tattoos. The history of tattoos is a long one, originating long before recorded history. The word tattoo originally comes from the Tahitian word “tatu”, meaning “to mark something”. The Polynesian word “tatao”, which means “to tap”, may have also played a role in the word tattoo coming into our language. The reasons for tattooing vary depending on the culture and the period of time for that culture. They used this term taken from the Tahitian word tatau, and such the word ‘tattoo’ was introduced into the English language. Because the process of tattooing was painstakingly slow, tattoos did not become that widespread in Europe. Each puncture of the skin had to be done by hand, apply the ink.
The art of Tattoo has its roots in the ancient times. The word Tattoo has originated from the Tahitian term Tatu or Tatau, which means mark or strike. report this answer. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Tattoo is actually a combination of two words from the Polynesian language. The word Tata means to tap repeatedly by hand. The word Au means color. Due to the way that tattoos are traditionally given, sailors travelling through the polynesian islands would ask for Tata Au.
The word Veranda came from a Malayalam (a south Indian language) where the word 'Varandha' means a sit out with roof on top and no walls on three sides. It comes from the 18th … Century Hindi word baraṇḍā (or barāmdā), which might come from the Persian word bar āmadaḥ coming out. Another theory is that the Hindi word comes from the Portuguese word varanda, meaning railing.
Report Abuse. Tatoo comes from the original Tongan/Tahitian word tatau.. Ta is the word for hand and is repeated to represent the technique used, striking the instrument used to make the tattoos multiple times. The last syllable u refers to the color. Where does the word Tattoo come from? In the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries field musicians were vital to military commanders to relay orders during the battle. The bands (made up of fifes, drums and bugles) kept the company or regiment in proper cadence while marching.
Tattoos. The word tattoo comes from the Tahitian word tatu which means to mark something. The first known tattoo dates back 4,000 years B.C. to the body of a man found preserved in a glacier. Tattoos have been found on Egyptian and Nubian mummies, but they have also been seen as something other than pieces of art. 
The word tattoo, or tattow in the 18th century, is a loanword from the Polynesian word tatau, meaning correct, workmanlike. The Oxford English Dictionary gives the etymology of tattoo as In 18th c. tattaow, tattow. From Polynesian (Tahitian, Samoan, Tongan, etc.) tatau. In Marquesan, tatu.. The word tattoo was brought to Europe by the explorer James Cook, when he returned in 1769 from his first voyage to Tahiti and New Zealand. In his narrative of the voyage, he refers to an operation called tattaw. Before this it had been described as scarring, painting, or staining.