A. Unfortunately the serum creatinine is a difficult test to do in the lab and requires good standardisation so you should do both urea and creatinine together. Urea is a sturdier test across labs. We use both of these to give us an indirect assessment of kidney function.
Diet is another factor that can cause fluctuation of serum creatinine, but it does not cause persistent high creatinine level. People who eat lots of meats suddenly may experience elevation of creatinine level, but it usually go back to the normal range after kidneys discharge excess creatinine in blood.
Creatinine is a breakdown product of creatine phosphate in muscle. Creatine phosphate is a component of the skeletal muscles which is broken down to supply energy to the body cells. The creatinine thus obtained then enters the blood stream to reach the kidneys, from where it is discharged through the urine.
Other direct factors related to creatinine levels include your age and your body weight. The older you get, the lower your overall level of creatinine. In addition, if you are extremely overweight, your level of creatinine will be lower as well. This occurs mainly because muscle mass decreases with age.
What is the normal level of creatinine? Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females.
Creatinine level can fluctuate and is a difficult thing to control. A small fraction of it is contributed by the patients' activity, but the vast majority is determined by their body size and remaining kidney function. As each of these things fluctuates, so does their creatinine level.
Yes, creatine levels can fluctuate. The levels of creatine in your body will change based on many factors, including diet, exercise, medications and overall stress levels. Creatine is a molecule found within the body, and is developed simply by the food that you consume. This food turns into energy as it metabolizes.