unicast. geocast. In computer networking, multicast (one-to-many or many-to-many distribution) is group communication where information is addressed to a group of destination computers simultaneously. Multicast should not be confused with physical layer point-to-multipoint communication.
Multicasting is similar to broadcasting, but only transmits information to specific users. It is used to efficiently transmit streaming media and other types of data to multiple users at one time. The simple way to send data to multiple users simultaneously is to transmit individual copies of the data to each user.
In an IP multicast-enabled intranet, any host can send IP multicast datagrams to any group address, and any host can receive IP multicast datagrams from any group address regardless of its location. To facilitate this capability, the hosts and routers on the intranet must support IP multicasting.
Multicast-Enabled Network. In this illustration, the hosts and routers are multicast-enabled so that the following can occur: 1  The sending host sends multicast datagrams to a designated group address. 2  The routers forward the multicast datagrams to any network segments that include group members.
Multicast is a type of communication where multicast traffic addressed for a group of devices on the network. IP multicast traffic are sent to a group and only members of that group receive and/or process the Multicast traffic.
In computer networking, multicast (one-to-many or many-to-many distribution) is group communication where information is addressed to a group of destination computers simultaneously.
A multicast is similar to a broadcast in the sense that its target is a number of machines on a network, but not all. Where a broadcast is directed to all hosts on the network, a multicast is directed to a group of hosts.
IP Multicasting Overview. The concept of group membership is central to IP multicasting. IP multicast datagrams are sent to a group, and only members of the group receive the datagrams.