Encapsulated bacteria have capsules which serve as an antiphagocytic virulence factor. These bacteria include S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae type B, N. meningitidis, E. coli, Salmonella, K. pneumoniae, group B Strep, B. fragilis, and C. Neoformans.
List of Encapsulated Bacteria. Some bacteria enclose themselves inside capsules formed from polymers of sugar molecules called polysaccharides.
Similar to plant cells, bacteria are characterized by a protective cell wall surrounding the cytoplasmic membrane. However, some species of bacteria feature a third protective covering, the capsule, which is composed either of proteins, or more commonly of polysaccharides, a class of complex carbohydrates.
Polysaccharide encapsulated bacteria, frequently referred to simply as encapsulated bacteria and less precisely called encapsulated organisms, are a group of bacteria that have an outer covering, a bacterial capsule, made of polysaccharide.
Phagocytosis. White blood cells called phagocytes engulf invaders then destroy them -- a little like eating then digesting the pathogens. This process is called phagocytosis. Macrophages, neutrophils and dendritic cells are the most important phagocytes in your immune system.
People with asplenia (frank or functionally via disease) are more susceptible to infection by encapsulated bacteria. Therefore, asplenic patients are vaccinated against Neisseria meningitis, Haemophilus influenzae, and Streptococcus pneumoniae. These vaccines can be remembered with the mnemonic: NHS.
Both of these pathogens are encapsulated bacteria. The former is responsible for diseases like strep throat, impetigo, cellulitis and necrotizing fasciitis; the media often refers to necrotizing fasciitis as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria..
The capsule acts a little like an outer coat. Encapsulated bacteria can be more difficult for your immune system to kill, and some species of encapsulated bacteria are responsible for a variety of common and often dangerous illnesses.
  . What does it means if a bacteria is encapsulated? What is the relationship between asplenia and encapsulated bacteria? What is a Quellung reaction? Name the classic encapsulated bacteria. There is some stuff in this section about using bacterial capsules as part of conjugate vaccines... but i don't get it. Came back after immunology.