1 You can transfer funds from any other bank account to your HDFC Bank Credit Card account electronically. 2  For further information, click here. 3  Please contact your bank for more details on NEFT. 4  Use IFSC Code HDFC0000128 for card payment through NEFT.For details on Visa Money Transfer, click here. 1 Note – you need to download the Mobile App in your phone and enable internet access on your phone. 2  Pay using HDFC Bank Mobile Site. 3  Login into Netbanking account from the mobile site www.m.hdfcbank.com. 4  Go to the credit card tab and choose credit card payment and make your payments using your HDFC Bank savings account.
1 Go to the credit card tab and choose credit card payment and make your payments using your HDFC Bank savings account. 2  ATM Funds Transfer. 3  All you have to do is walk in to any HDFC Bank ATM in India, at any time and transfer the bill amount from your savings or current account to your Credit Card account. 1 Note – you need to download the Mobile App in your phone and enable internet access on your phone. 2  Pay using HDFC Bank Mobile Site. 3  Login into Netbanking account from the mobile site www.m.hdfcbank.com. 4 
VBV/MSC. Verified By Visa(VBV) / MasterCard SecureCode is an easy to use, secured online payment service from Axis Bank that lets you shop securely online with your existing Axis Bank Credit Card. This service through a simple checkout process, confirms your identity when you make purchases on the Internet
Additionally, In order to avoid late payment interest we need to make Credit Card payment before the due date. Therefore, you can pay your Credit card bill payment online in few steps. Follow the steps of paying HDFC, AXIS AND SBI Credit card payment online. HDFC credit card online payment. http://www.billdesk.com/pgidsk/pgmerc/hdfccard/index.jsp.
Electronic Clearing Service (ECS). You can enroll for ECS facility and pay your Axis Bank Credit Card bill from any other Bank account. Please download the ECS forms (both Part A and Part B) and send the completely filled forms to the address mentioned on the form. 1 Log in to your Mobile Payments. 2  In Accounts option-Click on the Credit Card Number and Amount TAB which shall take you to Credit Card Summary page. 3  Click on Pay Last Bill option on Credit Card Summary Page. 4  Enter the Amount which you want to pay and click Continue which shall take you to Confirmation Page.
Axis Bank Account holder kindly Click here for instant payments. 1. Provide your Credit Card Details. Enter your 16 digit Axis Bank Credit Card number and the amount you would like to pay. Select your bank account from which you would like to execute this payment (we partner only with select banks). You will be securely redirected to the payment interface of your chosen bank. 2
- Select the goods or services you want from a Verified by Visa online store and proceed to the payment page. - Enter your Axis Bank Visa Card number and the online store will connect with Axis Bank to check whether your Card is secured with Verified by Visa. - Axis Bank initiates a Verified by Visa pop-up window on your computer screen that includes your Personal Message. You will be prompted for online registration for Verified by Visa by Axis Bank. You would need to authenticate yourself with your Axis Bank Credit/Debit/Travel Currency card number, ATM PIN and card expiry details. You can choose your password to be used for
Pay your Credit Card bills online through Axis Bank Internet Banking from your Axis Bank Savings account. All you have to do is: 1  Log on to Axis Bank Internet Banking. 2  Select the Credit Card number. 1 Log in to your Mobile Payments. 2  In Accounts option-Click on the Credit Card Number and Amount TAB which shall take you to Credit Card Summary page. 3  Click on Pay Last Bill option on Credit Card Summary Page. 4  Enter the Amount which you want to pay and click Continue which shall take you to Confirmation Page.
Best Answer: For payment of any credit card dues through net banking, you must possess net banking IDs and password of both banks, which should be collected from the both of banks. 