Fecal impaction is a mass of dry, hard stool that will not pass out of the colon or rectum. Fecal impaction is dry stool that cannot pass out of the body. Patients with fecal impaction may not have gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms. Instead, they may have problems with circulation, the heart, or breathing. If fecal impaction is not treated, it can get worse and cause death.
Symptoms of fecal impaction are similar to those of constipation, but are complicated when the impacted stool presses on other tissues. Solid stool and other materials can back up in the colon, while liquid stools moving past the impaction can cause diarrhea or uncontrolled leakage of stool. 
fecal impaction accumulation of putty-like or hardened feces in the rectum or sigmoid. The condition often occurs in patients with long-standing bowel problems and chronic constipation. It also may develop when barium is introduced into the intestinal tract and not completely removed. 
Treatment. Treating a fecal impaction involves steps to remove the impacted stool. After that, measures are taken to prevent future fecal impactions. Often a warm mineral oil enema is used to soften and lubricate the stool. However, enemas alone are usually not enough to remove a large, hardened impaction. 
Symptoms of fecal impaction include being unable to have a bowel movement and pain in the abdomen or back. The following may be symptoms of fecal impaction: 1  Being unable to have a bowel movement. 2  Having to push harder to have a bowel movement of small amounts of hard, dry stool. 3  Having fewer than the usual number of bowel movements. 4  Having pain in the back or abdomen.
Treating a fecal impaction involves removing the impacted stool. After that, measures are taken to prevent future fecal impactions. Often a warm mineral oil enema is used to soften and lubricate the stool. However, enemas alone are usually not enough to remove a large, hardened impaction. The mass may have to be broken up by hand. Constipation is when you are not passing stool as often as you normally do. Your stool becomes hard and dry, and it is difficult to pass. Fecal impaction is often seen in people who have had constipation for a long time and have been using laxatives. Impaction is even more likely when the laxatives are stopped suddenly.
A fecal impaction is a large mass of dry, hard stool that can develop in the rectum due to chronic constipation. Usually fecal impaction is noticed when you are straining and water stool comes out, but I have had hard stool come out today. Chronic constipation can cause the rectum to be extremely dilated resulting in blockage, or fecal impaction.
The treatment of fecal impaction requires both the remedy of the impaction and treatment to prevent future recurrences. Decreased motility of the colon results in dry, hard stools that in the case of fecal impaction become compacted into a large, hard mass of stool that cannot be expelled from the rectum. Symptoms include chronic constipation. There can be fecal incontinence and paradoxical or overflow diarrhea (encopresis) as liquid stool passes around the obstruction. Complications may include necrosis and ulcers of the rectal tissue.
Fecal impaction is a mass of dry, hard stool that will not pass out of the colon or rectum. Fecal impaction is dry stool that cannot pass out of the body. Patients with fecal impaction may not have gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms. Instead, they may have problems with circulation, the heart, or breathing. The following may be symptoms of fecal impaction: 1  Being unable to have a bowel movement. 2  Having to push harder to have a bowel movement of small amounts of hard, dry stool. 3  Having fewer than the usual number of bowel movements. 4  Having pain in the back or abdomen.
Fecal impaction is the formation of a large mass of hard stool in the rectum. While this stool may be too large to pass, loose, watery stool may be able to get by, leading to diarrhea or leakage of fecal material. Fecal impaction is a potential complication of chronic constipation. The development of constipation can be related to a diet low in fiber, limited fluid intake, medication side effects, lack of physical activity, or conditions affecting the colon, rectum or anus. If constipation does not improve and fecal impaction occurs, enemas may be used to soften the stool, which can be broken up and removed manually. Impacted stool may be removed in increments to reduce the risk of injuring