The International Phonetic Alphabet is based on the Latin alphabet, using as few non-Latin forms as possible. The Association created the IPA so that the sound values of most consonant letters taken from the Latin alphabet would correspond to international usage. Diacritics are used for phonetic detail. They are added to IPA letters to indicate a modification or specification of that letter's normal pronunciation. By being made superscript, any IPA letter may function as a diacritic, conferring elements of its articulation to the base letter.
The International Phonetic Alphabet (unofficially—though commonly—abbreviated IPA) is an alphabetic system of phonetic notation based primarily on the Latin alphabet. It was devised by the International Phonetic Association as a standardized representation of the sounds of oral language. The IPA is used by lexicographers, foreign language students and teachers, linguists, speech-language pathologists, singers, actors, constructed language creators, and translators. Diacritics are used for phonetic detail. They are added to IPA letters to indicate a modification or specification of that letter's normal pronunciation. By being made superscript, any IPA letter may function as a diacritic, conferring elements of its articulation to the base letter.
The International Radiotelephony Spelling Alphabet, commonly known as the NATO phonetic alphabet and also known as the ICAO radiotelephonic, phonetic or spelling alphabet and the ITU radiotelephonic or phonetic alphabet, is the most widely used radiotelephonic spelling alphabet. The name NATO phonetic alphabet became widespread because the signals used to facilitate the naval communications and tactics of NATO have become global.
Phonetic Alphabet. The phonetic alphabet is a special alphabet used by the US Army, and other Military branches. The main purpose of the phonetic alphabet is to provide a clearer way of spelling out words, or using any letters or numbers in general, over a radio or other communications device. Each letter in the phonetic alphabet is actually a word beginning with that letter. For example, in order to spell “DOG” using the phonetic alphabet, using the alphabet chart below, you would say: “Delta Oscar Golf”.
British forces adopted the RAF phonetic alphabet, which is similar to the phonetic alphabet used by the Royal Navy during World War I. At least two of the terms are sometimes still used by UK civilians to spell words over the phone, namely 'F for Freddie' and 'S for Sugar'. The name NATO phonetic alphabet became widespread because the signals used to facilitate the naval communications and tactics of NATO have become global.
The NATO phonetic alphabet or more formally the international radiotelephony spelling alphabet, is the most commonly used spelling dictionary in the aviation industry. 
Definition of PHONETIC ALPHABET. 1. : a set of symbols (as the IPA) used for phonetic transcription. 2. 
The phonetic language-also known as the 'spelling alphabet' or the NATO phonetic alphabet-is used by professional communicators, especially police, military and other emergency and armed forces, to identify letters precisely, either when communicating initials, abbreviations or spellings of words. the international phonetic alphabet (spelling alphabet), used in police, military, emergency services, aviation and general communications-and cockney alphabet (for fun).
Phonetic alphabet. An alphabet that has an assigned name to each of the letters. For example, to say computer while using the phonetic alphabet you would say . C harlie-O scar-M ike-P apa-U niform-T ango-E cho-R omeo. Using the phonetic alphabet is extremely useful for computer support and anyone else on a phone call that needs to spell out what is being said or needs to be typed. Below is an example of the commonly used NATO phonetic alphabet. 
This chart contains all the sounds (phonemes) used in the English language. For each sound, it gives: The symbol from the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), as used in phonetic transcriptions in modern dictionaries for English learners — that is, in A. C. Gimson’s phonemic system with a few additional symbols. The chart represents British and American phonemes with one symbol