Memorial Day Memorial Day is a United States federal holiday that  is observed on the last Monday of May (most recently observed May  26, 2014).    It was formerly kn … own as Decoration Day. This holiday began in 1868  and commemorates U.S. men and women who have died in military  service to their country. The supremacy clause in the US constitution gives the central  government overall authority over the states. The supremacy clause  reflects the enumerated powers given to co … ngress in the 10th  amendment.
Empowered with the sovereign authority of the people by the framers and the consent of the legislatures of the states, it is the source of all government powers, and also provides important limitations on the government that protect the fundamental rights of United States citizens. The Constitution is the supreme law of the land in the United States. Learn more about our founding document.
The Constitution is considered the supreme law of the land both because of its content and because its authority is derived from the people. The concepts and ideas of the Constitution are the higher law in the United States of America, things which a government cannot create or destroy. Among these concepts and ideas is the notion that the people are sovereign and that legitimate governments must be based on popular consent.
The Supremacy Clause of the United States Constitution gives the  federal government authority over states. It mandates that judges  at the state level, must follow federal … law when a conflict arises  between state law and federal law. Answered. In US Constitution. The supremacy clause in the US constitution gives the central  government overall authority over the states. The supremacy clause  reflects the enumerated powers given to co … ngress in the 10th  amendment.
The Supremacy Clause of the United States Constitution gives the  federal government authority over states. It mandates that judges  at the state level, must follow federal … law when a conflict arises  between state law and federal law. GB. Plan. The full faith and credit clause of Article IV of the US constitution forces states to recognize the public acts and records of other states.   However, there is … a phrase in Article IV that allows congress to regulate this.
The President...shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment. The power to pardon is one of the least limited powers granted to the President in the Constitution. The only limits mentioned in the Constitution are that pardons are limited to offenses against the United States (i.e., not civil or state cases), and that they cannot affect an impeachment process. 
To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof. Section. 9. And they shall make a List of all the Persons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for each; which List they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the Government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate.
Features of the Constitution. The United States Constitution was groundbreaking in numerous ways, establishing a new government, the likes of which the world had never seen. Indeed, the very features which made it unique have also contributed to its longevity. The concepts and ideas of the Constitution are the higher law in the United States of America, things which a government cannot create or destroy. Among these concepts and ideas is the notion that the people are sovereign and that legitimate governments must be based on popular consent.
The United States is a federal constitutional republic, in which the President of the United States (the head of state and head of government), Congress, and judiciary share powers reserved to the national government, and the federal government shares sovereignty with the state governments. The federal entity created by the U.S. Constitution is the dominant feature of the American governmental system. However, most people are also subject to a state government, and all are subject to various units of local government.