Muscle cars are part of an enduring high-speed American subculture that originated in the 1960s. But the era is far from over, and modern-day muscle cars for 2014 are making their debuts in showrooms at this very moment. Karl Brauer, a senior director at the car valuation and analysis company Kelley Blue Book, provided his list of classic muscle cars in April.
Introduction: Perhaps the most common question people have is what exactly is a muscle car. The term wasn’t even used until the late 1970s, in the 1960s there were often called “Super Cars” if called anything at all. Therefore, the actual definition of a muscle car, or which models were muscle cars, is a topic that is often disputed. Here is the general interpretation of what is a muscle car and what cars qualify, and which don’t. 
According to Muscle Cars, a book written by Peter Henshaw, a muscle car is exactly what the name implies. It is a product of the American car industry adhering to the hot rodder 's philosophy of taking a small car and putting a large-displacement engine in it. Studebaker entered the muscle car scene in 1956 with the Golden Hawk powered by a 352 CI Packard V8 with 275 bhp. In 1957, the Rambler Rebel was the fastest stock American sedan, according to Motor Trend.
Muscle car is an American term used to refer to a variety of high-performance automobiles. The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines muscle cars as any of a group of American-made 2-door sports coupes with powerful engines designed for high-performance driving.. A large V8 engine is fitted in a 2-door, rear wheel drive, family-style mid-size or full-size car designed for four or more passengers. Studebaker entered the muscle car scene in 1956 with the Golden Hawk powered by a 352 CI Packard V8 with 275 bhp. In 1957, the Rambler Rebel was the fastest stock American sedan, according to Motor Trend.
The Australian muscle car era is considered to have ended with the release of the Australian Design Rule regarding emissions in ADR27a in 1976. An exception to this rule was the small number of factory-built Bathurst 1000 homologation specials that were constructed after 1976; these are considered to be muscle cars. Studebaker entered the muscle car scene in 1956 with the Golden Hawk powered by a 352 CI Packard V8 with 275 bhp. In 1957, the Rambler Rebel was the fastest stock American sedan, according to Motor Trend.
Some might disagree with the Corvette being included as a muscle car. That's because muscle cars were supposed to be affordable. The truth is, the Corvette is the American version of the European sports car and no other American car comes close in terms of sheer intensity and style. AMC might not be an obvious choice when looking for a muscle car. If you want a car that's not something you will see on the street all that often, though, the Javelin is a great choice. It was AMC's entry into the pony car market and came standard with a 360 cubic inch engine that delivers about 350 horsepower.
While some people have definite opinions about what qualifies as a muscle car and what doesn't, the term usually applies to two-door, rear-wheel-drive, small to midsize cars with large, powerful eight-valve (V8) engines. Muscle cars became popular with young drivers in the mid-1960s. Many muscle car enthusiasts believe the 1949 Oldsmobile Rocket 88 was the first true muscle car. It boasted America's first overhead valve V8 in a relatively light body, giving it a lot of power and speed. Manufacturers began to compete, offering more powerful engines year after year.
When you think muscle car many picture a prehistoric V8 belching exhaust and cheesy rock music. The 2015 Ford Mustang is not that car. They've chopped the number of cylinders in half and added a host of new tech so they can promise more power, performance, and, yes, even efficiency. The Mustang didn't become a muscle car for a few years. It was a pony car and this Mustang carries on that tradition. From the rear, there's a touching tribute to original fastback Mustangs. It looks like it should be a liftback, actually.
Some argue that pony cars, such as the Ford Mustang and Chevrolet Camaro, aren't muscle cars at all, but for this list, Bankrate chose not to make that distinction. Manufacturers engineered muscle cars for straight-line speed, inspiring more than an occasional Saturday night drag race between traffic lights. Because it is a genre that enthusiasts are passionate about, you are bound to generate some criticism when compiling a list of the seven greatest muscle cars of all time. However, Bankrate stuck its neck out to do just that.