February 1, 2012 in Herbs & Spices. What it is: Watercress belongs to the same family as Brussels sprouts, broccoli, cauliflower and cabbage. This family of vegetables is known as the Brassicacaea family. Watercress also is a strong natural antibiotic. It also contains B1, B2, B6, C, E, manganese, carotene, calcium, fiber, iron and copper. Eating small amounts of watercress regularly however, can prevent prostate or colon cancer. Other Uses: When the juice of the watercress is applied to the hair and scalp, it can help the hair grow thicker, healthier and more luxuriously. Your ads will be inserted here by. AdSense Now! . Please go to the plugin admin page to paste your ad code
Watercress, a slightly sweet and spicy green that you won’t find at every market, is an amazingly delicious green to enjoy when you get the chance. Reminiscent of arugula and spinach combined, you’ll find it often still with the roots attached or even sold in small water pots at stores like Whole Foods. The cruciferous veggies like watercress, kale, broccoli, cabbage, etc., all topped the list while other leafy greens such as spinach, romaine, and beet greens also ranked high on the list.
One of the best culinary aspects of watercress is its versatility. It can be used as a salad green (a very nutritious one!) with Romaine lettuce or fresh spinach, steamed and eaten as a vegetable, and in soups for a subtle, peppery flavor. You could call watercress the first fast food. It was a free and therefore important source of sustenance throughout Europe and the US in the 19th century. Given the nickname poor man's bread, bunches were often rolled into a cone and eaten as an on-the-go breakfast sandwich – much less expensive than the real thing.
The best way to consume watercress is in the fresh, raw form, as the most potent parts of it are present in the fresh juice. How it Tastes: Watercress has a bitter tang to it. It also is quite spicy and hot, making it a popular addition to plain or neutrally flavored foods. Eating small amounts of watercress regularly however, can prevent prostate or colon cancer. Other Uses: When the juice of the watercress is applied to the hair and scalp, it can help the hair grow thicker, healthier and more luxuriously. Your ads will be inserted here by. AdSense Now! . Please go to the plugin admin page to paste your ad code
Young leaves contain less mustard oil and so have a milder flavour. Curiously the peppery taste of watercress has a cooling effect, a paradox that was noted by the celebrated 14th century French chef Taillevent, who was also the first person to include it on a menu. It's not a good idea to eat watercress found growing in the wild though, as it's likely to be polluted and may carry liver fluke. Cultivated watercress is grown on washed gravel and nourished with pure fresh spring water.
In Germany watercress is eaten with meats, sausages and smoked fish. I like to serve watercress with sea trout or salmon, where its refreshing flavour is the perfect complement to the rich tasting fish. It's not a good idea to eat watercress found growing in the wild though, as it's likely to be polluted and may carry liver fluke. Cultivated watercress is grown on washed gravel and nourished with pure fresh spring water.
Watercress isn't just for salads. Carol Wilson celebrates the unique taste of this versatile seasonal vegetable. I'm all for using seasonal British foods. Apart from the issue of food miles, eating foods grown on our doorstep is much better for us, as they're more in tune with nature and are tastier and fresher. It's not a good idea to eat watercress found growing in the wild though, as it's likely to be polluted and may carry liver fluke. Cultivated watercress is grown on washed gravel and nourished with pure fresh spring water.
This should not be confused with the quite different group of plants with the common name of nasturtium, botanical name Tropaeolum. Watercress is a rapidly growing, aquatic or semi-aquatic, perennial plant native to Europe and Asia, and one of the oldest known leaf vegetables consumed by humans. Watercress is also a significant source of omega-3 fatty acids primarily in the form of 16:3 n-3 (hexadecatrienoic acid) at 45 mg/100 g. Many benefits from eating watercress are claimed, such as that it acts as a stimulant, a source of phytochemicals and antioxidants, a diuretic, an expectorant, and a digestive aid.
Toss gently with the watercress and spinach. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Place all dressing ingredients in a blender and blend until smooth. Drizzle dressing over salad and garnish with grated carrot and toasted sesame seeds. You could call watercress the first fast food. It was a free and therefore important source of sustenance throughout Europe and the US in the 19th century. Given the nickname poor man's bread, bunches were often rolled into a cone and eaten as an on-the-go breakfast sandwich – much less expensive than the real thing.