Tariff structure. For the purpose of the tariff, the transmission network has been split into four separate systems: three entry and one exit. There are four sets of transmission tariffs (capacity tariff and commodity tariff) as follows: The tariff calculations are based on the allowable revenue, as agreed with the Commission for Energy Regulation (CER), and forecast demands. Allowable revenue is calculated to reward the Gas Networks Ireland investment in each of the transmission systems and also to recover allowable operating costs.
Transmission, Markets, and Services Tariff. Created and authorized by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), ISO New England operates under the ISO New England Inc. Visit the Market Rule 1 page. Market Rule 1 governs the operation of New England’s wholesale electricity markets. It includes detailed information on pricing, scheduling, offering, bidding, settlement, and other procedures related to the purchase and sale of electricity.
The transmission tariffs consist of capacity and commodity charges that apply for use of the transmission natural gas network systems. The tariff calculations are based on the allowable revenue, as agreed with the Commission for Energy Regulation (CER), and forecast demands. Allowable revenue is calculated to reward the Gas Networks Ireland investment in each of the transmission systems and also to recover allowable operating costs.
Welcome to the Billing section of the PJM Manual for Open Access Transmission Tariff Accounting. In this section, you will find the following information:  A summary of the billing process for the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (see “ Billing Process Overview ”). For more information on. Manual 27: Open Access Transmission Tariff Accounting Section 7: Black Start Service Accounting PJM © 2015 Revision 85, Effective Date: 07/15/2015 31 Black start unit revenue requirements, please see Schedule 6A, PJM’s Open Access Transmission Tariff (OATT).
On September 16, 2005, the Commission sought comment thru a Notice of Inquiry (NOI) regarding whether the pro forma open access transmission tariff (OATT) adopted in Order No. 888 needs reform in light of the changes in the electric utility industry. 
Open Access Transmission Tariff. Electronic transmission tariff accepted by the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission requiring the Transmission Service Provider to furnish to all shippers with non-discriminating service comparable to that provided by Transmission Owners to themselves.
The Commission amends its regulations and the pro forma open access transmission tariff (pro forma OATT), adopted in Order No. 888, to remedy opportunities for undue discrimination and address deficiencies in the pro forma OATT that have become apparent since the issuance of these orders. The major reforms are: 1 Rehearing Order pro forma OATT (Version reflecting redline/strikeout changes from Final Rule pro forma OATT). 2  Rehearing Order pro forma OATT (Rehearing Order version of the pro forma OATT adopted in Order No. 890-A).
A tariff is a tax on imports or exports (an international trade tariff). In other languages and very occasionally in English, tariff or its equivalent may also be used to describe any list of prices (electrical tariff, etc.). A customs duty or due is the indirect tax levied on the import or export of goods in international trade. In economic sense, a duty is also a kind of consumption tax. A duty levied on goods being imported is referred to as an import duty. Similarly, a duty levied on exports is called an export duty.
Open Access Transmission Tariff. Effective Date: November 21, 2013 V2 11. 1.51 Transmission Provider ’ s Monthly Transmission System Peak (Intentionally Omitted) 1.52 Transmission Service Point-To-Point Transmission Service provided under Part II of the Tariff on a firm and non-firm basis. Open Access Transmission Tariff. Effective Date: November 21, 2013 V2 86. 32.2 System Impact Study Agreement and Cost Reimbursement (i) The System Impact Study Agreement will clearly specify the Transmission Provider’s estimate of the actual cost, and time for completion of the System Impact Study.
Transmission, Markets, and Services Tariff (ISO Tariff) is known as the Open Access Transmission Tariff (OATT). The OATT: 1  Helps ensure that all transmission owners and transmission customers have fair and open access to transmission service in New England. 