Why are there so many black people in commercials? I think black people should not be in commercials, like have you seen the recent PSP commercials with that marcus kid? It's the same with sexism, I have no idea how many commercials I've seen where woman are saying things like, It's so easy, even a man can do it, If a man did that, there'd be uproar. There's nothing really you can do about it. #6.
I think it is ridiculous that so many people on ads look racially mixed, and I think it's ridiculous that we're supposed to think that there are as many black, hispanics, gays, etc., as there are ordinary, white guys out there. 
The only real problem with Barry is that he is a typical black and that, in fact, a lot of people outside the US actually think we voted this sack of shit into office--especially when every black in the US don't mind lying for the guy. As to why so many blacks on TV... I for one am boycotting any show or product sponsor that uses this technique. There is also a lot of mixed race relationships being pushed because the real goal of black men is to get a white girl and many white girls with low self esteem are falling for it.
If you don't have several people of different races in commercials prepared to have a law suit on your hands. It's the same with sexism, I have no idea how many commercials I've seen where woman are saying things like, It's so easy, even a man can do it, If a man did that, there'd be uproar. There's nothing really you can do about it. #6.
It seems that Jewish advertisers are making a conscious effort to flood the internet with black faces. Here is a video showing just how many black faces one runs across on the internet. I have, for a very long time, been using Adblock plus, but still I feel like everywhere I look, I see black instead of White faces. Youtube Description: Internet and TV ads embody deliberately unrealistic racial demographic
About 2980 of us are as white as paper, but the commercials we are exposed to tend to come from NewYork or toronto, and Toronto is only about 25% white people. We essentially never see black families in our town, even though there are at least 100,000 black people living just a 40 minute drive away (Ottawa). Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: ive noticed this lately too ,lots of black people on tv, and if the commercial only has one black person, hes usually the boss, or the guy who sets everything straight, i guess it wouldn't be politically correct if theres a black guy in the commercial and hes not the boss.
The media is going way overboard with bm/ww couples as if they're the only type of interracial couple on the planet. The media is trying to make black men look better to be more desired; it's a good thing that every white woman isn't brainwashed to believe this such as yourself. I guess that can be traced back to slavery and the idea that black men were more powerful and virile than white men which is still a fear, and is why you don't see black men on television with white women, this was conjured up in your head so you could troll. Midget2985 · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 4.
The number of blacks on TV and in commercials in way out of proportion to the percentae of blacks in the population. I'm not a racist, but I do feel resentment that this political correctness is being forced on us. ELBK · 2 months ago. Thumbs up. 7. Thumbs down. 0. 1 comment. Loading ... Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: ive noticed this lately too ,lots of black people on tv, and if the commercial only has one black person, hes usually the boss, or the guy who sets everything straight, i guess it wouldn't be politically correct if theres a black guy in the commercial and hes not the boss.
Report Abuse. There are interracial couples on all commercials now, even commercials with all white family they throw a black child in the mix -- are they doing it to make it seem like its in everyday life. I guess that can be traced back to slavery and the idea that black men were more powerful and virile than white men which is still a fear, and is why you don't see black men on television with white women, this was conjured up in your head so you could troll. Midget2985 · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 4.