Import Excel Data into Access To store data from Excel in an Access database, and then use and maintain the data in Access from then on, you can import the data. When you import data, Access stores the data in a new or existing table without altering the data in Excel. You can import only one worksheet at a time during an import operation. To import data from multiple worksheets, repeat the import operation for each worksheet.
Once exported, open the other company file and import the data. Note that there are some fields that must be exported so that your data can be matched to records in your import file. Required fields depend on the type of data you're transferring and are indicated with a caret ^ or asterisks * in the export window. You can choose either comma-separated or tab-separated format. Exporting to another company file. You can export data such as an accounts list or customer list to import into another AccountRight company file. The procedure below explains how to export data. You'll need to export each type of data separately (for example, your accounts list and then your customer list).
You can also export the contents of a field to a file. For more information, see Exporting the contents of a field in the FileMaker Help file. To export FileMaker Pro data to be used in another application: 1  Open the FileMaker Pro file, and display a layout that shows the records you want to export. 1 To use an exported file, open an application that can read the file format, and then open the exported file. 2  To use FileMaker Pro as a data source to serve FileMaker Pro data via ODBC or JDBC, see Sharing FileMaker Pro data via ODBC or JDBC.
You can export FileMaker Pro data to a new file and then open it in another application. You can also save records as a spreadsheet for use in Microsoft Excel. For more information, see Saving and sending records as an Excel file in the FileMaker Help file. 1 To use an exported file, open an application that can read the file format, and then open the exported file. 2  To use FileMaker Pro as a data source to serve FileMaker Pro data via ODBC or JDBC, see Sharing FileMaker Pro data via ODBC or JDBC.
View CRM data in a pivot table. Export to an Excel PivotTable. When you export data in Excel (.xlsx format) and then add or modify columns, you can't import the data back in to CRM. This is not support for .xlsx file format. If you're using Excel 2010, \ you may get this error message when you export data from Accounts area: “The file is corrupt and cannot be opened.”.
“Read” on the records. You can use the Data Loader export wizard to extract data from any Salesforce object. When you export, you can choose to include (Export All) or exclude (Export) soft-deleted records. 1  Open the Data Loader. 2  Click Export or Export All. 3  These commands can also be found in the File menu. 4  Enter your Salesforce username and password. 5  Click Log in to log in. 
Now you can do this when you export your data to Microsoft Excel or Excel Online to do a quick data analysis. Also, analyzing large datasets is not a problem because you can export up to 100,000 rows of data. You can choose to export static worksheets or dynamic worksheets, which you can import back into CRM. When you export data in Excel (.xlsx format) and then add or modify columns, you can't import the data back in to CRM. This is not support for .xlsx file format. If you're using Excel 2010, \ you may get this error message when you export data from Accounts area: “The file is corrupt and cannot be opened.”.
If your shapes contain data, you can run the Database Export Wizard to create a database table that contains that data. The difference between the Database Export Wizard and the dialog box that is reached by using the Export to Database command is that through the wizard you can choose to export all shapes on a layer. If you want to change how data will be exported from ShapeSheet cells, do one of the following: Add a ShapeSheet cell to the export list. Click Add. Select the ShapeSheet cell that you want to export. In the Evaluate as box, select the data type for the value that is stored in the database field.
You can use that command instead of the export command in Access; however, the Excel import command only allows you to import tables or queries. For more information, see the Excel Help article Connect to (import) external data. You cannot export macros or modules to Excel. 
Export data to a standard Excel file that that you can use on any device such as your phone, tablet, or desktop computer. The data is exported in the same format as you see in CRM. Text will remain text, numbers will remain numbers, and dates will remain dates. When you export data in Excel (.xlsx format) and then add or modify columns, you can't import the data back in to CRM. This is not support for .xlsx file format. If you're using Excel 2010, \ you may get this error message when you export data from Accounts area: “The file is corrupt and cannot be opened.”.