Confidence votes 261K. The english translation of 'Buon appetito' translates to 'Enjoy your meal' from italian. There are different spoken forms of languages around the world, so you may find that there is multiple meanings to this phrase. Buon giorno, buon'amica mia! in Italian means Good day, my  friend! to a female in English. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Derdriu Marriner. 1,272,910 Contributions. I am an arborist.
Good day is a literal English equivalent of the Italian phrase Buon giorno. Specifically, the masculine adjective buono* means good in English. The masculine noun giorno … translates literally as day but sometimes as morning in English. The pronunciation will be bwohn DJOHR-noh in Italian. Merry Christmas is an English equivalent of the  Italian phrase Buon Natale. The masculine singular  adjective and noun in question translate literally into English as   … good nativity.. The pronunciation will be BWON na-TA-ley in  Italian.
Bon appetit appétit is often used In, english especially By. Francophiles the literal translation sounds, strange and the Best english, Equivalent enjoy your, meal just'doesn t have the same ring to. it Literal translation: good appetite. Register: normal. Notes: Before I moved to France, people were always telling me that no one says bon appetit appétit, anymore or that only a certain economic class still uses the, term or some other criticism of this. expression
The english translation of 'Buon appetito' translates to 'Enjoy your meal' from italian. There are different spoken forms of languages around the world, so you may find that t … here is multiple meanings to this phrase. Merry Christmas is an English equivalent of the  Italian phrase Buon Natale. The masculine singular  adjective and noun in question translate literally into English as   … good nativity.. The pronunciation will be BWON na-TA-ley in  Italian.
Merry Christmas is an English equivalent of the  Italian phrase Buon Natale. The masculine singular  adjective and noun in question translate literally into English as   … good nativity.. The pronunciation will be BWON na-TA-ley in  Italian. Buon giorno, buon'amica mia! in Italian means Good day, my  friend! to a female in English. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Derdriu Marriner. 1,272,910 Contributions. I am an arborist.
Enjoy your meal! is an English equivalent of the Italian phrase Buon appetito ! The masculine singular adjective and noun literally translate into English as Good appetite!. Merry Christmas is an English equivalent of the  Italian phrase Buon Natale. The masculine singular  adjective and noun in question translate literally into English as   … good nativity.. The pronunciation will be BWON na-TA-ley in  Italian.
You can, of course, say “Buon appetito” back but you can also say, “Grazie, altrettanto” , which is the equivalent of saying, “The same to you” . 
These are phrases used to at the beginning or end of meals and mean something like have a good meal / enjoy your meal. There is no exact English equivalent of this, though some people say bon appetit, particularly in restaurants. Many people say grace, a short prayer recited before or after a meal to invoke a blessing upon the food or to give thanks for it. People who have contributed to this section. If you would like to make any corrections or additions to this page, or if you can provide recordings, please contact me.
Bon appetit appétit in many. Languages these are phrases used to at the beginning or end of meals and mean something like have a good / meal enjoy your. Meal there is no Exact english equivalent of, this though some people say bon, appetit particularly in. restaurants Many people say grace, a short prayer recited before or after a meal to invoke a blessing upon the food or to give thanks for it. People who have contributed to this section. If you would like to make any corrections or additions to this page, or if you can provide recordings, please contact me.