Your brain has a little bunch of cells on each side called the amygdala (say: uh-mig-duh-luh). The word amygdala is Latin for almond, and that's what this area looks like. Scientists believe that the amygdala is responsible for emotion. It's normal to feel all different kinds of emotions, good and bad. The more primitive parts of that emotion involve the hypothalamus. The verbal parts involve the speech areas. The parts of emotions that compel us to do something, anything, are not as well understood, but it's not one brain area or one neurotransmitter that is doing that.
Depends on which feelings you're interested in. The paliocortex (aka the thalamus or brain stem) runs the deepest emotions, the olfactory lobe locks in the strongest con … scious emotions, but every specialized section of the brain controls the feelings that are associated with that particular function. Many parts of the brain contribute to emotion, but the Amygdala is usually considered to be the correct answer to this question. The Amygdala stores and classifies emotional m … emories and is responsible for producing emotional responses, especially fear.
The biggest part of the brain is the cerebrum. It makes up about 85 % of the brain's weight. Its surface has a lot of wrinkles and cracks. The cerebrum is the thinking part of the brain. It controls your muscles and makes them move when you want them to. The Human Brain. The human brain is a very powerful organ. It controls all parts of the body and allows you to think, feel, move your arms and legs and it helps you stay healthy. The brain looks like a pink sponge and consists of a mass of nerve cells.
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe. Many different parts of the brain and their functions are shown in the article. The human brain is ultimately responsible for all thought and movement that the body produces.
Depends on which feelings you're interested in. The paliocortex (aka the thalamus or brain stem) runs the deepest emotions, the olfactory lobe locks in the strongest con … scious emotions, but every specialized section of the brain controls the feelings that are associated with that particular function. The face is the body part that is associated with the greatest  amount of brain tissue in the motor cortex. The motor cortex is the  part of the brain that does the controll … ing and execution of  movements.
Cerebrum. The cerebrum or sometimes called cortex is the largest part of the brain. The cerebrum is the one responsible for the different thoughts and actions. It consists of two equal halves called the left and right hemispheres. They are connected through a corpus collosum. The brain has three main parts: the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. Forebrain. This part of the brain is located at the area of our forehead. The forebrain is responsible for the different feelings of emotions, organizing, planning, memory, reasoning, speech, movement, visual processing, and others.
Brain Stem. The brain stem is below the cerebrum and in front of the cerebellum. It connects the brain to your spinal cord. This part of the brain controls the functions your body needs in order to stay alive and it is in charge of things that happen automatically. Breathing, body temperature, pain, hunger and heartbeats are all managed by the brain stem. The Human Brain. The human brain is a very powerful organ. It controls all parts of the body and allows you to think, feel, move your arms and legs and it helps you stay healthy. The brain looks like a pink sponge and consists of a mass of nerve cells.
Feelings and emotions are very complex and there is now one single part of the brain that functions to deal with feelings. Rather, what is involved is a system in the brain that interrelates several brain areas into one system called the limbic system. This is where emotions are processed and memories are stored. The face is the body part that is associated with the greatest  amount of brain tissue in the motor cortex. The motor cortex is the  part of the brain that does the controll … ing and execution of  movements.
This system contains the thalamus, hypothalamus, amygdala, and hippocampus. Hypothalamus Hypothalamus is part of the diencephalon, ventral to the thalamus. Its functions include homeostasis, emotion, thirst, hunger, circadian rhythms, and control of the autonomic nervous system. In addition, it controls the pituitary. 