Not to be confused with Catechin, also sometimes called catechol. Also not to be confused with the taxonomic umbrella-term Catch-all of a type or genus. Catechol, also known as pyrocatechol or 1,2-dihydroxybenzene, is an organic compound with the molecular formula C 6 H 4 (OH) 2. It is the ortho isomer of the three isomeric benzenediols. This colorless compound occurs naturally in trace amounts. (The name catechol has also been used as a chemical class name, where it refers generally to the catechins .).
Add 1 cm3 of catechol solution to each boiling tube. The catechol is a substrate for the enzyme to act on.9. Finally, add 1 cm3 of the enzyme, catechol oxidase, extracted from the banana, to each boiling tube.10. Filter the contents of each test tube with the No. 6 filter papers. 
Methods. Catechol oxidase is the enzyme responsible for the browning of fruit. It is easy to prepare from a number of different sources – bananas are particularly good – and the reaction is readily followed using a colorimeter. Investigating the effect of pH. A reaction mix containing 0.01M catechol should give a good response at 25°C. (0.3mls 0.1M catechol + 2.6mls buffer added to 0.1mls enzyme extract in a standard cuvette). The initial straight line portion of the graph of absorbance against time gives V i – the initial rate of reaction.
Catechol oxidase carries out the oxidation of phenols such as catechol, using dioxygen (O 2). In the presence of catechol, benzoquinone is formed (see reaction below). Hydrogens removed from catechol combine with oxygen to form water. Catechol is present in small quantities in the vacuoles of cells of many plant tissues. Catechol oxidase is present in the cell cytoplasm. If the plant tissues are damaged, the catechol is released and the enzyme converts the catechol to ortho-quinone, which is a natural antiseptic.
Write down your hypothesis about the effect of the range of pH on enzyme activity: Set up 7 test tubes with 40 drops of a different buffered pH solution in each. Add 10 drops of potato extract to each and stir. Then add 10 drops of 1% catechol to each and stir. We will be using the enzyme catecholase (or catechol oxidase) that is common in plants; it is present in the freshly squeezed potato juice that has been provided. The substrates of catecholase are catechol and oxygen. The substrates react with one another within the active site of the enzyme.
When you begin handling the Catechol solution you will need to use gloves and safety glasses or goggles as it is a poison with a splash hazard. Report all spills to your instructor immediately. Any solution contaminated with catechol must be disposed of in the toxic waste beaker in the hood. 1 Mix 1 mL of the supernatant (crude extract) with 19 mL of ice cold deionized water (see bottle in refrigerator) to make 20 mL of dilute extract. 2  This will be your enzyme solution so keep it on ice. 3  Set vortexer to touch and the speed to between 5 & 6. 4  Do not add catechol to the tubes until ready with a stopwatch
Catechol oxidase is an enzyme that catalyses the oxidation of phenols such as catechol. Catechol oxidase is a copper-containing enzyme whose activity is similar to that of tyrosinase, a related class of copper oxidases. Catechol is present in small quantities in the vacuoles of cells of many plant tissues. Catechol oxidase is present in the cell cytoplasm. If the plant tissues are damaged, the catechol is released and the enzyme converts the catechol to ortho-quinone, which is a natural antiseptic.
As such it would be 0.1 g (pure catechol) in 100 ml or 1 g in 1000 ml on a m/v basis. I know biologists aren't good at maths, but this does take the biscuit. Don't tar us all with the same brush, I do this for a living! (Original post by ChemistBoy). As such it would be 0.1 g (pure catechol) in 100 ml or 1 g in 1000 ml on a m/v basis. I know biologists aren't good at maths, but this does take the biscuit. Last edited by ChemistBoy; 24-11-2009 at 18:19. vinylate.
The reaction catalysed is the oxidation of catechol to the yellow product 1,2-benzoquinone. catechol + ½O 2 → 1,2-benzoquinone + H 2 O. On exposure to air there is a further reaction in which the yellow benzoquinone is converted to dark brown melanin. Investigating the effect of pH. A reaction mix containing 0.01M catechol should give a good response at 25°C. (0.3mls 0.1M catechol + 2.6mls buffer added to 0.1mls enzyme extract in a standard cuvette). The initial straight line portion of the graph of absorbance against time gives V i – the initial rate of reaction.