Ivory (. ). Ivory is an off-white color that resembles ivory, the material out of which the teeth and tusks of animals (such as the elephant and the walrus) are made. It has a very slight tint of yellow. The first recorded use of ivory as a color name in English was in 1385. Colors often considered shades of white include, cream, eggshell, ivory, Navajo white, and vanilla. Even the lighting of a room, however, can cause a pure white to be perceived as off-white. Off-white colors were pervasively paired with beiges in the 1930s, and especially popular again from roughly 1955 to 1975.
• Yellow Sapphire. • Zircon. This is a hard, white, elastic, fine-grained substance obtained from the tusks of the elephant, walrus, sperm whale and hippopotamus, this last variety being the best. The colour of ivory ranges from white to yellowish white, to brownish white, the commonest shade being pale cream. Ivory can be distinguished from bone by virtue of the fine tubules running through it with a spiral course which indicate the growth of the tooth. These are not present in bone. Ivory comes from Africa and Asia.
While it is a relaxing color, beige is often seen as a dull and boring color. A similar color to beige is ivory, a neutral, relaxing, and calming color, has some of the same pureness and softness of the color white, but with a warmer tone. Ivory represents quiet and pleasantness. This post is part of the Color Meaning Blog Series, detailing the meanings associated with colors such as red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, grey, black, white, brown, pink, turquoise, gold, silver, and beige. Beige is dependable, conservative, and flexible.
Ivory is an opaque white or yellowish white substance that is not a gemstone or mineral, it is actually organic in nature. Sometimes called an organic mineral, Ivory is extremely valuable and very attractive to the sight and to the touch. Following is some information on the different colors, shapes and sizes that Ivory is available in. Ivory usually comes in two colors, white and whitish yellow, many people usually call it off white. The whiter the Ivory, usually the higher the price, usually Ivory can turn a tinge of yellow if it is an older piece, but for the most part, it is extremely exquisite and beautiful
Ivory is a soft neutral color that isn't quite white and has some of the earthiness of light brown or beige. Ivory represents quiet, pleasantness with a touch of luster. Nature and Culture of Ivory: As a neutral, ivory is a calming color. It carries some of the same pureness, softness, and cleanliness of white but is slightly richer, a touch warmer. The ivory tusks of elephants have long been prized and used in jewelry and the decoration of housewares and furniture. Using Ivory with Other Colors: Ivory with light peach, pale grassy green, and light browns has an earthy feel but softer than other natural palettes. Use a touch of ivory to lighten and brighten medium and dark orange, blue, green, purple, or turquoise.
Metal: Gold-tone metal Stones: Clear crystals Other Stones: Ivory stones Closure: Lobster clasp Jewelry photos are enlarged to show detail. Free Shipping $99+ JCPenney FINE JEWELRY Natasha Crystal Flower Statement Necklace $112.48 $56.24 Activate Sale Alert Statement cuff bracelet. Gold-plated metal; Resin Length: 36 Lobster claw clasp Vince Camuto Ivory Triple Layer Spike Necklace $78 Activate Sale Alert Instilling the mountaineer spirit with this season's signature D-ring, this car coat from 3.1 Phillip Lim will cloak the savvy sophisticate in warmth and style.
Ivory is an off-white color that resembles ivory, the material from which the teeth and tusks of animals (such as, notably, the elephant and the walrus) is made. It has a very slight tint of yellow. The first recorded use of ivory as a color name in English was in 1385. 