Some of the abiotic factors in the boreal are, rivers, lakes, mountains, rocks, and precipitation (rain, snow, hail). 
Contribution of Biotic Factors. All of the biotic(living) factors in the boreal forest/taiga contribute to other biotic factors and us humans by providing food and many other things. Some examples are: cleaning other animals, benefiting both factors; helping with offspring; and cleaning the environment. Contribution of Abiotic Factors. There aren't many contributions of the abiotic (nonliving) factors in this biome except for the more common ones like water and dirt.
Abiotic factors are all of the non-living things that are components of a habitat, such as sunlight, temperature, rainfall and soil conditions. Abiotic factors play an important role in ecosystems because they determine the conditions in which the plants and animals live, and to which they must adapt. Sunlight. Since boreal forests are found in the northern regions, they may receive up to 20 hours of sunlight per day in the summer, while during the winter daylight is limited to just a few short hours.
Boreal forest is the term used to refer to the southern part of this biome, while taiga is used to describe the more barren northern areas of the Arctic tree line. Abiotic 1. climate-temperature, precipitation 2. geography 3. soil-minerals, nutrients 4. water availability Biotic 1. Animals that inhabit the forest 2. Answers. Best Answer: In biology, abiotic components are non-living chemical and physical factors in the environment. Biotic means relating to, produced by, or caused by living organisms. Taiga (pronounced /ˈtaɪgə/, from Turkic[1] or Mongolian) is a biome characterized by coniferous forests.
1 –moderate precipitation and high humidity. – 2 soil is acidic and nutrient-poor. 3  Biotic Factors – Plant Life –conical shape of conifers sheds snow, –wax-covered needlelike leaves prevent excess water loss. – 4 dark green color of most conifers absorbs heat energy. 1 abiotic factors climate and soil type biotic factors  plant and animal life. 2  3. Lesson OverviewLesson Overview BiomesBiomes Factors that affect global climate Latitude heat area’s proximity to an ocean or mountain range.
Some of the Abiotic Factors in the Boreal Forest. The boreal forest, also known as the taiga, is a biome that is primarily found in the northern regions of the world, including Eurasia, northern Europe and North America. Sunlight. Since boreal forests are found in the northern regions, they may receive up to 20 hours of sunlight per day in the summer, while during the winter daylight is limited to just a few short hours.
Types of Taiga: Light and Dark. Like fine chocolate, boreal forests come in two flavors: light and dark. The dark taiga is commonly found in the southern range, where the climate and soil conditions are more favorable for plants and thick stands of Spruce and Hemlock create a closed canopy. Fire is another common disturbance in the dry areas of a boreal forest. In this case, mature trees normally survive the blaze, but young trees and ground cover burn quickly, recycling their nutrients back into the soil.
Abiotic factors such as temperature, sunlight and precipitation play an important role in the boreal forest biome. Learn about the abiotic factors in the boreal forest. Sunlight. Since boreal forests are found in the northern regions, they may receive up to 20 hours of sunlight per day in the summer, while during the winter daylight is limited to just a few short hours.