(Make the Sign of the Cross) In the name of the Father, etc. [Top] Prayer for the Beatification of the Servant of God Frank Duff God our Father, You inspired your servant Frank Duff with a profound insight into the mystery of your Church, the Body of Christ, and of the place of Mary the Mother of Jesus in this mystery. OPENING PRAYERS. (Make the Sign of the Cross). In the name of the Father, etc. Come, O Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of Your faithful, and enkindle in them the fire of Your love. v. Send forth Your Spirit, O Lord, and they shall be created. R. And You shall renew the face of the earth. Let us pray.
In the name of the Father, The Son, and Holy Spirit, Amen. Come Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of your faithful, and enkindle in them the fire of your love. V. Send forth your Spirit, O Lord, and they shall be created. In the Name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, Amen. We fly to your patronage, O Holy Mother of God; despise not our prayers in our necessities, but ever deliver us from all dangers, O glorious and Blessed Virgin.
(Handbook p. 148) In the name of the Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. †. A leaflet called the Tessera, containing the Prayers of the Legion and bearing a reproduction of the Legion Picture, shall be issued to every member, active and auxiliary. The Tessera is the prayer card of the Legion of Mary. Active members pray the Catena, or middle portion, daily.
When the prayers are not divided up, the sign of the cross is to be made only at the very beginning and end. Legion of Mary Tessera. Opening Prayers (to be said at the opening of the meeting). In the name of the Father, and of The Son, and of The Holy Spirit. Come, O Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of your faithful, and enkindle in them the fire of your love. V/.
CONCLUDING PRAYERS. (Make the Sign of the Cross) In the name of the Father, etc.Come, 0 Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of Your faithful, and enkindle in them the fire of Your love.v. Send forth Your Spirit, 0 Lord, and they shall be created.R. And You shall renew the face of the earth.Let us pray. Amen. (Make the Sign of the Cross) In the name of the Father, etc.We fly to your patronage, 0 holy Mother of God; despise not our prayers in our necessities, but ever deliver us from all dangers, 0 glorious and blessed Virgin.v. Mary Immaculate, Mediatrix of all Graces (or Invocation appropriate to Praesidium)R
Opening Prayers. In the name of the Father, The Son, and Holy Spirit, Amen. Come Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of your faithful, and enkindle in them the fire of your love. V. Send forth your Spirit, O Lord, and they shall be created. R. And you shall renew the face of the earth. In the Name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, Amen. We fly to your patronage, O Holy Mother of God; despise not our prayers in our necessities, but ever deliver us from all dangers, O glorious and Blessed Virgin.
The Tessera. The Tessera is the prayer card of the Legion of Mary. Active members pray the Catena, or middle portion, daily. A leaflet called the Tessera, containing the Prayers of the Legion and bearing a reproduction of the Legion Picture, shall be issued to every member, active and auxiliary
OPENING PRAYERS. (Make the Sign of the Cross) In the name of the Father, etc. Come, O Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of Your faithful, and enkindle in them the fire of Your love. v. Send forth Your Spirit, O Lord, and they shall be created. R. And You shall renew the face of the earth. Let us pray. 