How to Store Fresh Mangoes. Keep unripe mangoes at room temperature to ripen, which may take up to 1 week. A paper bag might help them ripen sooner, but they will not ripen at temperatures below 55 degrees F. Ripe mangoes can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks, or they can frozen, dried, cooked in syrup or pureed. puréed
Once ripe, mangoes should be put in a plastic bag and stored in the refrigerator, where they will keep for one to three days. If fresh mangoes are unavailable, frozen mangoes can be purchased cubed and bagged in clear plastic in the freezer section of your supermarket or health food store. A Mrs. Marjorie Nolan Cohn, Nutrition & Dietetics, answered on behalf of Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Ripe mangos can be stored in a plastic bag in the refrigerator for several days. If the mango is hard and green, place it in a brown paper bag on your counter for a few days in room temperature to ripen.
1 Once ripe, move mangoes to the refrigerator to prevent them from over-ripening—they should last for 3-4 days. 2  Peeled, cubed mango can be kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator for several days, or frozen for up to 3 months. 
They must be fully ripen before eating, or you’ll get a bland taste. Keep unripe mango at room temperature, it will turn soft and sweet in a few days. If you want to speed up the process you can place your mango in a paper bag, still at room temperature. Once your mango is ripen, place it in the fridge. Whole mangoes can last up to 5 days. You can keep peeled and cubed mangoes in an airtight container in the refrigerator for a few days, and up to 6 months in the freezer. Recipes using mangoes. 
If, however, you've purchased unripe mangoes and don't plan to use them immediately, you can store them for one to two weeks at 55 degrees F. before setting them out at room temperature or placing them in a paper bag to ripen. A Mrs. Marjorie Nolan Cohn, Nutrition & Dietetics, answered on behalf of Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Ripe mangos can be stored in a plastic bag in the refrigerator for several days. If the mango is hard and green, place it in a brown paper bag on your counter for a few days in room temperature to ripen.
Tips. 1  Store at room temperature until ripe, then refrigerate in plastic bag. 2  To freeze: (1) Wash, peel and slice mangoes; (2) Place mango slices in a single layer on cookie tray in freezer; (3) Once slices are frozen, transfer to airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags and return to freezer. 1 To freeze: (1) Wash, peel and slice mangoes; (2) Place mango slices in a single layer on cookie tray in freezer; (3) Once slices are frozen, transfer to airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags and return to freezer.
Easy steps to ripen and store your mangos. Keep unripe mangos at room temperature. Mangos shouldn’t be refrigerated before they are ripe. Mangos will continue to ripen at room temperature, becoming sweeter and softer over several days. To speed up ripening, place mangos in a paper bag at room temperature. Once ripe, mangos should be moved to the refrigerator, which will slow down the ripening process. Whole, ripe mangos may be stored for up to five days in the refrigerator. Mangos may be peeled, cubed and placed in an airtight container in the refrigerator for several days or in the freezer for up to six months.
STORAGE-Store mangos at room temperature and out of the sun, until ripened. The ideal storage temperature for mangos is 55 degrees F. When stored properly a mango should have a shelf life of 1 to 2 weeks. While the mango will not ripen in the refrigerator, it can be kept chilled there once ripe. 
1 Store at room temperature until ripe, then refrigerate in plastic bag. 2  To freeze: (1) Wash, peel and slice mangoes; (2) Place mango slices in a single layer on cookie tray in freezer; (3) Once slices are frozen, transfer to airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags and return to freezer. 1 To freeze: (1) Wash, peel and slice mangoes; (2) Place mango slices in a single layer on cookie tray in freezer; (3) Once slices are frozen, transfer to airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags and return to freezer.