General Information. A rust-inhibiting coating is not a paint. You do not have to remove light rust. Merely remove loose paint and rust scale, dirt, oil, grease and other accumulations with a wire brush-apply a coat as it comes in the container-let dry overnight, then apply whatever paint system you desire. 
Ospho contains phosphoric acid but it also has a number of metal salts in it. They seem to be a vital constitutent. I've coated steel stuff with phosphoric acid to remove the rust and as an experiment I didn't rinse it off. Within a couple of days the item was covered with a heavy layer of red rust. 
NEW-SDS Safety Data Sheet. HOW SKYCO OSPHO WORKS. When applied to rusted surfaces, it resists/retards rust in chemical change on drying to a tough, hard surface ready for priming. 
OSPHO is a rust-inhibiting coating not a paint. OSPHO causes iron oxide (rust) to chemically change to iron phosphate an inert, hard substance that turns the metal black. Use on new metals, for new ferrous or aluminum metals. Is effective for exterior and interior work alike. click to zoom. OSPHO is a rust-inhibiting coating not a paint. OSPHO causes iron oxide (rust) to chemically change to iron phosphate an inert, hard substance that ...
RUSTED METALS-OSPHO is a rust-inhibiting coating-NOT A PAINT You do not have to remove tight rust. Merely remove loose paint and rust scale, dirt, oil, grease and other accumulations with a wire brush-apply a coat of OSPHO as it comes in the container-let dry overnight, then apply whatever paint system you desire. A typical paint application will last much longer after an application of OSPHO because subsequent paint coatings attach themselves so tightly that moisture and oxygen cannot attack the metal. OSPHO is water-thin, and therefore goes on easily and covers a larger area than paint. One gallon covers approx.
Rusted Metals: It's important to note that Ospho is a rust inhibitor coating and not paint. Before applying, use a wire brush or wire wheel to remove loose paint, rust scales, dirt, oil, and anything else accumulated on the surface. After doing this, apply a coat of Ospho and let it dry (overnight). Ospho resists and retards rust while providing a sound base for paint. Recommended for use under oil base paint or primer. One gallon of Ospho covers 600 sq. feet. It dries overnight, makes a lasting bond between rusted metal and paint. (Note: Ospho is not actually a paint.) Contains phosphoric acid.
Many rust removal products, like Ospho, leave behind a coating of Zinc Oxide or Iron Phosphate to prevent further rust. Although you can paint over it you should probably sand lightly and remove the powder. The black stuff is probably the result of rust conversion. Rust, Fe2o3, is that stuff that eats up metal. 
Ospho is a phosphoric acid-based rust removal and preventative that has some advantages over other rust removal methods: it's easy, inexpensive, and not particularly messy. This article demonstrates how to use Ospho to remove light surface rust and heavy rust, and how to use Ospho to prevent fresh steel from rusting. Use a pump spray bottle to apply Ospho liberally. Scrub it in with the scrub pads, then wipe off the excess with the towels, and let it sit 24 hours. If you want to clean it some more, sand it with 80 grit, and reapply.