A conceptual new approach for ligand-receptor capture on the living cell. Ligand receptor capture LRC-TriCEPS™ is a conceptually new technology to analyse the protein interaction of your biologics. We can identify the targets of your protein, antibody and peptide at the cell surface. Ligand-receptor capture technology can be used for many types of orphan ligands, such as peptides, proteins, antibodies, engineered affinity binders but also for viruses. Orphan ligands: 1  Extracellular proteins. 2  Peptide ligands. 3  Antibodies. 4  Engineered affinity binders. 5  Viruses.
Box 1: Notch receptor and ligand domains and isoforms. Notch receptors and ligands are single-pass transmembrane receptors that, in the classical view of canonical Notch signalling, mediate cell-contact-dependent cell signalling. The cell on which the receptor is expressed. Canonical Notch signalling is seen as a uni-directional signalling pathway in which the ligand is expressed on one cell, which 'sends' the signal, and the receptor is expressed on a contacting cell, which 'receives' the signal. (EMT).
Ligand receptors are specialized molecules on the surface of cells that allow certain small molecules to bind to them, inducing a chemical change inside the cell. For simplicity, ligand receptors are usually referred to as receptors, while the small molecules that bind to them are called ligands. Ligands are diverse in size and composition, and there are many classes of receptors specialized to handle them. 
A detection method is used to determine the presence and extent of the ligand-receptor complexes formed, and this is usually determined electrochemically or through a fluourescence method. Non specific binding refers to the binding of a ligand to something other than its designated receptor such as various other receptors, or different types of transporters in the cell membrane. For example, various antagonists can bind to multiple types receptors.
Video how the LRC-TriCEPS™ technology works. LRC-TriCEPS™ (CaptiRec) is a novel approach which enables the identification of cell surface receptors and off-targets on the living cells for a wide range of orphan ligands, such as: 1  Peptides. Principle of LRC-TriCEPS™-based. LRC-TriCEPS™ (CaptiRec) is a fast and sensitive approach to discover cell surface N-glycosylated receptors for a ligand of interest: 1  Label ligand with the TriCEPS™ chemoproteomic reagent. 2  Activate target cells or native tissue to oxidize cell surface glycans.
Specific binding refers to the binding of a ligand to a receptor, and it is possible that there is more than one specific binding site for one ligand. Non specific binding refers to the binding of a ligand to something other than its designated receptor such as various other receptors, or different types of transporters in the cell membrane. For example, various antagonists can bind to multiple types receptors.
Ligand Binding Assays (LBA) is an assay, or an analytic procedure, whose procedure or method relies on the binding of ligand molecules to receptors, antibodies or other macromolecules. Non specific binding refers to the binding of a ligand to something other than its designated receptor such as various other receptors, or different types of transporters in the cell membrane. For example, various antagonists can bind to multiple types receptors.
A molecule that binds to a receptor is called a ligand, and can be a peptide (short protein) or another small molecule such as a neurotransmitter, hormone, pharmaceutical drug, toxin, or parts of the outside of a virus or microbe. 3. Secondary Messengers. These are examples of membrane receptors. In biochemistry and pharmacology, a receptor is a protein molecule usually found embedded within the plasma membrane surface of a cell that receives chemical signals from outside the cell.