Stevia is a plant native to South America. It is part of the sunflower family and its leaves are naturally sweet. In fact, the indigenous people used to chew them for their sweet taste and use them to naturally sweeten beverages. As a product of nature, the stevia plant is actually quite complex.
Stevia is natural, unlike other sugar substitutes. It’s made from a leaf related to popular garden flowers like asters and chrysanthemums. In South America and Asia, people have been using stevia leaves to sweeten drinks like tea for many years.
1 Stevia is a plant naturally grown in Brazil and Paraguay. 2  Stevia is much sweeter than sugar-the extract can taste 250-300 times sweeter than table sugar. 3  The extract is contained in a number of food items in the US such as energy bars, candies, protein drinks and some teas.
Stevia (two brand names: Pure Via and Truvia) is a plant-based sugar substitute that has no calories. The term “stevia” refers to Stevia rebaudiana, which is a South American plant. Only certain parts of the plant are sweet.
Stevia is about 100 to 300 times sweeter than sugar, but has no carbohydrates, calories, or artificial ingredients. Not everyone likes the way it tastes. Some people find it bitter, but others think stevia tastes like menthol. Try it in your morning coffee or sprinkled over your oatmeal to see if you like the taste.
Stevia is perhaps unique among food ingredients because it's most valued for what it doesn't do. It doesn't add calories. Unlike other sugar substitutes, stevia is derived from a plant.
1 Stevia is much sweeter than sugar-the extract can taste 250-300 times sweeter than table sugar. 2  The extract is contained in a number of food items in the US such as energy bars, candies, protein drinks and some teas. 3  Since stevia is so much sweeter than sugar, recipes require less of it.
Stevia (/ˈstiːvɪə/ , /ˈstiːvjə/ or /ˈstɛvɪə/) is a sweetener and sugar substitute extracted from the leaves of the plant species Stevia rebaudiana.