Hormones regulate cellular processes in targeted cells locally and, moved to other locations, in other functional part of the plant. Hormones also determine the formation of flowers, stems, leaves, the shedding of leaves, and the development and ripening of fruit. Plant hormones (also known as phytohormones) are chemicals that regulate plant growth, which, in the UK, are termed 'plant growth substances'.
Plant Hormones and Plant Growth Regulators. Another factor in plant growth is the influence of plant hormones. Hormones are chemicals produced by plants that regulate the growth processes. Plant growth regulators are chemicals applied by a horticulturist to regulate plant growth. Figure 4. Geotropism – Under the influence of gravity, auxins accumulate in the lower side of a horizontal stem, causing cells to enlarge faster, turning the stem upright. Figure 5. Phototropism The auxin concentration on the shaded side stimulates cell elongation, turning the stem to the sun.
Plant hormones shape the plant, affecting seed growth, time of flowering, the sex of flowers, senescence of leaves, and fruits. They affect which tissues grow upward and which grow downward, leaf formation and stem growth, fruit development and ripening, plant longevity, and even plant death. Hormones are vital to plant growth, and, lacking them, plants would be mostly a mass of undifferentiated cells. Plant hormones (also known as phytohormones) are chemicals that regulate plant growth, which, in the UK, are termed 'plant growth substances'.
Cytokinins Produced in root apical meristem and by fruitsInhibits lateral root growth and stimulates lateral bud growthThe combination of auxin, which inhibits lateral bud growth, andcytokinin, which stimulates lateral bud growth, produce thegrowth form of a plant. 
auxin. which is a hormone in the plant which stimulates cell division and cell elongation. 
Auxins are hormones involved in plant-cell elongation, apical dominance, and rooting. A well known natural auxin is indoleacetic acid, or IAA which is produced in the apical meristem of the shoot. Developing seeds produce IAA, which stimulates the development of a fleshy fruit. Chemotropism is a plant growth response to a chemical. After a flower is pollinated, a pollen tube grows down through the stigma and style and enters the ovule through the micropyle. The growth of the pollen tube in response to chemicals produced by the ovule is an excellent example of chemotropism.
Auxins. The primary function of the auxin hormones is to elongate plant cells in the stem. For instance, auxins are the hormones responsible for phototropism, the growth of a plant toward the light. In plants, hormones usually work by influencing cell differentiation, elongation, and division. They also affect the timing of reproduction and germination. These hormones are divided int o five categories: auxins, cytokinins, gibberellins, inhibitors (or abscisic acid), and ethylene.
Teenagers aren’t the only ones with raging hormones. Plants are full of hormones too, but lucky for them they don’t get pimples. In plants, hormones are responsible for all sorts of things, like helping the plants sense light, forming lateral roots, and triggering flower development and germination, just to name a few. In stems, they work with auxin to cause stem elongation. Gibberellins and auxin also work in concert when fruit is developing. In fact, green seedless grapes are usually sprayed with gibberellins to make them bigger.
Auxins promote stem elongation, inhibit growth of lateral buds (maintains apical dominance). They are produced in the stem, buds, and root tips. Example: Indole Acetic Acid (IA). Auxin is a plant hormone produced in the stem tip that promotes cell elongation. Auxin moves to the darker side of the plant, causing the cells there to grow larger than corresponding cells on the lighter side of the plant. This produces a curving of the plant stem tip toward the light, a plant movement known as phototropism.