Part of the Business software glossary: Construction estimating software is a collection of programs, processes and information used to calculate the total cost of a construction project. Estimating software automates the formulations formerly obtained through manual spreadsheet s and calculators. Construction estimating software is used in many different sectors of the construction industry. Different versions address specialized applications in commercial, industrial and residential construction, as well as general contracting, specialty contracting and highway or heavy contracting.
Definition. An approximation of the probable cost of a product, program, or project, computed on the basis of available information. Four common types of cost estimates are: (1) Planning estimate: a rough approximation of cost within a reasonable range of values, prepared for information purposes only. 
A cost estimate is often used to establish a budget as the cost constraint for a project or operation. In project management, project cost management is a major functional division. Cost estimating is one of three activities performed in project cost management. Estimates for the cost of facility construction are a major part of the cost estimate domain. A construction general contractor or subcontractor must normally prepare definitive cost estimates to prepare bids in the construction bidding process to compete for award of the contract.
1 Allocation of costs is the transfer of costs from one cost item to one or more other cost items. 2  Allowance-a value in an estimate to cover the cost of known but not yet fully defined work. 3  As-sold estimate-the estimate which matches the agreed items and price for the project scope. 1 Equipment - (1) a category of cost for organizing and summarizing costs, (2) construction equipment used to execute the project work, (3) engineered equipment such as pumps or tanks. 2  Escalation is defined as changes in the cost or price of specific goods or services in a given economy over a period.
Definitions (4). 1. Construction: Consultant or a construction company employee who analyzes tender documents, architect's drawings, and bill of quantities to accurately estimate the cost of a construction project including the associated supplemental costs and the expected profit. 2
Cost Estimating Manual for WSDOT Projects November 2008 Page iii Foreword Each project is unique. To accurately develop an estimate of the construction costs for a project, an Estimator must be capable of mentally constructing the project and then accounting for all the activities necessary to complete it. Mobilization – Calculated as a percentage of the total of the construction cost estimate, mobilization is included in a project estimate to cover a contractor’s preconstruction expenses and the cost of preparatory work and operations (such as moving equipment on site and staging).
1 Construction cost-the total cost to construct a project. 2  This value usually does not include the preplanning, site or right of way acquisition, or design costs, and may not include start-up and commissioning costs. 3  This total or subtotal is usually identified as such in an estimate report. 1 Equipment - (1) a category of cost for organizing and summarizing costs, (2) construction equipment used to execute the project work, (3) engineered equipment such as pumps or tanks. 2  Escalation is defined as changes in the cost or price of specific goods or services in a given economy over a period.
A cost estimate is the approximation of the cost of a program, project, or operation. The cost estimate is the product of the cost estimating process. The cost estimate has a single total value and may have identifiable component values. A problem with a cost overrun can be avoided with a credible, reliable, and accurate cost estimate. Estimates for the cost of facility construction are a major part of the cost estimate domain. A construction general contractor or subcontractor must normally prepare definitive cost estimates to prepare bids in the construction bidding process to compete for award of the contract.