Marilyn Monroe performing the song Heat Wave in the film There's No Business Like Show Business.. Category. License. 
Heat Wave Song Lyrics We're having a heat wave, A tropical heat wave, The temperature's rising, It isn't surprising, She certainly can can-can. She started a heat wave. By letting her seat wave. In such a way that. The customers say that. She certainly can can-can. 
The song is often referred to as (Love Is Like a) Heat Wave, but the title on the label of the original 1963 single was just Heat Wave. Background [edit]. Heat Wave was one of several songs written and produced by the Holland–Dozier–Holland songwriting and producing team. It was the second hit collaboration between Martha and the Vandellas and the team, with the first being  Come and Get These Memories .
Best Answer: 1) Heat Wave is a popular song. It was written by Irving Berlin and was published in 1933. The song was featured in the 1938 movie, Alexander's Ragtime Band, where it was performed by Ethel Merman. It was also featured in the 1954 movie, There's No Business Like Show Business, where it was performed by Marilyn Monroe. It has become a pop standard, recorded by many artists since its composition. 2) Martha and the Vandellas.
Ep 10 Archie in the Cellar Ep 9 Edith's Conversion Ep 8 The Games Bunkers Play Ep 7 Archie and the Computer Ep 6 Henry's Farewell Ep 5 Archie, the Gambler Ep 4 Archie and the Kiss Ep 3 Edith Finds an Old Man Ep 2 We're Still Having a He... Ep 1 We're Having a Heat Wave. See All. AIRED: A heat wave hits New York, putting all of the Bunkers in bad moods and, to put salt on an already open wound, the air conditioner breaks down. When the house next door is put up for sale, Archie puts together a petition to prevent more minorities from moving into the neighborhood.
Heat Wave (Martha and the Vandellas song). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Heat Wave  is a 1963 single penned by the Holland–Dozier–Holland songwriting team and made popular by the Motown group Martha and the Vandellas. Released as a single on July 9, 1963, on the Motown subsidiary label Gordy, it peaked at number 4 on the Billboard Hot 100 and number 1 on the Billboard Hot R&B chart. Background [edit]. Heat Wave was one of several songs written and produced by the Holland–Dozier–Holland songwriting and producing team. It was the second hit collaboration between Martha and the Vandellas and the team, with the first being  Come and Get These Memories .
Heat Wave lyrics © Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC, Universal Music Publishing Group, IMAGEM U.S. LLC. 
'Hotter Than Hell'. Kiss. It'd be hard to argue that we're in the midst of a massive heat wave right now (July 21, 2011). If our culture survives this calamity, and you're reading this in the future, trust us -- it was hot. Hotter than hell, you could say. Which is exactly what Kiss does here with the title track to their 1974 sophomore album. If there's ever been a time where great heat wave songs were needed more than they are right now, well, we can't remember it.
Ep 10 Archie in the Cellar Ep 9 Edith's Conversion Ep 8 The Games Bunkers Play Ep 7 Archie and the Computer Ep 6 Henry's Farewell Ep 5 Archie, the Gambler Ep 4 Archie and the Kiss Ep 3 Edith Finds an Old Man Ep 2 We're Still Having a He... Ep 1 We're Having a Heat Wave. The new neighbors, Irene and Frank Lorenzo, settle into the house next door. Soon Archie is annoyed with both of them, as Irene makes friends with Edith and Archie soon grows jealous of all the time that Edith is spending with her.