Common salt is a mineral composed primarily of sodium chloride (NaCl), a chemical compound belonging to the larger class of salts; salt in its natural form as a crystalline mineral is known as rock salt or halite. In many cuisines around the world, salt is used in cooking, and is often found in salt shakers on diners' eating tables for their personal use on food. Table salt is a refined salt containing about 97 to 99 percent sodium chloride.
Apparently we use salt in more than 14,000 different ways from the making of products as varied as plastic, paper, glass, polyester, rubber and fertilisers to household bleach, soaps, detergents and dyes. Everyone uses salt, directly or indirectly. Water Conditioning. 
They can all be created – at a low cost and in an eco-friendly manner – using Epsom salt. Comprised of the minerals magnesium and sulfate, Epsom salt is a natural exfoliant and anti-inflammation remedy that can be used to treat dry skin, sore muscles, small wounds and even to fight illness. It can also be added to any bath or foot soak to create a luxurious at-home spa experience. 
1 tsp of table salt is much more salt than 1 tsp of kosher salt. The tiny grains pack together much closer, giving you more salt. That said, sea salt is typically closer to the size of kosher salt granules; so use that. There is no hard and fast ratio. 
Salt can be used in almost any room of the house to assist in cleaning, sanitizing and deodorizing the home. Combined with other substances like lemon juice, vinegar, and baking soda it is a strong and versatile cleaner. Caution – always test the mixtures on a small area to ensure safe usage. 
1 Salt can be used to sweeten and deodorize water bottles. 2  Salt will prevent food from sticking to dishes and minimize smoking. 3  Sprinkle salt on washed skillets or griddles, heat in a warm oven, dust off salt, and food will not stick during the next use. 4  This is natures equivilant of Teflon. Here are a few different ways that salt can be used in aiding in our health. 1  Salt water flush is a common method for cleansing oneʼs digestive tract or aiding in constipation. 2  This should be done under medical supervision as should anything dealing with your health.
1 Salt can be used to remove pinfeathers from poultry. 2  To do this rub the chicken skin with salt before removing the feathers. 3  Salt will also enhance the flavor of the chicken. 4  If you have just finished chopping onions and need to remove the scent from your hands just rub some salt moistened with vinegar on your hands. Here are a few different ways that salt can be used in aiding in our health. 1  Salt water flush is a common method for cleansing oneʼs digestive tract or aiding in constipation. 2  This should be done under medical supervision as should anything dealing with your health.
1 You can use regular table salt or sea salt. 2  Add some salt to warm water, tilt your head back and gargle! Make sure to spit out the salt water or you will suffer the consequences of the previous topic. 3  Furthermore, gargling with salt and baking soda can disinfect your mouth and leave you with fresh breath. Here are a few different ways that salt can be used in aiding in our health. 1  Salt water flush is a common method for cleansing oneʼs digestive tract or aiding in constipation. 2  This should be done under medical supervision as should anything dealing with your health.
The single major use of salt is on roads for deicing purposes – again, deicing with so much salt has its issues. However, salt can be also be used in many different ways around the home as a more environmentally friendly alternative to harsher synthetic chemicals. Being so plentiful, it’s also very cheap – so you can save a wad of money in the process. Here’s just a few uses for salt: Salt as a polish. By mixing salt and vinegar into a thick paste, it can be applied to brass silver and copper as a polish. Use a soft cloth to apply and buff, then rinse thoroughly in water and dry well.