Julian, CA real estate agents. The Julian, CA air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Julian, CA air quality index is 10.5% greater than the California average and 22.7% greater than the national average. Loading... The Julian, CA air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Julian, CA air quality index is 10.5% greater than the California average and 22.7% greater than the national average.
The annual average precipitation at Julian is 35.83 Inches. Winter months tend to be wetter than summer months. The wettest month of the year is March with an average rainfall of 7.02 Inches. Temperature variations between night and day tend to be moderate during summer with a difference that can reach 29 degrees Fahrenheit, and moderate during winter with an average difference of 23 degrees Fahrenheit.
Most / Least Educated Cities in CA. The average temperature of Julian is 59.45°F, which is lower than the California average temperature of 61.17°F and is much higher than the national average temperature of 54.45°F. 13.54 mph. U.S. 16.93 mph. * The temperature, snow fall, and precipitation information on this page were calculated from the historical data of 18,000+ U.S weather stations for the period of time from 1980 to 2010.
Julian, California, gets 24 inches of rain per year. The US average is 37. Snowfall is 9 inches. The average US city gets 25 inches of snow per year. The number of days with any measurable precipitation is 41. On average, there are 261 sunny days per year in Julian, California. The July high is around 90 degrees. The January low is 35.
The highest average temperature in Julian is July at 74 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Julian is December at 49.4 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Julian occurs in February with 3.9 inches. The Julian weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... The Julian, CA air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Julian, CA air quality index is 10.5% greater than the California average and 22.7% greater than the national average.
California Weather. Julian, CA climate is mild during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 60's and cold during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 40's. Temperature variations between night and day tend to be moderate during summer with a difference that can reach 29 degrees Fahrenheit, and moderate during winter with an average difference of 23 degrees Fahrenheit.
Julian, CA Weather. Julian, CA climate is mild during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 60's and cold during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 40's. Temperature variations between night and day tend to be moderate during summer with a difference that can reach 29 degrees Fahrenheit, and moderate during winter with an average difference of 23 degrees Fahrenheit.
Some Rain Along parts of the East Coast Tonight. A cold front along the East Coast will bring rain to parts of the Northeast and Florida through Tuesday night. High temperatures Wednesday continue to be 15 to 20 degrees above average over parts of the Central Plains. Read More... Detailed Forecast. Today. A 20 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms after 11am. Partly sunny, with a high near 79. Southwest wind around 5 mph becoming east in the morning. Tonight. A 40 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms, mainly after 11pm. Mostly cloudy, with a low around 58.
The Julian, CA pollution index is the sum of the most hazardous air pollutants displayed in pounds. The Julian, CA pollution index is 99.1% less than the California average and 96.8% less than the national average. Loading... The Julian, CA air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Julian, CA air quality index is 10.5% greater than the California average and 22.7% greater than the national average.