You know the one the dancers squat down with arms folded and kick. If a Husky Russkie is celebrating a victory for Glorious Mother Russia, he is 90% likely to be doing this dance. It's commonly known as the Cossack Dance, but this is one of those cases of mislabeling by foreigners. In Ukraine, Cossack Dance or Kazatsky, is another name for the Ukrainian Hopak stage dance
Hopak (Ukrainian: гопа́к, [ɦoˈpɑk]), also referred to as Gopak or Cossack dance, is a Ukrainian dance. It is performed most often as a solitary concert dance by amateur and professional Ukrainian dance ensembles, as well as other performers of folk dances. Music for the Hopak is not standardized by tempo or melody, although 2/4 time predominates most arrangements. The dance is supposed to evoke a sense of improvisation, so the pace of the music changes from segment to segment, allowing dancers to distinguish themselves.
The best way to understand what Cossack Dance looks like is to watch videos of Cossack dance troupes performances. To read more about Cossack and Russian dancing check the article Russian dance written by Mikhail Smirnov for the The Balalaika and Domra Association of America quarterly journal. All members of the group are highly trained in former USSR performers. Ukrainian Cossack dancers of New York founded in New York City by Ukrainian choreographer, teacher and dancer Andrij Cybyk in 2007. Brooklyn Cossacks-folk song and dance trio from Brooklyn, New York.
Hopak (Ukrainian: [ɦoˈpɑk]), also referred to as Gopak or Cossack dance, is a Ukrainian dance. It is performed most often as a solitary concert dance by amateur and professional Ukrainian dance ensembles, as well as other performers of folk dances. It has also been incorporated into larger artistic opuses such as operas and ballets. The Hopak is often popularly referred to as the National Dance of Ukraine.
Cossack dance performance during basketball game NJ NETS vs Utah JAZZ on January 19th, 2011 at the Prudential Center arena in Newark, New Jersey, USA. Click the image above to see all photos and videos from January 19th, 2011 performance January 8, 2012. All members of the group are highly trained in former USSR performers. Ukrainian Cossack dancers of New York founded in New York City by Ukrainian choreographer, teacher and dancer Andrij Cybyk in 2007. Brooklyn Cossacks-folk song and dance trio from Brooklyn, New York.
Russian Cossack dancing is one of the most exciting dances we have seen. The Cossacks – guards or fighters – had to stay in shape and these dances were one of the ways they did that. 
The Mazeppa Ukrainian Cossacks have proven themselves to be one of the top cabaret acts in the world. Using lively Cossack songs, music and dancing handed down through generations, their performances are colourful, exciting and stylish, providing a unique and totally unforgettable highlight to any show or function. 
Cossack dancers | Cossack dance | cossack dance program | cossack song, dance and music program | video. CONTACT INFORMATION For fast price quote and information please send an email to mikhail@barynya.com or call Mikhail Smirnov at +1(201) 981-2497. All members of the group are highly trained in former USSR performers. Ukrainian Cossack dancers of New York founded in New York City by Ukrainian choreographer, teacher and dancer Andrij Cybyk in 2007. Brooklyn Cossacks-folk song and dance trio from Brooklyn, New York.
Roztiazhka Ukrainian Cossack Dancers are an independent adult dance company formed in Perth, Western Australia in 1991. ​. We constitute a non-profit, amateur Australian dance company. Membership is granted through audition and upon compliance to the principles of our constitution. 