A nurse anesthetist is a nurse who specializes in the administration of anesthesia. In the United States, a certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) is an advanced practice registered nurse (APRN) who has acquired graduate-level education and board certification in anesthesia. In the United States, there have been three challenges brought against nurse anesthetists for illegally practicing medicine: Frank v. South in 1917, Hodgins and Crile in 1919, and Chalmers-Francis v. Nelson in 1936.
The American Association of Nurse Anesthetists' (AANA) is the national association that represents more than 90% of the 45,000 nurse anesthetists in the United States. Certification is governed by the National Boards of Certification and Recertification of Nurse Anesthetists (NBCRNA). In the United States, there have been three challenges brought against nurse anesthetists for illegally practicing medicine: Frank v. South in 1917, Hodgins and Crile in 1919, and Chalmers-Francis v. Nelson in 1936.
A nurse anesthetist is an advanced practice nurse who specializes in administering anesthetics to patients and coordinating their care with other medical professionals. He or she may remain with a patient from pre-operative procedures through surgery and into recovery, ensuring that a patient is as safe and comfortable as possible. As a nurse anesthetist, you may work in several different medical settings, such as surgery clinics, dental clinics, or hospital operating rooms.
Nurse anesthetists are required to have a Bachelor's of Science degree in nursing or other appropriate undergraduate degree and a master's degree from one of the more than 100 graduate schools of nurse anesthesia. The designation of certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) first came into existence in the late 1950s as a mode of providing advanced training to the specialty of anesthesia nursing.
A nurse anesthetist is a registered nurse who works closely with doctors to administer and monitor a patient's anesthesia for medical procedures. He or she may remain with a patient from pre-operative procedures through surgery and into recovery, ensuring that a patient is as safe and comfortable as possible. As a nurse anesthetist, you may work in several different medical settings, such as surgery clinics, dental clinics, or hospital operating rooms.
An anesthesiologist is a doctor (MD or DO) who practices anesthesia. Anesthesiologists are physicians specializing in perioperative care, development of an anesthetic plan, and the administration of anesthetics. 
Nurses were the first providers of anesthesia care and have continued to work in the field for more than 150 years. The designation of certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) first came into existence in the late 1950s as a mode of providing advanced training to the specialty of anesthesia nursing.
Certified registered nurse anesthetists (CRNAs) use their advanced training in pain management to relieve suffering and discomfort due to surgery, trauma, childbirth and illness. After administering anesthetic, they remain at the patient’s side, providing support and adjusting the dosage as needed. Training. Admission to most nurse anesthetist programs requires at least a year of professional nursing experience in an acute care setting—preferably surgery or critical care. During graduate school, CRNAs complete about 2,500 hours of clinical training and administer approximately 850 anesthetics, according to AANA.
Nurse Anesthesiology is a graduate prepared profession. In the United States of America, nurse anesthetists must be licensed registered nurse and complete a master's degree in anesthesia and/or nursing with a post-masters certification in anesthesia. In the United States, there have been three challenges brought against nurse anesthetists for illegally practicing medicine: Frank v. South in 1917, Hodgins and Crile in 1919, and Chalmers-Francis v. Nelson in 1936.
Training to Become a CRNA. Before becoming a certified registered nurse anesthetist, a nurse must have at least one year of experience in an acute care setting, such as an emergency room or critical care unit, and complete additional training in a large hospital setting. The designation of certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) first came into existence in the late 1950s as a mode of providing advanced training to the specialty of anesthesia nursing.