Modular connectors also go by the names modular phone jack/plug, RJ connector and Western jack/plug. The term modular connector arose from its original use in a novel system of cabling designed to make telephone equipment more modular. This includes the 4P4C handset connector. The modular connector suffers from a design flaw or weakness however, as the fragile latching tab easily snags on other cables and breaks off. When this happens, the connector is still functional, but the crucial latching feature is lost.
Modular connectors are commonly used for telephone systems, data networks, and low-speed serial connections. These connectors are inexpensive, relatively simple to terminate, and easy to plug and unplug. Female: An 8-position, 8-conductor modular connector that is most often used for data networks such as Ethernet. RJ-45 connectors are physically wider than the RJ-11/12 connectors used for telephone.
Modular connectors are designed to latch together. A spring-loaded tab on the plug snaps into a jack so that the plug cannot be pulled out. To remove the plug, the latching tab must be depressed. The standard and most common way to install a jack in a wall or panel is with the tab side down. The modular connector suffers from a design flaw or weakness however, as the fragile latching tab easily snags on other cables and breaks off. When this happens, the connector is still functional, but the crucial latching feature is lost.
Telephone and Ethernet. The most common uses of modular connectors are for plugging a telephone into the wall outlet (RJ-11), as well as the cable that connects the handset with the phone. They are also the plugs and sockets of RJ-45 Ethernet cables. See RJ-11 and RJ-45. 
Modular connectors have gender: male connectors are called plugs, while female connectors are called jacks or, sometimes, sockets. Plugs are used to terminate loose cables and cords, while jacks are used for fixed locations on surfaces such as walls and panels, and on equipment. The modular connector suffers from a design flaw or weakness however, as the fragile latching tab easily snags on other cables and breaks off. When this happens, the connector is still functional, but the crucial latching feature is lost.
Find out the answers here. A modular unit is a computer power supply where some (or all) of its power cables and connectors can be detached and removed. This differs from a regular power supply where all its power cables are permanently hard-wired and non-removable. While ATX modular power supplies have been popular among computer enthusiasts for a good number of years (since 2006 and earlier), they have just found their way to the mainstream market in recent years...
RapidRun Offers Amazing Flexibility! RapidRun is a modular cable system that consists of a runner cable, a selection of flying leads (connectors), and a selection of wall plates. RapidRun is designed to make the installation of in-wall, A/V infrastructure easier than traditional installation methods. 
What is a modular power supply unit? In simple terms, it is a power supply where some or all of its cables and connectors are detachable; This is different from a regular power supply where all its cables are permanently fused to the unit. In the image below, you can see the difference between a modular and non modular PSU. By detaching unused power cables from a modular power supply, you will typically end up having three to four less cables within your computer case. That's at least 1.5 meters (5 feet) less cables snaking inside your case and hiding in your drive bays.
Corsair Modular power supplies have cables that can be attached to the power supply individually. Unlike more basic PSUs, which have permanently attached cables, modular power supplies allow you to use only the cables you need for your particular installation. 