Permalink Anonymous. It depends on the temperature you have your refrigerator set at and how long the ribs were left unfrozen in the market before you purchased them. If you do not plan on using the pork ribs within 2 days of purchase it is best to freeze them. Ribs can last up up to 5 days in the fridge depending on the temperature but could go bad as early as 4 if your temperature is not cool enough
Confidence votes 30.7K. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always cover meats when stored in the fridge. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 8 people found this useful.
Seriously, though: It somewhat depends on your fridge. Smoked ribs cooked to the temps we usually do, in a smoky environment, are good to store in a standard home fridge for at least a week, probably two. If you have a modern fridge, with a good meat drawer, you may go a little longer. 
Trusted Results with How long does pork ribs keep in the refrigerator. Rockin' Roast Pork Shoulder with Spanish Rice Recipe: Paula ... Food Network invites you to try this Rockin' Roast Pork Shoulder with Spanish Rice recipe from Paula Deen. ... Cook's Note: Can keep in the refrigerator for up to 10 days. The quarks texture is depending on how long you drain the quark. The longer you drain, ... After the quark is drained store it in the refrigerator for up to 6 ...
NEVER thaw meat at room temperature. Allow a 24-hour thawing period in the refrigerator. After defrosting raw pork by this method, it will be safe in the refrigerator up to five days before cooking or, if you decide not to use the pork, you can safely refreeze it without cooking it first. For frozen storage, wrap meat in heavy foil, freezer wrap or place in freezer container. For optimum taste, use meat within two to three months. When reheating leftovers, make sure that they have been cooked to 165 °F. If you may have kept the food refrigerated for too long, throw it out.
How long can I keep my fresh pork in the refrigerator? Sealed, pre-packed fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping the raw, fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. The best way to defrost pork is in the refrigerator in its wrapping. Follow these guidelines for defrosting pork in the refrigerator: 1  Small roast will take 3-5 hours per pound. 2  Large roast will take 4-7
Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 50 people found this useful.
Sealed, prepackaged, fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. Q. How long can I store ham or other smoked products in the refrigerator? Whole smoked ham and whole ham slices can be stored in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days or until the use by date on the label. Smoked bacon and sausages can be kept for up to 7 days.