How long does Hydrocodone stay in your system for a urine test and what is Hydrocodone? Hydrocodone is a pain killer belonging to the group of active narcotics. It is used in treating pain.
While the effects of Vicodin last around 4 hours, traces of the drug can remain in your system for up to 72 hours. In some adults you can still find traces of the drug in your system after 5 days.
If you will be taking an examination to test for prescription drugs, you will need to be conscious of how long it will take for your body to clear signs of your Vicodin usage. Urine examinations can still detect Vicodin in the system after 72 hours.
The active ingredients in Vicodin are paracetamol (acetaminophen) and hydrocodone. Vicodin is mainly administered as a tablet in doses of 5 mg hydrocodone / 500 mg acetaminophen ratios or as a liquid syrup containing 2.5 mg hydrocodone and 167 mg acetaminophen per 5 ml. Doctors usually prescribe and supervise doses of 5 – 10 mg hydrocodone every 4-6 hours.
Drug testing for Vicodin. Vicodin can be detected in the urine 2-4 days after you take it. If you are planning to take a drug test for Vicodin, you would be advised to be more conservative and wait the full 4 days before drug testing.
Taking all of these factors into consideration, we can estimate how long vicodin will stay in your system. The common perception is that vicodin will only stay in your system for 24 to 48 hours, and this is true in some cases.
While there is not a fixed answer for how long Vicodin stays in your system, the chemicals in the tablets generally stay in the system for four hours. However, traces of the drug can remain in your body for an estimated 72 hours. The drug can even remain in some people's systems for five days or longer.
Hydrocodone stays in your system for three to four days. If you are about to take a urine test, you should know that Hydrocodone will stay in your urine for that period of time. If your doctor has prescribed you this drug, you are probably well informed about its possible side effects.