The pancreas produces chemicals called enzymes which are essential to the digestion of food. These enzymes break down food into very small particles that the body can then absorb. Enzymes are produced in small glands in the pancreas and then flow through the organ into the first part of the bowel. The body's main digestive organ, the pancreas is composed of different cells that serve distinct functions. Some cells produce digestive juices or enzymes, while the others produce hormones.
The endocrine portion of the pancreas, or islets of Langerhans, is composed of several cells that secrete hormones directly into the bloodstream. Insulin is a hormone secreted by pancreatic beta cells in response to a rise in blood sugar. The pancreas has an endocrine function because it releases juices directly into the bloodstream, and it has an exocrine function because it releases juices into ducts. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level
Function. The exocrine secretion of the pancreas consists of enzymes that digest food in the small intestine, and sodium bicarbonate to neutralize hydrochloric acid from the stomach in the duodenum. See: pancreatic juice. The islets of Langerhans contain alpha, beta, and delta cells
The pancreas is an important organ in digestion because it produces a variety of enzymes that break down all of the major food groups. In addition to the enzymes, your pancreas also secretes bicarbonate, which makes the pancreatic secretions alkaline in nature. 
The exocrine cells secrete digestive enzymes consiting of amylase, lipase, and proteases (trypsin and chymotrypsin) as well as as bicarbonate. In addition to the major enzymes the pacrease secretes phospholipase, colipase,elastase, ribonuclease, deoxyribonuclease, gelatinase and others. 6 people found this useful. The pancreas is responsible for the production and secretion of the hormones insulin and glucagon to regulate blood sugar.
The islets of Langerhans are the endocrine (endo= within) cells of the pancreas that produce and secrete hormones such as insulin and glucagon into the bloodstream. The pancreatic hormones, insulin and glucagon, work together to maintain the proper level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. The bulk of the pancreas is composed of “exocrine” cells that produce enzymes to help with the digestion of food. These exocrine cells release their enzymes into a series of progressively larger tubes (called ducts) that eventually join together to form the main pancreatic duct.
By Susan Chow, PhD, ELS. The pancreas is an organ that sits in the abdominal cavity behind the stomach and plays a role in both the digestive and endocrine system. In the endocrine system, it is responsible for producing several hormones, such as insulin, glucagon, somatostatin and pancreatic polypeptide. Additionally, its exocrine function involves the secretion of digestive enzymes that aid the digestion and absorption of nutrients in the small intestine. Head of pancreas. Exocrine Function. The pancreas also plays a significant role in the digestive system as an exocrine gland. It secretes a fluid that is rich in enzymes needed to aid digestion in the small intestine. The digestive enzymes help to break down different nutrients from the diet, such as carbohydrates, lipids and protein