The name Juliet is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Juliet is: Young. American Meaning: The name Juliet is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Juliet is: Young. French Meaning: The name Juliet is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Juliet is: Youthful;.
Romeo /ro-meo/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Italian and Latin origin, and the meaning of Romeo is citizen of Rome. From Romanus. Shakespeare used the name for his tragic young hero in the famous romance Romeo and Juliet. Kreatif forms: Rameo, Remeo, Riomeo. Romeo is a somewhat popular first name for males (#688 out of 1220, Top 56%) and an even more popular surname for all people (#3984 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Romeo for boys.
The name Romeo is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Romeo is: Pilgrim from Rome. Latin Meaning: The name Romeo is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Romeo is: Pilgrim to Rome. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Romeo is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Romeo is: The Tragedy of Romeo And Juliet' Son to Montague, who falls in love with Juliet, the daughter to Capulet. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire to lead, organize, supervise, and to achieve status, power and wealth.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Romeo. Romeo is an Italian name derived from a Late Latin religious name “Romaeus” meaning ‘pilgrim to Rome’ (pilgrim to the Holy Roman Catholic Church based in Rome). However, the name is most associated with William Shakespeare’s hero in his 1596 play about two star-crossed, ill-fated lovers, “Romeo and Juliet”
Juliet /juli-et/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced joo-lee-ET. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Juliet is youthful; Jove's child. Diminutive of Julia. Literary: Shakespeare used the name twice, in Romeo and Juliet and in Measure for Measure. Dancer Juliet Prowse; actresses Juliet Stevenson, Juliette Lewis. 
Romeo is an Italian variant of the Latin name Romaeus, meaning pilgrim to Rome.. It is most famously associated with the character Romeo Montague from Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet.. As a result, the term Romeo has become synonymous with a young passionate lover in various languages. The meaning of Romeo is  Pilgrim to Rome . Its origin is  Italian variant of the Latin name Romaeus . Romeo is a form of Romaeus and is generally pronounced like  roh MAY oh  and  ROH mee oh . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 339th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy nam
Shakespeare is drawing less than subtle parallels. Juliet: A name of Latin origin, meaning “youthful; Jove’s child”. Shakespeare moved the events of his “Romeo and Juliet” from that of the source text, his play takes place in July while Brooke’s was clearly set around Christmas. One theory for this is that “Juliet” is associated with “July”. 
Meaning & History. Italian form of the Late Latin name Romaeus meaning a pilgrim to Rome. Romeo is best known as the lover of Juliet in Shakespeare 's tragedy 'Romeo and Juliet' (1596). Related Names.