Flo is a fictional character appearing in more than 100 commercials for Progressive Insurance, beginning in 2008. Portrayed by actress and comedian Stephanie Courtney, the character has developed a fan base on social networks and has become an iconic advertising mascot. 
$800 Thousand Per Year. Stephanie Courtney net worth and salary: Stephanie Courtney is an American actress and comedian who has a net worth of $5 million. Stephanie Courtney was born on February 8, 1970 in Stony Point, New York. She is a 1992 graduate of Binghampton University. She is best known for portraying Flo in a series of commercials for Progressive Insurance.
Stephanie Courtney, who plays Flo in the Progressive Insurance campaign, is one of the great commercial actresses working today. People love her— sometimes a little too much. But Courtney, a former member of the Groundlings, doesn't have a chance to really show off her comedic range in the Progressive campaign. 
Q What can you tell me about the actress who plays the delightfully spunky Flo in the Progressive Insurance commercials?–J. Sabolboro, San Francisco, Calif. Photos: Famous Animated Stars A Her name is Stephanie Courtney, and if the volume of mail we get about her is any indication, she’s very, very popular. 
Unsurprisingly, it turns out that Flo is so much more than Flo. A Reddit user tipped us off to the fact that actress Stephanie Courtney, who plays Flo, has appeared in Mad Men and  For Your Consideration .. Raise your hand if you'd like to see more of Courtney beyond the aisles of Progressive. We certainly would.
2014 that read (in part): Stephanie Courtney — best known for playing the advertising character Flo in television and radio commercials for Progressive Insurance — was killed in New York late Monday night in a deadly car accident. She was 44. Origins: May 2014 saw the circulation of a rumor that Stephanie Courtney, the actress known throughout the U.S. for playing the character of Flo in a long-running series of commercials for Progressive Insurance, had been killed in an automobile accident. This rumor was started through an online article published on.
Follow Business Insider: Take off the trademark headband and wash away a pound of makeup, and you might not recognize Flo, the super-peppy insurance cashier for Progressive. Her real name is Stephanie Courtney, a comedian and actress from Los Angeles who has taken the insurance world by storm. As Flo she was an overnight hit when Progressive introduced her in 2008. Four years later, she is one of the most recognizable characters in advertising. 
Actress. Stephanie Courtney is main company member of the famed Groundlings Theater in Los Angeles, regularly performing in their sketch and improv shows. She hails from Stony Point, New York. After graduating from the Neighborhood Playhouse in New York City, she started doing stand up, which brought her to Los Angeles. 