median lethal dose (LD 50) the quantity of an agent that will kill 50 per cent of the test subjects; in radiology, the amount of radiation that will kill, within a specified period, 50 per cent of individuals in a large group or population. effective dose (ED) that quantity of a drug that will produce the effects for which it is administered. See also median effective dose. erythema dose that amount of radiation that, when applied to the skin, causes erythema (temporary reddening). fatal dose lethal dose.
Freebase (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: Median lethal dose. In toxicology, the median lethal dose, LD50, LC50 or LCt50 of a toxin, radiation, or pathogen is the dose required to kill half the members of a tested population after a specified test duration. LD50 figures are frequently used as a general indicator of a substance's acute toxicity.
By Debbie Hadley. Definition: The median lethal dose of a substance, or the amount required to kill 50% of a given test population. LD50 is a measurement used in toxicology studies to determine the potential impact of toxic substances on different types of organisms. It provides an objective measure to compare and rank the toxicity of substances. 
Main article: Median lethal dose. The median lethal dose, LD 50 (abbreviation for  lethal dose, 50%), LC 50 (lethal concentration, 50%) or LCt 50 (lethal concentration and time) of a toxin, radiation, or pathogen is the dose required to kill half the members of a tested population after a specified test duration. Because resistance varies from one individual to another, the lethal dose represents a dose (usually recorded as dose per kilogram of subject body weight) at which a given percentage of subjects will die. The lethal concentration is a lethal dose measurement used for gases or particulates.
median lethal dose. n. 1. (Medicine) the amount of a drug or other substance that, when administered to a group of experimental animals, will kill 50 per cent of the group in a specified time. 2. (Medicine) the amount of ionizing radiation that will kill 50 per cent of a population in a specified time. 
infective dose (ID) that amount of a pathogenic agent that will cause infection in susceptible subjects. See also median infective dose and tissue culture infective dose. lethal dose (LD) that quantity of an agent that will or may be sufficient to cause death. See also median lethal dose and minimum lethal dose. loading dose a dose of medication, often larger than subsequent doses, administered for the purpose of establishing a therapeutic level of the medication. See also median effective dose. erythema dose that amount of radiation that, when applied to the skin, causes erythema (temporary reddening). fatal dose
infective dose (ID) that amount of a pathogenic agent that will cause infection in susceptible subjects. See also median infective dose and tissue culture infective dose. lethal dose (LD) that quantity of an agent that will or may be sufficient to cause death. See also median lethal dose and minimum lethal dose. effective dose (ED) that quantity of a drug that will produce the effects for which it is administered. See also median effective dose. erythema dose that amount of radiation that, when applied to the skin, causes erythema (temporary reddening). fatal dose
In toxicology, the lethal dose (LD) is an indication of the lethality of a given substance or type of radiation. Because resistance varies from one individual to another, the lethal dose represents a dose (usually recorded as dose per kilogram of subject body weight) at which a given percentage of subjects will die. The lethal concentration is a lethal dose measurement used for gases or particulates.
median lethal dose (LD 50) the quantity of an agent that will kill 50 per cent of the test subjects; in radiology, the amount of radiation that will kill, within a specified period, 50 per cent of individuals in a large group or population. See also median effective dose. erythema dose that amount of radiation that, when applied to the skin, causes erythema (temporary reddening). fatal dose lethal dose.
LD50 redirects here. For other uses, see LD50 (disambiguation) . In toxicology, the median lethal dose, LD50 (abbreviation for  lethal dose, 50%), LC50 (lethal concentration, 50%) or LCt50 is a measure of the lethal dose of a toxin, radiation, or pathogen. The test was created by J.W. Trevan in 1927. The term semilethal dose is occasionally used with the same meaning, in particular in translations from non-English-language texts, but can also refer to a sub lethal dose; because of this ambiguity, it is usually avoided.