Childminding insurance. We know how important it is to you to feel protected. With a range of tailored insurances, designed especially for PACEY members, you can be sure that you and the children you care for are covered. If you employ an assistant or another childminder, by law, you need to hold employer’s liability insurance and display an employer’s liability certificate. You will also need one if you are going to be working with a student.
The package includes: 1  ChildMinder insurance for one year. 2  Complete ChildMinder Organiser-Developed in close consultation with early years officers and childminders across the country, our complete ChildMinder Organiser consists of a carry case, two ring binders and the following childminding forms: Don't take our word for it The easiest and most friendly insurance company I have ever dealt with Debra Rispin, Burstwick Morton Michel Shop Up to 50% discount on childminding business stationery Fantastic benefitsfor Morton Michelpolicyholders!
When you set up your childminding business there are a number of steps you need to follow to make sure you have done everything you need to do to be legal and qualified to work with young children. I have based this list on requirements for English Childminders who are registering with Ofsted. 
Opportunities. You will be self-employed, usually working in your own home. Some childminders are paid by local authorities, for example for looking after children at risk of neglect or abuse. With experience you could become a network coordinator, supporting other local childminders, or a tutor on childminding courses. 
Employer’s Liability Insurance. If you employ a childminding assistant or other staff in your setting, such as a cook or SEND Assistant, you will also need to ensure you have the appropriate Employers’ Liability Insurance (ELI) in place for your business. If you're running your own business, or are employed as a nanny or in a nursery, you'll benefit from PACEY's protection. All registered childcare settings-childminders, nurseries and nannies-are required by law to have public liability insurance (PLI) to cover them in their work with children.
1 specialist car and home contents cover for childminders – in partnership with Bluefin insurance brokers, our HomeMinder and MotorMinder policies give your home, car and belongings the added protection they need when you're running a childminding business. 2  Travel insurance is also available. If you're running your own business, or are employed as a nanny or in a nursery, you'll benefit from PACEY's protection. All registered childcare settings-childminders, nurseries and nannies-are required by law to have public liability insurance (PLI) to cover them in their work with children.
Childminders v7.0 April 2012 2 Introduction Childminders are generally contracted with parents to provide services in the childminders’ premises, so they are not normally employees of the parents. Most childminders are self-employed and are responsible for their own Income Tax and National Insurance contributions. Childminders will need to keep records of business income and expenses to work out their profit, and this booklet gives information on how to do this. A home childcarer is a registered childminder based in the home of the children’s parents. Most home childcarers are employed by the children’s parent or parents. 
For more information about any of PACEY's insurance offers, including childminding insurance or to activate your ELI, call the PACEY membership team on 0300 003 0005. If you need to make a claim against your PLI, please complete this form in the first instance. If you employ an assistant or another childminder, by law, you need to hold employer’s liability insurance and display an employer’s liability certificate. You will also need one if you are going to be working with a student.
ChildMinder provides practical and affordable cover for registered childminders who have children in their care, under the age of eight, on a full daily or part-time basis. Don't take our word for it The easiest and most friendly insurance company I have ever dealt with Debra Rispin, Burstwick Morton Michel Shop Up to 50% discount on childminding business stationery Fantastic benefitsfor Morton Michelpolicyholders!