The Bivalvia, in previous centuries referred to as the Lamellibranchiata and Pelecypoda, comprise a class of marine and freshwater molluscs that have laterally compressed bodies enclosed by a shell consisting of two hinged parts. Most bivalves are filter feeders, using their gills to capture particulate food such as phytoplankton from the water. The protobranchs feed in a different way, scraping detritus from the seabed, and this may be the original mode of feeding used by all bivalves before the gills became adapted for filter feeding.
The soft body of a bivalve consists of a visceral mass, a hatchet shaped foot, sided by a pair of gills and a mantle lobe next to each shell that secrete the shell. The foot is a distinctive feature of a bivalve, located toward the front of the body. 
Also known as pelecypods, the approximately 15,000 species of this taxon are found in marine and freshwater habitats throughout the world. A bivalve is characterized by possessing two shells secreted by a mantle that extends in a sheet on either side of the body. The oldest part of the shell, the umbo, can be recognized as a large hump on the anterior end of the dorsal side of each shell.
The shell of a bivalve is composed of calcium carbonate, and consists of two, usually similar, parts called valves. These are joined together along one edge (the hinge line) by a flexible ligament that, usually in conjunction with interlocking teeth on each of the valves, forms the hinge. Most bivalves are filter feeders, using their gills to capture particulate food such as phytoplankton from the water. The protobranchs feed in a different way, scraping detritus from the seabed, and this may be the original mode of feeding used by all bivalves before the gills became adapted for filter feeding.
It is secreted by a part of the molluscan body known as the mantle. Bivalve shells are collected by professional and amateur conchologists and are sometimes harvested for commercial sale in the international shell trade or for use in glue, chalk, or varnish, occasionally to the detriment of the local ecology. Two whole shells, one closed and one open, of the marine bivalve Abra alba. Live marine venerid cockles, Austrovenus stutchburyi from New Zealand. A bivalve shell is part of the body, the exoskeleton or shell, of a bivalve mollusk. In life, the shell of this class of mollusks is composed of two hinged parts or valves. Bivalves are very common in essentially all aquatic locales, including saltwater, brackish water, and freshwater
Body Plan. Mollusks have a thin layer of tissue called the mantle. The mantle covers the body organs, which are located in the visceral mass. Between the soft body and the mantle is a space called the mantle cavity. Mollusks contain gills
Bivalves. The mollusks that have a hinged, two-part shell joined by strong muscles are called bivalves. Clams, Oysters, and Scallops are bivalve mollusks and are a familiar food source. These three animals pull their shells closed by contracting powerful muscles near the hinge. The mollusks that have a hinged, two-part shell joined by strong muscles are called bivalves. Clams, Oysters, and Scallops are bivalve mollusks and are a familiar food source