Jennette was born in Garden Grove, California to parents named Debra and Mark McCurdy, and has three older brothers: Marcus, Dustin, and Scott. She is of Puerto Rican and Irish decent. Jennette Michelle Faye McCurdy (born Friday, June 26 th, 1992) is an American actress, producer, screenwriter and singer-songwriter. She used to star as Sam Puckett in the popular Nickelodeon TV show, iCarly until the show ended in 2012.
McCurdy was born in Long Beach, California, raised in Garden Grove, California, and has three older brothers: Marcus, Scott, and Dustin. She gained interest in acting after watching Harrison Ford in Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope right after her mother recovered from breast cancer. 28 pages on this wiki. Jennette Michelle Faye McCurdy (born June 26, 1992) is an American film and television actress and country pop singer-songwriter. She is best known for her role as Sam Puckett on the Nickelodeon sitcom iCarly.
http://www.totallyjennette.com/. Jennette Michelle Faye McCurdy was born June 26, 1992. She is most known as Sam Puckett on the TV show iCarly but has a long career as an actress. Most recently she has excelled as a country singer. Despite comedic antics and fast talking she is a delicate and dreamy girl. 
Early life. McCurdy was born in Long Beach, California, raised in Garden Grove, California, and has three older brothers: Marcus, Scott, and Dustin. She gained interest in acting after watching Harrison Ford in Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope right after her mother recovered from breast cancer. 
Jennette is an American actress born on the 26th of June 1992. The 22 year old actress was born in Long Beach California and raised in Garden Grove. She is a multi talented celebrity with a combination of singing, songwriting and acting skills. Her interest in acting came much later in her life after getting the inspiration from Harrison Ford’s role in Star Wars.
McCurdy was born in Long Beach, California and grew up in Garden Grove, California. She has three older brothers named Marcus, Scott, and Dustin. She is of Dutch, French, Irish, Italian, and Swedish heritage. McCurdy and former iCarly co-star and close friend Miranda Cosgrove were noticeably absent from the 2014 Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards in an apparent boycott; Sam & Cat won Favorite Show and Ariana Grande won Best Actress, a category for which McCurdy was also nominated.
Jennette McCurdy was born in Long Beach, California and raised in Garden Grove, California. McCurdy is a Christian, but she hasn’t let us in on what denomination. There’s a fair bit of speculation that she’s a Mormon, but no verifiable source that I can find. 
Early life Edit. McCurdy was born in Long Beach, California, raised in Garden Grove, California, and has three older brothers: Marcus, Scott, and Dustin. She gained interest in acting after watching Harrison Ford in Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope right after her mother recovered from breast cancer. 1 Jennette has an Instagram account. 2  Jennette is working on a new movie with iCarly co-star Noah Munck and other Nickelodeon stars Ariana Grande, Chris O'neal, Noah Crawford, and Ciara Bravo. 3  This is second time, McCurdy has worked with an iCarly co-star for a movie. 4  The first was Jerry Trainor for Best Player.