This means that it helps prevent clots from forming in the blood. Blood thinners are used to treat some types of heart disease. You have been prescribed warfarin because your body may be making blood clots or you may have a medical condition known to promote unwanted blood clots.
“I am on warfarin (Coumadin ®). Can I donate blood?” No. A person on a blood thinner (anticoagulant), like warfarin, will not be accepted as a blood donor because of the risk of bleeding to him/her when the vein in the arm is entered with a big needle or venous catheter during the donation process.
Your doctor has prescribed a medicine called a blood thinner to prevent blood clots. Blood clots can put you at risk for heart attack, stroke, and other serious medical problems. A blood thinner is a kind of drug called an anticoagulant (an-te-ko-AG-u-lent). Anti means against and coagulant means to thicken into a gel or solid. Blood thinner drugs work well when they are used correctly.
From the time you start taking your blood thinner, you should try to eat a normal, healthy diet. Like some medicines, vitamins, and herbal supplements, certain foods are known to interact with blood thinners. In particular, foods rich in vitamin K such as spinach and broccoli can have a clotting effect on the blood.
1 Aspirin: You can donate blood and plasma while on aspirin. 2  However, for platelet donation (by apheresis): wait 48 hours after taking aspirin or any medication containing aspirin before donating. 3  Plavix® (Clopidogrel): You can donate blood while on Plavix®.
Yes. Medications that are commonly called blood thinners — such as aspirin, warfarin (Coumadin, Jantoven), dabigatran (Pradaxa), rivaroxaban (Xarelto), apixaban (Eliquis) and heparin — significantly decrease your risk of blood clotting, but will not decrease the risk to zero.
1 Plavix® (Clopidogrel): You can donate blood while on Plavix®. 2  However, for platelet donation (by apheresis): wait 14 days after taking Plavix® before donating. 3  Coumadin® (warfarin), heparin or other prescription blood thinners (such as Lovenox®, Fragmin®, Innohep®, Arixtra®, Pradaxa®, etc.) you should not donate.
The essentials of these policies are: 1  Aspirin: You can donate blood and plasma while on aspirin. 2  Plavix® (Clopidogrel): You can donate blood while on Plavix®. 3  Coumadin® (warfarin), heparin or other prescription blood thinners (such as Lovenox®, Fragmin®, Innohep®, Arixtra®, Pradaxa®, etc.) you should not donate.