Modern day back pain inversion tables consist of a small pad or a cot that you lie on with your feet held in place by gravity boots. You then slowly pivot into an inverted position. You can control the angle of the bed to find an angle that you are comfortable with. start slowly and proceed with caution.
Overview. In inversion therapy, you lie on what is called an inversion table and hang either partially or completely upside down, promoting traction on the spine. Centuries ago, Hippocrates -- known as the father of medicine -- used this type of treatment by hanging patients upside down on ladders.
Inversion therapy doesn't provide lasting relief from back pain, and it's not safe for everyone. Inversion therapy involves hanging upside down, and the head-down position could be risky for anyone with high blood pressure, heart disease or glaucoma.
A back pain inversion table works by reversing the forces of gravity and uses the weight of your body to stretch the lumbar spine. This can be effective in treating back pain caused by lumbar disc problems, or sciatica, or poor posture.
Back pain can be a result of chronic stress, poor posture while sitting and working, or injury. Inversion tables are traction therapy. The Mayo Clinic states, some people find traction temporarily helpful as part of a more comprehensive treatment program for lower back pain caused by spinal disk compression..
In theory, inversion therapy takes gravitational pressure off the nerve roots and disks in your spine and increases the space between vertebrae. Inversion therapy is one example of the many ways in which stretching the spine (spinal traction) has been used in an attempt to relieve back pain.
Inversion tables have quickly become a best-selling product thanks to the claims that they can help relieve all types of back pain issues. Doctors and physical therapists have recommended inversion table therapy to many of their patients who suffer from lower back pain caused by herniated discs or bulging discs.
Inversion tables can help with your back pain. You may not realize how much you rely on your back functioning properly until it's in pain, turning simplest of tasks into strenuous labor. Among the various ways to treat back pain, inversion therapy treatment is an increasingly popular way of curbing such problems.