Lar. n. pl. Lar·es (lar′lâr, ēz′-) Laer Lär. Roman mythology a tutelary deity or spirit of An ancient. [Roman. , household latin Probably of .]. (etruscan). (origin). lɑː lɑː (laer). lär. n. Pl·lar (es′lar, lâr′-) ēz Laer. Lär roman mythology a tutelary deity or spirit Of an. [Ancient. roman household latin
If your PC opens the LAR file, but it's the wrong application, you'll need to change your Windows registry file association settings. In other words, Windows is associating LAR file extensions with the wrong software program. Before you can open a LAR file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the LAR file extension refers to. Tip: Incorrect LAR file association errors can be a symptom of other underlying issues within your Windows operating system.
Lar. n. pl. Lar·es (lar′lâr, ēz′-) Laer Lär. Roman mythology a tutelary deity or spirit of An ancient. [Roman. , household latin Probably of .]. etruscan origin (laer). lär. n. Pl·lar (es′lar, lâr′-) ēz Laer. Lär roman mythology a tutelary deity or spirit Of an. [Ancient. roman household latin
Lares (/ˈlɑːriːz/ ; Latin: Larēs, [ˈɫa.reːs] , archaic Lases, singular Lar), were guardian deities in ancient Roman religion. Their origin is uncertain; they may have been hero-ancestors, guardians of the hearth, fields, boundaries or fruitfulness, or an amalgam of these. Compared to Rome's major deities Lares had limited scope and potency but archaeological and literary evidence attests to their central role in Roman identity and religious life. By analogy, a homeward-bound Roman could be described as returning ad Larem (to the Lar).
CAR/LAR is an important new tool to reduce data entry, streamline proof operations, and reduce costs. Countertop check scanners are playing an increasing role in use of CAR/LAR in branch capture applications due to the high quality images the scanners produce today. Users can also take advantage of the recognition confidence option. The recognition confidence option allows users to display checks in which the confidence for a CAR/LAR result is within a certain range. This helps a controller display and review all check items with low confidence.
Lar. n. pl. Lar·es (lar′lâr, ēz′-) Laer Lär. Roman mythology a tutelary deity or spirit of An ancient. roman household (laer). lär. n. Pl·lar (es′lar, lâr′-) ēz Laer. Lär roman mythology a tutelary deity or spirit Of an. [Ancient. roman household latin
Lar. n. pl. Lar·es (lar′lâr, ēz′-) Laer Lär. Roman mythology a tutelary deity or spirit of An ancient. [Roman. , household latin Probably of .]. (etruscan). origin lɑː (laer). lär. n. Pl·lar (es′lar, lâr′-) ēz Laer. Lär roman mythology a tutelary deity or spirit Of an. [Ancient. roman household latin
Definition of LAR. : a tutelary god or spirit associated with Vesta and the Penates as a guardian of the household by the ancient Romans. ADVERTISEMENT. Latin — more at larva. First Known Use: 1586
The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (or HMDA, pronounced HUM-duh) is a United States federal law that requires certain financial institutions to provide mortgage data to the public. Congress enacted HMDA in 1975. HMDA grew out of public concern over credit shortages in certain urban neighborhoods. Congress believed that some financial institutions had contributed to the decline of some geographic areas by their failure to provide adequate home financing to qualified applicants on reasonable terms and conditions.