January 6, 2012 By Certified Mail Envelopes. Plan on 3 to 5 business days unless you send it Priority Mail 2 or 3 day service. USPS Certified Mail provides the mailer a receipt or ‘proof of mailing’ and evidence of delivery when the letter is delivered. It does not guarantee an exact delivery time because someone must sign for each letter.
Below is a list of approximate delivery times for First Class mail that is sent from Ohio (FL). 
Size and Price. For your letter to qualify as First-Class Mail, you must place it in a rectangular envelope. The weight restriction for First-Class Mail is 13 ounces, which is important to consider if you're enclosing hefty items such as magazines or photographs in your envelope. As of May 2015, you can send a letter by First-Class Mail by buying a Forever stamp, which costs 49 cents. The United States Postal Service reports that letters sent as First-Class Mail should take between one and three business days to reach their destination. This duration depends on how far your letter must travel to its
Given is the calculated distance as well as the driving travel time, which does not take into account driving conditions, traffic, changes in speed, etc. The distance between … Columbus, Ohio and Long Beach, California is about 2,257 miles. The resulting travel time is approximately 1 day and 12 hours. Also will depend on the volume of mail at that time of year. The Christmas season will almost guarantee to take a week. etc etc.     BUT, in an average week it should get there in only a few days.
How long does it take a letter to be delivered from California to Virginia?   First Class mail is delivered in three to five days. Depends on the type of shipping, First class would take no more than 3-4 days. economy shipping could take anywhere from a week to two weeks.
How long does it take for the US Postal Service to deliver a letter mailed in Arizona to Ohio?     Answer     2 to 3 days is the average 1st class postage timing pretty much anywhere in the US. If you mail late in the day and/or are going to a rural a … rea, 3 to 5 is more likely. Depends on the type of shipping, First class would take no more than 3-4 days. economy shipping could take anywhere from a week to two weeks.
I just ordered it tonight and it'll be shipped to me tomorrow, how long will it take to get from California to Ohio with First-Class mail? 
The U.S. Postal Service said that, starting this month, local delivery will take two to three days, depending on the destination’s ZIP code, for single-piece, first-class mail such as a personal letter, bill invoice or payment or a greeting card. 
Timeframe. The United States Postal Services reports that as of January 2011, it takes an average of one to three days for First-Class Mail to arrive at its destination. Priority Mail takes an average of one to two days to arrive, according to the USPS. USPS only includes the time a package stays in transit in their estimations. Packages dropped off at a post office during business hours usually leave that day. Packages dropped off after hours may take an additional day