Groove-billed Ani: Medium-sized black bird with iridescent blue and green overtones, with a very long tail (half the length of the bird). Bill is huge, with arched ridge and narrow grooves. Feeds on insects, ticks, spiders, lizards, fruits, berries and seeds.
Every day, thousands of people identify mystery birds with our online guide. Our profiles feature photos, descriptions, and in many cases, sound files of hundreds of North American birds. We'll tell you what to look and listen for to identify them in the field.
The Red-winged Blackbird, Agelaius phoeniceus, is a passerine bird of the family Icteridae, found in most of North America. These birds breed from Alaska and Newfoundland south to Florida, the Gulf of Mexico, and central Mexico, and winter as far north as Pennsylvania and British Columbia.
I just wanted to thank you for the pictures of the birds. they are so clear,i found the ones that are in my back yard,they are the cute little sparrows with stripes on there heads and the finches,they just showed up today,they were yellow on the breast and black wings and head.
Eastern Kingbird: Large flycatcher, blue-black back, wings, black tail with white terminal band, white underparts. Head is black, has inconspicuous red crown feathers visible when bird is displaying. Black bill, legs, feet. Fluttering stiff-winged direct flight with shallow wing beats.
Indigo Buntings are very blue, and are often confused with bluebirds. Other small to medium-sized native birds with blue bodies include: 1  Buntings: Blue Bunting, Indigo Bunting, Lazuli Bunting, Painted Bunting, Varied Bunting. 2  Jays: Blue Jay, Florida Scrub-Jay, Mexican Jay, Pinyon Jay, Steller's Jay, Western Scrub-Jay.
The common name is taken from the male bird's distinctive red shoulder patches, or epaulets, which are visible when the bird is flying or displaying. At rest, the male shows a paler yellow wingbar against a black background. The female is an inconspicuous shade of brown and considerably smaller than than the male.
King Eider: Large diving duck with black body and white breast, back. The crown and nape are pale blue; distinct bill is orange-red, sweeping upward into a large, orange basal knob outlined in black. Wings are black with large white patches visible in flight.
Starling-Starlings are small to medium-sized passerine birds in the family Sturnidae. Starlings occur naturally only in the Old World (Europe, Asia and Africa), some forms as far east as Australia, but several European and Asian species have been introduced to North America and Australia.