1 In general, place the concrete slab directly on top of the vapor barrier, with the subbase below. 2  If the subbase is sharp angular gravel, a thin layer of sand can be placed on top of the gravel subbase next to the vapor barrier. Place the slab directly on the vapor barrier. For residential work, a 10-mil vapor barrier is probably acceptable. 1  Bottom line: If you want to make sure your slab on ground gets dry and stays dry, use a
Apply the liquid vapor barrier to the concrete slab. Work from one corner out to the edge of the slab making sure that you apply the barrier evenly and that you do not miss any spots. Wait 5 to 6 hours for the barrier to dry and then apply another coat and let dry for 12 hours. 1 If you are going to install flooring over the top of your concrete slab you can also lay down a plastic vapor barrier over the top of the concrete slab. Make sure that any overlapping pieces of the barrier are sealed together with vapor barrier tape.
Some specifiers re-quire a sand layer or a crushed baseover the vapor barrier. Others insistthat the vapor barrier be placed direct-ly under the slab. Specifiers must care-fully consider the effect of the locationof the vapor barrier on the perfor-mance of the concrete slab. If the vapor barrier is usedonly to reduce subgrade friction,punching holes in the vapor barriermay be permitted (Ref. 3). Vapor barrier effect on subgrade friction Some engineers believe that placingthe vapor barrier in contact with theconcrete slab reduces subgrade fric-tion.
A vapor barrier is the key to waterproofing under a concrete basement or slab. Without a vapor barrier, dampness can lead to a damp floor, indoor humidity and mold. Vapor barriers are recommended even in dry climates. Soil always harbors moisture, and the drier air will pull out the moisture. How to Install a Vapor Barrier. Add a strong, impermeable vapor barrier under the concrete. It can be installed over or under the gravel base under a basement. For a foundation on slab, install the vapor barrier under the gravel base. Overlap pieces by at least 18 inches, with strong tape on the edge ofthe overlap. If you lay the barrier directly over the gravel base, it may be more difficult to lay the concret
1 . In general, place the concrete slab directly on top of the vapor barrier, with the subbase below. 2  If the subbase is sharp angular gravel, a thin layer of sand can be placed on top of the gravel subbase next to the vapor barrier. 3  See below for more discussion on this. Place the slab directly on the vapor barrier. For residential work, a 10-mil vapor barrier is probably acceptable. 1  Bottom line: If you want to make sure your slab on ground gets dry and stays dry, use a
Slab vapor barrier-Another pour under way, this time the slab is a 100mm thick driveway. Apart from the barrier aspect of the poly layer immediately under the the concrete slab, there is the quality of the concrete to think of. The guys above are pouring a 100mm thick driveway. Under Concrete slab vapor barrier. Under slab vapor barrier, concrete vapour barriers are used under every slab that contains habitable rooms. Full stop! No ifs and buts. Depending on where you live, it is either illegal or just plain stupid to pour concrete without vapour barriers.
The concrete slab is then poured directly over the vapor barrier. (This was not always the case. Prior to the 2000s, a “blotter” layer was recommended between the vapor barrier and the slab. But this practice changed as the difficulties of keeping the blotter layer moisture-free became evident.). There still may be situations where a vapor barrier is necessary over a concrete slab. Even when a slab is dry enough for the recommended use, it is still possible for moisture to migrate from the slab into porous or absorbent flooring materials like wood.
To correct a concrete slab that was poured without a vapor barrier you can apply an effective liquid vapor barrier coating to the top surface of the slab. This isn't your call however, you must get approval from the engineer and building inspector before starting this process. 1 If you are going to install flooring over the top of your concrete slab you can also lay down a plastic vapor barrier over the top of the concrete slab. Make sure that any overlapping pieces of the barrier are sealed together with vapor barrier tape.
Slab vapor barrier-A concrete pour under way, the concrete is being placed directly on top of the vapour barrier. Under Concrete slab vapor barrier. Under slab vapor barrier, concrete vapour barriers are used under every slab that contains habitable rooms. Full stop! No ifs and buts. Depending on where you live, it is either illegal or just plain stupid to pour concrete without vapour barriers.