Raynaud's disease is a vasospastic disorder-spasms in the blood vessels lead to vasoconstriction (narrowing). The disease mostly affects the fingers, toes, tip of the nose and the ears. The problem is in the blood vessels that supply the skin. Smaller arteries narrow and limit blood circulation to affected areas. email. Knowledge center. Raynaud's disease, also known as Raynaud's phenomenon and sometimes simply Raynaud's, is a condition that causes some areas of the body to feel numb and cool in response to cold temperatures or emotional stress, caused by a problem with the blood supply to the skin.
Definition. Raynaud's (ray-NOHZ) disease causes some areas of your body — such as your fingers and toes — to feel numb and cold in response to cold temperatures or stress. In Raynaud's disease, smaller arteries that supply blood to your skin narrow, limiting blood circulation to affected areas (vasospasm). By Mayo Clinic Staff. Raynaud's (ray-NOHZ) disease causes some areas of your body — such as your fingers and toes — to feel numb and cold in response to cold temperatures or stress.
1 Primary Raynaud's. 2  Also called Raynaud's disease, this most common form isn't the result of an underlying associated medical condition that could provoke vasospasm. 3  Secondary Raynaud's. 4  Also called Raynaud's phenomenon, this form is caused by an underlying problem. 1 Also called Raynaud's disease, this most common form isn't the result of an underlying associated medical condition that could provoke vasospasm. 2  Secondary Raynaud's. 3
Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood from your heart to different parts of your body. Raynaud's sometimes is called a disease, syndrome, or phenomenon. The disorder is marked by brief episodes of vasospasm (VA-so-spazm), which is a narrowing of the blood vessels. Vasospasm of the arteries reduces blood flow to the fingers and toes. In people who have Raynaud's, the disorder usually affects the fingers. In about 40 percent of people who have Raynaud's, it affects the toes. Rarely, the disorder affects the nose, ears, nipples, and lip
The variety of Raynaud's phenomenon that occurs with scleroderma can be so severe that the restricted ... a doctor specializing in the treatment of arthritis and other diseases of the ... blood vessels may help prevent lung and kidney problems and may help treat Raynaud's disease. ... Raynaud's Disease www.lifescript.com/health/a-z/mayo/r/raynauds_disease.aspx. Raynaud's phenomenon can be associated with various diseases that affect arteries, such as the ... in which the blood vessels of the hands and feet become inflamed (Buerger's disease). ... the arteries of the lungs (primary pulmonary hypertension) can be linked to Raynaud's
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In medicine, Raynaud's /reɪˈnoʊz/ Disease or Raynaud phenomenon is excessively reduced blood flow in response to cold or emotional stress, causing discolouration of the fingers, toes, and occasionally other areas. This condition may also cause nails to become brittle with longitudinal ridges. Patients with Secondary Raynaud's can also have symptoms related to their underlying diseases. Raynaud's phenomenon is the initial symptom that presents for 70% of patients with scleroderma, a skin and joint disease. When Raynaud's phenomenon is limited to one hand or one foot, it is referred to as Unilateral Raynaud's.
The cause of Raynaud's phenomenon is unknown. It can occur by itself, as primary Raynaud's (also called Raynaud's disease), or as a consequence of other illnesses, such as scleroderma. In the latter case, it is called secondary Raynaud's. ... Raynaud's Disease www.lifescript.com/health/a-z/mayo/r/raynauds_disease.aspx. Raynaud's phenomenon can be associated with various diseases that affect arteries, such as the ... in which the blood vessels of the hands and feet become inflamed (Buerger's disease). ... the arteries of the lungs (primary pulmonary hypertension) can be linked to