The name Eira is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Eira is: Snow. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Meaning of Eira. Eira is an indirect Quranic name that’s used for both boys and girls. It means “kindling”, to kindle a fire, to start a fire. It is derived from the W-R-Y root which is used in many places in the Quran. 
The name Eira is in the following categories: Celtic Names, Finnish Names, Mythological Names, Nature Names, Nordic Names, Places Names, Scandinavian Names, Welsh Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here). Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Eira. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Eira, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Tweet. Eira is used predominantly in English, Finnish, and Welsh, and its origin is Welsh. It is derived literally from the word 'eira' which is of the meaning snow. Eira's language of origin is Old Norse and it is predominantly used in the Scandinavian language. The first name is derived from the name of the Norse goddess of medicine. [ 2 syll. ei-ra, eir-a ] The baby girl name Eira is pronounced as-AY-Raa-or-OY Raa †. Eir, Eyr, and Eyra are variations of Eira. See also the related form, Gweneira (Welsh). Eira is a rarely used baby name for girls.
Eira /eira/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Welsh origin, and the meaning of Eira is snow. Modern coinage from the word eira. In the Scandinavian language, it is a variant of Eir. A pretty name for a winter baby. Eira is an uncommon first name for females and an equally rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Eira for girls
Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Eira and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Eira and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Eira. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Eira, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Eira is alike in pronunciation to Airi, Ara ▼ , Aura, Eiry, Iara, Ira ▼ , Ora ▼ , Orra, Uira, Yaira, Yara and Yeira. Other recommended similar baby names are Cira, Edira, Edra, Eidra, Eigra, Eila, Eire, Kira ▲ , Lira, Mira ▲ and Nira. These names tend to be more frequently used than Eira. Eira is an uncommon first name for females and an equally rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Eira for girls
Meaning of Eira. Irish name. In Irish, the name Eira means-snow. Other origins for the name Eira include-Irish, Welsh.The name Eira is most often used as a girl name or female name. Irish Name Meaning-snow.