The Australian flag has six stars. The group of five stars to the right form the constellation of the Southern Cross, a valuable navigation aid to early sailors travelling thr … ough the southern hemisphere. The sixth star, situated below the Union Jack, is known as the Federation or Commonwealth star. The Australian flag has six stars. The group of five stars to the right of the Union Jack form the constellation of the Southern Cross, a valuable navigation aid to early sa … ilors travelling through the southern hemisphere.
The main star formation on the Australian flag, to the right of the Union Jack, is the constellation known as the Southern Cross. This constellation of five stars can be seen only from the southern hemisphere and is a reminder of Australia's geography. The star below the Union Jack is not part of the formation. The Australian flag has six stars. The group of five stars to the right of the Union Jack form the constellation of the Southern Cross, a valuable navigation aid to early sa … ilors travelling through the southern hemisphere.
Before Federation the Australian colonies made use of the flags of Great Britain-the Union Flag and the British Red, White and Blue Ensigns. On 1 January 1901 the six colonies united under the name of Commonwealth of Australia and our people became one nation. The Union Flag or Union Jack. 
The flag's original design (with a six-pointed Commonwealth Star) was chosen in 1901 from entries in a competition held following Federation, and was first flown in Melbourne on 3 September 1901, the date proclaimed as Australian National Flag Day. The seven-pointed commonwealth star version was introduced by a proclamation dated 23 February 1908. The dimensions were formally gazetted in 1934, and in 1954 the flag became recognised by, and legally defined in, the Flags Act 1953, as the  Australian National Flag .
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: there are 6 stars in all on the australian flag. the one directly below the union jack is called the 'commonwealth star'. the other 5 remaining stars are named after the 'southern cross' constellation. Source(s): greg · 7 years ago. Thumbs up
The flag of Australia is a defaced Blue Ensign: a blue field with the Union Jack in the canton (upper hoist quarter), and a large white seven-pointed star known as the Commonwealth Star in the lower hoist quarter. The seven-pointed commonwealth star version was introduced by a proclamation dated 23 February 1908. The dimensions were formally gazetted in 1934, and in 1954 the flag became recognised by, and legally defined in, the Flags Act 1953, as the  Australian National Flag .
There are six stars on the Australian flag. The five stars on the right hand side of the Australian flag represent the constellation called 'The Southern Cross'. This conste … llation is unique to the southern skies, and was a valuable navigation aid to early sailors. The seven-pointed star beneath the Union Jack is the Commonwealth star, or Federation star. The Australian flag has six stars. The group of five stars to the right of the Union Jack form the constellation of the Southern Cross, a valuable navigation aid to early sa … ilors travelling through the southern hemisphere.
The Australian Flag was first flown in 1901. The flag consists of three elements: the Union Jack, the Commonwealth Star and the Southern Cross. In the upper left corner the Union Jack represents Australia's association with Great Britain. Directly below the Union Jack is the white Commonwealth, or Federation star. Six of the stars represent the unity of the states. The seventh point, added to stars in 1909, denotes territories of the Commonwealth of Australia. The Southern Cross with its five stars, is on the right side of the flag.
1 The Australian Red Ensign-Merchant Navy, as for the Australian flag, but with a red field with white stars. 2  Proclaimed in the Flags Act 1953. 3  Covers Australian registered ships under section 30 of the Shipping Registration Act 1981. 1 The Sky-blue Ensign-Royal Australian Air Force-as for the Australian flag but with a pale blue field, the southern cross rotated clockwise c. 20 degrees and the blue roundel with white inner and red kangaroo of the Royal Australian Air Force in the lower fly.