An embedded system is a computer system with a dedicated function within a larger mechanical or electrical system, often with real-time computing constraints. It is embedded as part of a complete device often including hardware and mechanical parts. Embedded systems control many devices in common use today. Many embedded systems consist of small, computerized parts within a larger device that serves a more general purpose. For example, the Gibson Robot Guitar features an embedded system for tuning the strings, but the overall purpose of the Robot Guitar is, of course, to play music.
An embedded device is an object that contains a special-purpose computing system. The system, which is completely enclosed by the object, may or may not be able to connect to the Internet. Embedded systems have extensive applications in consumer, commercial, automotive, industrial and healthcare markets. 
ANSWER: An embedded system is a single-purpose computer built into a larger system for the purposes of controlling and monitoring the system [1]. A general purpose computer (e.g. a personal computer) is defined not to be an embedded system. 
An embedded system is a computer that has been built to solve only a few very specific problems and is not easily changed. In contrast, a general-purpose computer can do many different jobs, and can be changed at any time with new programs for new jobs. An embedded system usually does not look like a computer, often there is no keyboard or monitor or mouse. But like any computer it has a processor and software, input and output. The word embedded means it is built into the system
An embedded system is a special purpose system, in which the computer is encapsulated by the device it controls. Unlike a general purpose system an embedded system will … only perform some particular tasks. These are actually systems which are developed for performing some predefined tasks. 
● Definition of an embedded computer system: ■ is a digital system. ■ uses a microprocessor (usually). ■ runs software for some or all of its functions. ■ frequently used as a controller. 02-Embedded-intro 3 What an embedded system isNOT. ● Not a computer system that is used primarily forprocessing. ● Not a software system on a PC or Unix box.
An embedded system can be defined as a control system or computer system designed to perform a specific task. Common examples of embedded systems include MP3 players, navigation systems on aircraft and intruder alarm systems. An example of an embedded system with I/O capability is a security alarm with an LCD status display, and a keypad for entering a password. In general, an Embedded System: It is a combination of hardware and software that performs
Since the embedded system is dedicated to specific tasks, design engineers can optimize it to reduce the size and cost of the product and increase the reliability and performance. Some embedded systems are mass-produced, benefiting from economies of scale. Many embedded systems consist of small, computerized parts within a larger device that serves a more general purpose. For example, the Gibson Robot Guitar features an embedded system for tuning the strings, but the overall purpose of the Robot Guitar is, of course, to play music.
Embedded Computer Systems. An embedded system is a special-purpose system in which the computer is completely encapsulated by the device it controls. Unlike a general-purpose computer, such as a personal computer, an embedded system performs pre-defined tasks, usually with very specific requirements. Since the system is dedicated to a specific task, design engineers can optimize it, reducing the size and cost of the product. Embedded systems are often mass-produced, so the cost savings may be multiplied by millions of items.