Once inside the lumen of the nephron, small molecules, such as ions, glucose and amino acids, get reabsorbed from the filtrate: 1  Specialized proteins called transporters are located on the membranes of the various cells of the nephron. 2  These transporters grab the small molecules from the filtrate as it flows by them. Two major factors affect the reabsorption process: 1  Concentration of small molecules in the filtrate-the higher the concentration, the more molecules can be reabsorbed.
reabsorption. 1. the act or process of absorbing again, as the absorption by the kidneys of substances that were already secreted into the tubules, such as glucose, proteins, or sodium. reabsorption. 1. the act or process of absorbing again, as the absorption by the kidneys of substances (glucose, proteins, sodium, etc.) already secreted into the renal tubules.
The figure at right summarizes water reabsorption along the nephron. Water reabsorption is a passive process: water is reabsorbed by osmosis. In most of the nephron, water reabsorption is unregulated and coupled to solute reabsorption. The ability to excrete urine that is more concentrated than the extracellular fluid (ECF) depends on the creation of a hyperosmotic environment in the medulla. 
Also called resorption. The flow of glomerular filtrate from the proximal tubule of the nephron into the peritubular capillaries, which allows the selective passage of certain substances (glucose, proteins, sodium) back into the circulation. reabsorption. 1. the act or process of absorbing again, as the absorption by the kidneys of substances (glucose, proteins, sodium, etc.) already secreted into the renal tubules.
For example, the kidney selectively reabsorbs substances it has already secreted into the renal tubules, such as glucose, protein, and sodium. These reabsorbed substances are returned to the blood. 
Reabsorption. In physiology, reabsorption or tubular reabsorption is the flow of glomerular filtrate from the proximal tubule of the nephron into the peritubular capillaries, or from the urine into the blood. Thus, the glomerular filtrate becomes more concentrated, which is one of the steps in forming urine. In this way, many useful solutes, salts and water that have passed in the proximal convoluted tubule through the Bowman's capsule, return in the circulation.
Reabsorption. Reabsorption is the movement of water and solutes from the tubule back into the plasma. Reabsorption of water and specific solutes occurs to varying degrees over the entire length of the renal tubule. Bulk reabsorption, which is not under hormonal control, occurs largely in the proximal tubule. Filtration is the mass movement of water and solutes from plasma to the renal tubule that occurs in the renal corpuscle. About 20% of the plasma volume passing through the glomerulus at any given time is filtered. This means that about 180 liters of fluid are filtered by the kidneys every day
• REABSORPTION (noun). The noun REABSORPTION has 1 sense: 1. the organic process in which the substance of some differentiated structure that has been produced by the body undergoes lysis and assimilation. Familiarity information: REABSORPTION used as a noun is very rare. 