You may be able to exclude from income all or a portion of the gain on your home sale. If you can exclude all of the gain, you do not need to report the sale on your tax return, unless you received a Form 1099-S (.pdf), Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions. If you used and owned the property as your principal residence for 2 years out of the 5 year period ending on the date of sale, you have met the ownership and use tests for the exclusion. This is true even though the property was used as rental property for the 3 years before the date of the sale.
The part of your property used for business or rental use is within your home, such as a home office for a business. You do not need to allocate gain on the sale of the property between the business or rental part of the property and the part used as a home. In addition, you do not need to report the sale of the business or rental part on Form 4797. This is true whether or not you were entitled to claim any depreciation. 1 What forms do we file to report a loss on the sale of a rental property? 2  I have heard that I can sell my rental property and use the proceeds to purchase rental property of equal or greater value and the transaction is viewed just like an exchange in that the tax is deferred until the new property is sold.
Report the gain or loss on the sale of rental property on Form 4797 (.pdf), Sales of Business Property. Individuals typically use Schedule D (Form 1040) (.pdf), Capital Gains and Losses, together with Form 4797. 1 What forms do we file to report a loss on the sale of a rental property? 2  I have heard that I can sell my rental property and use the proceeds to purchase rental property of equal or greater value and the transaction is viewed just like an exchange in that the tax is deferred until the new property is sold.
The Internal Revenue Service considers rental property to be business property, so you can’t just report the gain or loss on your Form 1040. You must also complete and file IRS Form 4797, Sales of Business Property. If your rental property is a home, it’s a Section 1250 property, so you must complete Part III of the form to determine if you have a gain. Then enter the resulting number on line 32 on line 6 of Part I. If you owned the property for more than a year before selling it, the process changes. Shares & Saves. Save. If you own rental property and sell it during the tax year, you might want to consult with an accountant or tax professional when April comes around. USA TODAY warns that reporting the sale on your tax return isn’t a task for the faint of heart -- unless you have some tax savvy and experience.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. On the sale of rental property you need to deduct any amount depreciated from the initial cost basis. On the other side, any capital improvements you have done to the property needs to be added to the initial cost basis. 
Hello all, I am trying to figure out how to fill out form 4797 for the tax year 2013. The duplex was purchased in 2007 for $240,000 and sold in 2013 for $251,900. It was used as a rental property the entire time and was never owner occupied. Here are the facts............ The sale of the house goes in Part III of the 4797 as a Sec. 1250 Property. The sale of the land goes on Part I of the 4797. It gets combined on line 13 of your Form 1040 as a capital asset. So the answer to your last question is this does count as two sales on your 4797, but one as a Schedule D
The amount of the proceeds from the sale of your home that you use to pay off the mortgage is not a factor in figuring your taxable amount for the sale. Instead, the amount you realize on the sale of your home and the adjusted basis of your home are important in determining whether you are subject to tax on the sale. If you used and owned the property as your principal residence for 2 years out of the 5 year period ending on the date of sale, you have met the ownership and use tests for the exclusion. This is true even though the property was used as rental property for the 3 years before the date of the sale.
Page 2 of Schedule E is used to report income or loss from partnerships, S corporations, estates, trusts, and real estate mortgage investment conduits. If you need to use page 2 of Schedule E, be sure to use page 2 of the same Schedule E you used to enter your rental activity on page 1. The basic form for reporting residential rental income and expenses is Schedule E (Form 1040). However, do not use that schedule to report a not-for-profit activity. See Not Rented for Profit, in chapter 4.
How To Report Rental Income & Expenses. If you rent buildings, rooms, or apartments, and provide only heat and light, trash collection, etc., you normally report your rental income and expenses in Part I of Schedule E (Form 1040). However, do not use that schedule to report a not-for-profit activity. Use Part I of Schedule E (Form 1040) to report your rental income and expenses. List your total income, expenses, and depreciation for each rental property.