CORPORAL (CPL). (Addressed as Corporal). The base of the Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO) ranks, CPLs serve as team leader of the smallest Army units. Like SGTs, they are responsible for individual training, personal appearance and cleanliness of Soldiers. 
Established in 1966, the Sergeant Major of the Army (SMA) is the senior enlisted position of the Army. The sergeant major in this position serves as the senior enlisted advisor and consultant to the Chief of Staff of the Army. 
Additional Reading: Noncommissioned officers (NCOs) are the primary trainers of enlisted Soldiers, crews, and small teams. Their experience and knowledge are critical to determining the right collective tasks for the unit to train. NCOs train Soldiers and help officers train units. They develop and conduct training for their subordinates, coach and mentor other NCOs, and help train and educate junior officers. They instill in Soldiers discipline, resiliency, the Warrior Ethos, and Army Values.
First Sergeant. Serves as senior enlisted advisor to the commander of 223rd Transportation Company with an authorized strength of 166 Soldiers. Responsible for training, administration, professional development, personnel accountability, safety, morale and mentoring of all assigned Soldiers. First Sergeant for a basic training company consisting of 24 Soldiers, including 12 Drill Sergeants, Drill Sergeant Candidates, Training NCO and 2 Supply Sergeants.
There's No Limit To A Soldier's Success. Once you decide to join the Army, your success depends only on your desire and commitment to become a better Soldier. Learn about the various Army ranks for Enlisted Soldiers, Officers and Warrant Officers. You will also find the insignias of all of the Army branches, along with a description of the role each branch plays in the Army structure. 
As an NCO, you serve as the primary trainer for enlisted Soldiers, crews and small teams. You must conduct standards-based, performance-oriented, mission-and METL-focused PRT. In order to accomplish this, you need to do the following: 1  Identify the specific individual, crew, and small team tasks that PRT enhances in support of your unit’s METL. 2  Prepare, rehearse, and execute PRT, effectively and professionally. 3  Evaluate PRT and conduct AARs; provide feedback to the commander.
NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS TRAIN INDIVIDUALS, CREWS, AND SMALL TEAMS. Noncommissioned officers serve as the primary trainers for enlisted Soldiers, crews, and small teams. Noncommissioned officers must conduct standards-based, performance-oriented, mission-and METL-focused PRT. 
CORPORAL (CPL). Corporal is the base level of the Noncommissioned Officer (NCO) ranks. Corporals serve as team leader of the smallest Army units. Like Sergeants, they are responsible for individual training, personal appearance and cleanliness of Soldiers. SERGEANT MAJOR OF THE ARMY. There's only one Sergeant Major of the Army. The SMA oversees all Noncommissioned Officers. He serves as the senior enlisted advisor and consultant to the Chief of Staff of the Army (a four-star General).
The propriety of the duties is determined by the official purpose they serve rather than the nature of the duties. ” -DoD Directive 1315.9. Front Range Training and Consulting LLC provides training and education for Enlisted Aides throughout the Department of Defense. Enlisted Aides are assigned to serve in a General Officer’s residence to create and maintain an environment suitable for that general to conduct official business. 