Watch as world champion BBQ chef Joe Davidson explains how to prepare and perfectly grill the best damn burger in the world. Using a ribeye steak to start with, Joe Davidson will walk you through each step on how to make the best burger you will ever taste. 
Directions. Preheat a grill to high heat. Place rib-eye steaks on a large platter and season with rub on all sides. Transfer seasoned steaks to the hot grill, and cook for 4 to 6 minutes on each side for medium-rare, longer if desired. Remove steaks and let rest for 5 to 10 minutes before serving. In a small bowl, combine all ingredients, to taste. Adjust the ratio of spices to your preference.
1 1. Preheat the oven to 350째F. 2  Sprinkle the roast generously with salt and pepper, then place on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. 3  2. 4  Roast the meat for 2 hours and 20 minutes (or about 14 minutes per pound at 130째F on a meat thermometer) for rare meat. Be sure to cook the beef just to rare or medium-rare. This way, the meat won't overcook or dry out when you use the leftovers in the other recipes. Be sure to cook the beef just to rare or medium-rare. This way, the meat won't overcook or dry out when you use the leftovers in the other recipes. Cancel Print.
Place a 10-to-12-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and heat the oven to 500 degrees F. Bring the steak to room temperature. When the oven reaches temperature, remove the skillet and place on the range over high heat for 5 minutes. Coat the steak lightly with oil and sprinkle both sides with a generous pinch of salt. Grind on black pepper. Immediately place the steak in the middle of the hot, dry skillet. Cook 30 seconds without moving. Turn with tongs and cook another 30 seconds, then put the pan straight into the oven for 2 minutes. Flip the steak and cook for another 2 minutes. (This time is for medium-rare steak. If you prefer medium, add a minute to both of the oven turns.). Remove the steak from the skillet, cover loosely with foil and rest for 2 minutes. Serve whole or slice thin and fan onto plate
A 1 1/2-inch steak should cook for about 5 minutes on each side in a hot skillet or grill. Invest in some grapeseed oil -- it has a higher smoke-point than most neutral oils, which means you can get a better sear on your steak without setting off the fire alarm. 
Heat a griddle pan, brush the patties with olive oil and cook, for about 3 minutes per side, or until done to preference. burgers grilled with toasted buns. The burgers and the buns are the basic components. The build is the other. I like to toast the rolls face down down on a dry, hot griddle pan. 
3. Grill the steak. Now that the grill pan is really hot, place the Rib eye onto it. If you are using a regular frying pan, pour a little oil on it (not too much!) before you add the steak. Then cook the meat until the bottom is brown and crispy. Check to see if it's ready to flip by turning one end up -- if a crust has built, it's time. Remove and rest. When ready, remove the Rib eye from the pan with your tongs and place it immediately onto a rack. A tray will do, with a spoon inverted to act as a rack, if you don't have one. This will stop the meat from steaming (which cooks it further) and will keep it at your desired level of doneness.
//d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/d/d4/Cook Rib Eye Steak Step 1.360p.mp4. 1  Another option is to put the pan in the oven and turn the oven to 500째F (260째 C). 2  When the oven reaches that temperature, take it out and place the pan on high heat on the stovetop. Remove and rest. When ready, remove the Rib eye from the pan with your tongs and place it immediately onto a rack. A tray will do, with a spoon inverted to act as a rack, if you don't have one. This will stop the meat from steaming (which cooks it further) and will keep it at your desired level of doneness.
Be sure to cook the beef just to rare or medium-rare. This way, the meat won't overcook or dry out when you use the leftovers in the other recipes. Be sure to cook the beef just to rare or medium-rare. This way, the meat won't overcook or dry out when you use the leftovers in the other recipes. 1  1 boneless prime rib eye roast of beef, about 10 pounds after boning. 2  Salt and coarsely ground black pepper, to taste. Be sure to cook the beef just to rare or medium-rare. This way, the meat won't overcook or dry out when you use the leftovers in the other recipes. Be sure to cook the beef just to rare or medium-rare. This way, the meat won't overcook or dry out when you use the leftovers in the other recipes. Cancel Print.
1 Rub butter mixture all over roast and season meat with salt and black pepper. 2  Place roast, fat-side up, in a roasting pan. 3  Roast in the preheated oven for 20 minutes, reduce heat to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C), and continue cooking until roast is reddish-pink and juicy in the center, 1 1/2 to 2 hours. 1 Place roast, fat-side up, in a roasting pan. 2  Roast in the preheated oven for 20 minutes, reduce heat to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C), and continue cooking until roast is reddish-pink and juicy in the center, 1 1/2 to 2 hours. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C).