1 Gas-Producing Foods: Starchy Foods Starches, which are very high in carbohydrates, can cause gas when your digestive tract goes through the process of breaking them down. 2  At the top of the list are foods made with wheat, including breads, cereals, and pastas, all of which can lead to intestinal gas. Vegetables that have soluble fiber, like peas, can cause gas as they’re digested in the large intestine. Those with insoluble fiber should pass through without discomfort or excessive gas. 1  Gas-Producing Foods: Fruits Some fruits contain another sugar, called sorbitol, which causes excessive gas. The biggest culprits include prunes, apples, peaches, and pears. Sugar-free gum and candy are sweetened with sorbitol, which is why they can lead to excessive gas, too
If you have gas or bloating, it is OK to eat apples if you know they didn’t cause your gas initially. The University of Illinois indicates that eating one apple per day supports good health and is generally not enough to cause any negative symptoms. Gas and bloating are not fatal, but are generally a sign of slowed or obstructed digestion. However, severe cases of gas or bloating can cause pain and cramps. Introducing apples into your diet can help to restart and maintain healthy
Some fruits, however, are more likely to cause gas than others because they contain more of the carbohydrates that aren't well-digested, which include fructose and fiber. Fruits high in fiber may increase your risk for gas, especially if you aren't used to eating much fiber. People can't digest fiber, but bacteria in the digestive tract break it down, and this process can cause gas.
1 Gas-Producing Foods: Fruits Some fruits contain another sugar, called sorbitol, which causes excessive gas. 2  The biggest culprits include prunes, apples, peaches, and pears. 3  Sugar-free gum and candy are sweetened with sorbitol, which is why they can lead to excessive gas, too. Vegetables that have soluble fiber, like peas, can cause gas as they’re digested in the large intestine. Those with insoluble fiber should pass through without discomfort or excessive gas. 1  Gas-Producing Foods: Fruits Some fruits contain another sugar, called sorbitol, which causes excessive gas. The biggest culprits include prunes, apples, peaches, and pears.
RE: Can apples cause gas? This might be completely out of whack. I know the benefits of &#39; an apple a day keeps the doctor away&#39;, but one thing that has been puzzling me lately is this problem of getting gas after I have had an apple. No matter what time of the day I eat an apple, the pressure start. Does anyone else... Source(s): apples gas: https://shortly.im/xLD9W.
Fruits are a rich source of vitamins, minerals and other essential nutrients. But too much consumption of fruits in a day can cause indigestion problems. Some fruits that cause gas contain a sugar called sorbitol and some soluble fibres. These do not get easily digested and hence, lead to intestinal gas formation. This is the season of mangoes, but even mango is not sin free in regards to the digestion. Some other fruits that cause gas are apples, peaches, pears and prunes. Let us have a look into some easy methods to overcome the harmful effects of the fruits that cause ga
Body Ecology shows you how to alleviate painful gas, naturally! Experiencing flatulence on a regular basis can be both embarrassing and painful. Not only do you have to deal with the anxiety of having gas in public, but also gas, belching and bloating sometimes cause serious discomfort. Any number of things can cause gas, from chronic diseases to improper food combining. 
Photo Credit Feng Yu/iStock/Getty Images. All fruits have the potential to cause gas because they contain carbohydrates, some of which aren't well-digested. When these carbohydrates reach the intestines, bacteria break them down using a process that results in gas. Fruits high in fiber may increase your risk for gas, especially if you aren't used to eating much fiber. People can't digest fiber, but bacteria in the digestive tract break it down, and this process can cause gas.