The most common medication used to treat schizophrenia is an antipsychotic medication. There are two types: typical and atypical. The typical ones were developed at the height of I Love Lucy’s popularity. Atypical antipsychotics were developed at the height of Friends and Seinfeld in the 1990s. A Dr. Douglas Severance, MD, Family Medicine, answered. Antipsychotic medications are the most commonly used drugs to treat schizophrenia. These medicines balance chemicals in the brain to reduce the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, including delusions and hallucinations.
It is a common misnomer that atypical antipsychotic medications have less side effects than other drugs. Atypical antipsychotic medications have significant side effects, it’s just that their side effect profile is different than that of most other drugs used to treat mental disorders. By John M. Grohol, Psy.D. ~ 1 min read. The most recent medications typically prescribed for schizophrenia include a class of drugs called “atypical antipsychotics.” Atypical means they work in a manner that is significantly different than the previous class of antipsychotic medications.
Medications. Medications are the cornerstone of schizophrenia treatment. However, because medications for schizophrenia can cause serious but rare side effects, people with schizophrenia may be reluctant to take them. Antipsychotic medications are the most commonly prescribed drugs to treat schizophrenia. These newer, second-generation medications are generally preferred because they pose a lower risk of serious side effects than do conventional medications. They include: 1  Aripiprazole (Abilify). 2  Asenapine (Saphris). 3  Clozapine (Clozaril).
By National Institute of Mental Health ~ 1 min read. Substance abuse is a common concern of the family and friends of people with schizophrenia. Since some people who abuse drugs may show symptoms similar to those of schizophrenia, people with schizophrenia may be mistaken for people “high on drugs.”. 
Side effects of antipsychotic medications can often be treated by changing the dose of the medication, switching to a different medication, or treating the side effect directly with an additional medication. Common inconvenient side effects of all antipsychotic drugs used to treat schizophrenia include: 1  dry mouth. 2  constipation. 3  blurred vision. 4  drowsiness.
Considering taking medication to treat Schizophrenia? Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Schizophrenia. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. 
People with schizophrenia often do not believe that they are ill or that they need treatment. Other possible things that may interfere with the treatment plan include side effects from medications, substance abuse, negative attitudes towards treatment from families and friends, or even unrealistic expectations. Once medical causes have been looked for and not found, a psychotic illness such as schizophrenia could be considered. Schizophrenia treatment involves medications and therapy to reduce the risk of future psychotic episodes and improve relationships. Read on to learn your options. This overview looks at schizophrenia medications and their side effect
Schizophrenia can have a devastating impact on patients and their families. Patients with schizophrenia have increased risk for self-destructive behaviors and suicide. The antipsychotic drugs used to treat schizophrenia can have severe side effects, including increased risk of obesity and diabetes. Most drugs that treat schizophrenia work by blocking receptors of the brain chemical (neurotransmitter) dopamine. Dopamine is thought to play a major role in psychotic symptoms. Although the drugs used to treat schizophrenia have important benefits, they can also cause many side effects.
Schizophrenia is a psychological disorder that includes symptoms such as hallucinations, anxiety, delusions, paranoia, disorganized thoughts, and catatonia. Hallucinations are commonly auditory (hearing voices). Treatment for schizophrenia includes therapy, hospitalization, and taking medication. Common drug classes used to treat schizophrenia are atypical antipsychotics, typical antipsychotics, and typical antipsychotic / tricyclic antidepressant combinations. 