What is it: a silicone cup that can be used for poaching, baking or moulding. Instructions say to lightly oil the pod before cracking an egg into it and floating it in a saucepan of simmering water. You are then instructed to cover the pan with a tight-fitting lid and cook for about 4-6 minutes. 
PoachPod: Silicone Egg Poachers. Pin it. There's more than one way to poach an egg, that's for sure. I'm still practicing the whirlpool method, but I took a crack at these silicone PoachPods ($9.95, Amazon.com) from Lamson & Goodnow. I agree with the recent thumbs-up from The New York Times (subscription required)
Poaching an egg in boiling water is never as simple as it seems. Timing the poaching of the egg in a large amount of water is often difficult, as is pooling the egg white. Everyday cooks may want to look into buying an egg poacher. Egg poachers come in a variety of styles, including stove top pans, electric poachers and microwave poachers. 
Instructions. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Crack an egg and gently slide the egg into your silicone poaching pod, being careful not to break the egg's yolk. Carefully float the poaching pod in the boiling water, making sure the pod stays upright and no water gets into the pod. Cover the pot with the lid and let the egg cook for six minutes. Remove the lid and use a large slotted spoon or tongs to lift the poaching pod out of the hot water. Flip the poaching pod upside down over a plate and gently press on the bottom to release your poached egg onto the plate. 
* Lightly grease the pods before use. * Only half fill the pan you’re poaching in – any more and the water may go over the side of the Pod. * Cook for 4-5 minutes with the lid on. * Run a knife around the edge of the egg when cooked to ease it out. You can buy Poach Pods from Waitrose, Lakeland, and Sainsbury’s
Directions: Fill an egg-poaching pan with 1/2 inch water, set over medium heat and bring to a simmer. Lightly oil the poaching cups and warm the cups in the pan. Crack an egg into each cup, cover the pan and cook to the desired doneness, 2 to 4 minutes; repeat to make 8 poached eggs. Transfer the eggs to individual plates, season with salt and pepper, and serve immediately. Serves 4.
It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. Step 1: Bring the water to simmering Lightly grease a medium skillet (about 10 inches in diameter) or large saucepan. This greasing step is optional but helps keep the whites from sticking to the sides of the pan. It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. Lightly grease a medium skillet (about 10 inches in diameter) or large saucepan.
Make fantactic poached eggs perfect everytime and in no time with the Poach Pods from Howard's Storage World. Simply crack your egg into the silicone poach pod and either float in a pan of boiling water, or place in the microwave, and enjoy perfectly cooked poached eggs. Easy clean set of 2 silicone poach pods. Pan and microwave safe. To view in our online shop visit: http://www.howardsstorageworld.co.uk/..
The PoachPod® is a flexible silicone cooking tool for poaching eggs, baking and molding. The PoachPod® allows you to float and poach an egg in boiling water like a lily pad on a pond. When the egg is ready, flip the nonstick pod inside out and gently push the perfectly domed shaped egg out. Place the pod in the dishwasher for easy clean up. 