The term coccobacilli is non-specific. It's like the term furniture. Furniture can be chairs, tables, sofas, and beds. Coccobacilli can be Chlamydia trachomatis which is an STD and is only sexually transmitted. It can also be H. influenzae or one of the others, which are not STDs.
A coccobacillus (plural coccobacilli) is a type of rod-shaped bacteria. The word coccobacillus reflects an intermediate shape between coccus (spherical) and bacillus (elongated). Coccobacilli rods are so short and wide that they resemble cocci. Haemophilus influenzae and Chlamydia trachomatis are coccobacilli. A coccus (plural cocci, from the Latin coccinus (scarlet) and derived from the Greek kokkos (berry)) is any microorganism (usually bacteria) whose overall shape is spherical or nearly spherical. Describing a bacterium as a coccus, or sphere, distinguishes it from bacillus, or rod.
Best Answer: Coccobacilli can mean alot of things.... but it's a bacteria. It can range from chlamydia to H. infuenzae. It can also be bacterial vaginosis. I'm guessing you read this off of a pap smear. If it was an STD, your doc would have told you. Shift in vaginal flora is read as
my papsmear result showed that i have bacterial infection coccobacilli.. prior to that i had excessive discharge.. first it looked white then turned to greenish and has a foul smell. and my vagina is sore, the inside of my vagina is itchy and reddish..occobacilli can mean alot of things.... but it's a bacteria. It can range from chlamydia to H. infuenzae. It can also be bacterial vaginosis. If it was an STD, your doc would have told you. Shift in vaginal flora is read as bacterial vaginosis. (NOT an STD).
Pap smear shows predominance of coccobacilli consistent with shift in vaginal flora. I just got my Pap Smear report and it says that PREDOMINANCE OF COCCOBACILLI CONSISTENT WITH SHIFT IN VAGINAL FLORA. I dont know what does that mean and my gynecologist didn't bother to explain to me further..I am delayed in my period almost 2 mos already and i tried of a pregnancy test and its negative. pap smear showing a shift in vaginal flora may indicate that you have a bacterial overgrowth. There are bacteria in the vagina that fight off infection, but if infectious bacteria overgrow, these protective bacteria may be overpowered and an infection known as bacterial vaginosis may occur.
Hello, Coccobacilli are rod shaped bacteria, but they are short and fat, so that they look like a cross between rods (bacilli) and spheres (cocci). There are many types of coccobacilli including Haemophilus influenzae, Chlamydia trachomatis, Acinetobacter species, Pasteurella multocida, and a number of others. It's like the term furniture. Furniture can be chairs, tables, sofas, and beds. Coccobacilli can be Chlamydia trachomatis which is an STD and is only sexually transmitted. It can also be H. influenzae or one of the others, which are not STDs.
Coxiella burnetii. A coccobacillus (plural coccobacilli) is a type of bacterium with a shape intermediate between cocci (spherical bacteria) and bacilli (rod-shaped bacteria). 
The others can be found when there is bacterial vaginosis, which is a vaginal infection that occurs when the normal vaginal flora (bacteria and yeasts) are disturbed. The coccobacilli then grow out of bounds.t's like the term furniture. Furniture can be chairs, tables, sofas, and beds. Coccobacilli can be Chlamydia trachomatis which is an STD and is only sexually transmitted. It can also be H. influenzae or one of the others, which are not STDs.
Coccobacilli can mean alot of things.... but it's a bacteria. It can range from chlamydia to H. infuenzae. It can also be bacterial vaginosis. If it was an STD, your doc would have told you. Shift in vaginal flora is read as bacterial vaginosis. (NOT an STD).
Cramps in pubic area. I just got my Pap Smear report and it says that PREDOMINANCE OF COCCOBACILLI CONSISTENT WITH SHIFT IN VAGINAL FLORA. I dont know what does that mean and my gynecologist didn't bother to explain to me further..I am delayed in my period almost 2 mos already and i tried of a pregnancy test and its negative. pap smear showing a shift in vaginal flora may indicate that you have a bacterial overgrowth. There are bacteria in the vagina that fight off infection, but if infectious bacteria overgrow, these protective bacteria may be overpowered and an infection known as bacterial vaginosis may occur.