Alkaline buffer solutions An alkaline buffer solution has a pH greater than 7. Alkaline buffer solutions are commonly made from a weak base and one of its salts. A frequently used example is a mixture of ammonia solution and ammonium chloride solution. Acidic buffer solutions are commonly made from a weak acid and one of its salts-often a sodium salt. A common example would be a mixture of ethanoic acid and sodium ethanoate in solution. In this case, if the solution contained equal molar concentrations of both the acid and the salt, it would have a pH of 4.76.
A buffer solution is a solution that resists changes in pH caused by the addition of acid or alkali. There are two types of buffers: 1. Acidic. 2. Basic. Acidic buffers comprise of a weak acid and its salt. eg. ethanoic acid and sodium ethanoate. Preparation of Buffer Solution: A buffer solution is prepared by mixing equal amount of weak acid and its salt, such as, acetic acid (CH3COOH) and sodium acetate (CH3COONa) or … weak base and its salt, such as, ammonia (NH3) and ammonium chloride (NH4Cl).
Share. Buffer Definition: A buffer is a solution containing either a weak acid and its salt or a weak base and its salt, which is resistant to changes in pH. Examples: blood, TRIS buffer, phosphate buffer. 
For uses not related to acid-base chemistry, see Buffer (disambiguation). A buffer solution (more precisely, pH buffer or hydrogen ion buffer) is an aqueous solution consisting of a mixture of a weak acid and its conjugate base, or vice versa. 
Buffer Solutions. A buffer solution is one in which the pH of the solution is resistant to small additions of either a strong acid or strong base. Buffers usually consist of a weak acid and its conjugate base, in relatively equal and large quantities. In order to calculate the pH of the buffer solution you need to know the amount of acid and the amount of the conjugate base combined to make the solution. These amounts should be either in moles or in molarities.
A buffer solution is an aqueous solution that consists of a mixture  of a weak acid and its conjugate base or a weak base and its  conjugate acid. It is used to run biochemi … cal assays; to prevent  changes in the pH of a solution. 2 people found this useful. Preparation of Buffer Solution: A buffer solution is prepared by mixing equal amount of weak acid and its salt, such as, acetic acid (CH3COOH) and sodium acetate (CH3COONa) or … weak base and its salt, such as, ammonia (NH3) and ammonium chloride (NH4Cl).
Buffer solutions are solutions which resist change in hydronium ion and the hydroxide ion concentration (and consequently pH) upon addition of small amounts of acid or base, or upon dilution. Buffer solutions consist of a weak acid and its conjugate base (more common) or a weak base and its conjugate acid (less common). Report Abuse. A buffer solution is a solution that resists a change in its pH when it is diluted or when an acid or base is added to it. It consists of a weak acid and its conjugate base, or a weak base and its conjugate acid.
Calculation of the pH of a Buffer Solution after Addition of a Small Amount of Strong Base. When a strong base (OH -) is added to a buffer solution, the hydroxide ions are consumed by the weak acid forming water and the weaker conjugate base of the acid. The amount of the weak acid decreases while the amount of the conjugate base increases. In order to calculate the pH of the buffer solution you need to know the amount of acid and the amount of the conjugate base combined to make the solution. These amounts should be either in moles or in molarities.
Definition A buffer solution is one which resists changes in pH when small quantities of an acid or an alkali are added to it. Acidic buffer solutions An acidic buffer solution is simply one which has a pH less than 7. Acidic buffer solutions are commonly made from a weak acid and one of its salts-often a sodium salt. A common example would be a mixture of ethanoic acid and sodium ethanoate in solution. In this case, if the solution contained equal molar concentrations of both the acid and the salt, it would have a pH of 4.76.
A buffer solution is one which resists changes in pH when small quantities of an acid or an alkali are added to it. Acidic buffer solutions. An acidic buffer solution is simply one which has a pH less than 7. Acidic buffer solutions are commonly made from a weak acid and one of its salts-often a sodium salt. A common example would be a mixture of ethanoic acid and sodium ethanoate in solution. In this case, if the solution contained equal molar concentrations of both the acid and the salt, it would have a pH of 4.76.