Deltoid. The deltoid muscle is located on the outer aspect of the shoulder and is recognized by its triangular shape. The deltoid muscle was named after the Greek letter Delta due to the similar shape they both share. The deltoid muscle is constructed with three main sets of fibers: anterior, middle, and posterior. These fibers are connected by a very thick tendon and are anchored into a V-shaped channel. This channel housed in the shaft of the humerus bone in the arm. The deltoid muscle is responsible for the brunt of all arm rotation and allows a person to keep carried objects at a safer distance from the body. It is also tasked with stopping dislocation and injury to the humerus when carrying heavy loads
The deltoid is attached by tendons to the skeleton at the clavicle (collarbone), scapula (shoulder blade), and humerus (upper arm bone). The deltoid is widest at the top of the shoulder and narrows to its apex as it travels down the arm. Contraction of the deltoid muscle results in a wide range of movement of the arm at the shoulder due to its location and the wide separation of its muscle fibers.... Click to read more below. The deltoid muscle is a rounded, triangular muscle located on the uppermost part of the arm and the top of the shoulder
One of the most common injuries to the deltoid muscle is a deltoid strain. Deltoid strain is characterized by sudden and sharp pain where injured, intense soreness and pain when lifting the arm out from the side of the body, and tenderness and swelling caused by (and located at) the deltoid muscle. The deltoid muscle is constructed with three main sets of fibers: anterior, middle, and posterior. These fibers are connected by a very thick tendon and are anchored into a V-shaped channel. This channel housed in the shaft of the humerus bone in the arm.
The deltoid muscle is the muscle that gives the shoulder its rounded shape. Many mammals have this muscle, as the design is very efficient, and this muscle is responsible for the abduction of the shoulder and some of the rotation of the arm or limb. The deltoid muscle is responsible for the shoulder's rounded shape. The military press strengthens the deltoids, or shoulders muscles, and other muscles of the upper body. Deltoid muscles contain three parts: posterior, anterior and lateral. View slideshow of images above.
The deltoid muscle is involved in rotating the shoulder. The deltoid muscle is responsible for the shoulder's rounded shape. The military press strengthens the deltoids, or shoulders muscles, and other muscles of the upper body. Deltoid muscles contain three parts: posterior, anterior and lateral. View slideshow of images above.
deltoid. 1. triangular. 2. the deltoid muscle. deltoid muscle. a lateral muscle of the shoulder, between the scapula and the humerus that helps flex the shoulder and abducts the arm. See also Table 13.
In human anatomy, the deltoid muscle is the muscle forming the rounded contour of the shoulder. It is also known as the common shoulder muscle, particularly in other animals such as the domestic cat. Deltoid is also further shortened in slang as  delt . A study of 30 shoulders revealed an average mass of 191.9 grams (6.77 oz) (range 84 grams (3.0 oz)–366 grams (12.9 oz)) in humans.
The shoulder joint also known as the glenohumeral joint, is the major joint of the shoulder, but can more broadly include the acromioclavicular joint. In human anatomy, the shoulder joint comprises the part of the body where the humerus attaches to the scapula, the head sitting in the glenoid cavity. The human shoulder is made up of three bones: the clavicle (collarbone), the scapula (shoulder blade), and the humerus (upper arm bone) as well as associated muscles, ligaments and tendons. The articulations between the bones of the shoulder make up the shoulder joints.
The deltoid muscle is a large muscle that encompasses the shoulder joint. The deltoid is divided into three different portions, or heads, the anterior (front), middle, and posterior (back) portions of the deltoid. 