Kayden Name Meaning. The meaning of the name Kayden is not yet available. (Please contact us to suggest a name meaning) Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Facebook Twitter Google+ Email. You can rustle up an Irish origin for Caden, but this name's popularity is about pure sound. You simply cannot get a more fashionable set of phonemes, and the nickname Cade is a winner too. But an entire classroom of rhyming boys is a real risk here. Caden, meet Hayden, Aidan, Jadon, and Braeden.... 
The first thing you should know if you are considering Kayden for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Kayden is a boy name. The name Kayden is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. The meaning of the name Kayden is not yet available. (Please contact us to suggest a name meaning) Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
As a baby boy name, Kayden is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 356 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) . In 2009, the name Kayden rose in popularity, moving up the USA Top 1000 charts in Year 2009, by 14 places. For the Year 2009, it ranked 138 in the Top 1000 charts. 
What does Kayden mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kayden is of English origin. The meaning of Kayden is spirited. It is also of Arabic origin, where its meaning is companion. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Kayden is an unusual first name for men but a somewhat prominent last name for all people (#91404 out of 150436, Top 61%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Kayden for boys. Kayden entered the list in 1999 and reached its peak rank of #90 in the U.S. in 2014. Kayden's name origins are Old English, Old French and Arabic, and the name Kayden means round, gentle; cask; companion. Kayden is a variant transcription of Cade (Old English, Old French): transferred use of the surname. Kayden is also a form of Kaden (Arabic). Kreatif forms: Kaydenney, Keden.
[ 2 syll. kay-den, ka-yd-en ] The baby boy name Kayden is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is K EY-DehN †. Kayden is largely used in the English language, and its origin is Celtic and Arabic. Kayden is a variant of the name Caden (English). Kayden is also a variant of the name Kadin (English and Arabic). Kayden is a popular baby name for boys, and it is also considered trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1990s; before that, it was of very light use only. At the modest peak of its usage in 2012, 0.190% of baby boys were given the name Kayden. It ranked at #99 then
Incoming search terms: kayden name meaning, kayden meaning, meaning of kayden, meaning of the name kayden, what does kayden mean. Meaning of KAYDEN name, name definition, origin of KAYDEN name, Popularity of name, analysis, gender of KAYDEN, Acrostic Poem, other details; Advertisement. According to some researches that is related to meaning of KAYDEN, Origin of KAYDEN and Gender of KAYDEN ,KAYDEN is fit name.You can give to your baby with complacency.
Kayden is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kay-den. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 712 in baby name popularity for girls with 391 occurrences. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Kayden /kay-den/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. Kayden's name origins are Old English, Old French and Arabic, and the name Kayden means round, gentle; cask; companion. Kayden is a variant transcription of Cade (Old English, Old French): transferred use of the surname. Kayden is also a form of Kaden (Arabic). Kreatif forms: Kaydenney, Keden.