Click on a circle in the chart to view Vangelis immigration records. You can find out when most of the Vangelis families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Vangelis birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
In 1983 Vangelis wrote the music for Michael Cacoyannis ' staging of the Greek tragedy Elektra which was performed with Irene Papas at the open-air amphitheater at Epidavros in Greece. The same year Vangelis composed his first score for a ballet by Wayne Eagling. During 1980, six years after Vangelis decided against joining Yes, he and Jon Anderson, the lead singer of Yes, released their first album together, Short Stories, under the band name of Jon & Vangelis.
Vangelis /van-ge-lis/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name. Vangelis' root is Greek, and the name Vangelis means good news. Vangelis is an alternate spelling of Evangel (Greek): masculine variation of Evangeline. Vangel is a familiar last name. Vangelis is an unusual given name for males. Vangelis is an equally uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Vangelis for boys. Vangelis has not made it into the list so far.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Vangelis in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Vangelis in Nautical Flags page. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Vangelis Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Vangelis has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Vangelis to other names. Vangelis is a variant spelling of Evangelos
You can find out where the majority of the Vangelis families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Vangelis birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
Origin of the name Jon: Derived from the Middle Latin Johannes, which is from the Ecclesiastic Late Latin Joannes, which is from the Greek Iōannes. Iōannes is Derived from the Hebrew Yonatan, a short form of Yehonatan which is derived from yehōnātān (Yahweh has given). The name is borne in the Bible by the eldest son of King Saul. Var: Jonothan, Jonothon. Short: Jon. Pet: Jonnie, Jonny.