Avoid moralism. Moralism is simply doing what is good for goodness sake. An atheist can do that; but for those who claim to be Christians, our purpose is not our own glory. The meaning of our lives is to bring glory to God (Isa. 43:7). Unbelievers do not know God. If the ultimate goal in life is to bring glory to God, then we can do that by being the best at what we do in the various callings of life. So, as the Bible says,  . . . whatever you do, do all to the glory of God, (1 Cor.
According to the Bible, our purpose, the reason we are here, is for God's glory. In other words, our purpose is to praise God, worship Him, to proclaim His greatness, and to accomplish His will. This is what glorifies Him. If the ultimate goal in life is to bring glory to God, then we can do that by being the best at what we do in the various callings of life. So, as the Bible says,  . . . whatever you do, do all to the glory of God, (1 Cor.
Access Your Reports. LexisNexis Risk Solutions is a leader in providing essential information that helps customers across industries and government predict, assess and manage risk. Combining cutting-edge technology, unique data and advanced scoring analytics, we provide products and services that address evolving needs in the risk sector. Much of the data held by LexisNexis has been collected from public record and publicly-available data sources. We also use proprietary data and information from third-party data sources in compiling our information products. LexisNexis is committed to the responsible use of sensitive consumer information.
LexisNexis® is a leading global provider of content-enabled workflow solutions designed specifically for professionals in the legal, risk management, corporate, government, law enforcement, accounting, and academic markets. LexisNexis is part of RELX Group and serves customers in more than 100 countries with more than 15,000 employees worldwide. Through the integration of information and technology, LexisNexis uniquely unites proprietary brands, advanced Web technologies and premium information sources.
serve a purpose. Also, serve one's or the purpose. Be useful, meet the needs or requirements, satisfy, as in I don't know why they've added all this information but it probably serves a purpose, or It often serves his purpose to be vague, or We don't have a spading fork but this shovel should serve the purpose.
LexisNexis Group is a corporation providing computer-assisted legal research as well as business research and risk management services. During the 1970s, LexisNexis pioneered the electronic accessibility of legal and journalistic documents. In 2000, LexisNexis purchased RiskWise, a St. Cloud, Minnesota company. In 2002 it acquired a Canadian research database company, Quicklaw. In 2004, Reed Elsevier Group, parent company of LexisNexis, purchased Seisint, Inc, of Boca Raton, Florida.
What is the spleen and what purpose does it serve? Why do some people need it removed? Dr. Bob explains. For more health tips visit www.drbobshow.com. 1  Education. 
Risk Solutions. For companies and government agencies seeking data analytics supporting compliance, customer acquisition, fraud detection, health outcomes, identity solutions, investigation, receivables management, risk decisioning and workflow optimization. 
Full File Disclosure Request Form and Instructions. Once we have verified your identity, all information will be mailed to the address you provide on the request form. We will also include contact information in case you have questions about the information or feel there is an error in any of the reports. 