The band is accused of plagiarism. Everyone who knows rock 'n' roll knows the opening riff to Led Zeppelin's 1971 hit Stairway to Heaven.. Play it side-by-side with the 1968 song Taurus by the band Spirit, and they sound almost the same. Rock aficionados will tell you that Led Zeppelin stealing Stairway to Heaven is old news. After all, it's been 43 years since the band released the song.
Stairway to Heaven isn't the greatest rock song of the 1970s; it is the greatest spell of the 1970s. Think about it: we are all sick of the thing, but in some primordial way it is still number one. I'd break out in hives if I had to sing (Stairway to Heaven) in every show. I wrote those lyrics and found that song to be of some importance and consequence in 1971, but 17 years later, I don't know. It's just not for me.
The song was written by Jimmy Page and Robert Plant and released on the Zeppelin Four album. However the original intro to the song was written by Spirit in 1967. The song toured with Led Zeppelin for a short period before they ultimately fizzled out and Zeppelin became the band that all rock bands are compared, to this day. I believe Plant and Page had authorization to use the intro and were obviously heavily influenced by Spirit as well as several old Blues singers.
Stairway to Heaven is a song by the English rock band Led Zeppelin. It was composed by guitarist Jimmy Page and vocalist Robert Plant for the band's fourth studio album, Led Zeppelin IV. It is the most requested and most played song on FM radio stations in the United States, despite never having been released as a single there.
The performance of Stairway to Heaven began with Ann and Nancy Wilson of Heart performing the song with a backing band, which included Jason Bonham on drums. He is the son of Led Zeppelin drummer John Bonham, who passed away in 1980. On Dec. 26 the 2012 Kennedy Center Honors was aired on national television for the first time on CBS. During the event, which took place at the Kennedy Center Opera House, Ann Wilson and Nancy Wilson of Heart performed Led Zeppelin's Stairway to Heaven with
The recording of Stairway to Heaven commenced in December 1970 at Island Records ' new Basing Street Studios in London. The song was completed by the addition of lyrics by Plant during the sessions for Led Zeppelin IV at Headley Grange, Hampshire, in 1971. I'd break out in hives if I had to sing (Stairway to Heaven) in every show. I wrote those lyrics and found that song to be of some importance and consequence in 1971, but 17 years later, I don't know. It's just not for me.
Neil Sedaka sang Stairway to heaven in 1960 (see related links below)    This is not to be confused with the Led Zeppelin song written by Jimmy Page/Robert Plant Thei … r song was sung in 1971 on their Led Zeppelin IV album. (November 8, 1971 (Atlantic Records #19129). 9 people found this useful. The song toured with Led Zeppelin for a short period before they ultimately fizzled out and Zeppelin became the band that all rock bands are compared, to this day. I believe Plant and Page had authorization to use the intro and were obviously heavily influenced by Spirit as well as several old Blues singers.
1977: Rock group Led Zeppelin performing on stage. From left to right: Jimmy Page, Robert Plant and John Bonham (1947 - 1980). (Photo by Hulton Archive/Getty Images). “Stairway to Heaven” has been a staple of rock radio for decades, and still gets regular airplay here at WZLX and all over the world. It’s arguably the biggest rock song in history.
Jason Bonham loved the fact that Led Zeppelin didn't know he'd be drumming on Stairway To Heaven at their Kennedy Center tribute night, hosted by US President Barack Obama. Bonham performed with Heart and an all-star band -- and the first Plant, Page and Jones knew of it was when they saw him walk on stage. On Dec. 26 the 2012 Kennedy Center Honors was aired on national television for the first time on CBS. During the event, which took place at the Kennedy Center Opera House, Ann Wilson and Nancy Wilson of Heart performed Led Zeppelin's Stairway to Heaven with Jason Bonham on drums.
Stairway to Heaven  is a song by the English rock band Led Zeppelin, released in late 1971. It was composed by guitarist Jimmy Page and vocalist Robert Plant for the band's untitled fourth studio album (often called Led Zeppelin IV). It is often referred to as one of the greatest rock songs of all time. I'd break out in hives if I had to sing (Stairway to Heaven) in every show. I wrote those lyrics and found that song to be of some importance and consequence in 1971, but 17 years later, I don't know. It's just not for me.