BBC News considers how it became one of the UK capital's major symbols. The London Eye is one of the UK's most popular tourist landmarks The London Eye is the largest, and arguably the most famous, observation wheel in the world. At 135 metres, the Eye-which is based on the South Bank-is 30 metres higher than the wheel at Yokohama Bay in Japan, which had been the tallest. 
1 The London Eye offers the best views over the city. 2  As I said before, it is 135 meters tall, which allows its passengers to admire the city about 25 miles away. 3  For example, in a sunny day, with no clouds, you will be able to see the Windsor Castle. Now, let’s see the most interesting 10 facts about the London Eye: 1  The London Eye offers the best views over the city. 2  As I said before, it is 135 meters tall, which allows its passengers to admire the city about 25 miles away. 3  For example, in a sunny day, with no clouds, you will be able to see the Windsor Castle.
The Eye has done for London what the Eiffel Tower did for Paris, which is to give it a symbol and to let people climb above the city and look back down on it. Not just specialists or rich people, but everybody. Also known as the Millennium Wheel, its official name was originally published as the British Airways London Eye, then the Merlin Entertainments London Eye, then the EDF Energy London Eye. Since mid-January 2015, it has been known in branding as the Coca-Cola London Eye, following an agreement signed in September 2014.
At 135 metres, the Coca-Cola London Eye is the world's tallest cantilevered observation wheel; a feat of design and engineering, it has become the modern symbol representing the capital and a global icon. Book tickets online for the Coca-Cola London Eye with our best price guarantee, and see 55 of London's most famous landmarks in just 30 minutes!Read More.
A predecessor to the London Eye, the Great Wheel, was built for the Empire of India Exhibition at Earls Court and opened to the public on 17 July 1895. Modelled on the original Chicago Ferris Wheel, it was 94 metres (308 ft) tall and 82.3 metres (270 ft) in diameter. Also known as the Millennium Wheel, its official name was originally published as the British Airways London Eye, then the Merlin Entertainments London Eye, then the EDF Energy London Eye. Since mid-January 2015, it has been known in branding as the Coca-Cola London Eye, following an agreement signed in September 2014.
The London Eye is an extremely large Ferris wheel which is located in London, England. The structure is 443 feet tall and 294 feet wide. All London tourists should make time to go for a ride on the Eye. This Ferris wheel is a famous attraction around the world. In fact, many people will ask tourists whether or not they went
The London Eye is a giant Ferris wheel on the South Bank of the River Thames in London. Also known as the Millennium Wheel, its official name was originally published as the British Airways London Eye, then the Merlin Entertainments London Eye, then the EDF Energy London Eye. Since mid-January 2015, it has been known in branding as the Coca-Cola London Eye, following an agreement signed in September 2014.
The London Eye is on the symbols of the Britain’s capital, and it is a must to visit it during your stay in London. The giant Ferris wheel can be admired on the south side of the Thames River, close to the famous Big Ben. The wheel is also known as the Millennium Wheel. The London eye is 135 meters tall, and it has a diameter of 120 meters. When it was built, in 1999, it was the tallest Ferris wheel in the world. Now, let’s see the most interesting 10 facts about the London Eye: 1  The London Eye offers the best views over the city. 2  As I said before, it is 135 meters tall, which allows its passengers to admire the city about 25 miles away. 3  For example, in a sunny day, with no clouds, you will be able to see the Windsor Castle.
More Tickets & Tours. A modern but already very popular tourist attraction is the London Eye, a giant observation wheel located in the Jubilee Gardens on the South Bank. The 135 meter (443ft) tall structure was built as part of London's millennium celebrations. 