Confidence votes 149. The United States is a federal republic, and operates under a form of representative democracy whereby people are elected to represent the will of their respective home regions (rather than a direct democracy where decisions are put to a vote of the citizenry). The United States is often called a representative democracy, and a democratic republic. The United States is certainly not a pure democracy.
Democracy. The United States has had the same type of government for more than 200 years. It’s called a “representative democracy.” Among the nations of the world, it is unusual for a system of government to last so long. 
The United States is, indeed, a republic, not a democracy. Accurately defined, a democracy is a form of government in which the people decide policy matters directly--through town hall meetings or by voting on ballot initiatives and referendums. By popular usage, however, the word democracy come to mean a form of government in which the government derives its power from the people and is accountable to them for the use of that power. In this sense the United States might accurately be called a democracy.
But there is no basis for saying that the United States is somehow “not a democracy, but a republic.” “Democracy” and “republic” aren’t just words that a speaker can arbitrarily define to mean something (e.g., defining democracy as “a form of government in which all laws are made directly by the people”). A common definition of “democracy” is, “Government by the people, exercised either directly or through elected representatives” — we are that, too. The United States is not a direct democracy, in the sense of a country in which laws (and other government decisions) are made predominantly by majority vote. Some lawmaking is done this way, on the state and local levels, but it’s only a tiny fraction of all lawmaking
The United States is a democracy, but not a direct one (Myth). Although each branch of government derives its power from majority rule or approval-executive, legislative, judicial, and monetary-the people do not vote for them directly. America, then, is not truly a democracy, but is a republic. A republic is a representative democracy, and laws are passed not by the people themselves but by their elected representatives. In this republic, the people vote for their Senators and Representatives, who, in turn, vote on the laws (Myth). The people vote on a slate of electors, who then vote for the president.
As a Constitutional Republic, the United States have a constitution and laws that puts checks and balances in place so that certain minorities are protected from the tyranny of the majority. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democracy#.... The United States, according to a strict textbook definition, is a REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY. In a representative democracy, we elect officials to pass and deliberate on legislation on our behalf.
Democracy, or democratic government, is a system of government in which all the people of a state or polity ... are involved in making decisions about its affairs, typically by voting to elect representatives to a parliament or similar assembly, as defined by the Oxford English Dictionary. An important justification for this kind of system is that the decisions made in national or regional democracies often affect people outside the constituency who, by definition, cannot vote. By contrast, in a cosmopolitan democracy, the people who are affected by decisions also have a say in them.
The United States is a hybrid Representative Democracy and Constitutional Republic. It is not a direct democracy. As a Representative Democracy, the United States has elected officials (Senators, Congressmen, President, etc.,) who represent the people. The United States, according to a strict textbook definition, is a REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY. In a representative democracy, we elect officials to pass and deliberate on legislation on our behalf.