gymkhana. Form of racing in Japan similar to an autocross course except with incredibly close angle turns set very close to each other and the course doubles over on itself several times. Coilover springrates for Gymkhana cars are typically twice as hard as brand name race coilovers like JIC FLTA2-RS's or tein RA
Definition of GYMKHANA. : a meet featuring sports contests or athletic skills: as a: competitive games on horseback b: a timed contest for automobiles featuring a series of events designed to test driving skill. ADVERTISEMENT
• GYMKHANA (noun). The noun GYMKHANA has 1 sense: 1. a meet at which riders and horses display a range of skills and aptitudes. Familiarity information: GYMKHANA used as a noun is very rare. 
In parts of the western United States, this type of competition is usually called an . O-Mok-See  (also spelled O Mok See or Omoksee) competition, a term derived from a Native American phrase meaning games on horseback.. However, the term gymkhana is used in California. Gymkhana and O-Mok-See classes include timed speed events such as barrel racing, keyhole race, keg race (also known as down and back), flag race, and pole bending.
1 An equestrian day event comprising races and other competitions on horseback, typically for children. Example sentences. 1  Mr Stephens said the money would also be used to provide new outreach services to isolated station people and community events such as local race meetings, gymkhanas and festivals. 
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of gymkhana from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning.
Gymkhana is a term used in the United Kingdom, east coast of the United States, and other English-speaking nations to describe an equestrian event consisting of speed pattern racing and timed games for riders on horses. However, the term gymkhana is used in California. Gymkhana and O-Mok-See classes include timed speed events such as barrel racing, keyhole race, keg race (also known as down and back), flag race, and pole bending.
› an ​event at which ​people ​ride ​horses, taking ​part in ​various competitions ​involving ​horse ​racing and ​jumping over ​special ​fences. (Definition of gymkhana from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). The answer may seem obvious, but the use of this word can lead to confusion. In the UK and Ireland the word traditionally meant the number 1,000,000,000,000 (a million millions), which is called a trillion in the United States. A billion in the United States is considerably.
The meaning then altered to denote a place where skill-based contests were held. Gymkhana is an Anglo-Indian expression, which is derived from the Persian word  Jamat-khana . Most gymkhanas have a Gymkhana Club associated with them, a term coined during British Raj for gentlemen's club. In India, the term gymkhana is commonly used to refer to a gymnasium. The plot of the children's story  The Mystery of the Invisible Thief  by Enid Blyton begins at a gymkhana held at an English village, testifying to its being a common institution in English society at the time of writing (the 1940s).
Gymkhana is an Indian term which originally referred to a place of assembly. The meaning then altered to denote a place where skill-based contests were held. Gymkhana is an Anglo-Indian expression, which is derived from the Hindi-Urdu word Jamat-khana. Most gymkhanas have a Gymkhana Club associated with them, a term coined during British Raj for gentlemen's club. In India, the term gymkhana is commonly used to refer to a gymnasium