Dominion. 95 pages on this wiki. Based on characters from the 2010 theatrical film Legion, Dominion is an epic supernatural action drama set 25 years after the events of the movie. It picks up in the aftermath of a catastrophic war between an army of angels and mankind that has transformed the world.
Dominion Logo. Dominion (or League of Legends: Dominion) is a game mode in League of Legends. Champions battle in a 5v5 format on a map called the Crystal Scar. Players were able to play Dominion in a nearly complete state at GamesCom (August 17–21, 2011) in Europe and at PAX Prime (August 26–28, 2011) in North America
2.1 (Dominion) historical Each of the self-governing territories of the British Commonwealth: Great Britain, together with her Dominions and Colonies. More example sentences. 1  In 1907, New Zealand was made a Dominion of Great Britain. 2  The British North America Act created the Dominion of Canada by 1867. 
Gameplay. Dominion is a capture-and-hold game mode where two teams of five players compete on the Crystal Scar Field of Justice to destroy the enemy nexus. The nexus is untargetable and has 500 life points. Dominion (or League of Legends: Dominion) is a game mode in League of Legends. Champions battle in a 5v5 format on a map called the Crystal Scar. Players were able to play Dominion in a nearly complete state at GamesCom (August 17–21, 2011) in Europe and at PAX Prime (August 26–28, 2011) in North America
Dominion. Perfect control in right of ownership. The word implies both title and possession and appears to require a complete retention of control over disposition. Title to an article of property, which arises from the power of disposition and the right of claiming it. 1-18) I will sing of stately Aphrodite, gold-crowned and beautiful, whose dominion is the walled cities of all sea-set Cyprus. Collection Of Hesiod, Homer and Homerica by Homer View in context.
Stay Connected. Signup today to receive special offers, savings on admission tickets, park updates, and more! By clicking this box, you are opting in to receive our Newsletter, and from time to time, marketing promotion from us that we think may be of interest to you. 
dominion. 1. The right and power to command, decide, rule, or judge: authority, command, control, domination, jurisdiction, mastery, might, power, prerogative, sovereignty, sway. Informal: say-so. 2. The fact of possessing or the legal right to possess something: ownership, possession, proprietorship, title. 3. 
by Matt Slick. The dominion mandate is the command of God to Adam, and thus to all mankind, to take dominion over all the earth. It is found in the Book of Genesis. 