3. Pleiotropy (or pliotropy) is the phenomenon in which a single gene conditions several different phenotypical traits. Some phenotypical traits may be sensitive to the pleiotropic effects (for example, inhibition) of other genes, even when conditioned by a pair of alleles in simple dominance. A mixture of pleiotropy and gene interaction is characteristic of these cases. 1  Non-Mendelian Inheritance-Image Diversity: pleiotropy.
The antagonistic pleiotropy hypothesis was first proposed by George C. Williams in 1957 as an evolutionary explanation for senescence. Pleiotropy is the phenomenon where one gene controls for more than one phenotypic trait in an organism. Antagonistic pleiotropy is when one gene controls for more than one trait where at least one of these traits is beneficial to the organism's fitness and at least one is detrimental to the organism's fitness. The theme of G.C. 
Pleiotropy refers to the phenomenon in which a single gene controls several distinct, and seemingly unrelated, phenotypic effects. A classic example of pleiotropy is the human disease PKU (phenylketonuria). 
The term “polygenic inheritance” is used to refer to the inheritance of quantitative traits, traits which are influenced by multiple genes, not just one. In addition to involving multiple genes, polygenic inheritance also looks at the role of environment in someone's development. For example, sickle cell anemia is a form of pleiotropy, caused by a distinctive mutation in one gene which leads to a host of symptoms. In addition to causing mutations, pleiotropy also occurs in perfectly normal genes, although researchers tend to use it to track and understand mutations in particular.
Genes that affect multiple, apparently unrelated, phenotypes are thus called pleiotropic genes (Figure 1). Pleiotropy should not be confused with polygenic traits, in which multiple genes converge to result in a single phenotype. In some instances of pleiotropy, the influence of the single gene may be direct. For example, if a mouse is born blind due to any number of single-gene traits (Chang et al. , 2002), it is not surprising that this mouse would also do poorly in visual learning tasks.
Figure 1: Diagram of pleiotropy. A pleiotropic gene is a single gene that controls more than one trait. © 2008 Nature Education All rights reserved. Today, we know that Mendel's observations were the result of pleiotropy, or the phenomenon in which a single gene contributes to multiple phenotypic traits. In some instances of pleiotropy, the influence of the single gene may be direct. For example, if a mouse is born blind due to any number of single-gene traits (Chang et al. , 2002), it is not surprising that this mouse would also do poorly in visual learning tasks.
Pleiotropy describes the genetic effect of a single gene on multiple phenotypic traits. The underlying mechanism is that the gene codes for a product that is, for example, used by various cells, or has a signaling function on various targets. A classic example of pleiotropy is the human disease phenylketonuria (PKU). Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2013). Pleiotropy occurs when one gene influences two or more seemingly unrelated phenotypic traits, an example being phenylketonuria, which is a human disease that affects multiple systems but is caused by one gene defect. Consequently, a mutation in a pleiotropic gene may have an effect on some or all traits simultaneously
Pleiotropic: Producing or having multiple effects from a single gene. For example, the Marfan gene is pleiotropic, potentially causing such diverse effects as long fingers and toes (arachnodactyly), dislocation of the lens of the eye, and dissecting aneurysm of the aorta. 
Best Answer: Pleiotropy refers to the phenomenon in which a single gene controls several distinct, and seemingly unrelated, phenotypic effects. A classic example of pleiotropy is the human disease PKU (phenylketonuria). The term pleiotropy comes from the Greek pleio, meaning many, and trepein, meaning influencing. A common mistake is to use pleiotrophic instead of pleiotropic..sickle cell anemia is an example of pleiotropy. boyzmadison · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. Submit.