The astronauts were Eugene A. Cernan, Harrison H. Schmitt, and Ronald E. Evans. The actual last landin … g on the Moon to date was on December 11, 1972, and Cernan and Schmitt were on the lunar surface for three days. Gene Cernan was the last man to walk on the moon, on December 14, 1972. 11th December 1972, lift off from the moon 14th December 1972 on Appolo 17, the lander was Challenger. The landing site was Taurus-Littrow Valley and the crew was Eugene Cerna … n and Harrison Schmitt. As Eugene was the first out, Harrison was the LAST man to arrive on the moon, but Eugene was the last man to leave.
On Apollo 17, Cernan became the eleventh person to walk on the Moon and the last man on the Moon since he was the last to re-enter the Lunar Module Challenger after the mission's third and final extravehicular activity (EVA). Cernan's distinction as the last person to walk on the Moon means that Purdue University currently holds the distinction of being the alma mater of both the first person to walk on the Moon (Neil Armstrong), and the last.
The first man to land his feet on the moon, was the American astronaut Neil Armstrong, they landed on the moon in the Apollo 11 on 20/7/1969. And they returned safely to earth … on the 24/7/1969.. But the first man to to go to the moon was Apollo 8 astronauts Frank Borman, James Lovell and William Anders. 11th December 1972, lift off from the moon 14th December 1972 on Appolo 17, the lander was Challenger. The landing site was Taurus-Littrow Valley and the crew was Eugene Cerna … n and Harrison Schmitt. As Eugene was the first out, Harrison was the LAST man to arrive on the moon, but Eugene was the last man to leave.
The actual last landing … on the Moon to date was on December 11, 1972, and Cernan and Schmitt were on the lunar surface for three days. Gene Cernan was the last man to walk on the moon, on December 14, 1972. 11th December 1972, lift off from the moon 14th December 1972 on Appolo 17, the lander was Challenger. The landing site was Taurus-Littrow Valley and the crew was Eugene Cerna … n and Harrison Schmitt. As Eugene was the first out, Harrison was the LAST man to arrive on the moon, but Eugene was the last man to leave.
Cernan next flew into space on Apollo 10 in 1969. In the lunar module Snoopy, he and Tom Stafford skimmed within eight nautical miles on the moon to simulate a lunar landing. All went smoothly until Snoopy was preparing to head back to Charlie Brown. Cernan was eager to walk on the moon on Apollo 17, his next assignment; his previous mission had come so close. This time, he was ready to bring his spacecraft all the way – on pilot's terms, of course.
Apollo astronaut Alan Bean was the fourth man to walk on the moon, during the Apollo 12 mission in 1969. He was the lunar module pilot. Bean was also the commander of the Skylab Mission II in 1973, which spent 59 days in flight. Altogether, Bean logged 1,671 hours and 45 minutes in space. 
Eugene Cernan was the last man to walk on the moon. He visited the moon's neighborhood twice, aboard Apollo 10 and Apollo 17, and also did a challenging spacewalk aboard Gemini 9. Cernan was eager to walk on the moon on Apollo 17, his next assignment; his previous mission had come so close. This time, he was ready to bring his spacecraft all the way – on pilot's terms, of course.
Mission commander Eugene Cernan was the last person to leave the Moon's surface. The crew return … ed safely to Earth on December 19, 1972.   It was the first night launch of a U.S. human spaceflight and the sixth and final lunar landing mission of the Apollo program. The Lunar Module pilot, Edwin Buzz Aldrin, was the … second person to walk on the moon.   Apollo 12 was the second ship to land on the moon. Commander Charles Conrad, Jr. and Lunar Module pilot Alan LaVerne Bean were the next two
In total twelve people have walked on the Moon. Besides Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin – who were the first two astronauts to leave their bootprints on the Moon — there were also Pete Conrad, Alan Bean, Alan Shepard, Edgar Mitchell, David Scott, James Irwin, John Young, Charles Duke, Eugene Cernan, and Harrison Schmitt. Credit: NASA. The final people to walk on the Moon were Eugene (Gene) Cernan and Harrison (Jack) Schmitt. They launched of the first night-time liftoff of the Saturn V rocket, and the astronauts of Apollo 17 landed on the Moon on December 11, 1972.