The first thing you're going to want to do is take the steak out of the fridge and let it sit out at room temperature for 20-30 minutes. At this point you can also pre-heat your grill, and trim any excess fat from the steaks. But don't trim it all off. Leave about ¼ inch of fat all the way around. Cooking steaks involves more than just taking the meat out of the fridge and slapping it on the grill. You could do that, but if you want to enjoy the perfect steak, you'll get better results if you understand a few basic guidelines for how to prep your steaks for
Actually, you don't need to put it out of the fridge before cooking. There is really only a very small difference in temperature after two hours, and this is negligible in the cooking process. On the other hand, when and how you salt does make a difference in the quality. The best options are to salt at least 40 minutes before cooking, or right at the time of cooking. The reason is that if you salt 40 minutes ahead, the salt dissolves, and then the juices are reabsorbed. With less time, there is not time for reabsorption, so you would be better off waiting until the time of the cooking
Usually cooked at 225°F these meats can take 8 to 12 hours and starting at room temp saves only about 20 to 30 minutes. The reverse sear theory is not a factor because it is cooked so long that the temp is uniform from top to bottom. Thick cuts cooked to 130 to 165°F. A thick piece of meat like a prime rib (say 6 thick), pork loin (4) to be served in the relatively low temp 130-165°F range does slightly benefit if you could safely warm it to room temp before cooking.
So I let it go longer. 30 minutes. 50 minutes. 1 hour and 20 minutes. After 1 hour and 50 minutes, the steak was up to 49.6°F in the center. Still colder than the cold water comes out of my tap in the summer, and only about 13% closer to its target temperature of a medium-rare 130°F than the steak in the fridge. The Theory: You want your meat to cook evenly from edge to center. Therefore, the closer it is to its final eating temperature, the more evenly it will cook. Letting it sit on the counter for 20 to 30 minutes will bring the steak up to room temperature—a good 20 to 25°F closer to your final serving temperature.
· just now. Report Abuse. Get it out of the fridge about 60 mins before you're due to cook it, then after 30 mins, take it out of the package, get a steak mallet (or just a blunt object) season it with salt and pepper, then hammer it, but not too aggressively, as all your trying to do is make it more tender. 
By Meathead Goldwyn. A lot of recipes, especially those for big roasts, say that you should take the meat out of the fridge an hour or two before cooking and let it come up to room temp.. Here's the theory: Say you want a steak to be served medium rare, about 130°F. If your fridge is 38°F, then the meat must climb 92°F. Thick cuts cooked to 130 to 165°F. A thick piece of meat like a prime rib (say 6 thick), pork loin (4) to be served in the relatively low temp 130-165°F range does slightly benefit if you could safely warm it to room temp before cooking.
Sealed, pre-packed fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping the raw, fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. How long can I store ham or other smoked products in the refrigerator? Whole smoked ham and whole ham slices can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days or the use by date on the label.
I usually take it out of the refrigerator an hour prior to cooking and salt 30 minutes prior to cooking. I think I heard these numbers from a Good Eats episode, but I could be totally mistaken on where I picked up this habit. On the other hand, when and how you salt does make a difference in the quality. The best options are to salt at least 40 minutes before cooking, or right at the time of cooking. The reason is that if you salt 40 minutes ahead, the salt dissolves, and then the juices are reabsorbed. With less time, there is not time for reabsorption, so you would be better off waiting until the time of the cooking
Sealed, prepackaged, fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. 