Jeffrey P. Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the chief executive of Blue Origin, revealed plans to build a rocket manufacturing plant and use a launch site in Florida. In the past, Blue Origin, based in Kent, Wash., south of Seattle, has sometimes waited days or months to mention successes or failures, with Mr. Bezos providing brief updates on Blue Origin’s website.
In 2008 the publicized timetable stated that Blue Origin will fly unmanned in 2011, and manned in 2012. The first developmental test flight of the New Shepard was April 29, 2015. The uncrewed vehicle flew to its planned test altitude of more than 307,000 feet (93,500 meters) and achieved a top speed of Mach 3. Blue Origin has a development facility near Seattle, Washington and an operational launch facility in West Texas. Blue is developing a new orbital launch facility on East Coast in central Florida.
The secretive private spaceflight company Blue Origin founded by billionaire Amazon.com CEO Jeff Bezos has successfully test-fired a new engine for commercial rockets that may one day help launch astronauts and cargo into orbit, NASA officials said today (Dec. 3). Blue Origin test fires a powerful new hydrogen-and oxygen-fueled American rocket engine at the company's West Texas facility. Blue Origin's Orbital Launch Vehicle will use the BE-3 engine to propel the company's Space Vehicle into orbit. Credit: Blue Origin.
In January 2005, Bezos told the editor of the Van Horn Advocate that Blue Origin is developing a sub-orbital space vehicle that will take off and land vertically and carry three or more astronauts to the edge of space. Blue Origin has a development facility near Seattle, Washington and an operational launch facility in West Texas. Blue is developing a new orbital launch facility on East Coast in central Florida.
The company motto is Gradatim Ferociter, Latin for Step-by-Step, Ferociously. Blue Origin is developing a variety of technologies, with a focus on rocket-powered Vertical Takeoff and Vertical Landing (VTVL) vehicles for access to suborbital and orbital space. Blue Origin has a development facility near Seattle, Washington and an operational launch facility in West Texas. Blue is developing a new orbital launch facility on East Coast in central Florida.
Blue Origin, a secretive rocket company started by Jeffrey P. Bezos, the chief executive of Amazon, made a splashy public announcement on Tuesday, saying it will build rockets and send them into orbit from Florida. In the past, Blue Origin, based in Kent, Wash., south of Seattle, has sometimes waited days or months to mention successes or failures, with Mr. Bezos providing brief updates on Blue Origin’s website.
by Elizabeth Howell, Space.com Contributor | January 18, 2013 05:44pm ET. Jeff Bezos is an Internet entrepreneur who is also the founder of Blue Origin, a somewhat secretive space company that is working on a suborbital crew capsule. Blue Origin is conducting tests under NASA's Commercial Crew Program (CCP), which is intended to bring new private American crewed vehicles into space. In 2000 – shortly after Bezos was named Time's Person of the Year for his work on the Internet – Bezos turned his attention to space. He quietly founded a company called Blue Origin, which would develop a vertical-takeoff, vertical-landing rocket ship that could pop passengers into suborbital space.
Blue Origin is an American privately-funded aerospace developer and manufacturer set up by Amazon.com founder Jeff Bezos. The company is developing technologies to enable private human access to space with the goal of dramatically lower cost and increased reliability. Blue Origin has a development facility near Seattle, Washington and an operational launch facility in West Texas. Blue is developing a new orbital launch facility on East Coast in central Florida.
Credit: Blue Origin. View full size image. Bezos made his fortune as the founder and CEO of Amazon, a company that greatly contributed to the establishment of electronic commerce (e-commerce) as a viable business model. In 2000 – shortly after Bezos was named Time's Person of the Year for his work on the Internet – Bezos turned his attention to space. He quietly founded a company called Blue Origin, which would develop a vertical-takeoff, vertical-landing rocket ship that could pop passengers into suborbital space.
But Bezos is also making waves in the space field with his company, Blue Origin. Spaceflight in secret. In 2000 – shortly after Bezos was named Time's Person of the Year for his work on the Internet – Bezos turned his attention to space. He quietly founded a company called Blue Origin, which would develop a vertical-takeoff, vertical-landing rocket ship that could pop passengers into suborbital space.