The deltoids are broken into three groups: anterior, lateral and posterior. The anterior and lateral deltoids are used for the shoulder press. The anterior deltoid is the front of the shoulder, and helps raise the arms in front of the body and above the head. The lateral deltoid is the top and side of the shoulder, and helps lift the arms out and press weight above the head
The upper part of the deltoid muscle attaches to the lateral, or outermost, part of the clavicle and the spine of the scapula, which is a large ridge running across the shoulder blade. The lower part of the deltoid attaches to the deltoid tuberosity, which is a bony bump on the upper portion of the humerus. The deltoid is divided into three parts: anterior (front), middle and posterior (back). Each part moves the arm, but in different directions. The posterior part of the deltoid moves the arm in the opposite direction of the anterior deltoid. It extends and laterally rotates the arm. You extend your arm when you move it straight behind you, and you laterally rotate your arm when you turn the front of the arm bone away to the side.
In order to stretch the front deltoid muscle, you need to find a pole or a wall or a door frame. What I'm going to do is to use the wall here, put one hand on the wall and turn away from the wall, one hand parallel and then turn away from the wall... make sure your arm is parallel to the wall like such and turn. 
While the shoulder press focuses primarily on two portions of the deltoids, or shoulders, it also works a plethora of other muscles. Your trapezius, triceps and rotary cuff muscles all have to work in conjunction with your shoulders for this exercise to be done. The anterior and lateral deltoids are used for the shoulder press. The anterior deltoid is the front of the shoulder, and helps raise the arms in front of the body and above the head.
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. The deltoid is the large muscle that covers your shoulder joint. The muscle consists of three fiber groups: the anterior, lateral and posterior deltoids. The anterior deltoid, also known as the front delt, connects the collarbone to the humerus, the large bone of the upper arm. Internal Arm Rotation. The shoulders are the most flexible joints of your body. The ability to rotate your arms is one of the keys to the versatility of motion possible at the shoulder. Along with other muscles of the shoulder and chest, the anterior deltoids rotate the upper arm inward toward the body.
The deltoids are composed of 3 separate muscle heads. Not all heads of the deltoids are worked through the same motions. 1  Anterior Deltoid: This is on the front portion of your delts. 2  To get a feel for it, place your hand on the front of your delts and raise your arm up directly in front of you. 3  You should feel the anterior deltoid flexing. 1 Anterior Deltoid: This is on the front portion of your delts. 2  To get a feel for it, place your hand on the front of your delts and raise your arm up directly in front of you. 3  You should feel the anterior deltoid flexing. 4  Medial Deltoid: Located on the side of your delts
Deltoid. The deltoid muscle is located on the outer aspect of the shoulder and is recognized by its triangular shape. The deltoid muscle was named after the Greek letter Delta due to the similar shape they both share. The deltoid muscle is constructed with three main sets of fibers: anterior, middle, and posterior. 
Arm Flexion and Medial Rotation. The anterior part of the deltoid works with other shoulder and arm muscles to medially rotate and flex the arm. The arm rotates medially when you turn the front of the arm bone toward your body, and you flex your arm when you raise it up to the front of your body. The posterior part of the deltoid moves the arm in the opposite direction of the anterior deltoid. It extends and laterally rotates the arm. You extend your arm when you move it straight behind you, and you laterally rotate your arm when you turn the front of the arm bone away to the side.