Spoken language. Spoken language, sometimes called oral language, is language produced in its spontaneous form, as opposed to written language. Many languages have no written form, and so are only spoken. In spoken language, much of the meaning is determined by the context. This contrasts with written language, where more of the meaning is provided directly by the text.
Spoken language is a form of communication in which people uses the mouth to create recognizable sounds. These sounds come from a large vocabulary of sequences of sounds with agreed-upon meanings. These sequences of sounds are called words, and each represents one or more objects or concepts. Spoken language is a form of communication in which people use the mouth to create recognizable sounds. The Mosuo, an ethnic group who live in China's Yunnan province, have a spoken language but no written one. View slideshow of images above.
Number of speakers: 246 million. Arabic, one of the world’s oldest languages, is spoken in the Middle East, with speakers found in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, and Egypt. Furthermore, because Arabic is the language of the Koran, millions of Moslems in other countries speak Arabic as well. While English doesn’t have the most speakers, it is the official language of more countries than any other language. Its speakers hail from all around the world, including New Zealand, the U.S., Australia, England, Zimbabwe, the Caribbean, Hong Kong, South Africa, and Canada.
The term spoken language is sometimes used to mean only vocal languages, especially by linguists, making all three terms synonyms by excluding sign languages. Others refer to sign language as spoken, especially in contrast to written transcriptions of signs. In spoken language, much of the meaning is determined by the context. This contrasts with written language, where more of the meaning is provided directly by the text.
Number of speakers: 129 million. Often called the most romantic language in the world, French is spoken in tons of countries, including Belgium, Canada, Rwanda, Cameroon, and Haiti. Oh, and France too. While English doesn’t have the most speakers, it is the official language of more countries than any other language. Its speakers hail from all around the world, including New Zealand, the U.S., Australia, England, Zimbabwe, the Caribbean, Hong Kong, South Africa, and Canada.
orthoepy, pronunciation-the way a word or a language is customarily spoken; the pronunciation of Chinese is difficult for foreigners; that is the correct pronunciation. conversation-the use of speech for informal exchange of views or ideas or information etc. 1. spoken language - (language) communication by word of mouth; his speech was garbled; he uttered harsh language; he recorded the spoken language of the streets. oral communication, speech communication, spoken communication, voice communication, speech, language.
Spoken language, is language produced by articulate sounds, as opposed to written language. Many languages have no written form, and so are only spoken. Oral language or vocal language is language produced with the vocal tract, as opposed to sign language, which is produced with the hands and face. In spoken language, much of the meaning is determined by the context. This contrasts with written language, where more of the meaning is provided directly by the text.
The world's most widely spoken languages by number of native speakers and as a second language, according to figures from UNESCO (The United Nations’ Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), are: Mandarin Chinese, English, Spanish, Hindi, Arabic, Bengali, Russian, Portuguese, Japanese, German and French. 3. 