Natal astrology, also known as genethliacal astrology, is the system of astrology based on the concept that each individual's personality or path in life can be determined by constructing a natal chart for the exact date, time, and location of that individual's birth. In horoscopic astrology an individual's personality is determined by the construction of the horoscope or birth chart for the particular individual involved (known as the native), showing the positions of the sun, moon, planets, ascendant, midheaven, and the angles or aspects among them.
Noun. 1. astrology-a pseudoscience claiming divination by the positions of the planets and sun and moon. star divination. zodiac - (astrology) a circular diagram representing the 12 zodiacal constellations and showing their signs. horoscopy-the drawing up and interpretation of horoscopes. 1. (Astrology) the study of the motions and relative positions of the planets, sun, and moon, interpreted in terms of human characteristics and activities. 2. (Astronomy) the primitive study of celestial bodies, which formed the basis of astronomy.
Astrology's purpose is to use the positions of the planets and stars in the sky to gather information on the individual and on humanity. Astrology is a system that enables us to understand the past, present and the future within a universe full of meaning.— Joseph Crane. Souls entering the World. Astrology, the Science of the Stars. — Joseph Crane. Astrology literally means the Science of the Stars, from the Greek astrologia: astron (constellation; star) and logia (study of; ordering principle; utterance).
In Astrology each of the 10 planets rules a Zodiac Sign and a Zodiac House. The following is a brief interpretation for each planet. The Sun rules Leo and the 5th house. The Sun defines your personal identity, your ego and your unique self expression. 
In the West, astrology most often consists of a system of horoscopes purporting to explain aspects of a person's personality and predict future events in their life based on the positions of the sun, moon, and other celestial objects at the time of their birth. Western astrology is a form of divination based on the construction of a horoscope for an exact moment, such as a person's birth. It uses the tropical zodiac, which is aligned to the equinoctial points.
n. 1. (Astrology) the study of the motions and relative positions of the planets, sun, and moon, interpreted in terms of human characteristics and activities. 2. (Astronomy) the primitive study of celestial bodies, which formed the basis of astronomy.
In astrology, your personality is defined by your Sun sign. It is easy to determine – just look at your date of birth. The Sun moves around the zodiac over the course of the year and stops in each zodiac sign for a month along the way. Your Moon sign is the second most important placement, after the sun, in your astrology chart. The Moon rules your emotional nature and its location in the zodiac in your chart tells you plenty about yourself. Its location in your lover's chart may tell you too much about him!
Definition of ASTROLOGY for Kids. : the study of the supposed influences of the stars and planets on people's lives and behavior. : the study of how the positions of the stars and movements of the planets have a supposed influence on events and on the lives and behavior of people. 1.
A person who practices astrology is called an astrologer. A very ancient, but still vital discipline, astrology seeks the meaning and application of the influences of the planets, stars and other celestial phenomena in our lives. Astrology, the Science of the Stars. — Joseph Crane. Astrology literally means the Science of the Stars, from the Greek astrologia: astron (constellation; star) and logia (study of; ordering principle; utterance).
Astrology consists of several pseudoscientific systems of divination based on the premise that there is a relationship between astronomical phenomena and events in the human world. Western astrology is a form of divination based on the construction of a horoscope for an exact moment, such as a person's birth. It uses the tropical zodiac, which is aligned to the equinoctial points.