Polymorphism is related to inheritance in that derived objects are a kind of base class, and can therefore be treated as such. Virtual methods in the base class permit a generic interface to be overridden by the derived class such that the most-derived implementation is called even when referring to the base class. They are three of the four pillars of object-oriented programming. The fourth is abstraction. Encapsulation describes the way in which an object is a capsule, a self-containe … d entity that embeds data and the methods that operate upon that data.
Encapsulation means hiding the internal details of an object, i.e. how an object does something. Encapsulation prevents clients from seeing its inside view, where the behaviour of the abstraction is implemented. Encapsulation is a technique used to protect the information in an object from the other object. Hide the data for security such as making the variables as private, and expose the property to access the private data which would be public. So, when you access the property you can validate the data and set it.
Inheritance is the ability to use the data and methods of one kind of object by another as if they were defined in the other object to begin with. Polymorphism means that an object that inherits appears to be both kinds of object, the kind of object it is itself and the kind of object from which it inherits. Encapsulation in this sense means that a programmer can bundle data and methods into a single entity. We've seen that a Scam function can have local variables and local functions.
Inheritance, encapsulation, abstraction, and polymorphism are four fundamental concepts of object-oriented programming. This article focuses on inheritance. Encapsulation, abstraction, and polymorphism are covered in other articles. Please read Object-oriented programming concepts: Objects and classes and Object-oriented programming concepts: Writing classes if you have not already done so.
Fields, properties, methods, and events are only one part of OOP. Generally speaking, a language like Visual Basic is object oriented if it supports: Abstraction —The ability to create an abstract representation of a concept in code (as an object named employee is an abstraction of a real employee). Encapsulation —Encapsulation is all about the separation between implementation and interface. In other words, when you encapsulate an object, you make its code and data internal and no longer accessible to the outside except through a well-defined interface. This is also called data hiding. 
Encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism and abstraction form the four main pillars of object oriented programming. Encapsulation includes information hiding (private and protected data and methods). All the functionality of an object should be fully encapsulated by the object itself. They are three of the four pillars of object-oriented programming. The fourth is abstraction. Encapsulation describes the way in which an object is a capsule, a self-containe … d entity that embeds data and the methods that operate upon that data.
Abstraction is related to polymorphism in that pure-virtual methods in the base class must be overridden by the derived class in order to instantiate the derived class. Any class that declares a pure-virtual method is automatically an abstract base class and cannot be instantiated. They are three of the four pillars of object-oriented programming. The fourth is abstraction. Encapsulation describes the way in which an object is a capsule, a self-containe … d entity that embeds data and the methods that operate upon that data.
Re: C# Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism. Posted. You can build on top of the base class or you can make your own. Everything in .NET is derived from System.Object, this is the ultimate base class of all classes in the .NET Framework; it is the root of the type hierarchy. 
Encapsulation is one of the four fundamental OOP concepts. The other three are inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction. Encapsulation in Java is a mechanism of wrapping the data (variables) and code acting on the data (methods) together as as single unit. 
Introduction to Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts in C#: Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance and Polymorphism. This article defines the Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance and Polymorphism concepts in C#.