Dr. Theodor H. Benzinger, a medical researcher who invented the ear thermometer and a device to measure calorie loss, died on Tuesday at a retirement home in Bethesda, Md. He was 94. And he held patents on 40 inventions, the most famous the ear thermometer, which he developed in 1964. A former colleague, Dr. Lutz A. Kiesow, said Dr. Benzinger had been keenly interested in how the body maintains its narrow range of temperature, and in its deviations during fever and hypothermia.
In 1612, the Italian inventor Santorio Santorio became the first inventor to put a numerical scale on his thermoscope. It was perhaps the first crude clinical thermometer, as it was designed to be place in a patient's mouth for temperature taking. Both Galilei's and Santorio's instruments were not very accurate. In 1654, the first enclosed liquid-in-a-glass thermometer was invented by the Grand Duke of Tuscany, Ferdinand II. The Duke used alcohol as his liquid.
Over the next several years this thermoscope was developed by Santorio Santorio and Galileo's friend Gianfrancesco Sagredo (both in Venice), Galileo, and others to include a numerical scale. It had thus become a full-fledged air thermometer. The Thermometer. At the start of the seventeenth century there was no way to quantify heat. In Aristotelian matter theory, heat and cold were fundamental qualities. Like dry and wet, heat and cold were qualities combined with prima materia to make up the elements, earth, water, air, and fire.
Galileo Galilei invented the thermometer in late 1593, well before many of his other inventions and discoveries, which occurred for the most part after 1600. Later Developments. One problem with the thermometer was that there were no numbers on its face. Santorio Santorio, a colleague of Galileo, created the numerical scale and was the first person to measure human temperature with a thermometer.
Who invented the thermometer. The first recorded thermometer was produced by the Italian, Santorio Santorio (1561-1636) who was one of a group of Venetian scientists working at the end of the Sixteenth Century. As with many inventions the thermometer came about through the work of many scientists and was improved upon by many others. Galileo Galilei is often claimed to be the inventor of the thermometer. However the instrument he invented could not strictly be called a thermometer: to be a thermometer an instrument must measure temperature differences; Galileo's instrument did not do this, but merely indicated temperature differences.
The alcohol thermometer was the earliest, efficient, modern-style instrument of temperature measurement. As is the case with many early, important inventions, there are several people credited with its invention. 
Thermometers are devices that measure temperature. The Italian scientist Galileo invented the first air thermometer around 1600 and it has, and will continue to be, improved u … pon. A thermometer is often made from a sealed glass tube with a small amount of either mercury metal or alcohol at the bottom. The thermometers which we used were: clinical, digital and forehead. Thermometers measure temperature. They tell us what the weather is like outside so we can now how to dress without actually going out and feeling it ourselves. In terms of science it is very important.
Early History. The first thermometers were called thermoscopes and while several inventors invented a version of the thermoscope at the same time, Italian inventor Santorio Santorio was the first inventor to put a numerical scale on the instrument. Santorio invented several instruments, a wind gauge, a water current meter, the pulsilogium, and a thermoscope, a precursor to the thermometer. Santorio was the first to apply a numerical scale to his thermoscope, which later evolved in
The first person to put a scale on a thermoscope is variously said to be Francesco Sagredo or Santorio Santorio in about 1611 to 1613. The word thermometer (in its French form) first appeared in 1624 in La Recreation Récréation mathematique Mathématique. By, j leurechon who describes one with a scale of. 8 degrees The traditional method of putting a scale on a liquid-in-glass or liquid-in-metal thermometer was in three stages: 1  Immerse the sensing portion in a stirred mixture of pure ice and water at 1 Standard atmosphere (101.325 kPa; 760.0 mmHg) and mark the point indicated when it had come to thermal equilibrium.
Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit was the German physicist who invented a alcohol thermometer in 1709, and the mercury thermometer in 1714. In 1724, he introduced the standard temperature scale that bears his name-Fahrenheit Scale-that was used to record changes in temperature in an accurate fashion. In 1654, the first enclosed liquid-in-a-glass thermometer was invented by the Grand Duke of Tuscany, Ferdinand II. The Duke used alcohol as his liquid.