How much will a divorce cost? The average cost of divorce in the United States is $15,000. The good news is that the cost of a divorce can be managed just as you manage a household budget. The only cost associated with a mediated divorce is the cost of the mediator, fees paid to have an attorney review the agreement and filing fees with the court. Do It Yourself/Pro Se Litigation: Pro Se divorce litigation means you are representing yourself in your divorce case, without an attorney.
While there are varying figures given for the “average” cost of divorce depending on where you look (ranging from $4,000 to $15,000 or more), there is no realistic way to answer what yours will cost until the dust has settled and you can look back on what was spent. Factors that increase divorce expense. Administration and court fees are the most basic expense of a divorce and will vary by state. The initial filing fee to start a divorce action can range anywhere from less than $100 to more than $400.
Depending on where you live, asking how much the average divorce costs is like asking, What does it cost to eat out?. Well, would you like to go to McDonald's or Ruth's Chris? asks Rosemary Frank, a certified divorce financial analyst in Brentwood, Tennessee. By Laura Seldon for GalTime.com. When Madonna divorced Guy Ritchie in 2008, she reportedly settled with the famous filmmaker for $75 million as part of their divorce agreement. That's nothing, however, compared to Mel Gibson's $425 million divorce from Robyn Moore Gibson in 2011.
The filing fee for a divorce petition or complaint is approximately $100-$350 in most counties. It generally costs an additional $100-$200 to file a response to the petition. These fees are collected by the government and are in addition to any service or legal fees. The filing fees are in addition to the amount charged by LegalZoom. Learn more about pricing for LegalZoom's divorce servic
Online divorce or dissolution service: Total costs of up to £400 if your divorce or dissolution is managed by a solicitor. Between £40 and £200 if a solicitor isn’t involved in the process. If you’re divorcing or dissolving your civil partnership, you’ll want to know how much it’s likely to cost. Some costs, such as court fees, are fixed. Others, such as legal fees, will depend on how much legal advice you take and what the solicitor charges. You may be able to get help with the costs.
Attorney fees range widely and the total cost of your divorce will depend on numerous factors, such as where you live, whom you hire, whether your spouse is combative or collegial, how many issues you’ll need to resolve — and the list goes on. It’s a similar story if you try to find out how long your divorce might take. A few people reported that they paid their attorney as little as $50 per hour, and a few reported paying as much as $400 to $650 per hour. But the vast majority paid between $150 and $350 per hour, with $250 being the most commonly reported fee.
It will also depend on how much you and your ex-partner can agree between you. Solicitor (charging fixed fee): Total costs for an uncontested financial settlement start at £250 plus VAT, with court fees on top of this. This will not normally include negotiating how complex assets (such as a pension) should be divided or extra work if you and your ex-partner can’t agree a settlement. If you’re divorcing or dissolving your civil partnership, you’ll want to know how much it’s likely to cost. Some costs, such as court fees, are fixed. Others, such as legal fees, will depend on how much legal advice you take and what the solicitor charges. You may be able to get help with the costs.
Not surprisingly, the more issues that went to trial, the more the divorce cost. The consumers who went to trial on any issue in their case reported spending an average of $19,600 in costs, including $15,800 for attorney's fees. A few people reported that they paid their attorney as little as $50 per hour, and a few reported paying as much as $400 to $650 per hour. But the vast majority paid between $150 and $350 per hour, with $250 being the most commonly reported fee.
Court costs will vary, depending on the county in which you file your divorce complaint. The cost of filing the forms for divorce is around $52. There may be additional costs for serving (delivering) copies of the divorce complaint to your spouse ($25 usually covers the formal delivery of divorce papers). If you don't know where your spouse is, then you must publish the divorce complaint, and the publication fee is around $65. In addition to court costs, you will incur legal fees for your attorney and any experts you may need to hire (eg., tax experts, child custody experts, financial planners, and appraisers).