Recluse spiders are found in the south from California to Virginia. They've been found as far north as Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio. This map shows areas that are known to have Recluse Spiders and areas into which they are moving. They may also be in other areas. To use the traps most effectively for brown recluse spiders, place traps in closets or other secluded areas where you have seen spiders and/or webs. Brown Recluse spiders are known for their reclusive nature and avoid humans. However, despite their reclusive nature, they do bite humans.
Geographic Range. Presently, the known range of the brown recluse spider (Loxosceles reclusa) extends from Nebraska to Ohio and across the south from Texas to Florida. It is native to the United States, unlike other pest spiders such as the brown widow or yellow sac spider. In nature, these spiders can be found beneath rocks and logs. However, human-altered environments provide better conditions to brown recluse spiders than these natural settings. Brown recluse spiders may live inside boxes, clothing, shoes, furniture, bedding, rubber tires and other dry, dark, warm locations.
They are about 7–12 mm long. Familiar species in the United States include the brown recluse spider (Loxosceles reclusa). It is found in a large area of the Midwest, west to Colorado and the New Mexico state line and east to northern Georgia. The recluse spiders or brown spiders (genus Loxosceles), also known as fiddle-back, violin spiders or reapers, are a genus of venomous spiders known for their bite, which sometimes produces a characteristic set of symptoms known as loxoscelism.
The most common of Californian recluse spiders, the desert recluse is found in the Sonoran and Mojave deserts. The desert recluse is found in Arizona, Nevada, Utah and New Mexico. As with brown recluses, desert recluses are known to have necrotic venom. In nature, these spiders can be found beneath rocks and logs. However, human-altered environments provide better conditions to brown recluse spiders than these natural settings. Brown recluse spiders may live inside boxes, clothing, shoes, furniture, bedding, rubber tires and other dry, dark, warm locations.
Hobo Spiders live in the Northern United States as well as Canada. They can be found anywhere in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado,and Southern British Columbia. We feel that it is likely that there are Hobos in Northern California. To the left is a picture of a Hobo Spider bite. Brown Recluse bites are the same. About 50% of bites are 'dry,' meaning that no venom is injected, and nothing happens to the victim.
Brown recluse spiders live in a region comprising Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Missouri, Mississippi, Alabama and parts of Georgia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska. The brown recluse spider is well-known for its appearance and poisonous bite. It is the most common and widespread of the brown spiders, but it is found only in the south and central United States.
Here's a map of some of the dangerous spiders found in the United States of America-the Hobo Spider, Brown Recluse Spider and other Recluse Spiders. Close this page to return to the Spiders pages. 
The brown recluse, Loxosceles reclusa, Sicariidae (formerly placed in a family Loxoscelidae) is a spider with a venomous bite. Brown recluse spiders are usually between 6 and 20 millimetres (0.24 and 0.79 in), but may grow larger. While typically light to medium brown, they range in color from whitish to dark brown or blackish gray. The cephalothorax and abdomen are not necessarily the same color.
Eleven species of Loxosceles are indigenous to the continental United States, four of which are known to be harmful to humans. Brown recluse spiders are established in 15 states: Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, and Texas. 
Two other spiders that have the potential to produce necrotizing wounds, though much less well-documented than the brown recluse, are the hobo spider and the yellow sac spider. The hobo spider (Tegenaria agrestis) may be found in the Pacific Northwest as far east as Montana and south into Oregon and Utah. Although bites from the brown recluse and other recluse spiders can be a source of significant morbidity, diagnoses implicating these spiders as the culprits should be restricted to those regions of the country that support populations of the spiders. On a broader scale, spider bites in general are overdiagnosed.