Evolution is the process of change in all forms of life over generations, and evolutionary biology is the study of how evolution occurs. Biological populations evolve through genetic changes that correspond to changes in the organisms ' observable traits. 
Genetic Mutation. Mutation is simply defined as, random changes in genetic material. In molecular biology and genetics, mutations are accidental changes in a genomic sequence of DNA: the DNA sequence of a cell's genome or the DNA or RNA sequence in some viruses. 1 · A heterozygous mutation is a mutation of only one allele. · 2 A homozygous mutation is an identical mutation of both the paternal and maternal alleles. · 3 Compound heterozygous mutations or a genetic compound comprises two different mutations in
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements. 1 A neutral mutation has no harmful or beneficial effect on the organism. 2  Such mutations occur at a steady rate, forming the basis for the molecular clock. 3  In the neutral theory of molecular evolution, neutral mutations provide genetic drift as the basis for most variation at the molecular level.
The primary mechanism of significant change in DNA is mutation. That DNA is subject to mutation is a fact and it has been directly observed. In addition, many of the mechanisms of mutation are understood including mutations that can lead to drastic changes in an organism. This means we understand some of the mechanisms by which changes in an organism can be affected. These facts, that 1) DNA determines the nature of an organism and that 2) there are mechanisms through which DNA can be modified, are the basis of evolution. It is through these facts that evolution happens.
The basic definition of evolution is a change in the gene pool of a population of organisms over time. All of evolution is based on genetic change. These facts, that 1) DNA determines the nature of an organism and that 2) there are mechanisms through which DNA can be modified, are the basis of evolution. It is through these facts that evolution happens.
Mutations. Mutation is a change in DNA, the hereditary material of life. An organism's DNA affects how it looks, how it behaves, and its physiology  all aspects of its life. So a change in an organism's DNA can cause changes in all aspects of its life. Mutations are random
Mutation can result in several different types of change in sequences. Mutations in genes can either have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely. Mutations can also occur in nongenic regions. 1 A neutral mutation has no harmful or beneficial effect on the organism. 2  Such mutations occur at a steady rate, forming the basis for the molecular clock. 3  In the neutral theory of molecular evolution, neutral mutations provide genetic drift as the basis for most variation at the molecular level.
1 Silent Mutation: Although a change in the DNA sequence occurs, this type of mutation does not change the protein that is to be produced. 2  This is because multiple genetic codons can encode for the same amino acid. 3  Amino acids are coded for by three nucleotide sets called codons. Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions. Point mutations are the most common type of gene mutation.
Mutation and evolution. DNA is not perfect. Problems begin when control over parts of the 'blueprint' is lost. In physical terms, a mutation is an alteration in the sequence of nucleotides that comprise DNA-the instructions to make a protein encoded by the mutated DNA are changed. These changes can cause the cell machinery to act spectacularly differently.
DNA and Mutations. by the Understanding Evolution team. A mutation is a change in DNA, the hereditary material of life. An organism's DNA affects how it looks, how it behaves, and its physiology. So a change in an organism's DNA can cause changes in all aspects of its life.