Mozambique is located in southeastern Africa. Mozambique is bordered by the Indian Ocean, Tanzania to the north, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe to the west, and South Africa and Swaziland to the south. Malawi, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Mozambique Description. Mozambique was first inhabited by the San hunters and gatherers, and later by the Bantu speaking peoples who settled much of southern Africa. By 1498, Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama arrived, and later colonized the region in 1505. However, during the period of time that Portugal was combined with the crown of Spain (1580-1640), the region of Mozambique fell into ruins.
Zimbabwe map also shows that Zimbabwe is a landlocked country that shares its international boundaries with Mozambique in the east and north-east, Zambia in the north, Namibia in the north-west, Botswana in the west, and South Africa in the south. 
Mozambique is a country on the eastern coast of southern Africa bordered by the Mozambique Channel and the Indian Ocean in east. Border countries are Malawi, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe, it shares maritime borders with the Comoros, Madagascar and Mayotte Island (France). The detailed map below is showing Mozambique and the surrounding countries with international borders, provinces boundaries, the national capital, provinces capitals, major cities, main roads, railroads and airports.
To the north of Mozambique lies Tanzania, to the northwest Malawi and Zambia, to the west Zimbabwe, and to the southwest South Africa and Swaziland. Maputo, the capital of Mozambique, is situated at the pointy southern tip of the country's territory, not far from the South African and Swaziland border. LOCATION AND SIZE. Located in southeast Africa, Mozambique has a total area of 801,590 square kilometers (309,493 square miles)—an expanse which is slightly less than twice the size of the state of California.
The Republic of Mozambique is an African nation, bordered by Tanzania, Malawi, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Swaziland, and South Africa, with some coastline along the Indian Ocean on the eastern edge of the African continent. The capital and largest city of Mozambique is Maputo. Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world. 3. Mozambique used to be called Portuguese East Africa. 4. Life expectancy in the country is very low. The average life expectancy is only 40 years. 5.
Mozambique is located in southeast Africa. It borders the Indian Ocean to the east; Tanzania to the north; Malawi and Zambia to the northwest, Zimbabwe to the west, Swaziland and South Africa to the southwest. It is separated from Madagascar by the Mozambique Channel to the east. Mozambique is the 35th largest country in the world with a total area of 309, 496 square miles, which is twice the size of the state of California. Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world. 3. Mozambique used to be called Portuguese East Africa. 4. Life expectancy in the country is very low. The average life expectancy is only 40 years. 5.
[ʁɛˈpublikɐ di musɐ̃ˈbiki]), is a country in Southeast Africa bordered by the Indian Ocean to the east, Tanzania to the north, Malawi and Zambia to the northwest, Zimbabwe to the west, and Swaziland and South Africa to the southwest. It is separated from Madagascar by the Mozambique Channel to the east. The capital and largest city is Maputo (known as Lourenco Lourenço marques before). Independence between the 1st and 5th CENTURIES, Ad-bantu speaking peoples migrated from farther north and. west The area was explored by Vasco da Gama in 1498 and colonized by Portugal from 1505. After over four centuries of Portuguese rule, Mozambique gained independence in 1975, becoming the People's Republic of Mozambique shortly thereafter.