The 3 types of carbohydrates: 1- Monosaccharides: Simple sugars, the simplest carbohydrate form. In general, the basic molecular formula is (CH2O)n. Monosaccharide' function: a source of energy for organisms. Examples: Glucose, galactose, and fructose. The second type of carbohydrate is a disaccharide. Disaccharides are made of two monosaccharides linked together through an oxygen atom. Some examples are sucrose and lactose, which humans regularly digest as part of their diet.
The 3 types of carbohydrates: 1- Monosaccharides: Simple sugars, the simplest carbohydrate form. In general, the basic molecular formula is (CH2O)n. Monosaccharide' function … : a source of energy for organisms. The second type of carbohydrate is a disaccharide. Disaccharides are made of two monosaccharides linked together through an oxygen atom. Some examples are sucrose and lactose, which humans regularly digest as part of their diet.
1- Monosaccharides: Simple sugars, the simplest carbohydrate form. In general, the basic molecular formula is (CH2O)n. Monosaccharide' function: a source of energy for organisms. Examples: Glucose, galactose, and fructose. 2- Disaccharides: consist of two monosaccharides joined together by a covalent bond. 
The first type of carbohydrate is a monosaccharide. Monosaccharides include glucose, galactose, fructose, and ribose-all of which are essential for basic cellular function. … Monosaccharides generally look like a 'ring' of carbon atoms with oxygen and hydrogens branching off from the central carbon skeleton. The second type of carbohydrate is a disaccharide. Disaccharides are made of two monosaccharides linked together through an oxygen atom. Some examples are sucrose and lactose, which humans regularly digest as part of their diet.
The three carbohydrates -- sugar, starch and fiber -- are all made from molecules of sugar. However, sugar also refers to a type of carbohydrate. Sugars, or simple carbohydrates, contain just one or two molecules of sugar. However, carbs alone aren't bad. Everyone needs them because carbs are the body's primary source of energy. The three types of carbs -- sugar, starch and fiber -- all have a place in your diet. Even sugar is a good carb as long as the type of food from which you obtain it is healthy.
Definition of sugar: A sugar is a carbohydrate that is soluble in water Sugars are usually crystalline and have a sweet taste. Chemicals that are sugars often have names ending in -ose. For example, note the suffix -ose in fructose, glucose, galactose, sucrose, lactose, and maltose. 
Starch. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice. ( 4 The majority of grain products in the US are made from wheat flour. Good sources of dietary fiber include: 1  Beans and legumes. 2  Think black beans, kidney beans, pintos, chick peas (garbanzos), white beans, and lentils. 3  Fruits and vegetables, especially those with edible skin (for example, apples, corn and beans) and those with edible seeds (for example, berries). 4  Whole grains such as:
Simple carbohydrates have a ‘simple’ molecular structure and are made up of 1-2 sugar molecules. The simplest form of carbohydrate is glucose. Simple sugars that are found in foods include sucrose (table sugar), fructose (found in fruit), and lactose (found in milk). Not all simple carbs are bad. Natural simple carbs in fruit and milk are perfectly healthy. Instead it takes on the properties of a simple carbohydrate and is processed by the body in the same way. White rice, white flour, white bread, sugary cereals, and pasta, noodles and pretty much anything made from white flour are all examples of refined carbohydrates.
There are many different names for sugar. Examples of common names are table sugar, brown sugar, molasses, honey, beet sugar, cane sugar, confectioner's sugar, powdered sugar, raw sugar, turbinado, maple syrup, high-fructose corn syrup, agave nectar and sugar cane syrup. Good sources of dietary fiber include: 1  Beans and legumes. 2  Think black beans, kidney beans, pintos, chick peas (garbanzos), white beans, and lentils. 3  Fruits and vegetables, especially those with edible skin (for example, apples, corn and beans) and those with edible seeds (for example, berries). 4  Whole grains such as:
Carbohydrates often get clumped together in two extreme categories: good and bad. However, carbs alone aren't bad. Everyone needs them because carbs are the body's primary source of energy. The three types of carbs -- sugar, starch and fiber -- all have a place in your diet. Even sugar is a good carb as long as the type of food from which you obtain it is healthy.