A black smoker or sea vent is a type of hydrothermal vent found on the seabed, typically in the abyssal and hadal zones. They appear as black, chimney-like structures that emit a cloud of black material. Black smokers typically emit particles with high levels of sulfur-bearing minerals, or sulfides. Some hydrothermal vents form roughly cylindrical chimney structures. These form from minerals that are dissolved in the vent fluid. When the superheated water contacts the near-freezing sea water, the minerals precipitate out to form particles which add to the height of the stacks.
Most life on Earth is dependent upon photosynthesis, the process by which plants make energy from sunlight. However, at hydrothermal vents in the deep ocean a unique ecosystem has evolved in the absense of sunlight, and its source of energy is completely different: chemosynthesis. Chemosynthesis is the process by which certain microbes create energy by mediating chemical reactions. 
Hydrothermal vents. Hydrothermal vents-black smokers, white smokers and warm water vents-are areas on the sea floor where water heated by volcanic activity under the seabed gushes out. Unusually, the animal communities down here don't use the sun to get their energy. Instead, chemicals in the hot waters form the basis of the food chain. 
What are Hydrothermal vents. A Hydrothermal vent is a fissure in the planet s surface from which the surface geothermally heated water issues, the most famous hydrothermal vent system that is on land is in yellow stone national park. The way that Hydrothermal vents work is when 1. The seawater is being heated by molten rock in the Earths mantle, below the crust. As the water heats, chemical reactions occur. Oxygen, magnesium, potassium, and other minerals are removed from the seawater 2. The deeper the fluid goes, the hotter it gets.
Hydrothermal vents. Hot springs on the ocean floor are called hydrothermal vents. The most numerous and spectacular hydrothermal vents are found along worlds mid-ocean ridges. The heat source for these springs is the magma (molten rock) beneath the volcanic ridge system
A hydrothermal vent is a fissure in a planet's surface from which geothermally heated water issues. Hydrothermal vents are commonly found near volcanically active places, areas where tectonic plates are moving apart, ocean basins, and hotspots. Some hydrothermal vents form roughly cylindrical chimney structures. These form from minerals that are dissolved in the vent fluid. When the superheated water contacts the near-freezing sea water, the minerals precipitate out to form particles which add to the height of the stacks.
A hydrothermal vent forms when seawater meets hot magma. A venting black smoker emits jets of particle-laden fluids. The particles are predominantly very fine-grained sulfide minerals formed when the hot hydrothermal fluids mix with near-freezing seawater. These minerals solidify as they cool, forming chimney-like structures. “Black smokers” are chimneys formed from deposits of iron sulfide, which is black. The cold seawater is heated by hot magma and reemerges to form the vents. Seawater in hydrothermal vents may reach temperatures of over 340°C (700°F). Hot seawater in hydrothermal vents does not boil because of the extreme pressure at the depths where the vents are formed.
Hydrothermal Vent Creatures. Travel to a world of perpetual night--the deep ocean hydrothermal vents near the Galapagos Rift where life thrives around superheated water spewing from deep inside the Earth. Discovered only in 1977, hydrothermal vents are home to dozens of previously unknown speci