Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: coal is trees that ages ago had fallen over, and sort of, rotted by the swampiness around them. Stuff carried aorund by the sea settled on the bottom, and as the layers got thicker, the pressure caused the stuff to turn into sedimentary rock. Hope this helped xx. Source(s): And this is why there was so much vegetation to create all the coal. Sedimentary rocks originate from fine granular sediment, usually as the bottom of a large body of water. Derail · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Coal is found in thirty-eight states, and nearly one-eighth of the country lies over coal beds. Top coal-mining states include Montana, Illinois, Wyoming, West Virginia, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Colorado, Texas, and Indiana. Peat being the most inexpensive and anthracite being the most valuable. Most coal … in use is bituminous.     Another answer: A layer of coal in a mine is called a coal seam. 7 people found this useful.
Coal Ore. 641 pages on this wiki. Coal Ore is the most common ore, with the largest vein, in Minecraft and can be found in surface caves and cliffs, and their veins can be found anywhere underground from the dirt layer to the bedrock.
Surface mining is used to produce most of the coal in the U.S. because it is less expensive than underground mining. Surface mining can be used when the coal is buried less than 200 feet underground. In surface mining, giant machines remove the top-soil and layers of rock to expose large beds of coal. Once the mining is finished, the dirt and rock are returned to the pit, the topsoil is replaced, and the area is replanted.
Mining is classified by the method needed to reach the coal seam. When the coal is found close to the Earth's crust and taking away the overlying layers of material is not too expensive, surface mining is used to remove the top layers of materials and expose the coal. If coal is found in layers far from the surface, underground mining is the preferred technique. Vertical or slanted holes (shafts) are cut down to the mining area underground for ventilation for the workers and for transporting the miners, equipment, and coal. 
EXPERT ANSWER. Coal if formed when dead animals and plants got buried inside the layer of Earth. The layers increase form time to time and more dead plants and animals get buried in the layers. Therefore, coal is found in layers. For example, let us consider the layers of sandwich, on the first bread we apply the toppings and cover it another slice. Then some more topping is added to second slice and is covered by third slide. 
Coal (from the Old English term col, which has meant mineral of fossilized carbon since the 13th century) is a combustible black or brownish-black sedimentary rock usually occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds or coal seams. Coal is extracted from the ground by coal mining, either underground by shaft mining, or at ground level by open pit mining extraction. Since 1983 the world top coal producer has been China.
The layers of coal are called peat, lignite, subbituminous, bituminous caol, and anthracite. Peat being the most inexpensive and anthracite being the most valuable. Most coal … in use is bituminous.     Another answer: A layer of coal in a mine is called a coal seam. 7 people found this useful.
The layers of coal are called peat, lignite, subbituminous, bituminous caol, and anthracite. Peat being the most inexpensive and anthracite being the most valuable ... 