Symptoms of salmonella usually start from 12 to 72 hours after the bacteria has been swallowed. The symptoms include abdominal cramps, headache, fever, and severe watery diarrhea. Nausea and vomiting may also occur. People infected with salmonella can have milder or no symptoms. 
Food poisoning symptoms typically start after a few hours of having food. It can take anything from 2 to 6 hours for the symptoms to take over. In some people the symptoms are extremely painful and in some others it may be mild. 
Now, as to how long after ingestion of Salmonella you can get sick: the BEGINNING of symptoms is usually within 48 hours, but it may be as long as 72 hours. Food poisoning can be caused by different agents. Campylobacter, shigella, clostridium difficile, salmonella, and E. coli are only a few examples. They all have different incubation periods and depending on how much is ingested, can cause symptoms in as little as 30 minutes to as long as 4-5 days.
The symptoms generally appear 12 to 36 hours after exposure, but they can occur as quickly as six hours or as long as 72 hours after exposure. How is Salmonella spread? Salmonella live in the intestinal tracts of humans and other animals, including birds. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. This is what I found: Salmonella Symptoms Symptoms of a Salmonella infection, which is called salmonellosis, typically start 6 to 72 hours after you are exposed and can include: These symptoms usually last about four to seven days and often go away without treatment. 
Typhoid Fever Symptoms: Symptoms of typhoid fever appear between 8 and 14 days after eating contaminated food and last anywhere from 3 to 60 days. They include a fever of 104 F, weakness, lethargy, abdominal pain, coughing, nosebleeds, delirium, and enlarged organs. The most common symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramps, and fever. Typical Symptoms of Salmonella infection: Appear 6 to 72 hours after eating contaminated food and last for 3 to 7 days without treatment. 1  Diarrhea. 2  Abdominal Cramps. 3  Fever of 100 F to 102 F.
Symptoms of Salmonella infection, or Salmonellosis, range widely, and are sometimes absent altogether. The most common symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramps, and fever. Typical Symptoms of Salmonella infection: Appear 6 to 72 hours after eating contaminated food and last for 3 to 7 days without treatment. 1  Diarrhea. 2  Abdominal Cramps. 3  Fever of 100 F to 102 F.