A cyclone and flooding in Mauritius in 1980 led to an outbreak of typhoid fever. There is an increased risk of infection of water-borne diseases contracted through direct contact with polluted waters, such as wound infections, dermatitis, conjunctivitis, and ear, nose and throat infections. This was probably because the flood was complicated by population displacement. Floods in Mozambique in January-March 2000 led to an increase in the incidence of diarrhoea and in 1998, floods in West Bengal led to a large cholera epidemic (01,El Tor, Ogawa).
Leptospirosis is a very serious disease and if it continues to occur, it can result in numerous complications such as kidney damage and inflammation of the pancreas, liver, lungs and brain. Health problems caused by floods occur primarily due to the host, the environment and agents. The first regards the massive evacuations of residents, with the risk of inadequate cleanliness and insufficient food and water for the evacuees, which will affect their immune responses. The third is bacterial factors, the disease agents commonly found during flood disasters, including flies, rats, bacteria and dirt, causing the pollution of clean water. Some measures should be taken immediately to overcome post-flood diseases.
Floods can potentially increase the transmission of the following communicable diseases: 1  Water-borne diseases, such as typhoid fever, cholera, leptospirosis and hepatitis A. 2  Vector-borne diseases, such as malaria, dengue and dengue haemorrhagic fever, yellow fever, and West Nile Fever. This was probably because the flood was complicated by population displacement. Floods in Mozambique in January-March 2000 led to an increase in the incidence of diarrhoea and in 1998, floods in West Bengal led to a large cholera epidemic (01,El Tor, Ogawa).
Diseases typically transmitted by vectors can include malaria, dengue fever, yellow fever, and West Nile Fever, among others. In addition to water-borne and vector based diseases, there is also the potential for danger to those health workers who deal with corpses of humans who perished during the flood conditions. There is an increased risk of contracting diseases such as tuberculosis, some blood borne viruses, and infections of the gastrointestinal tract. Flood waters are a very dangerous environmental condition, even after the initial flooding has passed. Through an increase in water borne disease and disease vectors, flooding has the potential to be very dangerous for human health and safety
Flooding is associated with an increased risk of infection, however this risk is low unless there is significant population displacement and/or water sources are compromised. Of the 14 major floods which occurred globally between 1970 and 1994, only one led to a major diarrhoeal disease outbreak-in Sudan, 1980. This was probably because the flood was complicated by population displacement. Floods in Mozambique in January-March 2000 led to an increase in the incidence of diarrhoea and in 1998, floods in West Bengal led to a large cholera epidemic (01,El Tor, Ogawa).
Now, several weeks after the floods in Mumbai, the incidence of water-borne disease is on the wane but there are rising cases of vector-borne diseases. Vector-borne diseases are those that are transmitted to humans by an insect. They are often caused by the mosquitos that breed in the stagnant waters, such as those left behind after a flood. Mumbai is seeing rising cases of malaria. Frequent fallouts of floods, especially when they occur in the heat of the summer, are water-borne diseases and vector-borne diseases. In the summer of 2005, two large, well documented, and somewhat similar floods occured in Mumbai (formerly Bombay), India, and New Orleans, U.S.A.
However, during the flood and its aftermath, there are also threats to one’s health and safety. In the flood occurred in Bangladesh in 1988, diarrhea was found to be most common illness and a major cause of death amongst the population affected by the flood that helped spread the disease (Siddique, et al 1991). Indeed, many lives were claimed by the infectious diseases broken out during and after the wave surges of the Indian Ocean Tsunamis and resultant floods that devastated regions along the coasts in Southeast and South Asian countries (Government of Western Australia; Indonesia Relief 2005; Rose 2005; WHO).
Both floods occurred in warm, humid climates, and saw sewage and corpses floating in the streets. Such breakdowns in sanitation systems and contamination of drinking water evoke fears of water-borne diseases, which are contracted by either drinking or coming into direct contact with contaminated water. Frequent fallouts of floods, especially when they occur in the heat of the summer, are water-borne diseases and vector-borne diseases. In the summer of 2005, two large, well documented, and somewhat similar floods occured in Mumbai (formerly Bombay), India, and New Orleans, U.S.A.
Examples of this have occurred in the United States, China, and India during various flood conditions. Water-borne diseases are diseases that are caused by the contamination of fresh water sources by pathogenic microorganisms such as bacteria. This class includes a large number of sub-classes including bacteria, protozoans, parasites, and viruses. There is an increased risk of contracting diseases such as tuberculosis, some blood borne viruses, and infections of the gastrointestinal tract. Flood waters are a very dangerous environmental condition, even after the initial flooding has passed. Through an increase in water borne disease and disease vectors, flooding has the potential to be very dangerous for human health and safety