Junk food in its various forms is extremely popular, and an integral part of modern popular culture. In the US, annual fast food sales are in the area of $160 billion, compared to supermarket sales of $620 billion (a figure which also includes junk food in the form of convenience foods, snack foods, and candy). Some fast foods are high in calories and low in nutritional value, while other fast foods, such as salads, may be low in calories and high in nutritional value.. Foods commonly considered junk foods include salted snack foods, gum, candy, sweet desserts, fried fast food, and sugary carbonated beverages.
unhealthy food. Any food that is not regarded as being conducive to maintaining health; UFs include fats, in particular of animal origin, 'fast' foods–low in fiber and vitamins; 'junk food'–eg, potato and corn chips, pretzels, crackers–high in salt and tropical oils; 'white sauces'–northern Italian cuisine, high in fat. See Junk food.
Foods that are high in sugar are unhealthy. Doughnuts are considered an unhealthy food. Unhealthy food, or junk food, is typically less expensive than healthier options such as fruits and vegetables. Pizza is often considered unhealthy because it is usually high in fat and calories. Salty snack foods are unhealthy for most people due to the risk for hypertension. Unhealhty fast food is believed to cause obesity, diabetes, and other chronic health problems
Junk food is a pejorative term for food containing high levels of calories from sugar or fat with little protein, vitamins or minerals. Some fast foods are high in calories and low in nutritional value, while other fast foods, such as salads, may be low in calories and high in nutritional value.. Foods commonly considered junk foods include salted snack foods, gum, candy, sweet desserts, fried fast food, and sugary carbonated beverages.
The key differences between healthy and unhealthy foods often come down to the amount of fat, sugar and/or calories in each food. 
Rune Erlandsen. I love food. I do also love unhealthy food, unfortunately, and in an attempt to help myself and others with trying to eat healthier, I made this list to make people aware that what you might think of as healthy, might just be quite the opposite. But remember – if eating a kind of food makes you feel good, then do so!
Trans Fat. This is the most notorious of the unhealthy ingredients they put in foods, and has even led for a ban on them in New York City. Avoiding it is tricky, no thanks in part to the FDA that allows food manufacturers to say there’s no trans fat in foods, even when there is. 33 Most Unhealthy Foods You Should Avoid. With so much talk of healthy foods and what you should be eating, the foods that are the worst for us can get overlooked. The reason it’s so hard to avoid these kinds of food is because the things that make them bad also make them taste good.
Many margarines contain trans fat, a highly detrimental ingredient. Common in the American diet are processed foods that contain high doses of fat, sugar, sodium and calories, with little nutritional value. 
Unhealthy foods include fats (especially of animal origin), “fast” foods (which are low in fibre and vitamins), foods high in salt and tropical oils (e.g., fried potato crisps/chips), and cream-based (“white”) sauces (which are high in fat). Any food that is not regarded as being conducive to maintaining health; UFs include fats, in particular of animal origin, 'fast' foods–low in fiber and vitamins; 'junk food'–eg, potato and corn chips, pretzels, crackers–high in salt and tropical oils; 'white sauces'–northern Italian cuisine, high in fat. See Junk food.