Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. This is the British English definition of contextualize. View American English definition of contextualize. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for
90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. This is the British English definition of contextualize. View American English definition of contextualize. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for
The definition of contextualize means to analyze a word or event in terms of the words or concepts surrounding it. An example of contextualize is to keep feminist perspectives in mind when reading a novel written during the women's civil rights movement.
“. The term contextualization includes all that is implied in indigenization or inculturation, but also seeks also to include the realities of contemporary, secularity, technology, and the struggle for human justice... Contextualization both extends and corrects the older terminology. Contextualization is used in the study of Bible translations in relation to their relevant cultural settings. Derived from the practice of hermeneutics, it sought to understand the use of words borrowed into the Hebrew Scriptures, and later their Greek and Latin translations.
1 This will provide an overall context for each national case study and will help contextualize the use of Internet technology by environmental groups. 2  Nonetheless, the basis is established for a sustained and contextualised study of agency, activists, organisation, process, strategy and tactics. 1 The highly situated and situational nature of service learning requires that teacher-scholars in this field contextualize our studies and findings.
[+ object] formal. : to think about or provide information about the situation in which something happens. When the rebellion is historically contextualized, it becomes clear that there were many factors contributing to it. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. also British contextualisation /kənˌtɛkstʃəwələˈzeɪʃən/ Brit /kənˌtɛkstʃuəˌlaɪˈzeɪʃən/ noun [noncount]
Question: What is contextualization?. Answer: Generally, to contextualize an idea, statement or event is to place it within its larger setting in which it acquires its true and complete meaning. Contextualization aids comprehension. 
Contextualism describes a collection of views in philosophy which emphasize the context in which an action, utterance, or expression occurs, and argues that, in some important respect, the action, utterance, or expression can only be understood relative to that context. In epistemology, contextualism is the treatment of the word 'knows' as context-sensitive. Context-sensitive expressions are ones that express different propositions relative to different contexts of use.
Full Definition of CONTEXTUALIZE. transitive verb. : to place (as a word or activity) in a context. — con·tex·tu·al·i·za·tion \-ˌteks-ch(ə-w)ə-lə-ˈzā-shən, -chue-chü-ə-\ lə. Noun see contextualize defined For-english language. learners : to think about or provide information about the situation in which something happens.
Full Definition of CONTEXTUALIZE. transitive verb. : to place (as a word or activity) in a context. — con·tex·tu·al·i·za·tion \-ˌteks-ch(ə-w)ə-lə-ˈzā-shən, -chue-chü-ə-\ lə. noun : to think about or provide information about the situation in which something happens.