The Test. A red blood cell (RBC) count is typically ordered as part of a complete blood count (CBC) and may be used as part of a health checkup to screen for a variety of conditions. While an RBC count can be used to detect a problem with red blood cell production and/or lifespan, it cannot determine the underlying cause. In addition to the full CBC, some other tests may be performed at the same time or as follow up to help establish a diagnosis. Examples include: 1  Blood smear.
Medically termed as hematuria, red blood cells (RBCs) in the urine is considered to be normal if they are less in number. Generally about 2.5 million red blood cells are excreted in the urine everyday as part of the body's normal process to get rid of old and inefficient cells. 1 Urinary Tract Infections: Urinary tract infection (UTI) is the most common cause for red blood cells in the urine. 2  It occurs due to bacterial invasion in the urinary tract that may cause tissue damage. 3  This may eventually spread up to the urethra, bladder, and in some cases to the kidneys also.
Urine is a generally thought of as a sterile body fluid, therefore, evidence of white blood cells or bacteria in the urine is considered abnormal and may suggest a urinary tract infection such as, bladder infection (cystitis), infection of kidney (pyelonephritis). Epithelial (flat cells), red and white blood cells may be seen in the urine. Sometimes cells, cellular debris, and casts are seen in the microscopic urinalysis.
Since an RBC count is performed as part of a complete blood count (CBC) , results from other components are taken into consideration. A rise or drop in the RBC count must be interpreted in conjunction with other parameters, such as hemoglobin, hematocrit, reticulocyte count, and/or red blood cell indices. While an RBC count can be used to detect a problem with red blood cell production and/or lifespan, it cannot determine the underlying cause. In addition to the full CBC, some other tests may be performed at the same time or as follow up to help establish a diagnosis. Examples include: 1  Blood smear.
White Blood Cells in the Urine. White blood cells (or leukocytes) in the urine may be detected in the microscopic analysis of urine. In general, the presence of these cells in the urine is suspicious for a urinary tract infection (UTI). 
Though red blood cells are commonly found in urine, excess amount of RBCs may be a result of inflammation, disease, or injury to the urinary tract system. Let's know more about its causes and treatment, through this article. Advertisement. 1 Urinary Tract Infections: Urinary tract infection (UTI) is the most common cause for red blood cells in the urine. 2  It occurs due to bacterial invasion in the urinary tract that may cause tissue damage. 3  This may eventually spread up to the urethra, bladder, and in some cases to the kidneys also.
An RBC count is ordered as a part of the complete blood count (CBC) , often as part of a routine physical or as part of a pre-surgical workup. When someone has signs and symptoms suggesting a disease that might affect red blood cell production, a CBC that includes the RBC count may help make a diagnosis. While an RBC count can be used to detect a problem with red blood cell production and/or lifespan, it cannot determine the underlying cause. In addition to the full CBC, some other tests may be performed at the same time or as follow up to help establish a diagnosis. Examples include: 1  Blood smear.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Go to doctor ASAP: The presence of red blood cells in the urine is not consistent with urinary tract infection. It is more consistent with glomerulonephritis. The fact that you are now describing coughing in addition suggests what is known as a pulmonary renal syndrome. This needs immediate attention. 9. Get help from a doctor now ›. Anemia: If that is hemoglobin count, that is quite low and suggests anemia, not enough red blood cells. Anemia can be caused by iron deficiency, gastrointestinal blood loss, vitamin B12 deficiency, sometimes bone marrow disease, or chronic inflammation problem.
A high red blood cell count indicates there are too many red blood cells circulating in your bloodstream. Red blood cells (RBCs), also called erythrocytes, are produced in your bone marrow and transport oxygen from your lungs to tissues throughout your body. The threshold for a high red blood cell count is somewhat different from one medical practice to another. A high red blood cell count is generally defined as more than 5.72 million red blood cells per microliter (mcL) of blood for men and 5.03 million per mcL for women.
Urine (Definition). Urine is the product of the kidneys, which is produced to eliminate the waste products of metabolism, manage body fluid balance, &maintain acid-base balance. The blood is first filtered by the kidneys, and the composition of the resulting fluid is then altered depending on the body's needs. 9. Get help from a doctor now ›. Anemia: If that is hemoglobin count, that is quite low and suggests anemia, not enough red blood cells. Anemia can be caused by iron deficiency, gastrointestinal blood loss, vitamin B12 deficiency, sometimes bone marrow disease, or chronic inflammation problem.