Knowing how to become a freelance photographer can be easy, it's learning how to become a freelance photographer who makes money that can be the challenging part. You may decide to freelance for the practice or the fun, but most people jump into this career or hobby path as a means to bring in additional income.
As a freelance newspaper reporter, you can work for different publications, completing assignments or submitting stories or articles to suit the paper’s readership.
To start getting jobs as a freelance photographer, you need a portfolio. A portfolio will show samples of your work. Even if you have never had photographs published or publicly displayed, you can start a portfolio of your best work and then add onto it if you win photography contests or start receiving paid work.
Although there is no formal educational requirement to become a freelance photographer for a newspaper, you can enhance your skills and prospects with the right training. Consider pursuing a degree in journalism with a concentration in photography or photojournalism.
1. Meet the boss of the newspaper. Call the office for an interview with the boss or meet with the boss yourself. In order to get the job, you have to set up a meeting with person in charge. Ad. 2. You have to know the basics of becoming a photographer: 1  Be creative.
Cancel. Freelance photographers have a schedule that is constantly changing, and they need to be flexible in order to be accommodating. Become a freelance photographer by approaching newspapers and other similar organizations with tips from a professional photographer in this free video on photography.
Building Your Portfolio. You need a portfolio that shows that you can capture clear shots that tell a story. If you want to work for a newspaper, this means you need to concentrate on journalistic photography.
Newspaper photographers need a good eye for compelling shots, and this typically requires basic knowledge of current events. After all, you'll need to judge which photos are likely to capture the public's attention.
Save. Successful_Nick/iStock/Getty Images. Whether you're just starting out as a photographer and want to pick up some extra work, or just like working for yourself, freelancing for newspapers can help you gain experience and get your name out there.