Effectively distribute power to 4 to 45 receptacles in high-density rack environments. The plug-and-play architecture organizes power distribution, simplifies cable management, and lets you add and change IT equipment without an electrician. 
Pallet rack is a material handling storage aid system designed to store materials on pallets (or “skids”). Although there are many varieties of pallet racking, all types allow for the storage of palletized materials in horizontal rows with multiple levels. A selective pallet rack system is commonly used in a big-box distribution application, as well as in retail store inventory rooms, cold storage applications, wholesale stores, etc. Common components of selective rack include the following: 1  Load beams (also called step beams or box beams).
Whatever the level of criticality--basic distribution, remote monitoring, or control at the receptacle level--an Emerson Network Power rack PDU solution can fit your application needs. MPX-Adaptive Rack PDU. MPX is the most responsive and adaptive rack PDU available. With MPX rack PDU technology, you can respond to rack equipment changes and dynamic capacities by leveraging hot-swappable modular output power, hot-swappable modular communications and modular input power.​. MPH-Managed Rack PDU. MPH is a flexible rack PDU-a perfect solution for growing IT operations. The PDU offers control to the receptacle level, as well as monitoring of the strip and environmental input options, such as rack temperature and humidity.
A floor-mounted PDU, sometimes called a main distribution unit (MDU), provides an important management bridge between a building's primary power and various equipment racks within a data center or network operations center (NOC). A rack-mountable PDU mounts directly to an equipment rack so it can control and monitor power to specific servers, switches and other data center devices and assist in balancing power loads.
Whether you need integrated rackmount power distribution within rack enclosures or power anywhere in your data center, Eaton provides a full line of power distribution equipment. 
PDU with USB webcam, environmental IP monitoring. A power distribution unit (PDU) or mains distribution unit (MDU) is a device fitted with multiple outputs designed to distribute electric power, especially to racks of computers and networking equipment located within a data center. Data centers face challenges in power protection and management solutions. Each server cabinet may require multiple high current circuits possibly from different phases of incoming power or different UPSs. Standalone cabinet PDUs are self-contained units that include main breakers, individual circuit breakers, and power monitoring panels.
Distribution Center Racks. Tier-Rack is a rack manufacturer specializing in the production of portable distribution center rack, industrial shelving, carts, metal containers and storage bins. In the distribution center, Tier-Rack portable stacking DC racks save space, time and money. Another advantage of using Tier-Rack® portable racks is the ability to load incoming product directly on the stack racks. Once loaded, the distribution center racks can be moved by forklift trucks to the storage area and stacked for storage. This saves manpower and handling time, and often reduces the need for wooden pallets in the operation. Tier-Rack stacking racks are designed to meet the specifications of your distribution facilities
Email Page. Product DescriptionIntegrate power distribution into the rack environment, with the rack-sized Liebert FDC. The stand-alone cabinet blends physically and cosmetically with rack equipment, while offering the distribution capabilities of a much larger unit. Product Description. Integrate power distribution into the rack environment, with the rack-sized Liebert FDC. The Liebert FDC remote distribution cabinet extends the functionality of the PDU by packaging 168 poles (four complete panelboards) in a stand-alone cabinet with a rack-sized footprint. Multiple voltage options, panelboard options and monitoring options.
A rack PDU is a power distribution device designed to fit into a server rack in either a vertical (0U) or horizontal (1U or more) position. Rack mount PDUs are offered in many sizes and configurations depending on voltage, current, number and type of connections, as well as remote access and monitoring functionality. 1 Need for advanced monitoring of circuit/outlet. 2  While an out-level type of power distribution unit is the most advanced on the market, it can be used anywhere from a server closet to a data center rack installation.