Lanthanide and Actinide Chemistry is a one-volume account of the Lanthanides (including scandium and yttrium), the Actinides and the Transactinide elements, intended as an introductory treatment for undergraduate and postgraduate students. 
To complete our look at the periodic table there is one more group we have to consider. This group holds its own unique position in any pictorial representation of the Periodic Table. The two rows that are generally placed underneath the main Periodic Table are called the lanthanide series and the actinide series. The lanthanides are the elements produced as the 4 f sublevel is filled with electrons and the actinides are formed while filling the 5 f sublevel. Generally speaking, the lanthanides have electron configurations that follow the Aufbau rule. There are some variations, however, in a few of the lanthanide elements.
First and 2nd group belong to s-block of the periodic table as their valence electrons are filled in the s-orbital of the atom. Similarly from 3rd to 12th group, elements are related to d-block and also known as the transition elements. Uses of Lanthanides and Actinides. 1  They don’t find any use in their pure state. 2  They are used in the production of alloys of steel to improve the strength and workability of steel. 3  A well known alloy is mischmetal which is used in making magnesium based alloy (Mg mixed with 3% of mischmetal).
The D Block Elements. The lanthanides are located in block 5 d of the periodic table. The first 5 d transition element is either lanthanum or lutetium, depending on how you interpret the periodic trends of the elements. Sometimes only the lanthanides, and not the actinides, are classified as rare earths. The lanthanides are not as rare as was once thought; even the scarce rare earths (e.g., europium, lutetium) are more common than the platinum-group metals. Several of the lanthanides form during the fission of uranium and plutonium. The lanthanides have many scientific and industrial uses.
Lanthanides and Actinides. 1  The lanthanides and actinides are located mostly in the f-block of the periodic table. 2  Lanthanides are used in products such as hybrid cars, superconductors, and permanent magnets. 3  The actinide americium is used in smoke detectors. Actinides are the 15 elements with atomic numbers from 89 to 103. They are named after the first element in the series, actinium. The actinides group includes mostly man-made elements with only a few exceptions such as uranium and thorium.
There are two rows under the periodic table: the lanthanide and actinide series. The lanthanide series can be found naturally on Earth. Only one element in the series is radioactive. The actinide series is much different. They are all radioactive and some are not found in nature. 
The lanthanides and actinides are arranged below with a notation in the main body cell rather than making room for all these elements in the 3B group in the main body of the periodic table. Because of the f shell electrons, these two element groups are also known the f-block elements. All the lanthanide elements fill the 4f electron shell before the second 5d electron gets filled. Since all the lanthanides contain a 5d 1 electron, they belong in the 3B group. Similarly, the actinides contain a 6d 1 electron and fill the 5f shell before filling the 6d 2 electron. All actinides
All metals are placed at the left side of the periodic table. Around 75% of elements are metallic in nature and belong to s, d and f-blocks. The non-metals and metalloids are placed in p-block with few metals. The elements of f-block are also called as Lanthanides and Actinides. These names come from the Lanthanum and Actium after which, both series of f-block are started. Uses of Lanthanides and Actinides. 1  They don’t find any use in their pure state. 2  They are used in the production of alloys of steel to improve the strength and workability of steel. 3  A well known alloy is mischmetal which is used in making magnesium based alloy (Mg mixed with 3% of mischmetal).
The 3B group marks the beginning of the transition metal elements. The third row of the 3B group contains all of elements between element 57 (lanthanum) and element 71 (lutetium). These elements are grouped together and called the lanthanides. Similarly, the fourth row of group 3B contains the elements between elements 89 (actinium) and element 103 (lawrencium). These elements are known as the actinides. All the lanthanide elements fill the 4f electron shell before the second 5d electron gets filled. Since all the lanthanides contain a 5d 1 electron, they belong in the 3B group. Similarly, the actinides contain a 6d 1 electron and fill the 5f shell before filling the 6d 2 electron. All actinides
Lanthanides and actinides are also called inner transition elements. They are placed at the bottom of the periodic table. Each row has its own name. The elements cerium (Ce) through lutetium (Lu) are called the lanthanides and thorium (Th) through lawrencium (Lr) make up the actinides. Except for uranium few of the inner transition elements are well known. The lanthanides begin with lanthanum (La). The 4f energy levels are very close in energy to the 5d levels.