For our example today, we will use Santa Clarita, California which would have an average cost per Kilowatt-Hour of 14.37 cents. Next, multiply the Kilowatt-Hours found in step 2 by this price to find out how much it costs to run your air conditioner for one hour. Then multiply it by 24 to find out how much it costs for a day, and then by 30 to find out how much it costs to run your air conditioner for a month. 4.32 X 14.37 = 62 cents an hour, 62 X 24 = $14.89 per day, $14.89 X 30 = $446.96 per month, This section is on how to calculate the cost to run an air conditioner quickly using a rule-of-thumb method. If you want to know the exact amount that you are paying for your air conditioner, breeze through this and then go to the next section.
Price (kWh): Enter the cost you are paying on average per a kilowatt hour, average price in North America is 10 cents. Decreasing the use of an air conditioner will help lower costs, cooling is generally expensive and there are not many options to save money without increasing your temperature. Electricity usage of an Air Conditioner. A room air conditioner is used to cool an apartment or a single room, they are often placed inside of a window and bring in outside air while cooling it. Single room air conditioners come in different sizes and use from 500 to 1500 watts. Click calculate to find the energy consumption of a room air conditioner using 1000 Watts for 3 hours a day @ $0.10 per a kWh
Use the calculator below to figure out how much energy your AC unit consumes! Plug in the items in yellow and the cells in green will tell you how much energy your AC uses and how much it costs you. You will need an estimate of how much time the AC is on per day (in hours). In order to figure out the electricity consumption of your air conditioner unit, you have to first read the label to figure out how many Amps and at what Voltage your unit consumes electricity. You will find this on the unit's data tags.
Step 4. Multiply the air conditioner power consumption per hour times the number of hours the unit runs per day to determine the daily power usage by the air conditioner. If the air conditioner is used 10 hours per day, the daily power usage is 10 kilowatt-hours per day. Step 5. Multiply the kilowatt-hours used per day times the electricity rate charged by the power company. If you use 10 kilowatt-hours daily and the highest-tier rate you pay is 20 cents, the air conditioner costs $2.00 per day, or about $60 per month.
The energy use of a central air conditioner highly depends on the climate of the region, a central air conditioner will run 3 to 7 months of the year depending on the outside temperature. An average central ac will use 3000 to 5000 watts of power every hour for around 9 hours a day during the hotter months. Click calculate to find the energy consumption of a central air conditioner using 3500 Watts for 3 hours a day @ $0.10 per a kWh. Running 3 hours a day is the same as running 9 hours a day for 4 of the warmer months. Cost Per Hour: Cost Per Day: If you live in a hot climate your cooling costs can be significant, around 70% of your electricity bill. Investing in an energy efficient central conditioner unit fit precisely for the size of your home would be ideal.
Step 3. Divide the 8,000 BTU cooling capacity by the EER to determine the power consumption in watts per hour of the air conditioner. For example, if you have an A/C unit with an EER of 8, divide 8,000 by 8 to get a power consumption of 1,000 watts per hour -- or one kilowatt per hour. Step 5. Multiply the kilowatt-hours used per day times the electricity rate charged by the power company. If you use 10 kilowatt-hours daily and the highest-tier rate you pay is 20 cents, the air conditioner costs $2.00 per day, or about $60 per month.
Figuring out how many watts an air conditioner uses is not entirely straightforward. The answer depends on factors such as the model, size and age of the unit and the characteristics of your home. Although you could research the how many watts an air conditioner uses and then calculate the usage of your own A/C, that number is still only going to be a rough estimate. Central air conditioning draws extra power each time it turns on, and you can’t tell how efficiently the system is working