Poly Coated Chromo Paper. With its high ink retention capacity and lay flat property, this chromo paper offered by us in the market is highly praised. Known for its use in the making of wrapping papers and packaging, it has a high demand in the market. Further, we offer this product to our clients at a minimum rate. We are engaged in providing a range of high quality chromo coated paper that is extensively used in packing applications of various industries such as soap & detergent etc. These papers are coated by an inorganic compound that exhibits certain qualities such as surface gloss, smoothness, ink absorbency and... more...
Chromo paper: Includes woodpulp or woodfree stocks coated on one side (C1S). Chromo paper is used mainly to make labels, wrappings, and cover paper. Art printing paper: A premium-grade stock coated on both sides (C2S), preferable for the high-quality reproduction of color prints. 
Definition of CHROMO PAPER. : a coated paper suitable for color printing. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
✓ Thanks for Contacting Us. With its high ink retention capacity and lay flat property, this Chromo Paper offered by us in the market is highly praised. Known for its use in the making of wrapping papers and packaging, it has a high demand in the market. Further, we offer this product to our clients at a minimum rate. Widely used for the purpose of making labels in several industries, this Cast Coated Paper is highly preferred in the market. Manufactured using the best quality raw materials that are available in the market, its quality is never compromised.
Being one of the leading manufacturers and providers of this DMP Chromo Paper, we manufacture it using raw materials of the highest grade and advanced machinery. Offered by us to the clients at a very reasonable price and in several specifications, this offered product is highly preferred in the market. Further, ... We are engaged in providing a range of high quality chromo coated paper that is extensively used in packing applications of various industries such as soap & detergent etc. These papers are coated by an inorganic compound that exhibits certain qualities such as surface gloss, smoothness, ink absorbency and... more...
Being one of the leading manufacturers and providers of this DMP Chromo Paper, we manufacture it using raw materials of the highest grade and advanced machinery. Offered by us to the clients at a very reasonable price and in several specifications, this offered product is highly preferred in the market. Widely used for the purpose of making labels in several industries, this Cast Coated Paper is highly preferred in the market. Manufactured using the best quality raw materials that are available in the market, its quality is never compromised.
Made available to clients at the best rate possible, the offered Chromo Label Paper has a high demand in the market. For the purpose of providing maximum satisfaction, we engage in using the finest raw materials and modern machines in its manufacture that is carried out as per the set industry norms and guidelines. Ask for Price. Made available to clients at the best rate possible, the offered Chromo Paper has a high demand in the market. For the purpose of providing maximum satisfaction, we acquire the products from vendors who never compromise with the quality.
Chromolithography is a method for making multi-colour prints. This type of colour printing stemmed from the process of lithography, and it includes all types of lithography that are printed in colour. When chromolithography is used to reproduce photographs, the term photochrome is frequently used. Lithographers sought to find a way to print on flat surfaces with the use of chemicals instead of relief or intaglio printing.
Chromo paper. A paper which is coated and then supercalendered (polished) on one side. only. Used for greetings cards and label stock. Cast-coated paper. A paper which is coated in the conventional way but with the coating dried. by passing the wet-coated web around a highly polished drying cylinder. 