How much income tax would get deducted and would it get deducted on a monthly basis? Someone told me that since I have investments of Rs 1 lakhs, I would have to pay an income tax of 33% on 50,000 Rs, which is Rs.16,500 per month.
What is the income tax on a salary of Rs.12 lakhs per annum? I recently got a job opportunity at a private company in Pune where they are offering me a salary of Rs 12 lakhs per annum. Someone told me that since I have investments of Rs 1 lakhs, I would have to pay an income tax of 33% on 50,000 Rs, which is Rs.16,500 per month.
Report Abuse. pro rata means accordingly calculated in latin. Per annum means per year in latin. It means that if the pay was £25,000 a year for a full time person you'd get it calculated for the part time position but it's easier to understand how much the salary is if it is written like this. It means the figure shown as a wage in a job ad won't be what you'll be paid. EG - £30k per annum (pro rata) for a job advertised as 17.5 hours per week would probably pay around £15k-the £30k refers to the full time pay.
While the annual salary represents a floor for an employee's wages, gross pay can exceed that level. For instance, if an employee is paid an annual salary of $23,000 per year, but he is eligible for, and works, $5,000 worth of overtime, his gross pay will be $28,000 -- more than his salary. But while every employee who is paid earns gross pay, not every employee earns a salary. Defining Gross Pay. An employee's gross pay is the amount of his wages before any deductions, including taxes and benefits. Gross pay may be determined by the amount an employee works, as in hourly pay, or at a set rate, as in a weekly salary.
1. per annum-by the year; every year (usually with reference to a sum of money paid or received); he earned $100,000 per annum; we issue six volumes per annum. p.a. , per year, annually, each year
Definition. Total amount of income earned annually. Gross annual income represents the amount of money a person earns in one year from all sources before taxes. When preparing an income tax return, the gross annual income figure is the base figure with which to start
Report Abuse. Lat: through the course of a year; annually. Anything (e.g., interest, wages, rent) which is calculated per annum is calculated on the basis of a year in time; sometimes a per annum rate will be fixed at 1/360th instead of 1/365th per day. Regards, Rick. rick c · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Example. If you have an employee who earns $40,000 per year, that $40,000 is her gross annual salary, but it is not her gross total compensation unless she receives no additional pay or benefits. Total gross compensation is the amount an employee receives before any deductions or adjustments. Unlike gross salary, which is the earned hourly or annual wages before deductions, total gross compensation includes tips, bonuses and other benefits employers give employees during the period being reported.