Mad cow disease, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), is a fatal brain disorder that occurs in cattle and is caused by some unknown agent. In BSE, the unknown agent causes the cow's brain cells to die, forming sponge-like holes in the brain. The cow behaves strangely and eventually dies. Mad Cow Disease = BSE. Mad cow disease is more correctly referred to as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE. In this article, we will use BSE to designate mad cow disease. Origins of BSE. BSE is thought to have come from a similar disease in sheep called scrapie.
The word BSE is short but it stands for a disease with a long name, bovine spongiform encephalopathy. Bovine means that the disease affects cows, spongiform refers to the way the brain from a sick cow looks spongy under a microscope, and encephalopathy indicates that it is a disease of the brain. BSE is commonly called “mad cow disease.”. 
Researchers believe that the infectious agent that causes mad cow disease is an abnormal version of a protein normally found on cell surfaces, called a prion. For reasons still unknown, this protein becomes altered and destroys nervous system tissue -- the brain and spinal cord. A human version of mad cow disease called variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) is believed to be caused by eating beef products contaminated with central nervous system tissue, such as brain and spinal cord, from cattle infected with mad cow disease.
A cow with BSE. Infected animals lose the ability to stand. Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), commonly known as mad cow disease, is a fatal neurodegenerative disease (encephalopathy) in cattle that causes a spongy degeneration in the brain and spinal cord. 
Mad cow disease, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), is a fatal brain disorder that occurs in cattle. Jerry Dodrill/ Getty Images. To the cattle industry, an outbreak of mad cow disease is an ever-looming nightmare. In the 1980s and '90s, the brain disorder infected 180,000 livestock in Europe and claimed dozens of human lives, devastating the British cattle industry. 
Mad cow disease is a fatal disease that slowly destroys the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system) in cattle. It also is known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE. People cannot get mad cow disease. But in rare cases they may get a human form of mad cow disease called variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD), which is fatal. 
Mad cow disease is an infectious disease caused by prions that affect the brains of cattle. The actual name of the disease is bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), a name that refers to the changes seen in brain tissue of affected cows. Abnormal proteins called prions are found in brain tissue of diseased cattle and appear to be the particle that transmits the infection.
Mad Cow disease is technically known as Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy. It belongs to a class of diseases, known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. Basically meaning, diseases that leave your brain looking like a wet sponge. 
Mad Cow Disease is the common term for Bovine Spongiform Encepholopathy (BSE), a progressive neurological disorder of cattle which can be transmitted to other species, including humans. In humans, it is called Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, after the two doctors who first described the symptoms of the disease. The disease in cattle is called Bovine Spongiform Encepholopathy because this form of the disease occurs in cows (therefore, the term bovine), it causes a sponge-like destruction of the brain (therefore, the term spongiform encepholopathy-enceph means. and pathy means. - meaning an abnormality)