Characteristics of Gymnosperms. Gymnosperms are a group of plants with the following unique characteristics: 1  They do not have an outer covering or shell around their seeds. 2  They do not produce flowers. 3  They do not produce fruits. 4  They are pollinated by the wind. He has a master's degree in science education. In this lesson, we will explore gymnosperms, which are a unique group of plants that do not have bright flowers or seeds that are protected in fruit. We will examine types of them as well as their characteristics and the way they reproduce.
Their naked condition stands in contrast to the seeds and ovules of flowering plants (angiosperms), which are enclosed within an ovary. Gymnosperm seeds develop either on the surface of scales or leaves, often modified to form cones, or at the end of short stalks as in Ginkgo. The gymnosperms and angiosperms together compose the spermatophytes or seed plants. By far the largest group of living gymnosperms are the conifers (pines, cypresses, and relatives), followed by cycads, gnetophytes (Gnetum, Ephedra and Welwitschia), and Ginkgo (a single living species)
Diffen › Science › Biology › Botany. Angiosperms, also called flowering plants, have seeds that are enclosed within an ovary (usually a fruit), while gymnosperms have no flowers or fruits, and have unenclosed or “naked” seeds on the surface of scales or leaves. Gymnosperm seeds are often configured as cones. Since gymnosperms and angiosperms are both vascular plants, they have a sporophyte-dominant life-cycle. Tissue formation in angiosperms exceeds the amount and complexity found in gymnosperms. Angiosperms have a triploid vascular tissue, flat leaves in numerous shapes and hardwood stem
Gymnosperms are a group of plants that share one common characteristic: they bear seeds, but their seeds do not develop within an ovary. report this answer. 
The difference between an Angiosperm and a Gymnosperm is that Angiosperms are flowering plants while Gymnosperms are not. A. include plants that use flowers to reproduce. More … information on this topic can be researched online or in a biology book. Angiosperms and gymnosperms are both seed-bearing plants. However, angiosperms produce flowers, while gymnosperms just have plain, uncovered seeds. Pine trees, for example, ar … e gymnosperms because they have cones with seeds that simply fall out when the cones are opened. I hope that helped you!
Gymnosperms do not have flower whereas angiosperms have flower The seed of the gymnosperms is unprotected (naked seed) compared to angiosperm's seed is protected in ovary. Gy … mnosperms consists of tracheid (except Gnetum sp. Angiosperms and gymnosperms are both seed-bearing plants. However, angiosperms produce flowers, while gymnosperms just have plain, uncovered seeds. Pine trees, for example, ar … e gymnosperms because they have cones with seeds that simply fall out when the cones are opened. I hope that helped you!
They are both seed vascular plants their function is to do photosynthesis. Angiosperms produce seeds that are protected by a fruit and flowers. Gymnosperms does not have thos … e. Gymnosperms are mostly evergreens which keep their needle-like leaves all years. Angiosperms and gymnosperms are both seed-bearing plants. However, angiosperms produce flowers, while gymnosperms just have plain, uncovered seeds. Pine trees, for example, ar … e gymnosperms because they have cones with seeds that simply fall out when the cones are opened. I hope that helped you!