Figurative language is a term used to describe an author's use of language to extend meaning. This is achieved by deviating from the literal meaning of words or by deviating from the usual arrangement of words. Simile is a comparison of two things using the words like or as.. He looks like an elephant. Symbolism is a literary method of extending meaning through the use of commonly accepted symbols or something that stands for another thing.
Figurative language is words or groups of words that stand for more than their literal meaning. A simile is one kind of figurative language. A simile uses the words like or as to compare two unlike things. Figurative Language. Figurative language is words or groups of words that stand for more than their literal meaning. A simile is one kind of figurative language. A simile uses the words like or as to compare two unlike things. For example, an author might say, Tiger crept up behind Fox as silently as a whisper.
of words, language, etc. : used with a meaning that is different from the basic meaning and that expresses an idea in an interesting way by using language that usually describes something else: not literal. : showing people and things in a way that resembles how they really look: not abstract. 
Figurative Language Examples. The definition of figurative language is when you describe something by comparing it with something else. There are few different ways to use figurative language. See below for more information and examples of figurative language and how to use it. Remove these ad
Figurative use of language is the use of words or phrases that implies a non-literal meaning which does make sense or that could [also] be true. Figurative language can take multiple forms, such as simile or metaphor. Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia Of Literature says that figurative language can be classified in five categories: resemblance or relationship, emphasis or understatement, figures of sound, verbal games, and errors.
Imagery Definition. Imagery means to use figurative language to represent objects, actions and ideas in such a way that it appeals to our physical senses. Usually it is thought that imagery makes use of particular words that create visual representation of ideas in our minds. 
Figurative language can appear in multiple forms with the use of different literary and rhetorical devices. According to Merriam Webster’s Encyclopedia, figurative language has five different forms: understatement or emphasis, relationship or resemblance, figures of sound, errors and verbal games. Definition of Figurative Language. Figurative language means language in which figures of speech are used to make it effective, persuasive and impactful. Whenever we think of it, often metaphors and similes spring to our minds.
Literal and figurative language is a distinction within some fields of language analysis, in particular stylistics, rhetoric, and semantics. 1  Literal language uses words directly according to their proper meanings (signified). 2  Figurative (or non-literal) language uses words in figures of speech. Figurative language can take multiple forms, such as simile or metaphor. Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia Of Literature says that figurative language can be classified in five categories: resemblance or relationship, emphasis or understatement, figures of sound, verbal games, and errors.