Building on the multi-lip design of the Scotseal Classic, the Scotseal Longlife is designed to meet the harsh conditions of today’s heavy-duty environments. A newly formulated seal material and an added axial dirt excluder lip combine to battle high wheel end temperatures, harsh lubricants, and roadway contaminants. To extend service life, the three-lip sealing element contains a pre-lubed, spring-loaded primary sealing lip, a dirt exclusion lip, and an outer bumper lip. A Bore Tite® coating ensures a better seal than a metal-to-metal press fit.
Today, the SKF Scotseal PlusXL is preferred among many OE truck and trailer manufacturers, due to its history of high performance. ••••••• Industry estimates indicate that as many as 90% of premature wheel bearing failures are a result of improper seal installation and subsequent leakage of lubricant. Scotseal ® PlusXL Premium performance wheel seals The elastomeric material in the original Scotseal ® Plus seal has been re-formulated to provide maximum sealing performance and longer life under virtually all driving and road conditions.
The Scotseal Classic is designed to handle a range of road and driving conditions. To extend service life, the three-lip sealing element contains a pre-lubed, spring-loaded primary sealing lip, a dirt exclusion lip, and an outer bumper lip. A Bore Tite® coating ensures a better seal than a metal-to-metal press fit.
The Scotseal Longlife's packing,however, consists of four sealing lips; a spring-loadedprimary sealing lip that is factory pre-lubed, a radial andaxial dirt lip, plus an outer bumper lip that acts as apreliminary dirt excluder. The Scotseal Longlife ispressfit into the hub bore using Scotseal InstallationTools. The Scotseal Longlife maintains a metal-to-metal contact between the seal O.D. and the hub boresurface as well as a metal-to-metal contact betweenthe packing I.D. and the spindle. The packing consists of three sealing lips;a spring-loaded primary sealing lip that is factory pre-lubed, a dirt exclusion lip, and an outer bumper lip thatacts as a preliminary dirt excluder. The seal is pressfitinto the hub bore using Scotseal Installation Tools.
Please try again later. SKF Scotseal PlusXL is a premium wheel seal, helping to extend bearing life by sealing lubricant in and keeping contaminants out of the hub cavity. 1  Autos & Vehicles. SKF Scotseal PlusXL is a premium wheel seal, helping to extend bearing life by sealing lubricant in and keeping contaminants out of the hub cavity. Category. License.
SKF Scotseals for truck wheel end. Proven as a standard in the heavy duty industry, SKF Scotseal units are available in a range of designs suited to the varying customer application requirements. The range begins with the SKF Scotseal Classic for normal severity. 
The most advanced generation Scotseal wheel seal is the preferred choice among many OE truck and trailer manufacturers. To extend service life, the three-lip sealing element contains a pre-lubed, spring-loaded primary sealing lip, a dirt exclusion lip, and an outer bumper lip. A Bore Tite® coating ensures a better seal than a metal-to-metal press fit.
Installation procedures: Scotseal ® PlusXL Caution: Do not install the Scotseal ® PlusXL directly onto the spindle.Place the hub (wheel) assembly flat or at least a 45° angle for seal installation. 1. Pre-lube the inner bearing cone with the lubricant that is being retained and place it into the hub. 2. Place the Scotseal ® Classic or Scotseal ® Longlife into the hub bore and insert the tool assembly with centering plug into the seal. Note: Be sure to wear proper eye protection. Also apply a thin layer of oil on the hub bore that the seal is being pressed into. NEVER INSTALL DRY. 3. Press the seal by hand evenly into the bore. A rubber mallet or other soft-faced tool may be used to gently tap the seal into place. Be sure that the seal is evenly seated and bottomed in the bore.
Built on a reputation for quality, innovation and value, the SKF Scotseal® wheel seal line offers an optimum sealing solution for a range of maintenance demands. All models feature superior materials and a unitized design to ensure easy installs and longer service life. To extend service life, the three-lip sealing element contains a pre-lubed, spring-loaded primary sealing lip, a dirt exclusion lip, and an outer bumper lip. A Bore Tite® coating ensures a better seal than a metal-to-metal press fit.