Inulin is a type of fiber that's found in certain plant foods. Chicory root is the main source of inulin in supplement form. Chicory was originally found in Europe and Asia. Egyptians grew it thousands of years ago as a medicine. 
Inulin is a heterogeneous collection of fructose polymers. It consists of chain-terminating glucosyl moieties and a repetitive fructosyl moiety, which are linked by β(2,1) bonds. The degree of polymerization (DP) of standard inulin ranges from 2 to 60. This is advantageous because inulin contains 25-35% of the food energy of carbohydrates (starch, sugar). In addition to being a versatile ingredient, inulin has many health benefits. It increases calcium absorption and possibly magnesium absorption, while promoting the growth of beneficial intestinal bacteria.
Inulin is used by some plants as a means of storing energy and is typically found in roots or rhizomes. Most plants that synthesize and store inulin do not store other forms of carbohydrate such as starch. This is advantageous because inulin contains 25-35% of the food energy of carbohydrates (starch, sugar). In addition to being a versatile ingredient, inulin has many health benefits. It increases calcium absorption and possibly magnesium absorption, while promoting the growth of beneficial intestinal bacteria.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Inulin is a polysaccharide that is produced by plants such as onions, leeks, Jerusalem artichokes, and garlic. It can also be referred to as neosugar, alant starch, Alantin, and diabetic sugar. Many manufacturers are putting it in processed foods because it has tremendous health benefits. 
Oliggo-Fiber ® inulin is a line of naturally* sourced soluable fiber ingredients-made from chicory roots. As an ingredient, Oliggo-Fiber ® inulin can add nutritional value to foods while improving taste and texture. Oliggo-Fiber ® inulin is a prebiotic fiber that is fermented in the lower intestine by the beneficial bacteria, bifidobacteria. Because inulin is a lower calorie carbohydrate, it is beneficial in formulating reduced and low calorie foods.
Found This Helpful. Inulin is both a fiber and a sugar. It is used as a fat substitute and a fuel source. Inulin fiber is used to help measure kidney function, can be converted into ethanol, and there is even evidence that it can assist in the management of diabetes (though it is not to be confused with insulin).
Inulin is increasingly used in processed foods because it has unusually adaptable characteristics. Its flavour ranges from bland to subtly sweet (about 10% of the sweetness of sugar/sucrose). It can be used to replace sugar, fat, and flour. This is advantageous because inulin contains 25-35% of the food energy of carbohydrates (starch, sugar). In addition to being a versatile ingredient, inulin has many health benefits. It increases calcium absorption and possibly magnesium absorption, while promoting the growth of beneficial intestinal bacteria.
INULIN Overview Information. Inulin is a starchy substance found in a wide variety of fruits, vegetables, and herbs, including wheat, onions, bananas, leeks, artichokes, and asparagus. The inulin that is used for medicine is most commonly obtained by soaking chicory roots in hot water. Inulin is used for high blood fats, including cholesterol and triglycerides. It is also used for weight loss, constipation, and as a food additive to improve taste.
Inulin is found in abundance in many non-starchy root vegetables and rhizomes such as burdock roots, Jerusalem artichokes, onions, and garlic. Most of the inulin fiber that is used as a food additive comes from chicory roots (which look similar to small beet roots) because of their consistently high inulin content. Inulin fiber is used to help measure kidney function, can be converted into ethanol, and there is even evidence that it can assist in the management of diabetes (though it is not to be confused with insulin).
Chicory is a Good Source of Inulin. Inulin or inulin fiber, as it is also known, is a carbohydrate. It is made up of a small number of linked sugar molecules and is therefore classed as an oligosaccharide. This term is derived from the Greek words oligos, meaning few and sacchar, which means sugar. This oligo-saccaride is largley undigested by the human digestive tract and inulin is thus also considered to be a fiber. High levels of inulin are typically found in the storage organs of plants, the roots. Those plant roots, which we eat as vegetables, can therefore be particularly good sources of inulin. These include: 1  Chicory root.