The collection pipe network of a leachate collection system drains, collects, and transports leachate through the drainage layer to a collection sump where it is removed for treatment or disposal. The pipes also serve as drains within the drainage layer to minimize the mounding of leachate in the layer. The primary criterion for design of the leachate system is that all leachate be collected and removed from the landfill at a rate sufficient to prevent an unacceptable hydraulic head occurring at any point over the lining system.
Anoxic and anaerobic processes do not require the input of oxygen, which is typically an energy intensive process in aerobic systems. 5-1 Anoxic systems Anoxic processes are typically used for the removal of nitrogen from wastewater. The process of biological nitrogen removal is known as denitrification. The primarily use of this technology is for the removal of nitrogen from wastewater. Description of process Nitrified process water flows into the anoxic reactor and is combined with a supplemental carbon source, typically a dilute methanol solution.
Evaporation of landfill leachate involves heating the leachate to produce a water vapor. Metals in the leachate concentrate and precipitate, primarily as salts, while the organics volatilize and stripped away by the water vapor. Leachate evaporation systems are generally economically feasible only at sites where there is an adequate supply of LFG to evaporate the volume of leachate generated. A typical landfill leachate requires approximately 22 to 25 standard cubic feet (scf) of LFG to evaporate one gallon of leachate.
The basic parts of a landfill, as shown in Figure 3, are: 1  Bottom liner system-separates trash and subsequent leachate from groundwater. 2  Cells (old and new) - where the trash is stored within the landfill. 3  Storm water drainage system-collects rain water that falls on the landfill. No system to exclude water from the landfill is perfect and water does get into the landfill. The water percolates through the cells and soil in the landfill much as water percolates through ground coffee in a drip coffee maker.
So, the landfill gas must be removed. To do this, a series of pipes are embedded within the landfill to collect the gas. In some landfills, this gas is vented or burned. A methane collection pipe helps capture the hazardous gas. A methane flare is used for burning landfill gas. No system to exclude water from the landfill is perfect and water does get into the landfill. The water percolates through the cells and soil in the landfill much as water percolates through ground coffee in a drip coffee maker.
Leachate from a landfill varies widely in composition depending on the age of the landfill and the type of waste that it contains. It usually contains both dissolved and suspended material. The generation of leachate is caused principally by precipitation percolating through waste deposited in a landfill. The primary criterion for design of the leachate system is that all leachate be collected and removed from the landfill at a rate sufficient to prevent an unacceptable hydraulic head occurring at any point over the lining system.
Leachate is a widely used term in the environmental sciences where it has the specific meaning of a liquid that has dissolved or entrained environmentally harmful substances that may then enter the environment. It is most commonly used in the context of land-filling of putrescible or industrial waste. The primary criterion for design of the leachate system is that all leachate be collected and removed from the landfill at a rate sufficient to prevent an unacceptable hydraulic head occurring at any point over the lining system.
Methane gas, a byproduct of decomposing waste, can be collected and used as fuel to generate electricity. This energy is commonly used to power the landfill itself, or sold to local utility companies or companies. 
This simple version of a traditional science experiment makes a great class project to demonstrate that oxygen is a by-product of photosynthesis. This project is best started in the morning of a sunny day. Elodea is the chosen plant because it gives off oxygen in the form of bubbles, which you should be able to see. Ad. Record your results. It is helpful to understand that the reason why the toothpick placed into the test tube kept in the sunshine burst into flame is because the tube contained oxygen,