1 Asexual reproduction involves only one parent. 2  All the off s pring are identical to the parent. 3  Asexual reproduction does not involve the process of meiosis and fertilization, hence the process does not require a mate for reproduction. 4  This type of reproduction is seen in lower forms of organisms.
Sexual reproduction involves the combination of genetic material between a male and a female of the species. Consequently, each generation is different from the previous one. This genetic variation is advantageous in that it allows the species to adapt more quickly to changing conditions in the environment.
Finally, if the environment in which the plant grows is stable and does not undergo a lot of change, it is advantageous to undergo asexual reproduction; if the parent plants are successful, it is a good idea to make clones of the plant that can be successful as well.
Some of the offspring will adapt and survive but the others won't. Asexual is best for stable environment Sexual is best for changing environment Asexual reproduction is also advantageous when species numbers are low, as the requirement of a mate to reproduce doesn't exist.
Asexual reproduction is an advantage in a stable environment. This is because it produces offspring genetically identical to the parent which is already well adapted and suited to th
1 One of the advantages of asexual reproduction is that only one parent is needed. 2  Once the organism is ready to reproduce, it can do so without waiting for a suitable mate. 3  Once an organism is established in a suitable habitat, it is able to reproduce rapidly to produce many new individuals in that particular habitat.
In multicellular organisms, asexual reproduction is very rare. Asexual reproduction may have short term benefits with rapid growth in population a stable environment while sexual reproduction allows more rapid genetic diversity in generations and also allows adaptation to changing environments.
Single celled organisms, such as archaea, bacteria and protists, commonly reproduce asexually. Certain fungi and some plants do as well. An advantage of asexual reproduction is that it results in more rapid proliferation of the species. Another advantage is genetic stability.