Application Designer updates the Web reference from the Web service URL location specified by the WSDL Location property. You can also refresh a Web reference from the project in Solution Explorer by right-clicking the Web reference in the Web References folder and choosing Update Web Reference. See Also. To refresh a Web reference to a Web service. On the application diagram, select an implemented Web service consumer endpoint. On the Diagram menu, choose Refresh Web Service Reference.
Note: When you update a Web reference from a Web service consumer endpoint, only that Web reference is updated. You can update all Web references associated with an external Web service or BizTalk Web service by refreshing that Web service, if the Web service definition has changed. For more information, see How to: Refresh External and BizTalk Web Services on Application Diagrams. To refresh a Web reference to a Web service. On the application diagram, select an implemented Web service consumer endpoint. On the Diagram menu, choose Refresh Web Service Reference.
Now in the Add Service Reference Dialog you need to click on the Advanced button. 3. In the Service Reference Settings Dialog you need to click on Add Web Reference button. 4. Now in the Add Web Reference Dialog you need to add the URL of the Web Service and click the Green Go button to discover it. Once the Web Service is discovered, give its reference an appropriate name using the Web Reference Name TextBox and click on Add Reference button. In this short article I will explain how to call (consume) Web Service (ASMX) in Windows Forms (WinForms) application using C# and VB.Net. Note: For illustration purpose, I am making use of the Free Web Service used for finding the geographical location of an IP Address.
.4. After clicking on the Add Web Reference tab, it will show the following window. Now this is a very important step, when adding the web reference to the ASP.Net Windows Application. Since you see the URL option in the following window, on that window we need to paste or type the Web Service URL address.
This article also demonstrates how to reference the Web service in a client application and how to display the returned DataSet in a DataGrid control so that you can update that data and send the updates back to the server. NOTE: You can only use the method in this article for single-table updates. 1 Press F5 to compile and to run the Web service. 2  A Web page is displayed in which you can interact with the Web service from within Microsoft Internet Explorer. 3  Note that the URL of the returned page is http://localhost/vbUpdateData/Service1.asmx. 4  On the Service1 Web page, click GetCustomers.
To add a reference to a service in the current solution. In Solution Explorer, right-click the name of the project that you want to add the service to, and then click Add Service Reference. The Add Service Reference dialog box appears. Click Discover. All WCF services in the current solution are added to the Service list. In the Service list, expand the node for the service that you want to use and select a service contract. In the Namespace box, enter the namespace that you want to use for the reference.
Create a Web service. 1  Start Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 or Microsoft Visual Studio .NET. 2  On the File menu, point to New, and then click Project. 3  Note In Visual Studio 2005, click Web Site instead of Project. 4  Under Project Types, click to select Visual Basic Projects. 5  Note In Visual Studio 2005, omit this step. 1 Under Project Type, click to select Visual Basic Project. 2  Note In Visual Studio 2005, click to select Visual Basic instead of Visual Basic Project. 3  Under Template, click to select Windows Application. 4  In the Name box, type ServiceConsumer, and then click OK. 5  By default, a form that is named Form1 is created.
Download Aspose, it really helps. Then after adding the Web Service reference in the ASP.Net Windows application the Solution Explorer will look as in the following: BackgroundIn my previous article we learned how to create a simple Web Service and also we consumed a Web Service in a web application. After clicking on the Add Web Reference tab, it will show the following window. Now this is a very important step, when adding the web reference to the ASP.Net Windows Application. Since you see the URL option in the following window, on that window we need to paste or type the Web Service URL address.
To add a reference to an external service. In Solution Explorer, right-click the name of the project that you want to add the service to, and then click Add Service Reference. The Add Service Reference dialog box appears. In the Address box, enter the URL for the service, and then click Go to search for the service. The Add Service Reference dialog box appears. Click Discover. All WCF services in the current solution are added to the Service list. In the Service list, expand the node for the service that you want to use and select a service contract. In the Namespace box, enter the namespace that you want to use for the reference.