• CINGULATE GYRUS (noun). The noun CINGULATE GYRUS has 1 sense: 1. a long curved structure on the medial surface of the cerebral hemispheres; the cortical part of the limbic system. Familiarity information: CINGULATE GYRUS used as a noun is very rare. Holonyms (cingulate gyrus is a part of...): limbic brain; limbic system; visceral brain (a system of functionally related neural structures in the brain that are involved in emotional behavior).
The cingulate cortex is a part of the brain situated in the medial aspect of the cerebral cortex. It includes the cortex of the cingulate gyrus, which lies immediately above the corpus callosum, and the continuation of this in the cingulate sulcus. The cingulate cortex is usually considered part of the limbic lobe. It receives inputs from the thalamus and the neocortex, and projects to the entorhinal cortex via the cingulum. It is an integral part of the limbic system, which is involved with emotion formation and processing, learning, and memory.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is the frontal part of the cingulate cortex that resembles a collar surrounding the frontal part of the corpus callosum. It consists of Brodmann areas 24, 32, and 33. Impairments in the development of the anterior cingulate, together with impairments in the dorsal medial-frontal cortex, may constitute a neural substrate for socio-cognitive deficits in autism, such as social orienting and joint attention.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: cingulate gyrus, gyrus cinguli (noun). a long curved structure on the medial surface of the cerebral hemispheres; the cortical part of the limbic system. 
Posterior cingulate gyrus is connected with retrosplenial cortex and this connection is part of the dorsal splenium of the corpus callosum. The anterior and posterior cingulate gyrus and retrosplenial cortex send projections to subiculum and presubiculum. The cingulate cortex is usually considered part of the limbic lobe. It receives inputs from the thalamus and the neocortex, and projects to the entorhinal cortex via the cingulum.
1 A gyrus is a fold or bump in the brain. 2  The cingulate gyrus is superior to the corpus callosum, located between the cingulate sulcus and the sulcus (groove or indentation) of the corpus callosum. Images: Cerebral Hemisphere, Medial View: Cingulate gyrus #3 For additional information see: Cingulate Gyrus Cingulate Gyrus: Definition. Most Emailed Articles. &quot;Big Five&quot; Personality Quiz. Anatomy of the Brain Cingulate Gyrus Function: Coordinates Sensory Input With Emotions Emotional Responses to Pain Regulates Aggressive Behavior Location:
cingulate gyrus. n. A long curved convolution of the medial surface of the cortical hemisphere, arched over the corpus callosum from which it is separated by the deep sulcus of the corpus callosum. Also called callosal gyrus. infracalcarine gyrus (lingual gyrus) one on the occipital lobe that forms the inferior lip of the calcerine sulcus and, together with the cuneus, the visual cortex. marginal gyrus the middle frontal gyrus. occipital gyrus any of the three (superior, middle, and inferior) gyri of the occipital lobe.
It is also involved in predicting and avoiding negative consequences. Transcript: An important part of the limbic system, the cingulate gyrus helps regulate emotions and pain. The cingulate gyrus is thought to directly drive the body's conscious response to unpleasant experiences. In addition, it is involved in fear and the prediction (and avoidance) of negative consequences and can help orient the body away from negative stimuli. 
Medical Definition of CINGULATE GYRUS. : a medial gyrus of each cerebral hemisphere that partly surrounds the corpus callosum. What made you want to look up cingulate gyrus?
The cingulate cortex, also known as limbic cortex, is a part of the brain situated in the medial aspect of the cerebral cortex. The cingulate cortex includes the entire cingulate gyrus, which lies immediately above the corpus callosum, and the continuation of this in the cingulate sulcus. The cingulate cortex is usually considered part of the limbic lobe. It receives inputs from the thalamus and the neocortex, and projects to the entorhinal cortex via the cingulum.