It is used to detect urinary tract infections (UTIs) and other disorders of the urinary tract. In those with acute or chronic conditions, such as kidney disease, the urinalysis may be ordered at intervals as a rapid method to help monitor organ function, status, and response to treatment. ^ Back to top
The urinalysis is used as a screening and/or diagnostic tool because it can help detect substances or cellular material in the urine associated with different metabolic and kidney disorders. It is ordered widely and routinely to detect any abnormalities that require follow up. In those with acute or chronic conditions, such as kidney disease, the urinalysis may be ordered at intervals as a rapid method to help monitor organ function, status, and response to treatment.
Urinalysis is commonly used to diagnose a urinary tract or kidney infection, to evaluate causes of kidney failure, to screen for progression of some chronic conditions such as diabetes mellitus and high blood pressure (hypertension). It also may be used in combination with other tests to diagnose some diseases. It is a very common test that can be performed in many healthcare settings including doctors' offices, urgent care facilities, laboratories, and hospitals. It is performed by collecting a urine sample from the patient in a specimen cup. Usually only small amounts (30-60 ml's) may be required for urinalysis testing.
1 Urinalysis. 2  Your doctor uses urine tests to look for red blood cells, high levels of protein, and excreted minerals in the urine that may indicate kidney or urinary tract problems. 3  A sample of your urine is also likely to be checked for bacteria that cause infection. 4  Blood tests. 1 Your doctor uses urine tests to look for red blood cells, high levels of protein, and excreted minerals in the urine that may indicate kidney or urinary tract problems. 2  A sample of your urine is also likely to be checked for bacteria that cause infection. 3
Mayo Clinic in Minnesota has been recognized as the best Urology hospital in the nation for 2015-2016 by U.S. News & World Report. Urinalysis is a test that evaluates a sample of your urine. Urinalysis is used to detect and assess a wide range of disorders, such as urinary tract infection, kidney disease and diabetes. Urinalysis involves examining the appearance, concentration and content of urine.
Why It Is Done. A urine test may be done: 1  To check for a disease or infection of the urinary tract. 2  Symptoms of a urine infection may include colored or bad-smelling urine, pain when urinating, finding it hard to urinate, flank pain, blood in the urine (hematuria), or fever. Red blood cells in the urine may be caused by kidney or bladder injury, kidney stones, a urinary tract infection (UTI), inflammation of the kidneys (glomerulonephritis), a kidney or bladder tumor, or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
Urinalysis, also called a routine urine test, is used to check for abnormalities in the urine.Urine is liquid waste, which is made by the kidneys and stored in the bladder until it is eliminated by the body through urination. A number of diseases and conditions can result in abnormalities in the urine. These abnormalities often may be detected through physical, chemical, and microscopic examination. Urinalysis may be performed as part of a regular physical examination to screen for early signs of disease. In patients who have kidney disease or diabetes, urine tests are used to monitor the condition. Urinalysis also may be performed to detect a urinary tract infection (UTI) , protein in the urine (proteinuria), or blood in the urine (hematuria), and to diagnose pregnancy. Toxicology screening can be used as part of urinalysis to detect illegal drug use
A urine test may be done: 1  To check for a disease or infection of the urinary tract. 2  To check the treatment of conditions such as diabetes, kidney stones, a urinary tract infection (UTI), high blood pressure (hypertension), or some kidney or liver diseases. 3  As part of a regular physical examination. Red blood cells in the urine may be caused by kidney or bladder injury, kidney stones, a urinary tract infection (UTI), inflammation of the kidneys (glomerulonephritis), a kidney or bladder tumor, or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).