Even though coroners are not often required to have any particular training or education to be elected to the position, training is available through the American Board of Medicolegal Death Investigators. The Board offers a 40-hour training course leading to certification.
In addition to education requirements, to be a coroner one will also need to have work experience in the medical field. Most places require a person that is interested in becoming a coroner to have a certification in forensic pathology and a medical license. On the job training is often required as well.
Most deaths are never investigated by a coroner because the cause of death is not under question. Coroners only investigate cases where the cause of death is not absolutely clear. This includes all accidental deaths, suicides and homicides, as well as cases where a person died suddenly without a doctor present.
Only 28 states use the coroner system. You are either appointed or elected to the position of coroner for a specific county. In general, the educational and training requirements you may need are in such subjects as law enforcement, medicine and forensic science.
A medical degree is generally not required to become a coroner, but a few states do have strict requirements in this area. For example, only a certified forensic pathologist can act as coroner in Kansas, Louisiana or Ohio.
What Coroners Do. The job of the coroner is to positively identify the deceased person, to classify the death as a homicide, suicide, accident, natural death or undetermined, and to specify the immediate cause of death such as asphyxia.
Coroners are county government officials responsible for determining the cause of death in circumstances requiring a coroner's investigation such as a homicide or an accident.
Education Requirements. Coroner training will require some type of formal education. This includes a bachelor’s degree in a field such as criminology, anatomy, medicine, forensic science, experimental pathology, pathology, physiology, or pre-medicine.