The latest fad diet may have you howling on a full or new moon. The werewolf diet, also known as the lunar diet, reportedly followed by A-list celebrities Madonna and Demi Moore, helps dieters shed 6 lbs. in just 24 hours on a full or new moon, Yahoo Entertainment Singapore reported.
Meet the Werewolf Diet, reportedly popular among stars such as Demi Moore and Madonna. Also known as the Lunar Diet, it’s true to what its names suggest, and revolves around the cycles of the moon. The plan aims to cleanse your body of toxins and promises you’ll lose up to 6 pounds of water weight a day.
The basic version of the Werewolf Diet claims to help followers lose up to six pounds in 24 hours when there is a new or full moon. This is because, in addition to impacting the rise and fall of sea level, the moon’s gravitational pull also affects the water in the human body, according to MoonConnection.com.
Howling at the moon is not a required part of the Werewolf Diet. If you’re looking to lose weight fast, you may want to tap into your inner lycanthrope. Or so say fans of the Werewolf Diet.. The plan, also known as the Lunar Diet or Moon Diet, doesn’t require you to eat raw meat or howl at the moon. Instead, it ties juice cleanses and fasts with the moon’s cycle.
Followers of the werewolf diet--also dubbed the lunar diet--undergo a fasting period of 24 hours during each new or full moon. Liquids such as juice are allowed, but solid food is not. Supposedly, you can lose up to six pounds in 24 hours, as long as you stop eating at the very moment the moon phase begins.
Demi Moore and Madonna are fans of the Werewolf Diet, which claims you can lose up to six pounds in 24 hours. The theory states that the same pressure that the moon exerts on the ocean is exerted on the water in your body, causing your body to release even more water and toxins than usual.
The werewolf diet—also known as the moon diet or lunar diet —may help you lose two to six pounds in a single 24-hour period and offers additional dieting advice that follows the phases of the moon.