A smartphone or smart phone is a mobile phone with an advanced mobile operating system which combines features of a personal computer operating system with other features useful for mobile or handheld use. They typically combine the features of a cell phone with those of other popular mobile devices, such as personal digital assistant (PDA), media player and GPS navigation unit. Most smartphones can access the Internet, have a touchscreen user interface, can run third-party apps, music players and are camera phones.
1992 -- The first smartphone was invented by IBM in 1992. It was nicknamed, Simon, and had a plethora of features including a calendar, address book, calculator, email service, and even a touch screen. At $899.00, though, most people could not afford it. The first car was invented in the year of 1769 by a French man named Nicolas Joseph Cugnot, who build it under his instructions in the Paris Arsenal by Mechanic Brezin. The ca … r only had 3 wheels and was used to carry heavy artilary during war.
The first smartphone was developed by IBM and BellSouth, which came out to the public in 1993. Althought basic compared to today’s standards “Simon” had a touch screen that was capable of accessing email and sending faxes. Smartphones are major extensions on normal cellphones. Alexander Graham Bell is the inventor of the telephone. In 1878 he made the first phone call. Telephones have not only come a long way, but may one day be completely obsolete.
History of the Smartphone. Alexander Graham Bell is the inventor of the telephone. In 1878 he made the first phone call. Telephones have not only come a long way, but may one day be completely obsolete. Motorola introduced some of the first cellphones to the public during the 1980s
The first mobile phone to incorporate PDA features was an IBM prototype developed in 1992 and demonstrated that year at the COMDEX computer industry trade show. The prototype demonstrated PDA features as well as other visionary apps like maps, stocks and news incorporated with a cellular phone. They typically combine the features of a cell phone with those of other popular mobile devices, such as personal digital assistant (PDA), media player and GPS navigation unit. Most smartphones can access the Internet, have a touchscreen user interface, can run third-party apps, music players and are camera phones.
1992 - The first smartphone was invented by IBM in 1992. It was nicknamed, Simon, and had a plethora of features including a calendar, address book, calculator, email servic … e, and even a touch screen. At $899.00, though, most people could not afford it. The first car was invented in the year of 1769 by a French man named Nicolas Joseph Cugnot, who build it under his instructions in the Paris Arsenal by Mechanic Brezin. The ca … r only had 3 wheels and was used to carry heavy artilary during war.