Chinatown is most visited for its restaurants and the annual Chinese New Year parade. Location: Chinatown is located east of downtown Washington, DC between H and I Streets and 5th and 8th Streets, NW. The closest Metro Station is Gallery Place/Chinatown. Washington, DC's Chinatown is a small historic neighborhood with approximately 20 Chinese and Asian restaurants and a handful of other small businesses. The Friendship Arch, a traditional Chinese gate, prominently marks the neighborhood at H and 7th Streets.
If you're driving, look for the large Metro signs to direct you to stations. Look for tall brown columns with a large M identifying the station entrances. Colored stripes around the column show which lines serve the station. 1  View the Metrorail System Map. The system is the second busiest in the United States, serving 91 stations in Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia. The Metrorail system has six color-coded rail lines: Red, Orange, Silver, Blue, Yellow, and Green.
The area around Union Station is pretty dicey during the day, and I can imagine it would be even more so at that hour. There is a parking lot at 10th and H, where the old convention center used to be, but I don't know if it's overnight. You might want to check. Tomorrow night I'm catching a bus on 7th and H St that leaves at 3:30am. The only overnight parking on weekdays I can find for that time would be at Union Station (if anyone knows somewhere closer that would be even better). Google maps says its about a 20 minute walk, which is fine, but how safe of an area is...
Gallery Place (also known as Gallery Place–Chinatown) is a Washington Metro station in Washington, D.C. , on the Green, Red and Yellow Lines. It is a transfer station between the Red Line on the upper level and the Green/Yellow Lines on the lower level. The station's only street elevator is north of F Street on the west side of 7th Street. The station, which is beneath the Verizon Center, serves that arena and the surrounding Chinatown and Penn Quarter neighborhoods in downtown Washington.
Metrorail provides safe, clean, reliable transit service for more than 700,000 customers a day throughout the Washington, DC area. The system is the second busiest in the United States, serving 91 stations in Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia. The Metrorail system has six color-coded rail lines: Red, Orange, Silver, Blue, Yellow, and Green.
The area between Union Station and Chinatown is perfectly safe. It gets a little dicey north of there, but even that I would not say is unsafe for a pair of adults. Frankly, you have little to worry about from a safety standpoint. Tomorrow night I'm catching a bus on 7th and H St that leaves at 3:30am. The only overnight parking on weekdays I can find for that time would be at Union Station (if anyone knows somewhere closer that would be even better). Google maps says its about a 20 minute walk, which is fine, but how safe of an area is...
Georgetown. Home to trendy shopping, a gorgeous waterfront and the Hoyas; Georgetown is a hopping place for night life in Washington, DC. Students, residents and visitors come together in this affluent playground. No metro access and decent side street/garage parking means get a cab or a DD. Home to trendy shopping, a gorgeous waterfront and the Hoyas; Georgetown is a hopping place for night life in Washington, DC. Students, residents and visitors come together in this affluent playground
We're only a few minutes walk from Chinatown metro station and Union station, where all the buses coming into DC stop. From here you can easily get to the White House, the Convention Centre, Chinatown, the Capitol, Library of Congress, the Smithsonian Institute and the Supreme Court. We're only five minutes'
Chinatown has really turned it around in the last 20 years. With the development of the Verizon Center, the surrounding blocks are now filled with clubs, bars, restaurants and shopping. The area is easy to access thanks to the Gallery Place-Chinatown metro station. 