Things Affecting ADH. Alcohol can decrease the amount of ADH being produced resulting in a greater volume of more dilute urine being produced. This can lead to dehydration. Ecstacy has the opposite effect, that is, Ecstacy increases the amount of ADH which reduces the amount of urine produced. Both alcohol and Ecstacy interfere with the normal regulation of water in the body and may have harmful long-term effects on the body.
Investigate the effect of temperature on dehydrogenase activity in yeast. 4 star(s). I will be aiming to find out the rate of the reaction and see the changes in temperature over time using this information. Hypothesis Enzymes are chemicals that increase in activity as the temperature increases.
Temperature Effects. Like most chemical reactions, the rate of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction increases as the temperature is raised. A ten degree Centigrade rise in temperature will increase the activity of most enzymes by 50 to 100%. Variations in reaction temperature as small as 1 or 2 degrees may introduce changes of 10 to 20% in the results.
Aim: The aim of this experiment is to show the relationship between temperature and the rate of activity of dehydrogenase enzymes in two different yeast types ('Bakers' and 'Brewers'). We can then compare the results of the two different types of yeast to see which type is more affected by changes in temperature.
The hypothalamus sends a message to the pituitary, which releases ADH. This travels in the blood to the kidneys, which save more water, so that the urine becomes less in volume and more concentrated. The level of water in the blood can then begin to rise as water is ingested and produced by the process of respiration.
INPUT VARIABLE The temperature of the TTC solution and yeast suspension. The yeast to be used ('bakers' and 'brewers') I am going to change the temperature to determine what sort of effect it has on the activity of dehydrogenase enzymes in yeast cells.
There are many other parameters that influence ADH activity, including temperature 4 (Arrhenius equation), ionic strength (add NaCl, KCl, KNO 3, etc.), [NAD + ], [enzyme], and different types of alcohol substrates. Devise and carry out experiments to study the influence of two of these parameters on ADH activity.