Copper (II) sulfate, also known as cupric sulfate or copper sulphate, is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula Cu SO4. When water is then added to the anhydrous compound, it turns back into the pentahydrate form, regaining its blue color, and is known as blue vitriol. Copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate can easily be produced by crystallization from solution as copper(II) sulfate is quite hygroscopic.
Copper sulfate is produced industrially by treating copper metal with hot concentrated sulfuric acid or its oxides with dilute sulfuric acid. For laboratory use, copper sulfate is usually purchased. When water is then added to the anhydrous compound, it turns back into the pentahydrate form, regaining its blue color, and is known as blue vitriol. Copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate can easily be produced by crystallization from solution as copper(II) sulfate is quite hygroscopic.
Reaction of Zinc and Copper(II) Ion. Copper metal plates out on a strip of zinc metal when it is immersed in a solution of 0.1 M aqueous copper(II) sulfate solution. 1 The blue color of the copper sulfate solution is due to the presence of the hexaaquacopper(II) ion. 2  The solution becomes lighter in color as copper ion in the solution is replaced by zinc ion.
The elements in copper sulphate are copper, sulphur and oxygen. Copper sulphate is a compound, made up of three elements. 1 Colored Crystals You can Make at Home You encounter crystals, like salt and sugar, almost every day of your life. 2  While these crystals are not colorful, there are a number of colored crystals that occur in nature…. 3  How to Make a Copper Sulfate Solution Copper sulfate is a reagent used in many applications.
Commercial copper sulfate is usually about 98% pure copper sulfate, and may contain traces of water. Anhydrous Copper sulfate is 39.81 percent copper and 60.19 percent sulfate by mass, and in its blue, hydrous form, it is 25.47% copper, 38.47% sulfate (12.82% sulfur) and 36.06% water by mass. When water is then added to the anhydrous compound, it turns back into the pentahydrate form, regaining its blue color, and is known as blue vitriol. Copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate can easily be produced by crystallization from solution as copper(II) sulfate is quite hygroscopic.
Hydrated copper sulphate or CuSO4.5H2O is a hydrated salt. It contains the water of crystallisation molecules(water molecules are attached to it). It is also known as blue vit … riol because of its blue colour. It is a white anhydrous powder and can be produced on heating hydrated copper sulphate. It is actually the anhydrous form of hydrated copper sulphate. 4 people found this useful. 1  How Glucosamine Sulphate Heals the Body Glucosamine sulphate is a chemical that occurs naturally in the human body.
Copper (II) sulfate exothermically dissolves in water to give the aquo complex [Cu(H 2 O) 6 ] 2+ , which has octahedral molecular geometry and is paramagnetic. Other names for copper(II) sulfate are blue vitriol and bluestone. When water is then added to the anhydrous compound, it turns back into the pentahydrate form, regaining its blue color, and is known as blue vitriol. Copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate can easily be produced by crystallization from solution as copper(II) sulfate is quite hygroscopic.
On the other hand copper sulphate or CuSO4 is an anhydrous salt i.e. there are no water of crystallisation molecules. It is a white anhydrous powder and can be produced on heating hydrated copper sulphate. It is actually the anhydrous form of hydrated copper sulphate. 4 people found this useful. 1  How Glucosamine Sulphate Heals the Body Glucosamine sulphate is a chemical that occurs naturally in the human body.
1 How to Make a Copper Sulfate Solution Copper sulfate is a reagent used in many applications. 2  It is used in aquariums to kill algae. 3  It is also used as a solution for copper plating. 4  Distilled water is used as a s…. 5  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 1 Colored Crystals You can Make at Home You encounter crystals, like salt and sugar, almost every day of your life. 2  While these crystals are not colorful, there are a number of colored crystals that occur in nature…. 3 
copper sulphate pentahydrate is known by the following synonyms: 1  copper sulphate pentahydrate. 2  copper(II) sulphate 5-water. 3  Roman vitriol. 4  Salzburg vitriol. 5  blue vitriol. 6  copper sulfate 5-water. 7  copper sulfate pentahydrate. 8  copper sulphate 5-water. 9  copper(II) sulfate 5-water. 