While a building inspection report should identify any visual damage that may have been caused by termites, it usually won't include the existence of termites or other timber destroying pests. It can be advisable to get a separate pest inspection report done before you buy a property.
There are three good reasons why you should get a building inspection report done before you buy a property: 1  so you will know in advance what the problems are. 2  so you can use the information to try and negotiate a lower price for the property i.e. you may have to pay to repair some of the problems.
What you need to know about building Inspections. Knowing as much as you can about the condition of the property before you buy will help you avoid problems and extra costs down the track. The best way of doing this is to get a pre-purchase property inspection report-commonly known as a building inspection.
A building inspection is just one check you can get done before buying a property. Sometimes referred to as a ‘standard property report’, a pre–purchase property inspection report (subsequently referred to as a ‘building inspection report’) is a written account of the property’s condition.
As the name says, this building inspection report is the one you get before you buy a property. Sometimes referred to as a 'standard property report', a pre-purchase property inspection report is a written account of the condition of
Why Get Permits & Inspections. There are many important reasons to obtain the required building permit(s) and to obtain the required inspections for your construction project. Your home or business is an investment.
You should always get a home inspection and with new construction I advise getting two inspections if possible, one before the sheetrock goes up and the second when the home is complete.
Benefits of getting a building inspection report done before buying a property are: 1  knowing in advance what the problems are. 2  using the information to negotiate a lower price for the property ie. 3  gaining specialist advice about any major problems and how they will affect the property over time.
A building inspection report should include enough information for you to be aware of the property's condition and identify any significant problems. However, a standard building inspection report is generally a visual inspection only and may not identify major structural defects or other hidden problems.
A pre-purchase building inspection will reveal any areas of the home that may be deemed unsafe, in particular, the presence of asbestos and other dangerous materials, missing or loose balustrades and cracks in walls.