President Roosevelt issued the most executive orders, according to records at the National Archives. He issued 3,728 orders between 1933 and 1945, as the country dealt with the Great Depression and World War II. President Truman issued a robust 896 executive orders over almost eight years in office. President Obama has issued 184 orders so far in his presidency. His predecessor, President George W. Bush, issued 291 orders over eight years, while President Bill Clinton had 364 executive orders during his two terms in office.
USA Today notes that President Obama has issued the most executive memos of any president; and when combined with executive orders, he has issued the most executive actions of any president since Jimmy Carter: Photo: USA Today. Photo: USA Today. 
According to the American Presidency Project at the University of California, Santa Barbara, President Obama ranks second from the bottom to every other president after World War II. At 168, Obama has issued two more executive orders than George H.W. Bush. President John F. Kennedy issued 214, George W. Bush issued 291, Bill Clinton signed 364, and Ronald Reagan had 381. The presidents with the highest numbers were Dwight Eisenhower with 484 and Harry S. Truman with 907. President Obama has been under fire from some Republicans for pledging to exercise his executive authority, but he has actually issued far less executive orders than his predecessors in the last 50 years.
In the past 100 years, Democrats have used them more than Republicans. Here’s every president’s tally per year that he served in office. Of the executive orders since 1956 that addressed immigration, the most wide-reaching was President George H.W. Bush’s Family Fairness plan. As Danny Vinik said at the New Republic, conservatives are noting that Bush’s action expanded upon congressional intent, but Obama’s would be in defiance of it. 
While Democratic presidents have relied on executive orders more frequently than Republicans over the last 100 years, Obama’s average executive orders per year in office fall nearly 3.3 points below George W. Bush, 8.4 below George H.W. Bush and roughly 14.5 points below Ronald Reagan. 
(Now well into the second year of his second term, President Obama has issued a total of 168 executive orders overall.) Moreover, compared to President Obama's predecessors in the White House, this is not an unusually large number of orders for a modern president: President. issued. orders during his eight years in office, while President Bill Clinton issued 364 such orders over the same span of time. The listing of numbers of executive orders issued during the terms of modern presidents included in one of the examples above also bears no resemblance to reality.
First of all, the number of executive orders issued by President Obama is grossly exaggerated here. Through his first term (i.e., the first four years of his presidency), Barack Obama issued 147 executive orders, not 923. orders during his eight years in office, while President Bill Clinton issued 364 such orders over the same span of time. The listing of numbers of executive orders issued during the terms of modern presidents included in one of the examples above also bears no resemblance to reality.
By Clare Kim and Mina Liu. President Obama has been under fire from some Republicans for pledging to exercise his executive authority, but he has actually issued far less executive orders than his predecessors in the last 50 years.
The presidents who used orders and proclamations the most, per year, were Roosevelt, Herbert Hoover and Woodrow Wilson. Moreover, President Obama has issued the fewest executive orders per year, at 33.27 annually, since President Grover Cleveland’s first term in the White House. President Truman issued a robust 896 executive orders over almost eight years in office. President Obama has issued 184 orders so far in his presidency. His predecessor, President George W. Bush, issued 291 orders over eight years, while President Bill Clinton had 364 executive orders during his two term
Claim: President Obama has issued a whopping 923 executive orders, many of which give the government unprecedented power to take over control of civilian institutions. orders during his eight years in office, while President Bill Clinton issued 364 such orders over the same span of time. The listing of numbers of executive orders issued during the terms of modern presidents included in one of the examples above also bears no resemblance to reality.