After downscalin, you can easily get your MP4 files and Kindle Fire HD to play nicely. Below I will take Brorsoft Video Converter (available for Windows or for Mac users), a powerful high-quality video converter, splitter, player and editor, for example. 
Add AVI files to AVI to Kindle Fire Video Converter for Mac. Directly drag & drop your AVI files to the Mac app, or head to File menu then choose Add Files to import your files for converting. This Media Converter supports batch conversion, so you can add several files at one time. It saves your time and energy. Other formats (like AVI, XviD, MKV etc) it refused to acknowledge, so you couldn't directly watch and play AVI videos or movies on the Amazon Kindle Fire. If you want to play AVI videos on your Kindle Fire, you will need convert them to work properly on the Kindle Fire.
Xvid is a good video format with good quality and extra small size and is open, these may be the reason why we won't give it up and now strongly require to play AVI movies on Kindle Fire HD, but you need to accept the truth that Kindle Fire HD cannot support XVID files natively. Follow the steps below and you will find it easy to enjoy HD AVI movies with Kindle Fire HD. Tutorial on converting XVID/AVI to Kindle Fire HD. Step 1: Once run the XVID to MP4 program, click the add button to import your AVI movie files. Step 3: This program allows you clicking “Settings” button to adjust audio and video parameters to optimize the output file qualit
You can enjoy and play your AVI videos on your Kindle Fire now. What's more, if you want your videos to be more amazing, you can set video resolution, bite rate, codec and frame rate to get perfect output videos, as well as edit the AVI video files by trimming, cropping and adding special effects and watermarks. Other formats (like AVI, XviD, MKV etc) it refused to acknowledge, so you couldn't directly watch and play AVI videos or movies on the Amazon Kindle Fire. If you want to play AVI videos on your Kindle Fire, you will need convert them to work properly on the Kindle Fire.
Both Kindle Fire and Kindle Fire HD can only play MP4, 3GP and VP8 (.webm). That is, if we try to play other video formats like AVI, Xvid, DivX, WMV, MKV, FLV, MOV, M4V, MXF, WTV, MPG, ASF and etc on Kindle Fire (HD), it will ends in fail. Sometime, we even encounter difficulty in play MP4 on Kindle Fire. Just google search Step by Step Guide on How to Convert Video to Play AVI, WMV, MKV, MP4, MOV, FLV, and WMA on Kindle Fire HD, Kindle Fire with Bigasoft Total Video Converter. You will find a simple way. Quick Reply Reply.
What I can do is to download a mkv player for Kindle Fire HD 6 or convert MKV to MP4. Here is a simple guide for Kindle Fire HD 6, from which you can learn how to play MKV, AVI, VOB on Kindle Fire HD 6 without any incompatible issues. Just google search Step by Step Guide on How to Convert Video to Play AVI, WMV, MKV, MP4, MOV, FLV, and WMA on Kindle Fire HD, Kindle Fire with Bigasoft Total Video Converter. You will find a simple way. Quick Reply Reply.
Let's test and verify if we can make Kindle Fire play AVI. To be prepared, we need two video files, one is 1080p AVI, and another is in 1080p Divx format. First, transport AVI videos to Kindle Fire and open the video player in it. We can find it possible to play HD AVI on Kindle Fire, but it comes with choppy when we drag the timeline to get fast forward/backward. Step 2. Select format and set destination folder. Select the output format you want in the format menu after click the format bar. To play the AVI/Divx video with Kindle Fire, you can select MP4 in Common format. Or find the preset for your Kindle Fire by choosing.
That's all the steps of converting AVI to Kindle Fire MP4 format and transferring AVI to Kindle Fire. Video Converter Ultimate is very affordable and it helps you rip DVD and convert AVI, WMV, MKV, FLV, 3GP, RMVB, etc. to Kindle Fire compatible format, then you can enjoy any DVD and video files as you wish. Kindle Fire supports MP4, VP5 video formats. Tips: If you wanna edit your video files before conversion, just select a DVD title and click the Edit video button. Step 3: Click the  Start  button to start convert