Question: What does the term Ebenezer mean in the Bible?. Answer: Most of us are familiar with the name Ebenezer because of the character Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickens s novella A Christmas Carol. Ebenezer means stone of help. From then on, every time an Israelite saw the stone erected by Samuel, he would have a tangible reminder of the Lord s power and protection. The stone of help marked the spot where the enemy had been routed and God s promise to bless His repentant people had been honored.
Ebenezer /ebe-nez-er/ [4 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Ebenezer is stone of help. Biblical: name of a memorial stone set up by the prophet Samuel to mark a critical battle and victory in Jewish history. First used as a given name by the Puritans in the 17th century. Literary: Ebenezer Scrooge is a character in Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol. Kreatif forms: Ebeneer, Ebennezer. Ebenezer is an unusual given name for men but a somewhat prominent last name for both adults and children (#147095 out of 150436, Top 98%). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted analysis of the usage of the boy name Ebenezer and corresponding names.
[ 4 syll. e-be-ne-zer, eb-enez-er ] The baby boy name Ebenezer is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced in English as ehB-ah-N IY-ZahR †. Ebenezer is used predominantly in the English language and its origin is Hebrew. A biblical name, it is from the elements 'eben' meaning stone; 'ezer' help; 'ebenhaezer' stone of help. The first name is derived from a place name in the Bible. The contractions Eb and Eben (used in Welsh too), the diminutive form Ebbie, and the variant spelling Ebeneezer are other English forms. Ebenezer is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. A baby name that sounds like Ebenezer is the name Ebeneezer (English).
The Meaning of “Ebenezer”. In English, Ebenezer is a man’s name. Today it is quite uncommon, apart from its association with A Christmas Carol. In the time of Charles Dickens, men were called Ebenezer, though I’m not able to judge how common the name was. Advertisement. The name “Ebenezer” was not original to the English language. In fact, it was an anglicized version of a Hebrew name, which is itself composed of two Hebrew words. In 1 Samuel 4:1, for example, the Israelities camped at a place called Ebenezer.
The name Ebenezer is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Ebenezer is: Rock or stone of help. Famous bearer: the Old Testament Samuel gave the name Ebenezer to a stone set up in recognition of God's assistance in defeating the Philistines; miserly Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickens' novel 'A Chnsitmas Carol'. SoulUrge Number: 2
Means stone of help in Hebrew. This was the name of a monument erected by Samuel in the Old Testament. Charles Dickens used it for the miserly character Ebenezer Scrooge in his novel 'A Christmas Carol' (1843). Related Names. 
Meaning of Ebenezer. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Ebenezer means-Rock or stone of help. Famous bearer: the Old Testament Samuel gave the name Ebenezer to a stone set up in recognition of Gods assistance in defeating the Philistines; miserly Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickens novel A Chnsitmas Carol.. Other origins for the name Ebenezer include-Hebrew, Israeli.The name Ebenezer is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Rock or stone of help. Famous bearer: the Old Testament Samuel gave the name Ebenezer to a stone set up in recognition of Gods assistance in defeating the Philistines; miserly Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickens novel A Chnsitmas Carol. Origin-Hebrew. Alternate Origins-Israeli