List of Italian baby names, Italian baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Italian names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Italian baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Raf in Italian origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. 
You can find out when most of the Raff families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Raff birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Rafe is an English, Scandinavian and German given name for a male, used in many countries across the world but most popular in English-speaking countries. It is of Old Norse origin (meaning counsel of the wolf or wise wolf), derived from the Old Norse Raðulfr (rað counsel + ulfr wolf) through Old English Raedwulf. Rædwulf it can be Of irish (origin meaning). strong
Rafe has 1 variant: Rafer. Related boy name: Rafael. Rafe has 19 more related forms via Ralph, Raphael: Falito, Rafael ▲ , Rafaelle, Rafaello, Rafaelo, Rafal, Rafel, Rafello, Raff, Raffael, Raffaello, Ralf, Raoul, Raphaello, Raphello, Raul ▲ , Ravel, Rolf and Rolph. Rafe is an uncommonly occurring first name for men. Rafe is an equivalently uncommon surname too for both adults and children.
Raff is an uncommon first name for males but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#16480 out of 150436, Top 11%). (2000 U.S. Census). Ralph, Raoul, Raul (#423 last year) and Rolf are the prominent alternative forms of Raff (not in Top 1000) ranked in the Top 1000. Variants like Rafe are seldom used. Usage of these boy names was at its most widespread during the years 1950-1959 (usage of 0.4533%) and is now much lower (usage 0.1443%, 68.2% less), with the form Ralph becoming less stylish. Raul (#423) is the most trendy boy name in this list. Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of Raff and associated names.
Rafe /rafe/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced rayf. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Rafe is counsel of the wolf. From Raedwulf. Rafe is an uncommonly occurring first name for men. Rafe is an equivalently uncommon surname too for both adults and children.
Raff /raff/ [1 syll.] as a name for boys is of Old English origin, and the meaning of the name Raff is wolf counsel. Raff is a version of Ralph (Old English) with the suffix-ff. Kreatif forms: Raffdi, Raffky, Raffve. Usage of these boy names was at its most widespread during the years 1950-1959 (usage of 0.4533%) and is now much lower (usage 0.1443%, 68.2% less), with the form Ralph becoming less stylish. Raul (#423) is the most trendy boy name in this list. Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of Raff and associated names.
Click on a place to view Raff immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Raff families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Raff birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.