1 coat a baking sheet with cooking spray or non stick foil. 2  In a small bowl, whisk together the mayonnaise, mustard, parsley and orange zest. 3  Sprinkle the salmon with the salt and pepper. 1 Sprinkle the salmon with the salt and pepper. 2  Coat fish fillet with some of the mayonnaose mixture and set on the foiled lined baking sheet. 3  Roast until the salmon flakes easily with a fork, 10 to 12 minutes.
1 In a bowl mix/whisk the melted butter, mayonnaise, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, paprika and garlic powder; add to the glass baking dish. 2  Add in the salmon steaks; turn to coat well and evenly in the butter/mayo mixture. 3  Bake for about 20-22 minutes, or until the fish flakes with a fork. 1 Rinse the salmon steaks and pat dry. 2  In a bowl mix/whisk the melted butter, mayonnaise, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, paprika and garlic powder; add to the glass baking dish. 3  Add in the salmon steaks; turn to coat well and evenly in the butter/mayo mixture.
1 At this point, do not turn the salmon. 2  Instead, transfer the whole skillet to the preheated oven. 3  Let the salmon continue roasting in the oven for another 6-10 minutes. 4  How long it cooks will depend on the thickness of the fillets and desired doneness-- some people like salmon a little on the rare side. 1 Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. 2  If you have time, let the salmon come to room temperature, it will cook faster and more evenly that way (but don't stress, when I'm in a hurry I do it straight from the fridge). 3  Sprinkle salmon fillets generously with salt and pepper.
1 Preheat the oven to 500*F. 2  coat a baking sheet with cooking spray or non stick foil. 3  In a small bowl, whisk together the mayonnaise, mustard, parsley and orange zest. 4  Sprinkle the salmon with the salt and pepper. 5  Coat fish fillet with some of the mayonnaose mixture and set on the foiled lined baking sheet. 1 Sprinkle the salmon with the salt and pepper. 2  Coat fish fillet with some of the mayonnaose mixture and set on the foiled lined baking sheet. 3  Roast until the salmon flakes easily with a fork, 10 to 12 minutes.
1 In a small bowl, whisk together the mayonnaise, mustard, parsley and orange zest. 2  Sprinkle the salmon with the salt and pepper. 3  Coat fish fillet with some of the mayonnaose mixture and set on the foiled lined baking sheet. 4  Roast until the salmon flakes easily with a fork, 10 to 12 minutes. 1 Sprinkle the salmon with the salt and pepper. 2  Coat fish fillet with some of the mayonnaose mixture and set on the foiled lined baking sheet. 3
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. 2  Butter an 8 x 8-inch baking. 3  Rinse the salmon steaks and pat dry. 4  In a bowl mix/whisk the melted butter, mayonnaise, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, paprika and garlic powder; add to the glass baking dish. 1 Rinse the salmon steaks and pat dry. 2  In a bowl mix/whisk the melted butter, mayonnaise, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, paprika and garlic powder; add to the glass baking dish. 3  Add in the salmon steaks; turn to coat well and evenly in the butter/mayo mixture.
1 Butter an 8 x 8-inch baking. 2  Rinse the salmon steaks and pat dry. 3  In a bowl mix/whisk the melted butter, mayonnaise, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, paprika and garlic powder; add to the glass baking dish. 4  Add in the salmon steaks; turn to coat well and evenly in the butter/mayo mixture. 1 Rinse the salmon steaks and pat dry. 2  In a bowl mix/whisk the melted butter, mayonnaise, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, paprika and garlic powder; add to the glass baking dish. 3  Add in the salmon steaks; turn to coat well and evenly in the butter/mayo mixture.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Sprinkle salmon with 2 teaspoons olive oil, salt, and pepper. Stir the tomatoes, shallots, 2 tablespoons of oil, lemon juice, oregano, thyme, salt and pepper in a medium bowl to blend. Place a salmon fillet, oiled side down, atop a sheet of foil. Wrap the ends of the foil to form a spiral shape.