(by Amara Graps). Sunspots are magnetic in nature. They are the places (active regions) where the Sun's magnetic field rises up from below the Sun's surface and those magnetic regions poke through. Sunspots are darker than the surrounding areas because they are expending less energy and have a lower temperature. Sunspots often have poles (polarity) like the south and north poles of magnets. Sunspots are formed continuously as the Sun's magnetic field actively moves through the Sun. The sunspots have lifetimes of days or perhaps one week or a few weeks. Here is one scenario that some scientists think explains how sunspots form. Imagine the magnetic field on the Sun as loops like rubber bands that wrap around the Sun, with one end attached to the south pole and the other end attached to the north pole
The Solar Cycle. The sunspot cycle, a regular increase and decrease in the number of spots on the sun, is an 11-year cycle where there's an increase in the average number of sunspots to a sunspot maximum and then a decrease to a sunspot minimum before rising to a maximum again. This cycle is related to the magnetic polarities of sunspot groups. A group of sunspots moves with the sun's rotation, and the sunspots in front, like a train's engine, are the preceding members, while those moving behind them, like the railcars, are the following members.
Sunspots give off magnetic rays that affect terrestrial life. Then are just dark patches on the sun's surface that appear periodically. They are not as hot as other parts on the sun though. Sunspots are formed because regions of the Sun's surface getting cooler, this is caused by magnetic field loops stopping the convection that brings heat to the solar surface.
12/'97. Sunspot cycle. Sunspots have a diameter of about 37,000 km and appear as dark spots within the photosphere, the outermost layer of the Sun. The photosphere is about 400 km deep, and provides most of our solar radiation. The layer is about 6,000 degrees Kelvin at the inner boundary and 4,200 K on the outside. The temperature within sunspots is about 4,600 K. The number of sunspots peaks every 11.1 years. There is a strong radial magnetic field within a sunspot, as implied in the picture, and the direction of the field reverses in alternate years within the leading sunspots of a group. So the true sunspot cycle is 22.2 years.
Large sunspots are as big as the Earth and contain magnetic fields that are thousands of times stronger than the Earth’s magnetic field. Sunspots occasionally grow large enough to be seen with the naked eye through fog or haze, or sometimes at sunrise or sunset, when the sun’s usual brightness is heavily dimmed. 
Best Answer: Sunspots don't really do anything. They are magnetic storms on the Sun, cooler areas on the Sun's surface. They have absolutely no effect of the Earth's weather. Solar flares related to them do affect the visibility of aurora and, in extreme cases, interfere with telecommunications. Sunspots are actually the harbingers of magnetic activity on the Sun which can accelerate particles near the Sun to high energies, and eject them during flare events and Coronal Mass Ejections.
Sunspots are temporary phenomena on the photosphere of the Sun that appear visibly as dark spots compared to surrounding regions. They correspond to concentrations of magnetic field flux that inhibit convection and result in reduced surface temperature compared to the surrounding photosphere. Individual sunspots may endure anywhere from a few days to a few months, but eventually decay. Sunspots expand and contract as they move across the surface of the Sun with a size ranging from 16 kilometers (10 mi) to 160,000 kilometers (100,000 mi) in diameter. The larger variety are visible from Earth without the aid of a telescop
Sunspots are caused by magnetic activity on the surface of the sun.  These are usually temporary and are viewed as dark compared to the  areas surrounding the spot. Sunspots are formed because regions of the Sun's surface getting cooler, this is caused by magnetic field loops stopping the convection that brings heat to the solar surface.
Sunspots appear as dark areas on the sun that are cooler then the  surrounding areas. They are caused by increased magnetic activity.  Sunspot activity is describing increas … ed sunspots on the suns  surface. Sunspots are formed because regions of the Sun's surface getting cooler, this is caused by magnetic field loops stopping the convection that brings heat to the solar surface.