A CD writer is a common drive included on today's computers. It allows you to read and write CD-ROM disks, which is advantageous for keeping backups of your files, additional computer storage, and making music CDs. Many different companies make CD writers, but they work in the same way. How It Works. A CD writer is not very different from a standard CD-ROM drive. When you insert the disk, the varying light reflecting off the pits in the disk tell the sensors the type of information contained on the disk. The only difference with a CD writer is that you can insert special disks made with light-sensitive dye
The main part of a CD writer is the laser. This consists of a laser lens, a tracking mechanism, and photodiodes. This is sometimes referred to as a drive head. The disk drive is where you put the disk in the drive, and it has a motor to spin it around. How It Works. A CD writer is not very different from a standard CD-ROM drive. When you insert the disk, the varying light reflecting off the pits in the disk tell the sensors the type of information contained on the disk. The only difference with a CD writer is that you can insert special disks made with light-sensitive dye
CD-RW (Compact Disc-ReWritable) is a digital optical disc storage format. A CD-RW disc is a compact disc that can be written, read arbitrarily many times, erased and written again. The technology was introduced in 1997. CD-RW discs (CD-RWs) require readers that have more sensitive laser optics than plain CDs. Consequently, CD-RWs cannot be read in many CD readers built prior to the introduction of CD-RW. CD-ROM drives that bear a MultiRead certification claim compatibility. CD-RW discs need to be blanked before reuse.
Reading CDs. An external writable CD drive, also called a CD burner, lets you take music or data files from your computer and make your own CDs. The advent of CD burners marked a huge cultural shift. The technology made it feasible for the average person to gather songs and make their own CDs.
vs. SecurActive Performance Vision. A CD burner is the informal name for a CD recorder, a device that can record data to a compact disc. CD-Recordable (CD-R) and CD-Rewritable (CD-RW) are the two most common types of drives that can write CDs, either once (in the case of CD-R) or repeatedly (in the case of CD-RW). With packet writing software and a compatible CD-R or CD-RW drive, it is possible to save data to a CD-R in the same way as one can save it to a floppy disk, although-since each part of the disk can only be written once-it is not possible to delete files and then reuse the space.
A feature of many CD-R drives, called multisession recording, enables you to keep adding data to a CD-ROM over time. This is extremely important if you want to use the CD-R drive to create backup CD-ROMs. To create CD-ROMs and audio CDs, you'll need not only a CD-R drive, but also a CD-R software package. Often, it is the software package, not the drive itself, that determines how easy or difficult it is to create CD-ROMs. CD-R drives can also read CD-ROMs and play audio CDs. PREVIOUSCD-Plus. 
Top 10 facts about the world. A CD burner, more formally a CD-R drive, is a device used to write data to a recordable compact disc. Though initially sold for hundreds of dollars when they were introduced in the mid-90s, used models can now be found quite inexpensively. Compact disc burners, used to place data on a recordable disc, have recently become very inexpensive. Jewel cases may be used to prevent scratching of compact discs that have been burned using a CD burner.
Most modern laptops can write data onto compact discs. Compact disc burners, used to place data on a recordable disc, have recently become very inexpensive. Jewel cases may be used to prevent scratching of compact discs that have been burned using a CD burner. CD burners might be used to create different music mixe