(Answer #3). This is a great question. Agency is often times a term used in either philosophy and sociology, however it can be used in a literature sense as well. What agency means, is essentially the freedom and capacity to live or act in a defined world. Posted on. (Answer #2). What a great question. The definition of a word is very important in literature. Sometimes, if a reader fails to define a word as the author intended it, the meaning can be lost or the reader can become confused.
Representation is the use of signs that stand in for and take the place of something else. It is through representation that people organize the world and reality through the act of naming its elements. He recognised that literature is a representation of life, yet also believed that representations create worlds of illusion leading one away from the real things . For Plato, representation, like contemporary media, intervenes between the viewer and the real, creating illusions that lead one away from real things.
Mitchell says representation is an extremely elastic notion, which extends all the way from a stone representing a man to a novel representing the day in the life of several Dubliners. The term 'representation' carries a range of meanings and interpretations. He recognised that literature is a representation of life, yet also believed that representations create worlds of illusion leading one away from the real things . For Plato, representation, like contemporary media, intervenes between the viewer and the real, creating illusions that lead one away from real things.
By literary theory we refer not to the meaning of a work of literature but to the theories that reveal what literature can mean. Literary theory is a description of the underlying principles, one might say the tools, by which we attempt to understand literature. All literary interpretation draws on a basis in theory but can serve as a justification for very different kinds of critical activity.
1 simulacrum-In the original sense of the word, it was simply a representation of something, such as an oil painting or marble statue. 2  representational art-Art that seeks to depict the physical appearance of reality; also called objective art and figurative art. 1. the act or an instance of representing or the state of being represented. 2. anything that represents, such as a verbal or pictorial portrait. 3. anything that is represented, such as an image brought clearly to mind. 4. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the principle by which delegates act for a constituency.
representation. n. 1. the act or an instance of representing or the state of being represented. 2. anything that represents, such as a verbal or pictorial portrait. 3. anything that is represented, such as an image brought clearly to mind. 4. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the principle by which delegates act for a constituency.
(March 2010). A literary agent (often synonymous with  publishing agent) is an agent who represents writers and their written works to publishers, theatrical producers, film producers and film studios, and assists in the sale and deal negotiation of the same. A query is an unsolicited proposal for representation, either for a finished work or unfinished work. Various agents request different elements in a query packet, and most agencies list their specific submissions requirement on their Website or in their listing in major directories.
Literary agents most often represent novelists, screenwriters and non-fiction writers. They are paid a fixed percentage (usually twenty percent on foreign sales and ten to fifteen percent for domestic sales) of the proceeds of sales they negotiate on behalf of their clients. A query is an unsolicited proposal for representation, either for a finished work or unfinished work. Various agents request different elements in a query packet, and most agencies list their specific submissions requirement on their Website or in their listing in major directories.
A representation is a type of recording in which the sensory information about a physical object is described in a medium. The degree to which an artistic representation resembles the object it represents is a function of resolution and does not bear on the denotation of the word. He recognised that literature is a representation of life, yet also believed that representations create worlds of illusion leading one away from the real things . For Plato, representation, like contemporary media, intervenes between the viewer and the real, creating illusions that lead one away from real things.