Estimating kitchen backsplash installation time. Actual time to install a kitchen backsplash determined by a number of factors, and accurate number of man-hours for completing the project can be estimated only after analyzing difficulty of work. Additional couple hours will be necessary for grout application and cleaning the job site. But complex backsplash installation with incorporation of different types of tile and creating unique design could be a very time consuming project which might last a few days to complete.
Project size. It is very uncommon that basic installation of 30 square feet marble tile backsplash will last longer than one day. But 8 hours might be insufficient time for a single tile setter to complete installation of 6” x 6” travertine tile and apply grout on over 55 ft 2 backsplash. Additional couple hours will be necessary for grout application and cleaning the job site. But complex backsplash installation with incorporation of different types of tile and creating unique design could be a very time consuming project which might last a few days to complete.
With a proper installation tile backsplash will last for many years. Tile is very long lasting product and it can easily serve its decoration function on a backsplash for 25 – 30 years or more. In majority of cases it won’t be a problem with longevity, but with appearance. Let say in 10 – 15 years you might just want to replace old fashion backsplash with some new and modern product. The prices for getting a new tile backsplash installed will depend on which product you will use and who will perform installation. There is a very huge price range for backsplash tile. Some products might cost as low as $1 s/f and some $20 s/f plus there will be additional cost for tile adhesive and grout if necessary. For the installation of tile backsplash and apply grout prepare to pay $10 - $20
If so you should be able to grout as soon as you're done installing the tile. If you used spacers and have joints 1/8 or larger let the tile set up for about an hour before grouting. Make sure you remove the spacers! If your lines are wider than 1/8 make sure you use sanded or floor grout. Wall grout or unsanded is only for grout lines 1/8 or less. 
This is a video of two homeowners installing a new glass tile backsplash in the kitchen. All items were bought at the local hardware store for about $200.00. This video shows how to install around the light sockets, how to cut the glass, and basically how to do a complete install from start to finish. 
If you are planning to do it yourself it might take longer and everything will depend on your ability to manage the installation of tile. Usually, if you hire a professional installer to tile a kitchen backsplash it shouldn’t take longer than couple of days to complete 30 – 40 s/f of backsplash area. The prices for getting a new tile backsplash installed will depend on which product you will use and who will perform installation. There is a very huge price range for backsplash tile. Some products might cost as low as $1 s/f and some $20 s/f plus there will be additional cost for tile adhesive and grout if necessary. For the installation of tile backsplash and apply grout prepare to pay $10 - $20
On average, an experienced tile setter is able to install 35 – 40 square feet of natural stone or glass mosaic tile set on 12” x 12” mesh for 5 – 6 hours. Additional couple hours will be necessary for grout application and cleaning the job site. But complex backsplash installation with incorporation of different types of tile and creating unique design could be a very time consuming project which might last a few days to complete.
Apply it with a notched trowel sized to your tile. For most wall tiles, the trowel will have 1/4- or 3/8-inch notches. Use the flat side of the trowel to spread the mastic onto the wall, starting at the center mark and working up to the horizontal reference line. 
When tiling a backsplash, you have three simple materials: tile, wall, and the adhesive used to join tile to wall. If you are using a wet adhesive, your project will take several days to complete because the adhesive needs to dry to properly set. http://www.custombuildingproducts.com/TDS/TDS-119.pdf. So, a 14-foot-long wall that is two feet high is 28 square feet. http://buybondera.com/how-to. Use this number to purchase tile mat and tiles, adding five percent to 10 percent for wastage. In this example, you would purchase about 30 square feet of mat and tile.