A sample of banded hornfels, formed by contact metamorphism of sandstones and shales by a granite intrusion. Hornfels (German, meaning hornstone) is called so because of its exceptional toughness and texture both reminiscent of animal horns. The most common hornfels (the biotite hornfels) are dark-brown to black with a somewhat velvety luster owing to the abundance of small crystals of shining black mica.
Hornfels is a tough, fine-grained rock that is made by contact metamorphism where magma bakes and recrystallizes the surrounding rocks. Note how it breaks across the original bedding. Photo Credit: Photo courtesy Fed on Wikimedia Commons. 
Hornfels is a metamorphic rock formed by the contact between mudstone / shale, or other clay-rich rock, and a hot igneous body, and represents a heat-altered equivalent of the … original rock. This process is termed contact metamorphism. Because pressure is not a factor in the formation of hornfels, it lacks the foliation seen in many metamorphic rocks formed under high pressure and temperature regimes.
Whangarei Heads, Tokatoka (Kaipara area), Paritu (northern Coromandel Peninsula), west Nelson area. Hornfels is a metamorphic rock formed by the contact between mudstone / shale, or other clay-rich rock, and a hot igneous body, and represents a heat-altered equivalent of the original rock. 
horn·fels. n. pl. hornfels. A fine-grained metamorphic rock composed of quartz, feldspar, mica, and other minerals, formed by the metamorphism of sedimentary rocks from heat associated with magma. hornfels. n. 1. (Geological Science) a hard compact fine-grained metamorphic rock formed by the action of heat from a magmatic intrusion on neighbouring sedimentary rocks. Also called: hornstone. [German: literally, horn rock].
Hornfels is formed when mudstone or shale come in contact with a hot igneous body and metamorphic rock. This process is called contact metamorphism. Because pressure is not a factor in the formation of hornfels, it lacks the foliation seen in many metamorphic rocks formed under high pressure and temperature regimes. Pre-existing bedding and structure of the parent rock is generally destroyed during the formation of hornfels. 2 people found this useful.
Noun. 1. hornfels-a fine-grained metamorphic rock formed by the action of heat on clay rocks. hornstone. metamorphic rock-rock altered by pressure and heat. hornfels. n. 1. (Geological Science) a hard compact fine-grained metamorphic rock formed by the action of heat from a magmatic intrusion on neighbouring sedimentary rocks. Also called: hornstone. [German: literally, horn rock].
Hornfels. Hornfels is a fine-textured metamorphic rock formed by contact metamorphism. Contact metamorphism occurs when a mass of hot magma intrudes into preexisting rock, whether by injecting itself into a crack or by ascending in a large body (e.g., pluton). The term hornfels is often restricted to rocks produced by contact metamorphism of shale, slate, or mudstone. In contrast to schists and gneisses, hornfelses show little or no foliation or layering.
Most hornfels are fine-grained, and while the original rocks (such as sandstone, shale, slate, limestone and diabase) may have been more or less fissile owing to the presence of bedding or cleavage planes, this structure is effaced or rendered inoperative in the hornfels. The most common hornfels (the biotite hornfels) are dark-brown to black with a somewhat velvety luster owing to the abundance of small crystals of shining black mica.