GOD-The English word God is identical with the Anglo-Saxon word for good, and therefore it is believed that the name God refers to the divine goodness. (See Oehler's Theol. of Old Test.; Strong's and Young's concordances.) (From New Unger's Bible Dictionary) (Originally published by Moody Press of Chicago, Illinois. 1. LORD; GOD = Jehovah (Yahweh; Hebrew YHWH, third person singular noun from the root word, ehyeh meaning literally, self-existent). This is used as a proper name of God and should have been retained in that form by the translators.
Brodie can be a given name or a surname. Of Scottish origin, and a location in Moray, Scotland, its meaning is uncertain; it is not clear if Brodie, as a word, has its origins in the Gaelic or Pictish languages. In 2012 this name was the 53rd most popular boys' name in Scotland. Some of the suggestions that have been advanced as to the meaning of the name Brodie are: 1  Gaelic for a little ridge; a brow, or a precipice;  2 ditch or mire, from the old Irish word broth;  3 muddy place, from the Gaelic word brothach;  4 a point, a spot, or level piece of land, from the Gaelic word Brodha;
Brodie (#681 last year) is the only other popular variation form of Brody (#92 last year) . Adoption of these boy names was at its most widespread in the year 2008 (usage of 0.7545%) and has become significantly less since (usage 0.6135%, down 18.7%). Brody /bro-dy/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced BROH-dee. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Brody is ditch. Place name. Also possibly related to brathair meaning brother in Irish. There is a Castle Brodie in Scotland
The lands of Brodie {Map} are in Scotland, between Morayshire and Nairnshire, on the modern border that separates the Scottish Highlands and Moray. In the time of the Picts (pre 10th century), this location was at the heart of the Kingdom of Moravia. Some of the suggestions that have been advanced as to the meaning of the name Brodie are: 1  Gaelic for a little ridge; a brow, or a precipice;  2 ditch or mire, from the old Irish word broth;  3 muddy place, from the Gaelic word brothach;  4 a point, a spot, or level piece of land, from the Gaelic word Brodha;
The name Brody is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Brody is: Second son. American Meaning: The name Brody is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Brody is: Second son. Irish Meaning: The name Brody is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Brody is: From the muddy place. Surname.
Brody is a rare given name for men but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#4966 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Brody for boys. Brody /bro-dy/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced BROH-dee. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Brody is ditch. Place name. Also possibly related to brathair meaning brother in Irish. There is a Castle Brodie in Scotland