A thrombus, or colloquially a blood clot, is the final product of the blood coagulation step in hemostasis. There are two components to a thrombus: aggregated platelets that form a platelet plug, and a mesh of cross-linked fibrin protein. A thrombus is a healthy response to injury intended to prevent bleeding, but can be harmful in thrombosis, when clots obstruct blood flow through healthy blood vessels. Mural thrombi are thrombi that adhere to the wall of a blood vessel.
[throm′bin]. an enzyme formed from prothrombin, calcium, and thromboplastin in plasma during the clotting process. Thrombin causes fibrinogen to change to fibrin, which is essential in the formation of a clot. Also called factor IIa. See also blood clot, prothrombin. Hematology A key clot promoting enzyme that converts fibrinogen to fibrin and protects against fibrinolysis by activating thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor. 
A blood clot forms when red blood cells and fibrin strands clump together. A thrombus is a clot that blocks blood flow. If part of the thrombus breaks away, it is called an embolism. Sometimes clots form inside vessels where there is no injury and they do not dissolve naturally. Abnormal clots can form in arteries or veins, important vessels that transport blood around the body
The leading cause of stroke occurs when a blood clot occludes, or obstructs, an artery supplying blood to your brain. Formation of vascular blood clots is also a leading cause of death in cancer patients because cancer cells create conditions that favor clotting. You may not know it, but if you are over 50 the greatest threat to your continued existence is the formation of abnormal blood clots in your arteries and veins. The most common form of heart attack occurs when a blood clot (thrombus) blocks a coronary artery that feeds your heart muscle.
Inherited Causes of Blood Clots. Inherited causes of blood clots are related to a genetic (inherited) tendency for clot formation that generally occur at a young age (for example, occurring before 40 or 45 years), with or without an apparent cause, and with a tendency to recur. The factor V Leiden mutation or alteration (FVL) was identified in 1993 and has since been found to be a leading cause of blood clots among white populations. In fact, the FVL alteration is the most common genetic risk factor for blood clots.
Coumadin blocks this enzyme, inhibiting the recycling of vitamin K and, thereby, decreasing the formation of the active clotting factors. It is important to understand that Coumadin does not dissolve or break down blood clots (only special clot buster medications that must be given in the hospital can do this). 
Plasmin is the body's natural clot-busting substance.   Studies have confirmed that an enzyme present in a Japanese fermented soy food is effective in lowering blood pres … sure and dissolving clots. 
Blood clotting (coagulation) is the process by which blood vessels repair ruptures after injury. Injury repair actually begins even before clotting does, through vascular spasm, or muscular contraction of the vessel walls, which reduces blood loss. Clotting itself is a complex cascade of reactions involving platelets, enzymes, and structural proteins. Platelets are not whole cells, but rather small packets of membrane-bounded cytoplasm. There are approximately one million platelets in a drop of blood.
A clot may break off, forming an embolus, which can lodge in a small blood vessel, cutting off circulation. If this occurs in the heart, it may cause ischemia (lack of blood flow) or myocardial infarction (heart attack). In the lungs, it causes pulmonary embolism, with loss of capacity for oxygen exchange. Clotting itself is a complex cascade of reactions involving platelets, enzymes, and structural proteins. Platelets are not whole cells, but rather small packets of membrane-bounded cytoplasm. There are approximately one million platelets in a drop of blood.
Ceasing clotting is also a duty of the enzyme These are factors which constitute the system in which blood clotting is implemented. These enzymes know what to activate or deactivate, where to condense (provide a certain quantity of), and recognize which part of the body is in need of repair. When clotting continues uncontrollably, a potentially hazardous situation arises for the body's vital organs, in which malfunctioning may occur and will cause congestion of blood vessels. For this reason, the enzymes must know when to stop coagulation.