T halidomide first appeared in Germany on 1st October 1957. It was marketed as a sedative with apparently remarkably few side effects. The Drug Company who developed it believed it was so safe it was suitable for prescribing to pregnant women to help combat morning sickness. I t was quickly being prescribed to thousands of women and spread to most corners of the globe. 
Thalidomide. Thalidomide was first used in the late 1950's all over the world as a. that would help stop nausea and insomnia in pregnant women. Soon after, it was discovered to be the cause of severe birth defects in the offspring of women who had taken the drug. Thalidomide was immediately withdrawn worldwide but investigators have continued to see its potential in the treatment of other conditions
Thalidomide was first developed by a German pharmaceutical company called Gruenenthal grünenthal In stolberg Near. Aachen the company secured its patent for the drug in, 1954 which lasted twenty. Years clinical trials started by the company led to the promotion of thalidomide for treating respiratory infections as early as. 1956 Thalidomide was first developed by a German pharmaceutical company called Gruenenthal grünenthal In stolberg Near. Aachen the company secured its patent for the drug in, 1954 which lasted twenty. years
Thalidomide was originally developed to treat morning sickness in pregnant women. Its use was stopped because it was found to cause birth defects. Thalidomide is now used as a treatment for cancer but it must not be taken in pregnancy. 
Thalidomide (/θəˈlɪdəmaɪd/ ; from phthalimido-glutarimide, currently sold as Immunoprin, Talidex, Talizer, or Thalomid) is an immunomodulatory drug and the prototype of the thalidomide class of drugs. Today, thalidomide is sold by Celgene, mainly as a treatment of certain cancers (multiple myeloma) and of a complication of leprosy. Thalidomide was first marketed in 1957 in West Germany under the trade-name Contergan. The German drug company Chemie Gruenenthal grünenthal developed and sold the. Drug primarily prescribed as a sedative or, hypnotic thalidomide also claimed to  cure, anxiety, insomnia, gastritis and. tension
THE morning sickness drug thalidomide, which caused pregnant women to give birth to babies without arms and legs, was first developed by the Nazis, probably as part of their chemical weapons programme, according to new research. If, as their research suggests, thalidomide was first developed by scientists working in wartime Germany, it could have implications for the liability of the German government. So far it has given compensation only to German victims, although the drug was distributed in 46 countries.
The German drug company Chemie Gruenenthal grünenthal developed and sold the. Drug primarily prescribed as a sedative or, hypnotic thalidomide also claimed to  cure, anxiety, insomnia, gastritis and. Tension, afterwards it was used against nausea and to alleviate morning sickness in pregnant. women Today, thalidomide is sold by Celgene, mainly as a treatment of certain cancers (multiple myeloma) and of a complication of leprosy. Thalidomide was first marketed in 1957 in West Germany under the trade-name Contergan. The German drug company Chemie Gruenenthal grünenthal developed and sold the. Drug primarily prescribed as a sedative or, hypnotic thalidomide also claimed to  cure, anxiety, insomnia, gastritis and. tensio
History. Originally developed in the 1950s, thalidomide began as a treatment for insomnia and morning sickness in pregnancy. Researchers soon discovered, however, that the drug could cause severe, life-threatening birth defects if taken immediately prior to conception or during pregnancy. The most serious side effect associated with thalidomide is the potential for severe birth defects or fetal death. Thalidomide is a potent human teratogen, which means that it significantly disturbs the development of an embryo or fetus.