Gaelic Meaning: The name Erin is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Erin is: Peace; Poetic name for Ireland. American Meaning: The name Erin is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Erin is: Peace; Poetic name for Ireland. Irish Meaning: The name Erin is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Erin is: An ancient and poetic name for Ireland.
Derived from the Gaelic Érinn, érinn the dative case Érie, erie érie which Is the irish Name. For Ireland though erin is Popular in england And.The., u s it is not normally bestowed as a given Name. in ireland Erin is a poetic name for Ireland. For this reason, it became very popular among American families of Irish extraction. However, it was not used in Ireland itself until the late 20th century. Erin and Neri are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters.
Derived from the Gaelic Érinn, érinn the dative case Érie, erie érie which Is the irish Name. For Ireland though erin is Popular in england And.The., u s it is not normally bestowed as a given Name. In Ireland From a World Of baby Names By. teresa norman Erin is a poetic name for Ireland. For this reason, it became very popular among American families of Irish extraction. However, it was not used in Ireland itself until the late 20th century. Erin and Neri are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters.
Erin is a very prominent first name for females (#160 out of 4276, Top 4%) and a slightly less prominent surname for all people (#76946 out of 150436, Top 51%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Erin for girls. Erin was first listed in 1950-1959 and reached its apex rank of #28 in the U.S. in the 1980s, and is at #325 presently. (2014 Birth Statistics). Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of Erin and associated names.
Origin and meaning of Erin. 3-5 5. The meaning of Erin is  Ireland . Its origin is  Modern Irish variant of the Gaelic and Irish names Éireann éireann Éirinn . Eirinn éirinn recently this name is mostly being used as a, girls name but'historically it s'a unisex. s name Erin is the Modern Irish form of the name for Ireland. In poetry, it is used as a romantic name for Ireland. Erin go bragh is an Irish phrase meaning Ireland forever.. Erin came into use a an English name in the mid-1900s. Now it is popular in many countries, including the United States, Scotland, Wales and France.
Erin /erin/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less widely as boys' name Erin) is pronounced AIR-en. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Erin is  Ireland . From irinn and ire. Poetic name for the island used in songs and poems. Presented below is the birth name popularity of Erin for girls. Erin was first listed in 1950-1959 and reached its apex rank of #28 in the U.S. in the 1980s, and is at #325 presently. (2014 Birth Statistics). Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of Erin and associated names.
Often, Erin's Isle was used. In this context, along with Hibernia, Erin is the name given to the female personification of Ireland, but the name was rarely used as a given name, probably because no saints, queens, or literary figures were ever called Erin. Erin is also a name for Ireland in Welsh, and is one of the 20 most popular girls' names in Wales. As a family name, Erin has been used as one of the many spellings of the name of the Scottish clan Irwin - which was involved in the Scottish Plantations of Ireland.
Comments and insights on the name Erin: | Edit. Erin is a poetic name for Ireland. For this reason, it became very popular among American families of Irish extraction. However, it was not used in Ireland itself until the late 20th century. Erin and Neri are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters.
Erin is a genuinely unisex name, though it is mostly used on girls. Erin is the Modern Irish form of the name for Ireland. In poetry, it is used as a romantic name for Ireland. Erin go bragh is an Irish phrase meaning Ireland forever.. Erin came into use a an English name in the mid-1900s. Now it is popular in many countries, including the United States, Scotland, Wales and France