1 They also act as food, providing energy for other organisms. 2  In the Great Lakes, most producers are phytoplankton, or microscopic floating plants. 3  An example of phytoplankton is green algae. 4  Large rooted plants, another type of producer, provide food and shelter for different organisms, fish and wildlife. 1 In the Great Lakes, most producers are phytoplankton, or microscopic floating plants. 2  An example of phytoplankton is green algae. 3  Large rooted plants, another type of producer, provide food and shelter for different organisms, fish and wildlife.
A fish is any member of a paraphyletic group of organisms that consist of all gill-bearing aquatic craniate animals that lack limbs with digits. Included in this definition are the living hagfish, lampreys, and cartilaginous and bony fish, as well as various extinct related groups. Fish do not represent a monophyletic group, and therefore the evolution of fish is not studied as a single event. Early fish from the fossil record are represented by a group of small, jawless, armored fish known as Ostracoderms. Jawless fish lineages are mostly extinct.
The clownfish is a type of fish that lives in salt water habitats. It is also called an Anemonefish. Clownfish are typically very bright, orange fish that have three white stripes, one at the head, middle and tail. 
A fish is any aquatic vertebrate animal that is typically ectothermic (or cold-blooded), covered with scales, and equipped with two sets of paired fins and several unpaired fins. Fish are abundant in the sea and in fresh water, with species being known from mountain streams (e.g., char and gudgeon) as well as in the deepest depths of the ocean (e.g., gulpers and anglerfish).
1 Large rooted plants, another type of producer, provide food and shelter for different organisms, fish and wildlife. 2  Primary Consumers The next level in the food chain is made up of primary consumers, or organisms that eat food produced by other organisms. 1 In the Great Lakes, most producers are phytoplankton, or microscopic floating plants. 2  An example of phytoplankton is green algae. 3  Large rooted plants, another type of producer, provide food and shelter for different organisms, fish and wildlife.
Yes fish is an organism. A fish is any aquatic vertebrate animal that is typically ectothermic (or cold-blooded), covered with scales, and equipped with two sets of paired fin … s and several unpaired fins. Also, some other types of fish will attack a betta's fins: other long-finned fish, most barbs, and some tetras will not live peacefully with them. Also, aggressive fish will harm and probably kill them and fast moving fish will make them nervous.
Herbivores, such as ducks, small fish and many species of zooplankton (animal plankton) eat plants. Carnivores (meat eaters) eat other animals and can be small (e.g., frog) or large (e.g., lake trout). Omnivores are animals (including humans) that eat both plants and animals. Each is an important part of the food chain. 1 In the Great Lakes, most producers are phytoplankton, or microscopic floating plants. 2  An example of phytoplankton is green algae. 3  Large rooted plants, another type of producer, provide food and shelter for different organisms, fish and wildlife.
What is an Organism? Definition: Organism – anything that can live on its own Unicellular Organisms Unicellular Organisms Definition: Unicellular organism – an organism made of only one cell Information: These organism are very small and need to be seen with a microscope. 
All known types of organisms are capable of some degree of response to stimuli, reproduction, growth and development and homeostasis. An organism consists of one or more cells; when it has one cell is a unicellular organism; and when it has more than one it is known as a multicellular organism. Most unicellular organisms are of microscopic size and are thus classified as microorganisms. Humans are multicellular organisms composed of many trillions of cells grouped into specialized tissues and organs. An organism may be either a prokaryote or a eukaryote.