Really well made shoe, but not for the toddler that has a high instep. I wish I could have fit my son's foot in this shoe, but could barely get his toes in due to how they are laced. Loved the style and durability of the shoe-hopefully I can find something similar but with an easier opening for his feet. For a boy his age this shoe looks like a girl's shoe! It is a pretty light brown color, but not for older boys. I exchanged it for the same shoe in a barker brown shoe with yellow accent stitching and grey fur. That one is a much better option for a boy! If I ever have a girl, I will buy this one again.
Why can’t I find a men’s size 15 KEEN shoe? Sometimes dealers do not carry the entire size run of all our styles. In this case, most dealers are more than happy to place a special order for you in the size you need. We do have a few styles always available in US men’s size 15, plus a few new ones. 
Style: Rated:5 stars! This is our second pair of Keen shoes, and I just ordered a third. These shoes are perfect for little girls ! My 5 and 3 year olds can easily put them on by themselves which is a huge help in the mornings. They also look very cute with all their girly dresses and clothes, yet still allow them to run on the playground. For a boy his age this shoe looks like a girl's shoe! It is a pretty light brown color, but not for older boys. I exchanged it for the same shoe in a barker brown shoe with yellow accent stitching and grey fur. That one is a much better option for a boy! If I ever have a girl, I will buy this one again.
Keen sandals are designed for hiking and other outdoor activities. Many Keen designs are hybrid sandals that protect the toes. They tend to run half a size small compared to other shoes, and con... 
I've had my eye on the KEEN Venturas for a while now as well as the Calistogas. Are they pretty true to size for you? I normally wear an 8 in all of my shoes (flats, wedge, tennis shoes, heels, etc.,), but I've never bought shoes online and wanted to get some input. 
Maybe. They are pretty wide so if your child has a narrow foot, take that into account. When they get small (but not too small to wear) they get hard to put on. I found that when my son was outgrowing his size, but could still fit in other brands, his Keens became VERY hard to get on/off. After a great experience with newports last summer, I bought a pair of Bronx Keens over the winter
I typically buy 1/2 size up and then they can wear them for a bit longer, plus I think Keens run a tad small. My kids like the fact that the H2 sandal has a covered heel as opposed to a heel strap. We like how the polyester webbing holds its color and integrity. These sandals encourage your kid to get as much fresh air as possible. Before your elementary-schoolers go out with their friends, make sure they slip on the Keen Youth Newport H2 Sandals. These Keen sandals offer the support of a tennis shoe, so your kids can play all day without sore feet.
They run small, but not sure how small. I normally wear a 10 U.S. but the merrell's I bought size 10 were too small. My toes touched the front of the shoe, so not sure if a 10.5 would be big enough either. Russ. They can run a full size off. My husband normally takes a 13 shoe size and had to go up to a 14 in the Merrell's. Myself, I take a 6 to 6 1/25 and to buy decent hiking shoes/boots, I had to go up to a 7 1/2 in womens.
I usually buy mid-priced shoes: Keens, Naturalizer, Saucony. I'm an 8.5 in all of them. My daughter has worn hers true-to-size since she had her first, in a size five toddler. She wore a five in Converse, Keen, and a galosh. It's not that the stay-at-home-parent gets to stay home with the kids. The kids get to stay home with a parent.
I found that they ran true-to-size in length, but they do run very wide, especially in the toe box. I have a narrow foot as it is, so only the sneaker styles work for me -- the MJ's are too wide and gap too much when I walk. The best way to find out if they will work for you is to go try some on. So I would say, you would be safe getting it true to size, but just make sure there is a decent return policy at the place of purchase. I bought most of mine from REI, but zappos.com occasionally has them on sale. Man, this just made me realize I should get some different shoes! 10-20-2005 #5.