Diazepam is the generic name for Valium, a prescription drug doctors prescribe to treat symptoms of anxiety disorders. Anxiety disorders include generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , panic disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) .
For most people experiencing alcohol withdrawal, diazepam dosing starts at diazepam 10 mg three or four times during the first 24 hours. After the first day, the dose is usually lowered to diazepam 5 mg three to four times daily as needed.
Valium (diazepam) is a medication belonging to the drug class benzodiazepine. Valium is available as a generic drug. Valium is prescribed for the treatment of anxiety, seizures, muscle spasms, and symptoms of alcohol withdrawal.
Valium is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic.
The usual dose of this anti anxiety medicine for relief of muscle spasms is 2 mg to 10 mg three or four times daily. Convulsive disorders: The usual valium dosage for convulsive disorders is 2 milligrams to 10 mg two to
The recommended diazepam dose for anxiety treatment is diazepam 2 mg to 10 mg two to four times daily, depending on the severity of your symptoms. Diazepam Dosing for Muscle Spasms. The recommended dose of diazepam for treating muscle spasms is diazepam 2 mg to 10 mg three or four times daily. Diazepam Dosing for Seizures. The recommended diazepam dose for controlling seizures is diazepam 2 mg to 10 mg two to four times daily. Diazepam is intended to be used along with other seizure medications.
The typical dose of diazepam used to treat anxiety or seizures in healthy adults ranges from a total of 6 milligrams (mg) to 40 mg per day given in three or four doses.
Recommended dosage. The typical dose of diazepam used to treat anxiety or seizures in healthy adults ranges from a total of 6 milligrams (mg) to 40 mg per day given in three or four doses. Elderly people (over age 60) are usually given lower doses in the range of 4–10 mg per day to treat anxiety or nervous tension.