EMT-Basic. With a high school diploma in hand, you can begin the education required to become an EMT-Basic as long as you are 18 years of age or older. You may find an accredited program at your local community college or hospital. Education Requirements for a Paramedic. The National Standard Curriculum, developed by the U.S. Department of Transportation, provides the minimum education requirements for all EMT levels, which include EMT-Basic, EMT-Intermediate, and EMT-Paramedic.
Programs for paramedics have varying eligibility requirements and prerequisites, according to the Center for Prehospital Care at the David Geffen School of Medicine. In most cases, you must be at least 18 years of age when you enter the EMT program, which is a prerequisite for a paramedic education. Each state governs emergency services separately, and regulations vary from one state to another. The Bureau of Labor Statistics notes that all paramedics, however, must complete formal training. Paramedic training programs usually require a high school diploma and certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
Related content sponsored by. The first of the training requirements to be a paramedic is to get certified as an EMT-B, which is the first and most basic level of EMT training. The EMT-B training is available through many community colleges and other institutions. It usually takes about six months to complete the 120 to 150 hours of training. After that, you take a state certification test. As an EMT, you can be employed providing emergency treatment in ambulances and many other venues. Paramedic education. The educational requirements to be a paramedic are rigorous. Many community colleges have two-year degree programs in paramedic training. Oftentimes there’s a pre-requisite of college-level biology, math and English in order to be accepted in a paramedic program.
The curriculum may vary slightly, depending on the state in which you live. A paramedic is the most extensively trained of the three types of emergency medical technicians (EMTs). You'll complete hundreds of hours of education-including EMT-Basic training-before becoming a certified paramedic. Education Requirements for a Paramedic. The National Standard Curriculum, developed by the U.S. Department of Transportation, provides the minimum education requirements for all EMT levels, which include EMT-Basic, EMT-Intermediate, and EMT-Paramedic.
Generally, a high school diploma is required to enter a training program to become an EMT or paramedic. Workers must complete a formal training and certification process. Education and training. A high school diploma is usually required to enter a formal emergency medical technician training program. Training is offered at progressive levels: EMT-Basic, EMT-Intermediate, and EMT-Paramedic. The following is by and according to the U.S. Department of Labor and particular to the education and training required for an EMT and
You may not need an EMT-Intermediate license to enroll in a paramedic program, but you must have an EMT-Basic license. You must also meet anatomy and physiology course requirements, either as prerequisites or as part of the paramedic program. Education Requirements for a Paramedic. The National Standard Curriculum, developed by the U.S. Department of Transportation, provides the minimum education requirements for all EMT levels, which include EMT-Basic, EMT-Intermediate, and EMT-Paramedic.