The 1142 series DVI-D cable is a shielded, dual-link, DVI-D to DVI-D digital video monitor cable. Unlike single-link DVI cables, dual-link DVI features a full set of pins for increased bandwidth, allowing you to view higher resolutions at longer distances without loss or noise interference. 
A dual-link DVI interface sends data over both of the DVI links to the monitor, and this is how higher resolutions are achieved. With dual-link DVI, a resolution of 2048 x 1536 is possible... juicy! Of course, for dual-link to work, the cable, output source and display device must be geared up for it. Some graphics cards will only have a single link DVI transmitter, which leaves you without the ability to run at ultra-high resolutions.
Summary: 1. DVI-D is a DVI connector that is meant for digital signals only while DVI-I is a connector that allows both digital and analog signals. 2. DVI-I connectors have all the necessary pins for a single link DVI cable while DVI-D connectors lack the four pins that is supposed to carry the analog signal. 3. The long and flat pin on the DVI-D connector is slightly smaller than that on the DVI-I connector. 4.
DVI dual link as the name implies has more conductors than the DVI single link for transmitting signal. Single link DVI supports a maximum bandwidth of 165 MHz (1920 x 1080 at 60 Hz, 1280 x 1024 at 85 Hz) and utilizes 12 of the 24 available pins. Dual link DVI utilizes all 24 available pins and supports 2x 165 MHz maximum bandwidth (2048 x 1536 at 60 Hz, 1920 x 1080 at 85 Hz).
Hello, Single link DVI is able to transfer 1920 x 1080 resolution vs dual link 2048 x 1536. If your equipment does not specifically state it is Dual link in its specifications, it almost certainly is not. A better quality cable is a better quality cable, and single and dual link has nothing to do with quality. 2048x1536 is supported by single link DVI AND even some analog vga cards released 4+ years ago (vodoo 5 5500 is a good example of an older analog only card, look at the specs). Don't comment on stuff that you know nothing about.
Digital Visual Interface (DVI) is a video display interface developed by the Digital Display Working Group (DDWG). The digital interface is used to connect a video source, such as a display controller to a display device, such as a computer monitor. To support higher-resolution display devices, the DVI specification contains a provision for dual link. Dual-link DVI doubles the number of TMDS pairs, effectively doubling the video bandwidth. As a result, higher resolutions up to 2560 × 1600 are supported at 60 Hz.
Although a Dual Link DVI connector has more pins, a standard DVI-I connector has the complete pin set to facilitate a digital and an analog connection. This is not the case with DVI-D cables as the four pins that are supposed to carry the analog signals have been removed. 2. DVI-I connectors have all the necessary pins for a single link DVI cable while DVI-D connectors lack the four pins that is supposed to carry the analog signal. 3. The long and flat pin on the DVI-D connector is slightly smaller than that on the DVI-I connector. 4.
The Digital formats are available in DVI-D Single-Link and Dual-Link as well as DVI-I Single-Link and Dual-Link format connectors. These DVI cables send information using a digital information format called TMDS (transition minimized differential signaling). There are three types of DVI connections: DVI-Digital, DVI-Analog, and DVI-Integrated DVI-D - True Digital Video If you are connecting a DVI computer to a DVI monitor, this is the cable you want. DVI-D cables are used for direct digital connections between source video (namely, video cards) and LCD monitors.