The SI derived unit for volume is the cubic meter. 1 cubic meter is equal to 4226.75281986 cups, or 1000 liters. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. ›› Definition: Litre. The litre (spelled liter in American English and German) is a metric unit of volume. The litre is not an SI unit, but (along with units such as hours and days) is listed as one of the units outside the SI that are accepted for use with the SI.. The SI unit of volume is the cubic metre (m).
1.99 cup 1 liter = 4.22 cups 1 cup = 0.23 L 1 L = 4 metric cups. Edit. Share to: Charlie N. 120,333 Contributions. I have a degree in Cooking and Catering, and found I have a knack for calculating and converting recipe amounts. I liter equals about 4 cups. I liter equals about 4 cups.
How many fluid ounces US of volume and capacity system are in 1 liter? The answer is: The change of 1 l (liter) unit for a volume and capacity measure equals = into 33.81 fl oz (fluid ounce US) as per its equivalent volume and capacity unit type measure often used. To link to this volume and capacity-liter to fluid ounces US on line culinary converter for the answer, simply cut and paste the following. The link to this tool will appear as: Culinary volume and capacity from liter (l) into fluid ounces US (fl oz) conversion.
Best Answer: It's wonderful the mis-information you receive here. One cup = 8 oz = 236.5 ml One quart = 32 oz One liter = exactly 33.8140226 US fluid ounces or 4 cups plus a little more! . 
Cups to liters volume measurement units conversion factors are listed below. To find out how many liters in cups, multiply by the right factor or simply use the converter below. 1 Cup [US] = 0.236588236 Liter. Cup is a volume unit and used mostly in cooking to measure liquid, bulk and dry foods. There is no international standard for cup sizes but mostly united states customary and metric cups are used. The abbreviation is c. Liter is volume unit which equals to 1 cubic decimeter (decimetre). 
You can view more details on each measurement unit: liter or cups. The SI derived unit for volume is the cubic meter. 1 cubic meter is equal to 1000 liter, or 4226.75281986 cups. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between liters and
Conversion for how many fluid ounces US, fl oz, of volume and capacity units, are contained in a liter, l? Or, how much in fluid ounces US volume and capacity in 1 liter? To link to this volume and capacity-liter to fluid ounces US on line culinary converter for the answer, simply cut and paste the following. The link to this tool will appear as: Culinary volume and capacity from liter (l) into fluid ounces US (fl oz) conversion.
Liters to cups volume measurement units conversion factors are listed below. To find out how many cups in liters, multiply by the right factor or simply use the converter below. 1 Liter = 4.2267528377 Cups [US]. Liter is volume unit which equals to 1 cubic decimeter (decimetre). It is widely used in daily life to measure the fluids. Thee abbreviation is l. Cup is a volume unit and used mostly in cooking to measure liquid and bulk, dry foods
How many cups Australian of volume and capacity system are in 1 liter? The answer is: The change of 1 l (liter) unit for a volume and capacity measure equals = into 4.00 cup (cup Australian) as per its equivalent volume and capacity unit type measure often used. The link to this tool will appear as: Culinary volume and capacity from liter (l) into cups Australian (cup) conversion.