Indemnify Law & Legal Definition. To indemnify means to reimburse another for a loss suffered because of a third party's or one's own act or default.
DEFINITION of 'Indemnity'. Indemnity is compensation for damages or loss. Indemnity in the legal sense may also refer to an exemption from liability for damages. The concept of indemnity is based on a contractual agreement made between two parties, in which one party agrees to pay for potential losses or damages caused by the other party. Indemnity insurance is a way for a company (or individual) to be protected against indemnity claims. This insurance protects the holder from having to pay the full sum of an indemnity, even if the holder is at fault for the cause of the indemnity in the first place.
An indemnity contract arises when one individual takes on the obligation to pay for any loss or damage that has been or might be incurred by another individual. The right to indemnity and the duty to indemnify ordinarily stem from a contractual agreement, which generally protects against liability, loss, or damage. INDEMNITY. That which is given to a person to prevent his suffering damage. 2 McCord, 279. Sometimes it signifies diminution; a tenant who has been interrupted in the enjoyment of his lease may require an indemnity from the lessor, that is, a reduction of his rent. 2.
Indemnities form the basis of many insurance contracts; for example, a car owner may purchase different kinds of insurance as an indemnity for various kinds of loss arising from operation of the car, such as damage to the car itself, or medical expenses following an accident. An indemnity is distinct from a guarantee, which is the promise of a third party to honor the obligation of a party to a contract should that party be unable or unwilling to do so (usually a guarantee is limited to an obligation to pay a debt).
indemnity-Legal Definition. n. 1  A duty, typically arising from contract, in which one promises to make good another’s financial loss or liability, resulting from a particular event or contingency. Indemnity is defined as protection from damage, injury, financial loss or legal liability. When you buy insurance and your insurance protects you from being sued or from financial loss, this is an example of indemnity.
Look up indemnity in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. An indemnity is an obligation by a person (indemnitor) to provide compensation for a particular loss suffered by another person (indemnitee). An indemnity is distinct from a guarantee, which is the promise of a third party to honor the obligation of a party to a contract should that party be unable or unwilling to do so (usually a guarantee is limited to an obligation to pay a debt).
In a contract of indemnity the indemnitor, for a consideration, promises to indemnify and save harmless the indemnitee against liability of the indemnitee to a third person, or against loss resulting from such liability. The contract of the indemnitor is an original undertaking. 
INDEMNITY. An agreement whereby one party agrees to secure another against an anticipated loss or damage. For example, someone may agree to turn a business over to another person for a reduced price if they pay the debts and other obligations of the business. 
Indemnity Law & Legal Definition. Indemnity means compensation in money or property for a loss suffered. It also means a contract to save another from the legal consequences of the conduct of one of the parties or of a third person. It is an agreement whereby one party agrees to secure another against an anticipated loss or damage. Indemnity is a right which insures to a person who, without active fault on his/her own part, has been compelled, by reason of some legal obligation, to pay damages occasioned by the initial negligence of another, and for which s/he himself is only secondarily liable.
An Indemnity Is a collateral contract or assurance, by which one person engages to secure another against an anticipated loss or to prevent him from being damnified by the legal consequences of an act or forbearance on the part of one of the parties or of some third person. See Civ. Code Cal. 