An owner;s engineer may work closely with a construction project manager to ensure a facility is equipped adequately. The owner's engineer can save owners money in the short and long term by making sure projects are performed to specifications and regulatory guidelines.
An owner’s engineer can also be helpful in securing project financing. To get the best possible financing deal, a project must clearly define—at a very early stage—the schedule, projected costs, and suitability of technology and location.
The owner’s engineer can then participate in project definition and provide a process assessment. At the very least, owner’s engineering should entail a feasibility study, preliminary engineering, and a detailed scope and estimate.
Typically an entire engineering firm, rather than an an individual engineer, provides this service. Owner's engineers can include a team of people from different engineering specialties as well as support staff. They start work on the project as early as possible, usually during the design and development phase.
An owner’s engineer can help take a project from concept through commissioning. This can be especially important when personnel cutbacks or inexperience make it hard for an owner to manage the intricacies and details of a project with in-house staff.
The most basic definition of an owner’s engineer is someone or, more commonly, a team of experts that serves as an independent advocate for the owner. The owner’s engineer plays a supporting but critical role by filling gaps and supplementing a plant owner’s resources (Figure 1).
The scope of the owner’s engineer can vary depending upon the specific requirements of a project and the owner’s ability to execute various tasks. Initially, owner’s engineering can include process guidance, development and technology evaluation.
An owner's engineer is an engineer who represents the owner of a project during design, development, and construction to confirm that the work is done well and within legal standards. The owner's engineer inspects the design plans, timelines, and other materials developed to support the project.