Respected dermatologists who specialize in rare skin disorders and receive dozens of referrals per month may charge more than normal acne specialists. The going rate for a cheaper dermatologist is typically between $100 and $170 per visit. An expensive dermatologist might charge upwards of $200. If you're unsatisfied with the cost of your visit, talk to your dermatologist's bookkeeper and ask how to secure a reduced rate on your next appointment. 
I worked for a dermatologist who charged $90 just for the office visit, not including any treatment done in the office, which is then added to your bill per treatment. If it is only a prescription you need, then you will usually be charged for the office visit only. If you're going in for acne, they will usually prescribe either an antibiotic, cream or ointment. The prescription will usually be good for refills anywhere from a month to 3 months to 6 months, depending on the doctor, depending on the medication prescribed, depending on what you are being treated for, etc.
My face cleared up within a month using Neutrogena oil-free acne wash, and that moisturizing sunscreen. =] I used to go to a dermatologist, and I hated it. Nothing worked. It was so annoying. Maybe you can clear your skin by yourself. 
1 Once acne is cleared up, some patients choose to undergo additional treatments for scarring. 2  These can include microdermabrasion and dermabrasion, which can cost up to $2,000 or more, depending on the number of sessions needed. 3  AcneNet has a primer on acne scarring and treatments. 1 For prescription antibiotics, topical creams and ointments -- or for hormone therapy, from birth control pills to a more aggressive regimen -- acne treatment typically costs $45 to $200 per month, which includes a doctor visit and prescription.
1 For over-the-counter daily regimens that can include a cleanser, a toner and a non-prescription medicated lotion, acne treatment costs $30 to $60 and up per month. 1 For prescription antibiotics, topical creams and ointments -- or for hormone therapy, from birth control pills to a more aggressive regimen -- acne treatment typically costs $45 to $200 per month, which includes a doctor visit and prescription.
This Site Might Help You. RE: How much does it Cost to see a Dermatologist? I really want to know how much the Dermatologist cost. I dont have health Insurance as yet and so i have a feelin thats its going to be really expensive without Insurance. Also...do i have to go regularly? If you're going in for acne, they will usually prescribe either an antibiotic, cream or ointment. The prescription will usually be good for refills anywhere from a month to 3 months to 6 months, depending on the doctor, depending on the medication prescribed, depending on what you are being treated for, etc.
Acne Treatments Cost. 1  For over-the-counter daily regimens that can include a cleanser, a toner and a non-prescription medicated lotion, acne treatment costs $30 to $60 and up per month. 1 For prescription antibiotics, topical creams and ointments -- or for hormone therapy, from birth control pills to a more aggressive regimen -- acne treatment typically costs $45 to $200 per month, which includes a doctor visit and prescription.
1 For physical treatments such as facials or chemical peels, acne treatment typically costs $75 to $200 per session, with one or more sessions required per month. 2  Even after acne clears, treatment must be continued to prevent a recurrence. 1 For prescription antibiotics, topical creams and ointments -- or for hormone therapy, from birth control pills to a more aggressive regimen -- acne treatment typically costs $45 to $200 per month, which includes a doctor visit and prescription.
All necessitate at least one HOW MUCH DOES ACNE DERMATOLOGIST COST visit to your doctor before those who have great skin; but how about the market out there: first is the huge amount of oil when hormones ‘balanced’ and having youthful glowing skin lesions bluish red discoloration and scarring. 