Multicultural Literature and the Children's Literary Canon by Kira Isak Pirofski, San Jose State University ABSTRACT This article reviews historical research that has affirmed the value of multicultural literature in school curriculum. The article documents findings of researchers who investigated the lack of multicultural literature in the children's classics, Newbery Medal, Caldecott Award books, trade books and best sellers.
The Changing Face. Of Children's Literature. Annotated Bibliography. The push for multicultural literature was a direct outgrowth of the Civil Rights movement in the United States in the 1950s and 1960s. 
Tighe, Mary Ann. In the wake of Alabama's new rules requiring multicultural education in teacher education programs, a study examined whether multicultural literature was actually being taught in all levels of education in the state, how it was being taught, and who was teaching it. More generally, 83% of the respondents agreed that multicultural literature should be taught because it encourages engagement with other cultures, but only 59% believed it encouraged the development of interpretative and evaluative skills.
Multiculturalism describes the existence, acceptance, or promotion of multiple cultural traditions within a single jurisdiction, usually considered in terms of the culture associated with an ethnic group. Multiculturalism that promotes maintaining the distinctiveness of multiple cultures is often contrasted to other settlement policies such as social integration, cultural assimilation and racial segregation. Multiculturalism has been described as a  salad bowl  and  cultural mosaic .
Definition. Let us begin by first defining some key terms. Multicultural Literature describes how people live in different parts of the world. In other words, we can learn about their culture and beliefs. The Importance of Multicultural Literature. Gaining a better understanding of other cultures, such as those featured in the novels we've discussed, can help us gain insight into our own. We often accept things at face value because we have become accustomed to them.
It is very important to include multicultural literature in the language arts curriculum. Through reading and writing this type of material students gain a deeper appreciation of who they are and who the people are around them. They are able to develop critical thinking skills, empathy, and self-worth. A third benefit in multicultural literature is that it helps students to shape values and the way they think about situation. In reading the literature, students can be exposed to multicultural issues through texts they are not often exposed to such as racism and prejudice.
Reading multicultural literature can help children gain a better understanding of people from other countries and ethnic backgrounds. These stories may describe how people live in different parts of the world, or they may portraying how children from different cultural backgrounds live together in the same country. Reading literature about people from other cultures has been proven to have positive developmental affects on children of all backgrounds. For the children of a specific ethnic minority, reading positive stories about their own ethnic group can increase self-esteem and make them feel part of a larger society.
Lesson Summary. Multicultural Literature can provide insight into a culture's thoughts and beliefs. As you read these stories, we can learn about the history, people, and experiences of other cultures. In turn, we can learn more about our own cultures and its values. The Importance of Multicultural Literature. Gaining a better understanding of other cultures, such as those featured in the novels we've discussed, can help us gain insight into our own. We often accept things at face value because we have become accustomed to them.
Multicultural Literature can provide insight into a culture's thoughts and beliefs. As you read these stories, we can learn about the history, people, and experiences of other cultures. The Importance of Multicultural Literature. Gaining a better understanding of other cultures, such as those featured in the novels we've discussed, can help us gain insight into our own. We often accept things at face value because we have become accustomed to them.
Multicultural literature features characters and themes from countries around the world. Writers in this genre express their ideas and values through the characters featured in their work. By examining these works in detail, you can learn how to understand them and broaden your understanding. The Importance of Multicultural Literature. Gaining a better understanding of other cultures, such as those featured in the novels we've discussed, can help us gain insight into our own. We often accept things at face value because we have become accustomed to them.