Fruits and vegetables are low in saturated fat and total fat, and have no cholesterol. A diet high in fruit and vegetables may also help keep cholesterol levels low. So fruits and vegetables are great substitutes for foods high in saturated fat and cholesterol. Breads, cereals, rice, pasta, and other grains, and dry beans and peas are generally high in starch and fiber and low in saturated fat and calories. Low Cholesterol Foods: Cholesterol Free Foods. The ultimate low cholesterol foods are cholesterol free foods (food that comes from a plant). Foods that have no cholesterol and should be part of any low cholesterol diet include:
Curb Cholesterol, Not Flavor. It’s no secret that certain foods can help you lower your LDL (“bad”) cholesterol, which causes a buildup of plaque in the arteries that leads to heart disease, heart attacks, and stroke. 
All of these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plants that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils) and cocoa butter. For people who need to lower their cholesterol, the American Heart Association recommends reducing saturated fat to no more than 5 to 6 percent of total daily calories. Trans fats raise your bad (LDL) cholesterol levels and lower your good (HDL) cholesterol levels. These changes are associated with increased risk of heart disease. Since 2006, the FDA has required trans fat content to be listed on the Nutrition Facts panel of packaged foods.
Fresh fruits are naturally free of cholesterol, and most fruits are low in fat and sodium. For example, one medium-sized apple contains no cholesterol or fat, and has only 2 milligrams of sodium. One medium-sized banana also contains no cholesterol, less than half a gram of fat and only 1 milligram of sodium. Animal sources of food tend to contain cholesterol and fat, with the exception of nonfat dairy products and egg whites. One large egg white contains no fat or cholesterol, but still contains 55
Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL cholesterol.
Saturated and trans fats raise LDL (or bad) cholesterol levels in the blood, thereby increasing the risk of heart disease. Dietary cholesterol also contributes to heart disease. Unsaturated fats, such as monounsaturated and polyunsaturated, do not raise LDL cholesterol and are beneficial when consumed in moderation. 
Vegetable Choices. Like fruits, all raw vegetables are cholesterol-free and most are sodium-free, making them another ideal food choice in the confines of the diet. For example, a 1/2-cup serving of green beans contains no cholesterol, no fat and only 6 milligrams of sodium. Freshly cooked vegetables with no added ingredients and frozen vegetables are good choices, but avoid canned vegetables, which are often high in sodium. Animal sources of food tend to contain cholesterol and fat, with the exception of nonfat dairy products and egg whites. One large egg white contains no fat or cholesterol, but still contains 55