Tait. According to frontman and DC Talk member Michael Tait, the band Tait was born in 1996 when he met drummer Chad Chapin. The two performed a cover of the song “Curious George,” followed by a bevy of Pearl Jam tracks.
Born Again (Newsboys album). Born Again is the fourteenth studio album by the Christian rock band Newsboys. It was released on 13 July 2010 and is the first full-length album with lead singer Michael Tait. The group released a special five-track preview EP, also titled Born Again, on 5 January 2010. Four tracks from the EP appeared on the album.
read more. Michael DeWayne Tait (born May 18, 1966) is one third of the multi-award winning Christian Rock band dcTalk and founded the Tait band. Tait is a self-taught guitar player and highly accomplished singer. One of Tait's five sisters is Lynda Randle, who is a gospel singer with the Gaither Homecoming Series. Tait met Toby McKeehan and Kevin Max while attending Liberty University in the late 1980s.
Michael Tait is lead singer of the Grammy nominated group The Newsboys. Best known as a member of the pioneering Christian rock/rap group dc Talk, Tait's career in the Christian music industry has been defined by stretching the boundaries of art, faith and culture. 
Tait is the current lead singer of Newsboys, and one third of Christian rock group DC Talk (though the group has been on hiatus since 2000). Tait also has had success in his solo career, founding a band called Tait in 1997. He toured as a solo act until 2007. Michael Tait met Toby McKeehan and Kevin Max while attending Liberty University in the late 1980s, and formed four-time Grammy winning band DC Talk, with whom he released five acclaimed studio albums.
Mini Bio (1). Michael Tait was born May 18, 1966 in Washington D.C. His parents were Maxine and Nathel Tait, and he has 5 sisters and two brothers. Michael attended Liberty University where he met Toby McKeehan and Kevin Max; they went on to form DC Talk. Currently Michael is the frontman for a new band, named Tait in honor of his father who passed away in 1999.
Michael DeWayne Tait (born May 18, 1966) is a contemporary Christian music artist. Michael Tait met Toby McKeehan and Kevin Max while attending Liberty University in the late 1980s, and formed four-time Grammy winning band DC Talk, with whom he released five acclaimed studio albums.
Michael DeWayne Tait is a contemporary Christian music artist. Michael Tait met Toby McKeehan and Kevin Max while attending Liberty University in the late 1980s, and formed four-time Grammy winning band DC Talk, with whom he released 5 acclaimed studio albums.
Soundtrack | Actor. Michael Tait was born May 18, 1966 in Washington D.C. His parents were Maxine and Nathel Tait, and he has 5 sisters and two brothers. Michael attended Liberty University where he met Toby McKeehan and Kevin Max; they went on to form DC Talk. Currently Michael is the frontman for a new band, named Tait in honor of his father who passed away in 1999. See full bio »