Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impaired social interaction, verbal and non-verbal communication, and restricted and repetitive behavior. Parents usually notice signs in the first two years of their child's life. 
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and autism are both general terms for a group of complex disorders of brain development. These disorders are characterized, in varying degrees, by difficulties in social interaction, verbal and nonverbal communication and repetitive behaviors. 
Understanding Autism -- the Basics. Autism is a complex neurobehavioral disorder that includes impairments in social interaction and developmental language and communication skills combined with rigid, repetitive behaviors. The disorder covers a large spectrum of symptoms, skills, and levels of impairment. Children with a possible autism spectrum disorder, though, should be evaluated by a professional team with experience in diagnosing autism. Until recently, the types of ASD have been determined by guidelines in the diagnostic manual (DSM-IV) of the American Psychiatric Association.
Autism is a complex neurobehavioral disorder that includes impairments in social interaction and developmental language and communication skills combined with rigid, repetitive behaviors. The disorder covers a large spectrum of symptoms, skills, and levels of impairment. Symptoms of autism typically appears during the first three years of life. Some children show signs from birth. Others seem to develop normally at first, only to slip suddenly into symptoms when they are 18 to 36 months old.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a range of complex neurodevelopment disorders, characterized by social impairments, communication difficulties, and restricted, repetitive, and stereotyped patterns of behavior. Autistic disorder, sometimes called autism or classical ASD, is the most severe form of ASD, while other conditions along the spectrum include a milder form known as Asperger syndrome, and childhood disintegrative disorder and pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (usually referred to as PDD-NOS).
Autism Spectrum Disorder. Autism spectrum disorder is a term used to include and replace all subtypes of autism, including autistic disorder, Asperger syndrome, childhood disintegrative disorder, and pervasive developmental disorder (not otherwise specified). 
Types of Autism. The various types of Autism are considered a “spectrum disorder” – an umbrella, with a range of autistic syndromes at varying degree of severities. It can also be depicted, and this is my preferred version while educating parents, as a rainbow where the colors blend and overlap
Autism is one of five types of autism spectrum disorder. Autism spectrum disorders are developmental brain disorders. These disorders are characterized by impaired social interaction and communication skills, and a limited range of activities and interests. Other types of autism spectrum disorder include: 1  Asperger syndrome.