Results. Creatinine and creatinine clearance tests measure creatinine levels in your blood and urine. These tests give information about how well your kidneys are working. The creatinine clearance value is found from the amounts of creatinine in the urine and blood and from the amount of urine you pass in 24 hours.
Creatinine and creatinine clearance blood tests may be arranged to help test kidney function. Creatinine is a waste product from the normal breakdown of muscle tissue. As creatinine is produced, it's filtered through the kidneys and excreted in urine.
In this article. Creatinine is a waste product from the normal breakdown of muscle tissue. As creatinine is produced, it's filtered through the kidneys and excreted in urine. Doctors measure the blood creatinine level as a test of kidney function. The kidneys ' ability to handle creatinine is called the creatinine clearance rate, which helps to estimate the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) -- the rate of blood flow through the kidneys.
A normal result is 0.7 to 1.3 mg/dL for men and 0.6 to 1.1 mg/dL for women. Women usually have a lower creatinine level than men. This is because women usually have less muscle mass than men. The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests.
The normal range for serum creatinine (in the blood) is usually between 0.6 and 1.3 milligrams per ... Creatinine in the blood increases with muscle mass, so men often have higher creatinine levels than women ... A high serum creatinine level means your kidneys aren't working well. ...
The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function.
Creatinine and creatinine clearance tests measure the level of the waste product creatinine in your blood and urine. These tests tell how well your kidneys are working. The substance creatine is formed when food is changed into energy through a process called metabolism.