Tips for Improving Your Lifeguard Salary. 1  Get additional certifications and training certificates above the minimum requirements for lifeguarding. 2  Work your way up in the field to a position as a supervisor or manager at an aquatic facility. 3  Use lifeguarding as a platform to launch another career. 4  Another idea for branching into other ... Texas comes in #2 for highest employment and New York is #2 for highest wages. While these wages sound good for a summer job, the numbers are hardly tempting for anyone wanting to make a full-time career out of
Read More... A lifeguard is responsible for ensuring swimmers' safety and well being in swimming environments such as public pools and beaches. Lifeguards hold a physical job that requires the ability to swim and perform rescues for individuals in distress. Proper knowledge of AED, CPR and similar life-saving techniques is needed; proper first aid skills are mandatory, as is lifeguard certification. Their hours vary depending on their facility's hours of operation and available shifts. A lifeguard must ensure that all beach-or pool goers are abiding by the rules at all times. Lifeguards must also be knowledgeable about-and able to share-information on current water conditions.
The average wage for a Lifeguard is AU$20.65 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 10 years' experience in this field. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Serves as a lifeguard at the Recreation Center pool; Answers inquiries and gives information pertaining to the gymnasium, pool, and athletic programs;... 4 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all City of Hoover, AL jobs in Hoover, AL-Hoover jobs. 2  Salary Search: Recreation Assistant salaries in Hoover, AL. Must have Lifeguard certification, as well as CPR/First Aid certification. Must adhere to and enforce Hotel Safety Standards and Pool Safety Rules.... Starwood Hotels - 25 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide Inc jobs in Honolulu, HI-Honolulu jobs.
(United States). The average wage for a Lifeguard is $8.90 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 10 years in this career. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. Their hours vary depending on their facility's hours of operation and available shifts. A lifeguard must ensure that all beach-or pool goers are abiding by the rules at all times. Lifeguards must also be knowledgeable about-and able to share-information on current water conditions.
Lifeguard Salary. The average lifeguard salary (according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics in their Occupational Outlook Handbook for 2010-2011) for the lowest paid lifeguards is $7.64 an hour while the highest paid make $13.74 or more an hour. Texas comes in #2 for highest employment and New York is #2 for highest wages. While these wages sound good for a summer job, the numbers are hardly tempting for anyone wanting to make a full-time career out of lifeguarding.
We hire lifeguards in states up and down the East Coast. If you’re a lifeguard looking for a year-round or summer job, you’ve come to the right place. Through our lifeguard program Guard for Life, we hire over 6,000 lifeguards every year. That means we have tons of jobs available and we probably manage a pool in your area. 
Cedar Grove and Wolfe's Pond beaches are open through Labor Day, all other beaches are open through Sunday, September 13 and the pools are open from late June through Labor Day. Lifeguards work 48 hours each week and first-year lifeguards will earn a minimum of $13.57 an hour, for a weekly salary of over $650.00. Become an NYC Parks Lifeguard. One of the best jobs in New York City, lifeguarding allows participants to remain in top physical condition while also helping to keep millions of New Yorkers safe.
According to an article from USA Today about the average wage for a full-time lifeguard in Newport Beach, most of the beach lifeguards in this California city earn over $100,000 a year! Texas comes in #2 for highest employment and New York is #2 for highest wages. While these wages sound good for a summer job, the numbers are hardly tempting for anyone wanting to make a full-time career out of lifeguarding.
Pool lifeguards earn between £11,000 and £20,000 per annum, or work on an hourly rate of £5 - £10 per hour, depending on the place they are working. It is common for lifeguards to increase their income by taking additional qualifications as swimming coach, personal trainer, fitness coach etc. Additionally lifeguards must have one of the following qualifications (lifeguarding qualifications are valid for 2 years only, at which point they must be re-assessed). Pool lifeguards 1  : National Pool Lifeguard Qualification (NPLQ); this is awarded by the Royal Life Saving Society UK (RLSS).