The kingdom is a constitutional monarchy with Norodom Sihamoni, a monarch chosen by the Royal Throne Council, as head of state. The head of government is Hun Sen, who is currently the longest serving non-royal leader in South East Asia and has ruled Cambodia for over 25 years. The Prime Minister of Cambodia, an office held by Hun Sen since 1985, is the head of government, while the King of Cambodia (currently Norodom Sihamoni) is the head of state. The prime minister is appointed by the king, on the advice and with the approval of the National Assembly.
[prɑteh kampuciə] , Prateh Kampuchea), literally Country of Kampuchea. Kampuchea is commonly known as Cambodia in English and Cambodge/Kamboj in French. Kampuchea is more widely known to Easterners and Cambodia is more widely known to Westerners. The Prime Minister of Cambodia, an office held by Hun Sen since 1985, is the head of government, while the King of Cambodia (currently Norodom Sihamoni) is the head of state. The prime minister is appointed by the king, on the advice and with the approval of the National Assembly.
Detailed records of a political structure on territory, what is now modern day Cambodia first appear in Chinese annals in reference to Funan, a polity that encompassed the southernmost part of the Indochinese peninsula during the 1st to 6th centuries. The history of Cambodia, a country in mainland Southeast Asia, can be traced back to at least the 5th millennium BC.
Home Earth Continents Asia Cambodia. Destination Cambodia, this is a virtual travel guide to Kampuchea (the local name of the country). Here you will find comprehensive information about Cambodia in its diversity: geography, economy, science, people, culture, environment, government and history. 
Fact Sheet. More information about Cambodia is available on the Cambodia Country Page and from other Department of State publications and other sources listed at the end of this fact sheet. U.S.-CAMBODIA RELATIONS.
Cambodia became a protectorate of France in 1863, and gained independence in 1953. The Vietnam War extended into Cambodia with the US bombing of Cambodia from 1969 until 1973. Following the Cambodian coup of 1970, the deposed king gave his support to his former enemies, the Khmer Rouge. The Prime Minister of Cambodia, an office held by Hun Sen since 1985, is the head of government, while the King of Cambodia (currently Norodom Sihamoni) is the head of state. The prime minister is appointed by the king, on the advice and with the approval of the National Assembly.
Geography. Situated on the Indochinese peninsula, Cambodia is bordered by Thailand and Laos on the north and Vietnam on the east and south. The Gulf of Thailand is off the western coast. The size of Missouri, the country consists chiefly of a large alluvial plain ringed by mountains with the Mekong River to the east. History. The area that is present-day Cambodia came under Khmer rule about 600, when the region was at the center of a vast empire that stretched over most of Southeast Asia. Under the Khmers, who were Hindus, a magnificent temple complex was constructed at Angkor.
Cambodia (/kaemˈboʊdiə/ ; Kæmˈboʊdiə: khmer , កម្ពុជា, [kampuchea]), kɑmˈpuˈciə officially known as The kingdom Of (Cambodia: khmer , ព្រះរាជាណាចក្រកម្ពុជា Preăh Reacheanachak) réachéanachâk kampŭchea kâmpŭchéa and once Known As, the khmer empire is a country located in the southern Portion Of the Indochina Peninsula. in southeast asia The Prime Minister of Cambodia, an office held by Hun Sen since 1985, is the head of government, while the King of Cambodia (currently Norodom Sihamoni) is the head of state. The prime minister is appointed by the king, on the advice and with the approval of the National Assembly.
Tweet. Thearavada Buddhism is the official religion in Cambodia which is practiced by 95 percent of the population-- just like that of Thailand, Burma, Sri Lanka. However, Christianity and Cham Muslim are being active and popular among a large number of population as well in the capital and provinces, showing a sign of growth. 