Opossums prefer low, damp, wooded streams and swamps. Farming areas having hedgerows and small, wooded streams are preferred over densely forested upland areas. In many ways, possums are cursed animals. Not only do they have small brains, they are not very fast, and are easily killed by coyotes, farm dogs, fox and owls.
The Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana), or opossum as it is commonly known, is a native mammal in Georgia. Many people are familiar with opossums, but there are several aspects of the opossum with which people are unfamiliar.
Weights can vary based on the animal’s habitat; populations in urban areas tend to weigh 34% more than those from rural areas. Body and tail length estimates also vary; males have an average body length of 40.8 cm, with a tail length of 29.4 cm, whereas female body lengths average 40.6 cm, with a tail length of 28.1 cm.
The opossum (also called possum) is the only marsupial (female with a pouch) in North America. They are about the size of a cat, have black to gray fur, and long, pointed noses (pink in color). Opossums have many teeth, more than any other land mammal, and a prehensile tail, one that can grasp or hold.
There are more than 60 different species of opossum, which are often called possums. The most notable is the Virginia opossum or common opossum—the only marsupial (pouched mammal) found in the United States and Canada. A female opossum gives birth to helpless young as tiny as honeybees.
The predators of true possums, which live in Australia, are eagles, hawks, owls and quolls. Foxes, which have been introduced to Australia, are also predators of possums. Po … ssums should not be confused with opossums, which live in North America, and are not related to possums.
True possums are found only in Australia and some of the islands of Oceania. They are quite different to the North American opossum. Possums live in trees hollows and logs in their natural habitat, which is bushland, wet sclerophyll forest and tall eucalypt forest, and temperate rainforest. Possums are also found in farming and urban areas within Australia.