Along with unrivaled beauty, myth depicts mermaids with heart-stoppingly luscious voices. Alluring voices, rendering anyone within earshot a quivering mound of meat jelly (did I really say meat jelly? hmm). They are matrons of enchantment, entreating sailors with beguiling beauty, grace and mesmerizing melodies. They are also shown holding mirrors in art-a symbol of the moon which speaks of a reflective nature (maybe symbolic of self-admiration too). Far from vain, mermaids are elusive and rarely seen-this could be taken for modesty-but I like to think their scarcity is due to shrewd discernment.
Answer 2: Just some interesting topics on Mermaids: Mermaid-female Merman-Male This symbol could also represent 'Derceto', or 'Atargatis' she was a Syrian deity and was the goddess of fish. She was half woman from the waist up and half fish from the waist down [Mermaid]. And 'Dagon', Chief god of the Philistines. Tattoos do not have to symbolize anything or can have multiple meanings. It is relative to and only to the person they are on. Only that person would know the specific reasoning behind why she or he got whatever tatttoo they choose to get.
Goddess of the Sea. Mermaid Symbolism and Meaning. . . Since the first times that men have ventured into the seas and oceans, there have been tales, fables and stories of mermaids. The stories began as men far from land or familiar ports spotted mermaids in the sea or on a rocky outcropping. Crystal energies and knowledge are deeply connected to mermaid symbolism and meaning, and their ties to Atlantis. To have connection to the sacred mermaid, is to have Goddess energies, is to have intuitive abilities, is to be a healer of the heart and of the ocean.
Mermaids have been a popular subject of art and literature in recent centuries, such as in Hans Christian Andersen 's well-known fairy tale . The Little Mermaid  (1836). They have subsequently been depicted in operas, paintings, books, films and comics. Thereafter, she took the form of a mermaid — human above the waist, fish below — although the earliest representations of Atargatis showed her as a fish with a human head and arm, similar to the Babylonian god Ea.
Your Feminine Side. Mermaids are creatures associated with femininity. This is not just because they are usually portrayed as beautiful women with long, flowing hair and scallop shelled bras, but because they reside in the water. Water is considered a feminine element-- associated with emotion and intuition. They are half human, half fish. Sometimes dreaming of a mermaid is reminding yourself that there is more than one side to you. Perhaps you are focusing too much on one side of your nature but have been ignoring the other side.
Naturally, mermaid meaning and symbolism also deals with love as they are frequently associated with love goddesses like Aphrodite/Venus. They are also affiliated with sea goddesses like Amphitrites, Tethys, Calypso and the Norse sea goddess, Ran. rán They are also shown holding mirrors in art-a symbol of the moon which speaks of a reflective nature (maybe symbolic of self-admiration too). Far from vain, mermaids are elusive and rarely seen-this could be taken for modesty-but I like to think their scarcity is due to shrewd discernment.
Churches have long used the symbolism of the mermaid to depict vanity as one of the seven deadly sins. Painted swimming amongst schools of fish, and depicted in murals throughout churches to encourage man to refrain from the Devil's ways, mermaids take on an entirely different connotation in Greek Mythology. 
I would assume a love of the ocean, swimming or mermaids even a vacation to or being from a place near the ocean that they want to remember. Tattoos do not have to symbolize anything or can have multiple meanings. It is relative to and only to the person they are on. Only that person would know the specific reasoning behind why she or he got whatever tatttoo they choose to get.
A mermaid is a legendary aquatic creature with the upper body of a female human and the tail of a fish. Mermaids appear in the folklore of many cultures worldwide, including the Near East, Europe, Africa and Asia. The first stories appeared in ancient Assyria, in which the goddess Atargatis transformed herself into a mermaid out of shame for accidentally killing her human lover. Thereafter, she took the form of a mermaid — human above the waist, fish below — although the earliest representations of Atargatis showed her as a fish with a human head and arm, similar to the Babylonian god Ea.
Some legends say that the mermaid is a being from the lost land and time of Atlantis. The mythology of mermaid symbolism and meaning tells us that the mermaid was able to shape-shift back and forth from human to mermaid form. This suggests that the mermaid who has come from Atlantis is of a peaceful and much higher vibration. Crystal energies and knowledge are deeply connected to mermaid symbolism and meaning, and their ties to Atlantis. To have connection to the sacred mermaid, is to have Goddess energies, is to have intuitive abilities, is to be a healer of the heart and of the ocean.