Ototoxic drugs (such as aspirin) can also cause subjective tinnitus, as they may cause hearing loss, or increase the damage done by exposure to loud noise. Those damages can occur even at doses that are not considered ototoxic. Tinnitus is also a classical side effect of quinidine, a Class IA anti-arrhythmic. Other causes include: ear infections, disease of the heart or blood vessels, Meniere's disease, brain tumors, exposure to certain medications, a previous head injury and earwax. It is more common in those with depression.
•ethacrynic acid (Edecrin) •furosemide (Lasix) •hydrochlorthiazide (Hydrodiuril) •methylchlorthizide (Enduron) Adapted from the pamphlet: Ototoxic Medications: Drugs that can cause hearing loss and tinnitus Article by Orin S. Kaufman, D.O. League for the Hard of Hearing. 
List of Drugs That Cause Tinnitus. Below you can find a list of ototoxic (damage to the ears) drugs from the Physicians Daily Reference that may cause tinnitus as a side effect. If you are taking any of these drugs and suffer from tinnitus then you should consult your doctor about alternative medications. 
One of the most common causes is noise-induced hearing loss. Other causes include: ear infections, disease of the heart or blood vessels, Meniere's disease, brain tumors, exposure to certain medications, a previous head injury and earwax. It is more common in those with depression.
Medicines That Can Cause Tinnitus. Many prescription and nonprescription medicines can cause ringing in the ears (tinnitus). A few examples are: 1  Aspirin, ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin), and naproxen (such as Aleve). 2  Some blood pressure and heart medicines. 3  Some antidepressants. 4  Some cancer medicines.
Ototoxic medications known to cause permanent damage include certain aminoglycoside antibiotics, such as gentamicin (family history may increase susceptibility), and cancer chemotherapy drugs, such as cisplatin and carboplatin. Certain medications can damage the ear, resulting in hearing loss, ringing in the ear, or balance disorders. These drugs are considered ototoxic.
Be sure to inform your doctor of all medications you are taking, because tinnitus can be a side effect of some drugs. If the source of the problem remains unclear, you may be sent to an otologist or an otolaryngologist (both ear specialists) or an audiologist (a hearing specialist) for hearing and nerve tests. Medications for Tinnitus. Many drugs have been studied for treating tinnitus. For some, treatment with low doses of anti-anxiety drugs -- such as Valium or antidepressants such as Elavil -- help reduce tinnitus.
Most tinnitus is associated with damage to the auditory (hearing) system, although it can also be associated with other events or factors: jaw, head, or neck injury; exposure to certain drugs; nerve damage; or vascular (blood-flow) problems. Hearing loss from exposure to loud noise: Acute hearing depends on the microscopic endings of the hearing nerve in the inner ear. Exposure to loud noise can injure these nerve endings and result in hearing loss. Hearing damage from noise exposure is considered to be the leading cause of tinnitus.
Get the Facts Here. Even though a large number of drugs or medications reportedly cause tinnitus, it would perhaps be fair to say that tinnitus occurs mostly as side effects that are associated with them. 