Insurance Factors. Insurance that includes a strong dental plan significantly reduces the out-of-pocket cost. Good policies cover between 40 percent and 80 percent of the total root canal costs, with 60 percent being about average. Most dental plans have an annual maximum limit of $1,000 to $1,500.
Root canal coverage would be the job of dental insurance. Even with dental insurance, however, you may have to pay some of the expenses of your root canal out of your own pocket. Forbes reports that root canals can run anywhere from $300 to more than $1,000, and dental insurance often has very low limits.
A root canal involves the removal of the pulp of a tooth to clear away infection, then the cleaning, shaping and filling of the tooth's root canals to protect it from further infection. The cost of root canals with insurance vary by dentist, the affected tooth, and the dental insurance plan.
A strong dental plan should cover about 50 percent of root canal costs, making the out-of-pocket cost between $150 and $500. Root canals scare many people because of the expected discomfort. Some people also fear the cost, which depends on a number of factors.
If it only offers $200 worth of coverage for a root canal and your final root canal bill is $1,000, you are responsible for the remaining $800. Dental insurance also has an annual maximum amount it will pay out, regardless of any procedure.
The average cost is $300 to $1000 for a root canal depending on the area in the U.S. the dentist is located. Dental Insurance For Root Canal-Here Are The Cheapest Rates We Found Most insurance plans cover for root canal depending on the plan selected.
Enter your Zip Code to find dental insurance for root canal. What Is A Root Canal-Here Is An Easy Explanation. Root canals are a part of dentistry called endodontics, which is concerned with the pathology of dental pulp and the area surrounding the root.
The cost varies by dental plan, but most PPO dental insurance plans will pay 35%-50% of the costs for root canal. With a DHMO plan you might pay as little as $400. The only way to know for sure is to get a Free Quote and browse the plans available in your area.