How to Become a Probation Officer. Probation officers are responsible for overseeing people who are convicted of crimes, but who have been released on probation or parole. They fulfill many roles for these individuals, including offering treatment options, helping them find jobs, and keeping track of their progress
Step 1: Fulfill General Requirements. The prerequisites for being a probation officer vary by state, but according to the BLS, most state probation agencies require candidates to be 21 years of age or older. However, applicants cannot be older than 37 years of age. All applicants must pass a criminal background check for felony convictions. Step 2: Earn a Degree. Typically, probation officer candidates need a bachelor's or master's degree. Some employers may also require 1-2 years of work experience. Possible majors include criminal justice, social work, psychology or counseling.
Training and Education. The minimum education required for probation officers is a bachelor’s degree in a human service related field. The best degree to obtain if you are interested in becoming a probation officer is either in social work or in criminal justice. Other options include sociology, criminology, or psychology. Learn more about how to be a parole officer. The job of a probation officer includes helping these individuals find treatment options, gain employment, and tracking the individuals overall progress when they are released from prison.
Probation Officer Eligibility in Texas. Anyone with ambitions of learning how to become a probation officer in Texas must be familiar with the eligibility requirements outlined by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. For instance, no one that volunteers, works, or is employed as a peace officer can qualify to be a probation officer. 
Education & Training. At a minimum, probation officers should have a bachelor’s degree in a field related to human service. The best degrees for probation officers include social work and criminal justice. Other possible areas of study are psychology, sociology, or criminology. Probation officers are responsible for overseeing people who are convicted of crimes, but who have been released on probation or parole.
Requirements to become a probation officer. The formal education needed for probation officers is similar to that of parole officers. Carlin says a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice, corrections, human services or psychology is typically required. 
Probation officers ensure that adult or juvenile offenders meet conditions stipulated by the court in lieu of incarceration. Additionally, those criminals who are released from jail are often put on probation to facilitate a seamless transition back to civilian life. Step 2: Earn a Degree. Typically, probation officer candidates need a bachelor's or master's degree. Some employers may also require 1-2 years of work experience. Possible majors include criminal justice, social work, psychology or counseling.
Requirements for Becoming a Probation Officer. Probation officers require some formal education. Learn about the requirements to become a probation officer, including education and job duties, to see if this career is right for you. 
Exact training requirements vary by employer, however it is typical for probation officer candidates to have some law enforcement training prior to applying. Ways to gain experience include serving as a corrections officer, police officer, or similar law enforcement agent. Probation officers are responsible for overseeing people who are convicted of crimes, but who have been released on probation or parole.
1. Get your bachelor's degree. The educational requirements to be a probation officer will vary by region or agency. However, a bachelor's or master's degree in criminal justice, social work or psychology is usually required. Some agencies may accept work experience in correction, parole services or court services in lieu of education. A probation officer, sometimes referred to as a PO, is an officer of the court. To be a probation officer entails supervising, implementing and enforcing court-ordered probation given to a convicted offender. If you feel like you have the stuff to get criminal offenders on the right path, this page is for you.