1 Do that first so all your data is backed up in iTunes. 2  If you're using iCloud, you might want to switch it over to your computer for now just to be sure your information is safe. 3  Put your iPhone into DFU mode. 4  To do this, reboot your iPhone by holding down the power and home buttons simultaneously for about 10 seconds. Just follow these steps: 1  Even when your iPhone is locked up, you can still sync it with your computer. 2  Do that first so all your data is backed up in iTunes. 3
Connect to iTunes. If the computer you normally sync your iPhone with is nearby, you can restore your phone with iTunes. Connect your iPhone to the computer with the USB cord and open iTunes. ITunes will sync your phone and create a new backup. Once the sync is finished, restore your phone using the “Restore iPhone” button and enter a new passcode once the restore is complete. A four-digit password on your iPhone prevents unauthorized people from using your phone or stealing your information, but if you forget that passcode it prevents you from using your phone too. All is not lost if you’ve spaced on your passcode, however
If you try to unlock your iPhone but you have forgotten your passcode you will end up locking your phone as shown below. After too many attempts, your iPhone will say “iPhone is disabled, connect to iTunes”. You can unlock an iPhone if you forgot your passcode. You do this by restoring your iPhone from the last backup – this removes the passcode from your locked iPhone while retaining your data. This may take a few hours to complete.
283 Views. If you enter your iPhone password, the only way is to restore it. There are three main ways to do this: 1. Restore Using iTunes: Connect your iPhone to any iTunes PC and take a backup of the phone. If it asks for a password, you should try changing another PC and then backup it. Next, Restore the iPhone and restore it from the backup. 2. Restore using Find My iPhone: If you have enabled the Find my iPhone feature on your iPhone, you can restore it from any browser. Go to iCloud and ener your Apple ID and password.
1 Connect your device to the computer you synced with. 2  Open iTunes. 3  If asked for a passcode, try another computer you've synced with, or use recovery mode. 4  Wait for iTunes to sync your device and make a backup. 5  If it doesn't, learn what to do. 6  Once the sync and backup have finished,click Restore [your device] . Erase using Find my iPhone. If you set up Find My iPhone on your iOS device or Mac, you can use iCloud to erase and restore it. 1  From another device, go to icloud.com/find. 2  If prompted, sign in with your Apple ID. 3  Click All Devices at the top of your browser window.
Restore using recovery mode. If you've never synced with iTunes or set up Find My iPhone in iCloud, you'll need to use recovery mode to restore your device. This will erase the device and its passcode. 1  Connect your iOS device to your computer and open iTunes. Erase using Find my iPhone. If you set up Find My iPhone on your iOS device or Mac, you can use iCloud to erase and restore it. 1  From another device, go to icloud.com/find. 2  If prompted, sign in with your Apple ID. 3  Click All Devices at the top of your browser window.
1. Turn off the device. Hold down the Power button then swipe it until it turns off. 1  Use this method if you have not synced your device to your computer before, or your computer is asking for your device's passcode. 2  Unfortunately, resetting your passcode using this method will wipe all of the data off of your iPhone. 
1 Put your iPhone into DFU mode. 2  To do this, reboot your iPhone by holding down the power and home buttons simultaneously for about 10 seconds. 3  When you see the Apple logo, let go of the power button but continue holding down the home button. Just follow these steps: 1  Even when your iPhone is locked up, you can still sync it with your computer. 2  Do that first so all your data is backed up in iTunes. 3  If you're using iCloud, you might want to switch it over to your computer for now just to be sure your information is safe.