A U.S. utility patent, explained above, is generally granted for 20 years from the date the patent application is filed; however, periodic fees are required to maintain the enforceability of the patent. A design patent is generally granted protection for 14 years measured from the date the design patent is granted.
How long a patent lasts depends on the type of patent being issued and the country issuing the patent. For example, under recent changes in the laws, in the United States, patents are now granted for a term of 20 years from the date of application (14 years for design patents).
Intellectual property is a property right that can be protected under federal and state law, including copyrightable works, ideas, discoveries, and inventions. The term intellectual property relates to intangible property such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, and tradesecrets.
1 If the work was published between 1923 and 1963 and it was renewed, the copyright lasts 95 years from the date of first publication. 2  If the work was published between 1964 and 1977, the copyright lasts for 95 years from the date of
Different types of intellectual property are protected by different means. In the U.S., patents may be available to any person who invents or discovers any new and useful process, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof..
Patent protection doesn’t last forever. Indeed, patents are typically the shortest lived of all forms of intellectual property protection. When a patent expires, the invention described by the patent falls into the public domain: it can be used by anyone without permission from the owner of the expired patent.
How long do patents last? Today, patents last 20 years from the filing date of the application. For patents that existed before June 8, 1995, the duration of the patent was 17 years from the issuance of the patent or 20 years from the filing date, whichever was longer. Design patents are limited to 14 years from the date of issuance, while plant patents last 17 years from the date of issuance.