Feathers symbolize creativity, spiritual evaluation and rebirth. Most common places for a peacock feather are ribs, scapulas or a side of the lower back. Peacock feather should, by all means, be done in full color – it is the colors that make it so beautiful. Back in 18th century the peacock was a symbol of tailors. The peacock feather tattoo, for this reason, is considered to have a meaning for people who are dealing with fabrics which are fine just as the peacock feather is.
Another symbol the peacock stands for is renewal. The reason for that is that the feathers of the entire tail of a peacock are renewed each year. Some cultures believe that a peacock or 2 peacocks stand guard at the entrance to the Gates of Heaven. Peacock Symbolism in Hindu Culture. To the Hindu the peacock is associated with the deity that symbolizes patience, kindness, compassion, and good luck. The peacock is the national bird of India.
Peacock feather tattoo design incorporates two meanings – the general meaning of feather tattoos, and the meaning of peacock tattoos. Know what your tattoo means before you get it – you don’t want to end up with something that carries a symbolism you wouldn’t like. Back in 18th century the peacock was a symbol of tailors. The peacock feather tattoo, for this reason, is considered to have a meaning for people who are dealing with fabrics which are fine just as the peacock feather is.
The peacock is also seen as a symbol of resurrection: When the peacock sheds his feathers, he grows more brilliant ones than those he lost. 2. One may also hear the opinion that the peacock is the symbol of (ironically) humility, since it has great beauty, yet hides it all behind itself. The peacock’s feather is sometimes associated with St. Barbara. 1 Also, The peacock, (due to an ancient myth that Peacock flesh did not decay), is seen as a symbol of immortality.
Peacock Symbolism and Meaning. Peacock Symbolism. The peacock is a possessor of some of the most admired human characteristics, and is a symbol of integrity and the beauty we can achieve when we endeavor to show our true colors. In history, myth, legend and lore, the Peacock symbolism carries portents of: Nobility, Holiness, Guidance, Protection and Watchfulness. I hope you enjoyed these thoughts on the symbolic meaning of the peacock. If you liked this article, you may also like my page on peacock symbolism for tattoo ideas here. Check out the links at the end of this page for more bird meanings and totem info. Thanks for reading! 1  Nature Symbols.
The peacock is a wonderful bird, it is colorful and beautiful, the first time you see one, it is spellbinding. It has often been believed that keeping peacock feathers in your house will bring you bad luck, so there is the first symbol that peacocks stand for, bad luck. Peacock Symbolism in Hindu Culture. To the Hindu the peacock is associated with the deity that symbolizes patience, kindness, compassion, and good luck. The peacock is the national bird of India.
Peacocks are also known to be a symbol of the immortality of Jesus Christ. To the buddhist, peacocks symbolize wisdom. While Native Americans believe that the peacock is a symbol of wholeness, beauty, and dignity. Peacock Symbolism in Hindu Culture. To the Hindu the peacock is associated with the deity that symbolizes patience, kindness, compassion, and good luck. The peacock is the national bird of India.
The peacock is a destroyer of serpents and the bestiaries tell us it could swallow the poisonous venom without harm. It then used the poisons it swallowed to create its colorful plumage. For this reason, its blood was believed to dispel evil spirits, and its feathers and meat to cure snake-bite and sickness. So, I was not surprised to find a wide gamut of rich symbolic meanings for the peacock. Catholics adopted the symbol of the peacock to represent resurrection, renewal and immortality. This came from the ancient legend that the flesh of the peacock did not decay.
In secular terms, Indians see the peacock as a symbol of love and beauty (associations shared by other cultures) but it also posses a rather unmelodious cry that, apart from being painful to the ears, is considered by some to be an early warning of the rainy season/monsoon. 