PiYo is a hybrid, athletic workout, which combines the mind/body practices of yoga and Pilates, as well as the principles of stretch, strength training, conditioning and dynamic movement. During a PiYo class, you will find yourself standing in a yoga pose one minute, and down on the floor in a Pilates pose the next! It is a pre-designed class that will really get your heart rate going as it features various styles of yoga and Pilates in continuous movement and flow from one exercise to another. Today’s PiYo post is from Candice at Chia Seed Me. When Candice first introduced herself (on the bus to the Frito Lay tour) she said she was a yoga teacher, which I thought was pretty cool. But when I got to talk to her later, she said she was actually a PiYo instructor.
What You Get With Your Program. PiYo includes 8 DVDs, focusing on technique, intensity, or specific areas of your body, as well as a 60-day workout calendar and quick start guide: Here’s a list of DVD titles: 1  Align: The Fundamentals — Learn how to properly execute the most important movements in the program. If you travel on business, for example, PiYo can be a godsend. Just plug the DVD into your laptop and work out in the privacy of your own hotel room. Speaking of privacy, there’s another group that PiYo works for, and that is the people who are unable to get to the gym or hate working out in public.
Fun, great workout! PiYo is a fun, challenging class fusing Pi lates and Yo ga. You will burn calories, tone muscles, work on balance and get a great stretch! The class is a little different each time, but always a great workout! Click on the link below to see a video giving a little taste of what you may get out of our PiYo classes. Join us on Mon and Wed mornings at 9:15 am or Thurs evening at 5:30pm at Zen & Now for PiYo! PiYo Demo.
Strengthening. The PiYo system is a total-body strengthening workout. Poses such as plank, side plank, core work, lunges and squats are key elements to engage the large and small muscles of the body. By working in and out of these poses, you build strength using your own body's resistance. PiYo is different than other yoga and Pilates blends in many ways. While it does blend together these two mind-body exercises, it also adds in components of martial arts and dance for a more intense, kick-booty workout.
PiYo is a total-body fitness system designed to whip you into shape from head to toe. It combines the practices of Pilates and yoga to help you build strength, lose weight, increase flexibility and have a great time doing it. PiYo is different than other yoga and Pilates blends in many ways. While it does blend together these two mind-body exercises, it also adds in components of martial arts and dance for a more intense, kick-booty workout.
PiYo™ is the perfect blend of Pilates/Yoga, sports stretch, dance stretch, athletics and more. This is a stretch workout for those who want more than just flexibility; they want to burn calories and build muscle! 
My final thoughts: PiYo Define: Upper Body is fun, engaging, effective, and I look forward to it every week. However, as mentioned above, if you go into this (or any of the PiYo workouts) with a lazy attitude, you will get lazy results. With cardio workouts you can give less than 100% and still get a decent workout. 
Pilates + Yoga + nonstop movement! PiYo® LIVE combines the muscle-sculpting, core-firming benefits of Pilates with the strength and flexibility of flowing yoga movements. You’ll use your body weight to perform a series of continuous, targeted moves to define every single muscle—big and small. This workout is so in-demand that Beachbody® recently released a PiYo home DVD program so you can still sweat and make your power moves on those days you can’t make it to the gym!
PiYo (or Yogalates) is a type of exercise that is a blend of Pilates and Yoga. The Pilates part strengthens and tones the body, while the Yoga part promotes mindfulness and relaxation. As such, PiYo provides a total mind-body workout. 
Not with PiYo…PiYo combines the muscle-sculpting, core-firming benefits of Pilates with the strength and flexibility advantages of yoga. And, we crank up the speed to deliver a true fat-burning, low-impact workout that leaves your body looking long, lean, and incredibly defined. She originally created the PiYo class because she wanted a workout that would provide hardcore results—without straining your body. Chalene loved the benefits of yoga and Pilates but got bored with the sitting still in yoga and the microscopic movements in Pilates. She wanted to move and burn crazy calories!