The golden hamster or Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus), is a member of the subfamily Cricetinae, the hamsters. In the wild, they are now considered vulnerable. Their natural geographical range is limited to the north of Syria and the south of Turkey, in arid habitats. Golden hamsters originate from Syria and were first described and officially named in 1839 by British zoologist George Robert Waterhouse. Waterhouse's original specimen was a female hamster—he named it Cricetus auratus or the golden hamster. The skin of the specimen is kept at the Natural History Museum in London.
Hamster Habitat Hamsters come from the Middle East or Southern Europe. Hamsters come out out at night because they are nocturnal and they sleep during the day you can train your hamster to … sleep at night by taking it out like twice during the day and at 7:00 PM or so.
The most common rodent pet, the Golden Hamster, is native to Syria. At one time, hamsters ran amok in that country; eventually, farmers grew tired of the critters digging up their root vegetables, and trained dogs to hunt them. Others found a profitable trade in hamster fur. 
Report Abuse. The Syrian or Golden Hamster, the most commonly seen hamster in pet shops, is native to the middle-eastern countries of Syria (hence the name), Turkey and possibly Iraq. Other less common hamsters seen come from the far-east, in Russia, Mongolia, and China. George · 7 years ago. Depending upon the breed wild hamsters come from parts of Europe, Asia, and Africa. In the wild, they build burrows to escape predators and mostly come out during dawn and dusk.
Hamsters: Notice the scientific names, not all Hamsters are even the same species of animal. There are three distinct species of animal referred to as Hamsters: Cricetulus, Phodopus, and Mesocricetus. Campbell's Russian Dwarf Hamster Scientific Name: Phodopus campbelli. (Not widely available as they do not make good pets for children, they do not like to be held, they are very territorial and extremely fast.) Chinese Hamster Scientific Name: Cricetulus griseus Originate from the deserts of northern China and Mongolia.
The name hamster is a loanword from the German, which itself derives from earlier Old High German hamustro. It is possibly related to Old Russian choměstrǔ, which is either a blend of the root of Russian khomiak hamster and a Baltic word (cf. Lithuanian staras hamster) or of Persian origin (cf. In the wild, hamsters are crepuscular and remain underground during the day to avoid being caught by predators. They feed primarily on seeds, fruits, and vegetation, and will occasionally eat burrowing insects. They have elongated cheek pouches extending to their shoulders in which they carry food back to their burrows.
Were discovered by W C Campbell in 1902 in Tuva, Asia. They are native to the steppes and semi-arid areas of central Asia, the Altay Mountains and northeastern China. They were not as some sites claim, bred by Mr. Campbell from Russian and Syrian Hamsters nor any other special breeding. (Not widely available as they do not make good pets for children, they do not like to be held, they are very territorial and extremely fast.) Chinese Hamster Scientific Name: Cricetulus griseus Originate from the deserts of northern China and Mongolia.
The less well known mouse-like hamsters come from Afghanistan where they live among pine and cork oak covered slopes, using cracks in the rocks as communal nests which they line with sheep's wool. Syrians hamsters are solitary dwellers and the females are larger and dominant. The Campbells (or Djungarian) hamsters are from Mongolia, where they live among semi-deserts and sand dunes. There are few humans there, only nomadic sheep herders in summer.
Chinese hamsters come from a little further East, where it is more populated and stony. They have a more erratic activity time, being most active in evening and early night. They are able to climb in the more rocky terrain and have short tails which help them to grip. The Campbells (or Djungarian) hamsters are from Mongolia, where they live among semi-deserts and sand dunes. There are few humans there, only nomadic sheep herders in summer.