No single test can give a definite diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis in the early stages of the condition. Doctors have to arrive at a diagnosis based on your symptoms, a physical examination and the results of x-rays, scans and blood tests. 
Blood tests to diagnose rheumatoid arthritis. Although blood tests cannot give a firm rheumatoid arthritis diagnosis, they can help doctors and specialist rheumatologists narrow down clues in the blood about arthritis and inflammation.
Various blood tests may be used to help diagnose RA, determine its severity, and detect complications of the disease. Rheumatoid Factor. In RA, antibodies in the blood that collect in the synovium of the joint are known as rheumatoid factor. In about 80% of cases of RA, blood tests reveal rheumatoid factor. 
Rheumatoid arthritis is a serious autoimmune disease that attacks the joints and other body parts. But RA can be tough to diagnose. Symptoms can mimic other illnesses, or they may flare, then fade, only to flare again somewhere else. Lab tests aren’t perfectyou can test negative for RA factors and still have it. 
1 Cyclic citrullinated peptide (CCP) antibody – may be used to help diagnose RA, especially early in the disease – potentially before symptoms even appear – and in people who are RF-negative; found in 60-70% of people with RA; when used with the RF test, CCP results can help confirm a diagnosis of RA. 
No blood test can definitively prove or rule out a diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis, but a number of tests can show possible indications of the condition. Some of the main tests used are outlined below. 
A. A. If your doctor suspects you have arthritis, he or she may have your blood drawn to determine which type of arthritis you have. In people with osteoarthritis, blood tests are not usually abnormal, but with other types of arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis, certain tests will help with a proper diagnosis. Here is a review of the different types of blood tests and markers used to diagnose arthritis and other inflammatory conditions. Related To Rheumatoid Arthritis. heart disease and ra, symptoms, exercise, juvenile arthritis, blood tests, pregnancy and ra, diet and ra, joint damage, © 2009 WebMD, LLC.
Frequently, the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis is aided by tests that rule out other diseases. The most reliable and commonly used test to help diagnose RA is a blood test that looks for a specific antibody known as  rheumatoid factor..
Blood Tests. Various blood tests may be used to help diagnose RA, determine its severity, and detect complications of the disease. Rheumatoid Factor. In RA, antibodies that collect in the synovium of the joint are known as rheumatoid factor. In about 80% of cases of RA, blood tests reveal rheumatoid factor. In-Depth From A.D.A.M. Rheumatoid arthritis can be difficult to diagnose. Many other conditions resemble it and its symptoms can develop insidiously. Blood tests and x-rays may show normal results for months after the onset of joint pain.
Tests and diagnosis. Diagnosis of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis can be difficult because joint pain can be caused by many different types of problems. No single test can confirm a diagnosis, but tests can help rule out some other conditions that produce similar signs and symptoms. Measuring the ESR may be used to rule out other conditions, to help classify the type of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and to determine the degree of inflammation. 1  C-reactive protein. 2  This blood test also measures levels of general inflammation in the body but on a different scale than the ESR. 3  Anti-nuclear antibody.