Types of raw cacao: Butter, nibs, and powder. Raw cacao (raw chocolate) can be found in several different forms. It makes frequent appearances as raw cacao nibs, as well as finely ground raw cacao powder, and many varieties of raw food bars and cookies. You can even find cacao butter in its raw form these days.
A natural chocolate diamond can be found in Africa, Russia and Australia: they are found most commonly in Australian diamond mines. The Australian diamond mine that yields t … he most chocolate diamonds is Argyle Diamond Mine in the remote region of Australia's north west. 11 people found this useful.
Phenylethylamine is also found in chocolate. It's related to amphetamines, which are strong stimulants. All of these stimulants increase the activity of neurotransmitters (brain chemicals) in parts of the brain that control our ability to pay attention and stay alert.
The nutrition information for chocolate bars is most often found printed on the wrapper. When one is eating a chocolate bar, one can peel the wrapper backwards and read with o … ne's eyes the various statistics of the calories, nutrients and ingredients of a chocolate bar.
Chocolate can be lethal for cats. Although most cats won't eat it on their own, they can be coaxed to eat it by owners and others who think they are giving the cat a treat. The toxic agent in chocolate is theobromine. It's in all kinds of chocolate, even white chocolate.
Caffeine is the most well known of these chemical ingredients, and while it's present in chocolate, it can only be found in small quantities. Theobromine, a weak stimulant, is also present, in slightly higher amounts.
From raw cacao powder to nibs and butter, learn the best uses for raw cacao products. Thanks to the modern day raw health movement, raw cacao (also known as raw chocolate!) can be found in various forms in any health food store and most certainly all over the internet.
A natural chocolate diamond can be found in Africa, Russia and Australia: they are found most commonly in Australian diamond mines. The Australian diamond mine that yields t … he most chocolate diamonds is Argyle Diamond Mine in the remote region of Australia's north west.
Chocolate can be found all over the Web. Some sites are primarily informational, others allow you to order chocolate, and some have recipes. Many sites are rather spectacular with a lot of pictures, while others are mostly text. I have selected what I consider to be the most important chocolate sites on the Web.