1 Place zucchini and garlic into a steamer basket, then place the steamer basket into the pot. 2  Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender. 3  Transfer zucchini to a large bowl. 4  Mash the garlic and put it in the bowl with the zucchini. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Bring a large pot of water to a boil. 2  Trim ends from zucchini. 3  Cut each one in half, then cut each half lengthwise into quarters. 4  Place zucchini and garlic into a steamer basket, then place the steamer basket into the pot. 5  Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender.
Vegetables. In general, the denser the vegetable, the longer you need to steam it. In addition, smaller chunks steam faster than larger ones. Assuming that your vegetables are cut in 1-inch squares, it takes 8 to 10 minutes to steam hard root vegetables such as beets, potatoes, carrots, turnips and rutabagas. Softer vegetables with higher water contents, such as zucchini and peppers, can take as little as two to three minutes. 
1 Cut each one in half, then cut each half lengthwise into quarters. 2  Place zucchini and garlic into a steamer basket, then place the steamer basket into the pot. 3  Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender. 4  Transfer zucchini to a large bowl. 5  Mash the garlic and put it in the bowl with the zucchini. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Bring a large pot of water to a boil. 2  Trim ends from zucchini. 3  Cut each one in half, then cut each half lengthwise into quarters. 4  Place zucchini and garlic into a steamer basket, then place the steamer basket into the pot. 5  Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender.
I am using a rice cooker/steamer. The recipe says to steam the zucchini until its tender. I've never dealt with zucchini squash before, so I have no idea how much water to use or if it will take 20 minutes or two hours. Update: This is embarrassing. It never occurred to me to look in my rice cooker booklet
1 Trim ends from zucchini. 2  Cut each one in half, then cut each half lengthwise into quarters. 3  Place zucchini and garlic into a steamer basket, then place the steamer basket into the pot. 4  Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender. 5  Transfer zucchini to a large bowl. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Bring a large pot of water to a boil. 2  Trim ends from zucchini. 3  Cut each one in half, then cut each half lengthwise into quarters. 4  Place zucchini and garlic into a steamer basket, then place the steamer basket into the pot. 5  Steam for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the zucchini are tender.
How Long to Steam Vegetables. Asparagus: On the stovetop, asparagus are steamed approximately four minutes for thin spears. Add an extra minute or two for thicker spears. For asparagus, time steaming in the microwave is relatively the same: four to six minutes. In the microwave, steam green beans for three to four minutes. Peas: Peas steamed on the stovetop take about three minutes. In the microwave, steam peas for one to two minutes. Zucchini: On the stovetop, steam zucchini for six to seven minutes. In the microwave, steam for six to eight minutes.
I am using a rice cooker/steamer. The recipe says to steam the zucchini until its tender. I'm preparing it for my baby girl and I've never dealt with zucchini squash before, so I have no idea how much water to use or if it will take 20 minutes or two hours. Source(s): long steam zucchini squash for: https://tr.im/weisJ. Rudiger · 2 months ago.
1 4) Place the steamer filled with vegetables into or (or on top of) the pan of water. 2  5) Cover the pot and cook over medium to high heat for 3-5 minutes depending on your vegetable choice with the hardest vegetables getting the most time. 3  Make sure to cover the pot to trap the steam. Steaming vegetables is actually quite easy: 1  1) Rinse your fresh vegetables with water. 2  2) Put 1/2 cup of water in the bottom of a pan. 3  3) Place your vegetables into a steamer. 4  4) Place the steamer filled with vegetables into or (or on top of) the pan of water. 5  5) Cover the pot and cook over medium to high heat for 3-5 minutes depending on your ...