Overview. Regardless of whether you work out to lose weight, build muscle, enhance health or compete in sports, what you eat before, during and after a workout affects your results. Ideally, you fuel properly to perform at your best without feeling weak, sluggish or nauseous. With those carbs, include a small amount of protein to help squelch hunger. Examples of good pre-workout foods: a banana with a half ounce of almonds, yogurt with a drizzle of honey, crackers with peanut butter, or a serving of whole grain cereal with milk. The size of your pre-workout snack depends on the intended duration and intensity of your exercise session. If you're going on an all-out cardiovascular workout lasting more than an hour, you should take in a 300- to 400-calorie snack a few hours before working out
The Importance of Eating Before Your Workout. Whether you eat or don't eat before exercise, research shows the body burns the same amount of fat. However, you can actually cause muscle loss if you regularly work out on an empty stomach. RELATED: Eat one of these snacks before your next workout and turn your body into a fat-burning machine! What to Eat Before Your Workout. The best pre-workout bite contains some form of complex carbohydrate and a protein.
“They’re the two key things your body needs—and right after you work out is when your blood circulates best.” If you’re main goal is to build muscle, eat at least 30 grams of protein and 30 to 35 grams of carbs within 15 minutes of your workout. Well, don’t. The food you eat after hitting the gym just may be the most important food you eat all day. See, muscles store excess energy in the form of glycogen and protein and, when you work out, the body burns fuel from your pre-workout meal, then it breaks down glycogen stored in muscles.
Not so fast! Here, the best foods to eat before and after a workout, so you can fuel up the right way. Munch on these for your best sweat session yet. ‹ 1  prev. 2  next ›.
1 Rice and whole grains replenish your muscles. 2  Turkey or tuna sandwiches are good choices of foods to eat after working out. 3  Add whole grain spaghetti or wheat bread to your 5 best foods. 4  Meat: The protein in meat is just as good as protein drinks when it comes to post-exercise foods. 1 Fruits and vegetables: Fresh fruit and vegetables are excellent. 2  Apples, bananas, grapes, salad with eggs, or fruit salad make for good, healthy post-work out snacks. 3  However, eating a salad big enough for nine people, loaded with high calorie ranch dressing is not good either. 4  Eat in moderation.
Whip up one of these healthy peanut butter recipes for your next snack or meal. What to Eat After Your Workout. According to the Journal of the International Society of Sports Medicine, consuming protein and a little carbohydrate is best immediately after exercise. RELATED: Eat one of these snacks before your next workout and turn your body into a fat-burning machine! What to Eat Before Your Workout. The best pre-workout bite contains some form of complex carbohydrate and a protein.
Working hard makes you hungry, but of course, you have to worry about putting in what you just burned off. Here are the 5 best foods to eat after working out. 1  Protein shakes: Protein is a good way to build muscle. 2  Working out, especially lifting weights, can wear down muscle tissue. 3  Protein helps maintain, repair, and rebuild muscle. 4  If you cannot find a good protein shake, eat a protein bar. 1 Fruits and vegetables: Fresh fruit and vegetables are excellent. 2  Apples, bananas, grapes, salad with eggs, or fruit salad make for good, healthy post-work out snacks. 3  However, eating a salad big enough for nine people, loaded with high calorie ranch dressing is not good either. 4  Eat in moderation.
Pre-workout: A low-glycemic-index meal: If you're the type of person who can't work out on an empty stomach, you may want to try this to boost your fat burn: eat a meal made with slow-release carbohydrates (think: oatmeal, bran cereal, a whole-wheat bagel or toast) three hours before you work out. Related: Find Out What Some of the World's Top Athletes Eat to Win. Regardless of what type of exercise suits your fancy, here are some tips on what to eat before, during and after a workout, as previously reported on in EatingWell Magazine.