The IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) describes itself as the world's largest technical professional society -- promoting the development and application of electrotechnology and allied sciences for the benefit of humanity, the advancement of the profession, and the well-being of our members.. The IEEE fosters the development of standards that often become national and international standards. The organization publishes a number of journals, has many local chapters, and several large societies in special areas, such as the IEEE Computer Society.
IEEE is the acronym for Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. It provides worldwide standards for the electronics industry. IEEE 802.6 is a standard governed by the ANSI for Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN). It is an improvement of an older standard (also created by ANSI) which used the Fiber distr … ibuted data interface (FDDI) network structure.
1 The IEEE requires that a proposed draft of the standard receive a response rate of 75% (i.e., at least 75% of potential ballots are returned) and that, of the responding ballots, at least 75% approve the proposed draft of the standard. One of the more notable are the IEEE 802 LAN / MAN group of standards, with the widely used computer networking standards for both wired (ethernet, aka IEEE 802.3) and wireless (IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.16) networks. The IEEE standards development process can be broken down into seven basic steps:
IEEE stands for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. The association is chartered under this full legal name. IEEE's membership has long been composed of engineers and scientists. Allied professionals who are members include computer scientists, software developers, information technology professionals, physicists, and medical doctors, in addition to IEEE's electrical and electronics engineering core. IEEE produces over 30% of the world's literature in the electrical and electronics engineering and computer science fields, publishing well over 100 peer-reviewed journals.
Abbreviation of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, pronounced I-triple-E. Founded in 1884 as the AIEE, the IEEE was formed in 1963 when AIEE merged with IRE. IEEE is an organization composed of engineers, scientists, and students. The IEEE is best known for developing standards for the computer and electronics industry. In particular, the IEEE 802 standards for local-area networks are widely followed
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is a professional association with its corporate office in New York City and its operations center in Piscataway, New Jersey. It was formed in 1963 from the amalgamation of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Institute of Radio Engineers. IEEE produces over 30% of the world's literature in the electrical and electronics engineering and computer science fields, publishing well over 100 peer-reviewed journals.
IEEE stands for Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (technology advancement organization). Suggest new definition. This definition appears very rarely and is found in the following Acronym Finder categories: 1  Information technology (IT) and computers. 2  Science, medicine, engineering, etc. 1 MLA style: IEEE.. 2  Acronym Finder. 2015. 3  AcronymFinder.com 6 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Institute-of-Electrical-and-Electronics-Engineers-(technology-advancement-organization)-(IEEE).html. 4  Chicago style: Acronym Finder. 5  S.v.
IEEE stands for Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.  It is an organization of scientist, engineers and students that was  founded in 1884 as AICC and then ren … amed to IEEE in 1963 after it  merged with IRE. IEEE 802.6 is a standard governed by the ANSI for Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN). It is an improvement of an older standard (also created by ANSI) which used the Fiber distr … ibuted data interface (FDDI) network structure.
Standards and the IEEE Standards Development Process [edit]. Each year, the IEEE-SA conducts over 200 standards ballots, a process by which proposed standards are voted upon for technical reliability and soundness. In 2005, IEEE had close to 900 active standards, with 500 standards under development. One of the more notable are the IEEE 802 LAN / MAN group of standards, with the widely used computer networking standards for both wired (ethernet, aka IEEE 802.3) and wireless (IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.16) networks. The IEEE standards development process can be broken down into seven basic steps: