Palm-leaf manuscripts (Talapatra grandham) are manuscripts made out of dried palm leaves. Palm leaves were used as writing materials in South Asia and in Southeast Asia dating back to the 5th century BCE, and possibly much earlier. They were used to record actual and mythical narratives. Palm leaf manuscripts of Odisha include scriptures, pictures of Devadasi and various mudras of the Kama Sutra. Some of the early discoveries of Odia palm leaf manuscripts include writings like Smaradipika, Ratimanjari, Pancasayaka and Anangaranga in both Odia and Sanskrit.
Some people call all palms with this type of leaf-fan or windmill palms. Fan would be a better description. There is an actual windmill palm or at least that's the common name. The leaves on a palm tree play a very important role for the tree. Brand new leaf of a travelers palm that has just unrolled itself. You can still see the bit of a roll at the bottom. You can also see that the leaf stock has to grow some more to eventually become as tall as the other leaves. Also notice the color difference between the new leaf and the older ones
2. Not all palm trees are trees, and not all plants called palms are truly palms. These evergreen plants can grow in the form of shrubs, trees or long, woody vines called lianas. Plants like the yucca palm, Torbay palm (pictured right), sago palm and traveler's palm are not part of the Arecaceae family
The California Fan Palm fruit is called palm fruit. (Not trying to be funny, but I was a tour guide and that's what it is called!) It is edible and tasty (like dates but wit … h a proportionaly-large seed and not much meat on it.). A palm leaf uses a very repetitive design, so one can be quickly made by folding paper and cutting. A common way is to fold the paper accordion-style, folding it in half, and … then cutting a shape like a palm leaflet from the free edge. Answered. In Symbolism and Symbolic Meanings.
A palm tree is basically a trunk with leaves emerging from that trunk. There can be one or multiple trunks. The leaves or fronds can come off the trunk all the way from the top to the bottom, or just be at the top of the trunk. The leaves are attached to the trunk by a linear stem called the  petiole . Where the petiole attaches to the trunk is called the leaf sheath.. Away from the trunk, the petiole supports leaflets or segments of the leaf.
The Arecaceae are a botanical family of perennial lianas, shrubs, and trees commonly known as palm trees. (Owing to historical usage, the family is alternatively called Palmae or Palmaceae.) They are flowering plants, the only family in the monocot order Arecales. 
In Indonesia the palm-leaf manuscript is called lontar. The Indonesian word is the modern form of Old Javanese rontal. It is composed of two Old Javanese words, namely ron leaf and tal  Borassus flabellifer, palmyra palm. Palm leaf manuscripts of Odisha include scriptures, pictures of Devadasi and various mudras of the Kama Sutra. Some of the early discoveries of Odia palm leaf manuscripts include writings like Smaradipika, Ratimanjari, Pancasayaka and Anangaranga in both Odia and Sanskrit.
What are the leaves on a palm tree called? what are the leaves on a palm trees called???????i need to no for something i am doing!!!!!!!! Please Help Me! This Site Might Help You. RE: what are the leaves on a palm tree called? what are the leaves on a palm trees called???????i need to no for something i am doing!!!!!!!!