If not the eggs will not be fertile, will soon turn opaque white, and will not hatch. But if the eggs were fertilized, they should hatch in two or three days depending on the temperature of the water in tank. Note: You should not try to remove the eggs from your tank. Source(s): http://www.aquariumfish.net/catalog_page... mycellin · 10 years ago.
Hatching and Raising Fry The goldfish eggs take up to a week to hatch, depending on temperature. At 50 to 60 degrees F, they may take up to one or even two weeks to hatch but at 75 degrees F, they may hatch in 4 to 5 days. 
Your goldfish eggs should be kept in water that is not deeper than 6 inches. In deeper water the pressure can damage the fry and make it hard for them to reach the surface. After rinsing the eggs place them in a 20 gallon tank. You should raise the temperature to about 700F. The fish will hatch in 3-4 days. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Goldfish eggs should hatch in two or three days depending on the temperature of the water in your tank. First it is important to realize that the eggs must be fertilized by a male Goldfish, after the eggs have been laid by a female Goldfish. But if the eggs were fertilized, they should hatch in two or three days depending on the temperature of the water in tank. Note: You should not try to remove the eggs from your tank. Source(s): http://www.aquariumfish.net/catalog_page... mycellin · 10 years ago.
Confidence votes 95. The Goldfish eggs should hatch in two or three days depending on the temperature of the water in your tank. First it is important to realize that the eggs must be fertilized by a male Goldfish, after the eggs have been laid by a female Goldfish. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.
The goldfish eggs will hatch at about 70° F, about five days after being laid. Once hatched the embryo will need 3 - 4 days to absorb the yolk sac that it incubated in. Once the fry have digested the yolk they will require food fed to them 20 minutes at a time. 
If not the eggs will not be fertile, will soon turn opaque white, and will not hatch. But if the eggs were fertilized, they should hatch in two or three days depending on the temperature of the water in tank. Note: You should not try to remove the eggs from your tank. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.