11.1 Blood-brain Barrier Maintains the Constancy of the Brain's Internal Environment. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) protects the neural tissue from variations in blood composition and toxins. Elsewhere in the body the extracellular concentrations of hormones, amino acids and potassium undergo frequent fluctuations, especially after meals, exercise or stressful times. All areas of the brain do not have a blood-brain barrier. The structures located at strategic positions in the midline of the ventricular system and lack the BBB are collectively referred to as circumventricular organs (CVOs).
The blood–brain barrier (BBB) is a highly selective permeability barrier that separates the circulating blood from the brain extracellular fluid (BECF) in the central nervous system (CNS). Astrocytes are necessary to create the blood–brain barrier. A small number of regions in the brain, including the circumventricular organs (CVOs), do not have a
blood-brain barrier (BBB). Etymology: AS, blod + bragen + ME, barrere. an anatomic-physiologic feature of the brain thought to consist of walls of capillaries in the central nervous system and surrounding astrocytic glial membranes. The barrier separates the parenchyma of the central nervous system from blood. The blood-brain barrier prevents or slows the passage of some drugs and other chemical compounds, radioactive ions, and disease-causing organisms such as viruses from the blood into the central nervous system.
Noun. 1. blood-brain barrier-a mechanism that creates a barrier between brain tissues and circulating blood; serves to protect the central nervous system; the brain was protected from the large molecules of the virus by the blood-brain barrier. barrier-anything serving to maintain separation by obstructing vision or access. blood-brain barrier. n. A physiological mechanism that alters the permeability of brain capillaries, so that some substances, such as certain drugs, are prevented from entering brain tissue, while other substances are allowed to enter freely.
Blood-Brain Barrier Disruption Therapy. A protective barrier lines your brain's blood vessels to keep substances from going easily from your bloodstream into brain tissue. This is called the blood-brain barrier. Because this barrier exists, medical therapy (chemotherapy) drugs must be given a certain way to treat brain tumors effectively. Blood-brain barrier disruption therapy (BBBD) is an intensive, effective way of sending medication to brain tumors. The BBBD treatment allows medication to pass through the protective barrier. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: blood-brain barrier (Noun). A structure in the central nervous system (CNS) that keeps various substances found in the bloodstream out of the brain while allowing in the substances essential to metabolic function, e.g. oxygen. a mechanism that creates a barrier between brain tissues and circulating blood; serves to protect the central nervous system. the brain was protected from the large molecules of the virus by the blood-brain barrier.
Blood-brain barrier. A blockade of cells separating the circulating blood from elements of the central nervous system (CNS); it acts as a filter, preventing many substances from entering the central nervous system. The blood-brain barrier prevents or slows the passage of some drugs and other chemical compounds, radioactive ions, and disease-causing organisms such as viruses from the blood into
blood-brain barrier, n barrier formed by epithelial cells in the capillaries that supply the brain and central nervous system. This barrier selectively allows entry of substances such as glucose, some ions, and oxygen, while blocking entry of other substances. The blood-brain barrier prevents or slows the passage of some drugs and other chemical compounds, radioactive ions, and disease-causing organisms such as viruses from the blood into the
The blood–brain barrier allows the passage of water, some gases, and lipid-soluble molecules by passive diffusion, as well as the selective transport of molecules such as glucose and amino acids that are crucial to neural function. Astrocytes are necessary to create the blood–brain barrier. A small number of regions in the brain, including the circumventricular organs (CVOs), do not have a