NVivo is a qualitative data analysis (QDA) computer software package produced by QSR International. NVivo accommodates a wide range of research methods, including network and organizational analysis, action or evidence-based research, discourse analysis, grounded theory, conversation analysis, ethnography, literature reviews, phenomenology, mixed methods research and the Framework methodology.
NVivo is a software package that helps with the organization and analysis of unstructured data. It will help you: 1  classify, sort, and arrange information. 2  examine relationships in your data. 3  guide your data analysis. The observations you make through NVivo can help build a body of evidence to support a case or project. NVivo supports data formats such as audio files, videos, digital photos, Word, PDF, spreadsheets, rich text, plain text, web sites and social media data (Facebook, Twitter, Youtube).
NVivo is a software tool that complements the work of human researchers working on qualitative and mixed methods (and multi-methodology) research. As such, it enables the ingestion of various types of digital data, the coding of that data, and then various types of queries and analyses of that coding and data. Some say that NVivo is reflective of a grounded-theory emergent approach (which begins with data and observations and ends with hypothesizing and theorizing and research); others suggest the opposite, suggesting that this software tool benefits an a priori or pre-defined theoretical research approach.
NVivo is a comprehensive qualitative data analysis software package. The software can be used to organize and analyze interviews, field notes, textual sources, and other types of qualitative data including image, audio and video files. Using NVivo for Qualitative Data Analysis - 13 NVivo provides reports that enable you to check the progress of your project. You can obtain reports that summarize the attributes in a classification or the nodes that you have created.
That’s where NVivo comes in. NVivo is software that supports qualitative and mixed methods research. It’s designed to help you organize, analyze and find insights in unstructured, or qualitative data like: interviews, open-ended survey responses, articles, social media and web content. When it comes to investigating an issue, answering a question or simply making sense of something, we often look to information to help us get there, and it’s rare that numeric or linear data will give you the full picture on its own.
Using NVivo for Qualitative Data Analysis - 15 To carry out a matrix search, click the Queries button in the Navigation View. On the top menu, select Explore, click New Query and select Matrix Coding. You will see the Matrix Coding Query dialog box. Using NVivo for Qualitative Data Analysis - 13 NVivo provides reports that enable you to check the progress of your project. You can obtain reports that summarize the attributes in a classification or the nodes that you have created.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Trial NVivo free for 30 days: http://bit.ly/1hjWsi0 or visit the QSR International website: http://bit.ly/19gBhOD. NVivo is software that supports qualitative and mixed methods research.
NVivo is software that supports qualitative and mixed methods research. This workshop will start with an in-depth introduction to capabilities of the software including navigating the overall interface; running visualizations and queries, and incorporating categorical data. 
NVivo is used predominantly by academic, government, health and commercial researchers across a diverse range of fields, including social sciences such as anthropology, psychology, communication, sociology, as well as fields such as forensics, tourism, criminology and marketing. NVivo accommodates a wide range of research methods, including network and organizational analysis, action or evidence-based research, discourse analysis, grounded theory, conversation analysis, ethnography, literature reviews, phenomenology, mixed methods research and the Framework methodology.
Operating System: Windows, Mac OS. NVivo is software that supports qualitative and mixed methods research. It lets you collect, organise and analyse content from interviews, focus group discussions, surveys, audio-and now in NVivo 10 and NVivo for Mac-social media data, YouTube videos and web pages. 