Covalent bonds form when two atoms have a very small (nearly insignificant) difference in electronegativity. The value of difference in electronegativity between two atoms in a covalent bond is less than 1.7. Covalent bonds often form between similar atoms, nonmetal to nonmetal or metal to metal. Covalent bonding signals a complete sharing of electrons. 
When elements react, their atoms join with other atoms to form compounds [compound: A compound is a substance formed by the chemical union (involving bond formation) of two or more elements. ] . Chemical bonds form when this happens, which involves atoms transferring or sharing electrons. New substances are formed by chemical reactions. When elements react together to form compounds their atoms join to other atoms using chemical bonds. For example, iron and sulfur react together to form a compound called iron sulfide.
A chemical bond is an attraction between atoms that allows the formation of chemical substances that contain two or more atoms. The bond is caused by the electrostatic force of attraction between opposite charges, either between electrons and nuclei, or as the result of a dipole attraction. There are four basic types of bonds that can be formed between two or more (otherwise non-associated) molecules, ions or atoms. Intermolecular forces cause molecules to be attracted or repulsed by each other. Often, these define some of the physical characteristics (such as the melting point) of a substance.
4. Binary Compounds Between Two Nonmetals. Two nonmetals combine to form a covalent or molecular compound (i.e., one that is held together by covalent bonds, not ionic bonds). In many cases, two elements can ombine in several different ways to makec completely different compounds.
Chemical bonding between atoms results in compounds that can be very different from the parent atoms. This module, the second in a series on chemical reactions, describes how atoms gain, lose, or share electrons to form ionic or covalent bonds. The module lists features of ionic and covalent compounds. A polar bond is formed when electrons are unequally shared between two atoms. Polar covalent bonding occurs because one atom has a stronger affinity for electrons than the other (yet not enough to pull the electrons away completely and form an ion).
Referenced in 2 quiz questions. Nonmetals and metals generally form: ionic bonds in which they exchange electrons., ionic bonds in which they share electrons., covalent bonds in which they exchange electrons., or covalent bonds in which they share electrons. 
This is because non-metals form negative ions and never positive ions. It would also be impossible to describe the bond between the atoms in the diatomic elements like F 2, O 2 and N 2 using the ionic model. In these elements and compounds, covalent bonding operates. The documents called Type 1 Compounds and Type 2 Compounds give information on predicting composition and naming of ionic compounds. Electron sharing involves the sharing of electrons between two atoms and the creation of covalent bonds. Covalently bonded compounds typically have very different properties from ionic compounds, and they also involve combinations of different types of element
Using the Periodic Table above that means any compound that contains an element shown in orange will contain ionic (electrovalent) bonds. Compounds that form between two non-metals (or between non-metals and metalloids) will contain covalent bonds. Using the Periodic Table above that means any compound that contains element shown in yellow or green will contain covalent bonds. 
A covalent bond is a chemical bond that involves the sharing of electron pairs between atoms. These electron pairs are known as shared pairs or bonding pairs and the stable balance of attractive and repulsive forces between atoms when they share electrons is known as covalent bonding. In the molecule H 2, the hydrogen atoms share the two electrons via covalent bonding. Covalency is greatest between atoms of similar electronegativities. Thus, covalent bonding does not necessarily require that the two atoms be of the same elements, only that they be of comparable electronegativity.