You can appoint a professional executor such as a solicitor to act as your executor in your Will. At Browne & Murphy Solicitors we have over 10 years experience in the administration of estates and can act on your behalf and administer your estate in an independent, efficient and professional manner. While one Executor is sufficient it is wiser to appoint more than one. As the situation can arise that the executor you have appointed in your Will in not able to act. There is no limit on the number of executors that you can appoint in your Will, but problems can arise if too many executors are appointed.
Appointing a third party as executor. If you don't have a close relative or friend to name as executor, you might consider appointing a lawyer, the NSW Trustee and Guardian or a private trustee company. If you appoint a lawyer, it can be the lawyer who prepared the will, although this is not essential. The executor is responsible for seeing that the terms of the will are carried out, defending it against any challenge and applying for probate if necessary. Anyone over the age of 18 can be appointed executor. Usually a major beneficiary is nominated.
Posted by Lynne Butler. In Canada, you can appoint either an individual or a trust company as your executor. If the individual you choose is a lawyer, that's the same as appointing any other person. It means, however, that you can't appoint the law firm that the lawyer works for, just the lawyer himself or herself. This is because you appointed an individual executor who just happens to be a lawyer. The lawyer will be limited to charging what any other executor could charge (in Alberta, that's 1% to 5% of the estate).
Appointing an executor. Although a will should appoint an executor, it is still valid if it does not. The executor is responsible for seeing that the terms of the will are carried out, defending it against any challenge and applying for probate if necessary. Anyone over the age of 18 can be appointed executor. Usually a major beneficiary is nominated.
I don't have to act as the executor if I don't want to. I can shake my head and refuse to talk and the court will appoint someone. Or, I could hire someone (a lawyer perhaps) to do the work and pay for it out of the estate. I don't think you can be forced to do things by someone's will. An executor can decline to serve, and then someone else has to be appointed. My aunt died recently, and her will appointed one of her sisters-in-law as executor. But she was in poor health herself, lived about 250 miles away, and hadn't had much interaction with the relatives named in the will for several years.
If a person refuses to act as executor, another executor named in the will will take on all the duties. If the will does not name another executor, an application can be made to the court that will appoint an administrator. If you are named as executor you do not have to accept the responsibility. If a substitute executor is named in the will they can take on the duties. If no other executor is named, you can apply to the court to
Therefore a solicitor who is an executor, and who acts as solicitor for the estate (another fiduciary relationship), cannot (and nor can his or her firm) charge for work done in relation to the administration of an estate (but work in conducting legal proceedings on behalf of an estate can be charged for 1). 
I am afraid I have to disagree with OL (in fairess, he doesn't often make mistakes). However, as executor you cannot appoint someone else, but you can appoint an attorney to act on your behalf, or you can 'renounce' probate which means that beneficiaries or co-executors have the right to act. I suggest the Power of Attorney route is best. I hope this helps, please click accept. Sincerely.
You can appoint one or more executors, and you can appoint an alternative executor in case your primary executor is unable or unwilling to act after your death. Any beneficiary under your Will can act as an executor of your Will. Executors should be appointed with care. While one Executor is sufficient it is wiser to appoint more than one. As the situation can arise that the executor you have appointed in your Will in not able to act. There is no limit on the number of executors that you can appoint in your Will, but problems can arise if too many executors are appointed.