Background. Lithium Fluoride (LiF) has the lowest refractive index of all common infrared materials. It also possesses the highest UV transmission of any material, being able to transmit significantly into the VUV region at the hydrogen Lyman-alpha line (121nm). It is slightly soluble in water, while being soluble in HDF and other acids.
1 Lithium fluoride (highly enriched in the common isotope lithium-7) forms the basic constituent of the preferred fluoride salt mixture (LiF-BeF2) used in liquid-fluoride nuclear reactors. 1 Lithium deuteride was the fusion fuel of choice in early versions of the hydrogen bomb. 2 
Lithium fluoride is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula LiF. It is a colorless solid, that transitions to white with decreasing crystal size. Although odorless, lithium fluoride has a bitter-saline taste. Its structure is analogous to that of sodium chloride, but it is much less soluble in water. It is mainly used as a component of molten salts. Formation of LiF releases one of the highest energy per mass of reactants, only second to that of BeO. Lithium fluoride is exceptionally chemically stable and LiF/BeF 2 mixtures (FLiBe) have low melting points (360 C - 459 C) and the best neutronic properties of fluoride salt combinations appropriate for reactor use.
Lithium (as lithium fluoride) is used as an additive to aluminium smelters (Hall–Heroult héroult), process reducing melting temperature and increasing electrical, resistance a use which accounts for3 % of (production). 2011 Lithium reacts with water easily, but with noticeably less energy than other alkali metals do. The reaction forms hydrogen gas and lithium hydroxide in aqueous solution. Because of its reactivity with water, lithium is usually stored under cover of a hydrocarbon, often petroleum jelly.
Lithium fluoride, the lithium salt of hydrofluoric acid, may be used as an adjuvant in antibiotic therapy. Lithium fluoride is useful for the development of nanostructures and nanolayers. Articles. Determination of Water Content in Lithium fluoride Using Karl Fischer Titration. Adherent water in salts can be easily determined. It is best to choose a working medium which will prevent the salt from dissolving, e.g. a Methanol-Chloroform mixture with an excess of Chloroform.
Applications. Lithium fluoride is most widely used as a flux in the production of ceramics, such as enamels, glasses and glazes. Similarly it is also used in brazing and welding fluxes and molten salt chemistry in metallurgy. It also possesses the highest UV transmission of any material, being able to transmit significantly into the VUV region at the hydrogen Lyman-alpha line (121nm). It is slightly soluble in water, while being soluble in HDF and other acids.
Answers. Best Answer: Often used in thermoluminecint dosimeters (TLDs) which are used to measure a persons exposure to radiation. Calcium fluoride is used to measure the bettas and gammas whereas the lithium fluride is used to measure neutrons. 