Answer: It’s not necessary, but depending on where you live, it may be a good idea. An opened bottle of olive oil will usually keep well for up to two years when stored in a dark cupboard at normal room temperature. But in very hot, humid environments (80° F or above) olive oil has a tendency to go rancid more quickly. 
Published on: March 21, 2013. Solidification of olive oil in the fridge doesn't indicate quality, says Paul Vossen, UC Cooperative Extension advisor. Extra virgin olive oil is tasty and excellent for your health, but experts say as much as 70 percent of it sold in America is adulterated, or of a lower grade. 
5. Store some types of olive oil in the refrigerator. 1  Virgin olive oils and lower quality olive oils can be stored in the refrigerator. 2  The oil may turn cloudy and thicken, but will clear up and thin out when brought to room temperature. 3  Keep small amounts at room temperature for regular use. 1 Dark glass keeps the light out, allowing the oil to last longer. 2  Do not store your olive oil in plastic, because the PVC (polyvinyl chloride) from the plastic can be absorbed by the oil. 3  Avoid reactive metals such as copper or iron, because of potential chemical reactions that can make the oil unsafe.
Refrigeration does not affect the quality or flavor of other olive oils. Olive oil will keep well if stored in a sealed container in a cool, dark cupboard for about one year. If unopened, the oil may keep for as long as two years. Unlike wine, oil does not improve with age. Returning it to room temperature restores its fluidity and color. Another option is to store olive oil in a wide-mouth glass jar in the refrigerator. Even though it solidifies, you can easily spoon out any amount you need. A clear jar is fine because it's dark inside the refrigerator most of the time. If you don't want to refrigerate your olive oil, keep it in a dark, cool cupboard away from the stove or other heat-producing appliances. Olive oil connoisseurs recommend storing premium extra-virgin olive oils at room temperatur
Best Answer: No! you can but oil can solidify in the fridge, especially olive oil... it becomes hard like fat at room temperature. Oil never goes off* unless a containment enters the oil like the bacteria from chicken. I am a chef so you can tell your husband to stop wasting fridge space! Hope this helps. 
In the test, Dr. Oz puts a bottle of EVOO in the refrigerator. If it freezes at a normal refrigerator temperature, “then you’re pretty sure it’s pure,” said Oz. Some experts, however, say that the so-called “Fridge Test” for olive oil authenticity is a long-standing myth. Dr. Oz was investigating supermarket food fraud, including fake EVOO, in an episode that aired on February 11. 
1 Virgin olive oils and lower quality olive oils can be stored in the refrigerator. 2  The oil may turn cloudy and thicken, but will clear up and thin out when brought to room temperature. 3  Keep small amounts at room temperature for regular use. 1 Dark glass keeps the light out, allowing the oil to last longer. 2  Do not store your olive oil in plastic, because the PVC (polyvinyl chloride) from the plastic can be absorbed by the oil. 3  Avoid reactive metals such as copper or iron, because of potential chemical reactions that can make the oil unsafe.
Photo by Keate. Before you buy: At the grocery store, reach for a bottle at the back of the shelf, where the oil is shielded from fluorescent light. To store at home: Keep your oil in a low, cool, dark cupboard, or in the refrigerator if you use it infrequently―never next to the stove. If you buy oil in clear glass, wrap the bottle in foil when you get home, and keep it covered. 