Surviving a landslide or debris flow (mudslide) is dependent on you being awake at the time of its occurrence, and aware of what is happening. Should you find yourself in the midst of a landslide, there are things that you can do to increase your chances of survival, as outlined in the following steps. The danger is not over after a landslide has passed through. It may not be the only landslide, and there will be a lot of damage left in the wake of the landslide that can present hazards. There are a number of things that you should do to minimize the danger.
Staying Safe. There is not much that can be done to prevent a mudslide, but people can pay attention to the land and play it safe. People living in hilly or mountainous areas, especially ones prone to wildfires, earthquakes or heavy rainfall have to be extra cautious. Know where hazardous slopes are in your area! Most mudslides are caused by excessive rain, which loosens the soil and starts to wash it downhill. But there are other causes too. Ground movement (earthquakes or volcanoes) can trigger a slide. It can also occur in areas where there is a lot of alternating of freezing and thawing in the ground.
Answers. Best Answer: The only way to prevent mudslides is by growth of plants and such. Usually the problem is that plants are burnt away in brushfires causing root systems to rot letting water that saturates the ground to expand the ground and at some point the weight becomes too much to bear and the ground gives. 
Short of erecting an enormous wall around your home, it's nearly impossible to stop a mudslide from damaging your home if your home is in the mudslide's path. But you can take precautions to ensure that your home has some coverage if a mudslide hits, and there are a number of ways you can keep your family safe. Protecting You and Your Family The best way to protect yourself and your family form a mudslide or landslide is to have an emergency evacuation plan in place.
Here are some of the signs of a possible mudslide that you should look out for: Protecting You and Your Family The best way to protect yourself and your family form a mudslide or landslide is to have an emergency evacuation plan in place.
If you suspect that a mudslide or landslide is imminent in your area, get in touch immediately with emergency officials and alert them to the potential danger. If you do evacuate your home and find yourself in a car, be extra alert and on the lookout for collapsed roads, mud flow and signs of debris. Protecting You and Your Family The best way to protect yourself and your family form a mudslide or landslide is to have an emergency evacuation plan in place.
A mudslide, also called a debris flow, is a type of fast-moving landslide that follows a channel, such as a river. A landslide, in turn, is simply when rock, earth, or other debris moves down a slope. (See photos of a mudslide and a video on landslides .). 
A mudslide occurs when an earthquake happens on a slope or hill. Water from the earth's surface comes to the surface and forms mud the mud slides down the slope an … d can lead to lots of damage. 8 people found this useful. You could also find ways to know when a mudslide is coming, new cracks in tile, brick, plaster, and trees begin to tilt, walls, and stairs pulling away from their structures.
Constructing a wall or berm to reinforce the bottom of the slope. Confinement or Diversion When it’s not possible to prevent or avoid a landslide, there are several ways of physical confining or diverting the landslide, most notably: Containment dams or confinement basins to retain debris and water. Artificial canals to divert the debris. 
A landslide or mudslide is different usually caused by rains and collapsing hillsides. Specific mudslide, landslide or earth movement policies do exist, but they can be hard to come by, especially if you live on a hillside or in an area prone to mudslides. Protecting You and Your Family The best way to protect yourself and your family form a mudslide or landslide is to have an emergency evacuation plan in place.