Currently the average water consumption per person per day in Hong Kong is 0.13 cubic meter (i.e. 130 liters). You may make reference to the following examples for calculating the per capita daily water consumption of your family. Example 1 - No change in the number of family members during the billing period. 
In L.A. County, Beverly Hills residents used 286 gallons per person daily, while Compton residents used 65. In posh parts of northern San Diego County, residents on average used more than 580 gallons of water a day in September. The heaviest water users, the data showed, used more than 10 times as much as those who used the least. Statewide, residents in some water districts used an average of more than 500 gallons per capita a day, while others used as little as 46 gallons. The Santa Fe Irrigation District, which serves residents in an affluent part of northern and coastal San Diego County, recorded the highest average, 584 gallons
Toilets. Toilets make up the largest percentage of water consumed per person per day. At an average of 18.5 gallons, water used by toilets makes up approximately 26.7 percent of daily water use, according to the association. Save. Water used in the home comes from surface sources such as lakes and rivers and from groundwater sources such as wells. As of 2010, the average water usage per person averages 70 gallons per day, according to the American Water Works Association.
As a result, its per capita water use is highest in the state by far -- 94,111 gallons per person per day. Statewide, however, industries account for only about 8 percent of urban water use, compared with 68 percent for residential use and 24 percent for commercial and government use. The largest per-capita water user in the Bay Area is Hillsborough, a tony Peninsula town where residents average 334 gallons a day. Only 14 miles away, working-class East Palo Alto residents use less than a quarter as much -- 79
50 litres of water per day are necessary in order to avoid diseases and to retain efficiency. However, many humans in Africa must get along with 20 litres water per day. That is the quantity of water that we use when having a shower for 1,5 minutes. In Germany, the water consumption per person amounts to 121 litres water per day. About 1/3 is for toilet-flushing, 1/3 for body hygiene and another third for laundering, washing the dishes, cooking and drinking. 
Water is an important part of our daily lives and we use it for a wide variety of purposes, but do we really understand how much we use? The average American family uses more than 300 gallons of water per day at home. Roughly 70 percent of this use occurs indoors. Nationally, outdoor water use accounts for 30 percent of household use yet can be much higher in drier parts of the country and in more water-intensive landscapes. 
The size of the circles shows daily residential water use, in gallons per capita. The colors show how far above or below the state average of 77142 gallons those areas used in February 2015in July 2014. Many factors influence residential water use, like climate, income, lot size and types of homes. Daily Gallons Per Capita. The size of the circles shows daily residential water use, in gallons per capita. The colors show how far above or below the state average of 77 gallons those areas used in February 2015.
The average American family of four uses 400 gallons of water per day. On average, approximately 70 percent of that water is used indoors, with the bathroom being the largest consumer (a toilet alone can use 27 percent!). 