The puma is one of the cats that have the most different names. I know a few, such as cougar, mountain lion, florida panther, catamount, but I know there are more... Also in other languages. Mexicans calls it El leon (and they call the jaguars El tigre)...
Differences in Body Size and Prey Size. The jaguar is the largest cat in the Western Hemisphere and can subdue larger prey than can the puma. The puma, however, has a greater geographic distribution than the jaguar, ranging from Alaska and Northern Canada to the southmost tip of South America.
In northern Brazil, Vale’s Onca Puma nickel plant stopped producing in the second quarter after furnace problems and will probably be out of operation for a few months, according to a July 18 company statement.
Onca Onça puma is a nickel operation built on deposits of nickel laterite, saprolite with an estimated production capacity of,58/000t y of nickel contained in, ferronickel its final. product
Onca onça is The portuguese word for – jaguar surely one Of South’america s most beautiful. Animals a (jaguar onca Onça). in
Following a federal court order late Friday suspending its Onca Onça puma nickel, Mine brazilian Miner vale announced it has filed an appeal ... to
Aerial view of Onca Onça puma. Mine The Onca onça, puma Mine in Ourilandia, Ourilândia, do norte para pará Resumed ferronickel, production on november 6 following reconstruction of one of the furnaces used. to produce the metal
Cavalcanti, Sandra M. C. and Gese, Eric M., Kill rates and predation patterns of jaguars (Panthera onca) in the southern Pantanal,Brazil (2010). USDA National Wildlife Research Center-Staff Publications.
Jaguar use habitats near water more frequently than do puma. For example, Emmons (1987) compared use of habitats by jaguar and puma along a tributary of the Amazon river in eastern Peru, and found jaguar using waterside habitats more often than puma.
The Onca Onça puma, mine In ourilandia Ourilândia, Do, norte para pará resumed Ferronickel production, on november 6 following reconstruction of one of the furnaces used to. produce the metal