My cleaner charges $5.50 to dry-clean a man’s shirt (this is Manhattan, guys) and $2 for a laundered shirt on a hanger. Dry cleaning costs 175 percent more, and according to my esteemed cleaner, It’s not suitable for the type of soiling that occurs with a man’s shirt. It’s not as good at removing perspiration and the oils that occur around the neck. Proper laundering will give you cleaner and longer-lasting shirts. In any case, cleaning pants every two or three wears seems a little over-the-top, but if, for example, you work in a smoke-filled restaurant (try to find one of those), I could see it. Dry cleaning does not extend the life of any garment.
However, if you have apparel that is in dire need of cleaning without the use of water, dry cleaning could be the best option for you. Men’s suit shirts, tuxedos, dresses and blouses are just a few types of apparel that you may opt to bring to your local dry cleaners. Dry cleaning costs can vary from one location to the next and may also depend on exactly what you’re having cleaned that day. Recently, you may even see dry cleaners offering outstanding deals due to drastic decreases in the number of people who opt to have their clothes dry cleaned on a regular basis.
So most dry cleaner charge like 99 cents to $1.50 to launder & press a shirt...but to dry clean the same shirt they charge closer to $5. I understand spending the $5 to dry clean my more expensive button shirts would be the safest option to prevent fading/shrinking. But let's face it spending $5 everytime I want to clean a single shirt get's pretty damn expensive. The best way is to hand wash your shirts (cotton) with a soft detergent (without phosphates for environmental purposes), line dry until damp, then press with a light hand and a lot of steam. Starch is for amateurs (and a quick way to ruin in the cotton fiber). Don't dryclean, it's a quick way to ruin the cotton.
Average Dry Cleaning Prices. On average, dry cleaning can cost anywhere from $1 to $5 per shirt and up. In most cases, this will depend on where the dry cleaners is located, if they are busy with other orders to fulfill and if they iron your apparel in addition to cleaning them. Dry cleaning costs can vary from one location to the next and may also depend on exactly what you’re having cleaned that day. Recently, you may even see dry cleaners offering outstanding deals due to drastic decreases in the number of people who opt to have their clothes dry cleaned on a regular basis.
The Facts About “Dry Cleaning” Your Shirts. Let’s start with the biggest misconception. When you see a dry cleaner advertising “Shirts $1.95!” or similar, that is for laundering. This will bring the per shirt cost to about $5 – $6 instead of $2, but this does depend where you live. 2) Specify that you want your shirts Dry Cleaned, meaning cleaned in solvents instead of water. This typically costs $5-6 dollars per shirt, including being pressed by hand. 3) Save a shitload of cash, and hand wash and press your shirts yourself
1 3-piece suit — $15. 2  Regular pants and slacks — $7. 3  Shirts — $7. 4  At Ask.com someone shared that dry cleaning cost may range from $0.99 for a shirt to $10 to $25 for a suit. With dry cleaning, the process begins with the pre-treatment of stains and dirt using a specific cleaning agent. Then, the garments are loaded into a machine to remove embedded dirt.
Men's Dress Shirts. At an average cost of $1.50, the Dry Cleaner is ideal for men's button down dress shirts. In fact, the shirts are not dry cleaned, but are instead washed, then pressed and starched. Speaking of pressing, you may think that you will have to iron all of your clothes if you dry clean them at home, but that isn t so.
1 Through most dry cleaning services, dry cleaning prices are going to vary because the cost really depends on what needs to be dry cleaned. 2  For instance, a bed comforter is going to cost a lot more than a shirt. With dry cleaning, the process begins with the pre-treatment of stains and dirt using a specific cleaning agent. Then, the garments are loaded into a machine to remove embedded dirt.
Women and men paid more or less the same for dry cleaning, Ms. Floyd discovered, but for laundering, men paid an average of $2.86 and women $4.95. Of the 50 places surveyed, 8 did not launder women’s shirts at all, and 9 charged the same regardless of the owner’s gender. “I was so amazed by this,” Ms. Floyd said. Going back to work would mean more trips to the cleaners, and she hated the idea of paying more than a man. So she began calling cleaners all over Manhattan — 50 over 18 days. She made lists and charts of what they charged for laundering and dry cleaning men’s and women’s shirts and pants.