A primate (/ˈpraɪmeɪt/ PRY-mayt) is a mammal of the order Primates (/praɪˈmeɪtiːz/ pry-MAY-teez; Latin : prime, first rank). In taxonomy, primates include two distinct lineages, strepsirrhines and haplorhines. Some primates (including some great apes and baboons) are primarily terrestrial rather than arboreal, but all species possess adaptations for climbing trees. Locomotion techniques used include leaping from tree to tree, walking on two or four limbs, knuckle-walking, and swinging between branches of trees (brachiation).
Social structure-primates are social-especially humans. The social nature of primates is one of their primary adaptations to the environment, providing many benefits and many challenges. 1  Polyamy -- one-male, multi-female (common, occurs in gorillas, guenons, pottos, some spider monkeys, patas). Since we are primates-primate behavior includes humans. Yet, clearly there are differences in behavior among different species of primates-especially humans. Similar behaviors may also have different causes. What may be instinctual in one species may be learned in another.
Primates are characterized by large brains relative to other mammals, as well as an increased reliance on stereoscopic vision at the expense of smell, the dominant sensory system in most mammals. These features are more developed in monkeys and apes and noticeably less so in lorises and lemurs. Some primates (including some great apes and baboons) are primarily terrestrial rather than arboreal, but all species possess adaptations for climbing trees. Locomotion techniques used include leaping from tree to tree, walking on two or four limbs, knuckle-walking, and swinging between branches of trees (brachiation).
n. 1. (prī′māt′) Any of various mammals of the order Primates, which consists of the lemurs, lorises, tarsiers, New World monkeys, Old World monkeys, and apes including humans, and is characterized by nails on the hands and feet, a short snout, and a large brain. 2. A bishop of highest rank in a province or country
Consequently, the term prosimian is no longer widely used in a taxonomic sense, but is still used to illustrate the behavioral ecology of tarsiers relative to the other primates. Prosimians are the only primates native to Madagascar, but are also found throughout Africa and in Asia. Being an evolutionary grade rather than a clade, the prosimians are united by being primates with traits otherwise found in non-primate mammals.
member of the mammalian order Primates, which includes humans, apes ape,any primate of the subfamily Hominoidea, with the possible exception of humans. The small apes, the gibbon and the siamang, and the orangutan, one of the great apes, are found in SE Asia...... The term monkey includes all primates that do not belong to the categories human, ape, or prosimian; however, monkeys do have certain common features...... Click the link for more information. , and prosimians, or lower primates.
Definition of PRIMATE for Kids. : any of a group of mammals that includes humans together with the apes and monkeys and a few related forms. 
referring to anatomical differences between males and females of the same species. Primate males are usually significantly larger and more muscular than females. This is especially true of semi-terrestrial monkeys and the great apes. Humans are also sexually dimorphic. 
, monkeys monkey,any of a large and varied group of mammals of the primate order. The term monkey includes all primates that do not belong to the categories human, ape, or prosimian; however, monkeys do have certain common features...... Click the link for more information. , and prosimians, or lower primates.