Consuming diet soda at least once a day was associated with an increased fasting blood sugar level and a higher waist circumference compared to not consuming any soda, according to a study published in Diabetes Care in April 2009.
Even diet soda isn't necessarily a good choice if you are diabetic. If you're watching your blood sugar levels, you're probably aware that drinking regular soda can quickly cause your blood sugar levels to spike due to the large amounts of easily absorbed sugars it contains.
Artificial sweeteners contain no carbs and provide no calories to the diet. If you regularly drink regular soda, switching to diet can help you lose weight. This in turn will help your blood sugar levels, as obesity worsens diabetes and its symptoms.
The short answer is that drinking diet soda does not cause a rise in blood sugar level. Some studies have linked artificial sweeteners, such as the aspartame (NutraSweet) used in many diet sodas, with weight gain. Weight gain increases insulin resistance, which leads to an increase in blood sugar level. However, this finding has not been confirmed in other studies.
When consumed along with carbohydrates in the form of glucose, however, the diet soda did increase the amount of a substance called GLP-1 in the blood that may delay stomach emptying and minimize the effect of the carbohydrates on after-meal blood sugar levels, although more research is needed to verify this effect.
— Karen, Ohio. The short answer is that drinking diet soda does not cause a rise in blood sugar level. Some studies have linked artificial sweeteners, such as the aspartame (NutraSweet) used in many diet sodas, with weight gain. Weight gain increases insulin resistance, which leads to an increase in blood sugar level. However, this finding has not been confirmed in other studies.
Because diet drinks are sweetened with artificial sweeteners instead of sugars, they contain few or no carbohydrates and thus don't raise your blood sugar levels, according to the American Diabetes Association.