You need to know what to do if he or she has stopped breathing. The best thing to do is to start CPR, including rescue breathing, until help arrives. Seconds can count. If you're unsure how to perform rescue breathing, this article will focus on what to do for adults, children, and infants. Though you definitely want to call for help as quickly as possible, with a child or infant, it's important to give a 2 minute round of CPR before dialing 911, as damage can set in more quickly. 3. Increase the rescue breaths to five.
When talking to people about first aid and CPR in particular, I find a lot of confusion centred around the ratio of compressions to rescue breaths. That is, how many times should you press down on the chest and how many times should you give mouth to mouth breaths. This is really not too surprising, as it has been subject to change over the years. I started to learn first aid in the winter of 1971/72, at the tender age of 8. If, however, you have help, then you should give 5 compressions to 1 breath. In my 1979 book, I am told that the correct ratio is 5 to 1, with or without help, but by the second half of the eighties we are back to 15 to 2 on our own or 5 to 1 with help.
Pinch the nose but deliver breaths as if blowing out a candle and use just one hand to perform CPR. Do not pinch the nose but cover the mouth and nose with your mouth and deliver breaths as if blowing out a candle and use just one hand to perform CPR.
1 Start CPR with 30 chest compressions before checking the airway and giving rescue breaths. 2  Trained but rusty. 3  If you've previously received CPR training but you're not confident in your abilities, then just do chest compressions at a rate of about 100 a minute. 1 Push hard at a rate of about 100 compressions a minute. 2  If you haven't been trained in CPR, continue chest compressions until there are signs of movement or until emergency medical personnel take over. 3  If you have been trained in CPR, go on to checking the airway and rescue breathing.
Chest compressions and rescue breaths keep blood and oxygen circulating in the body. If someone is not breathing normally and is not moving or responding to you after an accident, call 999 or 112 for an ambulance. Then, if you can, start CPR straight away. 1 Place the heel of your hand on the centre of the person's chest, then place the other hand on top and press down by 5–6cm at a steady rate, at approximately 100 compressions per minute. 2  After every 30 chest compressions, give two breaths.
Spacing compressions too close together will lead to them being ineffective. You are aiming for a rate of 100 compressions per minute, which includes the time to give rescue breaths. In practice, you should get just over 2 cycles of 30 compressions in along with breaths per minute. 
1 If you're well-trained and confident in your ability, begin with chest compressions instead of first checking the airway and doing rescue breathing. 2  Start CPR with 30 chest compressions before checking the airway and giving rescue breaths. 1 Push hard at a rate of about 100 compressions a minute. 2  If you haven't been trained in CPR, continue chest compressions until there are signs of movement or until emergency medical personnel take over. 3  If you have been trained in CPR, go on to checking the airway and
Pinch the nose but deliver breaths as if blowing out a candle and use just two fingers to perform CPR. Do not pinch the nose but cover the mouth and nose with your mouth and deliver breaths as if blowing out a candle and use just one hand
1 You don't need to try rescue breathing. 2  Trained and ready to go. 3  If you're well-trained and confident in your ability, begin with chest compressions instead of first checking the airway and doing rescue breathing. 4  Start CPR with 30 chest compressions before checking the airway and giving rescue breaths. 1 Push hard at a rate of about 100 compressions a minute. 2  If you haven't been trained in CPR, continue chest compressions until there are signs of movement or until emergency medical personnel take over. 3  If you have been trained in CPR, go on to checking the airway and
If the victim is breathing, you know that they have a pulse. If the victim is not breathing, check the airway is clear then begin CPR at 2 breaths then 30 chest compressions at a depth of 4-5cm. 3. Locate an AED. If you get a no shock advised instruction from the AED it can mean: 1  the victim that you thought was pulse less does indeed have a pulse, or. 2  the victim has now regained a pulse, or. 3  the victim is pulseless but is not in a 'shockable' rhythm.