Trane is among the industry leaders in the air conditioner world for good reason. Trane air conditioner prices are competitive and its products have earned a reputation for reliability throughout the company's complete line. This reputation is backed by a 10-year minimum warranties on nearly every part of any Trane air conditioner. What you end up paying is a combination of the price of the unit and the installation cost. This guide is meant as an overview of estimated Trane air conditioner prices, including installation and the wholesale unit cost.
The cooling capacity of a Trane air conditioner reflects its ability to cool a home. The cooling capacity of central air conditioners is measured in tons. One ton equals 12,000 BTUs, or British Thermal Units. However, there is no simple way to calculate the ideal cooling capacity for a specific home. The initial price to purchase a Trane air conditioner is just one consideration that needs to be made. The cost to own and operate an air conditioner over the course of many years should be calculated as well.
A Trane air conditioner may be one of the more expensive options, but the quality, luxury, and reliability you get with this system can make the cost well worth it. 1 The least expensive Trane air conditioner can cost at least $2,000, while the most expensive Trane air conditioner prices can reach up to $8,000.
Trane is one of the industry leaders in manufacturing air conditioning systems. It offers several lines of systems appropriate for various applications. The cost of a Trane air conditioner can be anywhere from a just under $1,000 to several thousand dollars depending on the model. Several other factors go into determining the overall cost of purchasing and regularly operating a Trane air conditioning system. Trane has several models of air conditioners available to consumers. Some of the more popular models are the XL20i, the XL15i, the XR15 and the XB14. Each type of Trane air conditioner offers certain benefits and is ideal for certain
Installing a Trane central air conditioning system in a home ranging from 800 to 2,000 square feet can cost anywhere between $2,100 and $10,000, as of late 2009. Having to install ductwork will generally double the cost. Trane has several models of air conditioners available to consumers. Some of the more popular models are the XL20i, the XL15i, the XR15 and the XB14. Each type of Trane air conditioner offers certain benefits and is ideal for certain applications.
Summer is for relaxing, not battling the heat. A Trane central air conditioner allows you to rest comfortably day or night while eliminating the worry about your next utility bill. Each of our central air conditioning systems are designed to give you a cooler, happier life. The benefits of owning a Trane central air conditioning unit do not end after installation. Each AC unit is backed with a Trane warranty, guaranteeing a cooler, more comfortable home year round.
PURCHASE PRICE. Because a central heating and air conditioning system is not an off-the-shelf product, it requires a professional dealer to assess and install a system that’s right for your home. There is no MSRP. Replacing your home's is heating and air conditioning system is a major decision, but you need to think more than just about the initial purchase price. Factor in how much you can save on your current energy bill by replacing your older system with a higher efficiency system.
Trane air conditioner prices fluctuate depending on numerous factors: the company sells the systems wholesale at different rates to contractors throughout the world. What you end up paying is a combination of the price of the unit and the installation cost. This guide is meant as an overview of estimated Trane air conditioner prices, including installation and the wholesale unit cost. What you pay may end up varying from the prices listed below, depending on your needs and location