Early references to brass monkeys in the 19th century have no references to balls at all, but instead variously say that it is cold enough to freeze the tail, nose, ears, and whiskers off a brass monkey; or hot enough to scald the throat or singe the hair of a brass monkey. The brass monkey is the nickname of the house flag of the Cunard Line, adopted in 1878, a lion rampant or on a field gules holding a globe. The reference is almost certainly irreverent humour, rather than a source of the expression, of which variants predate it.
The name Brass Monkey can also refer to the following cocktails: 1  A mixture of gin, triple sec, tequila, orange juice, sour mix and grapefruit juice. 2  A mixture of rum, vodka and orange juice (with or without Galliano). As with many lesser-known cocktails that are named after colloquial expressions, there are widely differing recipes that share the same name. The premixed cocktail labeled Brass Monkey was produced by the Heublein Company in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s.
Report Abuse. This is one definition of Brass Monkey: The English expression is 'It's cold enough to freeze the balls off a brass monkey' Every sailing ship had to have cannon for protection. Cannon of the times required round iron cannonballs. A brass monkey was a stand used for cannon balls on ships centuries ago. In cold weather the cannon balls would shrink & fall off it ........... hence brass monkey weather & cold enough to freeze the balls off a brass monkey.
Thus it was, quite literally, cold enough to freeze the balls off a brass monkey. Brass Monkey is a British brand of men's underpants that have taken up the fight to keep men's testicles warm and comfy, See the link below and their version of the story! A brass monkey was a stand used for cannon balls on ships centuries ago. In cold weather the cannon balls would shrink & fall off it ........... hence brass monkey weather &
The Brass Monkey cocktail was available in bottles from half pint up to 750 mL. At the time that the Brass Monkey cocktail was produced, liquor stores carried mostly beer, wine, and hard alcohol; there were very few premixed alternatives. As with many lesser-known cocktails that are named after colloquial expressions, there are widely differing recipes that share the same name. The premixed cocktail labeled Brass Monkey was produced by the Heublein Company in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s.
The reference to the testes (as the term balls is commonly understood to mean) of the brass monkey appears to be a 20th-century variant on the expression, prefigured by a range of references to other body parts, especially the nose and tail. The brass monkey is the nickname of the house flag of the Cunard Line, adopted in 1878, a lion rampant or on a field gules holding a globe. The reference is almost certainly irreverent humour, rather than a source of the expression, of which variants predate it.
Brass Monkey is a name given to a number of different cocktail recipes. As with many lesser-known cocktails that are named after colloquial expressions, there are widely differing recipes that share the same name. The premixed cocktail labeled Brass Monkey was produced by the Heublein Company in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s.
For other uses of the term, see Brass monkey (disambiguation) . The Brass Monkey of Stanthorpe, Queensland-the place known for its brass monkey weather, complete with a set of balls. The phrase cold enough to freeze the balls off (or on) a brass monkey  is a colloquial expression used by some English speakers. The brass monkey is the nickname of the house flag of the Cunard Line, adopted in 1878, a lion rampant or on a field gules holding a globe. The reference is almost certainly irreverent humour, rather than a source of the expression, of which variants predate it.
‘Brass monkey,’ Beastie Boys. Who cares what the drink actually is, this song is still as much of a jam today as when it came out in 1986. Fans everywhere pay tribute by mixing up their own versions of orange juice and a 40 in tribute to the band. Everything you thought you knew about the brass monkey was wrong. Beastie Boys fans were shocked this week when Mike D told WNYC’s Studio 360 that what the band was rapping about in their 1986 hit “Brass Monkey” was not, after all, a 40-ounce bottle of malt liquor mixed with orange juice.