Blood in urine. Blood can be seen in the urine (pee) when a patient is bleeding in some part of their kidneys or bladder, or in the tubes that carry urine. The blood is being flushed out along with the urine. Bleeding can be caused by infection, injury, tumors, or stones that are in the kidneys, tubes, or bladder. It can also be due to a low platelet count. 
Blood in Urine Causes. 1  Infection: Blood in the urine can be a sign of urinary tract infection (UTI). 2  Nephrolithiasis: Kidney or bladder stones may form inside the urinary tract and can cause bleeding into the urine. 3  Kidney disease: Diseases of the kidney can be associated with blood in the urine. 4  Prostate gland enlargement: Enlargement of the 5  ... C 1 Nephrolithiasis: Kidney or bladder stones may form inside the urinary tract and can cause bleeding into the urine. 2  Kidney disease: Diseases of the kidney can be associated with blood in the urine. 3  Prostate gland enlargement: Enlargement of the prostate can compress the urethra and partially block the flow of urine.
Blood in the urine. In most cases, blood in the urine (called hematuria) is the first warning sign of bladder cancer. Sometimes, there is enough blood to change the color of the urine. Depending on the amount of blood, the urine may be orange, pink, or, less often, darker red.
Blood in Urine Causes. 1  Infection: Blood in the urine can be a sign of urinary tract infection (UTI). 2  An infection can be present in the lower urinary tract (bladder and urethra) or higher in the urinary tract (kidneys or ureters). 1 Nephrolithiasis: Kidney or bladder stones may form inside the urinary tract and can cause bleeding into the urine. 2  Kidney disease: Diseases of the kidney can be associated with blood in the urine. 3  Prostate gland enlargement: Enlargement of the prostate can compress the urethra and partially block the flow of urine.
Blood in the urine. Blood in pee is the most common symptom of bladder cancer. 4 out of 5 people with bladder cancer (80%) have some blood in their urine. You may actually see the blood. It usually looks bright red but, rarely, may be dark brown. Or it might be there in such small amounts that you can't see it.
Hematuria in Cats. Blood in the urine, a condition known as hematuria, may indicate a serious underlying disease process. Familial hematuria (a condition in which blood in the urine runs in certain families of animals) is usually implicated in young cats, while cancer is the usual cause in older cats. 
1 Kidney injury. 2  A blow or other injury to your kidneys from an accident or contact sports can cause blood in your urine that you can see. 3  Medications. 4  The anti-cancer drug cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) and penicillin can cause urinary bleeding. 1 So can Alport syndrome, which affects the filtering membranes in the glomeruli of the kidneys. 2  Kidney injury. 3  A blow or other injury to your kidneys from an accident or contact sports can cause blood in your urine that you can see. 4
In hematuria, your kidneys — or other parts of your urinary tract — allow blood cells to leak into urine. A number of problems can cause this leakage, including: Urinary tract infections. Urinary tract infections often occur when bacteria enter your body through the urethra and begin to multiply in your bladder. Symptoms can include a persistent urge to urinate, pain and burning with urination, and extremely strong-smelling urine. 1 So can Alport syndrome, which affects the filtering membranes in the glomeruli of the kidneys. 2  Kidney injury. 3  A blow or other injury to your kidneys from an accident or contact sports can cause blood in your urine that you can see. 4  Medications.
Blood in urine can come from the kidneys, where urine is made. It also can come from other structures in the urinary tract, such as: 1  Ureters (the tubes from the kidneys to the bladder). 2  Bladder (where urine is stored). 3  Urethra (the tube from the bladder to the outside of the body). Blood in urine-known medically as hematuria-is usually not a reason for major alarm. Because blood in urine can be a sign of a serious medical condition, however, it shouldn't be ignored.
1 Hematuria may be caused by many conditions, and not all causes of hematuria are serious. 2  Strenuous exercise and certain medications can cause hematuria. 3  Kidney stones, urinary tract infections, kidney disease, blood diseases, and some cancers are all known causes of blood in the urine. 1 Strenuous exercise and certain medications can cause hematuria. 2  Kidney stones, urinary tract infections, kidney disease, blood diseases, and some cancers are all known causes of blood in the urine. 3  Blood in the urine should always be evaluated by a doctor.