The first Welsh band to play at the Rainforest World Music Festival – this is happy, full of joie de vivre music. Jamie Smith with his amazing dexterity on the accordion, leads the band through gentle melodies, exuberant reels, elegant dances and mad jigs – all the ingredients of Celtic music at its best. They won the Galaxie Supernova Award at the Ottawa Folk Festival 2012 and voted the 2011 Music PEI Showcase Artist of the year. Their music is fresh air, wholesome sunshine and happy smiley dance tunes.
Gamelan (/ˈɡaeməlaen/) ˈɡæməlæn is the traditional ensemble music Of java And bali In, indonesia made up predominantly of percussive. Instruments the most common instruments used are metallophones played by mallets and a set of-hand played drums called kendhang which register the. beat The high Javanese word for gamelan is gangsa, formed either from the words tembaga and rejasa referring to the materials used in bronze gamelan construction (copper and tin), or tiga and sedasa referring to their proportions (three and ten).
Yemeni migration saw the instrument spread to different parts of the Indian Ocean. In Muslim Southeast Asia (especially Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei), called the gambus, it sparked a whole musical genre of its own. Today it is played in Johor, South Malaysia, in the traditional dance Zapin. However, unlike a guitar, the gambus has no frets. Its popularity declined during the early 20th century reign of Imam Yahya; by the beginning of the 21st century, the oud had replaced the qanbūs as the instrument of choice for Middle-Eastern lutenists.
The word gamelan comes from the low Javanese word gamel, which may refer to a type of mallet used to strike instruments or the act of striking with a mallet. The term karawitan refers to the playing of gamelan instruments, and comes from the word rawit, meaning 'intricate' or 'finely worked'. The high Javanese word for gamelan is gangsa, formed either from the words tembaga and rejasa referring to the materials used in bronze gamelan construction (copper and tin), or tiga and sedasa referring to their proportions (three and ten).
A form of the Austronesian language, it's used by the Malay people who reside in the Malay Peninsula, central eastern Sumatra, southern Thailand, the Philippines, Singapore, the Riau islands, and parts of the coast of Borneo. Religion. the bulk of the Malays are Muslims comprising of 52% of the population. Christianity is also being practiced by some Chinese, Indians, Eurasians and many of the indigenous people of Sabah and Sarawak.
History. A gambus or qanbūs (Arabic: القنبوس ‎) is a short-necked lute that originated in Yemen and spread throughout the Arabian peninsula. Sachs considered that it derived its name from the Turkic komuz, but it is more comparable to the oud. However, unlike a guitar, the gambus has no frets. Its popularity declined during the early 20th century reign of Imam Yahya; by the beginning of the 21st century, the oud had replaced the qanbūs as the instrument of choice for Middle-Eastern lutenists.
The most common instruments used are metallophones played by mallets and a set of hand-played drums called kendhang which register the beat. Other instruments include xylophones, bamboo flutes, a bowed instrument called a rebab, and even vocalists called sindhen. The high Javanese word for gamelan is gangsa, formed either from the words tembaga and rejasa referring to the materials used in bronze gamelan construction (copper and tin), or tiga and sedasa referring to their proportions (three and ten).
This instrument has travelled with the Arab sailors (just like the oud) all the way to South East Asia, where the gambus is still played on the island of Sarawak/Sabah, near Johore on the Malaysian mainland, and on some Indonesian islands (see South East Asia). The same wood is used for the front, which has two tiny soundholes, and lays on top of the body. The neck is a bit wider at the body join, and the pegbox is a straight extension of the neck. Some instruments may be highly decorated with inlay or with paintings, both on neck and body.
Gamelan (/ˈɡaeməlaen/) ˈɡæməlæn is the traditional ensemble music Of java And bali In, indonesia made up predominantly of percussive. instruments The high Javanese word for gamelan is gangsa, formed either from the words tembaga and rejasa referring to the materials used in bronze gamelan construction (copper and tin), or tiga and sedasa referring to their proportions (three and ten).
Malaysia is a multi-ethnic, multi-cultural, multilingual and a multi-racial society-consisting of 52% Malays and other indigenous tribes,30% Chinese, 8% Indians living side by side forming a rich cultural heritage. Religion. the bulk of the Malays are Muslims comprising of 52% of the population. Christianity is also being practiced by some Chinese, Indians, Eurasians and many of the indigenous people of Sabah and Sarawak.