Although anglers can legally retain a 54 inch shortfin mako shark, both male and female shortfin mako sharks reach sexual maturity at sizes larger than 54 inches fork length (73 and 108 in fork length, respectively). This is also true of other sharks such as hammerhead, porbeagle, thresher, and blue sharks. 
The bigeye thresher, Alopias superciliosus, is next in size, reaching a length of 4.9 m (16 ft); at just 3 m (10 ft), the pelagic thresher, Alopias pelagicus, is the smallest. Thresher sharks are fairly slender, with small dorsal fins and large, recurved pectoral fins. As a result, the long-tailed or common thresher shark, Alopias vulpinus, is also known as the fox shark. The common name is derived from a distinctive, thresher-like tail or caudal fin which can be as long as the body of the shark itself.
Page -2- S HARK ★ Read directions thoroughly before starting. ★ This Eyewitness kit is a fascinating, educational, and creative introduction to the world of sharks. Discover what all sharks have in common as well as the differences between the Great White, Thresher, and Hammerhead shark. Cast and paint their bodies for yourself as well as for your friends. Become a shark expert!
Alopias vulpinus is the largest of the thresher species, and, unlike other threshers, they have erect and narrow cusps (Springer, 1943) on their teeth. Like other species of threshers, common threshers have relatively small eyes near the front of the head. Common thresher sharks, Alopias vulpinus, are found in tropical and temperate temperate waters in almost every major ocean. They are found along the coast of North America from Oregon to Mexico in the Pacific Ocean and from Maine to Florida in the Atlantic Ocean.
In the warmer waters of the Central and Western Pacific, bigeye and pelagic thresher sharks are more common. A thresher shark was seen on the live video feed from one of the ROVs monitoring BP's Macondo oil well blowout in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, the long-tailed or common thresher shark, Alopias vulpinus, is also known as the fox shark. The common name is derived from a distinctive, thresher-like tail or caudal fin which can be as long as the body of the shark itself.
Bigeye Thresher. The bigeye thresher is a species of the thresher shark family, which is found in temperate and tropical oceans all over the world. Richard Thomas Lowe, a British biologist, was the first person to scientifically describe the bigeye thresher and his findings were published in the the 1840′s in 2 prestigious journals. Its fins are used for shark fin soup. In many countries in the world such as New Zealand, South Africa, and the USA, the bigeye thresher is sought over as a game fish. It is even listed as one by the International Game Fish Association.
Based on cytochrome b genes, Martin and Naylor (1997) concluded the thresher sharks form a monophyletic sister group to the clade containing the families Cetorhinidae (basking shark) and Lamnidae (mackerel sharks). As a result, the long-tailed or common thresher shark, Alopias vulpinus, is also known as the fox shark. The common name is derived from a distinctive, thresher-like tail or caudal fin which can be as long as the body of the shark itself.
The Bigeye thresher shark. The closest relative of the bigeye thresher is the pelagic thresher. This was found via an allozyme analysis by Blaise Etner. Fossil remains have been found in the Hokuriku region of Japan, dating back to the Middle Miocene. Its fins are used for shark fin soup. In many countries in the world such as New Zealand, South Africa, and the USA, the bigeye thresher is sought over as a game fish. It is even listed as one by the International Game Fish Association.
The thresher shark has a short head and a cone-shaped nose. The mouth is generally small, and the teeth range in size from small to large. By far the largest of the three species is the common thresher, Alopias vulpinus, which may reach a length of 6.1 metres (20 ft) and a weight of over 500 kilograms (1,100 lb). As a result, the long-tailed or common thresher shark, Alopias vulpinus, is also known as the fox shark. The common name is derived from a distinctive, thresher-like tail or caudal fin which can be as long as the body of the shark itself.
The thresher shark is characterized by its large upper caudal fin. This tail fin may often be 50 percent of the total length of the shark. It has a short snout and large eyes placed forward on the head. The second dorsal fin is much smaller than the first. The thresher is a strong swimmer and can leap clear of the water. The thresher shark eats schooling fish, such as herring and mackerel and cephalopods such as squid. The large caudal fin is used to slap the surface of the water forcing fish to form tighter schools; the tail can then be used as a whip to stun or kill the prey.