Background. Acinetobacter baumannii is a pleomorphic aerobic gram-negative bacillus (similar in appearance to Haemophilus influenzae on Gram stain) commonly isolated from the hospital environment and hospitalized patients. A baumannii is a water organism and preferentially colonizes aquatic environments. 
What is Acinetobacter baumannii?Acinetobacter is a type of bacteria that can be commonly found in many sources in the environment, including water and soil. A few of these, particularly a species called Acinetobacter baumannii often cause infections in hospitalized patients who are already very unwell. These 'hospital-adapted' strains of Acinetobacter baumannii are sometimes resistant to many antibiotics and the infections they cause can be difficult to treat.
An Acinetobacter baumannii infection is caused by the Acinetobacter baumannii bacteria. It can cause serious infections in the lungs, blood, and brain. It may also cause urinary tract and wound infections. It can be spread by direct contact and may be found on skin or in food, water, or soil. It may also be found in hospitals. Acinetobacter baumannii is highly contagious. You may not know that you have an Acinetobacter infection until you get sick with one of the following: 1  Pneumonia: Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs. 2  Acinetobacter baumannii can get into your lungs through your mouth or nose. 3  It may cause pneumonia if you have been in the ICU or if you are on a ventilator.
Acinetobacter causes a variety of diseases, ranging from pneumonia to serious blood or wound infections, and the symptoms vary depending on the disease. Acinetobacter may also “colonize” or live in a patient without causing infection or symptoms, especially in tracheostomy sites or open wounds. Top of page. Decisions on treatment of infections with Acinetobacter should be made on a case-by-case basis by a healthcare provider. Acinetobacter infection typically occurs in ill patients and can either cause or contribute to death in these patients.
A. baumannii is part of the ACB complex (A. baumannii, A. calcoaceticus, and Acinetobacter genomic species 13TU). Members of the ACB complex are difficult to determine the specific species, and comprise the most clinically relevant members of the genus. Motility in A. baumannii may also be due to the excretion of exopolysaccharide, creating a film of high-molecular-weight sugar chains behind the bacterium to move forward.
Abstract. Multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii is recognized to be among the most difficult antimicrobial-resistant gram-negative bacilli to control and treat. Increasing antimicrobial resistance among Acinetobacter isolates has been documented, although definitions of multidrug resistance vary in the literature. However, other studies have found poor correlation between patient mortality and the empirical choice of antimicrobial agents to which Acinetobacter infection was resistant [ 49, 55, 57 – 59 ]. Acinetobacter infection is associated with increased morbidity and a prolonged length of hospital stay.
Acinetobacter baumannii is a typically short, almost round, rod-shaped (coccobacillus) Gram-negative bacterium. It can be an opportunistic pathogen in humans, affecting people with compromised immune systems, and is becoming increasingly important as a hospital-derived (nosocomial) infection. Motility in A. baumannii may also be due to the excretion of exopolysaccharide, creating a film of high-molecular-weight sugar chains behind the bacterium to move forward.
Acinetobacter [asz−in−ee−ée–toe−back] ter is a group of bacteria commonly found in soil and. Water while there are many types “or” species Of acinetobacter and all can cause human, Disease acinetobacter [baumannii−asz−in−ee–ée−toe back-ter-boe-maa] nee ie accounts forabout 80 % of. reported infections Decisions on treatment of infections with Acinetobacter should be made on a case-by-case basis by a healthcare provider. Acinetobacter infection typically occurs in ill patients and can either cause or contribute to death in these patients.
They are important soil organisms, where they contribute to the mineralization of, for example, aromatic compounds. Acinetobacter species are a key source of infection in debilitated patients in the hospital, in particular the species Acinetobacter baumannii. 
Acinetobacter baumannii, previously named Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, is an opportunistic pathogen found in soil and water. One of the first Acientobacter found in soil was discovered in 1911 by M.W. Beijerinck. 