The idea of a kuna currency reappeared in 1939 when Banovina of Croatia, an autonomous province established within Kingdom of Yugoslavia, planned to issue its own money. In 1941, when the Ustaše regime formed the Independent State of Croatia, they introduced the Independent State of Croatia kuna. The main reference currency for kuna was the German mark, and later the euro. A long-time policy of the Croatian National Bank has been to keep the fluctuations of the kuna exchange rate with the euro in a relatively stable range.
HRK-Croatian Kuna. Croatia, Kuna. The Croatian Kuna is the currency of Croatia. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Croatia Kuna exchange rate is the HRK to EUR rate. The currency code for Kuna is HRK, and the currency symbol is kn. Below, you'll find Croatian Kuna rates and a currency converter. 
See how much your money is worth in Croatian Kuna. Use this handy currency exchange converter to check the current foreign exchange rate of the Kuna before you arrive in Zagreb. Of course you know that this is the interbank rate which is not the rate you will receive after all the costs and fees are factored in. 
The official currency of the Republic of Croatia is the Kuna, which has 100 Lipa. (local abbreviation kn, international abbreviation HRK). 1 Euro is approx 7,4 kunas and 1 USD approx 6 kunas. For more precise information on Kuna exchange rates follow this link to Croatian National Bank Exchange Course. 
Currency in Croatia. Many visitors to Croatia are confused as to which currency to bring. The official currency is Kuna, but when planning a trip many things are quoted in Euro. The short answer is that both are useful. Larger expenses such as hotel rooms, apartment rentals, tours, and long taxi trips are often quoted in Euro and can be paid in either Euro or Kuna.
We often get the question “Should I use Euro or Kuna in Croatia?”. Kuna is the official currency in Croatia and is most widely used. Larger items such as villa or apartment rentals, car rentals, tours, and transfers are often priced in Euro, but can usually be paid for in either Euro or Kuna. Local businesses such as restaurants and shops price in Kuna and most only accept Kuna. 
It is subdivided into 100 lipa. The kuna is issued by the Croatian National Bank and the coins are minted by the Croatian Monetary Institute. The word  kuna  means  marten  in Croatian since it is based on the use of marten pelts as units of value in medieval trading. The word lipa means  linden (lime) tree . The main reference currency for kuna was the German mark, and later the euro. A long-time policy of the Croatian National Bank has been to keep the fluctuations of the kuna exchange rate with the euro in a relatively stable range.
National currency in Croatia is Kuna (HRK). Kuna is croatian word for marten, a weasel-like animal. One Kuna is devided into 100 lipa; a croatian word for lime tree. Abbreviation: kuna-kn; lipa-lp. Kuna dominations: 1  Kuna notes: 10, 20, 50, 100, 200, 500 and 1000. 2  Kuna coins: 1, 2, 5 and 25. 3  Lipa coins: 5, 10, 20 and 50. 
Money in Croatia – The Croatian Kuna. The Croatian currency is the Kuna (not the Euro!), which is divided into 100 lipas. (The word ‘Kuna’ means marten, a weasel-like animal, whose fur Croats used as payment many centuries ago. The word ‘lipa’ means lime tree, but we don’t know the connection here!) When listed as a price, Kuna is abbreviated to Kn. In the opinion of many, the Kuna is overvalued but is nevertheless a stable currency. The current exchange rate between the Kuna and various world currencies can be found at the Croatian National Bank website.
The kuna is the currency of Croatia since 1994 and it is subdivided into 100 lipa. The kuna is issued by the Croatian National Bank and the coins are minted by the Croatian Monetary Institute. The Kuna is expected to be replaced by the euro within two or three years after joining the European Union. 