Best Answer: Embalming is not required by any state laws anywhere in the US. Embalming is optional, but may be required for certain services, such as a viewing. Embalming is meant to temporarily preserve the body so that family and friends may view the body.
If you select a funeral service which requires embalming, such as a funeral with a viewing, you may have to pay for embalming. You are not required to have embalming if you selected arrangements such as direct cremation or immediate burial. If a funeral home charges for embalming, they must explain why in writing.
Embalming is required when the body will be transported by air or train from one state to another or to a different country. Don’t choose embalming if you are planning a direct cremation. If you are planning an immediate burial or direct cremation with no services, let the funeral home know in advance.
Cremation. No law requires a casket for cremation. On the contrary, federal law requires a funeral home or crematory to inform you that you may use an alternative container, and to make such containers available to you. An alternative container may be made of unfinished wood, pressed wood, fiberboard, or cardboard.
Most funeral homes will require embalming for a public viewing. As a funeral is generally a few days after death, embalming preserves the body and keeps it in a state that is acceptable for viewing. Some experts will tell you that refrigeration will do the same thing.
In addition, you may choose services like direct cremation and immediate burial, which don’t require any form of preservation. Many funeral homes have a policy requiring embalming if the body is to be publicly viewed, but this is not required by law in most states. Ask if the funeral home offers private family viewing without embalming. If some form of preservation is a practical necessity, ask the funeral home if refrigeration is available.
No state requires routine embalming and some don't require it at all. It is not required for cremation if performed immediately. If a funeral salesperson tells you that it is the law, ask what special circumstances exist that require it. Insisting that embalming is required where it is not is against the law.
In some cases there is no choice as to whether the deceased will be embalmed. Each state has their own laws regarding embalming but most states agree that if a body is to be moved between states after death for the purposes of burial or funeral, it must be embalmed before it can be moved.