Humans share the same set of genes but not necessarily the same form of those genes. Different forms of genes called alleles allow us to have different traits such … as attached earlobes versus unattached earlobes. There may be some DNA in some dirt samples, but this DNA does not belong to the dirt, rather to something that has somehow deposited its DNA into/onto the dirt, likely through decomposition. If dirt had DNA, and that DNA had the same properties as human DNA, then dirt would look exactly like humans.
All humans are 99.9 per cent identical and, of that tiny 0.1 per cent difference, 94 per cent of the variation is among individuals from the same populations and only six per cent between individuals from different populations. DNA survey finds all humans are 99.9pc the same. By Roger Highfield, Science Editor. 12:01AM GMT 20 Dec 2002. Whether you hail from Surbiton, Ulan Bator or Nairobi, your genetic make-up is strikingly similar to that of every other person on Earth, an analysis concludes today.
No. But the chimpanzee's DNA is similar to ours by 98%     People believe that we humans developed from the '   chimpanzee because of how similar our DNA samples … . It   is thought that the chimpanzee is as intelligent as a   human but in different ways. There may be some DNA in some dirt samples, but this DNA does not belong to the dirt, rather to something that has somehow deposited its DNA into/onto the dirt, likely through decomposition. If dirt had DNA, and that DNA had the same properties as human DNA, then dirt would look exactly like humans.
Yes and No, humans share 99.9% of the same genetic material. The .1% is what makes everyone different from one another!. That .1% isn't actually a difference, it's simply the varying ratio between dormant/active DNA. In other words, everyone has the gene that makes ones skin naturally white or black. There may be some DNA in some dirt samples, but this DNA does not belong to the dirt, rather to something that has somehow deposited its DNA into/onto the dirt, likely through decomposition. If dirt had DNA, and that DNA had the same properties as human DNA, then dirt would look exactly like humans.
Yes and no. Yes their DNA, like every living thing’s DNA, is made of the same building blocks of A’s, T’s, G’s, and C’s. But their DNA isn’t exactly alike. All those A’s, T’s, G’s, and C’s are put together in different orders for dogs and people. 
Confidence votes 14. No. But the chimpanzee's DNA is similar to ours by 98% People believe that we humans developed from the ' chimpanzee because of how similar our DNA samples. It is thought that the chimpanzee is as intelligent as a human but in different ways
Some 90+% or so of human DNA is the same between members of the  same species, but in a single human body--We have two copies of  each chromosome, two copies of every gene, and it is possible to  have two copies of the same allele. There may be some DNA in some dirt samples, but this DNA does not belong to the dirt, rather to something that has somehow deposited its DNA into/onto the dirt, likely through decomposition. If dirt had DNA, and that DNA had the same properties as human DNA, then dirt would look exactly like humans.
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. Most DNA is located in the cell nucleus (where it is called nuclear DNA), but a small amount of DNA can also be found in the mitochondria (where it is called mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA).
Report Abuse. No animals share the same DNA as humans...because that would make them human. However, some have extremely similar DNA (like 98%). Animals included in this list are pigs, rats, dogs, chimpanzees....Most mammals have strikingly similar DNAs. ic1212 · 9 years ago. Report Abuse. None share all the DNa, though all living things have been found to share between 4% and 6% of their DNA code exactly. The organisms that share the most are the ones most closely related to us, such as chimpanzees and monkeys. However, the total number of chromosomes differs in each case. Humans have 46 chromosomes, and even though the DNA is radically different, that is actually the same number as a rose bush