Shape and structure. In human beings the right adrenal gland is triangular shaped while the left suprarenal gland is shaped like half a moon or semilunar in shape. Each of the glands are around 4 to 6 cm in length. The outer part of the glands contains thick connective tissue capsule that sends thin fibers into the glandular tissues within. The adrenal cortex secretes corticosteroids, such as glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids. These hormones are responsible for responding to stress; using carbohydrates, fats and proteins; and regulating the salt and water balance in the body.
Diseases of the adrenal glands usually are caused by either too much or too little of any of these hormones. Adrenal insufficiency occurs when the adrenal gland is not producing enough hormones and is also called Addison's diseaseAddison's disease-a disease where not enough of the adrenal hormones are being made. The medulla is located in the center of the gland and makes adrenalineAdrenaline-the hormone that helps control the fight or flight response and puts the body on high alert (also known as epinephrine) and noradrenaline. These hormones are also known as epinephrine and norepinephrin
The adrenal glands, located on the top of each kidney, are responsible for releasing different classes of hormones. The outer part of the gland, called the adrenal cortex, produces the hormones cortisol (pronounced KAWR-tuh-sohl) and aldosterone (pronounced al-DOS-tuh-rohn). The inner part of the gland, called the adrenal medulla (pronounced muh-DUHL-uh), produces the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline.
The adrenal glands are orange-colored endocrine glands which are located on the top of both kidneys. The adrenal glands are triangular shaped and measure about one-half inch in height and 3 inches in length. Each gland consists of a medulla (the center of the gland) which is surrounded by the cortex. 
The cortex is located on the outer layer of the adrenal gland and makes a number of different hormones that help control the heart, kidneys, GI tract, bones, genitalia, and immune system. These hormones control carbohydrate metabolism, muscular integrity, hemodynamic changes, and sexual maturity. The medulla is located in the center of the gland and makes adrenalineAdrenaline-the hormone that helps control the fight or flight response and puts the body on high alert (also known as epinephrine) and noradrenaline. These hormones are also known as epinephrine and norepinephrine
1 The adrenal cortex—the outer part of the gland—produces hormones that are vital to life, such as cortisol (which helps regulate metabolism and helps your body respond to stress) and aldosterone (which helps control blood pressure). Hormones of the Adrenal Glands. The adrenal cortex and the adrenal medulla have very different functions. One of the main distinctions between them is that the hormones released by the adrenal cortex are necessary for life; those secreted by the adrenal medulla are not.
For years the adrenal gland remained a behind-the-scenes player in the development of several chronic conditions, like fibromyalgia (for more common questions and expert answers on Fibromyalgia, visit Sharecare.com) and chronic fatigue. Few patients know about or understand this gland. The health of the adrenal gland can and will dictate the health and recovery of many types of chronic illness, though the topic can get confusing. The adrenal gland should make the necessary amount of hormones in a balance, without producing too much or too little.
The adrenal glands (also known as suprarenal glands) are endocrine glands that produce a variety of hormones including adrenaline and the steroids aldosterone and cortisol. They are found above the kidneys and consist of a series of layers with different structure and functions. 
Each person has two adrenal glands, one above each kidney. Each adrenal is small weighing about 15grams. The adrenal produces four major types of hormones; 1. Glucocorticoids.- the major one is known as cortisol. Each person has two adrenal glands, one above each kidney. Each adrenal is small weighing about 15grams. The adrenal produces four major types of hormones 1. Glucocorticoids. … - the major one is known as cortisol. Cortisol is important to maintain life and to protect against stress.