Hainan temperature: Most of area on Hainan Island has yearly average temperature in between 22.5-25.6 C, it has warm weather all year around, the highest average temperature falls in July-August at 25-29 and the lowest average temperature falls in January-February at 16-24. Sanya's rainfall is lower then the other area of Hainan island, and 1/3 of the yearly rainfall comes with the typhoon, at the same time the concentrative rainfall makes Sanya weather a feature of 300 shinning days a year.
Sanya (simplified Chinese: 三亚; traditional Chinese: 三亞; pinyin: Sānya) sānyà is the southernmost city On Hainan, island and one of the three-prefecture level cities Of Hainan, province In Southeast. china 
Hainan island on the southern part of China, is an island of Monsoon weather. This island, which has become a prime travel attraction in China, draws the travelers towards it mainly because of its marvelous weather all year. Hainan Island is a Tropical island and has the tropical weather. Monsoon weather is observed in the Hainan island in China. Hainan is situated in the southern most part of China and that is why the weather here is a little different from the main land. In Hainan, weather varies according to the variety of landscapes. In this island there are rivers and mountains and Hainan is open to the sea also. In the coastal areas the temperature remains relatively cold compared to the North and Eastern parts of Hainan.
Hainan Island Weather. Hainan's climate is predominantly of the monsoon tropical variety and hence experiences annual average temperatures between 22 and 26oC and annual precipitation from 1,500mm to 2,000mm. The island experiences a rainy season from May through until October, during which time the majority of its annual rainfall occurs
Hainan Island enjoys a monsoon sub tropical AND tropical climate with annual average temperatures ranging between 18°C (65°F) and 28°C (82°F) and annual rainfall between 1,500 mm and 2,000 mm. An average of about 12 hours per day have daylight and more than 300 days of a year, on average, are sunny. The average annual temperatures of Hainan Island hover at a beautiful 22-28 degrees Celsius. However April through June can be very hot and humid.
In the tropical monsoon climate, the temperature in Hainan does not change much throughout the year. The average temperature during the year ranges from 23 °C (73 °F) to 26 °C (79 °F). Light, heat, and water resources are abundant in Hainan, and the country sees frequent damage from typhoons. Hainan enjoys long days of sunshine, as it sees about 2,200 annual hours of sunshine, and average annual rainfall is about 2,000 mm. Please remember to obtain more information about Hainan's weather a week before you plan to travel to the area
Hainan's autumn is from mid-November to December. The temperature is cooler than in the summer and it is a little humid. The average temperature during this season is 23 °C (74 °F); long-sleeve shirts and a sweater are recommended. This season may be the best time to visit the beach, as it is breezy by the sea. Light, heat, and water resources are abundant in Hainan, and the country sees frequent damage from typhoons. Hainan enjoys long days of sunshine, as it sees about 2,200 annual hours of sunshine, and average annual rainfall is about 2,000 mm. Please remember to obtain more information about Hainan's weather a week before you plan to travel to the ar
Haikou Weather Forecast. Sanya Weather: Sanya weather is characterized with tropical oceanic monsoon climate, with yearly average temperature stays at 25.4 C., Sanya weather is warm all year around, and no matter believe or not, 35.7 C. is the historical supreme Sanya temperature on record. Sanya's rainfall is lower then the other area of Hainan island, and 1/3 of the yearly rainfall comes with the typhoon, at the same time the concentrative rainfall makes Sanya weather a feature of 300 shinning days a year.