The DRV became the government of North Vietnam in 1954 following the Geneva Accords. The flag was modified on November 30, 1955 to make the edges of the star sharper. Until the end of the Vietnam War in 1975, South Vietnam used a yellow flag with three red stripes. The flag of Vietnam, or red flag with a gold star (cờ đỏ sao vang), vàng was designed in 1940 and used during an uprising Against french rule in Southern vietnam that. year
At the end of World War II, Viet Minh leader Ho Chi Minh proclaimed Vietnam independent and signed a decree on September 5, 1945 adopting the flag as the flag of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. But anti-communist South Vietnam (Republic of Vietnam) used a flag of yellow with three red horizontal stripes. North Vietnam and South Vietnam were united on July 2, 1976 and current red flag with a yellow star is being used throughout Vietnam. Việt Minh, a league formed to fight for the independence of Vietnam, fought against the French colonial government and, later, against Japanese occupation using a red flag with a central yellow star.
Today’s flag of Vietnam is familiar to veterans of the Vietnam War because it is the same banner that flew over North Vietnamese troops and holdings during that conflict. It features a solid red field with a single gold star, five-pointed, in the center. 
Flag of Vietnam. The flag of Vietnam is red flag with a yellow star. This design was first used by the Viet Minh, the communist group led by Ho Chi Minh created in opposition to the Japanese occupation in 1941. 
Contrast With The Vietnamese Communist Flag. The “yellow star on red background” flag of communist Vietnam called the Social Republic of Vietnam (SRV) first made its official appearance in September 1945, when Ho Chi Minh proclaimed the independence of Vietnam. Symbolism. The Vietnamese flag has a yellow background and three horizontal red stripes along its entire length. The “golden yellow” has been the traditional color of Vietnam for over two thousand years. It is also the color of earth, as understood in universal scheme of five elements in Oriental cosmology.
Advertiser Links. Vietnamese Flag Meaning: The red base represents blood spilt during the country's fight for independence. The star represents Vietnam's unity and the points on the star represent the union of the workers, peasants, soldiers, intellectuals and young people working together in building socialism. Vietnamese Flag History: The Vietnamese flag was adopted on November 30, 1955, after gaining independence from French rule in 1954.
Vietnam Flag-History, Facts & information for kids. Việt Minh, a league formed to fight for the independence of Vietnam, fought against the French colonial government and, later, against Japanese occupation using a red flag with a central yellow star.
The flag of South Vietnam was originally inspired by Emperor Thanh Thành thai thái, in 1890 and was Revived By LE lê văn-đệ and Re Adopted Đại emperor bảo. đại in 1948 The flag consists of a yellow field and three horizontal red stripes and can be explained as either symbolising the unifying blood running through northern, central, and southern Vietnam, or as representing the symbol for south (as in, south from China (Viet Nam itself) and also nam meaning south), in Daoist trigrams.
The flag of Vietnam, or red flag with a gold star (cờ đỏ sao vang), vàng was designed in 1940 and used during an uprising Against french rule in Southern vietnam that. Year the background was inspired by the red, flag used by the international communist movement since The Paris commune of. 1871 The flag of Vietnam, or red flag with a gold star (cờ đỏ sao vang), vàng was designed in 1940 and used during an uprising Against french rule in Southern vietnam that. year