Scleroderma is called both a rheumatic disease and a connective tissue disease. The term rheumatic disease refers to a group of conditions characterized by inflammation and/or pain in the muscles, joints, or fibrous tissue. A connective tissue disease is one that affects tissues such as skin, tendons, and cartilage. This is the term for the form of the disease that not only includes the skin, but also involves the tissues beneath, the blood vessels, and the major organs. Systemic sclerosis is typically broken down into limited cutaneous scleroderma and diffuse cutaneous scleroderma.
75mm (3”) allowed with a minimum separation of 600mm (24”). Coated Vision Glass Inspection Criteria per ASTM C 1376 – 03 Terminology: coating rub —a surface abrasion of appreciable width that has partial, or complete, removal of the coating producing a hazy appearance. coating scratch —partial, or complete, removal of the coating along a thin straight or curved line. Heat treated Glass Inspection Criteria per ASTM C 1048 – 04 Terminology: bow/warp, —Curvature across the entire dimension(s) of the lite crush ,—lightly pitted condition with a dull gray appearance. dig ,—deep, short scratch. dirt ,—small particle of foreign matter embedded in the surface of flat glass.
Inspection: Linear and point blemishes in glass should be evaluated per ASTM C 1036 – 06. Coating related defects should be evaluated per ASTM C 1376 – 03. Strain pattern, this is considered a normal part of the heat treating process and is not considered a defect. scratch ,—damage on a glass surface in the form of a line caused by the movement of an object across and in contact with the glass surface. strain pattern, —In heat-strengthened and fully tempered glass, a strain pattern, which is not normally visible, may become visible under certain light conditions.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma: Squamous cell carcinoma is the most common form of cancer on the skin of the feet. Most types of early squamous cell carcinoma are confined to the skin and do not spread. However, when advanced, some can become more aggressive and spread throughout the body. 
Though it is often referred to as if it were a single disease, scleroderma is really a symptom of a group of diseases that involve the abnormal growth of connective tissue, which supports the skin and internal organs. It is sometimes used, therefore, as an umbrella term for these disorders. This is the term for the form of the disease that not only includes the skin, but also involves the tissues beneath, the blood vessels, and the major organs. Systemic sclerosis is typically broken down into limited cutaneous scleroderma and diffuse cutaneous scleroderma.
Inspired by the Arts and Crafts tradition, the Linear storage collection is built in a small woodworking shop in northern Wisconsin. Its refined, yet durable design features details like dovetail joinery and handcrafted hardware. Linear is available in two distinctive finishes that highlight the beauty of solid wood: natural wood protected with oil and wax or stained wood sealed with lacquer.
Linear. Inspired by the Arts and Crafts tradition, the Linear storage collection is built in a small woodworking shop in northern Wisconsin. Its refined, yet durable design features details like dovetail joinery and handcrafted hardware. Linear is available in two distinctive finishes that highlight the beauty of solid wood: natural wood protected with oil and wax or stained wood sealed with lacquer. With a variety of sizes and configurations, it's easy to find a Linear dresser that works in your space. See the full Linear collectio
linear blemish, —scratches, rubs, digs, and other similar imperfections. point blemish, —crush, knots, dirt, stones, gaseous inclusions, and other similar imperfections. rub, —abrasion of a glass surface producing a frosted appearance. scratch ,—damage on a glass surface in the form of a line caused by the movement of an object across and in contact with the glass surface. strain pattern, —In heat-strengthened and fully tempered glass, a strain pattern, which is not normally visible, may become visible under certain light conditions.
C See 6.1.1.2 for measurement of point blemishes. D For Q1 and Q2 only, the blemish size includes associated distortion (see 6.1.1.2). E Provided that normally nondetectable blemishes do not form a cluster that is detectable at 1800 mm (6 ft). F See 6.1.1.4 for minimum blemish separation.