A: Phentermine is a prescription medication that is used for short-term weight loss. It is chemically related to amphetamines and works by suppressing the appetite and could have an effect on metabolism. The prescribing information on phentermine does not specifically list nosebleeds as a side effect of the medication. A: Phentermine (Adipex P) is classified as an anorexiant and as a sympathomimetic. Phentermine is approved for the short-term treatment of obesity. Phentermine works in the body as a stimulant that suppresses appetite by its effects on the CNS (central nervous system).
Phentermine (Adipex-P, Suprenza) is an amphetamine-like prescription medication used to suppress appetite. It can help weight loss by decreasing your hunger or making you feel full longer. Phentermine is also available in a combination medication for weight loss (Qsymia). Like other prescription weight-loss drugs, phentermine is intended to be used as part of an overall weight-loss plan. It is indicated for people who are obese, and who have failed to lose enough weight with diet and exercise alone — not for people who want to lose just a few pounds.
Phentermine is the generic form of the brand-name drugs Adipex-P, Suprenza, and Ionamin, which are used for weight loss. Phentermine decreases appetite and stimulates the body to burn calories more quickly. A: Phentermine (Adipex P) is classified as an anorexiant and as a sympathomimetic. Phentermine is approved for the short-term treatment of obesity. Phentermine works in the body as a stimulant that suppresses appetite by its effects on the CNS (central nervous system).
Phentermine is a prescription weight loss medication that was first FDA approved in 1959 and is sold under brand names Ionamin and Adipex among others and as well as a generic version. It is by far the most popular diet pill and has enjoyed a great success rate for obese people who need to lose weight in the short term. While phentermine is a very successful weight loss pill it is only used for people classified as obese and then it is only used for a short period of time due to the many side effects and threat of addiction.
A: Phentermine (Adipex-P) is a stimulant used for weight loss. Phentermine is approved for use in patients with a body mass index BMI of greater than 30 kg/m2 or greater than 27 kg/m2 in patients with other risk factors such as diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure. A: Phentermine (Adipex P) is classified as an anorexiant and as a sympathomimetic. Phentermine is approved for the short-term treatment of obesity. Phentermine works in the body as a stimulant that suppresses appetite by its effects on the CNS (central nervous system).
A: Phentermine is a weight loss drug to be used in combination with a healthy diet and exercise program. Common side effects for phentermine include dizziness, headache, trouble sleeping, overstimulation, restlessness, tremor, high blood pressure, palpitations, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and dry mouth. A: Phentermine (Adipex P) is classified as an anorexiant and as a sympathomimetic. Phentermine is approved for the short-term treatment of obesity. Phentermine works in the body as a stimulant that suppresses appetite by its effects on the CNS (central nervous system).
Phentermine is a stimulant that is similar to an amphetamine. Phentermine is an appetite suppressant that affects the central nervous system. Phentermine is used together with diet and exercise to treat obesity (overweight) in people with risk factors such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or diabetes. Phentermine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Phentermine is an appetite suppressant that affects the central nervous system. Phentermine is used together with diet and exercise to treat obesity (overweight) in people with risk factors such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or diabetes. Phentermine is only part of a complete program of treatment that may also include diet, exercise, and weight control. Follow your diet, medication, and exercise routines very closely. Phentermine may be habit-forming and should be used only by the person it was prescribed for.
Phentermine is a prescription that helps aid weight-loss and is designed for short-term use with a combination of exercise and a healthy diet. Phentermine is FDA approved but it's currently being studied in combination with other medications for obesity. The first such combination is the appetite suppressant phentermine/topiramate (Qsymia, formerly Qnexa). In 2012, the FDA approved its sale in the United States. It is used medically as an appetite suppressant. Phentermine is approved in Australia as an appetite suppressant and is medically prescribed as a diet pill; intended for obese patients and patients that are considered a medical risk due to weight.