Take a screenshot of a window. 1  Press Command (⌘)-Shift-4. 2  Press the Space bar. 3  Move the camera pointer over the window to highlight it. 4  Click your mouse or trackpad. 5  Find the screenshot as a .png file on your desktop.
Take a screenshot of part of your screen. 1  Press Command (⌘)-Shift-4. 2  Move the crosshair pointer to where you want to start the screenshot. 3  Drag to select an area. 4  When you've selected the area you want, release your mouse or trackpad button. 5  Find the screenshot as a .png file on your desktop.
1. Command-Shift-3. It captures a screenshot of your entire screen. 2. Command-Shift-4. It turns the cursor into a crosshair, which you can drag to select a portion of your screen to capture. Release the mouse button or trackpad to take the shot.
1 To take a picture of your entire screen, click on Screen (or just use the keyboard command Apple Key + Z). 2  A window will pop up telling you where to click and letting you know that the window will not appear in the shot. 3  To take a picture of a portion of your screen, click on Selection.
1 To take a screenshot of the entire screen, press the Print Screen (it could also be labeled as PrtScn or PrtScrn) button on your keyboard. 2  It can be found near the top, to the right of all the F keys (F1, F2, etc) and often in line with the arrow keys.
To take a screenshot and save it as a file. Press the Windows logo key +PrtScn. Or, if you're using a tablet, press the Windows logo button + the volume down button. The screen will dim for a moment when the screen is copied and saved as a file in the Screenshots folder (which is in your Pictures folder).
Take a screenshot of a window. 1  Press Command (⌘)-Shift-4. 2  You'll see that your cursor changes to a camera pointer. 3  Press the Space bar. 4  Move the camera pointer over the window to highlight it. 5  Click your mouse or trackpad. 6  Or to cancel, press Escape (esc) before you click.
1 To take a screenshot of just the program that is active, press and hold the Alt button (found on either side of the space bar), then press the Print Screen button. 2  To view this screenshot further or save as an image, you can use Microsoft Paint (Paint) or any other graphics program.
To take a screenshot of a part of the screen, press Shift-Command-4.. This turns the cursor into a crosshair. Move the crosshair to one corner of the area you want to capture, like an image, menu or an app window. Hold the left mouse button and drag the crosshair to select an area.