Background. Spina bifida is a treatable spinal cord malformation that occurs in varying degrees of severity. Classified as a defect of the neural tube (ie, the embryonic structure that develops into the spinal cord and brain), it was recognized as long as 4000 years ago. 
Spina Bifida Overview. Spina bifida (“cleft spine”) is a birth defect affecting the spinal column. Spina bifida progresses from a cleft, or splitlike opening, in the back part of the backbones (the spinal vertebrae). In more severe cases, it involves the spinal cord. 
Spina bifida, meningocele, and myelomeningocele. Congenital abnormalities of the spinal cord and vertebral column are not uncommon. You may see: Spina bifida alone, in which the arches of a child's vertebrae remain open, usually in his lumbar region. 
A lipomyelomeningocele that can invade the spinal cord and cause weakness and bladder problems. A lipomyelomeningocele (pronounced lipo-my-elo-men-IN-go-seal) is a rare birth defect. It affects a child's backbone (spine). A lipomyelomeningocele is a fatty mass that is located under the skin on the child's back. It is usually located in the middle of the back. The mass goes inward to the spinal canal.
Spina bifida occulta. This mildest form results in a small separation or gap in one or more of the bones (vertebrae) of the spine. Because the spinal nerves usually aren't involved, most children with this form of spina bifida have no signs or symptoms and experience no neurological problems. 
Conclusion. Sacral myelomeningocele is type of spina bifida that presents as a cystic swelling in the lower back of the baby. Its exact cause is not known and multiple factors are considered to be associated with this defect. It can be detected prenatally by some screening tests. 
Meningocele. This is considered a mild to moderate form of spina bifida and is the least common. A small, moist sac or cyst protrudes through the gap in the spine. This sac contains a portion of the spinal cord membrane (meninges), and some spinal fluid. Myelomeningocele. This is a severe form of spina bifida in which the spinal cord and nerves develop outside the baby’s body, resulting in weakness and loss of sensation below the defect.
Spina Bifida (Myelomeningocele). Becoming a patient. We are reachable 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: 832-822-2229. Myelomeningocele, the most common form of spina bifida, is in a class of problems referred to as open neural tube defects (ONTD). Spina bifida is one of the most common birth defects
Occult intrasacral meningocele is a rare congenital lesion characterised by the presence of a cyst within the sacral thecal sac. It is an extradural sacral arachnoid cyst, not a true meningocele, since meninges are not involved. 
Meningocele repair is an operation to address a type of birth defect in which the spine does not develop properly and a small, swollen sac or cyst protrudes from a newborn’s spinal column. The procedure usually takes place within 12 to 48 hours of a baby’s birth. Myelomeningocele. This is a severe form of spina bifida in which the spinal cord and nerves develop outside the baby’s body, resulting in weakness and loss of sensation below the defect.