•If two pieces of timber with a 4% difference in moisture content are glued together, the joint strength can be reduced by as much as 50%. Conversely, I’ve just bought some oak planks from a particularly good local timber merchant, Eaton Timber of Bishops Castle, Shropshire.
As it’s possible for timber to hold more than its dry weight of water, it can have a moisture content greater than 100%. Timber with a moisture content greater than 20% is open to attack by dry rot spores and is normally regarded as green.
Timber exposed to air, will change its moisture content in line with changes in the atmosphere, and will shrink or swell accordingly. The tendency of the timber to shrink and swell with moisture content variation depends on the species and direction of the grain of the wood.
©Timber Queensland Limited Technical Data Sheet 27 - Measuring Moisture Content of Timber February 2005 - Page 1 Moisture Content Measurement Moisture contentMoisture content is simply the mass of moisture present in wooddivided by the mass of the wood with no moisture in it, expressedas a percentage.
The effect of moisture content (MC) on structural components is presented based on tests conducted at Chalmers University of Technology in Sweden. The shape of timber changes due to variations in moisture content (MC). In Scandinavia, the producers of timber normally dry timber to a moisture content of 18% MC. However, after the studs are built into the wall structure, for example, they may become distorted as a result of further drying in the structure.
The moisture content of a piece of timber is something many of us take for granted. We buy timber from the wood yard and expect it to be fit for purpose. Timber is normally kiln dried down to about 8-10% moisture content but it will quickly reabsorb moisture if it’s stored badly.
The moisture content of a piece of timber is measured as a ratio of the weight of the water in the wood relative to its dry weight and is given as a percentage (%MC).
Wet Timber Facts. •As a rough guide you will get between 1 and 2% shrinkage for every 5% change in moisture content. •In the worst case you could get 4mm shrinkage on a 100mm wide board if it went from 20% to 10% MC. Multiply that up to a 2ft wide board and you have an inch of shrinkage!