Stereotactic radiosurgery. Stereotactic radiosurgery is a nonsurgical, highly precise form of radiation therapy we use to treat cancers of the brain, lung, as well as other types of cancer that require a high degree of precision. With regular radiation therapy treatment, healthy tissue also receives radiation. 
Radiosurgery is surgery using radiation, that is, the destruction of precisely selected areas of tissue using ionizing radiation rather than excision with a blade. Like other forms of radiation therapy, it is usually used to treat cancer. In stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), the word stereotactic refers to a three-dimensional coordinate system that enables accurate correlation of a virtual target seen in the patient's diagnostic images with the actual target position in the patient anatomy.
Also called stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery delivers a higher, more targeted dose of radiation than external beam radiation therapy. A special device keeps the patient’s head still so that the radiation is accurately aimed at the tumor. Treatment time averages one to two hours. 
November 18, 2010January 16, 2014 by Colorado CyberKnife. Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT), also called stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR), is a type of radiation therapy in which a few very high doses of radiation are delivered to small, well-defined tumors. 
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is used to treat conditions involving the brain or spine including: 1  Cancers that start in the brain (gliomas and other primary brain tumors). 2  Cancers that spread to the brain (brain metastases). 3  Benign tumors arising from the membranes covering the brain (meningiomas). Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is used to treat small tumors in the chest, abdomen or pelvis that cannot be removed surgically or treated with conventional radiation therapy, including: 1  Small lung cancers. 2  Cancers that started elsewhere and spread to the lung (lung
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a type of radiation therapy that is very precise and very powerful. Instead of many doses of radiation therapy to treat a problem area, SRS usually consists of a single treatment of a very high dose of radiation in a very focused location. Sometimes, it may consist of a few treatments. Stereotactic Radiosurgery. Sometimes, surgery is not possible to treat a disease due to the location of the problem or the poor health of the patient. Brain tumors, blood vessel issues, and some nervous system conditions are very difficult to address with a scalpel. Stereotactic radiosurgery may be used to treat some of these problem
Stereotactic radiation therapy is a type of external radiation therapy that uses special equipment to position the patient and precisely deliver radiation to a tumor. The total dose of radiation is divided into several smaller doses given over several days. Stereotactic radiation therapy is used to treat brain tumors and other brain disorders. It is also being studied in the treatment of other types of cancer, such as lung cancer. Also called stereotactic external-beam radiation therapy and stereotaxic radiation therapy. What differentiates Stereotactic from conventional radiotherapy is the precision with which it is delivered
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a non-surgical radiation therapy used to treat functional abnormalities and small tumors of the brain. It can deliver precisely-targeted radiation in fewer high-dose treatments than traditional therapy, which can help preserve healthy tissue. 
Stereotactic radiosurgery of the brain and spine is typically completed in a single session. Body radiosurgery is used to treat lung, liver, adrenal and other soft tissue tumors, and treatment typically involves multiple sessions. 