The ribosome has a small and a large subunit and is a complex molecule composed of several ribosomal RNA molecules and a number of proteins. Translation of an mRNA molecule by the ribosome occurs in three stages: initiation, elongation, and termination. During initiation, the small ribosomal subunit binds to the start of the mRNA sequence. Then a transfer RNA (tRNA) molecule carrying the amino acid methionine binds to what is called the start codon of the mRNA sequence. The start codon in all mRNA molecules has the sequence AUG and codes for methionine.
noun. A step in protein biosynthesis wherein the genetic code carried by mRNA is decoded to produce the specific sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain. The process follows transcription in which the DNA sequence is copied (or transcribed) into an mRNA. Supplement.
Report Abuse. Transcription is the synthesis of mRNA codons are base triplets in a mRNA translation is the decoding of the mRNA into a sequence of amino acids. An anticodon is a unit made up of three nucleotides that correspond to the three bases of the codon on the mRNA. 
During translation, an mRNA sequence is read using the genetic code, which is a set of rules that defines how an mRNA sequence is to be translated into the 20-letter code of amino acids, which are the building blocks of proteins. During initiation, the small ribosomal subunit binds to the start of the mRNA sequence. Then a transfer RNA (tRNA) molecule carrying the amino acid methionine binds to what is called the start codon of the mRNA sequence. The start codon in all mRNA molecules has the sequence AUG and codes for methionine.
translation / RNA translation. Translation is the process by which a protein is synthesized from the information contained in a molecule of messenger RNA (mRNA). During initiation, the small ribosomal subunit binds to the start of the mRNA sequence. Then a transfer RNA (tRNA) molecule carrying the amino acid methionine binds to what is called the start codon of the mRNA sequence. The start codon in all mRNA molecules has the sequence AUG and codes for methionine.
Translation is the process by which messenger RNA used as a template to make the corresponding protein. 
Translation is an activity comprising the interpretation of the meaning of a text in one language — the source text — and the production, in another language, of a new, equivalent text — the target text, or translation. Translation vs. interpreting. A distinction is made between translation, which consists of transferring from one language to another ideas expressed in writing, and interpreting, which consists of transferring ideas expressed orally or by the use of gestures (as in the case of sign language).
In molecular biology and genetics, translation is the process in which cellular ribosomes create proteins. In translation, messenger RNA (mRNA) —produced by transcription from DNA —is decoded by a ribosome to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide. The polypeptide later folds into an active protein and performs its functions in the cell. In brief, translation proceeds in four phases: 1  Initiation: The ribosome assembles around the target mRNA. 2  The first tRNA is attached at the start codon. 3  Elongation: The tRNA transfers an amino acid to the tRNA corresponding to the next codon.
Translation is a term used in geometry to describe a function that moves an object a certain distance. The object is not altered in any other way. It is not rotated, reflected or re-sized. In a translation, every point of the object must be moved in the same direction and for the same distance. When you are performing a translation, the initial object is called the pre-image, and the object after the translation is called the image. So, in the picture above, the rust-colored item is the pre-image, and the blue item is the image