1 The length of time it takes for your seeds to germinate is heavily related to soil temperature. 2  Tomato seeds should germinate within 5-6 days if you can keep the soil temperature around 80º F. Peppers take a little longer with a little higher temperature (7-8 days at 85º F). 
Start tomato plants from seeds indoors 6 to 8 weeks before your last frost. To prepare your tomato plants to be transferred outdoors, start your seedlings indoors while it is still cold outside. Cool temperatures in early spring can stunt growth or even kill young seedlings. Dry your own seeds from a ripe tomato. You can actually squeeze the seeds from a ripe tomato and grow seedlings from them. Refer to section two, Fermenting Your Own Seeds, below for instructions on how to prepare wet seeds for planting.
Light is not needed during the germination process, but will not be harmful as long as high temperatures are avoided. Tomato seeds usually germinate within 5 to 10 days when kept in the optimum temperature range of 70 to 80F (21 to 27C). Germination is delayed by lower temperatures and accelerated by higher temperatures. Temperatures below 50F (10C) or above 95F (35C) are detrimental to germination. 
Plant your germinated seeds in seed cell trays within 12-24 hours of sprouting. Be careful to not allow the seed’s root to grow too long while still in the paper towel, or the root will penetrate the paper and be difficult to manipulate without breakage. Once the root is broken, your seed will no longer be viable. 
Starting seeds too late delays harvest. The best place to set the germinated seeds, or seedlings, indoors is in front of a sunny, south-facing window. If you do not have a sunny location, place two 4-foot long, 40-watt grow lights about 2 inches above the seedlings. Bright light is important to produce sturdy seedlings
Seed Germination. Soil temperature has an effect on how quickly seeds germinate. If the soil is at 75 degrees Fahrenheit, seeds usually germinate in about seven days. Cooler temperatures slow germination, with seeds in 60 degrees F soil taking two weeks to sprout. If the soil temperature goes down to 50 degrees F, seeds take about 43 days to germinate. Fill the pots with growing medium to within 1 inch of the rim. Sow seeds 1/4 inch deep and spaced 1 inch apart, or about two or three seeds per pot.
Starting the process of growing tomatoes are tomato seeds. It is best to plant your tomatoes indoors to start with, you can put them in small containers. The best time to start planting is eight to ten weeks before the last frost date in your area. The seeds should be planted about 1/8 of af an inch into the soil, use seed starting soil to plant your seeds.
Tomato seeds often are germinated indoors and transplanted to a garden after the danger of frost passes and soil warms, which is usually in April, May or early June. When given proper care, a tomato plant can provide 10 to 15 or more pounds of fruit. The best place to set the germinated seeds, or seedlings, indoors is in front of a sunny, south-facing window. If you do not have a sunny location, place two 4-foot long, 40-watt grow lights about 2 inches above the seedlings.
Wait for Germination: If temperature is kept consistently and sufficiently warm, your tomato seeds will usually germinate within 5 to 10 days. Best to keep temperature range 70 to 80F (21 to 27C). The lower the temperature the slower the germination. However, temperatures below 50F (10C) or above 95F (35C) are poor for germination.
- Back to Top-Copyright 1998 - 2015 -- All rights reserved -- the Victory Seed Company. Growing Tomatoes from Seed: It really is not difficult to grow tomatoes from seed but does take a little bit of planning. Start the seeds indoors 6 to 8 weeks prior to the last frost date in your area (refer to the Frost Pages). Plant about 1/4 inch deep, in flats or small pots using sterile seed starting material. This will help to prevent soil born disease problems.