Cordyceps is a unique nutritional herb that has been used for many centuries in China, Japan, and other Asian countries. From a nutritional viewpoint, Cordyceps is a well-balanced nutritious whole food. Each vegetarian capsule contains 500 mg of Cordyceps Sinensis and 20 mg of Lipase. Of the twelve strains of Cordyceps grown in China, the Cordyceps Sinensis is the most potent and famous strain. Wild Cordyceps Sinensis grows high in the Tibetan plateau at elevations over 13,000 feet and in very small quantities. It sells for around $1000 per kg (US).
Now with the laboratory grown cordyceps you can get 45 grams of an 8:1 (8x potency) extract for a mere $21. That's about $4,500 cheaper by weight!!! The lab grown mushrooms are also vegetarian and don't require an insect as its host. Interesting facts about cordyceps sinensis: In ancient China only emperors were allowed to use the cordyceps fungus because it was so scarce. The emperors of ancient China had a queen and often a very large harem of women that they had to satisfy and impregnate on a regular basis.
The cordyceps fungus was revered by the Chinese emperors as a sex tonic. Holding a place among the world's most powerful adaptogenic herbs, the cordyceps fungus is a variety of mushroom that contains hundreds, if not thousands of species. The most widely used species for herbal medicinal purposes is cordyceps sinensis. Often referred to as the club fungus due to its clublike shape, this medicinal mushroom is called dong chong zia cao in Chinese, which literally translates as summer-plant, winter worm. Interesting facts about cordyceps sinensis: In ancient China only emperors were allowed to use the cordyceps fungus because it was so scarce. The emperors of ancient China had a queen and often a very large harem of women that they had to satisfy and impregnate on a regular basis.
Cordyceps (Cordyceps sinensis) is known as a powerful tonic which gives the body increased vitality and energy and has significant additional benefits. KALA Health's Cordyceps (CS4 strain) mycelium is organically grown in the Pacific Northwest. Our Cordyceps is guaranteed free of heavy metals, pesticides, fungi and bacteria. Each batch is analyzed by an independent laboratory, and standardized to guarantee its quality and strength.
China is a major producer of Cordyceps. The C. sinensis is grown in a very restricted habitat, and the yield is decreasing every year. In China, the parasitic complex is found in the soil of a prairie at an elevation of 3500 to 5000 meters, mainly in the provinces of Qinghai, Tibet, Sichuan, Yunnan and Gansu (Fig. 1)
Cordyceps Press Release-August 10, 2004. For the first time ever, Cordyceps has been cultivated in the laboratory that exceeds the potency of wild collected Cordyceps by more than 5 times the potency! Analysis of Wild Collected Cordyceps and Aloha Medicinals Lab-Cultivated Cordyceps reveals startling news! This is exactly the opposite of the way in which all other mushrooms are grown. Warm-and-wet is the usual rule for mushroom cultivation. While other experimenters are growing their Cordyceps in only four or five days, Aloha Medicinals takes nearly six months to grow out a batch.
Cordyceps sinensis. Probably the most unusual of all medicinal mushrooms, the Cordyceps sinensis is a fungus that grows on a caterpillar. It is very rare and only found in the highlands of Tibet and a few Chinese, Nepalese, Indian and Bhutanese regions, 3000-5000 meters above sea level. 
Cordyceps has been used in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) to treat fatigue and other ailments for over 1500 years. Of the twelve strains of Cordyceps grown in China, the Cordyceps Sinensis is the most potent and famous strain. Wild Cordyceps Sinensis grows high in the Tibetan plateau at elevations over 13,000 feet and in very small quantities. It sells for around $1000 per kg (US).
The entire Chinese Olympic team has been rumored to use cordyceps (and probably a variety of other Chinese tonic herbs!) to increase their edge. In the spring of 1993 eight Chinese female runners broke the 2:27 hour mark in the Tianjin marathon. This was an incredible achievement from just one nation. Interesting facts about cordyceps sinensis: In ancient China only emperors were allowed to use the cordyceps fungus because it was so scarce. The emperors of ancient China had a queen and often a very large harem of women that they had to satisfy and impregnate on a regular basis.
Cordyceps (Cordyceps sinensis) is known as a powerful tonic which gives the body increased vitality and energy and has significant additional benefits. (Georges Halpern, MD, Ph.D. in:  Cordyceps, China's Healing Mushroom, 1999. Avery Publishing Group, New York). KALA Health's Cordyceps (CS4 strain) mycelium is organically grown in the Pacific Northwest. Our Cordyceps is guaranteed free of heavy metals, pesticides, fungi and bacteria. Each batch is analyzed by an independent laboratory, and standardized to guarantee its quality and strength.