Tagged With: administrator, bonding company, executor, executor bond, Executor bond Illinois, executor bonds, illinois, Illinois courts, probate bond, surety bond. About Master. Tell us what you're thinking... and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get a gravatar! Probate bonds may vary state-to-state making it difficult to know what the state mandates and requires. To help make fiduciary bonds more understandable, Jurisco is putting together series of blog posts related to court bonds and state requirements.
Illinois Administrator of a deceased's estate Illinois Administrator of Estate Surety Bond amount is set by the court and is based on the value of the estate. Click for a No Obligation Quote Or click here to download a PDF version of the application. Executor Bond-Required when the deceased left a Will and named someone in the Will to serve as executor. The surety will usually want to see a copy of the Will to determine to complexity of handling the estate in Illinois Administrator Bond-Required when the deceased died intestate (without a Will).
You are applying for an Illinois Administrator of Estate Surety Bond.A free quote will be emailed to you within minutes! Illinois Administrator of a deceased's estate. Illinois Administrator of Estate Surety Bond amount is set by the court and is based on the value of the estate. Executor Bond-Required when the deceased left a Will and named someone in the Will to serve as executor. The surety will usually want to see a copy of the Will to determine to complexity of handling the estate in Illinois Administrator Bond-Required when the deceased died intestate (without a Will).
With bond in lieu of probate, you have to make an affidavit of heirship, certify to the will (if any), have all interested parties sign appropriate transfer documents (deeds, assignments, or whatever is appropriate), and purchase a surety bond sufficient to cover a loss for misapplication of the property. 
A court bond is a bit different than a probate bond, described above. Instead, a Court Bond is generally a bond that is used for another court-specific purpose. A Court Surety Bond, also known as a judicial bond, protects one party from a loss. The most typical type of court bonds are: A probate bond is a type of fiduciary bond (also known as an executor’s bond) in a probate court estate. It is a Illinois state court bond that is issued on the performance of an executor or administrator of an estate. The purpose of the bond is to protect the beneficiaries or creditors of the estate from harm caused by the malfeasance or negligence of the executor or administrator.
Probate/Fiduciary Bond Information. SuretyBonds.com is legally licensed to sell probate bonds in every state. For more information about your probate bond, call 1 (800) 308-4358 to speak with a surety expert. “Probate bond” and “fiduciary bond” are interchangeable umbrella terms that encompass the many court bond types required when individuals are appointed to act on behalf of others. Probate bond premiums are typically calculated at just .5%, or $5/thousand. This means $100,000 of coverage would cost just $500. The best way to determine your exact surety bond cost is to request a free probate bond quote now!
A surety bond is an insurance policy against wrongdoing. When your executor or your estate purchases one, the insurer agrees that if your executor errs in the process of settling your estate, either deliberately or unintentionally, it will compensate your beneficiaries for any money lost. 
A surety bond or surety is a promise by a surety or guarantor to pay one party (the obligee) a certain amount if a second party (the principal) fails to meet some obligation, such as fulfilling the terms of a contract. 
Executor Bond Illinois. January 26, 2012 by Master · Leave a Comment. Probate bonds may vary state-to-state making it difficult to know what the state mandates and requires. To help make fiduciary bonds more understandable, Jurisco is putting together series of blog posts related to court bonds and state requirements.