Wickiups. by R. Edward Moore. We built this wickiup right behind the Institute of Texan Cultures in San Antonio. The event was the South Texas Archeology Association's Archeology Fair. October is Archeology month in Texas. PAYPAL. Support Texas Indians
Wickiups were Apache Indian homes. The Apache bent young trees, creating a U shape. They attached the bent trees together to make an upside-down U-shaped home. The frame of bent young trees was covered with animal skin. There was one big room in a Wickiup, but each had an entrance added to the front. The entrance area was designed with a very low roof, so you had to bend over to enter a Wickiup.
This scene shows a woman resting in a grass-covered wickiup. Click to enlarge. Wickiups were homes to hunting and gathering peoples who moved from place to place, sometimes staying perhaps a few days or several weeks in one location. Their homes were easy to construct from wooden sticks and brush found at each campsite. Whereas tipis were tall and cone-shaped, wickiups were short and squat. But unlike tipis, which were taken apart and moved from place to place, wickiups were just left behind when Indian families moved on. These small, round houses were made of thin, flexible pieces of green wood bent to create a dome.
: a hut used by the nomadic Indians of the arid regions of the western and southwestern United States with a usually oval base and a rough frame covered with reed mats, grass, or brushwood; also: a rude temporary shelter or hut. See wickiup defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
wickiup. (wĭk`ēŭp') , temporary dwelling of nomadic Native North Americans. It is a framework of arched poles covered by brush, bark, rushes, or mats. The wickiup is found among Native Americans in Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, Idaho, and California. Sometimes other dwellings of tribes in this region are called wickiups even when made of more permanent materials. The name is also spelled wikiup. A relatively small, temporary, round dwelling of the Apache Indians of the American Southwest; could be reassembled relatively easily and quickly; had a lightweight framework formed by saplings lashed together at their tops so as to form either a domed structure or a conical structure.
A wigwam, wickiup or wetu is a domed dwelling formerly used by certain Native American and First Nations tribes, and still used for ceremonial purposes. Wigwams usually take longer to put up than tipis and their frames are usually not portable like a tipi. A typical wigwam in the Northeast had a curved surface which can hold up against the worst weather. Young green tree saplings of just about any type of wood, about ten to fifteen feet long were cut down.
It is a framework of arched poles covered by brush, bark, rushes, or mats. The wickiup is found among Native Americans in Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, Idaho, and California. Sometimes other dwellings of tribes in this region are called wickiups even when made of more permanent materials. 
(wĭk`ēŭp') , temporary dwelling of nomadic Native North Americans. It is a framework of arched poles covered by brush, bark, rushes, or mats. The wickiup is found among Native Americans in Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, Idaho, and California. Sometimes other dwellings of tribes in this region are called wickiups even when made of more permanent ... It is a framework of arched poles covered by brush, bark, rushes, or mats. The wickiup is found among Native Americans in Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, Idaho, and California. Sometimes other dwellings of tribes in this region are called wickiups even when made of more permanent material