Deca Durabolin, which is also known as Deca and Nandrolone decanoate, is one of the best performance enhancing drugs and anabolic steroids when it comes to stimulating endurance and muscle function gains.
The unusual properties of Deca Durabolin are due to its parent steroid, nandrolone, also known as 19-nortestosterone. One of the principal positive qualities of nandrolone is that it has relatively low conversion to estrogen compared to 
Deca Durabolin, which is also known as Deca and Nandrolone decanoate, is a popular anabolic steroid that is commonly recommended to provide dramatic relief to HIV/AIDS patients and use of this steroid is associated with immune system enhancements.
by Bill Roberts – Deca, also known as Deca Durabolin or nandrolone decanoate, is perhaps the second-best known injectable anabolic steroid after testosterone.
Deca Durabolin has an active life of 14-16 days and is detectable over a period of 16-18 months. Belonging to the category of anabolic-androgenic steroids and classified as a 2.16 anabolic steroid, Deca is a highly effective drug that is available in different forms such as creams, pills, capsules, and gels.
Deca-Durabolin® is the Organon brand name for the injectable steroid nandrolone decanoate. This compound came around early in the wave of commercial steroid development, first being made available as a prescription medication in 1962.
Deca Durabolin is one of the most effective and beneficial anabolic steroids of all time. Most men will tolerate this steroid quite well, and while it benefits the most advanced steroid user, it will be a great steroid for someone relatively new to supplementation.
Deca-Durabolin -- also known as nandrolone or simply as Deca -- is an anabolic steroid and illegal in the United States unless administered by a licensed physician. Favored by bodybuilders, Deca-Durabolin is a bulking steroid, as opposed to those that burn fat at an accelerated rate, and it's often sold illegally.
An anabolic androgenic steroid that has gained huge acceptability among professional bodybuilders and athletes, Deca Durabolin or Nandrolone Decanoate is undoubtedly the second-best known injectable steroid after Testosterone.