You may get folliculitis if you have damaged hair follicles. Shaving or wearing clothes that rub the skin can irritate the follicles, which can lead to folliculitis. They also can become blocked or irritated by sweat, machine oils, or makeup. When the follicles are injured, they are more likely to become infected. You are more likely to get folliculitis if you: 1  Use a hot tub, whirlpool, or swimming pool that is not properly treated with chlorine. 2  Wear tight clothes. 3  Use or work with substances that can irritate or block the follicles.
1 Scalp folliculitis affects the scalp hair follicles. 2  It is also known as ‘Proprionibacterium folliculitis’ or ‘acne necrotica miliaris.’ It causes tiny, intensely itchy pustules within the scalp, primarily affecting the frontal hairline. 3  The lesions may occur in small numbers or may be appear as many lesions. It is a condition caused due to infection of the hair follicles by Staphylococcus aureus or other bacteria. Some variants of folliculitis are also called barber’s itch or hot tub folliculitis. Extreme cases can result in scarring and permanent loss of hair.
Folliculitis. Folliculitis is caused by an infection of hair follicles, usually from the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus. Folliculitis may also be caused by viruses, fungi and even an inflammation from ingrown hairs. Damaged follicles are at risk of infection. The most common causes of follicle damage are: 1  Friction from shaving or tight clothing. 2  Heat and sweat, such as that caused by wearing rubber gloves or waders.
Various types of Superficial Folliculitis. Bacterial Folliculitis. The most common bacterial folliculitis causes are the Staphylococcus bacteria. Staphylococcus bacterial folliculitis is probably more common in those who have eczema and diabetes. It generally affects the face, scalp, upper trunk, buttocks and eyelids. Because of the superficial nature of the process, involvement of the scalp rarely leads to scarring, although temporary hair loss may occur.
Faster than Major Brands*. Scalp folliculitis is an infection or inflammation of the hair follicles. Killing infection-causing bacteria as quickly as possible puts you on the road to clear, healthy skin. Terrasil Skin Repair contains powerful antiseptic (bacteria-fighting) ingredients that protect against infection. Fight Infection for Fast Healing of Scalp Folliculitis. Scalp folliculitis is an infection or inflammation of the hair follicles, the small sacs beneath the skin from which hair develops and grows. Signs and symptoms include: 1  Patches of small, itchy, inflamed bumps. 2  Itchy pustules
Folliculitis is an inflammation of the hair follicles. Each hair on your body grows out of a tiny pouch called a follicle. You can have folliculitis on any part of your body that has hair. When the follicles are injured, they are more likely to become infected. You are more likely to get folliculitis if you: 1  Use a hot tub, whirlpool, or swimming pool that is not properly treated with chlorine. 2  Wear tight clothes. 3  Use or work with substances that can irritate or block the
Folliculitis is the inflammation of the hair follicles. This Scalp Skin Condition can appear anywhere on the skin where there are hair follicles. Folliculitis is often associated with infections and Autoimmune conditions effecting the Hair and Scalp Skin. Folliculitis can be caused by hair follicle damaged due to friction from clothing, insect bites or stings, shaving, scalp skin eruptions, trauma to the scalp from tight braids, traction from hair styling techniques and poor hair extension methods and maintenance.
Folliculitis is an infection of the hair follicles mainly with bacteria. Staphylococcus aureus is the most common bacteria that causes folliculitis. It is more likely to occur in a person who shaves the hair on the head and communal bathing like in hot tubs hence the common name hot tub folliculitis. 
Deep folliculitis is usually more severe. Follicles are densest on your scalp, and they occur everywhere on your body except your palms, soles, lips and mucous membranes. Damaged follicles are at risk of infection. The most common causes of follicle damage are: 1  Friction from shaving or tight clothing. 2  Heat and sweat, such as that caused by wearing rubber gloves or waders.