For example, homes with forced hot air heating will have the duct work necessary for a fast and easy installation, when the project involves the running of ducts however the prices climb significantly. The average price to install a central air conditioner will range from $2650 to upwards of $15K. This installation cannot be considered a DIY project, and it is traditional for a homeowner to hire a contractor for the job. For a central air conditioning installation, the basic points of payment include: 1  Contractor-this will be the individual who performs the manual J assessment of the home to determine the appropriate size for the unit(s).
1 Replacing aging, leaking or inadequate ductwork typically costs about $35-$55 a linear foot for labor and materials, or $1,000-$5,000 or more for a single-family home, depending on the length and type of ducts used (sheet metal, fiberduct or round flexible ductwork) and local rates. Type of Ducts: Flex. New Flex duct complete installation (9) drops with supply Plenum I'm hoping this is a reasonable price to replace ducts and sanitize my air conditioning blower. They're replacing original 1970's ducts which apparently have bacterial growth and also holes leaking cool air into the attic.
If you are installing an air conditioner for the first time, then making sure that all of this ductwork is in place can get costly. Generally, ductwork can tack on additional $2,000 to $3,000, and that will vary depending on the home. However, if you are simply replacing your air conditioning unit, then there may be little to no added cost for this component. Adding other updates, like a new thermostat, may also increase the total price. The national average cost is between $4,500 and $6,200, but it could be much higher (or lower) depending on your individual situation. Here are a few factors that will affect the overall cost of your installation project:
The cost to install a window air conditioner averages between $150 and $300, depending on the size you need. Installing a window air conditioning unit can bring added comfort for a reasonable price, but it will be less powerful than a central air conditioning system. Most homeowners report spending between $3,675 and $7,155 to have air conditioning installed. This price is more typical of a central A/C unit installation rather than a window air conditioner addition which typically averages about $300. Your total cost for the job will depend on the type of system you choose
The cost of materials, supplies and equipment allowance will run you another $50 to $100. Altogether, expect to spend between $3,350 and $5,500 to install an air conditioning unit, possibly as much as $8,000-$10,000 if you need duct work. More From around Improvenet. If your unit is too large for the space of your home, it will switch on and off repeatedly, wasting energy and costing you money. If your home is 1,600 square feet, a 2.5 ton air conditioner will cool it well. This will cost between $3,000 and $5,000.
1 DIY materials can cost $100-$2,000 or more, depending on the type of materials and total length. 2  For example, DIYNetwork estimates it takes a weekend and $100-$250 to replace a section of ductwork with flexible ducting and install a return vent, rating the project difficulty at moderate to hard. Type of Ducts: Flex. New Flex duct complete installation (9) drops with supply Plenum I'm hoping this is a reasonable price to replace ducts and sanitize my air conditioning blower. They're replacing original 1970's ducts which apparently have bacterial growth and also holes leaking cool air into the attic.
Central Air Conditioning. The average cost to add a central, or whole-house, air conditioning system to a home ranged from about $2,200 to $2,800 in 2012, according to Homewyse data. Central air conditioners move cool air throughout a house through a duct system. 
$10.64. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Duct! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your HVAC Duct Installation project. For a basic 60 linear feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Duct ranges between $6.95 - $10.64 per linear foot.
Pricing for air conditioning will vary depending on a number of factors, but, in the long run, it will always be a better option than sticking to window air units. The national average cost is between $4,500 and $6,200, but it could be much higher (or lower) depending on your individual situation. Here are a few factors that will affect the overall cost of your installation project: