Select the title of any safe type to learn more about it. Burglary Safe. A burglary safe is a free standing safe that is bolted to the floor. The safe is made of steel thick enough to withstand prolonged attacks from both unskilled and skilled criminals. Free standing safes are the most popular type of safe sold. Pros – Easy to install. When properly anchored, provides very good protection from attacks. Can be placed in conveniently accessible locations.
From simple home safes used to keep personal documents, to bank safes which include special building construction and security measures. All safes are sturdy constructions made of metal (most with different layers) and a removable part (or door) secured by a lock. Vault Walls: They are made of a mid-layer of strong material sandwiched by two layers of mild steel. In some vaults, glass panels are inserted to trigger relockers if they brake. Vault Doors: They are heavy doors (many tons) formed by many layers of steel and other barrier materials optimized to resist forced entry.
Most safes contain three primary layers of protective metal: 1  The outer mild steel skin. 2  A hard plate barrier material to protect the lock. 3  A mild steel layer to which the lock is affixed. Vault Walls: They are made of a mid-layer of strong material sandwiched by two layers of mild steel. In some vaults, glass panels are inserted to trigger relockers if they brake. Vault Doors: They are heavy doors (many tons) formed by many layers of steel and other barrier materials optimized to resist forced entry.
One significant distinction between types of safes is whether the safe is secured to a wall or structure or if it can be moved around. A less secure version (only suitable for petty cash) is usually called a cash-box. For fire resistant safes the EN 1047-1 (fire resistance standard similar to the fire resistance safe standard of UL) and EN 15659 (for light fire storage units) were published.
The body and door may be cast from metal (such as steel) or formed out of plastic through blow molding. Bank teller safes typically are secured to the counter, have a slit opening for dropping valuables into the safe without opening it, and a time-delay combination lock to foil robbers. For fire resistant safes the EN 1047-1 (fire resistance standard similar to the fire resistance safe standard of UL) and EN 15659 (for light fire storage units) were published.
For example, 18/8 stainless steel is comprised of 18% chromium and 8% nickel. 304 grade stainless steel is also comprised of no more than 0.8% carbon and at least 50% iron. The chromium binds oxygen to the surface of the product to protect the iron from oxidation (rust). Nickel also enhances the corrosion resistance of stainless ste
Burglary Safes (Burglar Fire Safes). A burglary safe is more secure than the simple fire safe. They are heavier, and in the “safe world” heavy almost always equates to “more secure”. Steel is heavy and well built safes are made of steel! Burglary safes are usually concealed in some manner. The three main burglary type home safes are the stand alone safe, wall safe and the floor safe. Most of these safes are fireproof, not just fire resistant. It’s always good practice to check the fire rating before buying.
Mercantile safes must be equipped with at least one combination-lock, and be fire and burglar resistive. The doors are made of steel (at least 1″ thick) and the box is also made of steel (at least 1/2″ thick). Banks and other institutions allow customers to deposit money after hours through night safes. Vault Walls: They are made of a mid-layer of strong material sandwiched by two layers of mild steel. In some vaults, glass panels are inserted to trigger relockers if they brake. Vault Doors: They are heavy doors (many tons) formed by many layers of steel and other barrier materials optimized to resist forced entry.
Door construction is also very important. Look for a gun safe with at least ¼” of solid plate steel or composite equivalent in the door. More secure gun safes have a 3/8 to 1/2″ steel plate in the door. Look for gun safes with the Underwriter Laboratory burglar ratings of a RSC (Residential Security Container). Fire Resistant safes and burglar fire safes should have a minimum of a 1 hour fire rating. Typically, a safe with less than a 1 hour fire rating will not provide adequate protection for paper or money in the event of a fire.