Bacteria in Urine. The kidneys perform the important function of filtering the blood and this process leads to the formation of the waste product, i.e. urine. The important minerals and nutrients are retained by the kidneys in the blood, and the unwanted, waste materials are filtered out. An individual who is affected by the presence of an excessive number of bacteria in the urinary tract but does not experience any symptoms is said to be affected by the asymptomatic form of bacteria in urine. This type of bacterial infection in urine is not serious in nature.
Guide. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile-it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. A urine sample is kept under conditions that allow bacteria and other organisms to grow. If few or no organisms grow, the test is negative. If organisms grow in numbers large enough to indicate an infection, the culture is positive
1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 4  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it. 1 Infection of the urethra (urethritis). 2  This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 3  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis. 4  Symptoms.
Urine, similar to other fluids in the body, is normally sterile without any bacterial infection. Therefore, the presence of bacteria in the urine is considered abnormal and may lead to urinary tract infection. Typically, bacteria gain access to the urinary system from outside through the urethra (the drainage tube for urine from the bladder). 
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 1 Infection of the urethra (urethritis). 2  This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 3  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis. 4  Symptoms.
Urine generally tends to have a sterile nature. However, bacteria may occasionally pass onto different areas of the urinary tract. This may result in multiplication of bacteria. When the growth of bacteria is found in a sample of urine, then the affected individual is diagnosed with a condition called bacteriuria. An individual who is affected by the presence of an excessive number of bacteria in the urinary tract but does not experience any symptoms is said to be affected by the asymptomatic form of bacteria in urine. This type of bacterial infection in urine is not serious in nature.
Bacteria in urine may cause some symptoms or it may be asymptomatic. An individual who is affected by the presence of an excessive number of bacteria in the urinary tract but does not experience any symptoms is said to be affected by the asymptomatic form of bacteria in urine. This type of bacterial infection in urine is not serious in nature.
In hematuria, your kidneys — or other parts of your urinary tract — allow blood cells to leak into urine. A number of problems can cause this leakage, including: Urinary tract infections. Urinary tract infections often occur when bacteria enter your body through the urethra and begin to multiply in your bladder. Symptoms can include a persistent urge to urinate, pain and burning with urination, and extremely strong-smelling urine.
Bacteria in Urine – Test. When a urine sample is detected with different types or species of bacteria, then it is possible that the sample is probably contaminated. In such a scenario, a new sample of urine would be needed for a fresh diagnosis to detect the presence of bacteria in urine. An individual who is affected by the presence of an excessive number of bacteria in the urinary tract but does not experience any symptoms is said to be affected by the asymptomatic form of bacteria in urine. This type of bacterial infection in urine is not serious in nature.