Fri Jan 30, 2015 5:16pm EST. (Reuters Health) – Overweight children are just as likely as thin children to have celiac disease, a new study confirms. It's a common misconception-even among many doctors-that celiac disease is limited to people who are underweight. 
Although you say that doctor's don't suspect celiac disease in overweight patients because of 'popular beliefs (not to mention outdated medical training)' your website reinforces those beliefs on the symptoms page (which is the first, and sometimes only, page most people look at. The increase in weight of already overweight patients after dietary gluten exclusion is a potential cause of morbidity, and the gluten-free diet as conventionally prescribed needs to be modified accordingly. As always, Celiac.com welcomes your comments (see below).
If you have celiac disease, you can't eat any foods that contain gluten (including wheat, rye, barley, and oats). Dropping gluten from your diet usually improves the condition within a few days and eventually ends the symptoms of the disease. In most cases, the villi are healed within six months. You'll have to remain on this diet for the rest of your life; eating any gluten at all can damage the intestine and restart the problem. Some people with celiac disease have so much damage to their intestines that a gluten-free diet will not help them.
About Celiac Disease. Celiac disease is a digestive disease that damages the small intestine and interferes with absorption of nutrients from food. People who have celiac disease cannot tolerate gluten, a protein in wheat, rye, and barley. When people with celiac disease eat foods or use products containing gluten, their immune system responds by damaging or destroying villi—the tiny, fingerlike protrusions lining the small intestine.
Conclusions: Few celiac patients are underweight at diagnosis and a large minority is overweight; these are less likely to present with classical features of diarrhea and reduced hemoglobin. Failed or delayed diagnosis of celiac disease may reflect lack of awareness of this large subgroup. The increase in weight of already overweight patients after dietary gluten exclusion is a potential cause of morbidity, and the gluten-free diet as conventionally prescribed needs to be modified accordingly. As always, Celiac.com welcomes your comments (see below).
Celiac disease could be a ONE cause to obesity, but basically, people become obese because of lack of proper nutrition and exercise. I have celiac disease and I am not the skinniest person around. Even on a gluten-free diet, lots of packaged foods are processed and contain high sodium and sugars. I too am overweight and tested negative for celiac disease. However, my Mom and all her sisters have different autoimmune disease ranging from diabetes to lupus and my Mom has IBS, which I think is really celiac but she won't listen to me. My first cousin is celiac and so is her daughter.
October 9, 2012 · Filed Under Obesity and Celiac Disease. People with undiagnosed celiac disease can be overweight or obese. Unfortunately, many doctors are not aware of this fact and may discourage their patients from getting the celiac tests if they are overweight. These doctors believe that people must be thin or emaciated to have this autoimmune disease. This lack of awareness can delay diagnosis and increases the risk of complications
If you have celiac disease, you can't eat any foods that contain gluten (including wheat, rye, barley, and oats). Dropping gluten from your diet usually improves the condition within a few days and eventually ends the symptoms of the disease. In most cases, the villi are healed within six months. You'll have to remain on this diet for the rest of your life; eating any gluten at all can damage your intestine and restart the problem. Some people with celiac disease have so much damage to their intestines that a gluten-free diet will not help them.
Perhaps It’s Celiac Disease” she highlights how people with celiac disease are not always thin. As well, Sonia mentions a study, “High Prevalence of Overweight and Obese Adult Celiac Patients in the Midwestern United States” that gives evidence that people don’t have to be slim or emaciated to have celiac disease. Unfortunately, many doctors are not aware of this fact and may discourage their patients from getting the celiac tests if they are overweight. These doctors believe that people must be thin or emaciated to have this autoimmune disease.