Dose-dense induction therapy with combined weekly paclitaxel (at a dose of 90 mg/m 2) and weekly carboplatin [at an area under the curve (AUC) of 4 mg·ml/min] followed by 3-weekly paclitaxel/carboplatin was very effective in platinum-resistant patients (response 58%, progression-free survival 10 months). The JGOG 3016 study is the only dose-dense study with such a significant survival benefit. It is also the only dose-intensity study performed in Asian patients. Genotypes and phenotypes are thought to represent important determinants of drug efficacy in ovarian cancer.
Tumor cytoreduction with standard-dose, dose-escalated, and dose-dense chemotherapy. Dose escalation is achieved by administering greater doses of chemotherapy with the same cycle length, and dose density is achieved by administering standard doses in shorter cycles. Dose Intensification-Definition, Rationale, and Therapeutic Strategies. Dose intensity (DI) is a measure of the amount of drug delivered per unit of time, generally expressed as mg/m 2 /wk. Relative dose intensity (RDI) is the ratio of the delivered dose of a single drug (or of several drugs in a combination chemotherapy regimen) and the planned dose of the drug. It is calculated by dividing the DI of the administered regimen by the DI of the drug in the standard regimen
Based on prior clinical trials, we tested sequential dose-dense therapy with high-dose doxorubicin, followed first by paclitaxel and then by cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) for high-risk operable breast cancer. ABSTRACT: The recognition of paclitaxel's (Taxol's) activity and non-cross-resistance with doxorubicin (Adriamycin) in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer has motivated study of the agent in the adjuvant setting.
The concept of dose-dense chemotherapy is based on the hypothesis that maximal chemotherapy effectiveness can be achieved by scheduling the interval of chemotherapy to correspond to the period of most rapid tumor growth. Dose-dense strategies have been associated with a modest impact on disease recurrence and overall survival of patients with early-stage breast cancer. Subset analyses suggest increased benefits for specific tumor subtypes such as hormone receptor-negative, highly proliferative or HER2 overexpressing tumors.
By Clifford A. Hudis, MD. ABSTRACT: The use of dose-dense therapy is one approach to overcoming the “resistance” of malignant cells to adjuvant therapy caused by inadequate drug exposure. In this approach, active drugs are delivered sequentially at their “ideal” dose level separated by short intertreatment intervals. This approach is termed dose-dense therapy because dose intensification is achieved not necessarily or solely through the use of dramatic dose escalation, but rather by means of rapidly recycled treatments.[10]. Clinical Trials.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Dose density is a relative term referring to the administration frequency of chemotherapy drugs and regimens compared with standard regimens. Dose-dense strategies have been associated with a modest impact on disease recurrence and overall survival of patients with early-stage breast cancer. Subset analyses suggest increased benefits for specific tumor subtypes such as hormone receptor-negative, highly proliferative or HER2 overexpressing tumors.
They demonstrate that using hematopoietic growth factor support has made dose-dense therapy safe and feasible. Dose-dense strategies have been associated with a modest impact on disease recurrence and overall survival of patients with early-stage breast cancer. Subset analyses suggest increased benefits for specific tumor subtypes such as hormone receptor-negative, highly proliferative or HER2 overexpressing tumors.
SUMMARY: Trials in unselected patients with early-stage breast cancer have demonstrated promising results for dose-dense chemotherapy. Further studies are needed to define the optimal regimen and the patient population that will receive the greatest benefit from this therapy. Dose-dense strategies have been associated with a modest impact on disease recurrence and overall survival of patients with early-stage breast cancer. Subset analyses suggest increased benefits for specific tumor subtypes such as hormone receptor-negative, highly proliferative or HER2 overexpressing tumors.
1 Whole-breast radiation dose. 2  Conventional whole-breast radiation therapy is delivered to the whole breast (with or without regional lymph nodes) in 1.8 Gy to 2 Gy daily fractions over about 5 to 6 weeks to a total dose of 45 Gy to 50 Gy. 