The graph shows the number of Toyota employees from the fiscal year of 2012 to the fiscal year of 2015. Toyota employed some 333,500 people in the fiscal year of 2013. The Toyota Motor Corporation ranks among the largest automobile manufacturers in the world. 
Toyota declined to detail its plans. About 5,300 people work at Toyota's Torrance complex. It is unclear how many workers will be asked to move to Texas. The move is expected to take several years. Last year, Toyota sold more than 2.2 million vehicles in the U.S. The U.S. branch picked Los Angeles for its first headquarters because of proximity to the port complex — where it imported cars — and easy airline access to Tokyo.
As of July 2014, Toyota was the largest listed company in Japan by market capitalization (worth more than twice as much as #2-ranked SoftBank) and by revenue. The company was founded by Kiichiro Toyoda in 1937 as a spinoff from his father's company Toyota Industries to create automobiles. Toyota is headquartered in Toyota City, Aichi. The main headquarters of Toyota is located in a four-story building in Toyota. As of 2006 the head office has the Toyopet Toyota logo and the words Toyota Motor.
Three years earlier, in 1934, while still a department of Toyota Industries, it created its first product, the Type A engine, and, in 1936, its first passenger car, the Toyota AA. Toyota Motor Corporation produces vehicles under 5 brands, including the Toyota brand, Hino, Lexus, Ranz, and Scion. Toyota is headquartered in Toyota City, Aichi. The main headquarters of Toyota is located in a four-story building in Toyota. As of 2006 the head office has the Toyopet Toyota logo and the words Toyota Motor.
Toyota employs approximately 317,716 people worldwide (on a consolidated basis). Toyota leads the automobile industry in environmental technologies with the success of the hybrid technology in the Prius and Camry Hybrid. After over 50 years in Australia, Toyota has grown to be one of Australia's leading automotive companies.
Company. After over 50 years in Australia, Toyota has grown to be one of Australia's leading automotive companies. Toyota Australia is a leading manufacturer, distributor and exporter of vehicles, with a market share of 18 percent as at the end of the 2011 calendar year
As of January 28, 2010, Toyota had announced recalls of approximately 5.2 million vehicles for the pedal entrapment/floor mat problem, and an additional 2.3 million vehicles for the accelerator pedal problem. Approximately 1.7 million vehicles are subject to both. 
Toyota was the largest automobile manufacturer in 2012 (by production) ahead of the Volkswagen Group and General Motors. In July of that year, the company reported the production of its 200-millionth vehicle. Toyota is the world's first automobile manufacturer to produce more than 10 million vehicles per year. It did so in 2012 according to OICA, and in 2013 according to company data. Toyota is headquartered in Toyota City, Aichi. The main headquarters of Toyota is located in a four-story building in Toyota. As of 2006 the head office has the Toyopet Toyota logo and the words Toyota Motor.
Worldwide Operations. As of the end of Dec. 2014, Toyota conducts its business worldwide with 54 overseas manufacturing companies in 28 countries and regions. Toyota's vehicles are sold in more than 170 countries and regions. Toyota vehicle production results are as of December 2014; only includes vehicles (excludes KD and OEM production) for which production exceed 1,000 units.