The most common CFTR mutation is a deletion of just three DNA nucleotides, which leads to the deletion of an amino acid (phenylalanine) at position 508 of the protein sequence. This is denoted as δF508, and is found in around 90% of CF patients. Located on human chromosome 7, the CFTR gene is made up of 250,000 DNA nucleotides. CFTR stands for Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator. The CFTR protein functions as a channel for the movement of chloride ions in and out of cells, which is important for the salt and water balance on epithelial surfaces, such as in the lungs or pancrea
CF is caused by a mutation in the gene cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). The most common mutation, δF508, is a deletion (δ signifying deletion) of three nucleotides that results in a loss of the amino acid phenylalanine (F) at the 508th position on the protein. Different people may have different degrees of symptoms. CF is an autosomal recessive disorder. It is caused by the presence of mutations in both copies of the gene for the protein cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Those with a single working copy are carriers and otherwise mostly normal.
The most common mutation (seen in approx. 70% of cystic fibrosis patients) that causes the disease is known as Delta F508. It affects the functions of a gene found in chromosome 7 called Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator (CFTR) by displacing it from its normal location on the chromosome.
At other times, the change in a gene may cause the protein to not work or not be made at all. Cystic fibrosis is caused by mutations in the gene that produces the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein. This protein is responsible for regulating the flow of salt and fluids in and out of the cells in different parts of the body. 
A gene on chromosome 7 is responsible for the normal production of a protein called cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR). Mutations (defects at the DNA level) in this gene lead to absent or defective CFTR production, causing CF. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a relatively common genetic disease caused by mutations in a gene located on chromosome 7. Every cell in the body (except sperm in men and egg cells, oocytes, in females) has 46 chromosomes, or 23 pairs of chromosomes, one half inherited from the mother and the other half from the father.
Chronic rhinosinusitis is a consistent feature of the autosomal recessive disorder cystic fibrosis (CF). OBJECTIVE: To determine whether mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) gene, which is responsible for CF, predispose to CRS. Mutation in the gene responsible for cystic fibrosis and predisposition to chronic rhinosinusitis in the general population. Wang X(1), Moylan B, Leopold DA, Kim J, Rubenstein RC, Togias A, Proud D, Zeitlin PL, Cutting GR.
Chronic rhinosinusitis is a consistent feature of the autosomal recessive disorder cystic fibrosis (CF). Objective To determine whether mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) gene, which is responsible for CF, predispose to CRS. Mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) gene cause CF and a separate autosomal recessive disorder of male infertility called congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD).