Benadryl is an effective medication for allergies and other conditions; most veterinarians allow its use in canines. So, can you give a dog Benadryl, the answer is that generally speaking, yes, there should be no problem in administering Benadryl to your dog. The general guideline for how much Benadryl can I give my dog is 1mg of Benadryl (diphenhydramine) for each pound of body weight, 3 times per day (which means every 8 hrs).
You can give your dog benedryl and Hartz makes an anti itch Hydrocortisone spray with aloe to spray on them. If you have a big dog over 75 pounds you can give them to tablets of benedryl. My dog takes it all the time for her allergies. If the vet recomends it give him benedryl, the dosage depends on the dogs weight. check with your vet. You can also sometimes ease your dogs alergies by taking a warm damp cloth to his face and neck 2 to 3 times a day. Source(s): I have six dogs of my own 2 of them have alergies. rayburnlarry · 10 years ago.
Yes, your dog can be treated with allergy medication, but not decongestants. You should talk to your vet about allergy tests, allergy shots and the dosage of medication. All dogs are different and when it comes to medication (just like with people). What saves one dog can kill another. Cats and dogs can and do take claritin for allergies but it is still best to talk to a vet first to determine the best dosage for your pet and possible interactions your vet might know about concerning your particular animal.
The symptoms of dog allergies are usually like those of any other nasal allergy. They include: 1  coughing and wheezing. 2  red, itchy eyes. 3  runny, itchy, stuffy nose. 4  sneezing. Instead, people are usually allergic to the dander -- flakes of dead skin -- as well as the saliva and urine. So, no matter how long or short the hair, any dog can potentially cause an allergic reaction. You might wonder why dog dander has such an effect on you. People with allergies have oversensitive immune systems
Labels: benadryl, can I give my dog Benadryl, can you give a dog Benadryl, dog allergies, dog allergy, dog medication, how much Benadryl can I give my dog, is Benadryl safe for dogs. The general guideline for how much Benadryl can I give my dog is 1mg of Benadryl (diphenhydramine) for each pound of body weight, 3 times per day (which means every 8 hrs).
Best Answer: I suggest if you are looking for permanent relief of your dog's symptoms you should go see a veterinary dermatologist so you can find the cause of your dog's allergies. Benadryl and Claritin will only provide very temporary relief of his signs and you dog will remain uncomfortable. If the vet recomends it give him benedryl, the dosage depends on the dogs weight. check with your vet. You can also sometimes ease your dogs alergies by taking a warm damp cloth to his face and neck 2 to 3 times a day. Source(s): I have six dogs of my own 2 of them have alergies. rayburnlarry · 10 years ago.
Dog allergies can be treated with standard allergy drugs. Your doctor might recommend: 1  Antihistamines, which block the effects of a chemical that triggers dog allergy symptoms; they're sold over the counter -- like Allegra, Claritin, Benadryl, or Zyrtec -- or by prescription. Allergy shots are another option for people with dog allergies. They don't work for everyone, and a full course of treatment can take years. But they can really help some people with pet allergies. Talk about the pros and cons with your doctor.
But there are other questions you should ask your vet: how much Benadryl can I give my dog, and is Benadryl safe for dogs. The general guideline for how much Benadryl can I give my dog is 1mg of Benadryl (diphenhydramine) for each pound of body weight, 3 times per day (which means every 8 hrs). As an example, a 20 lb dog could be given 20 mg of Benadryl 3 times per day
Your dog can take Benadryl once they have started to get allergies, but if they are capable to tolerate the allergy, then it is advisable that you don’t let them take Benadryl right away. 0 Can Dogs Have Benadryl. If you’re like most dog lovers you want to make sure your canine is cared for properly if they’re in need of medical attention. Our first piece of advice here at benadryl for dogs is to always check with your vet before administering care at home.