The scientific name for gonorrhea is gonococcus. Neisseria gonorrheae is the scientific name, its caused by a virus called
The genus is the first part of a scientific name. Note that the genus is always capitalised. An example: Lemur catta is the scientific name of the Ringtailed lemur and Lemur … is the genus. Another example: Sphyrna zygaena is the scientific name of one species of Hammerhead shark and Sphyrna
Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) that can infect both men and women. It can cause infections in the genitals, rectum, and throat. It is a very common infection, especially among young people ages 15-24 years.
Men: Genital itching, painful urination, painful or swollen testicles, discharge from the penis, inflamed rectum, sore and red throat, inflamed eyelids.5. Women: Inflamed rectum, painful urination, vaginal discharge, back and abdominal pain, painful intercourse, bleeding between cycles, nausea or fever.5.
Gonorrhea, also known as gonnococcal infection, gonococcal urethritis, gonorrhoea and the clap, is a sexually transmitted infection that is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The usual symptoms in men are a burning sensation with urination and discharge from the penis.
Gonorrhea: A bacterial infection that is transmitted by sexual contact. Gonorrhea is one of the oldest known sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), and it is caused by the Neisseria gonorrhoeae bacteria. Men with gonorrhea may have a yellowish discharge from the penis accompanied by itching and burning.
Gonorrhea is generally passed through sexual contact of an infected penis or vagina, although it can be passed anally or by mouth. Gonorrhea is a bacterium that grows in warm moist areas of the body, such as the vagina, and reproductive tract of a female (cervix, uterus, fallopian tubes).
Men have symptoms of burning during urination, white/yellow/green discharge from the penis, or swollen testicles. Women and men can suffer from discharge of the anus, itching, soreness, bleeding, and painful bowel movements. Also, Gonorrhea can get into the throat and cause a sore throat, but usually is asymptomatic.