By definition, organelles are the membrane-bound structures in a cell. The nucleus is an example. Other organelles are located in the cytoplasm such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, peroxisomes, lysosomes, vacuoles and glyoxisomes. An eukaryotic cell contains many mitochondria, occupying up to a quarter of the cytoplasmic volume
1 The cytoplasm is the place where the cell expands and growth of the cell takes place. 2  The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 3  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement. 4  It also aids in the movement of the different cellular elements. Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred.
1 The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 2  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement. 3  It also aids in the movement of the different cellular elements. Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred.
This organelle has two major functions: it stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include growth, intermediary metabolism, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. 
Based on their function, cells are categorized into different types of cells, the somatic cells and the reproductive cells. Each cell has a nucleus and a jellylike watery substance that is 80% water that occupies the remaining part of the cell. This is called Cytoplasm. The cytoplasm holds different parts of the cell's organelles together. Cytoplasm was first discovered first in 1835 but the discovery is not credited to a single person as many biologists and researchers have contributed to the knowledge on Cytoplasm.
Cytoplasm can be divided into: Cytosol, organelles and cytoplasmic inclusions. Cytosol is a gelatinous material and most of the space in cytoplasm when an organelle is not present. Cytosol comprises of salt, water, cytoskeleton filaments and organic molecules. The cytoplasm holds different parts of the cell's organelles together. Cytoplasm was first discovered first in 1835 but the discovery is not credited to a single person as many biologists and researchers have contributed to the knowledge on Cytoplasm.
The cytoplasm has cell components like endoplasmic reticulum, lysomes, mitochondria and Golgi apparatus. In the plant cells chloroplasts too are found in the organelles of cytoplasm which has a periphery surrounded by fatty membrane. The cytoplasm holds different parts of the cell's organelles together. Cytoplasm was first discovered first in 1835 but the discovery is not credited to a single person as many biologists and researchers have contributed to the knowledge on Cytoplasm.
Cell Shape. Because of its cytosol, the cytoplasm gives the cell volume. Without cytosol, a cell would be a flat and empty membrane. This is also due to the cytoskeleton, a component of the cell structure inside the cytoplasm made up of cytoplasmic filaments that hold the cell’s shape together. With the cytosol liquid and the cytoskeleton together, a cell has shape.
The Cytoplasm is the gel-like substance that fills the cell outside the nucleus. All of the cell's organelles are held and located within the cytoplasm. There are many different chemicals, nucleic acids, and other substances that the cell needs can be found there also. It supports the cell and gives it shape. The nucleus is one of the most important organelles in a cell. It is often the largest organelle in animal cells, but this is not always the case. Nuclei contain the genetic material called DNA that is responsible for controlling and directing all cell activities.
The cytoplasm of the animal cell is a gel-like material made of water. It fills the cells and contains proteins and important molecules that are necessary for the cell. The cytoplasm is made of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, amino acids and nucleotides. Cytoplasm holds all the cellular organelles. Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred.